r later she would have to accept the reality of her position and sue for peace.” 138 Until July 1940, therefore, the German strategy to defeat England was based on blockade (but not a starvation blockade), and German bombing in the early summer of 1940 concentrated on ports, military installations, and coastal shipping. Later, after Hitler ordered preparations for an invasion of Great Britain (Operation Sea Lion) on July 11, the Luftwaffe attempted to destroy the British fighter force to gain air superiority over the English Channel and southern England. The initial stages of this battle proved enormously costly to the Luftwaffe, which—in a last ditch effort to destroy RAF Fighter Command—pressed for massive attacks on London, heretofore prohibited by Hitler. Hitler vacated his ban on London in early September owing to British strikes on Berlin (probably calculated to relieve the pressure on RAF Fighter Command by provoking the Germans to retaliate with city bomb-ing), and the Luftwaffe opened a new phase of the attack by launching large bomber raids against targets in London. 139 British fighters savaged these strikes, however, forcing the Luftwaffe to abandon daytime operations and continue its offensive against Britain at night. Hitler’s Beliefs and Luftwaffe Capabilities Hitler’s war directives and his conduct of the war up to the summer of 1940 indicated his inclination to limit the impact of the air war on civilians. As already indicated, the Luftwaffe lacked the ability and doctrine to pros-ecute extended campaigns of punishment bombing. Moreover, Hitler con-sciously limited German air strikes on cities in order to protect Germany from counterstrikes. “The German restraints in the campaign through the Low Countries and France,” argues George Quester, “had demonstrated a continuing desire to impress distinctions on the Allies which would prevent a heavy assault on German cities.” Hitler further hoped to convince Britain to make peace after the fall of France a