for example, often used hunger and starva-tion as a weapon to induce their victims to surrender, as the Romans did at Jerusalem in AD 72. 27 During the deadly winter of 1941– 42 in German- besieged Leningrad, “The city was filled with corpses. They lay by the thousands on the streets, in the ice, in the snowdrifts, in the courtyards and cellars of the great apartment houses.” As one woman wrote in her diary that cold winter, “Today it is so simple to die. . . . You just begin to lose interest, then you lie on the bed and you never again get up.”28 Naval blockades can also be employed in a similar fashion. A member of the  British Admiralty before the First World War, for example, “held that (in a protracted war) the mills of our sea-power (though they would grind the German industrial population slowly perhaps) would grind them ‘exceed-ingly small’—grass would sooner or later grow in the streets of Hamburg and wide-spread dearth and ruin would be inflicted.” 29 In a lesser-known EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 8 --- Targeting Civilians in War [20]conflict that  occurred during World War I, Italy prevailed on its Triple En- tente allies to help it institute a blockade of northern Libya aimed at the rebellious Sanusi sect. According to Rachel Simon, “This economic pres-sure—the starving of the  population—was used to win specific political goals: the surrender of the rebels and the imposition of a new leadership.”30 Similarly, during the  Nigerian Civil War (1967– 70 ), one government com- mander told journalists that “I want to prevent even one Ibo having even one piece to eat before their capitulation.”31 Hunger and starvation of civilians may also result from systematic devas- tation of the environment. According to Vegetius, devastation of an adver-sary’s land dominated the conduct of war in medieval Europe: “The main and princi