s regime was remarkably cost-sensitive, possibly because of its reluctance to mobilize German society for modern war. The Führer and his Wehrmacht developed a strategy and force structure designed to win lightning victories so as not to cause much displacement to the civilian economy. The war in Russia showed how ill-suited this military system was for a protracted war. This way of waging war also explains why Hitler was so quick to retaliate against Britain for air strikes on Berlin, which he believed would bring the war home to the civil-ian population, exactly what he was trying to prevent. Organization Theory. Some scholars argue that German restraint in bomb- ing Britain is explained by the “culture of land power” in Germany’s armed forces and the Luftwaffe’s orientation toward supporting the operations of the army rather than undertaking independent strategic operations. The EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 68 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [153]culture of land power also shaped the Luftwaffe’s capabilities, encouraging the development of medium and dive bombers but discouraging pursuit of a heavy bomber. 182 As a result, the Luftwaffe never acquired a four-engine bomber on par with the British Lancaster or the American B-17 or B-29. In sum, according to this view, “The Luftwaffe, like the army that fathered it, relied on furthering the land campaign and viewed the defeat of enemy forces, not the destruction of civilian morale, as the key to victory.” 183 The Luftwaffe’s organizational culture—along with Hitler’s skepticism of airpower and his preference for hitting military targets—helps explain the form the Blitz took, and the fact that it was not even worse. The argument, however, faces three anomalies. First, it maintains that the Luftwaffe’s cul-ture of ground support determined German restraint, but fails to ackn