t the United States on the defensive in early 1942. The loss of the Philippines also de- prived the United States of the ability to strike directly at the Japanese homeland in any meaningful way. 9 The dramatic U.S. victory at the Battle of Midway in June, however, during which four Japanese aircraft carriers were sunk, marked the high tide of Japanese eastward expansion and paved the way for the American counteroffensive. But U.S. forces still faced a tough fight against a fanatical foe to make their way across the Pacific. Indeed, the tenor of Japanese resistance in the Pacific from the very begin- ning indicated that an attack on the Japanese home islands might be a dif-ficult and costly proposition. On island after island, Japanese troops simply refused to surrender. On Guadalcanal in August 1942, for example, Japa- nese troops fought nearly to the last man: of one unit’s eight hundred men, only fifteen were captured, twelve of whom were wounded. At Tarawa in the Gilbert Islands in November 1943, American troops on one island took eight Japanese prisoners out of a defending force of 2,571, a death rate of 99.7 percent. In the Marshall Islands in early 1944, the death rate on Kwa- jalein Island was 98.4 percent, while on Roi-Namur it was 98.5 percent. 10 As one marine commander described the combat on Guadalcanal, “I have never heard or read of this kind of fighting. These people refuse to surren-der. The wounded wait until men come up to examine them . . . and blow themselves and the other fellow to pieces with a hand grenade.” 11 The bloodletting continued in the Marianas in the summer of 1944 (see table 4.3). On Saipan, for example, 97 percent of the thirty thousand Japa- nese personnel died. Hundreds of Japanese civilians also chose death to American capture: convinced that “the Americans would rape, torture, and EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_s