ntire population of certain islands—into camps where many died owing to sickness and disease. 36 According to one American congressman who visited the Philippines, “You never hear of any disturbances in Northern Luzon . . . because there isn’t anybody there to rebel. . . . The good Lord in heaven only knows the number of Filipinos that were put under ground.” 37 High mortality rates similarly followed Britain’s incarceration of Boer and African women and children in South Africa (1899–1902) and Spain’s con-centration of Cuba’s rural population (1895–98). Evicting people entirely from their homes and forcing them to travel long distances also commonly generate significant fatalities, a process made worse by the violence that is often needed to compel people to abandon EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 9 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [21]their dwellings. As many as eight thousand Cherokee Indians died along the Trail of Tears in the late 1830s after being forced by the U.S. govern- ment to leave their homes in Georgia.38 According to a veteran of this expul- sion, “I fought through the civil war and have seen men shot to pieces and slaughtered by thousands, but the Cherokee removal was the cruelest work I ever knew.” 39 Turkey’s removal of its Armenian population from Eastern Anatolia during World War I caused substantial mortality even without the attendant massacres and brutality. 40 In the Second Balkan War in 1913, the Greek Army burned at least 161 villages and massacred thousands in a “war of devastation” to ensure that “no Bulgarian subjects” remained in Greek-controlled territory. 41 In short, civilian victimization is a government-sanctioned policy in war- time that targets enemy civilians intentionally or fails to discriminate be-tween combatants and noncombatants. Belligerents need not put a gun to thei