rg in July 1943, Michael Sherry writes that “the conflagration that swept Tokyo was rapaciously expansive, a pillar of fire that was pushed over by the surface winds to touch the ground and gain new fury from the oxygen and combustibles it seized. LeMay had chanced upon just the right use of incendiaries, and the wind served as a giant bellows to superheat the air to eighteen hundred degrees Fahren-heit.” Many people seeking refuge from the fires headed to the city’s rivers and canals, only to be burned or boiled to death. According to an eyewit-ness, “In the black Sumida River . . . countless bodies were floating, clothed bodies, naked bodies, all as black as charcoal. It was unreal. These were dead people, but you couldn’t tell whether they were men or women. You couldn’t even tell if the objects floating by were arms and legs or pieces of burnt wood.” Five of the city’s thirty-five wards were listed as mostly de-stroyed, seven were about half destroyed, and another fourteen were partly wiped out. Eighty-two percent of the ten square mile target area was lev-eled, and almost sixteen square miles of eastern Tokyo was razed to the ground. Nearly eighty-eight thousand died and more than 1 million were left homeless and fled the city. During the raid, “B-29 crews fought super-heated updrafts that destroyed at least ten aircraft and wore oxygen masks to avoid vomiting from the stench of burning flesh.” The glow from the fires was visible a hundred miles out to sea. 3 But this was only the beginning. Following the success of Operation Meetinghouse, Twenty-first Bomber Command went on a ten-day fire blitz against Nagoya (twice), Osaka, and Kobe, stopping only when the  raiders EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 32 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [117]expended their entire stock of incendiaries. The details of these attacks may be fo