n civilian population to reduce his country’s military losses. 178 Hitler did indeed send his bombers to London, but Churchill’s provocation only quickened a deci-sion that probably would have come sooner or later anyway owing to rising losses and Luftwaffe preferences. 179 Göring and his generals were already pressing for a decisive move against London to destroy the RAF indepen-dently of the pinprick Bomber Command raids on Berlin, and later hoped to knock Britain out of the war with airpower alone. Reprisal was undoubt-edly a motive for sending the Luftwaffe’s bombers against the  British capi- tal, but they would have gotten there eventually even without the attacks on Berlin. Having failed to force Britain to come to terms with blockade, and with invasion rendered impossible by the failure to win air superiority, Hitler chose to continue the war against “perfidious Albion” with the only means at his disposal that was not prohibitively costly: night bombing. This is the conclusion reached by R. J. Overy: Thus when Göring turned the bombers against London in the Battle of Britain and the Blitz, it was not just out of the desire for reprisals against British raids on Germany, but because it was now hoped that, everything else having failed, Terrorangriffe would bring the British to their senses. The attacks were also combined with instructions to attack “the armaments in-dustry (particularly air armament). The important harbours. London will be EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 67 --- Targeting Civilians in War [152] attacked constantly night and day in order to destroy the city.” The Blitz was an extension of this strategic aim, and was forced on the Luftwaffe because of the high combat attrition suffered through daylight raids. Thus gradually during the course of the Battle of Britain the German leadership began to move more tow