ough Allied military planners remained sensitive to the moral issue of bombing civilians (and to the possibility that reliance on obliteration bomb-ing might provoke a public reaction detrimental to the postwar development of the air forces), no sustained protest ever materialized. The Allied air raids were widely accepted as just retribution as well as sound strategic policy, and the few critics who raised ethical and humanitarian questions about the heavy bombing of German cities were usually denounced as hopeless idealists, fools, or traitors. When Tokyo was incinerated, there was scarcely a murmur of protest on the home front. . . . Japan had merely reaped what it sowed. 86 The American public overwhelmingly approved of firebombing on Jap- anese cities. In the immediate aftermath of Pearl Harbor, an opinion poll showed that 67 percent favored aerial bombardment of Japanese cities. Undermining the argument that deterrence can prevent resort to civilian victimization, another survey found that of the 59 percent who believed the United States should fight an “all-out” war against Japan, 84 percent ap- proved of bombing Japanese cities even if it meant Axis retaliation against American cities. 87 An article in Harper’s magazine summarized the prevail- ing view: “It seems brutal to be talking about burning homes. But we are EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 52 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [137] engaged in a life and death struggle for national survival, and we are there- fore justified in taking any action which will save the lives of  American sol- diers and sailors.”88 In short, as Dower puts it, “The overwhelming thrust of public opinion in the United Kingdom as well as the United States de- manded, if not the extermination of the Japanese people, then most certainly the country’s ‘thoroughgoing defeat,’ ” even if this me