aths. Massacres consist of “large-scale, face-to-face violence against civilians targeted as groups” and occur in a number of contexts. 21 Some massacres, as noted above, are generated by passions aroused in the heat of battle, but others are perpetrated as part of a strategy to decimate or intimi-date the population. The customs of siege warfare, for example, decreed that defenders and civilians in towns that refused to surrender could be massa-cred indiscriminately or sold into slavery after an assault captured the city. 22 The Wehrmacht made systematic use of massacres in combating the Greek insur gency during the German occupation of Greece from 1941 to 1944. In the Soviet Union, the Germans employed special killing units—known as Einsatzgruppen—to murder as many as 1.5 million Jews in 1941 and 1942. 23 Serbian irregulars also repeatedly massacred Bosnian Muslim civilians as these militias advanced acr oss eastern Bosnia in the spring of 1992.24 Intentional bombardment of civilians or indiscriminate bombing of non- combatant areas constitute the second mode of civilian victimization. In-discriminate bombardment with explosive projectiles intended to terrorize towns often accompanied siege warfare, and naval bombardment of port cities has also been used to frighten people on shore. 25 The successful launch of the winged, propeller-driven aircraft in 1903, however, ushered in the strategic bombing era, which became the dominant form of bombardment in the twentieth century beginning in World War I. Strategic bombing vic-timizes civilians when it has the avowed goal of causing civilian casualties either to undermine civilian morale or an adversary’s ability to fight. 26 Civilian victimization may also be a consequence of attempts to deprive an enemy of food. Besiegers, for example, often used hunger and starva-tion as a weapon to induce their victims to surrender, as the Romans did at Jerusalem in AD 72. 27 During the deadly winter of 1941– 42 in German- besieged Le