late British civilians, their bomb loads would have included a higher ratio of incendiary bombs. Furthermore, the Luftwaffe had developed means of de-livering bombs—such as Knickebein and X-Gerät—with decent accuracy. As Horst Boog argues, “Development of these navigation systems and automatic bomb-sights by the Luftwaffe would have made no sense had there been a decision to go for terror bombing of cities right from the beginning.” 126 In short, German bombers in the Blitz did not seek solely to kill civilians. The Luftwaffe hoped to demoralize the British population and support a policy of blockade (or possibly invasion in 1941) through the destruction of war pro- duction in British cities and concomitant civilian fatalities. Because the bomb-ing offensive had to proceed at night to avoid untenable losses, however, and owing to the inability at that time to avoid hitting noncombatants when a military target was located in an urban area, civilian losses were high. German Bombing Doctrine Unlike air doctrine in the United States and Great Britain, which tilted heavily toward strategic bombing, German air doctrine in the interwar EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 59 --- Targeting Civilians in War [144]years remained fairly balanced between tactical and strategic missions. German fliers saw their role first and foremost as winning and maintain-ing air superiority, then as providing indirect support to advancing ground forces by bombing targets behind enemy lines and interdicting the supply and deployment of enemy forces (a mixture of close air support and opera-tional interdiction missions), and finally as destroying the enemy’s centers of power, namely his armaments production capability (strategic interdic-tion). 127 As R. J. Overy remarks, “The German air force became committed to limited strategic bombing” within the confines of t