]an end to the Blitz. Substantial numbers of bombers had already been with- drawn to support the invasions of Greece and Yugoslavia, and with Opera-tion  Barbarossa looming, by late May only four groups of bombers (down from a high of forty-four) remained facing Britain. Historians agree that although the Luftwaffe did not target civilian neigh- borhoods specifically, the targets they did choose—“factories, docks, the government quarter of Whitehall, and the economic and financial centre of the City of London”—made it “inevitable that a large proportion of the population would be killed and their houses destroyed,” a development that Matthew Cooper argues German leaders “positively welcomed” “be-cause of the impact they hoped it would have upon the British people.” 122 According to Richard Overy, this target set exposed “the gradual abandon-ment of any pretence that civilians and civilian morale would not become targets.” 123 “It cannot be denied,” concludes Horst Boog, “that, in practice, the German air raids on Britain assumed an indiscriminate nature” judged by their results, “and that the terrorisation of the civilian population was accepted as a not unwelcome side-effect.” 124 Historians also agree that as bad as the destruction was in the winter of 1940– 41, it could have been worse. Luftwaffe bomb loads, for example, con- sisted of a relatively low proportion of incendiary bombs. Between Septem-ber 7, 1940, and May 10, 1941, Luftwaffe bombers dropped a total of 21,774 tons of bombs on London, only 2,633 tons (12 percent) of which were in- cendiaries. Against the whole of Britain in the same period, the Luftwaffe delivered 54,420 tons of bombs, with 7,920 tons (just under 15 percent) of this total consisting of firebombs. 125 If the Germans sought only to annihi- late British civilians, their bomb loads would have included a higher ratio of incendiary bombs. Furthermore, the Luftwaffe had developed means of de-livering bombs—such as Knickebein and X-Gerät—with