often both—seeks to establish a national state on all or part of the territory inhabited by another group. A national state with a substantial minority of “nonnation-als,” however, is unlikely to be secure or stable over time because this group poses a permanent threat of rebellion. As one Zionist leader commented in 1938, “We cannot start the Jewish state with . . . half the population being Arab. . . . Such a state cannot survive even half an hour.” 99 Moreover, leaving concentrations of enemy nationals intact behind the front lines risks leaving a fifth column that could take up arms and create a two-front war. After EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 24 --- Targeting Civilians in War [36]the Haganah (the main Jewish defense force) captured the town of Beisan in May 1948, for instance, Jewish officers—who viewed this concentration of Arab civilians so close to the front lines as a security threat—sought and received approval to expel them. 100 Believing that there is little or no possi- bility of gaining the support of members of the opposing group, belligerents in these situations attack the other group’s civilians to avoid the risk—if not always the actuality—of being attacked themselves. Expelling or killing civilians of the enemy group not only reduces the costs of the present fighting—by depriving their fighters of manpower and  materiel—but it also reduces the threat of future costs from an uprising or a rescue operation by the group’s coethnics from outside the state. The pres-ence of these civilians creates a standing invitation for their conationals in neighboring states to intervene to rescue them, as well as giving the territory’s former owner a claim to the land. In the first Balkan war (1912– 13), for ex- ample, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, and Greece invaded Ottoman territory with the explicit intention of seizing l