cks represented a safe EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 66 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [151]way of  proceeding with the war against Britain. . . . The Luftwaffe’s bombers, which by day were so vulnerable, had, in the autumn of 1940, little to fear by night.”176 Yet the decrease in aircraft losses was not a victory for the  Luftwaffe, as one historian notes: “Arguably the continued bombing campaign was ac- tually an admission of defeat, a desperate alternative to the direct, annihilat-ing contest with Fighter Command that, had the Luftwaffe emerged victori-ous, would have enabled it to rule the skies over England.” 177 Moreover, although Göring’s generals believed they were destroying Britain’s fighter force at a rapid pace, air superiority was not being gained quickly enough. Many Luftwaffe officers argued that only by attacking London could they force Fighter Command to commit its entire force where it could be destroyed. The first few weeks of the round-the-clock offensive versus London, therefore, supported the goal of knocking out the RAF. As is well known, of course, by turning the attack toward London, Göring pro-vided battered Fighter Command with a much-needed breather from the strikes on its bases, and is widely regarded as the key blunder that lost Germany the battle. Finally, there is the matter of the British raids on Berlin, which provoked Hitler into revoking the ban on bombing London. Most historians argue that Churchill ordered these missions hoping that Hitler would retaliate in kind against London, thus easing the pressure on a beleaguered Fighter Command—a rare example of a leader inviting strikes on his own civilian population to reduce his country’s military losses. 178 Hitler did indeed send his bombers to London, but Churchill’s provocation only quickened a deci-sion that probably would have come so