-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 20 --- Targeting Civilians in War [32]insurgents’ demands instead of continuing to prosecute a seemingly un- winnable war. The stronger forces, therefore, have an incentive to strike at the guerrillas’ Achilles heel—the civilian population from which they draw recruits, supplies, shelter, and information—in order to shorten the war. 83 Rebels, too, tend to target noncombatants as they become increasingly des-perate, which tends to occur when government forces begin to infiltrate areas the insurgents have previously controlled, causing the rebels to lash out against defectors to deter other potential turncoats. 84 Desperation to Save Lives. As the costs of fighting mount, states need to conserve their military forces while still putting pressure on the enemy. Given that the manpower resources of most countries are not inexhaust-ible, suffering large numbers of casualties threatens to deplete the state’s most important military asset, which could eventually result in an inability to continue the war. Taking huge casualties is also bad for the military’s morale, as demonstrated by the French army mutinies after the disastrous Nivelle offensive of 1917. Terrific combat losses, moreover, sap morale on the home front, causing civilians to lose faith in victory and pressure the government to stop the war. And, in the words of George Kennan, “Gov-ernment is an agent, not a principal. Its primary obligation is to the in- terests of the national society it represents.” The interests of mankind as a whole rate—if anything—a distant second. 85 This obligation, or “states- man’s duty,” disposes leaders to value and protect the lives of their people over those of foreigners. 86 Targeting enemy civilians (or using force less discriminately)—because it can provide a way to continue attacking the enemy yet decrease one’s own losses at the same time—is a rational solu-tion. 87 Over time, therefore, even if leaders did not previously belie