civilian and military officials knew well that Japan was a much better target for incendiary attack than Germany. This awareness mani-fested itself in extensive prewar interest in the potential of fire as a weapon against Japanese cities by civilians both inside and outside of government, as well as a few air officers, although most cleaved to their doctrine of preci-sion bombing. Concerted planning inside the air force began in 1943 for an incendiary campaign. Prewar Interest in Incendiary Attack. In contrast to the bombing of  Germany, American officials expressed great interest in using fire as a weapon against Japan. The main reason for this interest was the greater vulnerability of Japanese urban construction to fire. Eighty percent of Japanese cities were built out of wood and paper, whereas 95 percent of German cities were EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 38 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [123]constructed of stone and brick. The 1923 earthquake, which started devas- tating fires in Tokyo, brought this fact to the attention of American leaders, and the potential of firebombing figured prominently in their minds in the years leading up to the outbreak of the Pacific War. Former General Billy Mitchell, for example, pointed out in the 1920s and 1930s that the wood and paper construction of Japan’s towns “form the greatest aerial targets the world has ever seen. . . . Incendiary projectiles would burn the cities to the ground in short order.” 20 Claire Chennault, who came out of retirement to command Chiang Kai-shek’s air force in China, wrote to Hap Arnold in 1940 to inform him of the potential for incendiary attack on Japan’s cities. “Whereas Arnold and the airmen rejected the idea” as contrary to the AAF doctrine of precision bombardment, writes Kenneth Werrell, “[President] Roosevelt was delighted by the proposal and o