ve them, we’ve got him. I never think anything is going to work until I’ve seen the pictures after the raid, but if this one works, we will shorten this damned war out here.” 79 LeMay reiterated these views in his press release on March 11: “I believe that all those under my command on these island bases have by their participation in this single operation shortened this war. . . . They are fighting for a quicker end to this war and will continue to fight for a quicker end to it with all the brains and strength they have.” 80 In his memoirs, LeMay explicitly made the argument that he believed his fire raids had saved American lives: No matter how you slice it, you’re going to kill an awful lot of civilians. Thousands and thousands. But, if you don’t destroy the Japanese indus-try, we’re going to have to invade Japan. And how many Americans will be killed in an invasion of Japan? Five hundred thousand seems to be the lowest estimate. Some say a million. . . . We’re at war with Japan. We were attacked by Japan. Do you want to kill Japanese, or would you rather have Americans killed? 81 Haywood Hansell described his successor’s predicament in early 1945 as follows: “The factor of time was taking on a new insistence. The invasion of the Japanese home islands—whose necessity had become an obsession with the Army planners—had been agreed upon. If air power was to end the war without a massive bloodletting on the ground, its application could not be delayed. A drastic reappraisal was in order. LeMay made it.” 82 American leaders knew as soon as it began that a war against Japan would be a long and costly affair. The nature of the fighting in the Pacific the-ater in 1942 and 1943 augmented this belief with the knowledge that Japan would fight to the bitter end, that defeating the Japanese would require an invasion of the home islands, and that this invasion could cost tens of EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https