r, the basic logic of territorial annexation still holds, and no special murderous ideology is needed to generate civilian victimization in these conflicts. A Tactic of Early Resort. Civilian victimization in wars in which the an- nexation of enemy-inhabited territory is the goal tends to be a tactic of early resort because civilians are readily accessible, and attacking them pays im-mediate military and political dividends by removing threats of  rebellion EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 25 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [37]and subversion in the army’s rear area. Furthermore, deterrence is unlikely to act as a restraint because one side may have exclusive access to the adver-sary’s civilians as a consequence of invading enemy territory. Eliminating fifth columns in one’s midst may also seem necessary for survival and hence override fears that the enemy might launch reprisals elsewhere. Moreover, states involved in aggressive wars to seize and colonize territory, or locked in struggles for survival to eliminate fifth columns, are probably less sus-ceptible to norms against harming noncombatants. The Rationality of Civilian Victimization As noted in the introduction, civilian victimization is commonly thought to be irrational because attacking noncombatants is generally ineffective and sometimes even steels the enemy’s resolve to resist. 104 This raises a puz- zling question: If governments know that victimizing civilians will not help achieve their objectives, then why would they do it? Those who uncritically condemn policies of civilian victimization wrongly assume that such policies are always ineffective. 105 There is signifi - cant variation in the success rate of civilian victimization over time and across different types of warfare. In the past, sieges regularly succeeded at capturing enemy towns by star