scriminate nature of these attacks, U.S. forces were already engaging in low-level civilian victimization in the Pacific. From November 1944 to March 1945 U.S. bombers (for the most part) sought to destroy Japanese industry directly with HE rather than purposely kill Japanese civilians, although many died nevertheless. From March to August 1945, by contrast, civilian casualties were a specific objective, even if the ultimate goal was the same: destruction of Japanese war production. In general, the early months of the campaign may be viewed as something of a warm-up for what came later: neither Hansell nor LeMay had suffi-cient numbers of B-29s to launch the all-out devastating incendiary raids air force planners envisioned. The number of aircraft available to bomb in the theater, for example, did not much exceed 100 until early February 1945. Twenty-First Bomber Command had 140 B-29s on hand in late January; this number doubled on February 5 to 285, and increased again to 356 on February 25. 56 Moreover, as Schaffer points out, “In its final report, deliv- ered October 11, 1944, the COA recommended that until the AAF was ready to obliterate the Honshu cities it should send its B-29s against vital precision targets like aircraft plants.” As soon as Twenty-first Bomber Command ac-cumulated the necessary forces, gained needed data from experimental fire raids, and the weather became conducive to starting large blazes, firebomb-ing commenced, according to plan. The difficult conditions for precision bombing in the Far East also played a contributory role in prodding LeMay to change tactics, however, and it is to these conditions I turn next. A Crisis for Bombing in the Pacific. By early March 1945, therefore, B-29 op - erations had failed to make a significant contribution to the defeat of Japan. Strategic airpower in the Pacific so far was a flop. Why? Several factors com-plicated bomber operations in the Pacific theater and reduced bomber effec-tiveness. First, the w