tish fighters while losing 308 total aircraft (109 bombers). Overall, the British lost 657 fighters to all causes in the four weeks after August 8. Fighter Command’s frontline strength remained about the same as it had at the commencement of the battle, but its reserves were dwindling. Moreover, Fighter Command began to experience a shortage of experienced pilots. Matthew Cooper argues that the Germans were four to five weeks away from attaining air superiority in early September, and Peter Townsend opines that “with the combined weight of its bombers and fighters, the Luftwaffe was gradually overpow-ering Fighter Command.” 163 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 64 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [149]The Germans, however, were running out of time. Shipping for the inva- sion was assembled, but Hitler repeatedly postponed the date, waiting for the Luftwaffe to knock out Fighter Command. But the pesky British showed no signs of cracking, and soon the Germans would face poor weather. With a sense of desperation, Luftwaffe leaders turned to London as the last re-maining target that would draw out the British fighters where they could be destroyed. As Williamson Murray puts it, “The impact of losses over southern England combined with inclinations already present in Luftwaffe doctrine to induce a change in German air strategy early in September.” 164 Hitler approved this target change on September 5, lifting his ban on bomb- ing the British capital out of anger at Bomber Command raids on Berlin ordered by Churchill in retaliation for the accidental bombing of London by twelve German aircraft on the night of August 24. This mishap, of course, was made possible by the Luftwaffe’s unsustainable daylight bomber losses over Britain, which forced the Germans to begin bombing at night. With Hitler now in the mood for reprisals, the Luftwa