com-mander, and Hansell’s subordinates (and many of his superiors) did not care for him. Even some of his closest friends in the air force advocated his dismissal. Hansell’s ouster, therefore, was caused by his poor performance, not his resistance to incendiary attack. Racism: “Civilized” Americans, “Barbaric” Japanese. It is commonly  argued that the AAF unleashed incendiaries and ultimately atomic bombs on Japan and not Germany because Americans held racist beliefs that the Jap-anese were subhuman vermin that needed to be exterminated. Put another way, the argument is that Americans viewed the Japanese as outside the realm of civilization and therefore unworthy of the protections owed to people from civilized countries. The identity of the Japanese as a barbaric race, therefore, meant that the United States was not bound by the laws of war in conducting the conflict in the Pacific. As President Truman put it in a letter defending the use of the first A-bomb, “When you have to deal with a beast you have to treat him as a beast. It is most regrettable but  nevertheless true.” 104 There is plenty of evidence that racist stereotypes on both sides increased the ferocity of combat, and that the viciousness of the fighting further fed racist beliefs in the Pacific War.105 The argument that racism was the deter- mining factor in targeting civilians, however, is not convincing. For one, the very premise of this argument is flawed: the AAF did plenty of incen-diary bombing of Germany, albeit mostly under cover of raids on railroad marshalling yards. The stereotype of Allied bombing in Germany is that while the British torched entire cities with incendiaries, the United States bombed only war production and industrial targets with high altitude, precision techniques. The reality, however, is that half of U.S. bombs were delivered by radar through clouds or bad weather, and accuracy for these was worse than that for British night bombing. The scholarly consensus on radar bomb