limsy construction all gone . . . everything burned down, or up, and drill presses standing like skeletons.” 61 Precision attacks on plants, therefore, could slow output, but were unable to bring production to a halt. Third, the long distances the B-29s had to fly to strike Japan reduced the weight of bombs they could carry, which in turn limited their destructive power. Fourth, the AAF’s daylight precision tactics required bombers to fly in formation at high altitude, but this approach played into the strengths of Japanese defenses. Japan’s day-fighter force was far superior to its night-fighters, and the antiaircraft artillery protecting Japanese targets was mostly long range, able to inflict more damage to high-flying planes than those at lower altitudes. B-29s attacking from high altitude in daylight thus met relatively heavy fighter opposition. For example, the first two missions con-ducted after LeMay took command—daylight raids against the Mitsubishi (January 23) and Nakajima (January 27) aircraft facilities—experienced 691 and 984 fighter attacks, respectively. While only two B-29s were lost on the former attack, nine fell victim to enemy defenses on the latter. 62 In short, the weather and physical conditions in the Pacific theater fa- vored the defense and rendered achieving decisive results with HE bomb-ing almost impossible. The Shift to Firebombing Given the failure of bombing with HE, Washington continued to push for further incendiary raids in February 1945 to gauge the effectiveness of fire attacks on Japanese cities. LeMay launched two—against Kobe and Tokyo—the latter of which burned out one square mile of the Japa-nese capital. Both of these missions were flown at high altitude, however, which limited their effectiveness: the aircraft could not carry many bombs, and the extreme winds at high altitude scattered the relatively lightweight  incendiaries across a wide area, preventing large fires from starting. In view EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/202