)—because it can provide a way to continue attacking the enemy yet decrease one’s own losses at the same time—is a rational solu-tion. 87 Over time, therefore, even if leaders did not previously believe in the efficacy of civilian victimization or think that they would use such a morally objectionable strategy, the costs of the fighting convince them that something must be done to win the war but also to limit losses. Civilian victimization is a promising option on both counts. The costs of fighting come in two forms: costs of actual military opera- tions, and costs expected to result from future operations. In the former, in-creasing losses from combat threaten to destroy a belligerent’s forces. This can occur in the context of a particular military campaign or in the war as a whole. When U.S. daylight precision bombing of Germany in World War II became unsustainably costly in the fall of 1943, for example, Ameri-can airmen—rather than abandon bombing altogether—adopted radar techniques that radically reduced accuracy and increased noncombatant casualties, but drastically reduced U.S. bomber losses. 88 In World War I, as the expectations of each of the belligerents regarding the costs of fighting and the duration of the war as a whole changed as 1914 turned to 1915, leaders in many of these countries decided to add civilian victimization—in the form of primitive strategic bombing and naval blockade—to their EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 21 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [33] repertoire of strategies to coerce their enemies to end the war and limit their own combat losses. Civilian victimization may also result when belligerents expect that the costs of future fighting will inflict serious military costs. The anticipation of high costs of fighting can occur before the war actually starts or during the war its