hem bombers) on September 7, compared to 746 serviceable Hurricanes and Spitfires for Fighter Command.168 Deceived by their own inflated kill estimates, however, Luftwaffe leaders convinced themselves that the RAF was on its last legs. The Germans, therefore, launched mas-sive daylight raids totaling over thirteen hundred sorties on September 15 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 65 --- Targeting Civilians in War [150]designed to deliver the coup de grâce to Fighter Command only to be stunned when the British met the raiders with huge clouds of fighters. The Luftwaffe was routed, its attacks broken up and its bombs dropped wildly at a cost of 56 aircraft to the RAF’s 26. 169 This trend continued for the rest of the month until Göring terminated the daylight missions owing to unen-durable losses: from September 16 to September 30 his forces had lost 199 aircraft, more than 13 percent of the aircraft available on the 7th. 170 Opera- tion Sea Lion—postponed indefinitely by the Führer on September 17—was canceled for good on October 12. Phase Three: The Blitz The defensive advantage of fighters over bombers—even heavily escorted bombers—resulted in severe losses for the Luftwaffe and the failure of the daylight bombing of Britain in 1940. “The Luftwaffe simply could not sus- tain constant large-scale daytime bomber sorties,” concludes Telford Taylor. “Fighter Command’s defense was too fierce, and the strain and the losses suffered by the German crews too great.” 171 Heavy casualties in the opening days of Adlerangriff prompted a partial shift to night bombing in late Au- gust, a shift consummated by the disastrous massed day raids of September. Although most historians give September 7 as the opening of the Blitz, this date actually marks the beginning of the final segment of Adlerangriff, when the goal was still the destruction of Fight