man Air Force could achieve little in a potential war against England and that to fight with the resources then at its disposal appeared “fruitless.” 146 Another study from 1939 accurately predicted the likely course of an air offensive against Britain: operations staffers “held out little hope of success in an onslaught against Britain’s fighter force as a pre-liminary to a general attack at a later date. Conditions favoured the defence, and it was considered that losses suffered by the attacking forces would be prohibitively high.” 147 The air force high command’s view in May–June 1940 was that “with existing forces, the Luftwaffe on its own lacked the necessary strength to gain a decisive victory over Britain.” 148 Phase One: Kanalkampf This first phase of concerted air operations against Britain, often referred to as the Kanalkampf (channel war), lasted for roughly six weeks starting July 1, 1940, but achieved no decisive results. Luftwaffe chief Hermann Göring, in his General Directions for the Operation of the Luftwaffe against  England issued on June 30, designated the destruction of Fighter Command as the principal objective of the air campaign. 149 The Germans hoped that strikes on British shipping and ports would draw English fighters into the air where the Luftwaffe’s elite single-engine fighter—the Bf 109—could de- stroy them.150 Göring’s order also “stressed that every effort should be made to avoid unnecessary loss of life amongst the civil population.”151 British fighters, however, assiduously avoided engaging their German counterparts. Chief of Fighter Command Hugh Dowding knew that only German bombers could destroy Britain’s vital industries or Fighter Com-mand’s bases. As one RAF pilot later put it, “We RAF fighters were not in the least interested in the German fighters—except insofar as they were interested in us. Our job was defense. German fighters could do no harm EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All u