ries of beams that steered the aircraft to the target and automatically released the bombs—guided the 449 bombers that struck Coventry that night. 119 The target folder for the mission specified the aiming points as seventeen aircraft and other arma-ments factories. 120 The raid badly damaged a total of twenty-one industrial sites, including twelve aircraft factories, and aircraft production suffered a major setback. As these targets were scattered throughout the city, harm to civilians was severe: 554 killed and 865 seriously hurt, with one-third of the city’s houses left uninhabitable. Incendiaries comprised less than 10 percent of the bombs dropped on Coventry (881 canisters, nearly 32,000 individual munitions), but they started numerous fires that gutted the medieval center of the city. 121 Overall, the Luftwaffe carried out forty-eight raids during the second phase, dropping 10,500 tons of bombs. In final phase of the Blitz, lasting from mid February until the termina- tion of the campaign in mid May, Hitler directed the Luftwaffe to focus on ports in support of a blockade policy. Sixty-one large raids were launched in this three-month period, forty-six of them directed at ports such as Ports-mouth, Plymouth, and Bristol. London was also struck seven times, raids that escalated in intensity as the campaign drew to a close. On April 16 and 19, Luftwaffe bombs killed more than a thousand people each night and wrecked a total of 148,000 houses; on May 10, 1,436 people died, the worst death toll of the campaign. This crescendo of violence, however, signaled EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 58 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [143]an end to the Blitz. Substantial numbers of bombers had already been with- drawn to support the invasions of Greece and Yugoslavia, and with Opera-tion  Barbarossa looming, by late May only four grou