It is unclear whether the incentives created by the risks of losing power dominate those created by the potential costs. Indeed, recent scholarship on war termina-tion has found that—contrary to the democracy argument—the costs of re-moval are the most important factor. Leaders in oligarchic regimes, because they are likely to be removed and punished for even a moderate loss in war, tend to gamble for resurrection, risking catastrophic defeat (and sure punishment) for a slim chance at victory (and continuing in office). 55 Demo- cratic leaders, by contrast, are willing to settle on moderately losing terms because although they will lose office, they will not lose their lives. Dicta-tors, too, will settle for small losses because they can repress any domestic unrest that results. Focusing solely on the risk of removal and ignoring the potential costs of removal, therefore, is misleading. 56 Finally, the democracy argument erroneously assumes that public opinion acts as a brake on leaders’ ability to conduct foreign policy but that leaders lack the ability to shape citizens’ views. In fact, leaders in democracies are not cravenly dependent on public opinion, but possess substantial leeway to act independently, particularly when it comes to state security. 57 Further- more, the initiation of force abroad by a democracy is frequently met with EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 12 --- Targeting Civilians in War [24]a “rally-round-the-flag” effect whereby much of the public closes ranks be- hind the executive.58 Two-thirds of the American public, for instance, ini- tially favored U.S. intervention in Korea and Vietnam, wars that are now widely viewed as the nation’s least popular conflicts. 59 Moreover, opposi- tion parties hardly ever dissent from governments’ choices to threaten or use force. This fact renders the support of the oppositi