figures for August omit damage inflicted by the two atomic bombs (4.7 square miles of Hiroshima and 1.5 square miles of Nagasaki destroyed). The “bombers lost” category includes only those lost on fire missions. The loss rate, however, is for all bombing operations, not just incendiary missions. In general, at least as many aircraft were lost to operational or noncombat causes as were destroyed by enemy action. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 35 --- Targeting Civilians in War [120]battle after battle, Japanese troops repeatedly fought to the last man rather than surrender; the desire to avoid the costs of invading Japan motivated the shift to incendiary bombing, and later the use of atomic weapons. Finally, U.S. precision bombing efforts in the Pacific had proven largely futile owing to the extreme distance involved from the principal U.S. bases in the Marianas Islands, environmental factors like the jet stream, and  Japanese air defenses. Operational failure and relatively high bomber loss rates created a crisis for bombing; shifting to incendiary attack was one way to increase effectiveness, lower losses, and do enormous damage to Japanese urban areas and hence Japan’s industrial productivity—damage that might render an invasion unnecessary and save the lives of countless American servicemen. LeMay alone made the actual decision to shift to in-cendiary tactics, but the preferences of top AAF officers and the substantial planning for fire attack made it clear that an incendiary campaign would eventually occur no matter who was in command. The Pacific War: A War of Attrition The sinking of much of the Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbor left the United States on the defensive in early 1942. The loss of the Philippines also de- prived the United States of the ability to strike directly at the Japanese homeland in any meaningful way. 9 Th