ging the war to an early conclusion quickly prompted air planners to contemplate torching entire towns. The airmen were still inter - ested in crippling Japanese war production, but in Japan precision bombing was not the most efficient way to achieve this goal. The failure of precision EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 56 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [141]tactics to achieve decisive results under Hansell and LeMay ensured a shift to incendiaries in defiance of the AAF’s culture of precision. By contrast, an argument can be made that parochial organizational inter- ests were responsible for the AAF’s turn to civilian victimization in World War II. Specifically, the air force’s quest to become an independent service required that airpower contribute decisively to victory. As Thomas Searle puts it, “If USAAF strategic bombing could make a major contribution to the war effort, it would provide a powerful argument for the service au-tonomy U.S. airmen had sought for decades.” 112 “The pressure on Arnold to prove the decisive nature of strategic bombing was intense,” agrees John Ray Skates, “not only as a prerequisite for independence but also to justify the immense effort expended in manpower and money.” 113 When faced with poor results from precision raids on Japanese industry, therefore, air force leaders turned to incendiary bombing as a means of making a contribution to the war effort, even if it violated their prewar doctrine. The air force’s pursuit of organizational independence clearly influenced some of the AAF’s leading officers and thus played a role in contributing to the firebombing in Japan. America’s air leaders needed palpable results to justify an independent service. But other air forces—the RAF and the Luftwaffe—that were already independent behaved in similar ways: both first attempted precision attack and la