of members of the Roosevelt admin-istration that Japan could be deterred from launching a war by the threat of aerial retaliation against its cities. The official position and plans of the air force itself remained committed to precision attack. The Evolution of Wartime Plans Toward Firebombing. Planning inside the AAF for a bombing campaign against Japan did not begin until 1943. 30 The first compendium of targets, compiled by the Intelligence Section of the EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 40 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [125]Air Staff in March 1943, omitted any mention of area attacks. But the chief of plans requested “a study of the vulnerability of Japanese target areas to incendiary attack” in May, which led to a revised report issued in October. This document, entitled “Japan, Incendiary Attack Data, October 1943,” contained a detailed analysis of the vulnerability of twenty cities to fire-bombing. According to Thomas Searle, “The first page of the report listed four reasons why Japanese cities were better targets than German cities for incendiary attack: the greater inflammability of Japanese residential con-struction, the greater building congestion in Japanese cities, the proximity of factories and military objectives to residential construction in Japan, and the concentration of Japan’s war industry in a few cities. Thus, by Octo-ber of 1943, the Air Staff had determined that incendiary area attacks on Japanese cities would be dramatically more effective than they had been against German cities.” 31 This conclusion was reinforced by tests of the new M-69 incendiary bomb on models of Japanese villages at Dugway Proving Grounds in Utah from May to September 1943, which proved its ability to start numerous fires. 32 A second study of the potential of bombing in Japan performed by the Committee of Operations Analyst