ore than a handful of pinpricks on German cities. From the time Germany invaded Poland until the Battle of France, Bomber Command’s operations consisted mostly of raids on naval vessels and dropping leaflets. Some limited bomb-ing of German oil and rail targets began on May 15, 1940, but more effort was devoted to leafleting, mining the North Sea, and attacking German invasion barges, coastal shipping, and aircraft targets. After the Blitz was well underway, the Air Ministry designated oil as the primary target on October 30, with undermining civilian morale as a secondary objective. Of course, owing to the radical inaccuracy of British bombing, “the Germans were scarcely aware that their oil resources were supposed to have been EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 69 --- Targeting Civilians in War [154]the object of a systematic British assault.”185 Bomber Command launched its first explicit area raid on Mannheim in mid December, but this attack was ordered as a reprisal for the Luftwaffe’s destruction of Coventry the previous month. It was not until July 9, 1941, that civilian morale rose to the top of the list of priorities, and only in 1942 did major urban area raids begin. Unless one is willing to ascribe the entirety of the Blitz to the largely symbolic Bomber Command reprisal attacks on Berlin in August 1940 and a handful of ineffective missions against industrial targets, the “Blitz as repri-sal” argument is not credible. Indeed, the damage from the August 24 raid was so slight that German propaganda minister Josef Goebbels was forced to make it worse to gain any propaganda value from it. As one historian comments, “So feeble were the British efforts against German soil in the autumn of 1940 that Goebbels had to resort to faking British ‘atrocities’ to rouse the German public.” 186 The parochial organizational interest argument