hen belligerents expect that the costs of future fighting will inflict serious military costs. The anticipation of high costs of fighting can occur before the war actually starts or during the war itself. The prospect or expectation that a war will be costly induces states to develop strategies that will achieve the state’s aims but avoid pay-ing a high price. 89 The mere prospect of future costs before a war begins is thus generally not powerful enough to cause states to target civilians be-cause states desire quick and decisive victories, and civilian  victimization— to the extent that it works—works slowly. When the costs of an impending military operation promise to be very high during an ongoing war, however, the state is already committed, fewer alternatives are available, and hence civilian victimization is more likely to be chosen. In one scenario, a state is attacked and knows immediately that the war cannot be won quickly. This was the case in the Pacific after Japan struck the United States in the Philippines and at Pearl Harbor. Driven out of the Far East and with much of the Pacific fleet destroyed, the United States simply did not have the means at its disposal to defeat Japan quickly. Moreover, American leaders understood that penetrating Japan’s defense perimeter would require difficult fighting well before U.S. forces got any-where near the Japanese homeland. In short, U.S. leaders knew that they were in for a long war of attrition and began to plan accordingly for how they might employ airpower against Japanese cities to lower the costs of victory and shorten the war. The classic example of impending costs during an ongoing war is siege warfare: assaulting walled cities was difficult because of the advantages held by the defender, and thus besieging forces would try to reduce the town with indiscriminate bombardment and starvation. A more recent example on a grander scale was the endgame of the Pacific War. Military planners forecast that the proje