f cases and investigate its causes in particular instances. The comparative advantage of statistical methods lies in establishing cor- relations between independent and dependent variables in a wide variety of cases. The analysis in chapter 2, for example, includes all countries that participated in an interstate war in the past two centuries, a total of 323 countries in 100 conflicts. These states are coded along a variety of dimen- sions, including whether or not they used a strategy of civilian victimiza-tion and how many civilians they killed. Using this data, I am able not only to establish correlations between individual independent variables and  civilian victimization, but I can also determine the relative importance of each variable controlling for the effects of the others, as well as estimate how much each of the independent variables increases or decreases the like-lihood that a state will victimize noncombatants. This large-N methodology permits greater confidence in the results than were I to examine only a few cases in depth. In particular, the statistical aspect of this book demonstrates the generalizability (or external validity) of my arguments regarding des-peration, appetite for conquest, and civilian victimization, suggesting that these arguments are not the product of case selection or unique to a few particular cases but hold across many wars. Large-N methodologies are less adroit, however, at showing causality— that changes in an independent variable actually cause (rather than cor-relate with) changes in the dependent variable. Every theory, in addition to having a hypothesis that predicts a relationship between two variables, contains a causal logic that explains why this relationship obtains. If a the-ory is correct, we should observe leaders in individual cases reasoning and behaving in ways that the causal logic of the theory predicts. Investigat-ing these causal logics is the strength of qualitative methods, particularly process tracing