poor results. In the first mission, flown on November 24, 1944, against the Nakajima Musashino aircraft engine fac- tory in Tokyo, only 24 of the 111 B- 29s that left Saipan bombed the primary target; another 64 attacked urban areas. 47 Roughly 1 percent of the buildings and 2 percent of the machine tools were damaged. Eighty-one Superfor- tresses headed back to the same plant on November 27 but were foiled by clouds and forced to bomb by radar. The bombers returned to Musashino again on December 3 and 27, inflicting little damage: twenty-six bombs fell in the target area on each occasion. 48 Meanwhile, Hansell mounted three raids in December against the Mitsubishi aircraft engine plant in Nagoya with varying degrees of success. Arnold, however, was not satisfied with the achievements of the B-29s; desiring a “full-scale test of the potential for firing Japanese cities,” Arnold (through his deputy Norstad) urged Hansell on December 19 to fly an incendiary raid on Nagoya. 49 Hansell resisted, ar- guing that success with HE bombing was just around the corner, but these results failed to materialize quickly enough to save Hansell’s job, as Arnold sacked him in favor of LeMay on January 7, 1945. By all accounts, Hansell “left a legacy of miniscule accomplishment in terms of target destruction coupled with serious losses.” 50 During Hansell’s tenure, Twenty-first Bomber Command undertook fourteen missions, ten of which were daylight HE efforts against particular industrial targets. As Kenneth Werrell observes, “On the ten raids against the aircraft targets, only three achieved results considered good: two against Nagoya, and the one attack [Hansell’s last, coming on January 19] on the Kawasaki plant” in Akashi. 51 Only 14 percent of bombs fell within a thousand feet of the target on these three raids, as opposed to 2 percent on the other seven missions. Thirty-four B-29s were lost, fifteen to enemy fire and nineteen to opera-tional causes. 52 Contrary to conventional wis