here is signifi - cant variation in the success rate of civilian victimization over time and across different types of warfare. In the past, sieges regularly succeeded at capturing enemy towns by starving the besieged civilian population. The hunger, deprivation, sickness, and death inflicted on noncombatants dur-ing the Siege of Paris by Prussia in 1870–71, for example, significantly has- tened French officials’ decision to surrender the city. By late January 1871, according to one history of the conflict, “Cases were reported of people dropping dead in queues outside food-shops, and undernourishment, cold and disease took their toll of thousands more. . . . Faced with the imminent prospect of famine on a horrifying scale, the Government decided that it could not delay negotiating an armistice any longer.” 106 Besieging entire countries and attempting to coerce them into ending a war via civilian victimization is more difficult, owing to the resiliency of the modern nation-state, but does not always fail. The Anglo-American naval blockade of Germany in World War I, for example, is credited by some— including Philipp Scheidemann, the leader of Germany’s Social Democratic Party at the end of the war—with contributing to Germany’s eventual collapse in the fall of 1918. 107 Similarly, the U.S. blockade of Japan during World War II debilitated Japanese war production by 1945. Had the war continued, Japan would have faced widespread famine owing to its inabil-ity to import food. 108 By contrast, all three attempts by continental powers to interdict Great Britain’s food supply—Napoleon’s Continental System, and the U-boat campaigns of Wilhelmine and Nazi Germany—produced disappointing results for the coercer, owing to Britain’s ability to adjust to projected shortages, substitute other goods for those in short supply, and place more land under cultivation. 109 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.c