arget on these three raids, as opposed to 2 percent on the other seven missions. Thirty-four B-29s were lost, fifteen to enemy fire and nineteen to opera-tional causes. 52 Contrary to conventional wisdom, the nature of operations did not change drastically when LeMay took charge in January 1945. In fact, LeMay’s first eight missions bear a striking resemblance to those launched under his predecessor: six were daylight attacks against industrial targets (mostly aircraft plants) and two were experimental area raids with incendiaries. 53 Half of the precision missions, however, were complete failures, with no bombers dropping their cargoes on the primary target. It could no longer be denied that HE bombing in the Pacific theater was a failure, a conclusion the AAF Evaluation Board had already reached in mid January 1945. 54 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 44 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [129]As indicated by the accuracy statistics cited in the previous paragraphs, it is a misnomer to describe U.S. bombing from November 1944 to March 1945 as “precision bombing.” Precision was what these strikes aspired to rather than what they achieved. In fact, many raids were conducted by radar—which at this time was inherently imprecise—and the secondary targets for the bombers were often “urban areas.” 55 Even raids conducted in clear weather that struck the primary target managed to place less than 15 percent of their bombs within a thousand feet of the aim point. Finally, more than one quarter of Twenty-first Bomber Command’s missions were self-described urban area raids mounted largely with incendiary munitions. Because of the overall indiscriminate nature of these attacks, U.S. forces were already engaging in low-level civilian victimization in the Pacific. From November 1944 to March 1945 U.S. bombers (for the most part) sought to de