the German fighters—except insofar as they were interested in us. Our job was defense. German fighters could do no harm EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 62 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [147]to Britain. German bombers with their deadly loads were the menace. Our orders were to seek them out and destroy them.”152 The battle did not go well for the Luftwaffe. In the four weeks between July 10 and August 8, Luftwaffe bombers sank only 40,000 tons of British coastal shipping, a paltry 1 percent of the 4 million tons then operating. To destroy this meager tonnage, German aircraft suffered heavily. In five weeks of operations after July 1, Luftwaffe aircraft losses were nearly dou- ble those of Fighter Command, 279 against 142; 181 of the German losses were bombers. 153 Relative loss rates for the entire Battle of Britain are dis- played in table 4.4. Phase Two: Adlerangriff Observing the evident failure of the Kanalkampf to destroy Fighter Com- mand or isolate Britain from trade, Hitler issued Directive No. 16 calling for an invasion of Great Britain. To support Operation Sea Lion, Hitler au-thorized unlimited air and sea operations against Britain to begin anytime after August 5, with the proviso that London was to remain off limits. 154 Air superiority was vital to a cross-channel invasion, so the destruction of Fighter Command remained the central goal of air operations: “The English Air Force must be so reduced morally and physically that it is unable to deliver any significant attack against the German crossing.” 155 To achieve this goal, however, the new plan—designated Adlerangriff (Eagle Attack)—adopted a different means: attack British fighters not only in the air, but also on the ground through the destruction of airfields, radar stations, and related infrastructure in a thirteen-day offensive south and southeast of Lo