the British efforts against German soil in the autumn of 1940 that Goebbels had to resort to faking British ‘atrocities’ to rouse the German public.” 186 The parochial organizational interest argument is even less persuasive because the Luftwaffe was already an independent military service. Even had bombing forced the British to seek an accommodation with Germany, the Luftwaffe would never have supplanted the army as the preeminent  service. The evidence presented in this chapter supports the conclusion that esca- lating or expected military costs and desperation to achieve victory lead to civilian victimization. Against Japan, the high costs and poor performance of precision bombing—as well as the prospective costs to American troops of invading the Japanese home islands—influenced the decision to inciner-ate Japanese cities. Overwhelming majorities of the American public and U.S. political leaders approved of these policies in full knowledge of the price being paid by enemy civilians. Escalating costs to the Luftwaffe—and the faint hope that punishing bombardment of cities might vanquish British morale—also prompted the German Blitz. Several distinguished scholars of airpower in World War II have noted that over the course of the conflict, existing moral constraints eroded until, by the end, few questioned the morality of obliterating more than one hun-dred thousand civilians with atomic weaponry. Richard Davis, for exam-ple, maintains that while American bombers over Germany tried to attack military objectives as much as they could, “the harsh realities of total war made it preferable to bomb something rather than nothing at all.” 187 “De- spite the poor accuracy of blind bombing,” notes Gary Shandroff, “the pro-portion of radar missions continued to increase. It seemed logical to many in the Air Force that inaccurate bombing was better than no bombing at all.” 188 Shandroff remarks that this shift in emphasis occurred “within a milieu dominated by one central th