s are able to adapt and minimize their vulnerability, punishment cannot inflict sufficient pain on nationalistic so-cieties to compel them to sacrifice important interests, and hurting civilians more often turns them against the attacker than against their own leaders. Beyond these factors, coercion produces success late in wars for Pape be-cause leaders face significant costs for admitting defeat. Democratic leaders confront the prospect of being voted out of office for losing the war, whereas autocratic leaders may be overthrown, exiled, jailed, or killed. Leaders thus tend to hold out, hoping for a miracle to reverse the tide of battle and save their political futures. Even when political leaders are ready to throw in the towel, sometimes the military opposes surrender. 92 Other factors reinforce the tendency for civilian victimization as a tactic of later resort. The most important of these is deterrence, the ability of both adversaries to strike each other’s noncombatants. When both belligerents have the ability to kill their adversary’s civilians, each may be deterred from striking by the prospect of retaliation, much like mutual assured destruc-tion discouraged the United States and the Soviet Union from using nuclear weapons during the cold war. Mutual deterrence of this kind, for example, restrained the onset of urban aerial bombing by Britain and Germany in the early years of World War II. 93 When only one side possesses the capability to target civilians—or when a conflict has progressed to the stage that one side is safe from retaliation by the enemy—the deterrence view would not predict restraint to hold up. Belligerents may also be deterred from victimizing noncombatants by the fear of alienating a powerful third party or even provoking it to enter hos-tilities. In the early months of World War I, British leaders worried that im-plementing a total blockade of Germany might provoke the neutral states of northern Europe to enter the conflict on Germany’s