d palpable results to justify an independent service. But other air forces—the RAF and the Luftwaffe—that were already independent behaved in similar ways: both first attempted precision attack and later shifted to more indiscriminate tac-tics owing to ineffectiveness and high loss rates. For the parochial interests argument to be true, one would have to argue that the escalation to firebomb-ing would not have occurred had the air force been independent. Moreover, the organizational argument implies that the failure of precision bombing was the key factor behind the shift to firebombing, but this ignores the AAF’s extensive exploration of and planning for incendiary attack in the Pacific the-ater well before it suffered the loss of a single aircraft over Japan. A slightly different take on the organizational argument places respon- sibility for the shift to firebombing on LeMay alone. Conrad Crane, for ex-ample, points out that LeMay had great autonomy in his command, was not a product of the ACTS precision doctrine school of thought, pioneered blind bombing methods in Europe, and led and ordered area raids in  Europe and the Far East. 114 This argument, however, ultimately fails. Air planners were well aware of Japan’s vulnerability to fire, and the plans for air at- tack on Japan called for eventual incendiary raids on urban areas. Even had  Hansell remained in command, the shift in emphasis to firebombing would have come sooner or later. 115 Hansell himself points out in his memoirs that LeMay was not chiefly behind the shift to fire attack: “The change to area urban incendiary attack, when it finally came, can not be laid directly at General LeMay’s door. Its initial support came from Twentieth Air Force Headquarters. And it had begun with the selection of urban targets, after a revised report on Far East economic objectives was written and issued in October 1944 by the Committee of Operations Analysts.” 116 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBI