panese cities and viewed the RAF’s demolition of Hamburg as “ ‘an impressive demonstra- tion’ of what America might achieve against Japan.” 94 The president even approved a bizarre scheme that proposed to burn down Japanese cities by releasing swarms of bats equipped with tiny incendiary bombs. 95 In sum, as Roosevelt put it, “The Nazis and the Fascists have asked for it—and they are going to get it.” 96 The only civilian official on record as registering any objections to area bombing is Secretary of War Henry Stimson. After the press reported that the Allies had shifted to a policy of area bombing after the Dresden raid in February 1945, Stimson raised questions about the nature of American bombing there, but did not follow up. Later, Stimson attempted to hold the AAF to a policy of precision bombing in Japan, seemingly unaware that the policy had already changed to firebombing. 97 Finally, Stimson succeeded in having Kyoto removed from the target list for the atomic bombs. The secre-tary of war was no great humanitarian, however, as Barton Bernstein notes: “It was not that Stimson was trying to save Kyoto’s citizens; rather, he was seeking to save its relics, lest the Japanese become embittered and later side with the Soviets.” 98 Stimson also chaired the Interim Committee that recom- mended using the A-bomb without warning on a Japanese city. A handful of military officers also expressed moral reservations about bombing civilians.99 Some of this concern was indeed genuine, but much of it stemmed not from the belief that killing civilians was wrong, but rather that the time was not yet right to target noncombatants. General Ira Eaker’s oft-quoted comment that “we should never allow the history of this war to convict us of throwing the strategic bomber at the man in the street” is fre-quently cited as an example of AAF moral opposition to bombing civilians (in this case German civilians). However, Eaker only opposed bombing ci-vilians because he thought it was too