tly rejected launching a campaign of unlimited submarine war-fare against British commerce with German U-boats. Such a strategy, they believed, ran too great a risk of provoking the United States to enter the con-flict, a risk they did not feel was warranted given Germany’s relatively fa-vorable military position. In the summer of 1916, however, blow after blow struck the Central Powers—failure at Verdun, the British offensive on the Somme, the Brusilov offensive against Austria-Hungary, and the entry of Romania into the war on the side of the Entente powers—radically chang-ing the German leadership’s perception of the likelihood of victory. A sense of desperation that something had to be done to stem the tide of defeats finally caused Bethmann-Hollweg to acquiesce in the military’s desire for U-boat warfare against ships importing food to Britain. As naval historian V . E. Tarrant concludes, “The demands of the military and naval leaders, the Kaiser’s acquiescence and the Chancellor’s abdication of authority had a common denominator—realistically there was no alternative but to make the ultimate decision with regard to the strategic use of the U-boats, because Germany’s situation was desperate.” 82 Desperation to win is also behind many instances of civilian victimiza- tion in wars against guerrilla insurgencies. Rebel movements that choose to employ a guerrilla strategy do not hope to defeat their more powerful foes by inflicting massive casualties. Rather, guerrillas hope to prolong the war indefinitely, inflicting small but steady casualties on their adversary in the hope that the more powerful side will tire of the conflict and give in to the EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 20 --- Targeting Civilians in War [32]insurgents’ demands instead of continuing to prosecute a seemingly un- winnable war. The stronger forces, therefore,