proximately 560,000 Japanese and succeed in “dehousing” nearly 8 million workers. 36 The next month, the COA “recommended an incendiary assault on Japan’s cities to come after a precision campaign,” ideally in March 1945 when EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 41 --- Targeting Civilians in War [126]weather conditions would be best suited to inflicting maximum fire dam- age.37 By September 1944, concludes Michael Sherry, although no clear-cut directives were issued, “the air staff apparently had committed itself to a major incendiary campaign the following spring.” 38 The rationale for such a campaign was clearly articulated in an October memo written by chem-ist Raymond Ewell of the National Defense Research Committee. Ewell thought the AAF should dispense with precision bombing altogether and immediately shift to firebombing, which he believed could be “the key to accelerating the defeat of Japan, and if as successful as seems probable, . . . might shorten the war by some months and save many thousands of American lives.” 39 Evidence indicates that Arnold and the air planners did not want to ini- tiate an incendiary campaign until the AAF had amassed sufficient num-bers of B-29s in the Marianas to inflict massive destruction. Members of the COA, for example, were concerned that attacking too early with fewer aircraft “would merely create firebreaks against a later heavy attack.” More-over, striking several Japanese cities in a short, violent burst increased the likelihood that the Japanese would be overwhelmed and unable to adapt to the change in American tactics. 40 Similarly, when Arnold’s deputy, General Lauris Norstad recommended in late November that the AAF memorialize the fourth anniversary of Pearl Harbor by bombing the Imperial Palace in Tokyo, Arnold responded, “Not at this time. Our position—bombing facto-ries, docks, etc