://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 32 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [117]expended their entire stock of incendiaries. The details of these attacks may be found in table 4.1. Overall, including the Tokyo raid, these five missions burned out 31.9 square miles of Japan’s four largest cities. This was more damage than the combined bomber offensive inflicted on the six most-bombed German cities and amounted to 41 percent of the destruction visited on Germany in the entire war, all accomplished with fewer than  1 percent of the bomb tonnage! Moreover, Twenty-first Bomber Command’s sortie rate skyrocketed: LeMay’s force launched about the same number of sorties in the blitz as were sent against Japan in the previous four months. Yet the number of B-29s lost in this flurry of activity was only about one-quarter the number lost in that four month period, twenty-two as compared to seventy-eight. 4 The fire raids were interrupted for several weeks so Twenty-first Bomber Command could support the invasion of Okinawa, but they picked up again in mid May. Large forces of B-29s again pounded Japan’s largest cities before turning their attention to medium-size urban areas in mid June, and then to small cities and towns in July as the larger cities were progressively destroyed. Chief of Staff of the Army Air Forces (AAF) General Henry “Hap” Arnold’s prediction that “Japan . . . will become a nation without cities” was rapidly being realized. 5 Table 4.2 summarizes these raids. Over the course of the campaign against Japan, incendiary munitions composed 61 percent of Twentieth Air Force’s total tonnage, and roughly 70 percent of the total bomb weight was dropped on urban areas (as opposed to par-ticular targets in cities). 6 Almost every town with more than thirty-eight thousand people was bombed. The record of destruction is impressive: In all, sixty-six cities (including Hiroshima and Nagasaki)—home to 20.8 million people—were attacked. T