many bombs, and the extreme winds at high altitude scattered the relatively lightweight  incendiaries across a wide area, preventing large fires from starting. In view EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 46 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [131]of these difficulties, LeMay improvised and ordered his B-29s to attack at night with incendiaries from lower altitudes. Although his antiaircraft artil-lery experts uniformly predicted disaster, LeMay believed (correctly) from examining intelligence photos that the Japanese possessed few low-level flak guns. Night flying would further protect his bombers from flak as well as fighter opposition, since the Japanese had only two night-fighter units deployed in the homeland. Moreover, low-level attacks would consume much less fuel because the planes would not have to fight the jet stream. To further decrease aircraft weight, LeMay stripped his Superfortresses of their defensive guns and the gunners needed to man them. This savings in fuel could be translated into an increased bomb load. The resulting modi-fications more than doubled the B-29s’ average bomb load from three to six-and-a-half tons. 63 LeMay had found the magic formula. Over the next five months, he and his bomber crews gutted Japan’s cities and towns. Moreover, U.S. bomber losses on incendiary missions were but a fraction of those on precision raids. LeMay’s new tactics, designed “to inflict the maximum damage on the enemy with the minimum casualties on the American side,” proved devas-tatingly effective. 64 No order ever came from Arnold, Norstad, or anyone else in Washington instructing LeMay to shift to an incendiary campaign: LeMay alone made the decision to firebomb Tokyo. Precision bombing was already a failure; Arnold did not want to take responsibility for a new strategy that he was unsure would succeed. What LeMay did r