contributed to the brutality of the war by al-lowing soldiers to view their foes as less than human but does not contend that racism alone was the determining factor in targeting noncombatants: “Such dehumanization . . . surely facilitated the decisions to make civilian populations the targets of concentrated attack, whether by conventional or nuclear weapons.” 111 Underlying racist beliefs—and race hatreds fanned by wartime atrocities—undoubtedly made the shift to targeting civilians easier (and allowed American airmen to be much more open about their tactics), but did not by themselves cause the change from precision to incendiary attack. A more convincing answer is provided by the varying susceptibility of Japanese and German construction to fire. As discussed above, American planners recognized early on that incendiary bombs would be far more ef-fective against wooden and paper Japanese construction than against the stone and brick German housing. In fact, American plans called for an even-tual shift to firebombing against Japan. Japanese industry was also highly decentralized, rendering it relatively immune to concentrated high explo-sive strikes but vulnerable to fire. These conditions led American airmen to believe that incendiary attack would be more effective versus Japan than against Germany. Organization Theory. Organizational culture arguments fail to account for the firebombing of Japan. As previously discussed, a belief in precision bomb-ing permeated the AAF in the interwar years, and the air force’s doctrine and plans called for the bombardment of specific objectives in the enemy’s industrial economy, not overt attacks on civilians or civilian morale. In the Pacific, however, the known susceptibility of Japanese cities to fire and the possibility of bringing the war to an early conclusion quickly prompted air planners to contemplate torching entire towns. The airmen were still inter - ested in crippling Japanese war production, but in Japan precision