ted island-hopping campaign did the United States acquire bases close enough to Japan to contemplate a serious cam-paign of civilian victimization. 96 Appetite for Conquest and Civilian Victimization The desperation model assumes nothing about the nature of the belliger- ents’ war aims, only that states go to war over an unspecified issue. In some conflicts, however, the objective of one or both combatants is to conquer and annex a piece of the adversary’s territory. Land, of course, is rarely uninhabited, and the people living there can be more or less hostile to the change in ownership. When the chancellor of Prussia, Otto von Bismarck, sought to annex the historically German provinces of Alsace and Lorraine (acquired by France under Louis XIV) in the Franco-Prussian War, much of the population did not oppose the transfer of sovereignty. The Prussians, moreover, viewed the inhabitants as “German” and capable of being assim-ilated without much trouble. 97 Mass violence against civilians was therefore absent in this case. Other cases, however, turn out differently. What distin-guishes these from the outcome in 1870? I argue that the presence of civilian populations sharing the nationality of the enemy in areas a belligerent wishes to annex generates civilian victimiza-tion to cow such people into submission or, more commonly, to evict them from the territory altogether. 98 On the one hand, these civilians sometimes pose a real threat of subversion or rebellion, a potential fifth column that can create serious immediate or future problems for the occupier. Demographi-cally intermingled ethnonational groups, for example—such as Arabs and Jews in Palestine (1947– 49) or Serbs and Muslims in Bosnia (1992– 95)— occasionally go to war. At least one side in such conflicts—and often both—seeks to establish a national state on all or part of the territory inhabited by another group. A national state with a substantial minority of “nonnation-als,” however, is unlikely to be s