itory’s former owner a claim to the land. In the first Balkan war (1912– 13), for ex- ample, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, and Greece invaded Ottoman territory with the explicit intention of seizing land and annexing it to their national states. To ensure the viability—and permanence—of these conquests, and to reduce the possibility that the Turks would seek to reconquer lost territories, the Balkan states quickly set about persecuting and expelling Turkish civil-ians. When the former allies turned on each other in the second Balkan war (1913), they likewise killed and banished civilians who shared the national- ity of their new enemy, the losing Bulgarians suffering the most. 101 In interstate wars, the group most likely to be viewed as hostile or threat- ening is the noncombatant population that shares the enemy’s national-ity. Occasionally, however, a regime identifies one particular group in the enemy society as the most serious threat, such as Nazi Germany’s classifica-tion of Jews as a racial and ideological menace. Groups like this may then be singled out for especially harsh treatment, deportation, or even total an-nihilation. This may also occur when a state at war perceives a particular domestic population as sympathetic to the enemy and thus constituting a potential fifth column. Examples include Turkey’s treatment of its Arme-nian population in World War I, and Stalin’s deportation of ethnic Germans from European Russia and several other groups from the Caucasus during World War II. 102 Nor is ethnonational identity the sole line of difference: some states are governed by particular political ideologies and may per-secute their ideological foes on invading another country. 103 These special motivations for identifying the “hostile” population granted, however, the basic logic of territorial annexation still holds, and no special murderous ideology is needed to generate civilian victimization in these conflicts. A Tactic of Early Resort. Civilian victimiz