he street” is fre-quently cited as an example of AAF moral opposition to bombing civilians (in this case German civilians). However, Eaker only opposed bombing ci-vilians because he thought it was too early in the war to be effective. He continued: “I think there is a better way we can do our share toward the defeat of the enemy, but if we are to attack the civil population I am certain we should wait until its morale is much nearer [the] breaking point and until the weather favors the operation more than it will at any time in the winter or early spring.” 100 Much has also been made of Haywood Hansell’s supposed principled opposition to urban incendiary bombing. Some historians have implied that Hansell’s superiors removed him from command because he refused to conduct urban incendiary attacks. 101 There is little support for this view. First, although Hansell protested orders from Arnold to conduct experi- EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 54 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [139]mental fire raids, as Thomas Searle points out, “For all his complaining, Hansell never even hinted at resigning or disobeying orders. If area bomb-ing was what it took to stay in command, Hansell would have continued to do as much of it as Arnold told him to.” 102 Second, despite his commitment to precision bombing, Hansell’s forces did plenty of area bombing, includ-ing a night fire raid on Tokyo (November 29) before Arnold ordered him to experiment with incendiary tactics. 103 By contrast, there were several com- pelling reasons to replace Hansell with LeMay that had nothing to do with the incendiary issue: LeMay outranked Hansell, LeMay was a better com-mander, and Hansell’s subordinates (and many of his superiors) did not care for him. Even some of his closest friends in the air force advocated his dismissal. Hansell’s ouster, therefore, was cau