and environs would be directly affected by casual-ties, movement of workers out of the area, use of manpower in reconstruc-tion, and probably lowered worker morale.” 76 As Thomas Searle observes, “Casualties were again explicitly mentioned, and regarded as desirable because they would directly affect employment at war plants. . . . Lower-ing morale was a means of lowering industrial production—not a means of inciting either rebellion or popular demands for surrender.” 77 As LeMay put it colorfully in his memoirs, EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 50 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [135]We were going after military targets. No point in slaughtering civilians for the mere sake of slaughter. Of course there is a pretty thin veneer in Japan, but the veneer was there. It was their system of dispersal of industry. All you had to do was visit one of those targets after we’d roasted it, and see the ruins of a multitude of tiny houses, with a drill press sticking up through the wreckage of every home. . . . We knew we were going to kill a lot of women and kids when we burned down that town. Had to be done. 78 The architect of the fire raids certainly believed that he had found a way to bring hostilities to a rapid close, thereby saving American lives. LeMay told Lieutenant Colonel St. Clair McKelway, the public relations officer for Twenty-first Bomber Command, while the bombers were winging their way to Tokyo on the night of March 9: “If this raid works the way I think it will, we can shorten this war. . . . He hasn’t moved his industries to  Manchuria yet, although he’s starting to move them, and if we can destroy them be- fore he can move them, we’ve got him. I never think anything is going to work until I’ve seen the pictures after the raid, but if this one works, we will shorten this damned war out here.” 79 LeMay reiterated these