gets, after a revised report on Far East economic objectives was written and issued in October 1944 by the Committee of Operations Analysts.” 116 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 57 --- Targeting Civilians in War [142]Germany’s Luftwaffe: The Battle of Britain and the Blitz The German strategic air offensive known as the Blitz was a campaign of night bombing that began in late September 1940 and concluded the follow- ing May. Its goal was to knock Britain out of the war by destroying key indus- trial objectives and terrorizing the population. The Blitz came on the heels of the Luftwaffe’s costly failure to win air superiority in the summer of 1940 and prepare the way for Operation Sea Lion, the German invasion of Britain. Unable to drive English fighter defenses from the sky, and suffering heavy attrition, the Luftwaffe—contrary to its organizational precepts—shifted to night bombing and commenced an extended strategic campaign that took the lives of forty thousand civilians, about half of them in London. 117 The Blitz unfolded in three phases.118 In the first phase, lasting from mid September to mid November 1940, the primary target was London, which was hit with a raid of at least a hundred bombers on all but ten nights for a total of fifty-eight major strikes. Approximately thirteen thousand people were killed in this period in London. Phase two of the Blitz targeted British ports and war production in fourteen cities, beginning with the destruction of Coventry on the night of November 14 and lasting through mid Feb- ruary 1941. A pathfinder unit of German medium bombers using X-Gerät (System X)—a navigational aid consisting of a series of beams that steered the aircraft to the target and automatically released the bombs—guided the 449 bombers that struck Coventry that night. 119 The target folder for the mission specified the a