r blockade of the necessities of life. It also includes deaths caused by starvation, exhaustion, exposure, or disease during forced relocation or forced labor.” 2 Several aspects of civilian victimization bear elaboration. First, in accor- dance with the Geneva Conventions, I define combatants as “all organized armed forces, groups and units which are under a command responsible to that Party for the conduct of its subordinates,” as well as individuals involved in the construction of weapons. 3 Noncombatants, by contrast, do not participate in armed conflict by fighting, carrying weapons, serving in the uniformed military or security services, or building weapons. Two gen-eral principles can be used to demarcate the line between combatants and noncombatants. One view, articulated by Michael Walzer, maintains that people have the right to be free from violence unless they forfeit that right by participating in military activity, such as taking up arms or working in a munitions factory. As Walzer puts it, “No one can be threatened with war or warred against, unless through some act of his own he has surrendered or lost his rights.” 4 A second perspective focuses on the degree of threat an in- dividual poses to the adversary to draw the combatant/noncombatant line. Only those individuals who actively participate in hostilities—by serving in the armed forces, for example—constitute an immediate threat of harm to the enemy and thus qualify as combatants. 5 I argue that individuals who build bombs and other munitions also pose a significant threat of harm and should thus be included in the combatant category. If they are not, attacks on munitions factories (or targeted killings of terrorist bomb-makers, for that matter) would have to be classified as intentional targeting of civilians. This violates the common-sense understanding that such individuals are EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/te