planning agencies recommended firebombing, however, they argued it should not commence until sufficient resources were available to burn large areas and make the biggest impact. This section traces the actual course of bombing up until the shift to sustained incendiary attack in March 1945. I argue that the operational difficulties faced by Twenty-first Bomber Command operating from the Marianas—along with pressure from air force commanders in Washington— were the immediate cause of LeMay’s decision to inaugurate the fire cam-paign. LeMay gave the order for systematic fire attacks to begin, but the long-standing interest in—and planning for—incendiary raids ensured that such attacks would have occurred at about the same time whoever was in command. LeMay determined only the manner in which the raids would be flown and their timing. Operations from China. Early in the war, the United States lacked both the resources and bases in proximity to Japan to launch a major strategic air offensive. As the first new B-29 aircraft became available in early 1944 Arnold decided to deploy them to India and stage missions out of China in a campaign called Matterhorn. 43 Operations began in early June and fol- lowed the AAF’s precision doctrine, dropping primarily high-explosive ordnance (HE) from high altitudes on specific industrial targets. The re-sults of the first raid—against railroad shops in Bangkok—were typical of Twentieth Bomber Command’s operations from India and China: 16–18 bombs (4 –4.5 tons of 353 tons dropped) landed in the target area with little damage inflicted. 44 Two factors handicapped Twentieth Bomber Command’s operations in the Far East. First, the logistic effort required to sustain bomber operations was extreme, as ferrying the materiel necessary to launch one attack sortie from China required seven trips over the Himalayas from India. 45 These lo- gistical limitations made it nearly impossible to mount substantial attacks. Second, only a small part of sou