pressure the government to end the war. The logic of punishment is clearly reflected in Lord Cherwell’s “de-housing” memo, which became the basis for British urban area bombing during World War II. Cherwell—Prime Minister Winston Churchill’s scien-tific adviser—argued that relentless bombing of cities would destroy Ger-man morale by rendering the population homeless. 79 Of course, the British proposed to do much more than simply destroy German homes: the real targets were the occupants of those homes. But the objective of the strat-egy is nonetheless clear: kill noncombatants to break the will of survivors, thereby inducing the enemy to give up. Victimizing civilians can also follow the logic of denial, intended more to undermine the adversary’s ability to prosecute its military strategy than to break its will to resist. According to internal military documents from 1943 and 1944, for example, American planning to use incendiary bombs against Japanese cities was not a punishment strategy. Rather, the objective was to destroy Japan’s dispersed system of industrial production and to gener-ate a labor shortage by killing workers. 80 Similarly, in response to Chinese intervention in the Korean War in early November 1950, the commander of UN forces—General Douglas MacArthur—unleashed U.S. bombers to create a cordon sanitaire between the Chinese border and UN lines. Accord-ing to one historian, “MacArthur told the American ambassador to South Korea that he intended to turn the narrow stretch of territory between UN lines and the border into ‘a desert’ incapable of supporting Communist troops.” 81 The denial logic of civilian victimization is even more apparent in coun- terguerrilla warfare. Insurgent forces rely on the assistance they receive from the civilian population. Counterinsurgency strategies use civilian vic-timization to sever the link between the guerrillas and the populace by one EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All us