nd the fact that it was not even worse. The argument, however, faces three anomalies. First, it maintains that the Luftwaffe’s cul-ture of ground support determined German restraint, but fails to acknowl-edge that Hitler—a civilian—was the key decision-maker. Although Hitler served in the army in World War I, it is not clear that Hitler’s beliefs regard-ing the inefficacy of airpower to win wars on its own stemmed from his earlier immersion in the culture of land power or from some other cause. Second, proponents of the cultural explanation contend that the Luftwaffe championed counterforce bombing and restraint with regard to noncomba-tants, but in fact several Luftwaffe generals—including Luftwaffe chief of staff Hans Jeschonnek and commander of Luftflotte 2 Albert Kesselring— became the most vocal advocates of bombing London as the Battle of Brit-ain wore on. 184 Hitler—the civilian—consistently dismissed these calls and insisted on restraint, most likely because he still held out the faint hope that the British could be convinced to come to terms with Germany, and he did not wish to alienate them unduly by bombing civilians. Finally, the cultural argument largely ignores the reality that the Luftwaffe actually engaged in a nine-month campaign of indiscriminate night bomb-ing of British cities that killed forty thousand people. It may not have been as severe as that conducted later by Bomber Command against Germany, but the bombing was curtailed by Hitler’s plan to invade the Soviet Union. A skeptic might respond that the cultural argument does not predict infi-nite restraint when that restraint is not reciprocated by the enemy. But this gets the timing backward: the Germans began their systematic campaign against British cities well before Bomber Command inflicted more than a handful of pinpricks on German cities. From the time Germany invaded Poland until the Battle of France, Bomber Command’s operations consisted mostly of raids on naval vessels and dropping l