he Iraqi regime was using Al-Firdos as a bomb shelter for civilian dependents of Iraqi officials. The air strike killed approximately two hundred to three hundred civilians. These deaths, although tragic, did not result from a government policy of targeting noncombatants. Nor did the casualties stem from a refusal to discriminate between soldiers and civil-ians, as the U.S. military did not even know there were noncombatants pres-ent at the target. Moreover, immediately after the Al-Firdos disaster, U.S. officials declared Baghdad off-limits to further air strikes, and few targets were struck in the Iraqi capital for the remainder of the war. 14 Table 1.1 high- lights the differences among these types of violence and provides examples of each. 15 Clearly there are cases in which establishing the intentionality or delib- erateness of civilian victimization is harder than in the British case. Policy-makers do not always speak openly or truthfully when it comes to killing innocent people: there is no mention in the memoirs of British leaders, for example, that the policy of blockade in World War I was meant to starve the German people. President Truman, moreover, spoke of Hiroshima and Nagasaki as purely military targets. 16 These cases highlight the importance of examining internal government documents and private communications whenever possible to supplement leaders’ official pronouncements. They EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 5 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [17]also underline the importance of observing behavioral indicators that may indicate a shift toward civilian victimization—increasing indiscriminateness, decreasing concern for civilian life, or variation in the types of weapons used (incendiary versus high explosive bombs, for example). Other analysts have chosen to include only intentional civilian de