May alone made the decision to firebomb Tokyo. Precision bombing was already a failure; Arnold did not want to take responsibility for a new strategy that he was unsure would succeed. What LeMay did receive from his command-ers was a strong unwritten message in the form of suggestions and hints, “polite nudges and the occasional injunction,” as Sherry puts it, combined with frequent reminders to maximize the number of bombs dropped. 65 The preferences of the AAF’s top leadership, as well as the planning for an incen-diary campaign underway inside the AAF since 1943, lead most historians to argue that fire would have come to Japan’s cities sooner or later no matter who was in command of Twenty-first Bomber Command. Indeed, LeMay’s decision was embraced after the fact by his superiors in the AAF and civil-ians in Washington, who congratulated LeMay on his smashing success. 66 Explaining the Change to Incendiary Bombing To adequately explain the adoption of incendiary area bombing in the Pacific theater, it is necessary to account for the preferences of three sets of actors: (1) the top civilian leadership, namely the president; (2) the top military leadership, in this case—because of the enormous autonomy of the different armed services—General Arnold, chief of staff of the AAF; and (3) the local military commander, Curtis LeMay. Roosevelt. President Roosevelt did not micromanage the conduct of the war or closely monitor the actions of his military commanders. American EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 47 --- Targeting Civilians in War [132]civil-military relations in World War II were thus far different from those in the Vietnam War, where President Johnson exercised strict control over military operations, particularly the Rolling Thunder bombing campaign against North Vietnam. FDR rarely intervened in the air war, and certainly did