ian, deaths are always intended.17 This definition undesirably stretches the concept of intentionality. Valentino, for example, argues that if noncombatants are the direct object of the policy, their deaths should be considered intentional if they are a foreseeable result of the policy. But this statement equates the mere knowledge that civilians will die with intending or desiring their deaths. Valentino thus contends that the fatali-ties of Boer women and children in British concentration camps during the Second Anglo-Boer War (1899– 1902) were intentional because the civilians themselves were the object of the policy. This judgment is belied by the evidence, however, which shows that British officials did not purpose-fully try to kill these people, or hope to bring about the deaths. According to historian Thomas Pakenham, “Kitchener no more desired the death of women and children in the camps than of the wounded Dervishes after Omdurman, or of his own soldiers in the typhoid-stricken hospitals of Bloemfontein. He was simply not interested.” 18 Civilians were the direct object of the reconcentration policy, but this does not necessarily make their deaths intentional. Valentino also excludes from his definition all civilian fatalities that result from strikes on military targets, deeming these casualties to be unintended collateral damage. This, too, involves conceptual stretching, this time of col-lateral damage. When a strategy ostensibly directed at military targets gen-erates tens of thousands of noncombatant fatalities, can these deaths still be considered collateral? Excluding these cases also ignores substantial evi-dence that some attackers simply did not make any attempt to distinguish between combatants and noncombatants, did not care that large numbers of civilians were being killed, or sought to capitalize on the fear these deaths created among the enemy population. I argue, therefore, that civilian victimization should include all cases where it can be