s cities. “Whereas Arnold and the airmen rejected the idea” as contrary to the AAF doctrine of precision bombardment, writes Kenneth Werrell, “[President] Roosevelt was delighted by the proposal and ordered his top cabinet of-ficials to work on the project. Certainly, this was a radical shift from the president’s appeal to the warring parties in September 1939 to refrain from bombing civilians.” 21 A mere three weeks before Pearl Harbor, army chief of staff General George C. Marshall held a secret news briefing for seven corre-spondents, the contents of which were leaked to the Japanese. In an attempt to deter a Japanese movement against Southeast Asia, Marshall warned: “If war with the Japanese does come, we’ll fight mercilessly. Flying fortresses will be dispatched immediately to set the paper cities of Japan on fire. There won’t be any hesitation about bombing civilians—it will be all out.” 22 Mar- shall’s remarks—although indicative of U.S. officials’ interest in fire as a weapon against Japan—were likely part of the larger U.S. strategy in 1941 of deterring a Japanese attack by threatening retaliation against Japan with B-17s and B-24s being deployed to the Philippines. Nor did the potential for fire attacks on Japan escape analysts outside of government. An article that appeared in Harper’s magazine in 1942 com- pared the flammability of several major Japanese cities, concluding that Osaka, Kobe, and Kyoto offered the most promising targets for American incendiaries. According to the authors, “In a really congested neighborhood, crowded with buildings from the bank of one canal to the next, with only shoulder-width runway between, the chance of the [incendiary] bomb start-ing an immediate fire is just about as good as if it fell into a full waste-paper basket.” Although the authors drastically underestimated the number of incendiaries needed to start uncontrollable fires, suggesting that only five bombers could burn Osaka, three Kyoto, and two Kobe, they maint