their origin within liberal thought and endorses Kant’s view that liberal democracies must “maintain . . . a scrupulous respect for the  laws of war.” 46 A contrasting perspective on democracy rooted in institutions, however, implies that democracies should be more likely to inflict civilian victim-ization on their foes. The logic is simple: as wars become protracted and the costs of fighting increase, public support tends to decline. 47 Knowing this, democratic elites labor to keep casualties down and maintain public backing for the war effort, which may produce civilian victimization as a means to manage costs. Moreover, because losing a war—or even fighting to a protracted draw—threatens leaders’ tenure in office, democratic execu-tives have incentives to fight hard and make sure they win. “Fighting hard” could be interpreted to include civilian victimization. 48 The threat of removal for losing a war also gives democrats incentives to pick easier fights in the first place. This implies that democratic war initiators should be less likely to victimize noncombatants because these conflicts are unlikely to become wars of attrition. 49 Autocracies, by contrast, are less vulnerable to either of these forces because leaders in such regimes are not subject to public recall. Problems with Regime-Type Arguments Several problems confront either version of the regime-type argument. First, it is unclear if democracies actually externalize their domestic norms. Liberal democracies, for example, are supposed to go to war for “liberal” EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 11 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [23]reasons only—that is, in self-defense or to prevent human rights abuses. Yet liberal states routinely attacked and subjugated African and Asian tribes in the nineteenth century for reasons not remotely connected to securi