le: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 15 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [27]originate in the fit between a particular means of warfare and the collec- tive beliefs of the military services that deploy the means in question. . . . States will prefer mutual restraint in a particular mode of force if it is antithetical to the war-fighting culture of their military bureaucracy. States will favor escala-tion when the organizational cultures of their military bureaucracies are compatible with use.” 72 This hypothesis, although formulated as a general proposition regarding militaries’ willingness to escalate, can be recast more narrowly in terms of noncombatant immunity: states will target enemy civilians if the cultures of their militaries embrace strategies predicated on defeating an adversary by punishing its civilian population. States will observe noncombatant im-munity and kill relatively few civilians when they have military cultures that favor counterforce targeting. Legro, for example, argues that the culture of land power in the German armed forces explains why the Luftwaffe gener - ally refrained from bombing civilians early in World War II. Britain, on the other hand, ultimately adopted punishment bombing of German noncomba-tants owing to the culture of area bombing that developed in the RAF during the interwar period. 73 Others argue that the culture of the German Army in the Wilhelmine period—in particular its obsession with battles of annihila-tion and total victory—could generate fearful violence against noncomba-tants in order to achieve the absolute triumph of force the army’s culture demanded. When a quick and total victory eluded the kaiser’s soldiers—as it did in Southwest Africa in 1904—the relentless pursuit of the enemy in an attempt to achieve total conquest resulted in the near extermination of the Herero people. 74 Parochial Organizational Interests Arguments based in parochial organizational interests, by contrast, argue that