ubject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 27 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [39]more or less effective than fighting conventionally—79 versus 83 percent— but it still works in four out of every five cases. Against guerrillas, however, civilian victimization wins somewhat more often than conventional ap-proaches, 71 to 60 percent. 114 Finally, in interstate wars, states that target civil- ians win 62 percent of their wars as opposed to 42 percent of states that use exclusively countermilitary strategies. This relationship holds—although not as strongly—in wars of attrition, where the figures are 61 versus 44 percent. 115 These correlations, of course, do not prove that civilian victimization was a cause of victory. However, if civilian victimization were as ineffective as some critics maintain, there should be some evidence that states that target civil-ians lose in the majority of cases. Instead, the evidence indicates precisely the opposite: targeting civilians seems to be at least as effective—and sometimes more effective—than conventional strategies. 116 A key point to remember, finally, is that civilian victimization is often driven by perceived strategic necessity: leaders may see themselves as hav-ing little choice but to target noncombatants if they wish to prevail at a price they can afford, avoid defeat, or annex desired territory. Leaders, therefore, need not be certain that civilian victimization will succeed; they merely need to believe that it might lower their costs of fighting, contribute to vic-tory (or stave off defeat), or consolidate their hold over territory. If civilian victimization offers a chance of reversing a grim situation, or delivering a state’s goals at a cost it can afford to pay, leaders may take that chance rather than abandon their goals. Civilian victimization is thus a calculated risk, not an irrational gamble. Table 1.2. Civilian victimization and victory  Percentage