ng Grounds in Utah from May to September 1943, which proved its ability to start numerous fires. 32 A second study of the potential of bombing in Japan performed by the Committee of Operations Analysts (COA)—a separate group of (mainly ci-vilian) planners assembled by Arnold—in November 1943 largely echoed the conclusions of the Air Staff. The COA report, entitled “Economic Ob-jectives in the Far East,” listed six important target systems in Japan, one of which was urban industrial areas. According to Ronald Schaffer, “The committee believed that a series of massive firebomb attacks on urban areas would produce a major disaster for Japan.” Not only would incendiary raids devastate Japanese war production by burning out workshops based in homes, they would also “dislocate war workers” “through death, injury, and destruction of homes.” 33 General Arnold endorsed the principle of area attacks in his plan for an air campaign against Japan that he presented to the president in February 1944. The plan emphasized the ease of starting “uncontrollable conflagra-tions” in Japanese cities, as did the JCS when it approved the COA’s report two months later. 34 That attacks on urban areas were explicitly designed to kill civilians is confirmed by a JCS document from April 1944 that listed “the absorption of man hours in repair and relief [and] the dislocation of labor by casualty” as among the intended effects of incendiary raids. As Searle notes, “the JCS in 1944, like the Air Staff in 1943, wanted to use civilian casualties as a means of cutting Japanese industrial production.” 35 The following September, a report by a subcommittee of the COA (the Joint Incendiary Committee) explicitly estimated that “full-scale [incendi-ary] attacks on six large urban areas” would kill or wound approximately 560,000 Japanese and succeed in “dehousing” nearly 8 million workers. 36 The next month, the COA “recommended an incendiary assault on Japan’s cities to come after a precision campaign,” i