tute other goods for those in short supply, and place more land under cultivation. 109 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 26 --- Targeting Civilians in War [38]Judicious use of terror against civilians can pay high military dividends in guerrilla wars: insurgents employ it to coerce civilians into supporting their movement, while incumbents rely on it as a means of counterpersua-sion. The Vietcong, for example, made widespread use of assassination to terrorize rural villagers in South Vietnam. According to Stathis Kalyvas, “In a hamlet they would pick out a couple of people who they said cooper-ated with the United States, and shoot them, to set an example. Apparently, this worked.” Similarly, the Phoenix Program instituted by U.S. and South Vietnamese forces “appears to have been quite effective in getting South Vietnamese peasants to minimize their collaboration with the Vietcong after 1971.” 110 But even indiscriminate violence—such as forced concentration or mass killing intended to reduce guerrillas’ ability to fight by cutting them off from the civilian population—has succeeded in several wars. Indiscrim-inate violence can succeed against smaller populations and land areas—such as the Second Anglo-Boer War, the U.S.–Filipino War, the Second Italo- Sanusi War—because the government is able to target the entire population, preventing it from providing any material support to the rebels. 111 Such strategies tend to backfire when states are unable to exert physical control over the territory or population in question, as the Germans could not do in the Soviet Union or the Balkans during World War II. 112 Many states have successfully expanded their territory (or that of an ally) by targeting enemy civilians in wars of conquest. Just looking at interstate wars, for example, Russia assisted in the creation of a Bulgarian state by kil