nterinsurgency strategies use civilian vic-timization to sever the link between the guerrillas and the populace by one EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 19 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [31]of two means: deter people from helping the insurgents, or physically pre- vent such support by removing the population from areas where guerrillas operate. The deterrence tactic employs murders and massacres of known or suspected insurgent supporters to frighten those left alive. The interdiction method, by contrast, concentrates people under government control or sim-ply kills them, rendering them unable to support the guerrillas. Desperation to Win. When wars become protracted with little chance of victory on the immediate horizon, belligerents are more likely to employ ci-vilian victimization out of desperation to win the war. In an anarchic world, states are concerned with survival. While the consequences of defeat in war are not always catastrophic, at the very least defeat can endanger the state’s power position or reputation, leaving it vulnerable to future predation or challenges by its neighbors. In wars of attrition, moreover, the consequences of losing may be severe, including the loss of significant amounts of terri-tory, national independence, or even enslavement or genocide. The perils of defeat, therefore, make decision-makers desperate to win and may cause leaders to target civilians. A classic case of desperation to win occurred in the latter days of World War I. Despite increasing pressures from the admirals of the High Seas Fleet, both Chancellor Theobald von Bethmann-Hollweg and Kaiser Wilhelm II had steadfastly rejected launching a campaign of unlimited submarine war-fare against British commerce with German U-boats. Such a strategy, they believed, ran too great a risk of provoking the United States to e