rated a continuing desire to impress distinctions on the Allies which would prevent a heavy assault on German cities.” Hitler further hoped to convince Britain to make peace after the fall of France and hoped that “the possession of intact cities might make the British feel that they had more to gain by peace.” 140 Hitler’s early war directives also show a clear desire to keep German bombers away from British cities. Directive No. 1 for the Conduct of the EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 61 --- Targeting Civilians in War [146]War, issued on August 31, 1939, prohibited air attacks on the British main- land.141 War Directive No. 9, published on November 29, called for the de- struction of the British war economy, but limited air operations to attacks on shipping until Germany acquired bases closer to England.142 OKW, the military high command, similarly ordered that air operations against Brit-ain should not be escalated until Germany was in possession of the channel coast. 143 Only on May 24, 1940 (in Directive No. 13), did Hitler authorize attacks on military targets in Britain itself.144 Hitler’s reluctance to bomb Britain, while largely explained by deterrence and his desire to reach an accommodation with the British, also stemmed from his belief that airpower had a limited ability to achieve political goals on its own. The Führer, for example, told his service chiefs that “a country could not ‘be brought to defeat by an air force,’ ” and predicted that a war with Britain would be long and difficult. 145 Surprisingly, Luftwaffe generals agreed with Hitler. A Luftwaffe study at the time of the Munich Crisis in 1938 argued that the German Air Force could achieve little in a potential war against England and that to fight with the resources then at its disposal appeared “fruitless.” 146 Another study from 1939 accurately predicted t