his superiors thought would be most effective: firebombing. LeMay knew of the many studies performed inside the AAF on the efficacy of incendiary attack against Japan, and had received multi-ple suggestions and requests from Washington to experiment with starting fires. Although no direct orders from Arnold or Norstad were forthcoming, it was clear which way the wind was blowing. LeMay’s contribution was that he put together all the pieces that made it possible to burn large urban areas, not that he came up with the idea in the first place. The second factor that motivated LeMay to become a fire starter was his belief that by torching Japanese cities, air power could induce Japan to sur-render before an invasion, thus shortening the war and saving countless lives. Norstad briefed LeMay on the “Saipan ratio” when LeMay replaced Hansell as commander of Twenty-first Bomber Command in January 1945, warning his subordinate: “If you don’t get results it will mean eventually a mass amphibious invasion of Japan, to cost probably half a million more American lives.” As LeMay later put it, “Our whole goal was to try to end the war before the invasion. We were not going to be able to do it continuing on like we were, given the weather and the problem of high-altitude visual bombing. We just didn’t have enough airplanes and enough time. So we had to do something radical. We had always been thinking about incendi-ary attacks against the vulnerable Japanese cities.” 75 The stated rationale for the firebombing (at least initially) was not the classic punishment logic of crushing civilian morale, but rather to inflict maximum damage on Japanese war production. Indeed, the orders for the first Tokyo fire raid bear out this rationale: “Employment at scores of war plants throughout Tokyo and environs would be directly affected by casual-ties, movement of workers out of the area, use of manpower in reconstruc-tion, and probably lowered worker morale.” 76 As Thomas Searle observes, “Cas