er, going so far as to sack General Haywood Han-sell and replace him with General Curtis LeMay as commander of B-29s in  January 1945. LeMay, too, was told he was expendable if he did not prove the worth of airpower. LeMay’s shift to firebombing in March 1945, accord- ing to this account, was motivated primarily by his desire to keep his job, which was in jeopardy owing to Arnold’s wish to prove that airpower could win wars on its own and should therefore constitute an independent service coequal with the army and the navy. Problems with Organizational Arguments One problem shared by both versions of these organization theory argu- ments is that they apply to the era of professionalized military bureaucra-cies, which began to emerge in Europe only in the mid-to-late nineteenth century. Civilian victimization, however, has existed since the beginning of recorded history. The contribution of organizational arguments, therefore, is limited to the relatively recent past. Similarly, arguments that focus on mili-tary organizations as the key actors fail to explain how militaries get their preferences implemented as state policy when there is civilian control of the military. Civilian policymakers ultimately make the decisions, and they are not affected by the dynamics of military cultures or interservice rivalries. Accounts featuring organizational culture amply demonstrate that the preconceived assumptions and ideas regarding the appropriate way to fight that permeate military organizations affect the doctrine these orga-nizations develop to wage wars and even how militaries choose to fight in the early stages of armed conflicts. Still, cultural arguments are plagued by two significant weaknesses. First, as an empirical fact, few states plan to implement policies of civilian victimization before wars break out, and even fewer military organizations formulate such strategies in peacetime. Excep-tions, of course, exist. The development of an area bombing doctrine in the in