in individual cases reasoning and behaving in ways that the causal logic of the theory predicts. Investigat-ing these causal logics is the strength of qualitative methods, particularly process tracing: demonstrating that as leaders’ perceptions of the costs of fighting rise or their estimates of the likelihood of victory fall, they choose to adopt less discriminate means of combat or deliberately target civilians. The two methods, therefore, complement each other, and strengthen the inferences that may be drawn from the evidence presented. Within the qualitative section of this book, the criteria I used to select cases for closer examination allow me to make relatively strong claims about causality. First, I chose cases that contained variation on the primary EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 29 --- Defining and Explaining Civilian Victimization [41]independent variables: regime type, identity, organizational culture and interests, desperation, and annexationist war aims. Because it is not pos- sible to obtain variation on all of these variables in a single case, I selected several in order to be able to make comparisons across cases. Some cases, for example, pit a democracy against a nondemocracy. Others pit two bel-ligerents that share a similar cultural code whereas in a third group of cases,  two belligerents who view each other as barbarians square off. There are also cases in which desperation and the desire to annex territory vary. My arguments are strengthened to the extent that similar behaviors emerge across regime types and different views of the adversary’s identity, and variation in behavior accords with variation in desperation and annexation-ist war aims. 117 Second, although I placed a high priority on covering the four main forms of civilian victimization—bombing, blockade/siege, counterinsurgency, and cleansing—sel