he Japanese would require an invasion of the home islands, and that this invasion could cost tens of EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 51 --- Targeting Civilians in War [136]thousands—if not hundreds of thousands—of American lives. Knowledge of the wood and paper construction of Japan’s cities and their vulnerability to fire also spawned planning inside the AAF for an incendiary campaign. All of the pieces were in place for massive civilian victimization against Japan, which air planners had already recommended to begin in March 1945. The trigger was the defensive advantage in the Far East that made precision bombing costly and ineffective. Alternative Explanations Public Opinion and Electoral Accountability. Most Americans abhorred bombing civilians before the war, and lurid press descriptions of such at-tacks by Axis countries provoked widespread outrage. But Germany’s inva-sion of Western Europe in spring 1940 helped spark a dramatic reversal in opinion on the subject. “By the time America entered World War II,” writes historian George Hopkins, “public opinion had already solidified in favor of bombing Germany and Japan.” 83 Some people felt that the military was overly timid in taking the war to the enemy civilian population.84 “Even if Americans had known the exact results of bombing, it would not have made much difference,” argues Conrad Crane. “Most families had expe-rienced the deaths of loved ones, friends, or neighbors; if bombing enemy civilians would speed victory and save American lives, it had to be done.” 85 In sum, according to John Dower, American airmen need not have worried about public censure for their actions: Although Allied military planners remained sensitive to the moral issue of bombing civilians (and to the possibility that reliance on obliteration bomb-ing might provoke a public reaction detrimental to t