ourse, was made possible by the Luftwaffe’s unsustainable daylight bomber losses over Britain, which forced the Germans to begin bombing at night. With Hitler now in the mood for reprisals, the Luftwaffe turned to round-the-clock bombing of military targets in London. The Bombers Head for London. The new attacks commenced on September 7 with a strike on the docklands in London. For all of Hitler’s bloodthirsty rhetoric about killing British civilians, the main objective of Luftwaffe at-tacks on London at this point was still to destroy the RAF, not terrorize the populace. Many civilians were indeed killed—1,000 on the night of  September 7, 412 on September 8, 370 on September 9—but undermining morale was only a secondary goal. 165 General Albert Kesselring, commander of Luftflotte 2, “pressed for an all-out attack on the capital. Apart from its value as a target, chances were good that London’s morale might crack.”166 Kesselring and others recommended attacks on residential neighborhoods, but Hitler would not allow it. Hitler rejected the intentional targeting of resi-dential areas suggested to him by Luftwaffe chief of staff Hans Jeschonnek on September 14, for example, ordering that “although the target area has been extended, air raids on London will continue to be directed primarily against installations of military importance and vital facilities in the city, in-cluding train stations. Terror raids on purely residential areas should only be a last resort to exert pressure and, therefore, should not be used at this time.” 167 The will of the populace might indeed break, but it would do so as a result of strikes on military targets, not from the all-out slaughter of civilians. The German air fleets flying against Britain numbered 1,524 operational aircraft (772 of them bombers) on September 7, compared to 746 serviceable Hurricanes and Spitfires for Fighter Command.168 Deceived by their own inflated kill estimates, however, Luftwaffe leaders convinced themselves