re President Johnson exercised strict control over military operations, particularly the Rolling Thunder bombing campaign against North Vietnam. FDR rarely intervened in the air war, and certainly did not prescribe or proscribe particular targets. As Sherry puts it, “The machinery was in place; Roosevelt was largely content to let it turn.” Ar-nold kept him apprised of developments in the bombing campaigns, how-ever, and FDR voiced no objections when informed of incendiary attacks on Japan. 67 The slow and bitter progress of U.S. forces in the Pacific was a key fac- tor in convincing President Roosevelt to support a campaign of incendiary bombing in the “hope . . . that air power would help defeat Japan with-out an invasion.” Although his desire to deter a Japanese attack spurred  Roosevelt’s interest in firebombing before the war, and the political need to assist China explains the president’s keenness to deploy B-29s to the Far East, it was the possibility that an intense aerial assault on Japan might bring about an early surrender and save American lives that best explains  Roosevelt’s support for bombing. FDR wanted to avoid a Pacific campaign that moved “forward inch by inch, island by island” and “would take about fifty years before we got to Japan.” In August 1943, for example, the presi- dent cited the precedent of the recent RAF attack on Hamburg to his mili-tary advisers, suggesting that “we can use Siberian air fields . . . to attack the heart of Japan in a manner that she will find it hard to endure.” 68 Given the context, presumably that manner was to start uncontrollable conflagrations in Japanese cities. Overall, FDR’s few comments on the subject indicate an impatient commander-in-chief willing to support incendiary bombing be-cause it might circumvent a slow, bloody slog across the Pacific. Arnold. Even though the air force was technically part of the army, in practice it was highly autonomous, and Arnold basically had a free hand when it came to tar