ot unfold as planned, and the bel-ligerents’ strategies for prevailing quickly and cheaply are foiled. The war bogs down into siegelike operations, trench warfare, and costly battles of at-trition. Alternatively, suppose a country is attacked by a rival, and owing to the geographic or military circumstances realizes that the war is going to be EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:06 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 18 --- Targeting Civilians in War [30]a difficult and costly slog. Battlefield stalemates like these—or the knowl- edge early on that there is no easy way to prevail—give rise to two mecha-nisms that can trigger civilian victimization. First, such deadlocks induce desperation to win: belligerents will use any means that has the potential to pull victory from the jaws of defeat. Second, the costs of fighting generated by wars of attrition cause desperation to save lives and lead to targeting of noncombatants as a cost-reduction strategy that allows a state to continue prosecuting the war at an acceptable price in casualties. 78 In protracted wars of attrition, civilian victimization is a form of coercion, that is, the attempt to influence an adversary’s behavior by manipulating costs and benefits. Specifically, civilian victimization inflicts costs on non-combatants to coerce a government or rebel organization to cease fighting. Traditionally, scholars have equated inflicting pain on noncombatants with punishment. Punishment is a coercive strategy that erodes the adversary’s will to fight, either by convincing the government that the civilian costs outweigh the benefits of resistance, or by turning the civilians themselves against the war and hoping that they will pressure the government to end the war. The logic of punishment is clearly reflected in Lord Cherwell’s “de-housing” memo, which became the basis for British urban area bombing during World War II. Ch