slow, bloody slog across the Pacific. Arnold. Even though the air force was technically part of the army, in practice it was highly autonomous, and Arnold basically had a free hand when it came to targeting. The president, the Joint Chiefs, and the army chief of staff, George Marshall, exercised little oversight of bombing policy. The command arrangements in the Pacific increased this independence even further because unlike the Atlantic, there was no overall theater com-mander, and Arnold himself ran the Twentieth Air Force from Washington. Historians disagree regarding the extent of Arnold’s control over bomber operations in the Pacific. Some argue that he and his deputies kept a tight rein on the subordinate commands whereas others maintain that control from Washington was tenuous, especially after Arnold suffered another heart attack in January 1945. Whichever one of these views one accepts, Arnold’s command style in the case of incendiary weapons was indirect. Given the failure of precision bombing, he was loath to stick his neck out and order a change to firebombing in case it, too, failed. He and Norstad thus poked and prodded LeMay to firebomb but did not order it directly. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 10:05 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 48 --- Strategic Bombing in World War II [133]Although officially Arnold adhered to the jointly agreed policy that an invasion of Japan’s industrial heartland would be necessary to end the war, privately he never abandoned the hope and belief that airpower could con-vince the Japanese to surrender and obviate a costly invasion. In April 1945, for example, Arnold wrote to Barney Giles, his chief of air staff, “In my opinion we can bring Japan to her knees by B-29 bombing before the ground troops or the Navy ever land on the shores of the main island of Japan.” The next month Arnold told LeMay that “combined with mining the