o was one ) when matters turned out so, have been willing to conduct surgical operations on the individuals for the sake of the superior system. In this respect radicalism and reaction have often come to terms, while liberalism, with its less obvious logic, stood embarrassed and aghast. One of the wisest of modern liberals, L. T. Hobhouse, put his finger on this particular risk of social planning when he wrote: "Social and political institutions are not ends in themselves. . Any organised society may set before itself and may achieve ends which would be impracticable for its members if unorganised and perhaps would not appeal to them (e.g. national defence). But these must be ends which do appeal to the members of the com- munity as members, and do further the fulfilment of their powers as men and women and the happiness of their lives." 11 Their powers as men and women-not as cogs in a machine nor as cells 11. Hobhouse, L. T., Elements of Social Justice, pp. 13, 28. THE CLASSICAL FOUNDATIONS 38 of some superorganism. The distinction is fundamental. Liberal- ism of whatever type or period has its hallmark in the fact that it takes the actual living person, the concrete human being, both as starting point and final criterion. To this extent an optimistic view of human nature is inherent in the liberal tradition; and while, so far, it does not commit one to the dogmas of either in- dividualism or anarchism, it does distinguish liberalism from all mechanistic, deterministic, or transcendental systems. While of course liberalism does not reject a priori the notions of restraint or even coercion, it steadfastly insists that the latter be the excep- tional remedy for the exceptional case, and always puts the burden of proof on the would-be restrainer. To the proponents of every collective end, be it national or imperial, be it cult or crusade, liber- alism puts the question, Just what does this mean in the actual lives of these actual people? In what ways is the general g