esemblance to that "objective world of science" which 2. Whitehead, A. N., Introduction to Mathematics, chap. ix.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 182 the seventeenth century so confidently set out to explore. Far from being the same world, we cannot even be certain that it is the same sort of world. The supposition that what cannot somehow be measured does not truly exist never had much encouragement from the great scientists; today very few would maintain that the concepts of number, quantity, time, and space are enough to de scribe more than a little of the universe in which we live. In so far as the idea of number implies the discreteness of things, there are too many entities it can never encompass: cases in which no sort of an aggregate of discrete elements will give us the whole that we know. Such was the case, in fact, of the atomic theory of physics ap- plied (or misapplied) as an explanation of "matter." For so long as matter was supposed to consist of material particles, then how ever small you made your particles, the problem was confronting you just as solidly at the end of the analysis as at the beginning Such was the case with those psychologists who set out to scribe the psyche as an aggregation of sensations, stimuli, or in- o de stincts; who, when Gestalt psychology insisted on looking at the forest as well as the trees, complained that it was not really scien- tific. Such was the case, above all, with the atomic theory society that corresponded to the atomic theory of matter. No im- of portant truth about society could ever be arrived at by represent- ing it as a mere summation of individual units; for the only aspect of the units that permits one to apply an aggregative process. namely, their spatial discreteness, is precisely that which ignores all characteristics that make them human individuals. The felicifi calculus that was expressed in Bentham's "greatest happiness of the greatest number" is the world's prize example of the arith metic fallacy. Under