ned agent of the world's conversion. The text of Isaiah, "Surely the Isles will wait for me, and the ships of Tarshish first, to bring my sons from far," evidently referred "not to the British Isles, nor any other isles near the continent of Europe," but to America. The advent of Joseph, who was born of the younger sis- ter, separated from his brethren, and saved the world from famine; the healing of Hezekiah, when the sun went from west to east and the Lord prophesied great things for his church; together with many another portent and parallel passage, clearly foretold the high destiny of the new world. The course of latter day events, 5. Beard, C. A., and M. R., Rise of American Civilization, II, 371-372.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 174 laid open to the eye of faith, showed further confirmation. "Whereas till of late, the world was supplied with its silver and gold and earthly treasures from the old continent and now is sun plied chiefly from the new, so the course of things in spiritual respects will be in like manner turned . . . and if we may sup- pose that this glorious work of God shall begin in any part of America, I think if we consider the circumstances of the settle. ment of New England, it must needs appear the most likely of all the American colonies to be the place whence the work shall principally take its rise." Edwards was neither the first nor the last to recognize the moral mission of America. A full century before he penned his medita- tions, the spiritual apathy of the English had drawn the censure of devout colonists. Says Roger Williams (ca. 1640): The very Indian boys can give To many stars their name, And know their course, and therein do Excel the English tame. The enactment of the Constitution was widely interpreted proof of the divine favor specially reserved for God's own country- as and appreciation still abounds in clubs and places where they sing Beneath the Constitution's shade, A boon and shield of priceless worth, We stand erect and una