n of ownership from active control opens the way toward fuller representation of third parties; and liberalism would develop this possibility in preference, as a rule, to the method of expropriation, which is either very coercive or very expensive. Liberal policy frankly recognizes that a free economic system will at any given time contain considerable in- equities, which it seeks to correct by regulatory action; but it also recognizes that the chance of pure profit is precisely what society offers as a return for that degree of risk bearing, initiative, and en- terprise which it demands and expects of its members. The liberal would rather put up with the inequities and the ceaseless effort to correct them than take a chance on a more regimented system involving perhaps more symmetry but certainly more coercion In taking this stand the liberal is not thinking solely of the abun- dance of material goods. Mr. Elliot Dodds, one of the leading spokesmen of British liberalism, thus states the modern position: Personality cannot be fully realized except in community. The Liberal ideal is not a concourse of atoms, each concerned simply with its own advantage, but the commonwealth of self-respecting, self-directing citi- zens, in which the stronger accept their responsibility toward the weaker, and all cooperate for the general good. Cooperation, however, to be real must be spontaneous. The spirit of fellowship cannot be en- forced. Interdependence must be based on independence.4 ยง 4 THIS statement, and others like it in the official program of British liberalism, indicate the basic liberal position that the values of free personality rank ahead of those of economics. But in application this position raises certain special problems. While these cannot be fully treated in a general work, we shall endeavor to indicate what they are. The first concerns the fate of the "small man." Liberalism, in con- trast to collectivism but in common with the Catholic Church, has a special i