ich its material connection with a doomed world of thrones and dominations was to be severed, that it might live and grow beyond all expectation on a plane more suited to the needs of an era not yet in sight. Newman's own com- patriot Manning-so much more powerful for so short a time !- could not see that either; and would hardly have liked the prospect if he could. Far more important-and Pius knew it-was the ideological struggle; and if he saw it only in black and white, there were plenty on the other side who saw it that way too. Then as now there were liberals who thought it their duty to wage war not only on the Church but on everything it stood for. They had not had time to discover that the weapons of science and sociology were double edged (Mr. H. G. Wells has not even yet had time). In the major issue, the political doctrine and practice of the French Republic were not neutral; and the famous Syllabus, aimed especially at France, was the outcome of fifteen years' cogitation in which Frenchmen had played a leading part. In it Pius took over the 18. "Encyclopaedias," Encyclopaedia Britannica ( 1940).  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 150 absolutist thesis that nothing should come between the state and the individual, and categorically substituted Church for state Against the atomic theory of society he advanced the arg argument- which Charles Maurras was later to appropriate to the cause of monarchy-"that authority is something different from numbers and the sum of material forces." He or his advisers saw that to make the individual as such the datum for social polity is to ex- clude from the reckoning all the values that make society safe or decent; and in a curiously appealing voice he asked (in Quanto Cura), "Who does not see that human society, loosed from the chains of religion and true justice, can have no other aim than that of acquiring and heaping up wealth, and can follow no other law save the desire of serving personal pleasures and interests?" If you take awa