Spencer is acutely aware in his later work of the conflict between voluntary and coercive cooperation. He opposes not only Hobbes and Austin, but Bentham, in asserting the priority of individual rights to collective authority. He thus comes round to a defense of the traditional natural right (Naturrecht) basis of political theory. 4. Niebuhr, R., "A Faith for History's Greatest Crisis," Fortune, July, 1942. 5. The Man Versus the State ( 1940 American ed.), pp. 19, 21, 209; see also Preface by Albert Jay Nock. THE POSITIVIST ATTACK But Spencer's conception of the human being as all of a piece with other products of biological evolution let him down in the 209 wd. In his old age he was not so sure that the cosmic processes which had hitherto been on the side of humanity might not, in come later turn of the cycle, be against it. To stake one's all on she sort of nature nineteenth-century science had revealed was In take an awful gamble; there are pages in Spencer that are curi- ously prescient of the coming horror. Having no other ground for "Spencer stuck stoutly to his evolutionary hypothesis; but et from that hypothesis the optimism be removed, what is left? Nothing, alas, but the notion of an ineluctable process to which neither goal nor meaning can be assigned. Then determinism comes into its own. ยง 4 It is hardly necessary nowadays to argue seriously about the common forms of determinism. Modern science and philosophy have knocked away the flimsy scaffolding of such views; and in any case, determinism is not, and never was, a working philosophy of life. One can conceivably die by it; no one ever consistently lived by it. If people would reflect more simply and sincerely on their actual experience of living they would be less vulnerable to a great deal of academic nonsense, and philosophy would be the gainer. In essence determinism is one of those theories which, as Professor Broad said of behaviorism, "are so preposterously silly that only very learned men could