. Now anyone who dis- cerns that kind of a law in history will have to be very nimble to avoid running into some sort of determinism; it may be optimistic determinism, but it will amount to a denial of freedom nonetheless. And Comte's followers, as we shall see, though some an of them ran very fast, were not able to avoid the trap. So far as Comte himself avoided it, it was owing to the schizoid character of his personality rather than the logic of his thought. He was highly emotional and inhibited person, naturally responsive to a much wider range of experience than his intellectual system al lowed for. He left, for instance, a significant record of how his passionate but platonic love for a much younger woman led him. after her death, through what was almost avowedly a cult of re- ligious adoration, to a retrospective appreciation of his own mother. He knew, and could not get away from, the power and the necessity of a religious apprehension; but since his system con- demned all historic forms of religion, he went ahead and invented a new one, complete with a priesthood, ritual, hymns, sermons. sacraments, and saints' days. He worked very hard at perfecting it and making converts-it was eventually to be the only per- mitted form of religion in the new society; and toward the end of the Victorian era, earnest intellectuals would gather in dreary lecture halls surrounded with plaster busts and aspidistras, trying to breathe a little life into the "Great Being," hypostatized Hu- manity. ยง 2 MR. H. G. WELLS, the best-known of Comte's modern disciples, has followed his example in this as well as other respects. Since Mr. THE POSITIVIST ATTACK Wells boldly proclaimed himself an atheist at the mature age of cfteen, he has written more pages about God and religion than 203 almost any living theologian. If he now repeats a youthful ges- tre by spitting like an elderly gamin in the face of Mother church, the passing generation will nonetheless remember how his magnificent z