ed in the ex- tension of cooperative community must stop talking about peace. since all they really stand for is the status quo. 6 The great communities called nations did not develop through a coming together of gilds, corporations, domains, or other closed units; they arose from a partial dissolution of such units, a gen- eral opening up. Where such units were allowed- dr as in eighteenth- century France-to form a sort of association for mutual protec- tion, the result was not a wider type of community but an explo- sion. In the more fortunate cases, the active life of a growing society passed them by, flowed all around them, and as it were dis solved what stood in the way; though, as in England, a good deal that was decorative, traditional, and useful survived. So we may not expect very much in the way of expanding community from an association of nations and representatives of nations: least of all when they are responsible to, and sometimes dismissible by, a public opinion manipulated by a yellow press. At best, the national interests as such are amenable only to a glorified kind of horse trading, because their spokesmen are forbidden, by the very na- ture of the case, to treat the interests of alien groups as on an absolute equality with their own; that is not what they are there for, and it is emphatically not what they are trained for. That is no reproach to the national constituencies or their representatives; it merely indicates that the creation of a wider community must rely, in the main, on other than politico-national agencies. Such THE PEACE-BY-FORCE ILLUSION 251 agencies have, for all liberal purposes, passed the zenith of their Sefulness, and the mentality they engender now stands in the way. Americans have recognized this in the case of certain South American states; but the truth of it is not limited to the Chaco. Few things were intrinsically funnier, in recent months, than the abortive effort to organize planetary aviation by means of a congerie