ain resorted to, as a desperate final endeavor, in de- spite of the antidumping laws of this and other nations: 34 cents a bushel on wheat at this writing, 4 cents a pound on cotton-with Brazil still underselling the American South. The longer this busi- ness is persisted in the higher will be the costs of it and the more permanent the loss of markets. There is always a farm problem. The primary producer has to bear the brunt not only of fluctuations in general demand but of uncontrollable fluctuations in his particular field of supply. Those long-term shifts in the world balance caused by biological and technological changes also come home to him; and so do the more avoidable shifts of national trade and tariff policy. His toughest problems have always arisen as the sequel to wars. There is there- fore a strong case, recognized in other sections of the Wallace program, for measures that increase the resilience, adaptability, and staying power of farm credit and marketing organizations. But such measures defeat their own purpose when they seek to isolate the agricultural economy from the long-run influences that determine the allocation of productive resources. American policy would have been more beneficial had it stuck to its announced aim of agricultural adjustment, without seeking to counteract the phe- nomena that indicate the necessity and the scope of the adjust- ment. American policy, like that of Britain and other countries, is rightly concerned to preserve agriculture as a way of life, and not merely for economic reasons. With this aim liberalism has a pro- found sympathy; but liberalism does not consider the aim well 2 served by severance from economic realities and permanent de- pendence on state action. State action, based on justice, is in order to relieve agriculture of special disabilities insofar as it can do so. In Britain these mainly arise from landlordism; and the claims of landlords are therefore subject to special scrutiny and, if neces- sary,