anything that can be accepted as a verdict of impartial justice can issue is a question on which the Department's mode of procedure throws little light. The De- partment, by its own frank statements, has raised issues of general Policy and national concern. It has stepped into the arena of po- Htical and economic controversy where plain citizens may freely make rejoinder; and one would suppose that Congressional inves- tigation and debate would play a decisive role. ยง 6 CERTAIN main lines of official policy can however be now dis- cerned; and they are such as to call for thoughtful and dispassion- ote consideration. The claim that national policies must in all cir- mumstances override economic interest, domestic or international, is a very old one: it is the basis of all economic nationalism. We may wonder where civilization would have been had it always suc- needed; but it has always a certain short-run popularity and plausibility. In application to the present international situation, here is what it leads to in the official hands of Mr. Berge: There is a further step we can take. The research which has been de- veloped in Germany during the past ten years under the Nazi regime ke research which in right belongs to the people of the United Nations. 14. The New York Times, January 19, 1945.  270 THE LIBERAL TRADITION . . . It should not be considered as belonging to private hands either in Germany or elsewhere. The United Nations should make sure that steps are taken to make available this research so that it can be used generally.15 The policy of retroactive confiscation and the spirit that under- lies it may or may not find warrant when, in succeeding decades. historians examine the evidence on the responsibility for this war as they did in the case of the former one. Without exception, in that case, they discovered no monopoly of responsibility. But what- ever warrant they may find, retroactive confiscation, like current confiscation of sequestrated property, is