ave manifested a certain antipathy toward "college pro- fessors" in Washington. This does not imply any real dislike of college professors; on the contrary, they are among the favorite pets of well-to-do homes; it means only that the businessmen con- sider that "college professors" do not know what they are talking about. This again is quite a delusion. The college professors do know what they are talking about; but it is frequently a different universe of discourse from that in which businessmen have to shoul- der responsibility and make a living. From an other-worldly stand- point, it is no doubt a better world. It is a world of statistical trends and long-run probabilities in which individual businessmen count for no more than college professors do in this one: a very equitable world, in fact. But when policies drawn up in terms of the one world are imposed by force of law on the other, then the business- men have the right to a hearing. They too have their policies, which are equally open to criticism. Practical wisdom lies not in the compromise, but in the synthesis. If Plato and-shall we say, Atticus? or Trimalchio ?- could have agreed on a four-year plan, something would have come of it; but in that event, coercion would hardly have been necessary. When it comes to coercion, there is this to be said: Any plan honestly propounded by those whose decisions and actions will be directly affected by it is en- titled to more serious consideration than a plan propounded by LIBERALISM IN CRISIS 283 those to whose decisions and actions it will make no immediate practical difference. Of course a plan of the former type is as likely to be biased in favor of the interests of the proponents as a plan of the latter type is likely to ignore them; but if, as in the liberal philosophy, the onus is all against coercion, the rule stands. It will not impress those for whom the men that a free economy has brought to the top are ipso facto selfish, while the leaders of all the rest