re, trade or business, in the conduct or management thereof." The economic power of the workers-what little there was of it-being thus swept away (for the law was pitilessly enforced) there yet remained the protective function of the state itself which, in the form of the Elizabethan system and supplementary acts, was still the law of the land. It was to that that the wage earners repeatedly appealed, particularly in the hearings of 1818 Even today, despite the far more hideous things that modern civilization does to men, women, and children, it is difficult to read their testimony in cold blood. But in the parliamentary de- bate that followed, on the motion to abolish the statutory control of wages and apprenticeship, the doctrinaires had a field day: Mr. Philips: The persons most competent to form regulations with a re- spect to trade were the master manufacturers, whose interest it was to have goods of the best fabric; and no legislative enactment could ever effect so much in producing that result, as the merely leaving thing to their own course and operation. . . . Mr. Hart Davis could not dis guise from himself that the present measure was attended with many difficulties. It would undoubtedly be of great advantage to our manu facturers that the present law should be repealed, and that every straint should be removed from the rising generation. . . . Mr. Gid re- thought if any one measure more than another could be said to in- volve the general rights of mankind, the present was that measure. What was this but the general right of the inhabitants of this country to em- ploy the energies of their mind and body in the way they themselves pleased? . . . Mr. Thompson liked liberty; and doing so, he wished to see every man have the liberty of employing his hands and his genius in the best way he could to his own advantage, and for the benefit of the country.9 Mr. Thompson's position is both significant and familiar. He would have agreed enthusiastically with the majo