t of it will be something less than free personality. In prac- fre, as both Laski and Acton agree, the general will comes down to the rule of a bare majority; and "once we deal with modern problems our real enquiry is still the question of Locke-what limits shall we place upon the power of government?"5 In the light of recent events we can focus that question more sharply: Are there questions of such a nature that simple arithmetical enu- meration fails to give a sufficiently authoritative solution; and if there are ( as the framers of the American Constitution believed), what other or supplementary methods can we apply? We can now see why the theory ( and practice ) of individualism gave so great an impetus to the rise of a monistic and tyrannical form of social organization acting on a very primitive cultural and psychological plane. A type of social control which came to rely more and more on a simple aggregation of supposedly similar individuals could not possibly express much more than the ap- petites and impulses individuals actually have in common, at the level at which they are common; it was naturally bound to become the instrument of those impulses as realized on that level, attach- ing far more importance to the size of the aggregate than to the quality of the collective intention; and those aspects of personal intelligence and aspiration which do not admit of, or rely on, a merely additive process were bound to appear incidental or irrele- vant to the main pattern, discounted from the start by the fact 4. Ibid., I, vi. 5. Laski, H. J., Political Thought from Locke to Bentham, p. 75.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 184 that, arithmetically, they could never muster more than a small minority. Some type of general social control was, admittedly necessary; but its very generality required that its sphere of opera' tions be strictly confined to those of the most elementary char- acter; and in so far as it impinged on the activity of free per- sonality, its influence c