: The pace of social evolution has become so rapid that special groups are ceasing to be permanent and stable enough to organize and main- tain organized complexes of attitudes of their members which corre- spond to their common pursuits. In other words, society is gradually losing all its old machinery for the determination and stabilization of individual characters. If that was true of the era that preceded mass journalism, mass movies, radio, and the cheap car, it is infinitely more significant today; and it is true not only of Polish peasants transported to America, but of all of us. The social effects of applied science. unrestrained by positive factors of community, have been ex- tremely unfavorable to psychological stability, individual or col lective. The habit of reflection, of recollection, of interior tran- quillity, has been eliminated by the insistence of a perpetually changing set of violent stimuli. The accelerating shifts in the ma- terial and social environment have monopolized the common con- sciousness; and even academic education is seized with an ab- surd predilection for the contemporary, out of which no stable system of values can possibly be derived. The effects are most marked, of course, in the case of recent immigrants to America from very different cultures; for it takes more than one or two generations to give much depth of content to the sense of community, and the process cannot be very greatly expedited by indoctrination at the informational level. Least of all can a real rooting be hastened when the new environment is itself gyrating at the tempo of boogie-woogie. But the effect is not confined to the new immigration. The older population also has exhibited a very marked geographical, as well as social, mobility: and since the home and family can no longer be regarded as ef- REINTEGRATION 187 fective agents for the transmittal of value systems, the same spirit- ual rootlessness is increasingly in evidence. A further tendency toward t