ve been better calculated to ensure a resurgence of nationalism. That after all, was the principle on which Woodrow Wilson had essayed to redraw the rest of the map of Europe; and for a moment it seemed as if, in a league of nations, a united Germany might re- gain what she considered her rightful place. No such prospect was open to the Italians. A good deal more thought and study went into the planning of the "corporate state" than is generally recog. nized, and Mussolini's interest in it was genuine-up to a point. That point was probably reached when Il Duce discovered that such a state, if sincerely and completely enacted, would be in- compatible with the Führer-prinzip; and the 1930's seemed to offer such a unique opportunity for the latter that the corporate state became merely another disguise for sacro egoismo. The Italian case, however, was merely an extreme example of what was happening in all the Western communities. E s. Everywhere the move- ment to enlarge the autonomy, and enrich the content, of other forms of group life was overwhelmed by the increasing monism of the political states. We see it in the growing centralization of power in Austria, Czechoslovakia, and Russia; in the government of Germany by decree after 1930; in the British labor law of 1927 REINTEGRATION and the policies of the Tory governments that followed; in the 189 sequel to the Popular Front in France and the NRA in America. It would be interesting if one could relate this recent movement of concentration to the nationalist mystique of a generation earlier; but on the whole, it will bear no such interpretation. The work of Maurras and Barres probably had some influence on modern Cerman nationalism, especially in the more conservative and aris- tocratic circles; but such organizations as the Stahlhelm marched into the National Socialist camp holding their noses, and the Hit- ler following, for all its frantic efforts, produced nothing worthy bo rank with the higher expressions of nat