nents of the Christian opposition to war. His election, of course, does not commit the Fellows to his political position, but furnishes a suggestive contrast to the attitude of most American colleges. Milton is supposed to have planted the famous mulberry tree in the Fellows' garden.  92 THE SECULAR STATE THE LIBERAL TRADITION cared a great deal. In Prussia Frederick the Great could reap the benefits of a consistent skepticism which both the English and the French, for quite different reasons, balked at; the French use skepticism as a weapon, but seldom as a philosophy. England had caught a glimpse of the real issue in the debates of Cromwell's army: and did not like the look of it. "When I do hear men speak," said Colonel Ireton, "of laying aside all engage- ments to consider only that wild or vast notion of what in every man's conception is just or unjust, I am afraid and do tremble at the boundless and endless consequences of it. . . If you do para- mount to all constitutions hold up this law of nature, I would fair have any man show me where you will end." 11 Ireton had good reason to be afraid; for what he understood by "law of nature" was the Protestant theory of private inspiration; and as the his tory of the sects has demonstrated, anarchy is the mildest of the probable consequences. But the English, having glanced at the is- sue, wisely turned away from it. With an amazingly sure instinct they quietly lopped off all extremes that would distract them from their destined creation of national community; and in the end achieved a spirit so strong, and so impalpable, as to reconquer in the twentieth century the ruling class of America. The French faced the issue, and fought it out: to their cost. So long as governments were expected, or allowed, to prescribe the religion of their subjects, it was inevitable that the agencies of religion-of which Rome was by no means the only one should strive for the control of governments. Calvinism and ultra- montanism must th