been done. Why should we let them continue to mate and proliferate spon- taneously, instead of breeding the biologically fittest and steriliz- ing all the rest? It has been attempted. These, and many more of like tenor, are practical questions; and the liberal who does not know the answers is likely to find himself confronted by practical policies whose drift he profoundly distrusts or detests but to whose "expert" proponents he can make no consistent rejoinder. Much of what passes for liberalism in the United States today has already lost its democratic sympathies and is fast losing its humanity, for lack of opponents who really understand the ground of their own objections. The fundamental values of the liberal tradition were in fact exemplified, formulated, and wrought into the texture of Western society by Christianity, not only as a school of thought but as a way of life and feeling: as religion, in short. It is not safe to as- sume that the Christian ethos will persist while the faith and doc- trine that gave it birth are being deliberately abandoned. The logic of thought, the evidence of history, and the testimony of cur- rent events are all opposed to that assumption. 15. Dawson, C., The Judgment of the Nations, p. 123.  IV The Breakdown of Universality 1. The vision of catholic unity. - 2. Two theories of the dissolution. - 3. Recurrent primitivism. - 4. Protestant- ism and the divine right of nations. ยง 1 T THE transition from what we may roughly call a monistic to a dualistic view of human nature had tremendous practical effects. To identify the law behind the law with the will of God for man was not in itself a difficult step. "To man the eternal law says 'You ought'; to the rest of nature it says 'You must.' " That fact was evident even to thoughtful barbarians; and as Pro- fessor Robson points out, "it emphasized the distinction between man and the rest of the universe." 1 It remained for modern times to reverse the emphasis, in both theory and practi