e could see no further significance in the sum. The real founder of positivist sociology was Auguste Comte (1798-1857). Comte was no ordinary man. Both his in- fellectual stamina and his psychotic disposition are noteworthy, as is also the fact that his work had much more influence on American thought, with its historic propensity toward French ra- tionalism, than on English, with its persistent Catholic undertone. Comte was in fact a logical successor to Calvin. According to Comte, every sphere of effort and enlightenment "progresses" through three stages: "the Theological, or fictitious; the Metaphysical, or abstract; and the Scientific, or positive. . . . Hence arise three philosophies . . . each of which excludes the others." 2 The third and final stage is that of empirical research and scientific inference already reached by the natural sciences: a stage that dazzled Comte's generation in Europe, and continued 1. Hankins, F. H., Introduction to the Study of Society, pp. 541, 543, 546-547. 2. Comte, Positive Philosophy, Vol. I, chap. i (Martineau).  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 202 to dazzle the next two in America. The whole life of society, as well as of the individual, falls under this law of the three stages and the main thing, therefore, was to hasten the advance toward the third stage by getting rid as fast as possible of the other two Comte did his best. The idea of a law of progress in human affairs did not of course originate with Comte; it had been a favorite notion of the eight eenth century, and French liberalism in particular had been af fected by it. Earlier writers, however-Condorcet, for example -had not been altogether clear about what they meant by "law" Comte was explicit: he meant no more and no less than what is meant by the physicist in the laboratory. Now anyone who dis- cerns that kind of a law in history will have to be very nimble to avoid running into some sort of determinism; it may be optimistic determinism, but it will amount to a denial o