ests on our proven faith in the power of active intelligence to create human com- munity out of the most diverse material-without, be it well noted, destroying the diversity. We must therefore be skeptical of all exclusive claims to the love of freedom. It would be broadly true to say that whenever and wherever men have been so fortunate in their endowment and their circumstances as to attain personal freedom, they have loved it. Those occasions-Rousseau notwithstanding-have been brief and rare; still rarer the cases in which men have learnt so to use freedom as to make it the cement of community. That task is his- tory's supreme challenge to human intelligence; and whether our generation can meet it more successfully than countless others have done is still an open question. It is the question that liberal- ism, alone among political philosophies, accepts as its chief con- cern. ยง 2 ARISTOTLE, at the outset of his grand enquiry into human affairs, asks what is the object of the whole business. Characteristically, he wants that object stated in practical human terms, not hatched out of the inner consciousness of some philosopher; and to get at it that way, he says, one must know a good deal about human na- ture, though he need not be a professional psychologist. Follow- ing that line he enquires what it is that people generally aim at, what is the final intent of all their doings and strivings; and he an- swers quite simply, people want to be happy: "happiness is mani- festly something final and self-sufficient, being the end of all things which are and may be done." " If a man is completely happy there 5. Nicomachean Ethics, I, vii (Chase). Everyman ed., p. 11. THE CLASSICAL FOUNDATIONS 27 is no need for further argument; whereas if a man is as good as Job, but also as miserable, there is obviously a lot more to be said. But "to call happiness the chief good is a mere truism, and what is wanted is some clearer account of its real nature." There speaks the essential