ary rule offered bet- ter security. Representative government has never succeeded-has never perhaps been very eager to succeed-in establishing responsible control over the borrowing power. It has been altogether too easy. and too tempting, for large deliberative assemblies to initiate, or endorse, large and popular programs, while leaving to small and secretive groups of officials and moneylenders the sordid business of finding the ways and means. Modern governments have gone ahead recklessly mortgaging the future earnings of their subjects in an endless series of transactions to which neither contemporaries nor historians have paid anything like adequate attention. Indeed most of these transactions-like the Franco-Russian loans that paved the way for the first World War, or the deals that over- threw the British Government in 1931-have been deliberately enveloped in an air of mystery, as if there were something sacro- sanct about them: as indeed, to the participants, there certainly was. The old principle of legitimacy was on its last legs in 1815: a new one had taken charge of international affairs. The question whether a government would acknowledge the debts of its prede- cessor, whatever the circumstances, and whether its signature would be good for a normal term of amortization has played, and is playing, a role in the shaping of international relations, not only in Europe, but in North Africa, South America, India, and China, of which the general public and its popular mentors have simply no idea. Compared to the powers that operate in that sphere, any popular assembly is like a youngster who has just got into long trousers and imagines he is a man about town. 89 Within two generations of Oliver Cromwell's death Englishmen were going crazy over the wildest stock market in history. Money was king, and it ruled without a constitution; a substantial slice of is domain lay in the profits of the slave trade, which in 1713 Bolingbroke took particular pains to ensur