he first World War was a merciful release for Jaurès. It spared him the agony of mind he must have undergone in the next ten years; nor  156 THE LIBERAL TRADITION was he likely to have accepted such consolations as were possible to his British analogue. Jaurès had believed in and worked for international solidarity via labor organization with a sincerity rare even in that school of politics-the cleanest of the lot. But what does the program really have to offer? In general terms the ideal of an international fraternity of wage earners, so far realized that they will refuse any more to slaughter one another is a logical and attractive goal; but in political practice-as recent wars have abundantly demonstrated- it is too negative to prevail against the more tangible claims of nationality. This is not, as some have despondently suggested, because the masses are too stupid to know their own interests; they probably know them as well as the employers know theirs-though that, of course, is not saying much. The fact is, international working-class community is a beautiful but bloodless phantom. There is no such community nor is there likely to be. The program rests in the main on economic considerations, and relies upon them almost exclusively for its im- plementation; but when it comes to a real test, they have neither the attractive nor the compulsive power that is assumed. It is an "erroneous belief," says a brilliant modern economist, "that there are purely economic ends separate from the other ends of life. The ultimate ends of the activities of reasonable beings are never eco- nomic." 21 We may go farther: the dominance of merely economic motivation, no matter how logical or how necessitated, always signifies a decline in human energy, a relapse from the dynamic spirituality of Western man to the less aspiring ways of a defunct Orient. Communist materialism is most effective in Jewish hands because there there is something behind it that is not materialist but is ina