d have arisen. One must further bear in sind the obvious fact that intervention takes on different aspects 235 cording to the status of the power that is to be dealt with. The acerest of well-meaning Americans in Indian affairs has received very marked encouragement from the British premier or his government, and Englishmen have shown a superior tact in their studied ignorance of conditions in Puerto Rico. Another type of intervention has not infrequently arisen from oconomic causes. Whether the debt-collecting activities of Euro- pean powers in the cases of Venezuela and Santo Domingo could Lo called intervention is perhaps doubtful; but the era of dollar diplomacy furnished conspicuous us examples of the way one thing mads to another. That of course was long ago; yet the extension of loans and credits to sovereign states or their central banks is always liable to have political repercussions; for lenders are apt to impose political stipulations in the interests of security. Thus not only the French loans of the interbellum period, but the League loans to Austria, and certain private loans of great mo- ment and magnitude, had political clauses. Whether stipulations ulus arising tend to be of the same nature as those which political „Jeglists would desire is a highly interesting question. The finan- cial principle of legitimacy, like its predecessor, has a strong pref- erence for the status quo. While these considerations suggest that the dogma of noninter- vention has not been quite as sacrosanct as Professor Loewenstein implies, they are all of an ad hoc nature in contrast with the sys- hematic basis of his proposal. That basis would furnish a ground for multilateral action in pursuance of a policy known and declared in advance. It would supply an objective criterion for deciding which states were, as the Nazi theorists used to say, "staatswürdig," and which were not; and it might be reasonably expected that the great majority of states, after due consideration of