t. The transition from formula to principle by means of the value-judgment is complete in such dicta as: "Wis- dom is one thing. It is to know the thought by which all things are steered through all things." 4 It is noteworthy that in the Platonic cosmogony the god or demi- urge or prime mover is not the creator but the arranger, the im- poser of order upon a chaos that he cannot wholly subdue. To discern this divine work is the true wisdom, to partake of it the true virtue; and the two, in Greek thought, are really one. For that very reason by which a man attains to understanding is what we also see at work out there, inspiring the universe itself with order and harmony. Thus in the Republic we have the idea of justice as consisting in adherence to true nature or function because thereby social harmony ensues; and in a noteworthy passage of the Laws the whole position is summed up: "How can there be the least shadow of wisdom where there is no harmony? There is none; but the noblest and greatest of harmonies may be truly said to be the greatest wisdom; and of this he is a partaker who lives according to reason; whereas he who is devoid of reason is the destroyer of his house and the very opposite of a savior of the state: he is utterly ignorant of political wisdom." 5 Or consider this passage from a Socratic dialogue, with its swift transition from a very hypothetical major premise to a very strong value affirmation: But now, are you aware, Hippias, of certain unwritten laws? Yes [he answered] those held in every part of the world, and in the same sense. Can you then assert [asked Socrates] of these unwritten laws that men made them? Nay, how [he answered] should that be, for how could they have all come together from the ends of the earth? And even if they had so done, men are not all of one speech. 4. Quoted in Burnet, John, Early Greek Philosophy, chap. iii. 5. Laws, iii, 689 (Jowett).  46 THE CHRISTIAN SYNTHESIS THE LIBERAL TRADITION Whom then do you believe to