sm. It appears likely that the elimination of national conflict will in fact depend (for a certain sime) on the two centers which alone can amass such overwhelm- ing force-America and Russia. That was how Persia did it, that was how Rome did it. Russia to rule the old world, the United wates the new: that is very possibly the shape of things to come. All we suggest is that that is not the sort of order for which lib- oralism stands; though we have frankly stated that there is no predestination for the liberal ideal. That ideal remains a hope and possibility. Those who serve it will therefore seek to create, even a khin the harsh rigidity of a quite different order, the conditions of expanding freedom within expanding community. The liberal tradition has for centuries tended to limit the scope of state action and to keep the state as such outside the conduct of ordinary communal activities. Never was that tradition more relevant than now, when the dominant aim of all major states has become the organization of the force that makes war the continua- tion of diplomacy. The state comes into the conference room ingling a pocketful of coin on one hip with a gun strapped on the other; and it usually forgets to take its hat off. People who seek to get something constructive peaceably accomplished have found they get along better without that sort of kibitzer. Even when they fail to agree, they fail more safely. It is a curious fact that when state activity is invoked in any considerable degree for the pro- motion of even the most desirable services, it generally ends by dominating or even monopolizing the field. Our fathers knew this, and warned us. They knew too that such invocation of the state invariably magnifies the executive at the expense of both the legis- lature and the judiciary. The history of the United States since 1933 has been an amazing demonstration of this fact. It is evident not only in the degree to which executive orders have been used to circumvent the