ght failed to develop a full theory of consent be- cause of the circumstances in which it arose. The Greeks were an invading race; and as usual in such cases, they cherished a strong sense of racial superiority which was reflected in a close restriction of political privilege. Both Sparta and Athens had large residual and alien populations by whom much of their economic life was carried on; but these people never became citizens, save in rare individual cases by special act of the assemblies. Con- servative Athenians were inclined to argue that the residence basis had in fact been tried on a large scale by Cleisthenes, and that it had not worked out very well. In 507 B.C. Cleisthenes, in alliance with the populace against the old aristocracy, had enlarged the strict hereditary basis of citizenship by giving the franchise on a basis of residence and loyalty-the same qualifications as are now applied in Russian naturalization policy. He had organized 15. Myres, J. L., The Political Ideas of the Greeks, chap. i.  For: 38 THE CLASSICAL FOUNDATIONS THE LIBERAL TRADITION the voters in parishes or wards and regrouped these in such a man- ner that power speedily passed from the institutions dominated by the aristocrats to those operated by the democracy. At the same time he removed the ban on mixed marriages. Fifty years later came the conservative reaction. The test of birth status was reimposed, applicants for citizenship being re- quired to prove their descent from two generations of citizen forebears. Neither biologically nor politically, in the opinion of so acute an observer as Socrates, had the reforms proved beneficent. The "melting-pot policy" was especially condemned. "To the new shock of a general war, the 'second-cross' Athenians reacted quite otherwise than their grandfathers had done in the Persian crisis. Their tempers were uncertain, their judgement clouded by panic and prejudice, possibly even their physique upset in a way that made them easier victims to w