ight of nature and reason will do that which makes for his greatest ad- vantage. . . The advancement of private persons will be the advantage of the public" 6-no need for the state any more to bother about justice! So argued the English clothiers against state regulation of industry at the very time when Colbert was vigorously extending it in France; and by the early eighteenth century do- mestic trade and production were largely free. Opposition to the principle of control, failure of the machinery to keep pace with the economic evolution, and reluctance of both state and gild of- ficials to use what machinery there was all played their parts in the emancipation. But so long as there was an important section of the legislature mindful of the old tradition, Parliament was loth to set the masters free to do what they liked with their workpeople. The industrial disputes of the eighteenth century produced a series of anticom- bination laws for specific industries; but the prohibitions laid on combination are supplemented by wage-fixing machinery in the Elizabethan pattern. The fact that employers appealed to Parlia- ment rather than the courts suggests that the existing law could not be relied on to work in their favor. It is true that the Cambridge master tailors in 1721 got a verdict branding the men's union as a conspiracy;7 but in that same year the London tailors, similarly harassed, petitioned Parliament and got a law with wage-fixing clauses in its tail; and apparently the law was a more important precedent than the verdict. The clothiers went through a similar procedure, with a similar result, in 1726. "While the state refused to recognize the right of working men to combine together for the 6. Quoted in Tawney, R. H., Religion and the Rise of Capitalism, p. 259. 7. Hedges, R. Y., and Winterbottom, A., Legal History of Trade Unionism, chap. ii; see also Bryan, J. W., Development of the English Law of Conspiracy ( Johns Hopkins Studies in Historical and Politica