t all the members of his party agreed with him. mitte Laski's case against Locke is a major part of his case against liberalism, and therefore demands examination. In an early work of 1919 (dedicated to Walter Lippmann ) he has given us a finely critical appreciation of the good physician; and his subsequent withdrawal is based not on Locke's theory so much as on its effects. By putting the preservation of property among the cardinal func- tions of the state, and committing legislation to men whose prime interest that was, Locke made himself responsible for a system that favored privilege and perpetuated inequality: that is the 9. Locke, op. cit., II, chap. v. 10. Butler, G. G., The Tory Tradition, p. 56. SOVEREIGNTY VERSUS COMMUNITY 111 charge. To the passage quoted in our first chapter, we may add the following from the same work: "Ireton's state is a society of property owners; and that, at bottom, is Locke's ideal also. The Pike of regulation is a dislike of limitations upon the right of property to do what it will with its own. The good citizen is the Pan who has achieved, or is achieving, prosperity; the law is to be the law he conceives himself to need. .. . Out of the moral crisis of the seventeenth century there emerged a liberalism, indeed, but one attuned to the implications of the religion of success. That is not a religion which differs very profoundly from age to age. It is the creed of the Pharisee. . . . Its enclosures separate the peasant from the land; its rules of commercial ownership leave the industrial worker with nothing but his labour to sell. we Having made inequality an implicit article of its faith, it then invites to freedom those who are denied the means of reaching it." 11 This line of attack on the institution of private property and on the importance assigned to it, not only by the English Whigs but by the framers of the American Constitution, is at heart emo- tional rather than historical. It imputes to the founders a fore- knowledge