in the Mid- dle East, may develop in future, neither government is likely invite or to welcome the intervention of any third power. Americans have never fully appreciated the permanent concern of the British Foreign Office with the Moslem world. That is no doubt because Moslem interests have no very vocal or highly organized representatives in the Western hemisphere; nor, most of the time, do Moslems act, feel, or even exist as a unit. But there is always the possibility that they may; and there are over two hundred and twenty millions of them-by far the largest com- munity outside the Church of Rome. Their world stretches all the way from Dakar and Casablanca to Kabul and Calcutta; most of it is under British control, the rest mainly French; and it has called forth the services of generations of Scotsmen, Englishmen, and Frenchmen of such courage, character, and scholarship as the more circumscribed diplomacy of the United States has seldom had occasion to require. Never have the relations of Britain with Islam been as critical as now. They are a dominant concern of British policy. Yet they are not of a kind that leagues of states or stop-the-aggressor schemes of American theorists can-or ever could-take care of. They involve the future of India and Egypt the oil of the Middle East, the status of Levantine Christians and Palestinian Jews, the development of the Sudan, the control of the Suez Canal, the exploitation of North Africa, and a multitude of immediate and specific problems. Neither Britain nor France will readily assent to the entry into this vast diplomatic field of any third parties. While the interests of those two states are far from coincident, they are in each case too serious to admit of ap- peal to any abstract criteria or outside agencies; both states are traditionally reluctant to court the intervention of other powers which might be willing to enlarge their responsibilities in the Near East. It further appears beyond question that the present ob