ossession, This is one of them. The process by which the closed nation-state came to dom- inate or devour all other types of association was long and in- tricate. We have seen in earlier chapters how conditions were set for it in the natural integration of the local communities, coupled VALLEY OF DRY BONES with the rejection by several of them-those that were to become the most militant-of all idea of allegiance to a more inclusive form 171 of association. For more than a century their leaders have tried from time to time to re-create such a form; but no more today than at any other time can they afford to admit what the facts so plainly teach, namely, that the very nature of the segregated states makes that aim impossible. Neither conservatism nor collectivism will face this stark reality, for both tend to maintain and reinforce the national state, and quarrel merely as to who shall control it. Con- temporary governments of both the extreme right and the extreme left maintain the pretense of constructing an "international or- der" out of the national units, but their daily actions show plainly which set of interests they take seriously. Only liberalism dares to strike at the root of the matter (thereby offending both ad- versaries ) because liberalism alone inherits a tradition powerful enough to do so. No explanation that is solely or mainly economic can fully account for the monopolization of the associative tendency by the nation-state complex. Factors much more profound and general than the economic played a decisive part in concentrating human sociality in this dead-end type. Morever, the increasing strength of the economic factor has itself to be explained. It is well known, of course, that the trading organizations of the mercantile period contributed a great deal to, and received a great deal from, the consolidating national states. It is also true that when their rivalries happened to run along national lines (which was not always the case ) they received,