randfathers had done in the Persian crisis. Their tempers were uncertain, their judgement clouded by panic and prejudice, possibly even their physique upset in a way that made them easier victims to war-crowding and insanitary sur- roundings. . . . Above all, there was a notable lack of men of initiative and leadership, together with a superfluity of ill-bal- anced, temperamental enthusiasts, cranks and windbags." 16 Po- litically the democracy was beginning to show the characteristic vices of mob rule, and Sparta, which had preferred brutality to concessions, looked the stronger for its conservatism. But it is not possible to saddle the democracy with all the blame. It was precisely those two crossed generations that raised Athens to the peak on which she stood at the outbreak of the Pelopon- nesian War; and if their conduct in that ordeal left much to be desired, it was lily white beside that of their opponents. The aris- tocratic or oligarchic parties throughout Greece, in their struggle to retain or regain control of their cities, showed themselves capa- ble of the blackest treachery, plotting with whatever alien forces they could hire or cajole to the ruin of their fellow townsmen. If the democratic principle was corrupted, the aristocratic was in- finitely more so, and with less excuse. The process was noted at the time, and as an almost universal trend in politics. A rule of birth may be all very well to begin with, may be strictly necessary in fact. But as time goes on, scions of the best families-even sup- posing they remain "best"-are likely to become relatively, and perhaps absolutely, fewer; and as they do so, an alliance almost inevitably arises with the oligarchy of wealth. The original hold- ings of the aristocracy in a growing community are likely, if they 16. Ibid., chap. vi. 39 are not broken up, to increase in value; and other vested interests are naturally inclined to make common cause with them, in many ways, against the masses. Thus the royalis