hat it is the fittest who survive; nor are the quali- ties inculcated by that struggle such as to command unqualified esteem. The best that can be said for some of the practices involved in international economic competition is that they are not quite so bad as those involved in international political competition. Liberalism is not indissolubly wedded to the concept of price competition. There is nothing surprising in the fact that in eco- nomic as in political life, freedom leads to an increasing amount of voluntary agreement. Further, as Sir Richard Acland once re- marked, the important thing about competition is that somebody wins, and then the competition is over. Again, where trade-unions are officially encouraged to eliminate competition between em- ployees, and groups of employees, employers may be expected to follow suit. Over a very large part of the domestic economy the role of competition in price determination is rapidly declining, 22. Cf. Hofstadter, R., Social Darwinism in American Thought, 1860-1915. THE PEACE-BY-FORCE ILLUSION 277 and the American Government itself for more than a decade has been upholding (for better or worse) a very wide area of admin- istered prices. In the foreign field, American exporters have for the past quarter century had freedom to combine; and govern- ments themselves, including the American Government, have en- tered into agreements to control output or markets in such im- portant commodities as wheat, sugar, coffee, rubber, tin, and oil. A large part of the economy, both domestic and international, 's in fact in a transition stage; and it is useful to remember with Kropotkin that if the appeal is to "nature," cooperation is just as «natural" as competition. But under nearly all types of controlled price or marketing systems, the incentive to lower costs remains, and in time affects the general technological level. Moreover, an arbitrary policy puts a premium on substitutes and new sources, and a good deal of the America