iss-though whether it was the fag- gots of the English, the prayers of the faithful, or the politics of the Action Française that had got her there is perhaps a moot point. Her voices, after all, had not been those of devils: in other words, the power of national sentiment now received, at last, the Church's blessing-which, it might be hoped in 1909, would turn out to be also a sanctification. That was a handsome concession; for it was that power, far more than the heretical notions of a recusant German monk or an arrogant French lawyer, that had broken the temporal, and finally the spiritual, imperium. Those men were its instruments, not its progenitors. Luther was one of those many German souls in whom the mixture of much study and violent passion has produced not a synthesis but an explosion; but the explosion was merely that of a detonator. It was perhaps inevitable, as the new solidarities of city, estate, and finally nation cohered and intensified, that the claim of a supertemporal, extraterritorial allegiance should seem thin and extrinsic: had there been no Luther it would have been necessary to invent him. Henry VIII, seeking to consolidate his realm and satisfy his lust short of open apostasy, delivered him- self and his subjects into worse hands than those of any honest heretic-the filthy hands of Thomas Cromwell, disciple of Machia- velli, whose stain four centuries have not been able to efface. It  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 74 is impossible not to see, in the breakup of the European comity- turbulent as that had been-the introduction of a strain of sheer brutality into affairs of state that was in time to make its full con- the tribution to the glory of the British Empire. to thering, Tality ain't § 4 Til then ? WESTERN historians, finding constant traces of the inherent Pe- lagianism of the British, have strained their necks to see in the Protestant movement a concern for individual liberty which is not there. It was no part of Luther's intention, nor of C