the question is irrelevant. Whatever changes in the internal structure and con- trol of business the future may bring, the international issue will be the same: increasing cooperation of the major functional agen- cies regardless of nationality, or foreign competition on a political  in avenue ? 276 THE LIBERAL TRADITION basis with political support. Russian economic policy fa issue just as much as British or American. It is best not to argue about altruism. The more serious objection refers to the restraint of competition which international-or any other-economic agreements involve The popular notion of competition contains various elements. It has a strong "frontier" association in the idea of a man being a law unto himself, prepared to defend himself and his interests against all comers. This ideal has certainly played a great role in American history, and still has its uses; but when it is applied to national policy as a whole-as, for example, Mussolini presumed to apply it-it has an unmistakably primitive coloring. Independ- ence is not diminished by the act of entering into an agreement provided the act is voluntary; and the course of social develop- ment, as the contract theorists noticed, proceeds along just such lines. Independence is menaced only when people are coerced into coming to terms. The notion of competition as struggle gained a specious support from the misapplication of Darwinian theory to the life of civilized communities 22 ( again, Mussolini favored this analogy ). We have already criticized this line of argument, and it is not necessary further to insist that human community consists essentially in lift- ing human relations out of the Hobbesian jungle. Moreover, under conditions of unregulated economic struggle there is no assur- ance whatever that it is the fittest who survive; nor are the quali- ties inculcated by that struggle such as to command unqualified esteem. The best that can be said for some of the practices involved in internatio