ey 16. Ibid., chap. vi. 39 are not broken up, to increase in value; and other vested interests are naturally inclined to make common cause with them, in many ways, against the masses. Thus the royalists of descent find them- selves aligned with, and even used by, those whom an American president has called the "economic royalists"; and a bloc arises which, unless it is very wisely led, may become a citadel of reac- tion and a possible objective of revolution. The Greek practice of restricted citizenship involved however one principle of permanent validity, namely, that the possession of political power is not a universal right but a serious responsi- bility demanding special qualifications. To abolish all the qualifica- tions does not do away with the reason that underlay them. This idea reappears in modern conservatism-in the thought of Dis- raeli, for example. As the notion of government by consent ex- panded into the theory of popular government, political power became a prize or a privilege rather than an obligation, and the necessity of any qualification for its safe or useful exercise dropped below the horizon. The necessity is still there, however; and the recurrent crises of this turbulent century remind us that it is not to be disposed of in any easy or half-hearted fashion. But beneath the plane of politics lie more fundamental and de- cisive factors in the life of society. Political activity as such does not create community; it presupposes community. When a society shows signs of disintegration, the root of the trouble lies always on the deeper plane. This too the Greeks discovered, though the remedy was beyond them. Western society in our time has been beset by a plague of politics; there has been far too much of it for comprehension, let alone consideration; and a good deal of the affliction springs from the notion that when things do not run smoothly, the remedy is to pass more laws, make more rules, issue more orders. The prescription does not seem t