nized as exceptional, nal, and rarely occur. The function of the policeman presupposes the community: he does not create the community. If no community exists the policeman is no longer a policeman but an armed force; and as Americans are never tired of telling the British in India, an armed force, though it may preserve order within the limits of its power. does not create a free community. It is worth while to ask just how much work, in the present world of armed states, a world police force would actually find to do. In striking contrast to the situation in the closing months of the previous war, when at least important principles were under dis- cussion, American attention has been deliberately focused on the mere machinery of force, to be applied to nobody quite knows whom in support of nobody quite knows what. It is possible that the statesmen of the other two great powers found it expedient to indulge the American passion for scheme making while the really serious business was privately attended to elsewhere. But the discussion of future force has brought out one fact of sig- nificance: the crux of the entire problem lies in the relations of the three dominant powers with one another-with which the pro- posed international machinery will have nothing whatever to do. It may well turn out that the whole apparatus of international sanctions and a resuscitated League of Nations will find very little work: not because of the coming of the millennium, but because of the radically different political situation. Wilson's policy was the multiplication of sovereign states: there were six more after Ver- sailles than in 1914, some of them very jealous of their autonomy, others kept apart by force. Wilson also promulgated the fiction of the equality of states, which is now effectively abandoned; in no future international organization will small states be allowed a veto power, by the rule of unanimity or otherwise, over policies on which the big ones are agreed. But it w