his head." 4 Such was the man who, with a monarch behind him, might at the eleventh hour have averted the revolution! Turgot's case against the monopolies, like his case against state regulation, rests on specific as much as on general grounds. That there were abuses and a real need of reform, even the Six Com panies of Paris, and their spokesman in the Parliament of 1776 admitted. An enquiry into the affairs of the gilds had been started in 1716, and there had actually been half-hearted reform move- ments before Turgot's time. But the extension of the system by successive royal edicts had not been accompanied by an adequate supervision of their rules and practices. The vested interests of the court and the royal exchequer had stood in the way. Now the gilds as well as the state were bankrupt. Neither the public nor the crown, said Turgot, had really anything to gain by their continued existence: "I do not think anyone could seriously and in good faith maintain that these societies, with their exclusive privileges. and the obstacles they put in the way of enterprise, incentive. and technical advance, are of any use whatever." 5 In this contention Turgot undoubtedly had the support of the small bourgeoisie everywhere, as well as of the whole group of economists. The decline of agriculture and the pressure of the abominable tax system were rendering life increasingly precari- ous; the rural population was drifting to the towns, as it has in almost every economic crisis of France; and the restrictions upon the chance of earning any sort of a living were being forced into the foreground of popular discontent. The celebrated manifesto of Bigot de St. Croix, in addition to the usual charges, stresses the effect of gild monopoly on the cost of living. "Once a man has got the exclusive right of selling me this or that article, he becomes from that moment the dictator of the price; I have to submit to his terms. Once a regulation forces me to employ a particular work- man, h