y different from that which lay at the heart of European culture. So much the worse, they reply, for European culture; and the rejoinder cannot be casually dismissed. Thus the contest involves the soul of civilization; and it is an open issue in both Western Europe and America.  XI The Positivist Attack 1. Comte's new religion. - 2. The apostolate of Mr. Wells. - 3. Progress to utopia. - 4. Determinism: eco- nomic. - 5. Cultural. - 6. Biological. - 7. Psychologi- cal. - 8. Moral. ยง 1 T THE nature of the positivist attack on religion may be indi- cated by one of the chapter headings in a leading Ameri- can textbook of sociology: Myth, Magic, Religion, and Science. The implication is that these terms de s describe a progress; that religion is merely the anachronistic survivor of a primitive (i.e., inferior) type of mentality, manifesting itself in totemism animism, devil worship, witchcraft and other modes of supersti- tion; and that the whole caboodle, religion included, ged, is in process of being superseded by the development of "rational knowledge." "It would seem possible, with the greater development of the sciences of life, mind, and society, for man an actually to acquire a scientific basis for an ever more and more perfect individual life and social organization . . . The question arises, however whether this progressive naturalistic view leaves any basis for the religious attitudes." The answer plainly given is that it does not "In spite of many soft words and hopeful assurances to the con- trary, there is an irreconcilable conflict between the modern spirit which is scientific and practical, and the spirit of orthodox Chris- tianity, which is mystical and other-worldly. . . . The combined effect of all these modern influences is to produce a process of secularization of both individual and social life. Secularization is a process of replacing the sacred by the secular, of replacing theo- logical postulates of thought and belief by rational ones and mystical