of the measures 4. Burke, Present Discontents, Select Works, I, 86 (Payne).  10 THE LIBERAL TRADITION which arise in the course of public business are related to, or de- pendent on, some great leading general principles in Govern- ment." " The italics are Burke's. Action taken without reference to such principles is likely to be, in the full sense, unprincipled; its criteria can hardly rise above mere expediency, which is seldom far from self-interest. Thus in advance Burke answered the eco- nomic determinists; and he may fairly be held to have shown that political action can be, in a real, not an illusory sense, disinter- ested, and that only when it is so does collective life become worthy of true human nature. The current popularity of the doctrine that men are powerless to transcend whatever their biological heritage and material cir- cumstances dictate is the natural product of an era in which col- lective greed has outrun collective intelligence. A feeling of baffle- ment and bedevilment, a mood of pessimism and despondency, results; materialism takes hold upon men's minds because it has so thoroughly informed their actions; and when it yields its in- variable harvest of brute force and blind destruction, the pessi- mism and despondency are deepened and the vicious circle closes like a steel trap. Then force appears the only answer to force, and war the way to end war; and liberalism, which denounces such maxims as subhuman, is shouted down in the name of that iden- tical pseudo-realism that created the bloody mess. ยง 3 A HUNDRED and ten years after Burke proclaimed his political postulates, a greater scholar gave them new meaning and con- firmation. "The great object in trying to understand history," wrote Lord Acton in a much-quoted letter of 1880, "is to get be- hind men and grasp ideas. Ideas have a radiation and develop- ment, an ancestry and posterity of their own, in which men play the part of godfathers and godmothers rather than of legitimate parents