atever constitutions and boundaries may be assigned shem, will exist only by and with the consent of the extra-Eu- 245 pean powers; they will not again be put in a position to be- "me the objects of a major international contest. Major conflicts Af external policy are hardly likely to arise because no minor te will have enough actual autonomy to create them: but if they do they will come immediately under the cognizance of one or more of the great powers, whose interest it will be at all costs to Localize rather than to generalize them. The notion of the sovereign quality of all states has fortunately been abandoned; and with a saturn to realism it may be expected, and hoped, that frontier quarantees and frontier disputes will be neither encouraged nor blowed to attain world-wide importance. The juridical and quasi- sthical handling of interstate relations is indeed already super- ceded by the political and diplomatic methods which alone are suited to that sphere of operations. Any uncertainty is surely dis- deled by the fact that small powers desiring to attend the San Francisco Conference on World Security had first to declare war on the enemies of the great powers in order to get a ticket. Coun- kies that declined to do so were ipso facto not "peace-loving na- tions"-a curious and highly significant paradox. Thus we find ourselves once again in a world of great powers, satellite powers, and spheres of influence; and the road back to reality has been hard on the corps of idealists who shaped the pop- ular version of American foreign policy. But the result is salutary. It is better to realize that that is the only sort of world in which nation-states live, move, and have their being. All international politics is power politics. Sometimes it permits a measure of peace, sometimes it calls for war; but in neither case has it much to do with the hopes and aspirations of those who long for broader brotherhood. International community lies on a different plane from inte