eir international solidarity can be realized, in con- orious devotion to humane and constructive purposes, can they be called on for a stand that would be both costly and dangerous. It is to be noted that the American Government, like that of Russia- and possibly with some such contingency in mind-has not only created a vast research organization in wartime, but is seeking to expand technical research under its direct auspices in peacetime. Scientists in private industry who presumed to act on their indi- vidual valuation of purposes would of course face unemployment; scientists in government service who rebelled, especially if they refused to maintain secrecy, would risk imprisonment and execu- tion. National force will not surrender without a struggle, and is always prompt to attack its internal enemies. Nonetheless, the project of an international pressure group composed of scientists and research workers may be counted on among the future agents of community. Nor will such a group lack allies. 9. AP dispatch, London, January 31, 1945. New York Herald Tribune, February 1.  262 THE LIBERAL TRADITION Among its allies will be the writers and reporters of the various nations who prefer to call their souls their own. It is safe to say that among such men and women-a high proportion of the profes- sion-there exists a truer conception of the the comn that of the political officials who constitute their chief problem. ommon good than The reporter hates censorship and distortion, not because of a dispute about ends but because truth is his métier: he risks his life to get it, racks his brain to tell it, and wants it delivered clean Sanity in national and international affairs depends on the fulfil. ment of that purpose; and if there is one function above all that can never be entrusted to governments, this is it. There exists al- ready an organized movement to establish, as part of the postwar settlement, the right to tell the truth. Insofar as it succeeds it will be a po