ical difficulty of in- ducing those to forbear who can, if they like, encroach, is far greater, for the weaker are always asking for equality and justice, but the stronger care for none of these things." 13 Plato, pursuing the same line of thought, follows it through to the ultimate stage of the proletarian revolution. The whole argument forecasts the inevitable breakdown of a party system at the point where the parties come to represent distinct economic classes. The ideal life for the citizen was in Greek thought the agrarian life of the independent farmer: not because of its amenities, which in Greece, as in most other parts of the world, were pathetically meager, but because of the type of character it fostered. The classical writers give a good deal of detailed consideration to the problem of relieving agrarian life from the more extreme hazards of economic insecurity. On this point Professor T. I. Cook has an interesting comment: "Perhaps one might note that the agrarian- ism of Jefferson, which was directed to the securing of this very independence, has much in common with the theories of Aristotle, and that the commitment of this country [United States] to the industrial regime, which Jefferson so greatly distrusted, has in fact produced a proletarian mass little capable of genuine citizenship. Similarly, the growth of certain continental dictatorships with a 12. Politics, iv, 127 ( Jowett). 13. Ibid., vi, 192-193.  For: 36 THE LIBERAL TRADITION high degree of popular support at least raises the question whether the economically insecure are capable of reasoned political ac- tivity." 14 We shall subsequently have to consider whether the provision of financial security to an industrial population consti- tutes an answer to this question, or whether a more radical line of approach is indicated. The Greek emphasis on the stability and impersonality of law as the necessary condition of freedom raised yet another question of urgency for our time. If the law-no ma