s exhausted in its social aspects; and all those who, like Sorokin, are determined to steer clear of determinism have to find elbowroom somewhere in their systems for you and me, as recognizable entities. A considerable number, following Pareto, have us classified into active "elites" and more or less passive masses: again, with much justification. But the ground of the classification is exceedingly abstract; any attempt to apply it in specific terms leads to difficulties. It is evident, of course, that any reader of these lines belongs to some sort of an elite-either in vir- tue of his interest in the subject, or his having the price of the book, or his wife having friends from whom she has borrowed it. A fortiori, therefore, the writer belongs to the elite. He devoutly hopes, however, that the reader will refrain from mentioning 6. Bergson, H., Time and Freewill, passim, especially chaps. ii and iii. the fact if ever they have the good fortune to meet St. Francis. Berdyaev, in an important work 7 that comes to hand as this 191 chapter is being written, remarks that "there is nothing more repel- lent than the pride and contempt of a closed élite." There is ob- sious truth in the view that intellectual and cultural values are most clearly realized by minorities, through whose influence a process of diffusion continually goes on; but to think of these minorities as actual numerical groups is quite misleading. Here, os everywhere else, the quantitative aspect is less significant than the qualitative. Similarly, Berdyaey points out, it is a mistake to identify the "masses" with the working class or "the people." "A lack of expressed personality, an absence of personal originality, 2 disposition to swim with the current. . .. A man with such characteristics is a man of the masses, to whatever class he may belong." Such people are just as frequent in colleges as in coal mines. The dominance in our civilization of mass standards and mass psychology is therefore a qualitat