al dogma we have been dis- cussing; and the practitioners had no difficulty in showing how strong and how dynamic these strains were. It seemed to follow and this was the therapeutic secret-that to give adequate recognition to these chthonic powers and come to terms with them (the terms being theirs-for what else was there?) spelled in- tegration, peace, and success in life. On such terms ( with the aid, perhaps, of Dr. Steinach ) Faustus could be young again; and that as the manners, the diversions, even the dress of the period in- dicated-was the obvious summum bonum. Thus the practice of psychoanalysis rapidly expanded from a useful approach to genu- ine psychosis into a popular panacea for all who were so minded, and could afford it. Now the type of conflict with which this procedure is properly concerned- naturally a very frequent type in a materialistic cul- tre-lies between what may be called normal and subnormal motives; whereas the type of conflict with which religious psy- chology is concerned lies between normal and supernormal mo- tives: between the "natural man" and the urge toward spiritual - But in the perfection. This latter conflict is just as real as the former, and for some minds just as urgent; but the Freudians were noticeably re- sol. psychmon has the same luctant to give it either attention or recognition. The school of Jung always acknowledged its existence ( and was solemnly ex- in Thecalling ps communicated therefor); Jung and many others have written the dustinchis wisely and sympathetically about it; and at last the Freudians is invalid ! manifested a certain curiosity. Freud's clumsy construction of the 'superego" was a belated attempt to fit this phase of experience into his analytical system. He announced that the superego was  216 THE LIBERAL TRADITION . . . a genuine structural entity . . . the vehicle of the ego-ideal, by which the ego measures itself, towards which it strives, and whose de mands for ever-increasing perfection it is