ling people who have never seen their alleged enemy are led time after time to mutual destruction-and always for reasons that seem, at the time, to be adequate, even compelling. Does this compulsion really spring from an ancient instinct to hunt and kill? Does it reflect a suppressed need to do violence to life, even one's own life? Hypotheses of that sort rest on assumptions so remote, so unverifiable, that every alternative must logically be exhausted before we entertain them seriously. And there are alternatives on a more accessible plane: a plane on which we can take action, if we can muster the courage of desperation. At the outset we may hazard a broad, but quite empirical, gen- eralization: In periods when freedom is an object of struggle, or is actively being fought for, it is sufficiently conceived as freedom from. Its specific meaning lies mostly on the negative side-though it by no means appears negative while the struggle is on. The  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 162 vanguard liberals of France, Russia, America, Britain, Italy, were quite specifically aware of the things they were fighting ing against, in fact, they often made catalogues of them, with ample documen- tation. What they were fighting for could be sufficiently described for the time being, in general terms, broad declarations of rights and liberties. Those things belonged to the future, and the portals of possibility were wide open. But as one enters into the future- as one does with every movement, every breath-its amplitude diminishes, and freedom from has to be translated into freedom for. That is the critical phase of the social adventure. It is inescar able for the simple reason that (as Aristotle argued) a perfectly neutral or inactive freedom is meaningless. In the neutral or in active sense, a carrot or a cow in a field might feel itself free, in that the conative impulses of its being were adequately realized. but since it has none, the term does not apply. Freedom for man means opportunity