insists that the family is prior to the state, so the state must keep hands off. He puts pri- vate property also beyond the reach of the state, and argues there- fore that taxation may not be levied without consent. What was still more important to the Politiques, and to the development of the liberal tradition, was his emphasis on the exclusively political nature of sovereignty, with the recognition that it does not and should not try to constitute the sole basis of community. "He is urging, in the manner of the Politiques, that the political bond may be self-sufficient even though the political community be divided by differences of religion and by the survival of local customary, and class immunities." 14 Preferring historical realism to logical consistency, Bodin liked decentralization of govern- ment, and recognized the communal character of many types of organization within the political unity; he envisaged even a variety of languages. The Politiques are the true precursors of modern liberalism They were attacked as skeptics and unbelievers (some of them were) but they were the truer idealists for spurning the wild horses of dogma and absolutism and keeping their feet on the ground. They saw-and history has vindicated their insight-that liberty in community depends on three great postulates: First, there cannot be more than one source or kind of coercion in a community. Secular power must in this respect be monistic. That involved the rejection of the Dantesque principle of the two swords, in the conscious hope that they might be beaten into plowshares before too many generations had been impaled on them. For purely practical reasons, the power to coerce must in- here solely in the political sovereign. It is noteworthy that where as in modern Germany, Italy, Russia, a party has succeeded in in- troducing a second system of coercion, the result was the breakup of the political community in revolution and despotism. Liberalism can never allow any group or party,