he defaulting debtor antedates even the laws of Solon. There is solid substance in the Catholic contention that the Church's prohibition of usury, to use a Keynesian phrase, forced savings into investment. The would-be lender was compelled to share the risks, by some form of partnership or sale, as well as the profits-which could be very large. But by the sixteenth century Church authorities themselves were beginning to liberalize the traditional doctrine; and Calvin, in recognizing the usury con- tract, went only a little beyond current theory (beyond current practice he hardly went at all). But in the sequel there were at- tendant circumstances. For reasons which had to do rather with geography than with religion, there was more money in the Protes- tant states. Englishmen were making piles, not only in maritime adventure but out of the loot of the Church and the enclosure of the commons. Henry VIII saw the advantage of the Protestant  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 88 THE SECULAR STATE position; and Cromwell reaped the benefit. What was a good risk had by now become the paramount question among those who were to supply the sinews of empire. The Fuggers had taken their licking on the Holy Roman Emperor. The probity of the puritans was proverbial. The Amsterdam money market opened its arms to the Lord Protector; and the Jews were readmitted to England. From that day on the triumph of parliamentary government was assured. For in pledging the revenues of the realm as security for a loan, the advantages of a government of laws and not of men shone with refulgent glory. Men die; but parliaments do not-not if they can help it. What doomed the Jacobites after the Restoration was that they were a bad financial risk. What ensured the success of the Whigs was that a system of parliamentary rule offered bet- ter security. Representative government has never succeeded-has never perhaps been very eager to succeed-in establishing responsible control over the borrowing power. It has been