ealth accompanied by an increase of "constraint" could never fool the true Aristotelian! The warning that thus comes to us from over two thousand years ago needs today all the emphasis of which speech is capable. For the modern world has bought its material abundance at far too high a price, and it is beginning to find that out. Somehow- we shall presently discuss how-modern society has got itself into a condition which entails on ever-increasing masses of people the most appalling frustration of elemental impulses and functions; with the result that in millions of lives those impulses are perverted to ugly and cancerous forms, or are so atrophied that individuals can no longer rise above the level of mere mass existence. Health- ful bodily exercise, fresh air and contact with nature, active play and good-fellowship, normal mating and maternity at a normal age, choice of occupation and a sense of creativity in work, with the measure of hope and confidence which that engenders, quiet affection and peace of mind in a natural human group-all these basic ingredients of the good life have become increasingly un- attainable to increasing numbers, until they are hardly thought of or remembered. Instead, substitute gratifications are offered (for sale ) that do not gratify, passive pleasures and pastimes that ex- cite the nerves and benumb the mind, machine-made entertain- ment that rouses artificial emotions to no better outlet than a sticky 6. Ibid., I, v. Rackham (Loeb ed., p. 73) gives "a hard kind of life"; literally "violent"-adjective denoting constrained as opposed to natural. 29 and diffuse eroticism not even strong enough to be downright sensual. Along with all this, and because of it, collective life shows a constant tendency toward herd action, with slogans and stereo- types passing for ideas, what Pareto would call "derivations" pass- ing for realistic policies, and outbreaks of mass action that turn all the contriving instincts of the human animal to his blood