mper pervaded public life as the ability to envisage policy in the larger and more permanent sense tended to disappear. The kangaroo beat both the donkey and the elephant. But the true life of a community is not a series of violent jumps to particular objectives; it is a constant process demanding a steady sense of direction, a continuous realization of principles not exhausted in their application to a transitory set of circumstances. The lapse of such a sense, the ignorance of such principles, have disastrous consequences. The bewilderment and cynicism of our younger citizens are due less to the complexity of the problems they are called upon to face than to the failure of the older genera-  For: THE LIBERAL TRADITION 2 tion to transmit any thorough grasp of underlying principle and tradition. The youth of Victorian times was far more fortunate. Now once again the familiar cycle of depression, militarism, war has further raised the temperature and shortened the perspec- tive. In time of stress we naturally counteract our suffering with the thought of better days to come; and as the strain increases we advance the date. We draw spiritual as well as financial drafts upon the future, never doubting that they will be honored at maturity. In proportion as the means we must now employ are costly and terrible, so the more clear and close must be the vision of our ends. Thus readily we credit the assurances of politicians that the immediate sequel to a tornado of destruction will be a more abundant life for everybody, and mortgage our incomes, our property, and the blood of our children to a dream: lucky indeed we shall be if that dream does not again become a nightmare. For purposes of war it is enough that we will the supreme end, vic- tory, leaving the means-the strategy and tactics-to our gen- erals; but for purposes of peace free people must master means as well as ends. For the means will shape the ends-as the history of modern Germany reminds us. In the battle of t