It is necessary, and far more dangerous, to fight for the values of the future: who knows what they are, who knows if there are any? We demand the impos- sible? Very well: history is the autobiography of the impossible. ยง4 WHEN we were at school, and they showed us that the world was round, it was obvious that the Australian people were standing upside down; and it seemed strange that they were not aware of it. It seemed unfair, too, that the way the world rotated kept them perpetually "down under" and never gave them a chance to know what it was like to be right side up. Even now that seems a little odd. There they have to stay, looking out on quite a different set of stars, never catching a glimpse of Polaris-so they really are upside down. One wonders how they find their way about. There  308 THE LIBERAL TRADITION is probably nothing much we can do for them; and if the book- shops started selling upside-down globes we should all protest. It would be ridiculous to put the South Pole where the North Pole ought to be: who would want a globe like that? So it remains something of a marvel that when you meet Australians they ap- pear comparatively normal; but of course that is due to a trick of behavior they have acquired in their occasional visits to us; in- side them they really feel quite differently. How could it pos- sibly be otherwise? Some people say that there is a point or position or something of the sort from which it is apparent that the Australians are just as much right side up as we are; but that is a very strange and difficult idea, and wherever that point may be, it is not where we live. Some people have even suggested that there may be an analogous position-or perhaps the same one-from which past and future have the same sort of identity as upside down and right side up. That verges on the preposterous, and certainly no one will ever find it in our time. We have to go on working by the clock and the plumb line, and there is nothing fanciful about the