e inherent Pe- lagianism of the British, have strained their necks to see in the Protestant movement a concern for individual liberty which is not there. It was no part of Luther's intention, nor of Calvin's either. that the doctrine of the autonomy of the individual conscience should be construed, first in act and then in theory, to imply the autonomy of the individual citizen; the note of desperation is plain in their protests. The assertion of a divine institution of tem- poral authority, both general and specific, not merely survived but was immensely strengthened by Luther and his immediate fol lowers. If Luther "destroyed in fact the metaphor of the two swords," 12 the one with which he equipped his "godly prince" was double edged; and it was that fact alone which commended it to the English Henry. There is an inherent affinity between nationalism and abso- lutism. The tribal consciousness, which manifests its extremes of good and evil in the former, tends to assert itself against all comers in the latter; for consciousness of kind is really consciousness of difference. The outstanding fact for Henry and his England was that the pope was a foreigner. When the king transferred his suit from the pope to Parliament, he was bringing it from an alien to an English jurisdiction. The religious issue as such played a very small part in the whole affair: that was to come later. The in- ternationalism of the Church seemed by now to be almost wholly political; and its spiritual authority, which neither the king nor his subjects were at all eager to contest, was too weak to counter- act the English swarming. When at last his majesty saw fit to en- dow the Church in England with his royal supremacy, his sole in- tention, as the preceding acts bear witness, was to make himself master in his own house. Of course there were some very pretty perquisites. 12. Figgis, J. N., Divine Right of Kings, p. 84. THE BREAKDOWN OF UNIVERSALITY To Cranmer and other German-trained ecclesias