lation between tem poral and spiritual authority was not clear until after the doctrine of divine right had done its work. Indeed, it is not clear now; but that doctrine had a work to do. It was, as everyone knows, a Protes- tant doctrine; what is not generally recognized is that it had to defend society against a Protestant enemy. Both Luther and Calvin had enjoined passive obedience to tem poral rulers, including bad ones. They had been very emphatic about it. But the Calvinists promptly limited its application to rulers they approved of, and fought with rigor and vigor against Catholic courts in Europe and Scotland, and the Episcopal settle- ment in England. They would recognize no divine right in the Stuart monarchy, and they seized their opening in the struggles of the Scots versus the French, the English Parliament versus the king, and the American colonists versus London. ยง 3 THE system established by Calvin and his disciples was not, prop- erly speaking, part of the Reformation; it was a revolution, a radical and as potent as the subsequent revolutions in France THE SECULAR STATE 83 Russia, and Nazi Germany-with which it was not unconnected. While it utilized certain concepts of Catholic theology, and leaned for the letter of its law on the Bible-more especially on the non- christian elements-it placed all its emphasis on tenets which the Church admitted only under the most stringent reservations, and thus fashioned a system that denied the cardinal basis of the Church itself. Luther neither did nor intended anything of the sort. The Calvinists preached and practiced a radically new re- ligion-if religion is the name for it. That is open to question. Religions grow, but this was invented; and if the essence of religion is the offering of a way of salvation, this one started from the assertion that there was none. Says the Westminster Confession of 1647: "By the decree of God, for the manifestation of His glory, some men and angels are predestinated unto ever