erial basis of the commonweal was incomplete, nor-in either the gen- eral or the special sense of the term-was there a common law. And it was the price of the past-that past so rich in everything but peace and quiet-that now the time factor became critical For in the same hour that centralization was nearing its goal un- der absolute monarchy, forces were gathering that would chal lenge both the centralization and the absolutism, in both theory and practice. Their explosion destroyed supreme authority it- self. Its basis, its rationale, had to be redefined and recodified, late in time, from the foundations. Yet the revolution was unable to establish a lasting liberalism. Its legacy was another centralization with a different bureaucracy, and another absolutism with a differ- ent dogma. In due course new challengers appeared-and the pattern repeated itself. $ 2 HARDLY second to the French passion for unity is the passion for clarity: the heirs of the Greeks have prided themselves upon it, and not without reason. A highly qualified English observer, Wil- frid Ward, writing about 1900, said of this characteristic: "I be- lieve that the French habit of self-analysis and self-expression really belongs to a stage of self-realization radically different from 1. Cambridge Modern History, Vol. V, chap. i. INDIVIDUALISM 139 self-consciousness, and which is characteristic in some respects of a higher advance in purely mental civilization than our own country- men have yet reached." 2 But as Ward noted even then, this particu- lar excellence had its price: the danger of political instability. For in matters of general import the attempt to reach finality of defini- tion divides men more than it unites them; and the more serious the affair, and the keener the intelligence applied to it, the deeper goes the divisive effect. The English always retreat before an ab- solute; the French advance. The English survived their "glorious revolution" in virtue of their distrust of both glor