ophy, the onus is all against coercion, the rule stands. It will not impress those for whom the men that a free economy has brought to the top are ipso facto selfish, while the leaders of all the rest, whatever their record, are ipso facto altruistic. It must be remembered that the most familiar and ubiquitous form of coercion is taxation; although the burden may be to some extent postponed, in peace as well as war, by the piling up of debt, it comes back to taxation in the end. When people are paying taxes that are not regarded as oppressive for purposes that are generally approved, taxation strengthens the solidarity of the com- munity. But when people are paying heavy taxes for purposes of which a large proportion profoundly disapprove, these feel they are merely buying immunity from further coercion, and the whole community is adversely affected. This aspect of the matter was very clearly realized in the policies of Gladstonian liberalism, and has been dangerously ignored since. These observations arise ineluctably from the liberal contention that the primary concern of the state is justice; that the source of justice is in the people, not in the bureaucracy; that the claims of free personality determine the limits of political action; and that liberty is itself the highest political end. If therefore the liberal is confronted with a choice-if he is-between more security at the price of more coercion, and liberty, he can only reply that, foolish as he may seem in the eyes of the experts, he still prefers liberty. ยง 3 IN OUR time the view of the state as primarily the agent of justice has been overshadowed by two other conceptions. The first of these is that of the state as a gigantic business enterprise, in which the entire community is organized for the production of goods and services. The Western nations have now had very consider- able experience of this system. For thirty years war has been the outstanding economic enterprise of most national communities, d