n of letters of credit, the status of aliens and citizens in for- eign parts in all this practical life of an expanding community the administrators had to succeed in framing and developing a law that would work. They were elected officials, and they were elected on a "platform"-a program, reaffirmed in its main planks from year to year, that developed into nothing less than a uni- versal law code: the law of the peoples, as it came to be called. And the Roman lecturers and advocates, quite logically, were inclined to see in it a law of people as such, and to identify it with, or derive it from, that natural and universal law about which Greek philosophy had so much to say. The process is worth watching in Cicero. He selects, for ex- ample, as a problem in jurisprudence, Tarquin's rape of Lucretia. There was no written law against adultery; but "even then he had the light of reason deduced from the nature of things, that incites to good actions and dissuades from evil ones; and which does not begin for the first time to be law when it is drawn up in writing, but from the first moment that it exists. And this existence of moral obligation is coeternal with that of the divine mind." 2 He wants to establish mutuality as the basis of law; so he argues that "ac- cording to nature-that is, the law of the peoples-as well as by the statutes of particular communities, no man is allowed to injure his neighbour for the sake of his own advantage." Then he pro- ceeds: "If nature ordains that one man shall desire to promote the interests of a fellow man, whoever he may be, just because he is a fellow man, then it follows, in accordance with that same nature, that there are interests that all men have in common. And if this is true, we are all subject to one and the same law of nature; and if this also is true, we are certainly forbidden by Nature's law to wrong our neighbour. Now the first assumption is true; therefore the conclusion is likewise true." 3 But was the first assumpt