less frankly the operation, and the cost of human stupidity and vice. So only will he attain a realistic and robust philosophy which does justice both to the stature and the awful responsibility of man. If-to resume our analogy-the chil- 79 dren as they become autonomous become also anarchical, caring only for themselves and not at all for one another or the com- munity that nurtured them, we do not put all the blame upon the children. The Catholic system from which the Protestant economy broke loose in the sixteenth century had already lost much of its hold on the minds and hearts of men. It had come to rely on co- ercion rather than conversion, and to care more for its rights and revenues than the winning of souls. The iconoclasts for all their barbarism had struck a blow at superstition that should have been dealt before by cleaner hands; and when at last new blood began the great reform of the Church's mind and body, England was far away. Elizabeth could never look back. And when the pope pro- ceeded not only to excommunicate but to depose her, and not only to depose her but to dispatch a foreign army against her, it was the voice of England that answered him. Thus the Virgin Queen sup- planted the Blessed Virgin, and new litanies were sung to Gloriana. But Elizabeth-partly because she was a woman, partly be- cause she was a political genius-was quick to disclaim all spirit- ual authority for her official position, thereby easing the situation at the price of a new problem. For the principle of one realm, one religion, was generally accepted, despite the fact that both were now on a local basis. Men were still inclined to think that the "law behind the law" having one supreme source should have one supreme interpretation. But if the "Supreme Governor" of the Church relinquished all spiritual authority while retaining all power of appointment, what became of the old principle of the superiority of the spiritual allegiance? History knows the answer, but Hooker did