masses, to whatever class he may belong." Such people are just as frequent in colleges as in coal mines. The dominance in our civilization of mass standards and mass psychology is therefore a qualitative, not a quantitative, phenome- non; and Berdyaev has some interesting comments on its origin. The characteristic products and potentialities of our era, he ob- serves, are such as to be available in just the same way to the barbarian as to the man of the highest culture. The masses appropriate to themselves the technical side of civilization and eagerly equip themselves with it, but it is with great difficulty that they assimilate spiritual culture. The masses had indeed in the past their own spiritual culture and it was based upon religious belief. The masses in the present transitional period, on the other hand, are devoid of all spiritual culture, they set store by nothing but the myths and symbols which are instilled into them by demagogues-national and social myths and symbols, of race, nation, state, class and the like. With all this the making of idols is always going on.8 Idols of that sort, embodying values of a lower order, have an inherent tendency to subject to themselves values of a higher or- der-those of knowledge, of art, of the spiritual life; a constant struggle is embodied in the very nature of social culture. But it is a reflection of the struggle that is embodied in the nature of man himself; for example, the conflict between sexuality and love. The 7. Slavery and Freedom, pp. 124, 121-123. 8. Ibid., pp. 121-122.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 192 sexual impulse operates, arithmetically speaking, on a very com- mon plane (that is why Hollywood cannot do without it); it permits the substitution of one object for another. Love is a rela- tion between complete personalities. The historical issue, as Ber- dyaev and many others now see it, is the defense of personality against the forces of a material civilization that tend to crush and annihilate it. This is