magnanimity fail. The ideal solution to the quarrel with America, he thinks, is that the colonists should have direct rep- resentation in the British Parliament. And if, as is not unlikely American productivity should one day exceed British, he is willing to contemplate the removal of the capital "to that part of the Em pire which contributed most to the general defence and support of the whole." But if such union prove to be impossible, then Britain must face the separation and "accommodate herself to the real mediocrity of her circumstances." Perhaps "by thus parting good friends" the Americans could be induced to enter into re- ciprocal trade relations, which "might dispose them not only to respect, for whole centuries together, that treaty of commerce which they had concluded with us at parting, but to favour us in war as well as in trade, and, instead of turbulent and factious sub jects, to become our most faithful, affectionate, and generous allies." 19 Despite the limitations of his outlook that Germans and com- munists take pains to emphasize, liberalism need not be ashamed today to acknowledge Adam Smith among its founders. When those critics can point to a leader as humane, as prudent, and as realistic, liberals will perhaps listen more attentively. 19. Ibid., Book IV, chap. vii, Part 3. VII Capital and Labor: Britain 1. Emergence of a "class" of wage earners. - 2. The state as a business agency. - 3. Development of English labor policy. - 4. The abdication of government. - 5. Its ra- tionalization in economic theory. ยง 1 T THE emergence of a "class" of wage earners as a distinct and separate element of the body politic is generally thought of as a modern phenomenon; but the novelty lies not in the economic fact (so far as it is a fact) but in the interpretation put upon it. A large proportion of the members of society always have been wage earners, and always will be. It is only a minority, in any society, that either can or will depend for its sustenanc