of the nature of economic warfare as waged in Latin America, it would gain a vivid insight into Mr. Biddle's meaning. It was cer- tainly interested, in April, 1944, to learn of the journey of the president of that bank to the almost unexplored Doce River Valley of Brazil in connection with a fourteen-million-dollar loan to local corporation.18 If the prospects are as sound as Mr. Pierso a reported, it is not altogether clear why a government agency should be needed. In putting all the resources of a great power behind the ex- pansion of its foreign trade, America is following a well-trodden though not necessarily a safe road. It may be be pointed out, how- ever, that during the most active phase of British economic im- perialism, the British Government did not aspire to become a di- rect investor or to any great extent a direct creditor; and that Brit- ain itself adhered to the principle of free trade. That situation is changed for the worse in both respects. The British Government is now a direct debtor on trade account, on a very large scale; and it has clearly stated that the principle of empire preference will continue to govern its trade policies after the war. Taken together, the foregoing considerations presage a diffi- cult, and perhaps dangerous, trade situation, emphasized by the superfluity of both shipping and air transport. Even if the trend toward total shrinkage is somehow reversed, the trend toward partially or wholly closed systems is likely to continue. So, in all probability, is the trend toward direct intergovernmental debtor- 17. Complete text in United Nations Review, Vol. IV, No. 3, pp. 124-127. See also press of February 24, 1944. 18. The New York Times, April 28, 1944. 273 creditor relations. It is worth noting that the American National Association of Manufacturers takes a decidedly unfavorable view of intergovernmental loans as trade-promoting agencies. In a re- port made public on February 7, 1945, the Association says: There are few inst