ental principle is the golden key to all creation: in particular, to the bodily life of mar Again in contrast to the Orient, Christians may neither despise nor abuse the body. Only the ignorance of modern times has supposed that there is a body-soul antithesis in Christianity. The temple of the spirit, as its instrument, may indeed be subject at times to oner- ous demands-as every creative worker knows-and in the nature of the case cannot be an end in itself; but its prestige is surely at- tested by the wondrous fertility of the Christian era in all the arts including the art of bodily adornment. "The bible," says Niebuhr "knows nothing of a good mind and an evil body"; and in an acute analysis he makes a fruitful comparison with Greek rationalism. 10 In their ascription of divinity to pure reason, conceived as some thing quite separate from the sensual and appetitive life, both Plato and Aristotle casually annihilate the individual human being. so that in their systems, as in all later rationalism of that type, "in- dividuality is no significant concept, for it rests only upon the par- ticularity of the body." The Greek philosophers who adopted the Christian interpreta- tion were well aware that the old doctrine of nature had worn thin- in fact, it had broken into two pieces. One piece, made out of the primordial element, was cynical and hedonistic, and has survived as an academic and aesthetic curiosity; the other piece, embodying the teleological emphasis, had the germ of a tre- mendous dynamism. For it was not to something more universal. but to something more perfect than any human ordinance that Antigone really appealed. It was no falling back on universal prac- 10. Ibid., p. 7 et seq. THE CHRISTIAN SYNTHESIS 51 tice, no expression of a naïve naturalism, that made Socrates drink the hemlock or Christ carry the cross: on the contrary, it was the very uniqueness of those actions that established their sovereignty ver the minds and hearts of men. Paul then, going