genius in the best way he could to his own advantage, and for the benefit of the country.9 Mr. Thompson's position is both significant and familiar. He would have agreed enthusiastically with the majority of the United States Supreme Court in Adkins v. Children's Hospital (1923) denying the minimum wage law to women: "To sustain the individual freedom of action contemplated by the Constitution is not to strike down the 9. Reprinted from the Parliamentary Debates in Bland, A. E., Brown, P. A., and Tawney, R. H., English Economic History: Select Documents, pp. 582-584. CAPITAL AND LABOR 131 common good, but to exalt it; for surely the good of society as a whole cannot be better served than by the preservation against arbitrary restraint of the liberties of its constituent members." Mr. Thompson, like Justice Sutherland, achieved in a sentence the transition that English law had been so doubtful about-from liberty to trade without restriction on the treatment of goods to liberty to produce without restriction on the treatment of human beings. In fact, by the time Parliament had made up its mind to the former it was in full retreat from the latter; but in 1800 Mr. Thompson's "liberty" triumphed. The wage earners, already denied the exercise of self-defense, were now deprived of public defense also. The need for a redefinition of the duty of government to the mass of propertyless wage earners was met with the entirely novel contention that it had no duty at all. That, rather than any mere technical applications of water or steam power, was the real in- dustrial revolution. ยง 5 FOR nearly a hundred years in England-for more than that in America-the relation of government to wage-earning labor was mainly determined by the act of abdication with which the nine- teenth century opened; and the common attitude to protective legislation is even yet influenced by it. It must therefore be em- phasized that the rejection of state responsibility was an ab- normal and revolutionary