uthority in the state or the church which was unknown to the Middle Ages. The only sovereignty they recognized was that of the law; and even that was subject to the law of God or nature." 2 It was evident-far more evident then than now-that the authority of the law could not, by its very nature, be merely local; and the conviction inspired the attempt to maintain a su- preme authority in the secular sphere, whose title should be above that of all local lords and princes. Thus the cherished unity of the world was to be retained in the temporal no less than in the spiritual order. It was a noble dream: perhaps more than a dream. But just as a traveler can see the distant summit more clearly than the broken ground between, so the vision of an earthly unity was lost in the actualities of the immediate struggle. The imperial title enhanced. but did not supersede, the nascent kingship. Its prestige enabled 2. Carlyle, A. J., Mediaeval Political Thought, IV, Part 3, chap. iii. THE BREAKDOWN OF UNIVERSALITY 61 the latter to extend its scope and strengthen its authority; but it could not bind the newer groupings in a lasting unity. Under stress of necessity and in closer conformity with economic culture, the kingship was hardening in the rigidity of feudalism. A system of specific sovereignty was evolving which, despite its successive borrowings from the imperial ideas, resisted in the long run all attempts to perpetuate the imperial reality. As Bryce points out, the differences between civitas, regnum, and imperium became mere differences in size. The imperial crown became merely a prize in the struggle for power, with which even the Papacy, in its temporal aspect, frequently found itself in conflict. And with that, the ideal itself began to lose attraction. "As a matter of fact," says Gierke, "the principle of the Universal State was assailed while as yet the principle of the Universal Church was not in jeopardy. Especially in France, we hear the doctrine that the one- nes