he growth of community in the nineteenth century was a result of what the French and English doctrinaires did to the conception of "nature." Adam Smith's nature was after all a rather benign old beldam with a very respectable lineage-he was not a Scottish professor of moral philosophy for nothing. It was a very different sort of "nature" that fixed, for Ricardo, "the natural price of labor" at bare subsistence level, and decreed that wages should never rise above it. The absence of any corresponding limit to rents and profits (James Mill) clearly showed where nature's purpose lay. The invisible hand threw off the velvet glove to ad- minister an iron law. If the landlord's share appeared at times excessive, rents "were a most real and essential part of the whole value of the national property, and placed by the laws of nature where they are" ( Malthus). Nature, following the merest of hints from Adam Smith, modeled her nineteenth-century garb on the  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 134 "well-contrived machine." Legislation, if Mirabeau and Bentham were right, was to degenerate from an art to a science; and po- litical economists stood ready to show you the works. J. S. Mill was expressing the faith of 1830 when he wrote, "the laws and conditions of the production of wealth partake of the nature of physical truths." Mill lived long enough to defy the god of the machine; but his American disciple John Bates Clark, in 1890 nailed the thesis to the door of the steel age: "It is the purpose of this work to show that the distribution of the income of society is governed by a natural law, and that this law, if it worked with out friction, would give to every agent of production the amount of wealth which that agent creates." 10 Trade-unions were fric- tion: minimum wage laws were friction: the well-contrived ma- chine, if only it were let alone, would produce not only goods -but justice! It was that idea, embodied in the very phrase "social science." which rendered orthodox economics