arrot or a cow in a field might feel itself free, in that the conative impulses of its being were adequately realized. but since it has none, the term does not apply. Freedom for man means opportunity to frame and realize intentions, to do some- thing, to speak and act in this way or in that according to choice- and though you may produce volumes to prove that the choice is illusory, any man knows the difference between having and not having it. Now the influences that determine such choice are profound and complex. What freedom will actually mean to the individual runs the full gamut of human possibility. It will normally mean some sort of intended activity-not even the basic appetites can be satisfied without that; but as to the kind of activity, we can say only two things. One, it will normally mean a chance to work that is, to devote effort to an anticipated result that will be serv iceable to the man and his mate. We can be sure of that, inasmuch as it is the material basis of the relationship between man and nature-as Locke so clearly discerned. Two, it will normally mean activity that wins the esteem of other people-as Cumberland and his successors quite rightly insisted; for that is the practical basis of social cohesion. That is all we can say; and there will be excep- tions even to that-oddities for whom freedom means only the chance to vegetate, or to prey on others: abnormalities that present no serious problem. But the manifold activities that freedom will normally mean can never be catalogued. Who does not know of some scientist, poet, artist, contemplative, who contentedly ac- cepts a subsistence that any trade-unionist would scorn, so long as he can be free to burn up his life for the bit of light it may VALLEY OF DRY BONES 163 throw into human darkness? Men die not for freedom in the abstract, but for freedom to pursue or preserve some line of ac- livity of whose value to mankind they are utterly convinced. And who has not at least read what a mocke