s the sole end and purpose of all production," the interest of the con- sumer ought to prevail. So stated, it seemed almost self-evident. ยง 3 THAT principle had in fact been the dominant rule of Catholic England. It permeated the common law, with its abhorrence of extortioners, monopolists, and usurers; and it furnished the gen- eral setting within which the relations between government and wage labor were determined. The development of English labor law must always be viewed in conjunction with the constant cir- cumscription of the gilds, and the laws against engrossing, re- grating, and forestalling. All are parts of one policy which can be seen in embryo as early as the reign of Edward III: a policy based in the main on the interests of the consumer, for whom the crown felt itself responsible. The Ordinance of Labourers of 1349, and the confirming statute of two years later, do indeed prohibit the wage earners of town and country from using their enhanced bar- gaining power produced by the great plague to their individual advantage; but they equally enjoin that "butchers, fishermen, hostlers, brewers, bakers, poulterers and all other sellers of vict- uals whatsoever shall be bound to sell such victuals for a reason- able price . . . so that such sellers shall have a moderate profit and not excessive." It is not the policy of the wage-fixing clauses of the statutes to depress real wages as such; and money wages are controlled as part of the general endeavor to keep prices reason- able. The fact becomes patent when the cost-of-living principle of wage regulation is introduced in 1389. And the earliest anti- combination laws-very severe ones-are directed against the merchants, not the workpeople. The loosening of gild control in the early sixteenth century was the prelude to a complete transformation of economic society. Henry VIII, in the violence of his assault on an order that was already in process of fundamental change, proved to be even more of a revolutionary