rmed when fate permitted a small-town Presbyterian from the southern United States to refashion the polity of Europe. Ruggiero, who is far more friendly to the Calvinist tradition than other liberal historians, rightly emphasizes its role as "an education of the will and the character. It worked for con- scientiousness and rectitude. It gave a systematic direction to the development of the individual's activities. As such, it was an im- mense expansive power in the modern world." 7 It certainly was. The doctrine of predestination provided a plausible pretext, when occasion demanded, for forgetting about the other world and con- centrating on this; and to say so is not to impugn the good faith of the devotees. The pamphleteer of 1671 was no doubt quite sin- cere when he said: "There is a kind of natural unaptness in the Popish religion to business, whereas on the contrary among the Reformed, the greater their zeal, the greater their inclination to trade and industry, as holding idleness unlawful. . . . The do- mestic interest of England lieth in the advancement of trade by removing all obstructions both in city and country, and providing such laws as may help it, and make it most easy, especially in giv- ing liberty of conscience to all Protestant Non-conformists, and denying it to Papists." 8 6. Ibid., pp. 187-188. 7. Ruggiero, Guido de, History of European Liberalism, p. 15. 8. Quoted in Tawney, R. H., Religion and the Rise of Capitalism, p. 180.  86 THE SECULAR STATE THE LIBERAL TRADITION France, Spain, and Portugal might have been cited to show that Catholic states were no more indifferent than Protestant ones to the trading opportunities of the age of discovery; it was by the war against the Dutch that England was most frankly committed to a purely commercial basis of foreign policy. Commercial wars have certain advantages over dynastic or religious ones, in that they can be carried on more effectively in peacetime, and offer more tangible prizes. They entail, h