or the moment consider: ideally it vindicates Burke's theory of representative government-which, says Lord Acton, "laid down for ever the law of the relations be- tween members and constituencies, which is the innermost barrier against the reign of democratic force." 2 The elected person, as all save those of the extreme left and right would now agree, repre- sents not the interest of a particular section but that of the com- monweal: "You choose a member, indeed, but when you have chosen him he is not a member of Bristol, but he is a member of Parliament." 3 What he owes his constituents is not obedience to their mandates-or, as it works in practice, the mandates of a mere majority of them-but the exercise of his independent industry and judgment in the interest of the whole nation. Logically and philosophically, that is the only answer. Actually, with the preva- lence of "coupon candidates," instructed delegations, electoral 2. Acton, Lord, Letters to Mary Gladstone (1880), p. 97. 3. Burke, Edmund, Speech to the Electors of Bristol (3 Nov. 1774), Works, II, 96. LIBERALISM AND CONSERVATISM 9 machines, organized pressure groups, and expensive publicity agents, it remains an ideal-though an ideal more generally aimed at, and more often approximated, than the cynics are willing to admit. The really difficult objection is that which modern French politics has vividly illustrated: what is to prevent these so in- dependent legislators running off in a hundred different direc- tions, so that the electorate behind them loses all sense of coördi- nated purpose, and eventually of common existence? To that Burke had his answer-for he was well aware of the danger-and the answer is what immediately concerns us. Or- ganized groupings of opinion were in his day called "factions," and the word carried much of the opprobrium that the word "lob- bies" bears for us. Burke lifted the idea of organization to a higher level, gave it deeper foundations, stuck to it at a tragic price. Pol