-and what a theory is that which begs the entire question in the name it gives itself! Or, granting the profound theorem that hat a man acts in such and such a way because he is a such-and-such kind of crea- ture, what kind of creature really is he? Answer, by your leave: he is the kind of creature who acts in such and such a way because he is a such-and-such kind of creature. If you insist beyond that. the nothing-but fallacy will poke its inconvenient head out of the laboratory slop pail. § 7 THE psychological version of biological determinism was furnished by Doctor Freud. The patient and voluminous work of that curi- See Meg. Sulla ous personality has without doubt been a stronger enemy of Chris- tianity than all the naïve atheisms fed to the very young; for it Sheen'oven founded a fellowship of devotees who considered themselves so non at .Parte exceptionally mature that they were not so much hostile as su- all subsequent perior to religion. They had their own; and a very potent cult it immer on This was. THE POSITIVIST ATTACK 215 Like all cults that amount to anything, it had a core of genuine insight and efficacy, which it proceeded to embody in a system of myth and symbol so well worked out that the apostles, initiates wod fellow travelers completely forgot that the entire conceptual outfit was in fact only myth and symbol. Indeed, as the system developed, the Doctor forgot it himself; and his attitude toward heresy, persisting in many of his followers, plainly showed that something more than a purely scientific motivation was at work. That was what gave the thing its power: it satisfied, at least for a while; it reached the soul, and effected a real conversion. The exploration of the atavistic strains in human nature paral- leled, and supplemented, the biological dogma we have been dis- cussing; and the practitioners had no difficulty in showing how strong and how dynamic these strains were. It seemed to follow and this was the therapeutic secret-that to gi