y some modern sociologists as a stick to beat the Church, has by this time been so battered by the course of events that it is broken past all mending. Instead, we are now offered pessimistic cyclical theories, revivals of ideas that have found currency for millennia when things were going badly. But in fact the pessimism of the latter view is as fantastic as the optimism of the former. Both alike rest on foundations far too shallow to be deemed historical, and can be made plausible only by doing the utmost violence to the record of events. It is true, of course, that looking backward we discern periods of high attainment, very various in quality, followed by periods of decline, of transition and confusion; but the attempt to see in THE POSITIVIST ATTACK these any formal pattern, especially a pattern of deterministic character, involves a degree of abstraction and generality that is dangerous to the integrity of historical study, and much too thin to substantiate any philosophy of either collective or individual Iffe. Furthermore, all such efforts involve and rest upon a concep- vion of time that has been rendered invalid, not only by the de- velopment of modern philosophy since Kant, but also by the schievements of modern science itself. No student who is looking for a trend or a meaning in history will ever find it in the theories of positivist sociology, because the very postulates are such as to exclude the kind of trend or meaning he is looking for. ii-A purely secular interpretation of social life, either historical or contemporary, has an inherent tendency to become utopian, in terms of the only category that it knows-the material. Early Christianity found here its first and most formidable obstacle. All the discussion of the nature of the Kingdom of God is intended to lift human hopes and aspirations to a plane on which they would not be doomed to endless and bitter disappointment. Modern Christianity has had precisely the same task in confronting both the r