jective approach, in modern times, aroused the first chock about chronology. The work of the historians-many of shem quite orthodox-in extending our knowledge of the pre- Roman world made it evident that by no possible interpretation muld the chronological scheme of the Old Testament be made tally with the record. This was received by many who should have known better as an attack on religion. the habit of regarding the Bible as a magical history book was matched by the habit of regarding it as an encyclopaedia. The growth in popular knowledge of the natural order therefore created another commotion. Scientists found themselves com- nelled to choose between adhering to what they indubitably inew, or honestly thought they knew, and accepting a literal interpretation of Semitic cosmology. The legends of the creation, of Moses and the Red Sea, Joshua and the sun and moon, Jonah and the whale, thus appeared as religious issues. Most of the scien- lists, as both the Church and the Gospel enjoin them, preferred to continue using their minds. Darwin brought on the climax. It must be emphasized that the main responsibility for the ensuing crisis rests neither on the scientists nor on the Church, but on Protestant bibliolatry, which in certain backward parts of the world, by the twentieth century, had degenerated into rank super- stition. The advance of scholarly criticism into the literature of the New Testament was mostly carried on by Christian scholars, for the simple reason that they were familiar with and interested in the feld; but their results were eagerly seized upon and interpreted by men working in other fields whose minds were already made up about the religious issue. Some of these interpreters had, or professed to have, extraordinarily naïve ideas about religion. For instance Conybeare somewhere picks up the biblical phraseology about "the right hand of God" and has a lot of fun with the notion of a god who had right and left hands. Of course Conybeare knew fa