system. "To the Stoics," says Barker, "Nature was synonymous with Reason and Reason was synonymous with God. They believed that the true city or polity of mankind was a single 'city of God' or cos- mopolis (transcending the old historical and positive cities), and that all men were united, as reasonable creatures, in this city of God, which was also a city of Reason and of Nature." 8 Within this ideal city-whose ways Augustine was later to explore-ran the common law of all humanity as God had made it; and all men ( and women, and slaves ) were equal. 6. Xenophon, Memorabilia, iv, 4 ( Dakyns ). 7. Oedipus Tyrannus, 853 ff. ( Campbell). 8. Gierke, O. F. von, Natural Law and the Theory of Society, Introduction, p XXXV. 47 Obviously, we are far away, in this realm of discourse, from the conception of what is "natural" in the sense of what is actual, pri- mordial, or universal. The most one can say is that such a program represents a potentiality, universal in that it is not confined to any chosen people, or class, or elite-which is of course precisely what St. Paul did say; but how to get it realized, bring it to earth, put the necessary power behind it-as to that, the classical tradition had in the end no answer. "The philosophers," says Reinhold Niebuhr, "were optimistic in their confidence that the wise man would be virtuous; but alas, they had no confidence that many would be wise. The Stoic Chrysippus could conceive happiness only for the wise and was certain that most men were fools. The Stoics tended on the one hand to include all men in the brotherhood of man on the ground that they all had the spark of divine reason; but on the other hand they pitied the multitude for having no obvious graces of rationality. Thus their equalitarianism rapidly degenerated into an aristocratic condescension not very different from the Aristo- telian contempt for the slave as a 'living tool.' Seneca, despite his pious universalism, prays 'forgive the world: they are all fools.'" 9