s. - 5. State versus cartel. - 6. The foreign-trade out- look. - 7. The role of competition. XIV. LIBERALISM IN CRISIS 279 1. The foundation of law. - 2. Justice versus opinion. - 3. The state in business. - 4. Special problems: the small man. - 5. Agriculture. - 6. Conservation. - 7. The full employment policy. - 8. The welfare state. - 9. Beveridge in excelsis. XV. ECHO OF AN OLD SONG 303 313 INDEX T THE crying need of modern liberalism is for a clearer percep- tion of principle. A great tradition-the oldest and richest in political history-is all but lost in a fog of careless words and empty phrases. Particularly in America, the term "liberal" is being used to cover policies ranging from nineteenth-century laissez faire to dictatorial collectivism; more, it is being deliber- ately misapplied by persons whose programs, whatever their mer- its, are in temper and outlook, as to means as well as ends, radically alien to the liberal tradition. This has become possible because the public and the popular press have almost forgotten the existence of political principle in the sense in which Jefferson and Lincoln, Acton and Gladstone understood it; nor have they found in recent events, domestic or international, much to remind them. The political life of our time has shown a passion for quick returns. Since the century opened, popular attention in France, Germany, England, America has been increasingly focused on short-run tangible objectives. Measures to bring specific material benefits to the nation, or to whatever groups or classes could secure control, have engrossed the public interest, raising the political temperature while they shortened the political perspective; so that along with considerable achievement there developed a growing instability. A new and dangerous temper pervaded public life as the ability to envisage policy in the larger and more permanent sense tended to disappear. The kangaroo beat both the donkey and the elephant. But the true life of a commu