. Hedges, R. Y., and Winterbottom, A., Legal History of Trade Unionism, chap. ii; see also Bryan, J. W., Development of the English Law of Conspiracy ( Johns Hopkins Studies in Historical and Political Science, Series XXVII), chap. v.  128 THE LIBERAL TRADITION protection and advancement of their economic interests, it still accepted, at least in principle, the duty of safeguarding the eco- nomic welfare of the industrial masses. The real criticism of the act of 1726 is that it did not affect equally both sections of the industrial community." 8 The fact that the ideal of the well-regu- lated state had been virtually abandoned by the middle of the eighteenth century in respect of domestic trade and production while it remained in respect of labor, now worked to the employers advantage; but the combination of workmen, if indeed it was s a crime, was a crime against a state that was still supposed to see that justice was done them. And responsible opinion was torn be- tween the novel idea of leaving workmen and masters to fight i out, with no confidence that justice would be the outcome, and persisting in the attempt to enforce standards of economic fair- ness in circumstances that were yearly becoming more compli- cated-and more inequitable. For in the days of cottage industry and the putting-out system, most families could still get some elements of a subsistence from their own resources, which put a floor under real wages; but when power herded them into the factories, the bottom dropped out. ยง 4 THE British decision to oppose by force the expansive phase of the French Revolution precipitated a social crisis in both Eng- land and Ireland for which neither thought nor feeling was as yet prepared. The results followed the usual pattern of war periods. a feverish acceleration of the processes of social metabolism that were already operative, with a compensating debility and slow convalescence afterward. On the land, the position of British and Irish agriculture was di