by consent: qualifications. ยง 1 S ELDOM has the riddle of freedom versus organization, lib- erty versus stability, the party of progress versus the party of order, been so dramatically presented as in the Greek re- publics. They failed to solve it, and their failure was their doom. The freedom kept running off into anarchy, the order into tyranny, and the whole process stalled on the notion of the city-state- just as Western Europe stalled on the notion of the nation-state- until sheer necessity, in the guise of superior force, cleared the way for a fresh assault upon the problem: as it always does when human intelligence fails to answer the demands of human destiny. But in the course of that failure, and the reflections of the Greeks themselves upon it, practically all the political problems of the Western world received their first systematic exposition; and an ideal was launched, a standard raised, to which men would still rally twenty-four centuries later-as witness a curious incident of recent Greek history. The year 1937 saw yet another dictator ruling Athens; and the Metaxas government, facing the same old riddle of liberty versus stability, instructed the school teachers dealing with ancient Greece to substitute a passage of Plato for the famous speech of Pericles in Thucydides' history "because the praise of democratic ideals given in the funeral speech is very exaggerated, and may be misunderstood by pupils as an indirect criticism of the authori- tarian system of government and of the general trends in the mod- ern state." 1 More candid evidence of the vitality of ideas could hardly be devised! 1. New Statesman, June 26, 1937.  For: 22 THE LIBERAL TRADITION What did Pericles say that was so dangerous? Here is the famous passage: An Athenian citizen does not neglect the state because he takes care of his own household; and even those of us who are engaged in business have a very fair idea of politics. We alone regard a man who takes no interest in public a