of anything is impossible without a standard. The assumption that out of the clash of group interests as such an harmonious synthesis can be devised or discovered is simply a return to natural law by the back win- dow because the key of the door has been lost. As Woodrow Wil son said in 1918, "interest does not bind men together: interest separates men . . . There is only one thing that can bind people together, and that is common devotion to right." 18 The emphasis is on the word common. Only where there exists a fundamental agreement, not perhaps of explicit belief, but of outlook, feeling and value, is true toleration possible. It was this that both Burke and Acton had in mind; it was to this that Catholic scholars referred -as they still do-when they made the secular state subject to natural law; it was this that made political freedom possible. De- stroy that foundation and everything else falls to pieces. The third of the liberal postulates is the logical consequence of the other two. First, it was held, political authority as such must be monistic, for reasons of sheer practical expediency. Second. it is limited by the natural law-the sense of right and reason that informs the minds of Christian men. Third, its exercise must be held to a minimum, both extensively and intensively, to preserve the peace and freedom of community which is the sole reason for its existence. This was the principle the Politiques drew from the wars of religion; and their work was not in vain. It was the ground on which Mirabeau, Paine, Madison, and Jefferson took their historic stand. Said Mirabeau: "The most unlimited liberty of religion is in my eyes a right so sacred that to express it by the word toleration seems to me a sort of tyranny, since the authority which tolerates might also not tolerate." 19 His point was that the state had no such authority one way or the other; and the American Constitution expressly implements that contention. Its framers realized that the secular s