equality. The French declaration which followed (in both senses) the American one thirteen years later repeats the proposition, but adds "as regards their rights"; and in the preamble it claims "the auspices of the Supreme Being." But apart from such correspondence with him as the men of 1789 may have had, the statement remains a bare assertion; and the com- mon man of today would be hard pressed to state the ground of it. If one were to ask him what he meant by saying that all men are equal, he would probably reply that "the other fellow has his rights the same as I have." But has he? How do you know? There are plenty of people in this modern world who deny that, in theory and practice, and they are not confined to Nazi Germany. And where, one might add, do you get yours? You are probably not the equal in wisdom, talent, energy, skill, of those who are set over you; in fact, you chose them-or you are supposed to have chosen them-because of their superior endowment: do you mean that nonetheless you are their equal, and that their rights are no greater than yours? Yes, emphatically: the average American does mean precisely that, and he means it with a depth of conviction that is unique among political societies. But if we still press him for proof, he will probably say-if he responds at all to a demand that seems obviously crazy- Well, we are all human beings, aren't we? And in some such statement as that we shall discover the core of a society which, as T. S. Eliot said, so far as it is civilized is still Christian.14 For it is only in the Christian doctrine of man that we can find a firm and reasoned ground for that American affirmation. There alone is it explicitly argued that in every human being is something which transcends the pragmatic valuations of the temporal order. There alone do we find the pattern of a community of spiritual beings among whom-on its own plane and in its own ethos- there is no higher and lower, no superior and inferior; by which every po