ifeste de l'esprit" in other nations. Others have, he admits as this way rallyhow their points and their local patriotisms, like that of the mountain dweller for his mountain; but the love of France is of a larger kind. "Nous l'aimons, parce qu'elle nous paraît la meilleure patrie pour l'homme en général; nous voudrions y donner le droit de 9. Innes, A. T., England under the Tudors, p. 425. VALLEY OF DRY BONES cité à tout le genre humain. Nous l'aimons, parce que toutes choses 177 nous y paraissent plus conformes à la raison." Traces indeed of the spirit of humanity are everywhere; but "notre privilège à nous, c'est d'en représenter le plus de traits essentiels." In short, «c'est le christianisme qui a fait de l'esprit français l'image la plus complète et la plus pure de l'esprit humain." 10 That, as the fol- lowers of Maurras were prompt to recognize, was an excellent translation of the old promise that the meek should inherit the earth. A different version, it is true, was popular east of the Rhine; but what could one expect of a people that had learned, not merely from its politicians but from its moral philosophers, from Fichte to Eucken, to regard itself as "the people of the Soul," and saw the 1914 war as part of "the civilizing task which the decrees of Provi- dence have assigned to us"? "The depth of feeling common to us Germans," said Eucken, "has become a power controlling our activity and permeating our history to a degree unknown to any other people. In this sense we have a right to say that we form the soul of humanity, and that the destruction of the German na- ture would rob world history of its deepest meaning." Surely no one would accuse the Germans of being clannish about it; for as their philosophy broadened out from precedent to precedent, the claims of mere political nationality were superseded by the great discovery of the master race. They did not demand sole credit for that contribution to human brotherhood; they were only too will- ing to sh