sistently applied their religious postulates to the problems and practices of everyday life: too persistently, in fact. Now both were rejected. But after the clergy-or the more ac- commodating part of them-had taken the oath to William, the English Church was in no position to admonish the state. The middle ground was vacant. The theology of nature came in to fill  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 116 the gap; and as Gierke remarks, the size of the gap it had to fill was "astonishing." We can watch its progress all the way from Luther to Adam Smith. Here is Luther: "If a judge have love and wisdom, law- books are worse than useless to him . . . Without love and natu- ral right [Naturrecht] you will never be in accord with the will of God, though you have devoured the jurists and all their books." 13 Just how true was that? And how useful? Here is Smith talking about the law which permitted parish officers to seize an unemployed man and send him back to the place of his birth so as to get rid of him: "To remove a man who has committed no an misdemeanor from the parish where he chooses to reside is it evident violation of natural liberty and justice." 14 But was evident? Evident to whom? Not, apparently, to the people who passed the law. It is to be noted that the argument, like so much that is strong. est in The Wealth of Nations, is not economic. Smith has been too rigidly identified with a particular economic doctrine. His plea for freedom of industry and trade was part of his general case for liberty as a natural right; it was not confined, as his Ger- man critics have maintained, to calculations of mere economic advantage. Even the great assault on the system that produced the American revolt rests on other grounds than those of mere expediency. "To prohibit a great people from making all that they can of every part of their own produce, or from employing their stock and industry in the way that they judge most advantageous to themselves, is a manifest violation of the most