e in a great while something will trans- pire that lies completely on the line; such work, enduring through the years, has something of the miraculous about it, conveying not so much pleasure as a mysterious healing and reassurance, like the beauty of nature. But it is not merely in contemplation, but in action that we live; and the results of our action may never remain, if ever they were, perfect. Atlantis is drowned, we are thrust out of the garden, the golden age was always a long time ago. Systems of thought, sys- tems of science, systems of society, in so far as they become closed become obsolete. Either we preserve their open-endedness, or what we call the force of circumstances will tear them open-and we ourselves shall be its instruments. That is the recurrent tragedy of history. Surely we must defend our institutions, our values, our security, our interests, our heritage. Yes indeed; but in defending them against challenge we are too easily tricked into defending them against change. The role of liberalism is to forestall the catastrophic phase of change. ยง 3 WHAT Bacon wrote of death is true of destiny. "Men fear death as children fear to go in the dark, and as that natural fear in chil- dren is increased with tales, so is the other." But what an effort of faith and imagination it takes to conceive of social change in  306 THE LIBERAL TRADITION 307 optimistic terms! Of course, the apostles tles of "progress" could be optimistic: more science, more power, more travel, more bath- tubs, more contraceptives, more medicines, more "education." But most of that might prove to be involution rather than evolu- tion; as one meets it in the popular literature it implies the ex- tension rather than the modification of the current set of values. Catholics and Chinese, the Latins and the Irish, all men every- where, are to take it and like it-since it appears they are going to get it anyway. A real modification of the set of values demands far more imagination. There a