re you press this appeal to uni- versality as the foundation of law and morals the more difficulties you get into; until it becomes evident that whatever any theorist will pick out of Nature's cornucopia is a carefully selected sample of what he wishes to find there. Philosophers have a habit of salting their mines. ยง 2 WHAT the classical thinkers of the main tradition really meant by nature was not the phenomenal world as such, with its ceaseless flow and change, nor even those elements in it that appear to be most frequent or general. They meant the force behind it that makes for order and harmony, the regularity that makes under- standing possible: that was the universal element they were look- ing for, alike in the material world and in the affairs of men. The quest gets under way with the attempt of the early scientists to understand the external world-that is, to perceive system or order in it-in contrast to the mythical or semimythical cosmogonies of their predecessors. Heraclitus and Anaximander are objective in their attitudes, to the extent, at least, of not shirking the dilemma with which their senses present them. The dicta of Heraclitus con- cerning universal substance, polarity, and flow belong to the realm of fact and hypothesis-formula-rather than law or principle. THE CHRISTIAN SYNTHESIS 45 But as his thought develops we trace the imputation of the value- judgment by which the transition from formula to principle is made. The idea of measure, for example, clearly foreshadows the conception of political justice in Plato. The notion of an "invisible harmony" in which all coexistent discords are resolved marks a further advance; and the idea of universal law existing from all time becomes clearly philosophical when we find the epithet "divine" imputed to it. The transition from formula to principle by means of the value-judgment is complete in such dicta as: "Wis- dom is one thing. It is to know the thought by which all things are steered through all t