its. It does not assert that personal life is separate, or separable, from the collective; but it refuses to regard you and me, ser friends and relations, with all our troublesome characteristics oud idiosyncrasies, as a mere precipitate thrown off from some- thing vaguely called the "environment" by a sort of biological catalysis. Where positivist theory talks about "individuals" liberal- som talks about "persons": meaning human beings taken one at a lime, each as valuable as every other. In so doing, it recognizes, perhaps more clearly than other creeds have done, the differences of function and capacity on the plane of social and material events; but if all valuations are to be derived from, and confined to, that plane, then much that we regard as finest and truest in human ex- perience and achievement is excluded from the system. It is rather difficult, for example, to fit the essential quality of Dante's Vita Nuova into that sort of world. But does the difficulty arise from the shortcomings + un developed stage of social science, o pomthe falsity of any such wald ? ยง 6 FOR its more solid justification, cultural determinism falls back on economic determinism on one hand and biological determinism on the other. Fortunately for science, biological determinism has little to do with biology. The theory that conduct is finally deter- mined by the structures and processes revealed in the laboratory is entirely extrinsic to the research itself; it is made plausible only by an a priori exclusion of the phenomena and possibilities that conflict with it. Very often this preliminary exclusion passes un- Wnoticed. It is then easy to convince the unwary that what a man "feels, thinks, and does is what he is compelled to feel, think, and do by his biological heritage and constitution; that apart from these, mental and spiritual activity are simple delusions; that the kind of response a man will make to a given situation is "deter- mined" by the biological factors. Well, of co