d-and the problem of historical interpretation given a fresh complexity. Two major distinctions must be borne in mind in our approach to the mainsprings of the modern world. First is the distinction between the Renaissance and the Reformation which Niebuhr has recently developed with such fruitful care. Liberalism inherits far more from the former than it does from the latter. "The renais- sance as a spiritual movement is best understood as a tremendous affirmation of the limitless possibilities of human existence, and as a rediscovery of the sense of a meaningful history."" To that im- pulse certainly belong the new interest in science and secular knowledge, the centrality of the individual, the growth of tolera- tion, and the atmosphere of "this-worldliness" in which wealth- whatever might be its fate at the gates of heaven-was a prize that even the Church would not disdain on earth. Within that 8. Weber, M., The Protestant Ethic, Foreword, p. 4. 9. Niebuhr, R., The Nature and Destiny of Man, II, 160.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 66 atmosphere the asceticism, the evangelistic poverty, of the Fran- ciscan spirituals became ipso facto an offense to Rome; and Luther was the consequence. To the Renaissance he contributed, as we shall see, only one thing, and that a very doubtful asset. With his great contempo- raries, Copernicus and Machiavelli, he had little in common; and his spiritual forebears, Huss whom he commended, Wyclif who taught Huss, touch the Renaissance only accidentally. The acci- dent lay in the use of printing. The printed Bible was-and in English was designed to be-a weapon against the Church. It was very effectively used, notwithstanding the rejoinder that since the Church had made the Bible there could lie no appeal against the living authority to the written letter. But since the Bible in the vernacular proved the greatest instrument of popu- lar education the Western world had hit upon, in that respect the Protestant movement may be held to have furthe