of foreign policy. Commercial wars have certain advantages over dynastic or religious ones, in that they can be carried on more effectively in peacetime, and offer more tangible prizes. They entail, however, acceptance of the rule that the gain of one group is the loss of another-though no true patriot, of course, ever lost any sleep over that. The policy of aiming at a "favorable" balance of trade by keeping imports be- low exports is part of the same pattern: it becomes absurd unless each nation is considered, and considers itself, in isolation. To that frame of mind both the energy of the Calvinists and their pro- pensity to think of themselves as a chosen people contributed hand- somely. ยง 4 BUT the national states, with Britain in the lead, were now enter- ing upon the truly modern period; which is characterized not so much by the use of physical force in collective competition as by the instrument of large-scale political debt; for without the latter the former could never have attained its current magnitude. The wise restraint of English foreign policy under Elizabeth was not unconnected with the shortage of ready money. The trick of inflation, to which Henry VIII had resorted, can seldom be worked twice on the same generation; and Elizabeth had to clean up the mess. Thenceforward, as everyone knows, the provision of ways and means proved a valuable instrument for bringing the execu- tive under control. In the course of the struggle to escape it. Charles I won a victory for absolutism that is still of some interest He needed ships, and for a quite laudable purpose. In his effort to raise the wind he strained the executive power to a degree which eventually called for special measures of correction; but he was enabled for the time being to "get away with it" by an opinion of the judges-whom of course he appointed-that His Majesty was the "sole judge" of the question whether the realm was in danger. Even so, however, he had to demand cash on the barrel Stuart c