f sovereignty itself must be curtailed if there was to be any chance of peace and freedom. Their unofficial spokesman was Jean Bodin: one of the precursors of modern liberalism. In their view sovereignty, the state, government, the prince, law itself, should be regarded in terms of function rather than authority. What function? Simply the function of creating and maintaining a political community. Bodin, avowedly following Aristotle, ap- proached the matter from an empirical and realistic standpoint; and to him the outstanding fact was that there cannot be more than one source of coercive law, whatever the form of govern- ment. He is, so to speak, an Austinian in this respect; like Hobbes, he adopts a monistic theory of sovereignty. But what he clearly wants is to preserve the ordered life of a free community; and this was what Hobbes really wanted too, in spite of his sardonic way of putting things. Hobbes speaks of the function of sovereignty as "the procuration of the safety of the people" and immediately goes on to explain that "by safety here is not meant a bare preservation but also all other contentments of life" 12 Hobbes's bark was always worse than his bite. But Bodin saw much more clearly than Hobbes that this involves limitation, as well as confirmation, of sovereign power. He holds his sovereign subject to natural law, though to nothing else; but this holding was to prove highly significant, for, as Gierke says, "the natural-law theory of the State was Radical to the very core of its being. It was directed . . . not to the purpose of scientific explanation of the past, but 12. Leviathan, Part 2, chap. xxx.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 94 THE SECULAR STATE to that of the.exposition and justification of a new future which was to be called into existence." 13 Bodin insists that the family is prior to the state, so the state must keep hands off. He puts pri- vate property also beyond the reach of the state, and argues there- fore that taxation may not be levied w