he situa- tion. The Roosevelt administration was more afraid of disillusion than it was of disunity; but both are on the way; the part of wis- dom is to seek for the most tolerable settlement compatible with strict realism in the given circumstances, without any pretense that the settlement can, or should, be more than tentative; then, in such breathing space as may be gained, to work resolutely and patiently at the foundations of a more genuine community. We must at length accept the task laid down by General Smuts when he signed the Covenant in 1919, namely, to transform the League of Nations into a league of peoples. In that enterprise the militant nation-states and their international force machine can be at best of only minor assistance. We must look elsewhere. Where shall we look? ยง 3 IN ATTEMPTING an answer to this question, both writer and reader must be on guard against the conventional assumptions. We are 6. Edwin L. James, in The New York Times, February 4, 1945. THE PEACE-BY-FORCE ILLUSION tempted and encouraged to suppose that some merely external readjustment in our ways of acting, some realignment of our col- 255 lective policies, practices, and lethal apparatus, will lead us into a new society; despite the unanimous testimony of history that the hope is vain. Broadly speaking, international (or better, super- national) ways of thinking, feeling, and acting cannot be simply superimposed on national ways. The larger mode will not embrace the smaller; it must replace it by means of a thorough permeation. Nor will it suffice to act on the assumption (even though it may be true) that this national way is superior to that national way. Perhaps only the immigrant knows both the truth and the fallacy of that assumption. The sense of superiority, the drive toward ego-maximation, are so deeply involved in the totemism of na- tionality that a forthright emancipation from it must be the cardi- mal aim of liberal policy. That aim, in the circumstances of today, i