eglect the state because he takes care of his own household; and even those of us who are engaged in business have a very fair idea of politics. We alone regard a man who takes no interest in public affairs, not as a harmless, but as a useless character; and if few of us are originators, we are all sound judges of policy. The great impediment to action is, in our opinion, not discussion, but the want of that knowledge which is gained by discussion preparatory to action. For we have a peculiar power of thinking before we act and of acting too, whereas other men are courageous from ignorance but hesitate upon reflection. . . . There is no exclusiveness in our public life, and in our private intercourse we are not suspicious of one an- other, nor angry with our neighbour if he does what he likes. While we are thus unconstrained in our private intercourse, a spirit of reverence pervades our public acts; we are prevented from doing wrong by respect for the authorities and for the laws, having an espe- cial regard to those which are ordained for the protection of the injured as well as to those unwritten laws which bring upon the transgressor of them the reprobation of the general sentiment.2 That was the gist of the panegyric, uttered at the beginning of a fratricidal war in which all the weaknesses of Greek democracy were to be fatally manifested. And the reason for its utterance, the motive of that proud and loving care with which the great his- torian defined the Greek ideal, was precisely that which in our own time has called forth so much writing about liberty and democ- racy. Freedom, like health, is seldom discussed until it is disappearing; then suddenly it changes from a postulate to a problem. The man, be he ancient Greek or modern German, who is free to do what he likes without incurring the suspicion or the anger of his neighbors, does not go about discussing the fact; so long as he can find some- thing satisfying to do, he does it, and talks about the job, t