root of mortality; and life the locus of the curve between. Much better now could men explain that state of tension which is consciousness and volition: the "borderline creature," as Evelyn Underhill calls him, would naturally feel the double pull. But if it is a pull upward on the root, it is also a pull downward on the ideal; thus full personality, not brain alone, becomes the vehicle of creativity in the time process. For only in personality is the pattern apprehended. There only, since any part of the curve implies the whole, is macrocosm in microcosm, eternity in every moment. Thence only arises the thrust of eternal becoming. Not therefore in the simple resolution of ma- terialism (where we are from ) nor in the simple resolution of mys- ticism (whither we are bound ) does our destiny permit us to dwell in peace. The way of life is open ended; for we are the process, personality is actuality, and love the hidden name that forms our world. 305 $ 2 BUT we do not proceed in a vacuum. Intelligence confronts in- ertia, becoming beats on formlessness: "the Boyg conquers but does not fight." Every creative intention lances as it were a vis- cous ether, that presses every achievement in upon itself and makes for closedness, finiteness, fixity-not without useful effect. Every. effort has its exhaustion point: the bounds of reason, the acme of generosity, the limit of forgiveness. But the limit seldom appears as the limit of effort, it appears as the limit of possibility; and every achievement is invested by the mirage of perfection. As the artist's effort is completed, how good the picture looks! But the chances are that never again will it look as good as it does at that moment. A week or two later the verdict will be: good so far-but thus and thus it might be better. Once in a great while something will trans- pire that lies completely on the line; such work, enduring through the years, has something of the miraculous about it, conveying not so much pleasure as a mys