personalities. The historical issue, as Ber- dyaev and many others now see it, is the defense of personality against the forces of a material civilization that tend to crush and annihilate it. This issue is different from, and much more profound than, the current controversies about democracy versus dictator- ship, socialism versus capitalism, and so forth; its argument pro- ceeds on a deeper level. One does a student no real service by allo allowing him to think that he can get at the value of an important work without the trouble of reading it; we shall therefore not try to summarize Berdyaev's treatment of the main issue. We may briefly notice his approach to that part of it in which liberalism is particularly concerned. Nineteenth-century liberalism, he thinks,9 actually developed into capitalism because it incorporated in its tradition a false individualism. "It is remarkable that great creative men have in fact never been individualists." They have often been soli- tary, unrecognized, or rebellious, but that is different; their valua- tion of themselves has not been egocentric, but evangelistic. In- dividualism is really the same sort of thing as collectivism viewed from the other end. The individual who thinks of himself as in contrast to the universe has already a mistaken aken apprehension of both; the quantitative relationship of part to whole does not, or should not, apply. The individualism of modern times, springing from Renaissance sources, was essentially "an escape from the world and society to the self, to its own soul, to the lyric, to poetry and music. The life of man's soul was much enriched, but the processes of dissociation of personality were put in train." True personality has no use for atomistic nor aggregative conceptions; it is unitary, and therefore free, creating a world of freedom. It naturally tends to establish communal and fraternal relations among men. It does not fight the state, as individualism pretended to do, insofar as the st