is heaven and life is integrated about its central direction. Moments like that are all that sustain the torture of artistic creation. In some sphere or other we all know them; too few of us know how dynamic in- tegration of that sort can be achieved for the whole of a li including that in us which binds us to our dead and lives beyon our dying. We have alluded to religion as the discipline which preserves in man his sense of proportion. That sense operates as it were three directions, which we may call upward, outward, and down- ward. First, it places the whole of man, the whole of humanit in right relation to what we call God-and also, let us remember to all in the universe that is not-God, that is anti-God. That is aspect of the matter, and of the human obligation, which the nineteenth-century optimists too glibly ignored. Wh What is this right relation (it is necessary to our argument that we put the ques- tion ) ? It is that which natural man has known since the dawn of history, it is simple worship: the attitude that propounds no theorem, makes no petition, but lies open like a leaf to the sun of being. Second, the sense of proportion places man in right rela- tion to his fellows through its application to family life and col- lective action of all sorts; it underlies therefore the philosophy of government, of political economy, of sociology and jurispru- dence. Third, it establishes a right relation between the faculties and attributes of bodily life, the appetites, passions, powers, and rational will; without which inner harmony neither the individual nor the society can ever know peace or freedom. And it is the very essence of religious teaching that these three modes of inte- gration are intimately related in the order in which we have placed them, that all swing upward to, and all depend on, the one su- REINTEGRATION 195 preme perception. If that is clear, then the living truth will inform the second and third spheres also; and if that is wrong then all e