herefore free, creating a world of freedom. It naturally tends to establish communal and fraternal relations among men. It does not fight the state, as individualism pretended to do, insofar as the state exercises necessary and useful functions The hour at which it must fight arrives when, owing to the con- dition of the people, the state becomes hypostatized and assumes the garb and trappings of sovereignty. "The idea of sovereignty in all its forms is slavery for man. The very seeking after sov- 9. Ibid., pp. 135-136, 145-146. REINTEGRATION oreignty is a great delusion. . . . There does not exist any sov- 193 ereignty at all." $ 5 WHAT is this condition of the people? Berdyaev calls it "a fallen undition." We have surveyed a good deal of its background, and certain of its economic and social aspects. Let us return for a mo- went to those more fundamental considerations at which we glanced in Chapter III ( ยง 5). The Christian doctrine of man, it was suggested, takes account of the fact that the mind can never define the life that is both mind and so much more than mind. It offers therefore an open-ended description of human nature that is both more complete and more dynamic than analytical methods can give; but it cannot present this, by the nature of the case, in terms of the natural sciences. In what modern philosophy calls existential terms, however, religion deals with the integral nature of man in relation to the integral nature of the universe; ond it thus operates as a discipline that preserves in man a sense of proportion. It saves him from hubris, self-conceit, on the one hand, and endows him with a certain dignity on the other. We get a hint of this when we compare the undertone of assurance in the art of the Catholic era with the clamant arrogance of modernity. Catholic religion is the historic form of man's total response to total being. It places the whole of man-body, mind, spirit-and the whole of society in their true relation to that which informs,