ted without much difficulty to various types of collectivism when the going got tough. The truer and older liberal tradition held that liberty was the supreme political end-period. Not because it would promote economic incentive, not because anything. Man is not born free, but freedom is true manhood. Life is freedom, and the adventure of life is finding out what freedom means and demands of a man. In the end, given liberty to learn, men will find out that freedom means community. Cobden advocated free trade not because he believed it would enlarge the bank deposits of London or the profits of Manchester, but because he believed in free men. Remove the fetters and obstructions which governments, laws, and customs have placed upon the free play of the harmonious forces which bind man to man, let their real community of interest have full sway to express itself in economic, intellectual and moral intercourse, [and] the false antagonisms which now divide nations, classes and individuals, will disappear and a positive harmony of mankind be established. So the removal of barriers upon human intercourse came to have the value of an actually constructive policy, liberating as it did the forces of so- cial harmony to weave their own pattern of human cooperation.4 But were "the forces which bind man to man" really harmonious? Were there any "forces of social harmony"? Was not the whole ideal utopian illusion? On the quantitative plane, it was. On that plane a vicious circle could arise. If the interests were merely ma- terial, then changing circumstances could demand the establish- ment of closed communities in which the sacrifice of freedom would be justified by the attainment of a material harmony of in- terests. The agent of that harmony would be the state; and on its abstract plane of action, coercion could override personality as the quantitative always seeks to override the qualitative. The de- terioration of international polity can be dated with some ac- 4. Hobson, J