isillusion; and it is brought to the latter bu an intellectual as well as a circumstantial nemesis. The foundation of Herbert Spencer's work was laid, and a good deal of the structure erected, before the publication of the Darwin Wallace theory. Spencer was confident he could achieve what to Comte had been only a distant possibility, namely, the reduction of all individual and social phenomena to a single unitary princi ple. His principle lay in an extremely arbitrary identification social with biological and ultimately physical processes. Taking of the theory of evolution-or his own idea of it-in his stride Spencer laid down the laws of progress with what he conceived to be scientific finality. So sure was he not only of the power but of the ultimate beneficence of the natural laws governing the "social organism" that he became the outstanding opponent of state interference; not because he liked anarchy, but because he was certain that the cosmic process, left to itself, would do a bet- ter job. As a critic of statism Spencer has not even yet been equaled Much of his comment has proved prophetic; for example: If the present drift of things continues, it may by and by really happen that the Tories will be defenders of liberties which the Liberals, in pursuit of what they think popular welfare, trample under foot. . Probably, however, the Liberal, and still more the subspecies Radical who more than any other seems under the impression that so long as he has a good end in view he is warranted in exercising over men all the coercion he is able, will continue to protest. . . . The function of Liberalism in the past was that of putting a limit to the powers of kings. The function of true liberalism in the future will be that of putting a limit to the powers of Parliaments.5 Spencer is acutely aware in his later work of the conflict between voluntary and coercive cooperation. He opposes not only Hobbes and Austin, but Bentham, in asserting the priority of individual right