n, resting on an old liberal principle: as the component organizations should be free of political coercion, so they must consent to decline political assistance. There is evidence that they would be willing, on the whole, to do this; but would American opinion let them? It must be frankly recognized that in the eyes of the rest of the world, American policy is now directed toward an aggressive trade drive backed by state aid and state subsidy; and official insistence on the sanctity of free competition is the conventional overture. Well, other na- tions have done it, and now is America's opportunity: fair enough. But in view of the fact that foreign trade is more of a life-and- death matter to several other countries than it is to America, com- petition on a national basis will be bitter and governments will not be able to stay out of it. Under such conditions it does not fol- low that a competitive price is ipso facto a fair price; it may be less fair than an agreed price, and a great deal more destructive. When the giants fight, small men have to run for cover, and a great deal of sound local business is trampled down; when the giants agree, small men may have their chance. There are certain widely held objections. The giants are bad diants. To one section of American opinion backed by a subsidized press, the mere fact that a man has achieved outstanding success financial or business management disqualifies him for any posi- hion of further public responsibility. This type of opinion affects to discern an altruism in labor organizations and their leaders that is superior to anything found among those responsible for major economic operations. It is best not to argue abou about the the degrees of altruism that adorn economic self-interest; and for the immediate issue the question is irrelevant. Whatever changes in the internal structure and con- trol of business the future may bring, the international issue will be the same: increasing cooperation of the major fun