t Ethic, p. 117.  84 THE LIBERAL TRADITION THE SECULAR STATE The psychological gratification thus offered is immense; it consti- tutes the magnetic element in the evangelism of all closed systems. and it manifests itself by necessity in the sphere of ethics. For that is the sphere in which the profession of a restrictive (by definition superior ) code can most promptly confirm the self-evaluation of the individual. Thus the one element of human nature that the puritan-whatever else he might do about it-could never afford to forget was sex; because that was the commonest means for creating within himself the requisite state of tension, which he could then discharge (not sublimate) on the rest of society, and so attain that intoxication of the ego which so easily passes for the sense of sanctity. It was this psychological appeal of Calvinism opposing and replacing the type of catharsis offered by Catholic religion, that made it popular. Its aristocratic and profoundly in- tellectual basis was dissolved, as the masses got hold of it, in an upsurge of primitivistic bibliolatry which countered the Counter Reformation with a new ultramontanism of the underprivileged. And between the two the English commonwealth was all but torn to pieces. In that juncture the doctrine of the divine right of kings had. as we said, a work to do. Not only were the temporal interests of the papacy opposing the crown of England; not only were the scholars of the Counter Reformation pressing the traditional op- position of the Church to secular absolutism; but on the other flank a more dangerous enemy had arisen. Presbyterian democ- racy, based on the unprovable (but perennial) assumption that the electors would elect the elect, claimed the censorship not only of policy but of morals-a sphere which the elders defined; and their doctrine, opposing the establishment "root and branch," as- serted the duty of the state to punish sin (papists were sinners ipso facto). Disfranchisement-as in Massachu