, tolerance, and progress. In this sense, and to this extent, their meaning reflects a very common usage. A liberal person is one who is "free with his money." Liberal hospitality implies plenty of free entertainment. A liberal attitude is one that tolerates, within very broad limits, freedom of thought, speech, and behavior. A liberal education, whatever else it may be, stands in contrast to a dogmatic and restrictive training. About all that can be said of a liberal arts college is that it is one that awards a bachelor of arts degree: the arts are varied and surprising. Origi- nally, however, the liberal arts were seven: grammar, logic, rhet- oric, arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, and music. And why were they "liberal"? Because they represented the rising value set upon free enquiry: upon "broadening the mind"-which indeed they aimed at. Thus grammar included the forms of literature, rhetoric (to train rhaetors, pleaders in court or assembly ) included law, geometry covered a wide and curious field of natural history; among the books were many encyclopaedias, some very diverting -one is reminded of the connection of modern liberalism with the French encyclopaedia of the eighteenth century. The scholastics, of course, intended that the liberal arts should find their consum- mation in the queen of the sciences; but the discipline is older than Christianity, with roots that even yet draw living water from the culture of Imperial Rome and the Athens of Pericles. But of liberalism as a social or political philosophy it is far LIBERALISM AND CONSERVATISM 5 harder to frame a definition. By that name it is a bare hundred years old«and today there are many who would celebrate the centenary with a wake. The vigor of political liberalism is well attested by the fury of its enemies. It was the pet aversion of both Lenin and Trotsky. It has been dissected and denounced by Stalin, Hitler, Mussolini, Pius IX, and Professor Laski. Dogmatists and determinists of the red or the bla