l impulse, while the country people acted, on the whole the other way: which does not in the least mean that the city people were impelled merely by a self-interested materialism. It was they, times without number, who backed the adventurers in ideas as stoutly as they backed the merchant adventurers, and paid the price-often with their lives-of opposing an authority which. in its centripetal impulse, tended to seek its allies in the country- side. But the dominance of the city is always dangerous; for its lan- guage, more abstract and purely rational than that of the land, has no words for the profound instincts of caution and continuity bred in the world of growing things; and its derivative activities con- stitute a sphere in which money, from being a good servant, easil becomes a bad master. The sixteenth-century looting of the Church we must remember, was promptly followed by a ruthless enclos- ing of the common lands, often by the beneficiaries; and the fact that some good came of it does not compel us to agree that the market for wool was a better criterion of policy than the fate of a few thousand illiterate cottagers. "The growth of a money econ- omy" is sometimes the polite historian's synonym for the spread of avarice; and the resources of the state for coping with it had. after all, been fatally impaired. Not so much by the break itself perhaps, as by that of which the break was so largely a symptom. We must not press our growing-up analogy so far as to make the whole development seem involuntary, inevitable, and therefore-such is our prejudice -beneficent. That was the superstition which marred so much of nineteenth-century liberalism. For if the liberal likes-as he does -to preen himself on the triumphs of human intelligence and vir- tue, he must admit no less frankly the operation, and the cost of human stupidity and vice. So only will he attain a realistic and robust philosophy which does justice both to the stature and the awful responsibility of ma