ial, and constraint. Granting that the demands made by his situation on the human being are of a complexity such as no other creature has to meet, the solution of the problem must always aim at preserv- ing the maximum of personal and instinctual freedom; this for two reasons, both fundamental. One, the exercise of such freedom is a good in itself, a positive element in the joy of life. Two, the ex- ercise of such freedom is a prequisite of strength and health, and its denial a danger to body and mind. 7. Sorokin, P. A., Crisis of Our Age, chap. i. Herbert  For: 30 THE LIBERAL TRADITION Bertrand Russell, writing for an American magazine some twenty years ago, said this: "For my part, I should judge a community to be in a good state if I found a great deal of instinctive happiness, a prevalence of feelings of friendship and affection rather than hatred and envy, a capacity for creating and enjoying beauty, and the intellectual curiosity which leads to the advancement and diffusion of knowledge." 8 Those criteria can never successfully be ignored; and failure to meet them cannot be made good by any other sort of achievement. To paraphrase a familiar text, ma- terial abundance cannot compensate for psychic starvation-which is perhaps the typical malady of industrial society. There is no need at this level of discussion to plumb the depths of any alleged "death instinct": causes enough lie right on the surface of the culture-the haunting loneliness of city life, for instance, to which millions of young people are ashamed even to confess, from which so much of their so-called free activity is only a desperate and aim- less flight. An American psychiatrist, Dr. Karen Horney, has drawn attention to the conflict between the motivations inculcated by a competitive society, with its pattern of external economic success, and the spiritual needs of the normal individual.ยบ Another, Dr. Karl Menninger, has vividly depicted some of the darker aspects of the situation, especially i