religion and true justice, can have no other aim than that of acquiring and heaping up wealth, and can follow no other law save the desire of serving personal pleasures and interests?" If you take away jus you get mere material force ( vis materialis) and then might makes right. The will of the people is therefore not truly sovereign, save in so far as it is informed and bound by justice.19 If it seem paradoxical to discover a few truths in the Syllabus of Errors the remedy is to read it again in the light of the full sequel The tactical part of it has long since passed into unhappy history its immediate impact was to make miserable the lives of thousands of good Catholics, to widen the breach between Church and soci- ety, and to delight the opposition-who were "filled with glee " says Debidour: "they would have been really disappointed if the pope had not published his views, and they were at no pains to disguise theirs." 20 But the underlying thesis had substance; and when Pius hurls his final anathema at any who suggest "that the Roman Pontiff can and should reconcile himself and come to terms with progress, liberalism, and modern civilization," we can hardly avoid the reflection that modern civilization, 1944 style, is indeed pretty difficult for Christian men to come to terms with. The issue was sharpening while Pius was preparing his thun- derbolts. On the opposing side, French and Czech freemasonry always anticlerical, was fast becoming antireligious; and the Université, with its pedagogical advance guard in the Ecole Nor- male, was training a class of intellectuals prepared to sympathize with, and to further, the rationalistic materialism of the left. Or- 19. Bury, J. B., History of the Papacy in the Nineteenth Century. See also Cam- bridge Modern History, Vol. XI, chap. xxv. 20. Quoted in Galton, A., Church and State in France, p. 192. INDIVIDUALISM 151 ganized labor, almost from the start, thought of itself in class terms unmitigated by much sense of spiri