ay not mean very much. For whatever constraint may lie upon a man's actions, his conscience cannot be anything but free so far as hu- man agency is concerned (the contrary argument is deterministic and we shall examine it in due course). It means more too than the claim to act in conformity with conscience and not to be com- pelled to act against it; though that claim needs today very vigi- lant defenders. It means, in the final analysis, that state action is confined within a boundary that the state does not itself deter- mine but which it may not transgress; and that on matters of right and wrong the state is denied the last word. The individual may say to the state in practical matters, I think you are wrong but for the sake of peace and expediency I will assent to your policy; but when the state says to the individual, I know I am right and I call upon you to testify to that fact-then comes the parting of the ways; one way may lead to tyranny while the other leads to the concentration camp and the firing squad. ยง 6 THE argument thus comes back to the question of rights, with which this chapter opened: one right in particular. The American Declaration of Independence states as the very first of its "truths" that "all men are created equal." The claim is made for "all," not merely-as the Greeks and Romans would have made it-for citizens; but the only support offered for the proposition is that it is "self-evident." Apart however from those Christian postulates which the founding fathers inherited, it is not evident at all, it is preposterous. To the natural eye men are certainly not created  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 56 equal, neither in heredity, biological endowment, circumstance, opportunity, nor luck; and in fact no human ordinance can alto- gether counteract their inequality. The French declaration which followed (in both senses) the American one thirteen years later repeats the proposition, but adds "as regards their rights"; and in the preamble it claims "the a