y. That situation has now become general; and one of its results will be that states whose economy is mainly genetic, and their nationals, will endeavor to avoid expos- ing their assets to the control of the great powers. Thus a further factor (there are several others ) comes into operation toward the disintegration of world economy and the permanent contraction of the volume of world trade. This in turn discourages private foreign investment, and would discourage the export of public funds also if business considerations had anything to do with it. The idea of peace by force is a dangerous and costly illusion: but it owes its popularity to a very natural disposition. The com- mon idea of peace is that of a system into which you fit on our terms, never a system into which we fit on your terms. Freedom means our liberty to do what we think proper, not what you think proper. In proportion as our autonomy is to be limited by the as- sertion of will or purpose that is not ours, we decline to recognize such a state of affairs as peace or freedom: we fight for "liberty." Unfortunately, we have to admit that while we are right from our point of view, you also may be right from your point of view. We are clearheaded enough to see that; consequently we get no- where. But to organize a system of which the rules are yours-and- ours: to define a set of mores that rests on a consciousness of THE PEACE-BY-FORCE ILLUSION ve-and-you: that is a long and arduous enterprise, demanding an vtual experience of common intention and endeavor. The other 253 way is easier. Force can accomplish considerable results-pro- vided, of course, that it is superior force ( inferior force is no good ). It can encompass punishment, revenge, conquest, control, and the Lind of peace that is called imperialism. It appears likely that the elimination of national conflict will in fact depend (for a certain sime) on the two centers which alone can amass such overwhelm- ing force-America and Russia. That was