n times went down together; and now are coming up together. Liberalism, like Christianity, is a philosophy of means as well as ends; and with a modesty rare in these days, it prefers to talk about the means. It can never grant that the end justifies the means, as other creeds are doing-the ruthlessness and dis- simulation of the political materialists are now notorious. And because of its particular concern with means, the liberal tradition is more clearly shown in action than in theory; that being the sphere in which principle becomes manifest. The historical ap- proach is therefore the one we shall mainly follow, drawing from it certain specific lines of direction to the problems of today. In thus surveying the record, however briefly or imperfectly, the reader will discover that the goal of liberalism has always been something more than the vague "liberty" that every demagogue appeals to: it is liberty-within-community, expanding liberty within expanding community. That, as Professor Toynbee has shown in his great study, is destiny's perennial challenge to civili- zation; and there is no assurance, not even a presumption, of suc- cess. Once already in this generation we have encountered it, and failed. No one can mistake the cost of that failure. Now again, perhaps for the last time, it rises to confront us with the ineluctable alternative, Succeed or perish. What are our resources?  For: I Liberalism and Conservatism 1. Liberalism and its opponents. - 2. The nature of po- litical principle: Burke. - 3. Acton on the same. - 4. Conservatism: Hearnshaw, Cecil. - 5. Liberalism: Muir. -6. Liberalism the architect of community. ยง 1 HE words "liberal" and "liberalism" have, at least for English-speaking peoples, a vaguely favorable connotation, evoking the ideas of freedom, tolerance, and progress. In this sense, and to this extent, their meaning reflects a very common usage. A liberal person is one who is "free with his money." Liberal hospitality implies plenty of fr