o the determination of market prices by the choices of all consumers is the determination of values by the judgment of some small groups of men, no less liable to error and frustration than the majority, notwithstanding the fact that they are called "authority." 1 Mises sees bureaucracy as neither good nor bad in itself; it is a symptom, and an inevitable consequence, of the growing "statism" that is in his view deluding democracy everywhere. The core of his thesis is that the capitalist system of private own tion ownership and the quest for profits, provides the sole foundation not only for eco- nomic but for political freedom. So long as the consumer is king. there is an objective basis for rational economic activity which ex- cludes despotism precisely because it is anonymous and imper- sonal. Substitute the "welfare state" or any collectivist utopia, and all decisions become arbitrary, bringing in their train the inevitable 1. Von Mises, L., Bureaucracy, pp. 26-27. LIBERALISM IN CRISIS bureaucrat who must sedulously follow orders from higher up be- cause there is nothing else to follow. In this line of criticism, the danger to freedom is not mitigated by the possibility that the rulers may have a conception of the 285 common good that is genuinely superior to that of the mass of con- sumers. The state as entrepreneur might decide that liquid capital would be more usefully employed in the production of books or housing than in the production of chewing gum, liquor, cigarettes, or cheap movies; and so order. That is where the strain arises. Many people would be willing to endorse such decisions on their merits and take a chance on the curtailment of economic and po- litical freedom. Unfortunately, the liberal cannot do that. It comes hard: the temptation to command that these stones be made bread is besetting. Only a very profound faith and a very profound love for common people can utter the apage Satanas. One has to re- nect personality very much indeed to rejec