ne of their early chronicle plays: Lust dwells in France, in Italy and Spain From the poor peasant to the Prince's train, In Germany and Holland, Riot serves, And he that most can drink, most he deserves: England I praise not, for I here was born But that she laugheth the others unto scorn.8 The use of the stage as a vehicle of conscious nationalism even antedates that peculiarly English manifestation, the chronicle play; and the playwrights knew what they were doing, and for whom they were doing it. Says Heywood, in the Apology for Actors (1612) : "Plays have made the ignorant more apprehensive, taught the unlearned the knowledge of many famous histories, instructed such as cannot read in the discovery of all our English chronicles; and what man have you now of that weak capacity that cannot discourse of any notable thing recorded even from Wil- liam the Conqueror, nay from the landing of Canute, until this day?" In exactly the same mood, Ford commends to the audience his tragedy of Perkin Warbeck (1634)-a piece of more, or rather less, than questionable accuracy-as A history of noble mention, known Famous, and true; most noble, 'cause our own; Not forged from Italy, from France, from Spain, "Most noble, 'cause our own": there you have it, the sole suf- ficient imprimatur! There was no David Starr Jordan in those But chronicled at home .- 7. Münsterberg, H., American Patriotism, pp. 3, 4, 16. 8. Cromwell, III, 3.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 176 days to question the veracity of these "famous histories" in which the "unlearned and ignorant" were thus instructed; and we may doubt whether, even had there been, he would have had muchof a welcome from either players or audience. "As was right and necessary," remarks J. A. Symonds, "the authors of our chronicle plays made history subservient to art." Nash advertised the fact. said he in Pierce Penniless (1592): "Tell them what a glorious thing it is to have Henry V represented on the stage, leading the French king prisoner, an