( then allied) of nationalism and representative government. "Peace, retrench ment, and reform" demanded that the interest of the home parish be balanced against even the most deserving of foreign missions- and the occasions on which Gladstone departed from his princi- ples turned out less fortunate than those on which he adhered to them. In the sort of world the great powers were creating, the consequences of even the best-intentioned intervention might be difficult to foresee or to control; and while no doubt Russian in terest in the Christians of Constantinople, British sympathy for Armenians and Bulgarians, French protection for Lebanese Catho- lics, were all disinterested at the outset, the pattern into which they fitted has an old familiar look. Nothing more clearly demon- strates the need for caution than the way in which history trans- forms the schemes, both good and bad, of those who pin their faith on force; and it must always be remembered that resort to coercion creates a new situation that cannot be revoked when the occasion or the mood is past. Liberal policy relied on opinion, moral as well as intellectual both to restrain the impulse toward force and to mitigate the tyranny of the oppressor; and it rather took for granted the exist- ence of a will to peace. In fact, that was hard to discover. We have already noted (p. 172) Cobden's observation on the state of popu- lar opinion toward Palmerston. That observation ion needs to be sup- plemented by another, made when he was striving to quench the chauvinist panic worked up on both sides of the Channel in the 1850's: We cannot disguise from ourselves that the military spirit pervades the higher and more influential classes of this country; and that the Court. aristocracy and all that is aping the tone of the latter believe that their interests, privileges, and even their very security are bound up in the maintenance of the "Horse Guards." Hence the very unfashionable character of our movement, and hence