ch he himself had started life, which now seemed to have betrayed both him and his sacred charge. But the battle into which Pius now flung himself with such fury had been going on a long time; and for his side he might have claimed even the august authority of the Encyclopaedia Britan- nica. The Britannica had started serial publication in 1768, as not only a rival, but an antidote, to Diderot's. In the preface to the INDIVIDUALISM 149 bound edition of 1801, dedicated to King George, the editors ob- serve that the French production was "justly accused of having disseminated far and wide the seeds of anarchy and atheism. If the Encyclopaedia Britannica shall in any degree counteract the tendency of that pestiferous work . .. (it) will not be wholly unworthy of your Majesty's attention." 18 Looking back on the papal Caesarism of Pius IX, it must be ad- mitted that no pope since the sixteenth century had been faced with such critical problems or subjected to such complex in- fluences. A papacy that had political territories to defend-and by a polyglot army-could not possibly come to terms with a liber- alism that was for the time being necessarily identified with polit- ical nationalism. Nowadays it is easy for us to see that the true life of the Church was no more involved in the matter of the temporal power than liberalism was synonymous with the principle of na- tionality. But people-even popes-fight with what apparatus and what vision they have; and few prelates could discern, as the waves of secular ambition, secular passion, and secular idealism tossed the bark of Peter, the wider waters to which that vessel was being driven in despite of its helmsman. Least of all could Italian and Spanish ultramontanes see with Newman that the Church was undergoing a rebirth, in which its material connection with a doomed world of thrones and dominations was to be severed, that it might live and grow beyond all expectation on a plane more suited to the needs of an era not yet i