b- solute-norms and values. They have to choose. . . . Sensate Western culture and society are given a categoric ultimatum: either persist on the road of overripe sensate culture and go to ruin, to a life uncreative, devoid of any genius, painful and inglorious; or shift, while there is still a possibility of doing so, to another road of ideational or idealistic culture. 15 Among many other protests that might be cited is that of the distinguished Gestalt psychologist, Kurt Koffka; it is the more significant in that Koffka had an almost obsessional horror of wish- ful thinking and a priori generalization. The concluding passage of his major work contains the following declaration (with which the present writer would humbly associate himself) : If there is any polemical spirit in this book, it is directed not against per- sons but against a strong cultural force in our present civilization for 13. Young, K., Sociology, chap. xix. 14. Hankins, loc. cit. 15. Sorokin, P. A., The Crisis of Our Age, pp. 270-271.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 220 which I have chosen the name positivism. If positivism can be regarded as an integrative philosophy, its integration rests on the dogma that all events are equally unintelligible, irrational, meaningless, purely factual Such an integration is, however, to my way of thinking, identical with a complete disintegration. Being convinced that such a view is utterl. inadequate in face of the facts, I had to attack it, and that the mo since its hold over our generation is strong. It makes a difference ore one's life whether one is a positivist or not.16 Every systematized body of thought, including the skeptical and agnostic schools, has an inherent tendency to become dog- matic; and science and dogma are incompatible. The only sphere in which dogma is both permissible and useful is that in which dogma is expressly recognized as defining faith, not knowledge. and it is to faith alone that the language of absolutism is osophically appropriate. Th