ral work, we shall endeavor to indicate what they are. The first concerns the fate of the "small man." Liberalism, in con- trast to collectivism but in common with the Catholic Church, has a special interest in maintaining the possibility of independent 4. Dodds, E., Let's Try Liberalism, p. 98. LIBERALISM IN CRISIS proprietorship, enterprise, and risk bearing. The notion that the small business is doomed by the advance of modern technology 289 and mass distribution is fallacious. Obviously there can be no small businessmen in basic steel or chemicals; but even in such fields, a great deal of "big business" is much bigger than it need be for optimum efficiency. That fact is very conspicuous in regard to con- sumers' goods and retail distribution. The American consumer is still inclined to identify "bigger" with "better," and big-scale ad- vertising gets its living by perpetuating that delusion; but if qual- ity and service are intelligently considered, the small store and the small factory can more than hold their own in many fields. In- teresting corroboration comes from the British Institute of Statis- tics. In a letter to the London Times (March 31, 1941) Professor Bowley and Dr. de Neumann report that "in the period 1918-35 no natural trend against the small firm is observable." Worker out- put is hardly any higher, on the average, in the big firm. "In wiping but the small firm we should not imagine that we are either ac- celerating the inevitable trend or that we are always eliminating the most inefficient units." While the preservation of the widest possible field for inde- pendent enterprise does not justify discrimination against size as such, it does demand careful scrutiny of marketing and credit con- ditions to see that the small firm gets at least a fair opportunity. Local governments and utility commissions can do much that is useful, and taxation policies should be directed toward the same objective. The program is economically as well as socially soun