o not tolerate." 19 His point was that the state had no such authority one way or the other; and the American Constitution expressly implements that contention. Its framers realized that the secular state is a creature different from 18. Speech at Manchester, December 30, 1918, in Baker, R. S., Woodrow Wilson and World Settlement, I, 300. 19. Quoted in Bury, J. B., History of Freedom of Thought, p. 111. 97 and inferior to, the soul of a man; and whenever it says to a man, You are impeding the exercise of my authority, the man may stand up and reply, Well, what are you trying to do? Its function is essentially, in Kant's phrase, "to keep conscious free-willing beings from interference with each other." The life of society is in them, not in it-all the variety of occupation and experience, of local and corporate community, of religious belief and practice, which Bodin with his historical sense valued so highly. As he rightly saw, social life can be pluralistic only where political authority is monistic; but the state is only a means to liberty, and whenever it claims to be autonomous in the definition of ends, then let liberals beware. It is almost a platitude that eternal vigilance is the price of lib- erty; and the essence of vigilance is to discern from what quarter danger threatens. What those early liberals laid down as to the necessary limitation of political power holds true of any kind of a state, whatever its constitution. A democracy is just as apt to become tyrannical as any divine-right monarch. There is no more divinity attaching to numerical majorities than there was to hu- man heads with crowns on them: perhaps less, in as much as the personal rates higher than the mechanical. If we all assent to majority rule, it is solely for the same good reason of expediency, and within the same limits. The mere fact that a state may rest its decisions on a majority vote, actual or retrospective, gives it no more right to invade the personal and spiritual liberty of