t plane of action, coercion could override personality as the quantitative always seeks to override the qualitative. The de- terioration of international polity can be dated with some ac- 4. Hobson, J. A., Richard Cobden, p. 21.  310 ECHO OF AN OLD SONG THE LIBERAL TRADITION curacy from the time at which Cecil Rhodes and his associates became a dominant force in British politics. But on the qualitative plane the older liberalism was true. In contrast to laissez faire, it was a universal expression of man's ideal of man. The notion that peace and freedom somehow belong together is so deep rooted that nothing can kill it. Despite the most obvious clashes of interest, ordinary people stubbornly believe with Cobden that freedom of action will lead to social and inter- national harmony. Where do they find ground for this assurance? They find it in themselves. In their personal experience the quali- tative can and does master the quantitative. In free personal rela- tionships men achieve community by keeping material interests in their place; they know the creative function of a proper sense of proportion; they support churches in order to help themselves preserve it; they support an old-fashioned scheme of liberal edu- cation because they think that will instill it in their children; and each successive instrument of power politics has to be disguised as a fraternal association before they will look at it. Coercion as a short cut to community is tempting. We are in a hell of a mess, or we fear we are going to be: the situation ought to be cleared up once and for all. Let us make a rational analysis, decide how things ought to be run, and see that they are run that way in future. That will involve some restriction of old liberties, but in return there will be more comfort, more security, and as much liberty as is consistent with the maintenance of the system: surely no one would ask for more? Walk up, ladies and gentle- men, here are peace and security going at bargain pr