uestion whether to capture control of the state by political meth- ods or by economic coercion was a tactical issue; but the two sides, in all countries, engendered very different tempers. In France the twentieth century witnessed a steady swing of organized labor toward direct action-at least in theory and statement; though many workers who supported it in their trade-union capacity were also, being Frenchmen, keen politicians. The swing gained mo- mentum from the ostentatiously capitalist interests of a long series of bourgeois governments, and it lacked the brake that the bour- geoisie used to supply. For the bourgeoisie also was changing, or losing, its role. The contest of the Masons and the Jesuits had not left the small towns undisturbed. The centralization of pedagogical training had brought the sharp edge of revolutionary doctrine into the smallest hamlets; and in very many the apostles of ultra- montanism were ready to meet the challenge. The state itself was thus involved in the ideological issue because it stood on ideo- logical ground. Further, the influence of Paris was being extended in the monetary sphere. Imperialist ventures and the finance of power politics were reaching out through decentralized banking for the savings of the little people, just as political journalism was reaching out for their votes; and the petty bourgeoisie thus lost its stabilizing influence and tended itself to be divided, as the issues sharpened, between the extremes of left and right. As its eco- nomic independence steadily dwindled between wars, the tend- ency was enhanced, and the countryside became unwholesomely urban in its thinking, its financial interests, and its partisanship. Even before 1914 the direct-action groups, small as they were, were displaying that hardening of the temper that has since be- come so conspicuous; and the state was consolidating its defenses with an equally drastic determination. From the ruthless pro- scription of the Communards to the sma