vors of the irresponsible. $ 8 FINALLY, among popular modern conceptions, we must consider that of the state as the source of economic benefits: the so-called "welfare state, offering cradle-to-grave security. The phrase is an apt one; for to be born is risky, and there is no security comparable to that of the grave. This emphasis on security, in domestic as well as international affairs, is the mask of terror. Everywhere, as they recall the recent past or contemplate the future, men are afraid: afraid of them- selves, of their own powers and passions; afraid of the future, afraid of the unknown. This root of fear, we have repeatedly sug- gested, lies at a deeper level than social and economic reforms can reach; it is the nemesis of materialism,8 and can be exorcised only by a spiritual revolution. Of this we shall not further speak, though all other comment presupposes the thesis. In the welfare state it is generally assumed that production and 7. Beardsley Ruml, as reported in The New York Times, February 21, 1945. 8. The writer called attention to it many years ago in certain studies of modern literature; see especially "The Genealogy of the Superman," Texas Review, July 1924, and "Leonid Andreyev," American Review, March-April, 1925.  296 THE LIBERAL TRADITION distribution will remain for the most part voluntary; but that the state will not only ensure that everybody is employed, but will use its compulsory power to secure that everybody is covered by certain insurances and benefits. The scheme adopted by the British Government on the basis of Sir William Beveridge's 1942 report applies to all persons regardless of rank or income, and provides maternity benefits, family allowances after the first child, sick- ness, unemployment, and invalidity benefits, retirement (old age) pensions, death grants, pensions and benefits for widows and or- phans. From 54 to 64 per cent of the whole cost of the service is to come from taxation; of the insurance features alone, from