ated. His society consists solely of self-interested in- dividuals-which is precisely why it issues in a tyranny. The logic of that process was to be demonstrated on a colossal scale a hun- dred and fifty years later. If Hobbes overworked his "mortal god" of a sovereign, it was because his state of nature was the very devil; and the difficulty of his more optimistic opponents was to get the play going without the introduction of the traditional villain. Nature, therefore, gets a little coaching before she is allowed to appear; and perhaps it is Richard Cumberland (1632-1718), with his "social instinct," who formulates the happy solution (and incidentally fathers a popular brand of American sociology). Cumberland was an Anglican bishop, a good man and an acute, though not a catholic, thinker; he was concerned to defend religion against the materialism of Hobbes, and his work illustrates very neatly the risks involved in 4. Leviathan, Part 1, chaps. xiii, xiv, xv.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 106 individual apologetic uncorrected by an active catholic tradition "Our own happiness cannot be separated from a studious con- cern for the happiness of all . . . The soul is naturally adapted to enter into society and unless it does submit to enter into a social state, it neglects its principal use and employment, and lets go the best advantage of its own natural disposition." It is a some- what abstract proposition, but very comforting to a class that prized comfort. It made available on very generous terms what theologians called "grace." It eased up the old insistence on the necessity for moral effort. It paved the way for the latitudinarian tendency of the eighteenth century. It opened the door to Locke the nonconformists, the deists, the unitarians, and the atheists. It nearly put the Church out of business. And so far as it went, it was both true and important. Certain effects of the optimistic view of human nature are di- rectly traceable to the circumstances of the elite. "