the open-ended experience of actual living-the infinite hoping and striving, the love, the sacrifice, the conviction of mean- ing and value, as known to common people and great poets: not in the laboratory, but in the home. Contemporary culture suffers from a curious, and probably unique, illiteracy. Its vocabulary and stock of concepts are so ex- clusively quantitative that a large part of experience is never fully apprehended, because of the difficulty of formulation. Why this is so we shall enquire in Chapter XI; the fact puts an extraneous obstacle in the way of our understanding any different type of culture. The early Christians were certainly not bothered as we should have been by difficulties of formulation; though we flat- ter ourselves if we suppose that they could not think as clearly as we can. They had much less difficulty than we should now have in seizing a new apprehension of reality; and the problem of formu- lation became acute under external rather than internal neces- sity. For many decades the Christian community got along with only the barest act of affirmation: the baptismal formula, to show who belonged and who did not belong. But as belonging or not belonging became the outstanding issue in a dissolving civiliza- tion, the Church found it necessary to sharpen up the formula. Nearly four centuries elapsed, for example, before the Trinitarian doctrine was officially defined; but, as Professor Bevan so justly says: 53 If Christians were going to come to the world with any affirmations about God, it was just intellectual sincerity for them to make up their minds what the words which they used meant. To-day, while the duty of being kindly and good-natured all round is very generally recog- ized, people often hardly regard it as a duty at all to think what their Ærmations mean or what relation they bear to the facts of the Universe. If the essential thing about the Christian message was a new announce- ment of what God was, of what God had done an