so facto a grant of monopoly powers. The American patent law grants much looser and wider powers than that of other countries; consequently an American, or pseudo-American, concern licensed by a foreign owner of a device covered by an American patent is in a stronger monopoly position than a British or a German concern licensed by the American owners of a device patented under British or  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 266 German law. An obvious remedy is to tighten American patent law with a view of restricting its monopoly potential. It is remark. able that Mr. Wendell Berge, Assistant Attorney General of the United States, in his recent book on cartels,10 avoids discussion of this question, on which members of Congress and others have ex pended so much study in recent years. Revision of the patent law is admittedly necessary, and the only excuse for its further post- ponement would be the assurance that the matter would be re- ferred to an international commission seeking more uniformity and equality of treatment among the nations so intimately related in this question. The attitude of the United States on copyright law gives little encouragement to any such hope. Meanwhile, all that Mr. Berge has to propose is that the American Government itself should conduct technical research on a scale which "could become one of the principal means of stimulating and encouraging new industry and at the same time overcoming ing the effects of the business cycle." Apparently neither the research facilities of Amer- ican industry, nor the very fruitful work of American universities and institutes of technology, deserve mention in this connection- nor is the matter of cost allowed a hearing. The prospect of making the American Government itself a party to infringement suits under existing law offers interesting possibilities. That enterprising guild of journalists popularly known as the Department of Justice has on various occasions essayed to evalu- ate, on a priori grounds, just how mu