rsher words than those of Sir Richard Acland: "For over a hundred and fifty years you have neglected your duty . . . because of sheer funk. The whole struc- ture of society is, from the Christian point of view, rotten and must permanently frustrate your efforts to create for the individual the possibility of a Christian life. This has given Hitler the op- portunity for saying 'To hell with the whole order.' . . . He said this, and from despairing humanity he wrung forth a tremendous 3. Wingfield-Stratford, E., History of British Civilization, p. 497.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 82 and dynamic response. . . . You must be prepared to offend peo- ple who are determined to preserve the existing order." But how far can a state Church afford to go in that direction? Laud's impeachment was the work of Parliament; and thereafter it was Parliament that had the final voice in determining the re- ligious life of England. Churchmen had a sharp reminder of this when in 1927-28 the House of Commons vetoed the adoption of a revised service book agreed upon, after most searching de- bate, by both Convocation and the Church Assembly. The issue was sharpened by the fact that it was the votes of men some of whom professed no religion at all while others were actively hos- tile to all religion that decided the matter. Thereafter churchmen high and low-or to avoid ambiguity should one say lofty and humble-were compelled to ask themselves whether state patron. age was not in fact, as many critics had maintained for genera tions, a comfortable prison? And what the conservative argument amounted to was that, even so, any establishment was better than none-a point on which practically all Americans would differ. which proves nothing, but suggests a good deal. Just what was supposed to be the true relation between tem poral and spiritual authority was not clear until after the doctrine of divine right had done its work. Indeed, it is not clear now; but that doctrine had a work to do. It was, as e