Ages, sec. III, p. 20.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 62 culture as territorial merely because their homes or workshops- when they had any-happened to be in this place or that; nor do we think of their great teachers and writers as belonging primarily to one country or another. The monasteries and universities were stubbornly defiant of local potentates, small or great; nor must we forget the friars of the mendicant orders, who did in some measure for the life of the spirit what the traveling merchant was doing for the life of trade. Christendom was not a place but a community. It could endure the incessant warring of the temporal powers precisely because its basis was not territorial. It had its dis- sident movements, its sects and unorthodoxies, even its heresies: but so long as these-even the last-had reference to a common set of moral postulates, broadly based on a common faith, the life of the community went on. And there was more in common be- tween Pelagius and Augustine, or Anselm and Roscellinus, or Thomas and John the Scot, even between Luther and Eck, than there is between any two leading schools of modern thought . Contemporary culture is riven from top to bottom by the lack of agreement as to common postulates or common values, so that its exponents seldom speak the same language even when they use the same words; and because of that, it has become not only departmentalized but localized. Thus even the idea of funda- mental unity is lost-while politicians glibly proclaim that the world is one-and American universities, following a German style, sponsor schools of "American culture" with all the emphasis on the adjective. It is the intellectual's version of the flag parade with its uniformed coquettes cavorting round the big drum. For while it is rightly held that every culture has its roots in the soil. that is true only of the roots; and the soil does not provide the seed. The difference between regionalism and fragmentation con- sists in the sense of a larger