arations of maritime law put every sort of com- merce in jeopardy, and made waste paper of all precedents. The close of the first war was marked by a determined and successful efort to impair the economic recovery of the principal losers, and to retain certain civilian properties. The second war has seen the extension of that policy to a point at which international law in war has ceased to exist. For years the Government of Germany, so 5. The proposals of the Australian and New Zealand Governments did imply this recognition; and for that reason got nowhere.  252 THE LIBERAL TRADITION far as its arm could reach, had based a policy of confiscation on a racial theory that had no standing in civil law, international law nor Christian ethics; and when the war began, that violation of the comity of nations proved contagious. Anglo-American leader- ship, in both speech and action, launched a crusade that admitted of neither legal nor territorial limits to the exercise of coercion The concept of neutrality was denounced in both theory and prac- tice. Not only enemy assets and interests, but the assets and in- terests of any parties whatsoever, even in neutral countries, were exposed to every constraint the belligerent powers could make effective; and the assets and interests of neutral states and their civilians, lodged in belligerent territory or under belligerent con- trol, were subjected to practically the same sort of coercion as those of enemy nationals. Thus "total war" became a sort of war that no civilian community could hope to escape; and "peace- loving nations" will draw the obvious inference. Balkan and Latin American concerns trading with Germany since 1934 discovered that their assets and accounts in Germany were subject to the dic- tates of German national policy. That situation has now become general; and one of its results will be that states whose economy is mainly genetic, and their nationals, will endeavor to avoid expos- ing their assets to the control