re security, and as much liberty as is consistent with the maintenance of the system: surely no one would ask for more? Walk up, ladies and gentle- men, here are peace and security going at bargain prices. The average person, especially the average American, is skepti- cal about that bargain; not merely because he dislikes being or- dered about, not merely because he is doubtful about the in- fallibility of the designers, but because he suspects that even at its best that sort of system will not produce the kind of community he vaguely works for and aspires to. And he has a profound distrust of that use of coercion. Coercion as the instrument of justice rest- ing on universal moral foundations is hardly felt as coercion at all. State action to carry out on a broader scale the impulses of mu- tual care, benevolence, and cultural aspiration that count for so much in personal living-by all means. But coercion to impose a particular pattern of the good life on social and economic activity -that is a different and deeply "un-American" sort of coercion, 311 of which the normal citizen feels that even if it were good, he wouldn't like it. A precisely similar bargain is offered in the international sphere. British liberalism came to grief in pursuit of what was called liberal imperialism. Liberalism is a fine thing, and imperialism in its way is a fine thing; for a decade or so liberal leadership tried to get the best of both. But when the bill came up for payment it sent the whole world bankrupt, and the score is not yet settled. Now many good Americans are playing with the same idea. They do not call it imperialism. They think, no doubt, of the ever- expanding network of bases as so many administrative offices (with the necessary equipment ) to preserve the harmony of the grand design. Some restriction of local liberties will of course be in- volved, but in return there will be more comfort, more security, and as much liberty as is consistent with the maintenance of the s