ppeal to; and it had no further answer because it had begun, quite legitimately, by excluding from its field that whole set of values human beings intend when they talk about justice and equity. Nineteenth-century liberalism came near impaling itself on this dilemma. The ideal of liberty that had come down from Locke, Milton, the Whig philosophers, and Adam Smith was corralled within the iron fence of the doctrinaires and their radical sup- porters. Disraeli saw it, and rescued a good deal of liberalism for the Tory Party. Political liberalism survived in Britain while con- tinental liberalism died, only because of its empirical character, which readmitted by the back door those dynamic factors that had been expelled by the front. Laissez faire, as its name implies, was truly a French rather than an English doctrine, and its influence on British policy has been fan- tastically exaggerated. Even as doctrine, it never reached the sys- tematic perfection of the Frenchman Bastiat or the American Clark; and as policy it was consistently honored in the breach. As we shall see, the "triumph of free trade" involved considera- tions much more profound than the equations of the classical econ- omists. The work of the neoclassicists Marshall and Pigou harks back to the empirical humanism of Adam Smith; and modern economists have been the first to insist that their studies supply no final criteria for social action. But English laissez faire was re- inforced by the hard materialism of the north, into which the dregs of puritanism had now crystallized; by an atheist philosophy which was the speculative counterpart of that; and by certain winds of doctrine that blew over from revolutionary France. These we shall now consider.  VIII France and Individualism 1. The problem of unity. - 2. The passion for clarity. - 3. The secular origins of individualism. - 4. Its revolu- tionary statement. - 5. Contrasting effects. ยง 1 F OR some hundred and fifty years a major part of the educa- ti