ensorship, with powers of ostracism and imprisonment for unorthodoxy, and finally with the death penalty for heresy. There is, one fears, something in- herently attractive about this sort of thing to doctrinaire and aca- demic minds; but both the liberal tradition and the Catholic 1 Church have always been chary of too much Plato, preferring the more empirical, and therefore truly humane, approach of Aristotle. For the religious the antidote to Plato is St. Francis; for the atheist the antidote is Robespierre. There is no more dangerous fanatic known to history than the rationalist on a crusade. Aristotle's primary observation about happiness is that it is not a passive but a very active condition. This is really characteristic  For: 28 THE CLASSICAL FOUNDATIONS THE LIBERAL TRADITION of Greek thought until the final subjugation of the city-states; it was only when things seemed to be going so badly that no amount nor kind of activity could lead to happiness, that the notion of passivity gained much of a following-a phenomenon we can see paralleled today. Aristotle has far more to say about action than about feeling. Happiness, he insists, is a "working of the soul in the way of excellence"-and excellence is primarily a quality of action. Happiness springs from a full and complete life; and by complete he means not only a many-sided but a long life: "living well and doing well." He is therefore chary of all coercions, sup- pressions, and denials. When, for instance, he wants to show up the fallacy in mere economic success, the word he chooses is con- straint: "As for the life of money-making, it is one of constraint, and wealth manifestly is not the good we are seeking, because it is for use, that is, for the sake of something further." 6 The prospect of an increase of wealth accompanied by an increase of "constraint" could never fool the true Aristotelian! The warning that thus comes to us from over two thousand years ago needs today all the emphasis of which speech