ffect throughout the world, the Divine Right of Kings: the new Protestant doctrine, fruitful of many things. The doctrine fully born that day (it had been maturing ever since the beginning of the great revolt against Christian unity-ever since the leaders of change had pitted, each in his own State, the Prince against the universal Church ) has never died. Though the word "King" be no longer used, though the word "Divine" has fallen out of fashion, the strength of the thing is as vigorous as ever. The lay state is sovereign; it has full power over the bodies and souls of Chris- tian men; it admits no superior authority to represent the universality of Christendom or the Christian moral law; it stands equal and inde- pendent with other states, its like, round about it. The Christian Com- monwealth of which each Christian state had been but a province and 13. Niebuhr, op. cit., II, 241.  76 V The Secular State THE LIBERAL TRADITION a part is wholly denied: for the Divine right had passed from the re- ligion by which Europe once lived to governments which are but the heirs of the Kings. That Divine Right still rules. And against it the citi- zen has today no power at all.14 14. Belloc, H., Cranmer, pp. 239-240. But it is against this power they are now string gling 1. The hardening of the arteries. - 2. The Church of England. - 3. The Calvinist revolution. - 4. The tri- umph of money. - 5. The triumph of tolerance. ยง 1 T HE process which culminated in the World Wars of the twentieth century may in one sense be regarded as an emancipation. Its basic characteristic was the revolt of ever- increasing numbers of men, in an ever-widening field, against the principle of external authority. Following the crisis in religion of the sixteenth century, the movement spread to politics in the seventeenth and economics in the eighteenth. It was not at first an affair of individuals but of groups, corporations, and estates -including those "great estates" that came to be called natio