freely exercise their powers, so far as this can be done without injury to others; and it therefore involves a readiness to use the power of the State for the purposes of creating the conditions within which individual energy can thrive, of preventing all abuses of power, of affording to every citizen the means of acquiring mas- tery of his own capacities, and of establishing a real equality of opportunity for all." 11 While there are other significant definitions of liberalism, the foregoing statement by one who was very closely associated with the modern British movement serves to focus certain fundamental problems. Its optimism, in contrast to the tone of the conservative pronouncements, is obvious. As an element in that optimism, the notion of "progress" is taken for granted; and it is deliberately associated with the free activity of individuals, But the notion of progress has been under critical attack for more than a genera- tion, and no student of recent social philosophy will consent to let it pass unchallenged. Again, the role of the individual in historical causation is a perennial problem; the currency of various deter- ministic theories, both popular and academic, sharpens that issue -especially in America, where "individualism" is still an effective slogan. The tacit assumption that the "emancipation".of "all in- dividuals and groups" will tend, on the whole, toward a working social harmony, or will at least permit a tolerable modus vivendi, was surely never more hazardous than now: what if the "groups" represent economic vested interests? What if they are nations, or aspire to be called so? ยง 6 A PHILOSOPHY that upholds liberty as the highest political end, and collective intelligence as the specific means thereto, needs 11. Muir, R., "Liberal Party," Encyclopaedia Britannica, XIII ( 1940), 1,000.  - 16 r: LIBERALISM AND CONSERVATISM THE LIBERAL TRADITION nowadays to be very sure of its ground. The easy optimism on which it rested forty years ago has