n; and a good deal of the affliction springs from the notion that when things do not run smoothly, the remedy is to pass more laws, make more rules, issue more orders. The prescription does not seem to have worked. The diagnosis must go deeper.  For: III The Christian Synthesis 1. The idea of universal obligation. - 2. The "nature" of natural law. - 3. The Christian revolution. - 4. The "nature" of Christianity. - 5. The nature of man. - 6. The Christian foundations of democracy. ยง 1 0 NE thing is certain about that state of perfect bliss of which men are prone to dream: it would be changeless. There would be no incentive to change; and the characteristic human skills and adaptive capacities would die out under disuse and disapproval. Adam in his bachelor days would have struck his descendants as an extremely uninteresting though highly trac- table person, distinguished from all subsequent gardeners by a marked propensity to leave things as he found them. How the ser- pent entered the scene does not appear on the record; though the Lord set an example to all Christian gentlemen by accepting Mrs. Adam's account of what happened. That he had his reservations we may perhaps surmise from the fact that the serpent was allowed to continue his peregrinations; so he too probably has his place in the scheme of things-a view that Catholic theology inclines to support. For without change humanity would not be human. Change is our destiny; and change means challenge-that is the theme of Professor Toynbee's great Study of History. Until quite recent times explorers could still find here and there isolated communi- ties that had reached a sort of static equilibrium, both internally and externally; but such cases were very rare, and as a result of the current war there is probably not one left anywhere now. De- velopment or retrogression is the rule. In the successful cases the area of human cooperation grows in- tensively and extensively, and as it does so men become more fully a