ssociation, or function, or society; 137 while the true France-the home for which the Frenchman has no word-lies on another plane than this. And perhaps it has been the fate of modern France, too skeptical of other planes, to seek in political forms a fulfilment they cannot contain: the security, and the glory, of a house not made with hands. But it is permissible also to hold that the French genius was never more clearly, nor more tragically, displayed than in the fact that when the perennial quarrel of the nation-states approached its bloody climax, there were so many Frenchmen, of both the right and the left, who had outgrown that archaic type of association. As we said, the integration of France, so far as it was ever achieved, came much later than that of England; and it is note- worthy that the difficulties all along came at least as much from within as from without. The steady development of English com- munity went on for centuries irrespective, on the whole, of what brand of religion the king professed, what his birthright might be, what foreign policy he pursued, what executive machinery he em- ployed. These issues indeed had arisen, but seldom so high as to interrupt for long the process of integration; Britain's greatest war visibly strengthened the ties. Not so in France; one pays a high price for living (or dying) on the continent of Europe. There frontiers were more fluent than the waters of Britain, and local loyalties, like rocks, wrecked many a ship of state. The craving for unity, so often and so passionately manifest, was seldom permitted to make straight for its goal; other issues always supervened. Thus in the wars of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, dynastic and national ambition involved the crown in the battle of the faiths. Catholic France fought on the Protestant side: that is, all the king's horses and all the king's men-but by no means all of what was aspiring to be France. Pleas for internal unity were lost in the clamor for ext