r a fire brigade. Aggression is thought of as an overt rt, or series of acts ( the constant use of the term "aggressor" Las fixed that notion ) and the general idea is that the League or council would wait until somebody set the house aflame and then common the apparatus. Improvements in procedure proposed since 1924 suggest only that in certain circumstances the fire brigade might dash to the scene as soon as it saw the smoke, without wait- ing to be summoned. But the idea that an international authority could ever act effectively on the principle of waiting for overt events on which to pass judgment is now hopelessly out of touch with reality. Overt acts on which judgment could be passed in ac- cord with some quasi-judicial formula do not, in fact or in theory, constitute an adequate basis for international action: the powers do not act, and will not act, on so limited a view of the case. The United States has frequently taken action in Latin American with- out waiting for the sort of critical event League theorists have in mind; and on the other hand, Britain did not go to war with Ger- many merely because German armies crossed a frontier, nor did America fight Japan because Pearl Harbor was attacked. In all such cases, on both sides, the resort to force exists on a much broader basis of policy. Nor can it be held that merely to punish, or as it were, cancel the overt act solves the problem. For the fact of forceful inter- vention creates a new situation, it does not restore the preexisting 10. The Nation (New York), August 26, 1944.  232 THE LIBERAL TRADITION one; this was conspicuously shown following the application of sanctions to Italy in 1935. To be effective, intervention has to be- come control, and that involves comprehensive action. In other words, the juridical quality of specific acts furnishes a safe criterion for intervention only to the extent that considerations of general policy, past and prospective, warrant the belief that such action will be t