line of approach is indicated. The Greek emphasis on the stability and impersonality of law as the necessary condition of freedom raised yet another question of urgency for our time. If the law-no matter how derived or defined-were merely the law of the tribe of the territory, what was to happen when tribes were mingled or territories disputed? Was there not, might there not be, a law absolute, universal, superior to all local claim or custom, binding by its very nature on all men? Again, since all enunciated law was to some degree imperfect and mutable, might there not lie, at least in certain cases, an ap- peal to something logically prior and morally more final? So at least thought Plato and Sophocles; Aristotle too in his very differ- ent way had hoped to find it. The question had an irresistible ap- peal to the Greek mind; and it has never been abandoned alto- gether. From time to time, as now, circumstances have forced thoughtful men to take it up again. The proponents and designers of current schemes for world peace, world government, world or- der are much concerned with it; but they have for the most part one lesson to learn from the Greek philosophers, which is simply that the second aspect of the problem as stated above is logically prior to the first. Current schemes are much engrossed in institu- tional matters, questions of form, mechanism, and procedure; but unless and until the philosophy of universal obligation is more clearly and compellingly stated, all such machinery will lack an adequate motive power. To this question also we shall return, since it is to liberalism, with its interest in the dynamics of community, that the challenge is most immediate. ยง 5 AT THIS point we come upon the second of the Greek founda- tion stones in the philosophy of freedom: the notion of consent, "What the Greek found wanting," says one of the foremost mod- ern authorities, J. L. Myres, "when he came to know these so- 14. Cook, T. I., History of Political Philosoph