of transaction is of immemorial antiquity; and if the miller turned out to be a usurer it meant not that there was something wrong with "the system" but that there was something wrong with the miller. ยง 2 AS BACKGROUND to the proletarian problem, the identification of national welfare with the prosperity of the profit seekers is far more important than the confusion of the two types of income; and it has a much longer history. It may be laid down as a maxim of particular importance to liberalism that the proper concern of the state is justice; and that whenever the instrument of jus- tice is identified with a particular economic interest-even that of the nation itself-trouble will certainly ensue. Now it is loudly asserted by contemporary Marxists that the state is always so identified. "The essential purpose of the state." says Professor Laski, "is always to protect a given system of class relations . . . So long as the state expresses a society divided into economic classes, it is always the servant of that class which owns or dominates the ownership of, the instruments of production . . . So far, on the evidence of history, any class which has sought to redefine its position in the state has always had to achieve its ends by violent revolution. In our time the facts give no warrant for concluding that our experience will be a different one from that of past ages." 1 Evidently the immediate task is to transfer. presumably by violence, the control of the state from one class to that to which the writer fancies himself as belonging; and no less evidently it appears that, short of the classless millennium, there can be no such thing as what the ordinary person under- 1. Laski, H. J., The State, pp. 293-294. CAPITAL AND LABOR 123 stands by justice-no more after the transition than before. To this discovery Marxists can no doubt reconcile their consciences, since conscience is also, for them, a class phenomenon; but to the historian there would appear to be some diffic