n." "We see small and medium property owners compelled to wage a defensive struggle . . . against those effec- tive concentrations of economic wealth, often hidden under anony mous forms, that succeed in evading their social duties." Workers have a right to the expectation of acquiring some personal prop- erty; and when the present distribution of property is an obstacle to this end, "the state should in the common interest intervene regulate its activities, or issue a decree of expropriation with suit able indemnity." Small and medium holdings in agriculture, trade. industry, and the arts are entitled to special protection. And the pope expressly rejects the argument that technical development automatically makes for bigness and tends to kill off small pro- prietorship No, technical progress will not necessarily and inevitably determine economic life. Too often it has yielded timidly to egoistic calculations greedy to increase capital indefinitely. Why therefore should it not bow before the necessity of maintaining and insuring private property for all as a cornerstone of the social order? Even technical progress must not prevail over the general good, but must be governed by it, and be sub- ordinate to it.12 After that, no one will accuse the Vatican of a lack of boldness! But to understand the position, in all its implications, it is essen- tial to remember that it is a logical continuation of what the later Middle Ages inculcated as the natural law, realized as the human part of the larger order. 12. Quotations from the text published in the New York Times, September 2, 1944. 115 $ 5 NATURAL law has long since gone out of fashion; indeed, there was little left of it after Hume. Its obsolescence is partly due to the fact that the "law" it postulates is not the same kind of law os that out of which lawyers make a living. The stubborn absence in English of words such as other languages possess to convey this distinction, and its necessary applications, suggests som