n: the well-contrived ma- chine, if only it were let alone, would produce not only goods -but justice! It was that idea, embodied in the very phrase "social science." which rendered orthodox economics so sterile in application to the problems of an actual human society. Apart from the meta- physics of marginalism, which was a later development, the main body of that teaching was sound and useful. It showed with irrefutable logic the limits and general contour of the situation within which impersonal economic activity is carried on: a situa- tion that no system whatever can ignore with impunity. But the analogy to physical science applied in the study of human society constitutes the very core and cancer of falsehood; for it excludes the essential characteristic of the subject matter-just as if a physicist began by so describing phenomena as to exclude the fact of inertia. Thus the classical economists by harping on the notion of "science" ( as science was then understood) and claiming final- ity for the results because they were "natural" ( as nature was then understood ) paved the way for the preposterous contention that by setting avarice free of all restraints from top to bottom of so- ciety, a perfectly equitable state of affairs would result without the necessity on anyone's part for either moral philosophy or moral effort. Any farmhand or factory worker knows that that contention is false. Exclude morality from your calculations and you produce a polity every whit as unworkable as if you exclude rationality. But when farmhands and factory workers raised the cry of injustice, 10. The Distribution of Wealth, Preface. CAPITAL AND LABOR 135 classical economics knew not what they were talking about. Its logic was sounder than that of any alternative scheme they could appeal to; and it had no further answer because it had begun, quite legitimately, by excluding from its field that whole set of values human beings intend when they talk about justice and equity. Ninet