to a correspond ing enlargement and enrichment of human association. That had actually been the case in several earlier periods of renaissance. But this time the opposite tendency prevailed. The effective forms of human association became fewer, shallower, and progressively less catholic. Everyone knows how the prevalent type of force organization, the nation-state, came to dominate all other types of association-in fact, it killed off a great many; what is surprising is that, in a period of such promising activity, it met with so little resistance. The notion of geographical sovereignty was itself, as we have seen, a late arrival among social concepts, and when it received recognition it was merely as one type of association among others, by no means the most important. As la Is late as the eighteenth century-in a few cases, even the nineteenth-other forms of society were apt to put it in its place when it presumed too far: the cities and communes, the universities, the Catholic Church. and some of the Protestant sects. Indeed we may say, on a careful reading of history, that even in the eighteenth century it is a mis- take wholly to identify secular monarchy with the later notion of territorial sovereignty: despite Louis XIV, there was more to it than that. Then, almost suddenly, the life seems to die out of the - VALLEY OF DRY BONES 165 manifold forms of human association, and the geographical state has things all its own way; while that state itself, as a basis of association, becomes not only exclusive, monistic, arrogant, and quarrelsome, but spiritually poorer and thinner, less and less sig- dificant from the standpoint of full human personality. Not only is the notion of geographical patriotism a pretty thin gruel com- pared to other bases of solidarity that men have lived by; in our own day, and in spite of the sacrifices we have made to it, it has become admittedly thinner and less satisfying. But other types of association-including the family itself-have