igion of their subjects, it was inevitable that the agencies of religion-of which Rome was by no means the only one should strive for the control of governments. Calvinism and ultra- montanism must therefore always be viewed in relation to the growing absolutism of the period, which they supported when they could control it and attacked when they could not. In reply. the attack forced Louis XIV, as it had forced the Stuarts, to ex- tend the absolutist position onto ground that was entirely un- tenable. The Gallican Church under Louis, like the English Church under Laud, had neither strength enough to persecute à outrance nor authority enough to prevail by other means. In the end, Charles was beaten by the left and Louis capitulated to the right; but in neither case did the victory settle anything. The English, with their instinct for compromise, hit on a solution that could serve, most of the time, as a via media; but in France the 11. Quoted in Ritchie, D. G., Natural Rights, p. 15. 93 battle of the Jesuit order and the Masonic order continues un- abated to this day. Yet it was in France-the France of Henry IV-that the true foundation of tolerance was laid; perhaps a time will come again when France will build upon it. The religious wars and perse- cutions of the sixteenth century had brought together a group of humane spirits, mostly but not exclusively Catholic, who came to be called the Politiques the expression not being altogether com- plimentary. They stood for something new not only in the theory but in the spirit of government. It was not merely that they wanted to stop the killing and mitigate the hatred: in every war there is a small minority that wishes that, and it probably does not vary much in relative size. They saw that the scope and the preten- sions of sovereignty itself must be curtailed if there was to be any chance of peace and freedom. Their unofficial spokesman was Jean Bodin: one of the precursors of modern liberalism. In their view sovereig