the counterproposals of reform brought forward by his opponents were hopeless in the circumstances. In view of the nature of the opposition, he could not afford to tem- porize; the prompt suppression of their reply to St. Croix's pam- phlet shows this clearly. In fact, he seems to have realized that the fate of the monarchy itself might depend on drastic action, and -if a remark of the elder Mirabeau is to be trusted-to have come in the end to despair of that institution. Further, he had never been drawn very far into the a priori theorizing of the physiocrats. His use of the natural harmony theory, for example, is mostly con- fined to specific instances where the case for liberty could be empirically established on the facts. His application of the doc- trine of natural rights is, on the whole, similarly specific. His assertion of the right to work (droit de travailler) against the corporations goes nowhere near the danger point of 1848-Louis 7. Text in Oeuvres, Vol. V. Complete translation in Shepherd, R. P., Turgot and the Six Edicts. 8. Quoted in Oeuvres, Vol. V.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 144 Blanc attacked him for it.ยบ He was, in fact, well aware of the dangers of political sectarianism, and had more than once criti- cized the "sectarian attitude" and "fanatical tone" of the econo- mists. "As soon as savants surrender themselves in pride to con- stitute a body and say 'we,' and believe themselves able to give laws to public opinion, thoughtful public opinion revolts against them, wishing to receive laws from the truth only and not from authority." 10 The school with which Turgot would never quite identify him- self certainly lay open to the implied censure. De Tocqueville, in a very bitter passage, 11 contrasts the intellectual arrogance of the French liberals with the pragmatic moderation of the the English and Americans. The work of the former, he says, is supposed to rest on an adoration of human reason; but in truth it was merely their own reason they adored.