y 13. Say, loc. cit. 14. Webb, S., Industrial Democracy, II, 566.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 146 group action on the basis of common employment; it elevates the disintegration of corporate life into a series of maxims that lie at the root of the whole movement and its manifold sequel. The phrases of the Declaration sound plausible enough until one re- members the use to which they were put two years later: "The source of all sovereignty is essentially in the nation; no body, no individual, can exercise authority that does not proceed from it in plain terms. . . . Nothing can be forbidden that is not interdicted by the law, and no one can be constrained to do that which it does not order." 15 "Fanaticism," said Hegel in a trenchant phrase, "wills an ab- straction." The 1791 version of Turgot's policy shows the abstrac- tion triumphant. "There are no longer any gilds in the state, but only the private interest of each individual and the general in- terest. No one may arouse in the citizens any intermediate inter- est, or separate them from the public weal by corporate senti- ment." 16 In the time and place, Le Chapelier's famous declara- tion to the Constituent Assembly of 1791 sounded like a triumph of liberty, the climax of half a century's agitation by the pioneers of economic freedom. Actually it turned out to be divine-right monarchy in the dress of the period. The decree of 1791 makes of the sovereignty of law a denial of all group action in social life- not only unfortunately but mistakenly as well. Citizens of the same trade or calling-whatever their status-may form no asso- ciation, temporary or permanent, may make no joint decisions. may formulate no rules as to their "pretended common interests." may maintain no officers or records, may not even deliberate on common plans to affect the terms of employment. To do any of these things is made a criminal offense; to instigate them involves also the loss of citizenship. It is comprehensible, of course, that the long