oodness in it, its latent energy and aspiration, make it the happy hunting ground of every kind of evangelism (or almost every kind: the pretentious effort of the so-called "Oxford Movement" to eschew it was as amusing as it was unsuccessful). Consequently there is no inherent limit to the eccentricity of the movements that may be fathered upon it when its grasp of the integrative culture is neither habitually nor intellectually strong. There was, for instance, in the early tenth century, a Slavic cult, coming originally from the Near East, that found its way across the Balkans, into north Italy and Central Europe, where it picked up a large number of dought adherents. It had a corps of lay missionaries who taught that the world was evil and that the elect should avoid it. It denied the unique divinity of Christ and asserted that Christhood was the prerogative of every believer. It thus appealed to the native egali- THE BREAKDOWN OF UNIVERSALITY 71 tarianism of Frank and Germanic lands, and it found a tangible and popular objective in the wealth of the clergy and the hierar- chical organization of the Church. In that respect it became part of the growing agitation for reform; but unlike so much of that movement, it could not be absorbed or assimilated because its spirit was essentially hostile to the whole Catholic culture. Heresy is more a matter of intention than of doctrine; and this, by all ac- counts, was heresy. One is tempted to wonder whether the fate of those valiant Piedmont puritans-who clung so long like step- children to the skirts of Mother Church-might not have been less harsh, and their ultimate secession been avoided, but for the influence on them and on the hierarchy of this other group, with whom integration was radically impossible. Even an Innocent III must wonder, in that situation, how far he could safely go without letting the enemy into the citadel. As we now see, it was not the only time such a situation was to arise. It was complicated, as