there too. It was a non- conformist revolution, not much concerned with what ten cen- tries of Catholic thought had learned about nature. Hartley's God "associated with all our pleasures" soon becomes the pleasant "nature" of the English countryside (with the laborious hinds out of the way) that could give such refreshing sensations to tired poets. And three generations after Cumberland we have Adam Smith developing a Theory of Moral Sentiments in which God is dismissed with a ceremonial bow to the "Author of our Being" and nature gets the capital N. Man's conduct is mainly determined by his natural desire to evoke friendly and sympathetic responses from his fellow beings. But it is not, as yet, wholly so determined. Honest Adam, in this as in his larger work more sensible than systematic, admits that some factor other than mere sociability is at least occasionally operative; for there are times when men sacrifice their self-interest Thowever sociably you define self-interest-to some ideal that he clearly thinks superior. "It is not the soft power of humanity, it is not that feeble spark of benevolence which Nature has lighted up in the human heart, that is thus capable of counter-acting the strongest impulses of self-love. It is a stronger power, a more forcible motive, which exerts itself upon such, occasions. . . . It is reason, principle, conscience, the inhabitant of the breast, the man within." But the man within-"the demigod within the breast" as Smith elsewhere calls him-stood on rather shaky meta- physical ground; he tumbled sadly when the next generation tramped over it. And for the most part Smith was well content to let Cumberland's "social instinct" carry on: "When we consider such actions, as making a part of a system of behavior which tends to promote the happiness either of the individual or of the society, they appear to derive a beauty from this utility, not unlike that which we ascribe to any well-contrived machine." " Exactly! Succeeding generati