e state acting as schoolmaster even while they take its subsidies, trade-unions castigate their own elaborate and expensive bureaucracies. It is all an instinctive and irrepressible assertion of the demand for a private sphere of activity: laissez nous faire- the protest is both older and stronger than the theory; it goes back to Pericles. And even when it is demonstrated, as it has been a thousand times from Plato to Sidney Hook, that all sorts of col- lective desiderata could be encompassed if they would only be a bit more submissive, the common people stolidly insist on elbow- room for their unimportant personal adventures, and are peren- nially scolded by all the uncommon people who know better than they do what is good for them. The impulse is the leitmotiv of Hollywood, which has exploited it to the point of inculcating, quite unwittingly, an ethos of sheer anarchy. We have described it as a Western impulse (the term suggests the innumerable "Westerns" of the screen) but the designation needs a little scrutiny. In recent years the English-speaking peoples have revived their ancient claim to a celestial patent on the idea of personal liberty. Their popular spokesmen have formulated a racial theory to match that of their military opponents, in which, strangely enough, the Germans are credited with "an old strain of endemic barbarism." "To the German," writes a Czech professor in an American university, "National Socialist domination [Herr- schaft] is both method and goal. It is a value in itself, the highest value of all-an idea unacceptable to an Englishman or an Ameri- can." 3 One could quote scores of learned theses to the same effect, whether of this war or the last. Mr. Winston Churchill, whose in- terpretation of international events has never lacked color, in- formed the House of Commons on September 21, 1943, that they -"the German people"-"combine in the most deadly manner the qualities of the warrior and the slave. They do not value free- dom themselve