istocratic condescension not very different from the Aristo- telian contempt for the slave as a 'living tool.' Seneca, despite his pious universalism, prays 'forgive the world: they are all fools.'" 9 Perhaps we are: was that then to be the conclusion of the whole matter? Was the law behind the law so recondite that only the wise and prudent could get a glimpse of it? Had the wayfaring man really no choice but to err? By this time-the last two cen- turies of the pre-Christian era-wayfaring men throughout the disintegrating Hellenic world were desperately seeking some sort of solace. Pauperized, exiled, deracinated by the plague of "con- querors, wastrels and hangmen," this growing internal proletariat (to use Toynbee's phrase ) could on occasion show its resentment with a savagery that exceeded even that of its oppressors; but within its suffering mass a new spiritual self-consciousness was gestating that no philosophy of the upper-class intellectuals could satisfy. Did the poor, the simple, and the weak count for nothing any more? Was their existence meaningless to whatever ruled the cosmos? Was it their everlasting fate merely to be pushed around the flinty world, told to kill or be killed, left to hunt or grovel for a living in the debris that power politics had made of their little communities? They flock to conjurors, astrologers, and sorcerers, they cry to every god they know-to Dionysus and Helios, to Isis and Baal and Cybele and Mithra-seeking not philosophy, but sal- 9. Niebuhr, R., The Nature and Destiny of Man, I, 9-10.  48 THE LIBERAL TRADITION vation. And still above the clamor rise those grand clear voices of the Jewish prophets, whose judgment of the nations will not con- done the degradation of the peoples: the moral rot that every age of confusion brings-the avarice of the rich, of the public con- tractors and the speculators, the venality of the lawyers, the ex- tinction of pity, the sexual license rampant in high and low: be it all never so univer