its continued exist- ence was worth another war; yet it is futile to propound that issue in terms of good people and bad people. People did what the did, things were as they were, because the blind stresses of system of nation-states could not, and cannot, shape the issue otherwise. This is not to deny that state policies may be affected. within quite narrow limits, by voluntary and personal pressures: but modern history gives unanimous evidence that the radical change in the interrelation of societies which life now urgently requires cannot be achieved without radical change in the very nature of the structure in which they are predominantly cast. Said Bertrand Russell, thirty years ago, "Every increase in the strength of the state has been a new disaster to mankind." It would seem to follow that every policy which tends in that direction has the weight of evidence against it. 169 ยง 3 THE political state as an agent of widening human community is fatally handicapped by the fact that it is not, and cannot be, human enough. It is too abstract, too impersonal, too monistic. The one sphere in which a monistic, impersonal institution is clearly necessary is the enunciation and execution of law in a settled community. Law must be the same for everybody, and must have a central source, because we cannot get along with several differ- ent systems of organized coercion, nor admit several different kinds of authority to coerce. In the formulation and execution of law the state is bound on the one hand by principles of justice that spring from the true nature of man; but it is also bound, on the other, to the active life of the community in which, and through which, those principles are continuously articulated. This is the process we paused to watch in ancient Rome. As here expressed, it corresponds to Stammler's "natural law with changing content," and is in opposition to pragmatic, instrumentalist, or deterministic definitions. But communities engage collectively in a vas