a, a party has succeeded in in- troducing a second system of coercion, the result was the breakup of the political community in revolution and despotism. Liberalism can never allow any group or party, any church, corporation, or trade-union, to violate this first postulate of order. Second, the system of coercive law is itself subject to moral principles which it does not itself determine, no matter who or · 13. Gierke, O. F. von, Natural Law, I, v, 15, pp. 64-67. 14. Sabine, op. cit., p. 405. Cf. the excellent study of Damville in Palm, F. C., Politics and Religion in Sixteenth-Century France. 95 what may be called sovereign. Even the pope, said Suárez, cannot change natural law; it is a part, said St. Thomas, of the divine or- der, the part that particularly concerns secular power. It was only a few Protestant extremists who ever affected to believe that if there is a law above the king, only the king can declare it. The last- ing significance of natural-law theory is that it puts true authority beyond the reach of the tyrant, and says to the state, Thus far and no farther. Natural-law philosophy does not hold-perhaps it never did-that political society rests on an actual, historical, or implicit contract: even though such great scholars as Maine and Thering thought that "all jurisdiction if we could trace it far back enough would be found to be in its origin not compulsory, but voluntary." 15 What this school through its modern exponents- Krabbe and Stammler, for example-does assert is that law derives its claim to obedience from something that informs the minds and wills of living persons dwelling in community, and from no other source whatever. As Krabbe puts it: "The fact is once for all that no one can exercise any control over the working of men's sense of right. The legislator or any other alleged possessor of power is as powerless as a private person to silence the sense of right of any individual whatever . It lies in no man's power to decide what shall h