regions as Western Europe, Latin America, and North America; but the probability is that if Germany and Japan are loft merely to fight their way back into a shrinking world market, the struggle will be increasingly arduous and bitter. And what is tre of those countries will be true in considerable measure of Great Britain also. Second, there is considerable evidence to suggest that the op- position of the United States administration to international eco- nomic agreements springs not merely from an abstract devotion to the principle of free competition (plus tariff protection ) but from a determination to back an aggressive trade drive on behalf of American business. If American declarations about free enter- prise and the opening up of foreign markets presaged an inten- tion to begin at home by opening up the American market, the British would be more impressed. In an important statement on economic policy by the then Attorney General of the United States  272 THE PEACE-BY-FORCE ILLUSION THE LIBERAL TRADITION on February 23, 1944,17 Mr. Biddle said: "If we recognize that con- sumers may have a just complaint when they are forced to pay monopoly prices for goods or products sold old them by a foreign producer, we should"-remember that the tariff is the mother of the trusts? Not at all-"create some forum in which these com plaints could be heard." Foreign firms, as well as domestic con sumers, have been complaining for a long time; but without much effect. In the same statement Mr. Biddle declared that "this Gov ernment should stand ready to assist American producers, if neces- sary, to gain access to foreign markets." If the public were e per- mitted to know more about the activities of the Export-Import Bank and its affiliated agencies operating with public funds, and of the nature of economic warfare as waged in Latin America, it would gain a vivid insight into Mr. Biddle's meaning. It was cer- tainly interested, in April, 1944, to learn of the journey of the pres