s essence, is a part of life; and where it is destroyed, the alternative is death. It represents the effort to for- mulate, as a principle of collective action, certain fundamental dispositions of human nature. As such, it inherits a tradition un- matched by any other political principle; yet it is not the only principle, the only tenable position, and nothing is gained by speaking as if it were. To describe liberalism, as many of its Ameri- can exponents do, in terms so broad as to exclude the possibility of belief in its opposite is in fact to rob it of serviceable meaning. A distinguished Englishman speaking from the Tory standpoint in the United States in 1914 remarked that "the average American thinks that he understands the aims and views of the radical party. They are the aims and views of all sensible and enlightened men!" Such a frame of mind does not make for clarity(Along with modern liberalism, conservatism grew in strength and self-consciousness -its necessary foil and complement. Together these principles re- flect the polarity of life itself, of all phenomenal existence. Force and inertia, action and reaction, change and stability, the dynamic and the static-without this universal dualism, meaning and reality, on the human plane at least, vanish into nothingness. No mechanical system of checks and balances, no reorganization of LIBERALISM AND CONSERVATISM 7 collective life on the basis of mere interests or areas, can alto- gether supplant this deep polarity; nor, in the end, can any tyranny destroy it. Without the centripetal check of conservatism, liberalism flies off in tangents toward doctrinaire radicalism, aca- demic utopianism, or philosophic anarchy. Without the centrifu- gal urge, conservatism becomes mere dead-centrism, ossification of class or caste structure, Colonel Blimp with his what-we-have- we-hold. The practical significance of either school is to be sought in their constant interplay throughout the course of history, in the record of