chmen of the 1880's it seemed that French civili- zation was passing into the control of a power that knew no coun- try and had no roots; and conscious as they were that the finest through a specific nativity, values of a culture attain universality th their sense of mission took on an almost sacred character. The state, it seemed to them, was ceasing ag to be master in its own house; the new power was the power of money, and it was visibly corrupting its subjects, high and low alike. That power was in pri- vate hands-it gravitated by its very nature toward private hands; and those hands were not particularly clean, not particularly cul- tured, and above all, not particularly French. And it might be that there was something in the revolutionary tradition itself, or in the ambivalent origins of the Third Republic, that played into them. On that score at least, royalists and ultramontanists would agree. But what was it these young men (one always thinks of them as young) really wanted? They proclaimed from the housetops. with every variety of fanfare, what they were against; but what were they for? Most of them were revanchistes-which was natu- INDIVIDUALISM ral enough, but neither very original nor very constructive; most 155 of them were anti-Dreyfusards and exalted the army-but more than that was required for a national movement. They flirted with royalism, but few were genuine monarchists: there is something curiously unconvincing about Léon Daudet's late conversion to monarchy and the Church, and his was one of many such cases. They flirted with catholicism. Had they seriously endeavored- as so many of their most gifted compatriots are now doing-to restore their country to its pivotal position in a reunited Christen- dom, then indeed a glorious Easter might have dawned on the lilies of France. But did they suppose they could make the tradition of Catholic Christendom itself an instrument of their ambition, or their discontent, or even their ardent patriotism? App