ore them. The scheme of world order proffered by the "big three" at San Francisco (how nauseating becomes this ceaseless talk of big- ness!) is the logical conclusion of a strictly materialistic phi- losophy. What is offered is an undisguised sphere-of-influence partitioning of the planet, of which the conspicuous feature is the determination of the big powers to exclude each other, and fortiori any third parties, from any area or situation in which any a one of them has or asserts a major interest. The intent of the whole procedure is to secure advance assent to this policy of exclusion. notwithstanding that in the most critical areas the spheres of in- fluence are not yet defined. How they are to be defined we are not informed; but obviously no general ethical or juridical princi- ples can be laid down, since their formulation would constitute a valid ground for third party intervention; and it is argued with brutal candor that outside the big three-plus-two the requisite physical force would not be available to make any general princi- ples effective. It is for this that the American people will be asked to sacrifice, through an unlimited future, a major part of their productive resources, and possibly a year or so of the life of every male citizen; yet history gives no assurance that this sort of bigness has ever brought peace one step nearer, nor ever been big enough to overcome the defiance of even unarmed people. When events are moving in an atavistic direction, anachronistic minds appear advanced; and in proportion as men abandon their whole tradition of spiritual enlightenment, their tendency is in- evitably atavistic. The Atlantic civilization finds itself headed no longer west, but back toward the cradle of the race; and Britain, having led the destruction of Western Europe, now has to barter its own traditions to buy a new balance of power. The prospect is one with which liberalism cannot compromise and remain liberal Even at the risk of total extinction