themselves a liberty of public expression concerning their opponents, both foreign and domestic, that has rarely been equaled by the responsible leaders of any nation except Germany. It is further noteworthy that the attempt of Argentina to lay its case before a meeting of the Pan-American Union, of which that state was a member, was carefully frustrated by the calling of a meeting of Latin American states under another title, from which the Argentine was excluded. In addition to these negative policies. the enormous expenditure and investment of public funds of the United States in friendly or allied countries of South America must be borne in mind; and it is therefore legitimate to ask how much of a welcome the world policeman would find in the event of trouble south of the Rio Grande. Would the State Department be willing to waive the special exemption accorded the Monroe Doc- trine in the original League of Nations Covenant? Would it stand on Secretary Olney's declaration that "the United States is prac- tically sovereign on this continent"-a contention obviously strengthened by its assumption of the burden of hemisphere de- fense? And how far would Britain be willing to go in implement- ing a decision adverse to America? It is more than likely that the exclusion of the interrelations of the "big three" from general scrutiny would also, for obvious practical reasons, extend to their satellites and spheres of influence. If, in this rapid glance over world power-alignments, we finally return to Europe, how much scope for autonomous foreign policy and third-party intervention can we discern? Whatever discre- tion may be left to whatever sort of Germany, there will be no possibility of independent external action for a generation. Small RETREAT FROM LIBERALISM bates, whatever constitutions and boundaries may be assigned shem, will exist only by and with the consent of the extra-Eu- 245 pean powers; they will not again be put in a position to be- "me the objects of a