the popular will. While he was willing to credit ""the species" with a sound moral instinct for the long run, Burke's distrust of what he under- stood by democracy was much more than horror at the violence of the French Revolution. Acton-to point the contrast-struck the note of modern lib- eralism in his bold declaration that "Liberty is not a means to a higher political end. It is itself the highest political end."" Burke would hardly have accepted that, even with Acton's reiteration of the adjective; nor should anyone accept it unless he is prepared to master and live up to the philosophy of life which lies behind it. If that demand seems exigent, it is also evident that the rule is neither safe nor satisfying in any other case. And however en- couraging that philosophy may turn out to be, it is noteworthy that Acton shared Burke's distrust of democracy. Both men dis- cerned in the vague idea of "government by the people" a kinship not remote to what we now call "dictatorship of the proletariat"; and since each, in his own way, passionately cared for freedom, the tyranny of numbers was to them as dire a menace as the tyranny of cliques or individuals. Shall we say their fear was ill founded? This at least we must say: that there is no more urgent task for modern liberalism than to clarify the concepts of au- thority on the one hand and democracy on the other; for our wretched state is due in no small measure to the flagrant mis- understanding and practical abuse of both. ยง 4 CONSERVATISM is a very early and a very late characteristic of societies. Primitive peoples are conservative with the instinctive wisdom of women and animals. Mature societies find a more con- 9. Acton, History of Freedom, p. 22. LIBERALISM AND CONSERVATISM 13 scious though not perhaps essentially different motive. A con- servative philosophy will hardly become prevalent unless there is something satisfying to conserve-or something worse to fear. The motives mix; but governing classes are apt