its pattern of external economic success, and the spiritual needs of the normal individual.º Another, Dr. Karl Menninger, has vividly depicted some of the darker aspects of the situation, especially its relation to the war impulse.10 With the deeper analysis we are not as yet concerned; our present point is simply that when the liberal, following Aristotle, says "free- dom" he means freedom-an active, full-blooded personal liberty, experienced as such, and tenaciously held to as "the highest po- litical end." It is now more than ever necessary to nail that inten- tion firmly to the masthead. To do so does not solve any problems. On the contrary, it raises the most difficult problems human in- telligence has to face, in practice as well as theory. But liberalism alone never has said, and never can say: Brothers, these problems are too many and too difficult for us; let us therefore turn aside and seek some other goal. § 3 THE difficulty of the problems was perhaps better realized by the Greeks than by the optimists of the eighteenth century, or certain 8. The Dial, August, 1923. 9. Horney, K., The Neurotic Personality of Our Time. 10. Menninger, K., Man against Himself. THE CLASSICAL FOUNDATIONS 31 - old-fashioned individualists of the twentieth. The naïve notion of freedom- the opportunity to do what one likes, to exercise one's powers and follow one's impulses without let or hindrance-fur- nished Socrates and his disciples with the starting point of their ethical analysis. They had, as everyone knows, no difficulty in show- ing that this naïve notion by itself alone gives no sufficient founda- tion for lasting happiness or social peace. They therefore pro- ceeded to construct a hierarchy of values-which in Plato became a hierarchy of men-and various definitions of the "good" life and the "good" society that became less and less serviceable as they became more and more complete. The freedom to which Pericles and the poets looked back was essentially a simple and imm