w offers interesting possibilities. That enterprising guild of journalists popularly known as the Department of Justice has on various occasions essayed to evalu- ate, on a priori grounds, just how much was given and received by American concerns under international cross-licensing agree- ments. In so doing it has had to impose its own criteria, which have been markedly at variance from those of the scientists and cor- porations directly concerned. But any such post hoc evaluation misses the point. The uses and benefits of any patent are never wholly predictable. Cross-licensing agreements represent, in the first place, an effort at mutual protection of intangible assets within foreign jurisdiction; and in the second, a framework within which scientific teamwork between the parties can be carried on to mutual advantage. It is a legitimate criticism that the advantage is often too narrowly restricted, and too harshly exploited; way and means of meeting that criticism can be devised; but the inter- nationality of the arrangement is in itself a feature that should be commended and encouraged. International cooperation in ap- 10. Berge, W., Cartels, chap. iv. THE PEACE-BY-FORCE ILLUSION 267 plied science is no less desirable than in medicine, scholarship, and the arts; and it is more practical to develop it, and guide it, on the existing basis than to destroy it and then sit waiting for the ideal medium to turn up. That ideal medium is not likely, in any case, to be the national political state. It might conceivably be an international version of something like the Automobile Chamber of Commerce; but to be effective it would need to be autonomous. $ 5 THE political aims of the Department of Justice are not easy to discern. In the course of its investigations it has discovered that certain American and foreign corporations in associated lines of business had made arrangements, or at least expressed a wish, to preserve their basis of association during the period of natio