es. It was the pet aversion of both Lenin and Trotsky. It has been dissected and denounced by Stalin, Hitler, Mussolini, Pius IX, and Professor Laski. Dogmatists and determinists of the red or the black, defenders of the tyranny of men or majorities, exponents of class war, racial war, or national war, have discovered beneath their differences a common determi- nation to give political liberalism a premature burial. The prisoner of the Vatican saw it, in the 1860's, as a force that was not merely anticlerical but antireligious, undermining the foundations of faith, destroying authority in the name of a specious individualism, lead- ing, in the end, to predatory materialism and social chaos. The dis- ciples of the rival Church of Moscow inform us, in tones no less authoritative, that liberalism was the mere rationalization of the interests of the bourgeoisie. Professor Laski agrees with the Pope as to the connection between liberalism and individualism; but in his view, and that of the school of thought he represents, the whole complex was simply the self-assertion of the social class that is supposed to have shaken off its mediaeval shackles between the Reformation and the French Revolution. The new philosophy that thus arose was "directly related to freedom; for it came as the foe of privilege conferred upon any class in the community by virtue of birth or creed. But the freedom it sought had no title to universality, since its practice was limited to men who had prop- erty to defend. . . . The individual liberalism has sought to pro- tect is always, so to say, free to purchase his freedom in the society it made; but the number of those with the means of purchase at their disposal has always been a minority of mankind." 1 It would seem to follow that the self-assertion of the more numerous class of nonowners will impose, as of right, yet another philosophy in which if there is any privilege, it will at least be based not on birth or creed but on interest; and we ar