tion of the processes of social metabolism that were already operative, with a compensating debility and slow convalescence afterward. On the land, the position of British and Irish agriculture was difficult enough before the war; when the blockade was broken and the land bubble burst, how was the interest of the consumer to be reconciled with that of the farmer? In the towns, just as trading capital held the lead in the days of the merchant adventurers, so now industrial capital was taking the lead in the rise of the technical adventurers. The situation called urgently for a redefinition of the duty of government to the mass of propertyless wage earners. Mercantilism had demanded cheap raw materials and cheap labor for the export trade: a de- 8. Lipson, loc. cit. CAPITAL AND LABOR mand that the radical manufacturers of the new era insistently en- 129 Horsed. But how far, when one actually looked at the cheap labor in say, the purlieus of Manchester and Bolton, did that square with the interests of the consumer? Much of that cheap labor was wild labor, because adults were too expensive: they could be hmusted to lie on the straw and copulate anyhow, and the tiny fots ate less; so down the mine and into the mill they went, while the parents starved at "home." Now were these people consum- ers, and if so, were their interests, rather than those of the produc- ers, to be government's primary concern? After thirty years' de- bate, part of that issue was settled in favor of cheap food for cheap labor. But was that the whole of it? The climax of English anticombination law followed the French by only eight years; but whereas the latter was avowedly doc- binaire in character, the former was mainly the product of cir- cumstances. The situation in England much resembled that at the close of the first German war, when the deflation policy of the employers' associations that controlled the government was rein- forced by latent panic about the influence of the Russian Revolu- ti