est pol- icy. (Marat subsequently made almost an epigram of this: "If from the desire to make a fortune be taken away the desire to establish a reputation, farewell to good faith." 13 ) We cannot as- sume-as Turgot had argued-that competition for trade will prove a sufficient guarantee against fraud, or compel employers to discriminate in favor of the best workmen. And through the pro- test runs an undertone of fear of disorder and violence once the "turbulent youth" is loosed from the restraints then lying on it. It is true, of course, as the Webbs have pointed out, 14 that Seguier presents a typical defense of vested interests in occupations; but he also shows an appreciation of the role of corporate entities in social life that Turgot and his school fatally lacked. A second weakness is the tendency toward rash generalization, conspicuously illustrated in the fundamental maxim of Turgot's policy. "The root of the evil," he says, "is in the very right accorded to artisans of the same trade to associate and act together in a body." Accordingly, the decree (Art. XIV) abolishes and pro- hibits not merely the tyrannous associations of masters but all asso- ciations of artisans, companions, or apprentices as well, acquiring thus that purely negative and destructive character that modern French commentators have deplored. And all in the name of in- dividual freedom! The individual was ostensibly being given the chance to seek his own interest; yet if his interest lay-as it was increasingly to lie-in one paramount direction, he was expressly and rigorously enjoined from pursuing it. ยง 4 IT WAS precisely this negative character that subsequent legisla- tion developed and emphasized. Not only does the revolutionary legislation prohibit, in the most detailed and specific way, any 13. Say, loc. cit. 14. Webb, S., Industrial Democracy, II, 566.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 146 group action on the basis of common employment; it elevates the disintegration of corporate life into a ser