of that court of nine men which constitutes the ultimate sovereign of the United States. ยง 2 THE need of clearly conceived political principles has increased with the appalling array of issues on which the electorate and its  8 THE LIBERAL TRADITION representatives are vainly supposed to be informed. The develop- ment of the popular press and the spread of political broadcasting have stimulated the interest and concern of the masses hardly less than the prod of taxation; but they have also engendered a sense of bewilderment and frustration. Walter Lippmann described it in his penetrating study, The Phantom Public (1925): "The facts far exceed our curiosity. .. . The man does not live who can read all the reports that drift across his doorstep or all the dispatches in his newspaper. And if by some development of the radio every man could see and hear all that was happening everywhere, if publicity, in other words, became absolute"-then, says Mr. Lippmann, the ordinary person would have to give up in despair. "General in- formation for the informing of public opinion is altogether too general for intellectual decency. And life is too short for the pur- suit of omniscience by counting all the leaves on all the trees." In business it is well known that the more numerous the small stockholders of a corporation, the smaller, as a rule, will be the size of the group required to exercise voting control. Something of the sort, as Mr. Lippmann recognizes, obtains in politics: "normally people leave their proxies to a kind of professional public consist- ing of more or less eminent persons. Most issues are never carried beyond this ruling group: the lay publics catch only echoes of the debate." In what the eminence of the eminent persons consists, how it is acquired, we need not for the moment consider: ideally it vindicates Burke's theory of representative government-which, says Lord Acton, "laid down for ever the law of the relations be- tween members and constituencies, whi