ority, appeal was made to one of two-as it was to fun! were, fragmentary-substitutes: either to state establishments ancelone; only that retained a church but dropped the catholicity, or to declara-sew/ tions of rights that retained the catholicity (in theory at least) but when  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 60 dropped the Church. Each had its limitations; and the two halves failed to make a whole. In comparing our ideas and institutions with those of another age, a strenuous effort is needed to escape the folly of provincial- ism in time and space. We are beset by the temptation to seek only the "origins" of things we consider important-assuming that those origins lie mainly, or solely, in the temporal succession of events; to high light the picture so that all the rest remains obscure; and thus to produce the illusion that its entire meaning is exhausted in the satisfaction of our curiosity. In this way the nineteenth-century dogma of "progress" still controls our per- spective. What we may profitably seek in history are the under- lying truths of human nature, and the ways in which those truths have been implemented by other societies in other times. Among those ways some of great value-and some of little value-are still open to us; these we have in many cases paved and widened But others are buried deep in the ever-encroaching jungle of human passion and perversity; and among them may be some that could lead us out of our present confusion. To search for these calls for intellectual and moral courage. Particularly is this true in the neglected field of political phi- losophy. "It is very difficult for us to interpret the mediaeval tem- per: we are still in a large measure under the influence of a con- ception of sovereignty as representing some absolute and even arbitrary authority in the state or the church which was unknown to the Middle Ages. The only sovereignty they recognized was that of the law; and even that was subject to the law of God or nature." 2 It was evi