there was every prospect of a vigorous trade war. Thanks very largely to American initiative and assistance pacific counsels prevailed. The reparations incubus was lifted out of politics with the aid of substantial loans to both France and Germany. The Herriot-MacDonald-Stresemann teamwork pre- pared the way for the Locarno treaties; and the big industries drew up their own peace pacts across the frontiers. The most famous of these pacts was the International Steel Cartel. Many others were created, extended, or revived at about this time; and current opinion-so far as it noticed anything deeper than the political façade of things-was distinctly favorable. Much of it has remained so, seeing in voluntary economic nic agreements the only alternative to a chaotic free-for-all in international affairs, with every foreign office backing its local team of bankers, promoters and producers. These working agreements between national industrial groups have been developing steadily for three quarters of a century; they represent a permanent trend in economic organization running, in America, about a generation ahead of current political ideology. Thus, for example, American railroads were establishing uniform rates in the 'eighties, and the courts in the 'nineties admitted that neither the policy nor the rates themselves were ipso facto un- reasonable; nonetheless, it was 1920 before the politicians officially THE PEACE-BY-FORCE ILLUSION recognized that the relations of rival hucksters on a village street ere not necessarily the most suitable model for a transcontinental 265 wansport system. That same period witnessed the second techno- Logical revolution, compared to which the so-called industrial revolution was a small and local affair. The age of little business passed rapidly into the age of big business, just as, in our time, for every basic industry without exception, the at age of national big business has passed into the age of international big business. As usual, work