zation of both individual and social life. Secularization is a process of replacing the sacred by the secular, of replacing theo- logical postulates of thought and belief by rational ones and mystical-supernatural controls over behavior by social-naturalisti ones. Our own is undoubtedly the most secular culture the world THE POSITIVIST ATTACK has yet seen."- It is. It is also by far the bloodiest and most de- 201 structive; but that is presumably because science has not yet "pro- dressed" far enough. It will be noted that the author, like most modern rationalists, is willing to make an act of faith in Science as absolute as any theist ever made in God. The attitude to religion of which this is a sample is not, of course, confined to sociology, nor is it characteristic of all schools of sociology; but there is a reason why sociology should be its stronghold. The natural sciences and the disciplines of economics, political theory, law, and jurisprudence have their special fields of concentration; and though at certain points they must and do refer to more general views, their main concern is not with them. But insofar as sociology, following Herbert Spencer, aspired to become the synthetic philosophy, it was bound to encounter what it quite rightly regarded as the other synthetic philosophy, namely, religion; and its omnium-gatherum therefore drew together the various lines of intellectual enterprise that bore on the common antagonist. The influence of the natural sciences is abundantly evident in such pronouncements as those just cited, and little more need now be said about it. A good deal of the ground had been cleared by Descartes, with his cogito ergo sum. The maxim might just as well have been put the other way round; but Descartes was so proud of that cogito that he could see no further significance in the sum. The real founder of positivist sociology was Auguste Comte (1798-1857). Comte was no ordinary man. Both his in- fellectual stamina and his psychotic dis