nd tactics-to our gen- erals; but for purposes of peace free people must master means as well as ends. For the means will shape the ends-as the history of modern Germany reminds us. In the battle of the faiths that is now actively involved, as it was three centuries ago, in the battle of the nations, those whose position is weak or ill defined will stand no chance at all. The faith of the liberal is the hardest to define because it is the boldest and the biggest. Rationalist utopias can exhibit (on paper) all the scientific neatness of the prison, the hospital, or the factory: lib- eralism does not propose to model the life of society on the prison or the hospital, and even looks askance at too many factories. Col- lectivists are fond of the argument "We did it in war, why can't we do it in peace?" Liberals do not propose to model the life of society on the army or the Wehrwirtschaft. In all the hard bright schemes that have crystallized out of modern materialism the ordi- nary human being is put in his place with a platonic knee, or some- thing more urgent, at his back; the reason being that there is so much more to human nature than what the doctrinaires have any use for. But out of that more come both the folly and the wisdom, the passion and the insight, the virtue and the fun of human life; and the liberal will never sacrifice the full range of personal living to the symmetry of a mere political or economic system. Liberalism therefore, with Aristotle for its godfather, stands INTRODUCTION 3 firm rooted in the Christian ethos: the only one that takes the human being in all his concrete imperfection, and with everlasting forbearance seeks to make the best of him. It is significant that lib- eralism and Christianity (of which it is the political application) in modern times went down together; and now are coming up together. Liberalism, like Christianity, is a philosophy of means as well as ends; and with a modesty rare in these days, it prefers to talk about the