d in America with the character of a moral cru- sade; and in that aspect it seems to warrant an enlargement of state prerogative that would be tolerated on no other pretext. Such a combination of interrelated circumstances has all the makings of a serious crisis for American liberalism. In this juncture some of Acton's observations are worth recall- ing. "The most certain test by which we judge whether a country is really free is the amount of security enjoyed by minorities . . It is bad to be oppressed by a minority, it is worse to be oppressed by a majority." He traced the decadence of Athenian democracy to "the possession of unlimited power, which corrodes the con- science, hardens the heart, and confounds the understanding of monarchs." In the decline of the Roman principate he noted "the dogma that absolute power may, by the hypothesis of a popular origin, be as legitimate as constitutional freedom." And with re-  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 100 spect to the need for principle in affairs of state he said: "A gov- ernment entirely dependent on opinion looks for some security what that opinion shall be, strives for the control of the forces that shape it, and is fearful of suffering the people to be educated in sentiments hostile to its institutions. It is worth while also to recall Acton's constant praise of the American Constitution for its self-limiting qualities: "Whilst Eng- land was admired for the safeguards with which, in the course of many centuries, it had fortified liberty against the power of the Crown, America appeared still more worthy of admiration for the safeguards which, in the deliberations of a single memorable year. it had set up against the power of its own sovereign people." 20 Yes: what was said and done that year has still its message for the American people-in more respects than one. 20. Acton, Lord, History of Freedom, pp. 4, 11, 78, 64-65, 83. VI Sovereignty versus Community 1. Responsibility for the people. - 2. Contract theories. - 3. Natu