xclusive right of selling me this or that article, he becomes from that moment the dictator of the price; I have to submit to his terms. Once a regulation forces me to employ a particular work- man, he charges me what he likes. Give me back my freedom, and the monopoly is at an end." 6 The whole case against the gilds is summed up in a tremendous peroration prefixed to the edict of abolition-the denial of opportunity to the mass of willing work- 4. Levasseur, P. E., Classes Ouvrières, II, 633. 5. Mémoire, Oeuvres, Vol. V. 6. Martin-St. Léon, E., Histoire des corporations de métiers, VI, 3. INDIVIDUALISM 143 ers, the rigid exclusion of women, the technical obscurantism and social parochialism, the enhancement of the cost of living by all sorts of arbitrary fees and charges levied on the workmen, the everlasting quarrels over jurisdiction, the effective maintenance of a pitiless plutocracy.7 So far, so good: it is in the reasoning by which a general princi- ple was extracted from this specific situation that our interest principally lies. In Turgot's abortive policy of 1776, as well as in & resurrection by the Constituent Assembly fifteen years later, the harsh and doctrinal tendency stands out clearly; and it is impos- sible altogether to exonerate him from some of the charges levied against the encyclopaedists and physiocrats. From their worst faults his practicality and common sense saved him: he was more intent on getting things done than on theorizing about them. As Voltaire said: 8 A Turgot, je crois fermement; Je ne sais pas ce qu'il va faire, Mais grâce à Dieu, c'est le contraire De ce qu'on fit jusqu'à présent. The extreme character of the 1776 legislation is not entirely the result of doctrinaire thinking. As a practical statesman, Turgot may well have felt that the counterproposals of reform brought forward by his opponents were hopeless in the circumstances. In view of the nature of the opposition, he could not afford to tem- porize; the prompt suppression