oint of view. Thus the corporate aspect of spiritual life is almost entirely absent from the perspective. Again, the full significance of the his- 5. Dawson, C., The Judgment of the Nations, p. 98. 6. Ruggiero, Guido de, European Liberalism, p. 14. 7. Bury, J. B., History of Freedom of Thought, p. 52. THE BREAKDOWN OF UNIVERSALITY 65 forical struggle is dwarfed; and since Niebuhr is far too good a scholar to view the matter as a simple escape from bondage to liberty, a peculiarly difficult dilemma arises. It seems at times as if his sole solution lay in advancing from the priesthood of all be- lievers to the principle of every man his own theologian-which in Cromwell's time led not so far as was hoped for. The second type of interpretation is to most modern readers more familiar; it is that which emphasizes the interplay of secular impulse and material circumstance. In this view the expansion of trade, the rise of a money economy, the advance of science, and the discovery of the new world play the leading roles; to these and the derivative factors is ascribed the dominant influence in the development of the Protestant ethic. Contemporary material- ism invokes the authority of Marx for this view in its extreme form; but as Tawney very justly observes,8 Marx was a better sociologist than economist; and in his interpretation of history Marx was not a very good Marxist. He expressly denied that economic causes are the only ones, and expected them to become less and less im- portant. Perhaps his modern exponents would consent to admit him as a "fellow traveler." The weight of his emphasis, however, as applied by Sombart, Weber, Tawney, and many others, has opened up a most valuable field of investigation; both our knowl- edge and our understanding have been immensely enriched-and the problem of historical interpretation given a fresh complexity. Two major distinctions must be borne in mind in our approach to the mainsprings of the modern world. First is the distinction b