aware of the lack of connection between the topical discourses they hear from the pulpit and the sentimental terms and associations in which those discourses are set. Religion becomes mere uplift and humani- tarianism, and in such worthy causes the Protestant churches are merely one type of organization among many-not a very effec- tive one at that. One may ask further what this residual religion really has to say about the work of the world. In point of message it is ap- parently seeking to blend the virtues of puritan individualism with a vaguely collectivist ideal, drowning the technical difficulties in a flood of fraternal sentiment. One should work hard and be thrifty (or should one? Both the Gospel writers and the Keynesian economists are a bit doubtful); one should do things that are  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 196 socially useful (which implies a criterion, either dogmatic or prag- matic); one should be a good worker, a good employer, a good citizen-how trite it all sounds! Any brand of religion can exhort. but can it inspire? Can it give new meaning to the suffering of the soldier, the toil of the housewife, the work of the farmer, the riveter, the teacher, the artist, the administrator? Yes, apparently it can-on one condition: that it goes nationalist. Modern na tionalism has actually superseded Protestant religion over a ver wide area of Western society. It has taken over the drive, the emotionalism, and much of the technique. The drive is towar death; but people willingly ignore that in their satisfaction finding something that can fully absorb them, something with 1 at kick in it. The modern cathedral is the battleship. Thus, since both individual and society yearn for integration of some sort, a false and partial synthesis usurps the place of a true one. The more strictly ideological forces at work either tended to confirm that result, or proved too weak to avert it. Protestant re ligion, in becoming individualistic, also became highly subjective. Apart fro