n plans to affect the terms of employment. To do any of these things is made a criminal offense; to instigate them involves also the loss of citizenship. It is comprehensible, of course, that the long oppression of the individual should have led to some overstatement of the case; but it needs more than that to justify the extent to which that case was pushed. It was suggested to Le Chapelier, for example, that voluntary associations of workmen might be permissible when their purpose was mutual help in time of sickness or unemploy- ment. But he would have none of it. That, he says, is the duty of society, acting through its officials, and for it to be done privately, 15. Anderson's translation in Constitutions and Documents. 16. Quoted in Pic, P., Traité élémentaire de législation industrielle, III, 4. INDIVIDUALISM if not absolutely dangerous through bad administration, at any rate tends to resurrect the corporations.17 Martin-St. Léon has re- 147 peatedly pointed out the sterility of the two extremes of individ- nalism and state socialism. In fact, there were not even two extremes, but only one; for the French state was extraordinarily slow to acknowledge any positive responsibility in the matter. The nation was thus saddled with a half truth that was considerably less than half true. A doctrine of individualism shorn of the right of association is in its nature static and reactionary. The atomic theory of society amounts to a denial of the very forces that create society; it is in fact a theory, not of society, but of sovereignty. The pure individual is a pure abstraction, and a state that is sup- posed to consist solely of such individuals is an abstraction too. Abstractions are useful in their proper place; but applied to a world of living persons they invariably become tyrannical. The individualism of revolutionary theory, despite its optimistic as- sumptions, enacted into law the fallacies of Hobbes; and what re- sulted was Leviathan. But there were two things