tempt, however clumsy it may seem to segregate the elements of the problem as it has developed in the stress of modern times; remembering that the armed struggle for the control of the European steel industry and the resources of southeast Asia is a part of it-a very recent part-and more a consequence than a cause. At the outset a broad dichotomy is conspicuous between French patriotism, felt and expressed as spiritual ideal, and materialist internationalism. This dichotomy underlies all the tension in French society since even earlier than the Dreyfus affair. But immediately we are struck by the feud within the internationalist side; for there developed, strictly within this sphere, the fiercest battle between the monetary international- ism of the forces that, on the whole, controlled the Third Republic. and the class internationalism of the proletarian leaders (notwith- standing that several of them, as they succeed in their careers passed from one side to the other). Jewish influence was strong on both sides of this struggle. German influence, in recent decades. was more effective on the right, Russian on the left; but one has not to look back very far to see those roles reversed, as they may be again. And the picture is complicated by the fact that the nationalist right detested the internationalism of high finance no less heartily than did the Marxism of the left, but used a weapon INDIVIDUALISM that the left could never handle: anti-Semitism was an effective 153 political force in France much earlier than in Germany. On the economic left a secondary struggle was all the while in progress as to tactics; and as the debate between Guesde and Jaurès, and the various splinter groups on each side, went on, rather more than tactics was involved. One could say that the question whether to capture control of the state by political meth- ods or by economic coercion was a tactical issue; but the two sides, in all countries, engendered very different tempers. In France t