can people-in more respects than one. 20. Acton, Lord, History of Freedom, pp. 4, 11, 78, 64-65, 83. VI Sovereignty versus Community 1. Responsibility for the people. - 2. Contract theories. - 3. Nature from Hobbes to Bentham. - 4. Locke and Laski on property. - 5. Adam Smith and the liberal tradition. ยง 1 A LFRED, philosopher and king of the West Saxons in the ninth century, took his responsibilities very seriously; and in his translation of Boethius he inserted some of his re- fections on "the work which I was commanded to perform." He saw it as a kind of craft of which his people were the instruments. He must therefore cherish and provide for them. "This then is their provision: land to inhabit, and gifts, and weapons, and meat, and ale, and clothes, and whatsoever is necessary." He was in- sistent and careful that they should learn to read and have some good books, including their own history and legends; and he thought of the poor as his particular charge, since "the poor have no friend but the king." "For every craft and every power soon becomes old, and is passed over in silence, if it be without wis- dom. ... This is now especially to be said: that I wished to live honourably whilst I lived, and after my life to leave to the men who were after me my memory in good works." 1 The sense of a responsibility that was upward, not downward, a responsibility not to but for the people, never quite faded out of English polity, even after the kings had ceased to acknowledge any earthly mentor; and the alliance of crown and people against privilege was, on the whole, in the Christian era, more than a mat- ter of expediency. Responsibility for the people is a much more onerous burden than responsibility to the people, and no amount of theorizing about a "general will" can turn it into the same thing. 1. Cunningham, William, The Growth of English Industry and Commerce, I, 132-133.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 102 It is an essentially aristocratic principle, indicating the neces