edom: the notion of consent, "What the Greek found wanting," says one of the foremost mod- ern authorities, J. L. Myres, "when he came to know these so- 14. Cook, T. I., History of Political Philosophy, pp. 112-113. THE CLASSICAL FOUNDATIONS 37 cieties of the old East, compacted into their last and maturest su- perstructure, the Persian empire-was all trace of government by consent, all inward sanction of the commandment imposed from without; and it was just this inward sanction for which later He- brew thought was ever searching, and never wholly finding, until it had been Hellenized through and through." 15 The idea of government by consent has become so much a platitude of political thought that both its relative novelty and its difficulty are generally lost sight of. It is obvious enough that liberty can hardly be attributed to the condition of men who are governed without their consent; but exactly what is it that free people are supposed to consent to? Is it the specific collection of laws they are summoned to obey, or is it the general authority of the lawmakers? Push the former alternative too far and you get a manifestly impossible situation; push the latter too far and you may get a Hitler system. The technical and administrative re- sources at the disposal of any modern government, including con- trol of the sources of information and the channels of communica- tion, are so vast that the notion of consent can easily be made meaningless. Mussolini declared twenty years ago that he in- tended to govern with the consent of the majority: "but in order to obtain, to strengthen and to foster that consent I will use all the force at my disposal." Was he entitled to do that? If not, on what specific grounds do we base our emphatic and incorrigible dissent? Greek thought failed to develop a full theory of consent be- cause of the circumstances in which it arose. The Greeks were an invading race; and as usual in such cases, they cherished a strong sense of racial s