d to the Federal Council of Churches, so clear and realistic a statement of the common Christian tradition received so powerful an expression.7 We quote from the message of the Cleveland Conference: The settlement following the war should be inspired by the desire to secure the maximum of collaboration among the peoples of Europe and encourage the economic development of Europe as a whole including Germany. . . . The settlement should make possible the reconciliation of victors and vanquished. . . . The treatment of Germany should be calculated to strengthen the forces within that country committed to 7. The War in the Light of the Christian Faith (25 cents), The Churches and World Order (10 cents), Federal Council of Churches, 297 Fourth Ave., New York, 10, N. Y. 257 liberal civil policies and to international cooperation. . . . Treatment Japan by the United Nations should be favorable to constructive ources within Japanese society, and should aim to bring Japan at an forly date into normal relations with the world community. that is both genuine liberalism and genuine Americanism, be- cause it dares to put its trust in the forward-looking, community- building factors, rather than in the negative policies of repression, punitive action, and the kind of security that rests on force. In the long run, as history very clearly shows, it is the only realistic and practical approach to peace. But what power politics has actually required of the American people is something totally different in spirit, in method, and in effect. The reality was very courageously depicted in one of the leading Christian periodicals: We shall leave behind us after victory nothing of the acclaim for might-errantry which greeted our participation in World War I and remained as a universal reservoir of good feeling. We shall find that our reputation has been transformed by the hideous character of one of our military operations. Upon the armies of the United States there devolved the unhappy res