he truth and falsehood of art itself that we experience, and the truth that compels our observance-literally compels; for once the recognition is achieved it is impossible, short of deliberate perversity, to get away from it. So it is with the pursuit of virtue: authority is as it were mediated through persons, never rests on a mere ipse dixit. So rulers and leaders of men, desiring a stable basis for social order, are impelled to seek the sanction of some- thing that goes beyond the act of will, beyond local considerations of interest or expediency. 2 It seemed reasonable enough, too, that this supreme law in human affairs should call for continuous interpretation. That, as we have seen, was no new idea; and so long as the unity of the Roman world endured, it was natural for even barbarians to seek that center in Roma Aeterna (they were calling it that even in the second century). But with the disintegration of the Roman system a new problem arose. There was in human affairs also- there always had been-some sort of power that said "you must": said it with swords and grappling irons on occasion. Now that power was no longer centered in Rome; it was springing up in strange places, embodying itself in strange leaders, and frequently on the move. Was the supreme law for man to disintegrate like- wise, was that to become local and migratory as the secular power was becoming? Few indeed were even the barbarians who thought so, or wished it so. Thus the secular disintegration strengthened, in both theory and practice, the spiritual supremacy of Rome. 1. Robson, W. A., Civilization and the Growth of Law, p. 220. For a thousand years all Europe sought that sanction in the 2 they will Catholic Church; and in those parts of the world which eventually somly main rejected that authority, appeal was made to one of two-as it was to fun! were, fragmentary-substitutes: either to state establishments ancelone; only that retained a church but dropped the catholicity, or to declara-se