of goods and services. The Western nations have now had very consider- able experience of this system. For thirty years war has been the outstanding economic enterprise of most national communities, dwarfing all other, public and private, on a dollars-and-cents basis; and the present war is remarkable for the high proportion of in-  284 THE LIBERAL TRADITION dustry and trade that is carried on under direct state ownership and direction. By the autumn of 1944 the American Government owned about one fifth of the nation's total manufacturing facili- ties: 90 per cent of aircraft and magnesium, 75 per cent of ship- building, 80 per cent of synthetic rubber, 70 per cent of aluminum 50 per cent of machine tool, and so on. Out of total American ex ports in 1944, 80 per cent were on lend-lease account. War experi- ence has probably not increased the number of people who wish to see state enterprise carried forward on any such scale into peace- time; but its success in war production has encouraged a more optimistic view of state-owned industry than the prospects war- rant. In war production cost is not a controlling factor and demand is practically unlimited. This eliminates at the outset the major prob- lems of economics. Peacetime industry cannot be run that way, no matter who runs it. Unless cost and demand as determined in an open market are allowed to resume their normal function, all decisions as to what and how much to produce become arbitrary. This is the point to which the criticism of Von Mises is so power- fully directed: The ultimate basis of economic calculation is the valuation of all con- sumers' goods on the part of all the people. It is true that these con- sumers are fallible and that their judgment is sometimes misguided. . . . However, the only alternative to the determination of market prices by the choices of all consumers is the determination of values by the judgment of some small groups of men, no less liable to error and frustration than the majori