; and if this also is true, we are certainly forbidden by Nature's law to wrong our neighbour. Now the first assumption is true; therefore the conclusion is likewise true." 3 But was the first assumption true? Perhaps it was in the sort of communities the cultured Cicero would be thinking about; but even then one might ask, Who is my neighbor? There were in his time, as in ours, plenty of communities in which a dual code of ethics persisted: the Germans were not the first to practice that- though many of them were torn in anguish between the persisting sense of human obligation and the order of a brutal government 2. De Legibus, II, 4 (Yonge). 3. De Officiis, III, 5, 6 ( Miller ).  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 44 to do it violence. The American Government has very recently shown that even the status of full native citizenship will not guar- antee equality or humanity of treatment when racial passion is let loose. If universality were to be the criterion of fundamental law, the question of what specifically was universal would be a difficult one for the realist to answer. There was the question of slavery which the Aristotelians could settle only with an ipse dixit. There was the Spartan-and not only Spartan-practice of infanticide. There were the matrimonial customs of certain rulers of Egypt. There was the status of women, as to which Aristotle differed from Plato, who in turn would have differed emphatically from the Roman tradition. If it is to universal custom you are appealing, asked Ulpian, what about copulation? Is that part of the law of nature? In which connection it was not forgotten that most of the animals are less promiscuous than man. Lust, revenge, jealousy, greed are surely just as "natural" as the qualities the philosophers sought to inculcate. In fact, the more you press this appeal to uni- versality as the foundation of law and morals the more difficulties you get into; until it becomes evident that whatever any theorist will pick out of Nature's cornuco