e Farm Security Administration may well be continued. and possibly extended, through many years to come. In this field also a well-planned policy of economic decentralization would be of lasting benefit. ยง 6 A THIRD type of special case concerns those industries which ex- ploit irreplaceable natural resources. This covers not only the minerals, but also those branches of genetic production in which the replenishment period is longer than that covered by ordinary commercial discounting. The maintenance not only of the power and fecundity, but of the beauty of the national heritage, is a car- dinal responsibility of government. To say that the land belongs to the people is not to say that the land belongs to the state; but the concept of the people includes the future generations, and the community, acting through its responsible agencies, is bound to defend their interest from spoliation in the course of ordinary short-run operations. A state that so lavishly burdens them with debt has a moral duty to preserve and enhance for its future citi- zens their natural assets. The field of conservation is therefore the one field in which 293 state action not only may, but on occasion must, override legitimate private enterprise, including the counterassertion of private prop- erty right. An alert and intelligent government will not as a rule need to resort to coercion; but the right is indubitably there for use when needed. In the care and development of natural resources the American Federal Government, well supported by some of the States, has done work of a scope and excellence far greater than is generally realized. Forests and fish hatcheries are less dramatic than bomb- ing planes, and the destruction of a European city excites the adolescents more than the harnessing of a great river. The future will show which was the more fruitful enterprise. On the other hand, the record of the coal industry this past thirty years, in both Britain and America, tells a tragic tale o