nd right side up. That verges on the preposterous, and certainly no one will ever find it in our time. We have to go on working by the clock and the plumb line, and there is nothing fanciful about them. Some- times though it is rather refreshing to dwell on those fantastic no- tions. $ 5 THE quantitative and the qualitative are the focus and asymptote of human enterprise. The quantitative naturally tends toward the finite, toward a finitely perfect system. In social affairs that sort of perfection goes under the name of security, and the sort of rationalism that directs what is called social planning makes light of restrictions on freedom because its goal is so evidently good. There is a queer double strain in nineteenth-century liberalism. The rationalistic, system-making tradition in laissez-faire theory never found common ground with the personalistic and humani- tarian impulse. Indeed the two were sometimes in open conflict -over labor laws and trade-union rights, for example. The former tendency could in fact lead on to regimentation without any breach of basic principle; for if it could be shown that the assump- tions, say of Bastiat's economic harmony machine, no longer held good, then different assumptions could lead to the construction of a modified and improved machine without violating the ration- ECHO OF AN OLD SONG alistic, impersonal type of logic that inspired strict laissez-faire theory. To that sort of theory, in fact, liberty was not the primary end, however much it was invoked; the liberty of laissez faire was 309 really a means to the end of economic progress. It proved, on the whole, an effective means to that particular end under the par- ticular circumstances; but the doctrine was not an adequate ex- pression of liberalism, and its adherents deserted without much difficulty to various types of collectivism when the going got tough. The truer and older liberal tradition held that liberty was the supreme political end-period. Not because it woul