ad two related objectives. First, it sought to clarify the distinction between com- munity and state, and to rescue the former from the latter; sec- ond, it explored and deepened the historical, legal, and psycho- logical bases of corporate life as contributory to the one and at odds with the other. The whole effort was consciously directed against the assertive monism of the secular powers; the outcome of which, in both internal and external situations, could be foreseen long before 1914. The movement developed a strongly Catholic trend.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 188 The Church was the outstanding example of a society that ante. dated all the monistic sovereignties, and had more or less suc cessfully resisted assimilation. Moreover, the failure of Bismarck Kulturkampf had not discouraged the French Republic from starting another that contributed both to the isolation of France and to the revival of interest in the whole subject. The Church offered a philosophical as well as an institutional challenge to the state. It claimed to be a form of association that promised a fulfilment, instead of a frustration, of personality; and it maintained that the principles in virtue of which it did so could be specifically applied in political and economic life. That con- tention appealed to a good many organizations that were resisting on their own account the claim of the state to dominate, control or restrain their activities. An interesting and rather fruitful liaison was thus established between Catholic right and economic left the only one of its kind. It was significant that the pluralist movement went farthest- in theory-in the two newest states of the European imbroglio and was most effectively quashed there. The circumstances of Germany in the Europe of 1919-24 could hardly have been better calculated to ensure a resurgence of nationalism. That after all, was the principle on which Woodrow Wilson had essayed to redraw the rest of the map of Europe; and for a moment it seem