ay Bible readers of northern France. And we are reminded of those Milanese "ragpickers" of yet a hundred years earlier, who stood up to the papal legates and made their case against the worldli- ness of the clergy and the corruption of the Church. Or we think of the homespun evangelism of Toulouse, Périgord, Languedoc, and Provence some of it influenced, no doubt, by alien heresy, but most of it indigenous, with its farmer preachers and its tough antisacerdotal bent. Farther back still we could go: all the way back to those poor men of Galilee and their Master who remon- strated in vain with the ecclesiastics of His day. Or forward to His great disciple, Long Will of Langland, with his incomparable vision of the "fair field full of folk." And thinking of that, we recall the English mystics of the fourteenth century, who add their pe- culiar directness to the more famous work of the time; we catch a glimpse of the little people of London, apprentices and serving- men, tailors and smiths, bakers and wool dealers, secretly reading or hearing the Bible and other forbidden books. We remember the hedgerow preachers and their earnest auditors, we catch the echoes of the Lollard rhymes and the clatter of the mallets nailing up their libels, a hundred years before Luther, even on the doors of St. Paul's and the Abbey, in the name of "we, pore men, tresoreris of Cryst and His apostlis." History knows not how many, through all those centuries, gave up their humble lives for their simple truth. The fact is, we are dealing here not with something sporadic and occasional but with something permanent in the life of so- ciety, something which is there all the time. For while we think of the social order as existing in historical time, changing its pat- tern, as a rule rather slowly, with the passing of the years, we must remember also that new life is flowing into it, and through it, every moment-intellectual and spiritual life as well as bio- logical-in which respect, as Heraclitu