civilization proves under such circumstances Men were able to make a success of their revolt against external authority because, and insofar as, there developed within them an internal authority, a sense of right, that permitted an increas- ing spontaneity in communal existence. This sense of right (Rechtsbewusstsein ) is the living source of all explicit law. It is not a static or finally formulated attribute any more than is the sense of beauty or the sense of courtesy. It embodies tradition, re- sponds to education, and grows in freedom. While it refers to, and in some measure springs from, social experience, it inheres in the minds of living persons as persons, not in groups as such. This fact has always inspired the great exponents of American democ- racy; and it is depressing to hear contemporary politicians, in the name of progress, pouring scorn on this conviction as it appears. for instance, in the speeches and writings of Herbert Hoover. In this book we have argued that the sense of right for its final orientation needs the religious apprehension; but we do not intend to identify it with that, nor to suggest that it is by any means con- fined to "religious people." Such people are prone to read Jesus' statement to the disciples that they were "the salt of the earth" as if he had said that they were the cream of the crop; which is not in the least the meaning. The idea is that of the leaven, not that of the elite. Society needs at all times the existence of people who will stretch their lives forward, as it were, as far as the soul can reach, so as never to lose the light that shineth in darkness. For we must recognize that while the sense of right, on which all freedom in community depends, may widen and deepen without limit, so also, in adverse circumstances, it may wither or be per- verted. Such perversion infecting the minds of a great people is a spectacle even more horrible than war itself. 281 ยง 2 SO LONG as law is the practical expression of a gener