nce against abnormal unemployment have achieved a fair standard of earnings, then our working community divides into three classes: those who can and do make voluntary provision; those who can and do not; and a smaller group for who LIBERALISM IN CRISIS 297 one reason or another cannot. In this view the case for all-round co- ercion would appear to be weaker; and it would also appear prob- able that an all-inclusive scheme would exert a depressing effect upon real wages. Some doubt may also be felt about divorcing economic security from economic function. While no complete occupational stabili- zation is possible or desirable, the sense of responsibility of both firm and industry for the economic status of their own working forces is surely to be encouraged. State responsibility does not necessarily weaken it, but it tends to do so. And in the same way, the employees' interest is increasingly concentrated on the state as the source of benefits. That is in fact one of the principal rea- sons why collectivists and conservatives have usually been more cordial toward state paternalism than have liberals; the "strong state" has not hitherto been a liberal ideal, and a cooperative com- monwealth is not necessarily monistic and state centered. ยง 9 The British Liberal Party has however-not without dissentient voices-decided to go all the way with Sir William Beveridge. A delegate 9 to the 1945 party conference wondered whether Sir William had joined the party or the party had joined Sir William; it will be of great interest to see how far he will take it. In his "second report" 10 the state emerges in full uniform as commander in chief. The liberty of the individual to own means of production and make independent decisions about output and wages, even the liberty of corporations and trade-unions to make such de- cisions, is put in jeopardy: an all-wise state with its "Department of Control" knows better, and dictates all major strategy. Every- thing is planned, and all acti