ve wrought so much, and suffered so much, in common. Only in very recent times was the Western peninsula so deeply riven. It may be that even now, as the walls of the ancient capital lie shattered, its spirit rises above the ashes THE PEACE-BY-FORCE ILLUSION 249 fa material civilization, free of the alien forces of both East and West. EUROPE shall live again. te is historically necessary. Europeans have listened too much to talk of decadence, to theories of the inevitable westward march culture. The progress of the spirit is not a geographical affair. while the technical and financial center has been moving west- ward, the biological center has been moving eastward; and the material potency of the new world may prove less significant for mhrope than the amazing fecundity of the Slavs. With Europe in pieces, the world pattern will make no sense. The reintegration of urope is the key to the whole puzzle, and talk of a world order is stile until that necessity is complied with. It follows that national policies should be shaped with this cardinal aim in view, and modi- Pod where necessary in order to promote it, or at the least, not to obstruct it. Surely, statesmen who would refuse to cooperate in the unification of Europe, from which so much material as well immaterial benefit to all would come, are hardly likely to co- operate sincerely in the construction of a still wider community.4 And any outside forces that fan the flames of political and ideologi- ogl hatred inside Europe perform a disservice so serious that dras- tic measures might be justified in order to give Europe a fair chance. ยง 2 It MUST not be casually taken for granted that there exists any- where as yet, on any considerable scale, a positive will to peace. War, even today, has much about it that is very attractive, espe- cially to those who take no active part. It heightens the emotions, oratifies the gregarious instinct, offers a primitive outlet to im- pulses of genuine idealism. It furnishes an i