ry collective end, be it national or imperial, be it cult or crusade, liber- alism puts the question, Just what does this mean in the actual lives of these actual people? In what ways is the general good aimed at redeemable in the current coin of concrete experience? And here liberalism may claim discipleship of that great lover, not of man- kind in the abstract, but of men and women and children in their concrete imperfection; whose every precept and example vindi- Bed these cates the apostolic statement of His mission: I am come that they imperfection might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. are not to ! perpetuate ยง 4 Why not ? and if not IN OUR extremely voluble civilization, with its extraordinary num- ber of people who make a living by gossiping, orating, lecturing, or writing about politics, there is a disposition to overrate the pos- sibilities of political action: to assume that when once the right political formula (domestic or international) is discovered and applied, most of the difficulties of mankind will disappear. Aris- totelian, as distinct from Platonic, thought supplies a corrective; for it sets out, not to create a perfect society of happy individuals by collective prescription, but to define the political conditions within which personal freedom and happiness are attainable: a very different matter. At the outset, the Greeks simplified their problem by deciding that the goal held good only for a certain sec- tion of their society. A good many people in the modern world are disposed to accept that limitation. We have only just (and perhaps only in theory ) abandoned it in the case of women; and in many regions of Africa and America white people still endorse along what are they to  For: 34 THE LIBERAL TRADITION Aristotle's dictum that "some are slaves by nature." But within the limits generally accepted in the ancient world, the Greeks succeeded in laying down for all time certain political conditions of freedom: two in parti