und and perhaps dangerous situation that might result. Lord McGowan, chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries, which together with other foreign concerns has been brought to suit by the American Department of Justice, maintains that "unrestricted competition is no longer a method which generally commends it- celf: the alternative road is by cooperation and agreement." 19 He is willing, as are most of his compatriots, ernets, to accept a considerable degree of public supervision of international business agreements; either by compulsory registration, or by the appointment of gov- 19. See Benton, W. B., "Business in Britain," Life, October 25, 1943.  274 THE LIBERAL TRADITION ernment directors to the boards of the controlling enterprises. Their general point of view is thus expressed by a British exponent: "It is arguable that commercial competition is the starting-point of international political competition which has so far only been re- solved by war. National industrial combination leads inevitably to international industrial combination, which may be a thread on which to crystallize international political combination." 20 The National Foreign Trade Council of the United States through its board of directors, has recently endorsed the legaliza- tion and registration of agreements; though with stringent reserva- tions as to secrecy that embody the prospecting spirit of the American frontier.21 A considerable element of British opinion. in agreement with leading German businessmen of 1939, looks forward to a coordinated organization of the whole field of world supply in basic materials by means of international product com- mittees, which might even exert some influence toward a super- national allocation of production itself. This is the general aim of the World Trade Alliance Association sponsored by Sir Edgar Jones and other British industrialists. International business organizations accepting such an aim would of course have to accept public responsibility bil