tion of Manufacturers takes a decidedly unfavorable view of intergovernmental loans as trade-promoting agencies. In a re- port made public on February 7, 1945, the Association says: There are few instances, except in attempting to prevent war or when conducting war, that loans to governments are appropriate, as in most instances governments contract loans for political rather than economic purposes, or else employ loan funds for economic purposes in an in- efficient manner. The principle that governments are not, as a rule, desirable borrow- ing entities, applies to central governments and also to political sub- divisions. Loans by governments to governments are ordinarily made for purposes of high state policy and should be considered as costs of war prevention or else as costs of actual war. Governments are not primarily economic enterprises. They do not feel compelled to balance Income against expenditure. Their record in the faithful observance of contractual obligations is not favorable. Under these circumstances, voluntary international agreements for the sharing of export business may be less undesirable than a return to all-out state-aided competition in the few remaining open markets. The position of the present administration is not strength- ened by the fact that it is now (February, 1945) paying a four- cent subsidy on cotton exports, and being undersold at that. No sane person would wish to see foreign trade revived on a dumping basis, and most countries will not permit it. The British Govern- ment is planning a national campaign to stimulate the export busi- ness on which, according to its advisers, British prosperity will continue to depend; but British industry, while willing to fight if fighting is to be the order of the day, is apprehensive of the unsound and perhaps dangerous situation that might result. Lord McGowan, chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries, which together with other foreign concerns has been brought to suit by the American Depar