evance, the danger is still there. So what? The one thing we can- not do is turn our backs on it. If we accept it and wrestle with it, such a triumph is possible as only cranks and visionaries dreamed 3. See Beck, J. M., The Constitution, Appendix IV. ECHO OF AN OLD SONG of two centuries ago. Macaulay saw the danger, he could not dream the triumph; but the dream is life, the terror is the Boyg. How tranquil and secure seems the old home across the retro- spect of forty years! There was a true sanctity, with something eternal in its set of values. Yes, but we could not live in it now; and indeed, if we remember, we were eager to get away. Now it is gone, and can never be rebuilt. A new home must reformulate the values that were enduring. We toil in tears, for we actually knew and experienced the goodness of the past. Can anything so good ever be again? The call is for courage: "kräftig sich zeigen." It was night in the wilderness when Jacob met the wrestler who would not give his name; and Jacob went forth limping. But he saw the dawn on Peniel. How much better a place was the Europe of forty years ago than any Europe since that old Europe where one could travel without a passport, without being stripped, searched and insulted every hundred miles or so, where the cult of hate was only a cloud no bigger than a small newspaper, where the eternal values were, not yet wholly forgotten and defiled. How firm and salutary were the sanctities of fatherland and motherland: can anything so good ever be again? Never again the same. If Europe is to live, it will be only through a generation of Frenchmen who will collaborate with a generation of Germans; otherwise Europe will remain a dependency as it is at present. Tertium non datur. It is right to battle for the values of the past. It is necessary, and far more dangerous, to fight for the values of the future: who knows what they are, who knows if there are any? We demand the impos- sible? Very well: history is the autobiograph