y basis. That is their great and lasting contribution to the philosophy of liberalism. It holds good even of Hobbes, whose "social con- tract" hardly comes within the category. His "natural" men agree with one another to surrender their "natural" freedom to an ab- solute ruler for the sake (there is the function ) of security and pro- tection from one another; and having once surrendered it they SOVEREIGNTY VERSUS COMMUNITY 105 may by no means get it back. The reason for this peculiar transac- tion is that Hobbes's natural men are what Wingfield-Stratford calls "murderous anarchs"; and in the war of all against all, desires and passions reign supreme, without sin. "In nature every man has a right to every thing. . . . The notions of right and wrong, justice and injustice, have there no place. Where there is no com- mon power, there is no law; where no law, no injustice. Force and fraud are in war the two cardinal virtues. Justice and injustice are none of the faculties neither of the body nor mind." They, to- gether with other desiderata "as delivered in the word of God, that by right commandeth all things" ( Hobbes could be very sar- donic) are the creations of sovereign power-"dictating peace, for a means of the conservation of men in multitudes." 4 ยง 3 How Hobbes came so to envisage human nature we shall not stop to enquire-though the enquiry would be instructive. But per- haps he was right. Perhaps, as the material and the immaterial works of civilization together go down in ruin, that is what we shall find. Hobbes was no fool. His view was based on no mere misanthropy. And it is important to observe that if liberalism is supposed to revolve on a core of individualism, then it is in Hobbes, not Locke, that we find the theory of individualism first cate- gorically stated. His society consists solely of self-interested in- dividuals-which is precisely why it issues in a tyranny. The logic of that process was to be demonstrated on a colossal scale a hun- dred and f