sometimes it calls for war; but in neither case has it much to do with the hopes and aspirations of those who long for broader brotherhood. International community lies on a different plane from international politics; and those who seek the road to it must carry not a gun, but a cross. and and who have earned the caves with has ! travel on theall wood ? no to my Browledge Bowl perhaps, by de varios violences to historial feel w.a. Orton can In this historical analysis chal my Browball of stored from dubains sources.  XIII The Peace-by-Force Illusion 1. The static tendency. - 2. Total war and total peace. - 3. The functional basis of community. - 4. Interna- tional big business. -- 5. State versus cartel. - 6. The foreign-trade outlook. - 7. The role of competition. ยง 1 N its approach to the problems of world policy, modern ration- alism inevitably puts police ahead of politics. Its idea of law 1 is Austinian rather than social. It substitutes the conception of peace as a state for that of peace as a process. It is static, not dy- namic. It tends toward legalism, ideologies, and formulas; and however logical these may seem from its own standpoint, in ap- plication they are bound to be reactionary and productive of further conflict. It goes to work on the map with a knife and an eraser, and offers two-dimensional solutions to three-dimensional problems so persistently as to make one wonder whether peace is in fact its primary purpose. Elasticity and adaptability, though they are the essence of living process, play so small a part in its schemes that this changing world would be a safer place without such instruments. The Covenant of the League of Nations was an example as startling as it was futile. There we had an elaborate and peremptory machinery set up to preserve a status quo in which occasions for future war were admittedly embodied, yet the sole dynamic outlet was the feeble and abortive Article 19: The Assembly may from time to time advise the reconsideratio