rn it into the same thing. 1. Cunningham, William, The Growth of English Industry and Commerce, I, 132-133.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 102 It is an essentially aristocratic principle, indicating the necessity of aristocracy to all good government, whatever the constitution It demands from those to whom power is entrusted standards of honor and foresight that it would be unreasonable to expect of average men; and the negative safeguards of "a system of checks and balances" are not sufficient to ensure the positive virtues. Says Hilaire Belloc, in his cheerful downright fashion: "All repre- sentative assemblies, if they are not aristocratic, are corrupt. That may be postulated as a general truth in political science. Give power of the purse to a number of random individuals in spired by no special class code of honor, and they will as a matter of course pick the public pocket. . . . Corruption is as universally attached to our non-aristocratic European parliaments as fleas are to dogs. We expect it, and our expectation is not disap- pointed." 2 With due allowance for the subtler forms of corruption. the charge need hardly be confined to Europe. When Englishmen wish to illustrate the failure of a due sense of responsibility, they point to the progress of French absolutism in the eighteenth century; but when one looks below the theory to the facts, it appears that parliamentary absolutism was no ade quate alternative. One remembers, of course, that the mass of the people, like the American colonists, had no votes to sell; but the outstanding fact-so outstanding that it is generally ignored-is that as the century wore on, the mass of the people came to ap- pear more and more as mere suppliants at the bar of the House. with anything done for them mere charity or concession, until in 1814 they are reduced to the status of sheer beggars-even though all they ask is that the laws be enforced. It was not so in Plantagenet or Tudor times, not so under Elizabeth and Burleigh. Libera