order. There alone do we find the pattern of a community of spiritual beings among whom-on its own plane and in its own ethos- there is no higher and lower, no superior and inferior; by which every political society must be informed, to which every such society must continually aspire-or perish. And it is this doctrine. and none other, which sets limits to the presumption of every earthly power, and sees in each individual the embodiment of a purpose that goes beyond all secular objectives. 14. The Idea of a Christian Society, pp. 8-12. THE CHRISTIAN SYNTHESIS Religion, says Christopher Dawson, "was the source of the moral standards and spiritual values which are essential to the 57 liberal tradition, though liberals frequently ignored this and attempted to base them on abstract ideas. But the rational ideas of liberalism were abstracted from a historical religious tradition, and the liberal culture was strongest and most enduring precisely in those societies in which the Christian social and political con- sciousness was most alive." 15 The fact is that modern thought, which in so many directions has been struggling to get away from the logic of the Christian faith, has nonetheless been taking for granted the set of values which that faith, and nothing else, estab- lished; and the modern world has been coasting along in easy assurance that the values will survive the destruction of the sys- tem. The assumption is dangerous. Without the historical religious tradition, what becomes, in a secular analysis, of our customary regard for common people? Why, for instance, should we not set our experts to select the most promising among them, concentrate all our efforts upon that selection, and set the rest to labor in a gen- eral regimentation "for the good of society"? It has been done. Why should we let them continue to mate and proliferate spon- taneously, instead of breeding the biologically fittest and steriliz- ing all the rest? It has been attempted. These, and many