free to shipping and the customs barriers pulled down than foreign affairs fell into the hands of Palmerston; and it is noteworthy that the same mob sentiment that cheered him on raised a ed an unprecedented uproar against the establishment of Roman Catholic bishoprics in Eng- und. In the long duel between popular peer and dogged com- moner, Cobden scored one great success in the commercial treaty that dissolved the danger of war with France. If ever a man could claim to have achieved "peace with honor" it was Cobden in 1859 rather than Disraeli in 1878; for he pulled that pact out of the very teeth of Mars. But it is significant that he had to do it by extraconstitutional means, and at his own expense. After the achievements of Palmerston and Disraeli, the role of free trade in the policy of peace was circumscribed by the fact that an ever- growing area of the world was not open to free settlement or free  226 THE LIBERAL TRADITION investment. Britons may well be proud of the establishment, dur ing the next half century, of the liberal empire; but it was not entirely the fault of foreigners that the liberalism was confined to the empire. Nonetheless, the long adherence of both parties in Britain to the principle of free trade cannot be dismissed as a manifestation of mere self-interest. True enough, the preeminence of British shipping, insurance, and finance had been largely the outcome of that policy: the liberals of the mid-century had frankly, and rightly emphasized its practical advantages to the western island. But Gladstone had made a tremendous moral impact on national policy which was not confined to his party or his generation; and the con nection of free trade with international peace was deeply bedded in it. It was that factor, quite as much as the influence of em- the City, that defeated the power politics of Joseph Chamberlain and kept Britain, almost alone, on the trail of a forlorn hope. The effort made by Britain and the Scandinavian states at Genev