ed on the lilies of France. But did they suppose they could make the tradition of Catholic Christendom itself an instrument of their ambition, or their discontent, or even their ardent patriotism? Apparently they did, since it became at last necessary to put the Action on the In- dex in 1926. Both Leo XIII and Pius XI were better Frenchmen than they were. What was left them but a sterile militarism? They were too intelligent, thousands of them, not to see that if the fate of their country were to depend on the issue of mere brute force, cannon fodder, and weight of material, then the dice were so heavily loaded against France that the game would be worth playing no longer. Peace, then, by other means-and a chance to keep on hoping, keep on striving? That would be a very long shot but France was older than the Third Republic, or the German Empire. Or war: and for whose sake? That of a regime they had so long abused that they had convinced themselves it was hopeless? As the movement began in confusion, so it ended. Lacking clarity of purpose, some small part of it was subverted by the very power it had arisen to defy. But by far the greater part, still bitter and perplexed, limned in its blood the outline of the France it had never succeeded in defining. That task remains. . Ironically enough, a similar dilemma was hovering over the very antipodes of the political landscape. There too eager spirits were disputing the muddy course of the Third Republic, planning a cleaner France in a nobler world; and there too the dilemma bore down hardest on the keenest minds. The position of Jaurès, great Frenchman and fine scholar as he was, contained an inner weak- ness that is common to all schools of reformist international so- cialism. Perhaps his assassination on the very eve of the first World War was a merciful release for Jaurès. It spared him the agony of mind he must have undergone in the next ten years; nor  156 THE LIBERAL TRADITION was he likely to have accepted such c