itative obses- sion of the post-Reformation era. It arises also from the atrophy of the historical sense in secular idealism. This is conspicuous in the American approach to Europe. One would not, of course, for a moment suggest that Americans are not abundantly informed. On the contrary, they are so abundantly informed that the ideal of American education is almost that of a talking encyclopaedia. Such knowledge, however, is of facts and events as set forth in books and documents (Woodrow Wilson was a conspicuous ex- ample) wherein certain selected results of a continuous process are more or less dried out and displayed, but in which the process itself can never be contained, nor its essential nature depicted. West of the Vistula and the middle Danube, Europe is, at a very profound level, a spiritual being, writhing in the grip of a tragic destiny that is simply inaccessible to the American mind, and only slightly less so to the British. It may be that peace is no part of that destiny, but only death: a certain reve everence in any case is indicated. It is surely significant that while Europe has con- tributed so much to the culture of America, America has con- tributed so little to the culture of Europe. Not that it has nothing to contribute; what it has to offer is radically inassimilable. It is no less significant that between Europeans in other parts of the world -again, at a profound level-there exists a curious empathy, into which non-Europeans cannot enter. They will fight their European battles over again on foreign soil, all the more keenly when they are soliciting American support for rival causes; but the rivalry rarely goes so deep as to dispel a tacit community of feeling- manifest in the unspoken assumptions of ordinary conversation- between people who have wrought so much, and suffered so much, in common. Only in very recent times was the Western peninsula so deeply riven. It may be that even now, as the walls of the ancient capital lie shattered, it