ical terms." He quotes with evident disap- proval the following statement by an executive of General Motors: "An international business operating throughout the world should conduct its operations in strictly business terms, without regard to the political beliefs of its management, or the political beliefs of the country in which it is operating." 13 3- 13 It is Mr. Berge's conten- tion, and that of the Department of Justice for which he must be presumed to speak, that national political aims are ipso facto su- perior to business policy and must override it whenever and wher- ever there is a possibility of divergence. From this point of view the policy of the German cartels, so far as it was keyed into German political action, was all right, and the policy of independent busi- ness enterprise was all wrong. We have here an example of the monistic tendency of the national state, and its inherent antagonism to active international ity of a kind that it cannot dominate. The conviction that the state -that is, for practical purposes, the particular collection of people wielding coercive power for a limited time in a particular admin- istration-is necessarily and supremely right, gives its officers an amazing assurance both as to what they do and how they do it. We have spoken already of the magnification of the executive at the expense of the legislature in other spheres: here now is Justice, Its officers formulate a policy as to the interpretation and applica- tion of a fifty-year-old law which is in effect, as Mr. Berge em- phasizes, a "political question . . . of national concern" and is. in certain of its aspects, highly debatable: is, in fact, under very serious debate by responsible authorities both at home and abroad They implement that policy by ransacking the files of scores of corporations and amassing such information as they can get from leading foreign corporations also, such as the Imperial Chemical Industries of Great Britain. From this material they mak