ans have produced two of the most notorious rebels in history: Luther against the Church, and Nietzsche against the Lutherans. And who can forget how the French critics trounced those formless German romanticists-some of whom hailed from Berlin! That there are, in a very broad sense, racial and even national differences of temperament no one would deny; though it is prac- tically impossible in Europe to distinguish the two kinds. The former spring from slight biological variations, the latter from cultural causes that are often so recent as to be, in a historical sense, ephemeral. But to interpret the actual course of events in the light of either is simply to surrender to the popular preference for myth rather than history. So far as innate differences go, there is more variation between a Welshman, an Englishman, a Russian, and a Chinese than between the average Englishman and the average German; if the former are spontaneously united in the cause of freedom while their opponents are hell-bent for destruction, it is 4. Sayce, A. H., Reminiscences, pp. 475-476.  For: 26 THE LIBERAL TRADITION surely not due to any intrinsic qualities of their makeup. Few things are queerer in modern journalism than to find Jewish writers de- nouncing a racial theory of history on one page and endorsing a racial basis of peacemaking on the next. When Acton spoke of the impersonal forces in history that have "grouped and propelled associations of men" he did not mean biological forces, nor did he mean merely Englishmen. President Neilson of Smith, asked what he understood by liberal education, once answered, "It is that process which makes it profitable for an educated American to converse with an educated Chinese." There is such a process, and Neilson was one of its great exponents. It rests on our proven faith in the power of active intelligence to create human com- munity out of the most diverse material-without, be it well noted, destroying the diversity. We must therefore be skep