en of 1789 is that they sacrificed the actual human values of their cause to the tyranny of an abstract idea. While Burke and Acton agree in their understanding of the nature of political action, the specific principles that inspired them were poles apart. It is precisely in such contrasts that the force of their fundamental agreement is revealed. The defense of lib- erty by the spokesman of the Whig oligarchy has its supplement in the analysis of authority by the great liberal who was also a peer of the realm and a Roman Catholic. From the argument of policy between parties of opposing political principle ultimate truth emerges, clear and acceptable to all men. Every element in what we may properly call civilization has been at one time the cause of a single group or party. Equality before the law, the supremacy of law over the executive, the abolition of slavery, the responsibility of government for the condition of the poor, the right of every child to fair opportunity, freedom of speech, re- ligious toleration-all these have passed or are passing (one hopes ) from the testing stage of partisan debate into the common heritage of civilization; and fresh aspirations ever advance new 8. Ibid., p. 101.  12 THE LIBERAL TRADITION issues in that continuous process through which intelligence ardu- ously asserts its sovereign function. Professor George Sabine, in his History of Political Theory-a fine work too little known to the reading public-aptly describes Burke as "the founder of self-conscious political conservatism." Burke's particular emphasis is on stability and continuity, on rev- erence for tradition and established institutions, including the re- ligious establishment, on a rather hieratic view of the state as re- sponsible to and for something more permanent than the popular will. While he was willing to credit ""the species" with a sound moral instinct for the long run, Burke's distrust of what he under- stood by democracy was much more than horror at the vi