t, became identified in the popular mind with the economic op- pression it had been forced to tolerate; while the oppressors them- selves-the gilds and corporations-went bankrupt under the in- cessant exactions of the royal exchequer. The crown perhaps might have been saved by Turgot's drastic purge of 1776; but after that was rejected, the monarchy itself was doomed along with its ill-chosen allies. There had been signs for half a century of what was coming: censorship, riots, raids, imprisonments, suppressions. The sayings of Rousseau, of Voltaire, could no more be suppressed than the ideas of the Economistes or the wave of popular resentment on which they were riding. Diderot's Encyclopaedia was promptly- and ineffectually-proscribed on appearance; it contained, among other things, a frontal attack on the gilds and corporations by Villeneuve, and a statement of the case against Colbertism by Tur- got himself: "Les hommes sont-ils puissamment intéressés au bien que vous voulez leur procurer, laissez-les faire: voilà le grand, l'unique principe." 3 For two decades he battled for his principle in that honest, unsubtle, tenacious way of his, with infinite loy- alty to France and to his sovereign: knowing that if it were Turgot who must bite the dust this time, it might well be the crown itself rolling there the next. Beaten in 1776, loyal still in disgrace, he dares to write to his king: "They say you are weak, sire, and there have been times when I feared so myself; but I have seen you show true courage in more difficult circumstances than this. You 3. Article on "Fondations," 1757. See Turgot, A. R. J., Oeuvres, Vol. I ( Schelle).  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 142 have said yourself that you lack experience . . . Never forget sire, that it was weakness cost Charles the First his head." 4 Such was the man who, with a monarch behind him, might at the eleventh hour have averted the revolution! Turgot's case against the monopolies, like his case against state regulation, rest