ic ownership and control of busi- ness in general. In the first place, it is unwise to concentrate eco- nomic and political power in the same hands; they are too closely mixed up already. If it desired to saddle business or labor with a more direct public responsibility, there must be an independent agency for them to be responsible to. Second, it is important to dispel the popular notion that the state or the government has somewhere a secret store of supermen with a superior knowledge of how business ought to be run. The only people who know how to run the world's business are those who are running it now, and there is a chronic scarcity of them. Third, government is just as likely to make mistakes in both method and motive as is voluntary LIBERALISM IN CRISIS enterprise. The mistakes of government are on the whole far more costly, more easily covered up, and less promptly liquidated, whereas those of private business are limited in effect and auto- matically penalized. Fourth, government in business almost in- 287 ovitably tends to act as its own banker. It pleads a popular man- date against independent standards of financial soundness, and uses public credit to underwrite risks that private credit would not canction. This is not necessarily a service to the public. The Brit- ich Liberal Party, for this and other reasons, opposes the transfer of the Bank of England and the Joint Stock banks to the state.2 Sir Richard Acland, in his prospectus for the Common Wealth Party,3 has the government "planning" all production from the top, allocating orders to the various factories, fixing prices, not only fixing but actually paying wages and salaries on a predeter- mined basis; yet he expects to preserve freedom of consumption and free choice of occupation. It cannot be done. It may perhaps be possible to run production under a fully powered "economic general staff" as an army is run; but the army will not run-or will do nothing but run -- if each soldier is free to decid