stern hemisphere" 9 which mark an important, and probably permanent, change in American policy. With the latter we are not here concerned; but the effect of the former was to encourage the conception of the war as a crusade for certain ideal ends; as many members of Con- gress maintained, and many good citizens believed, "we are fight- ing this war for the Atlantic Charter." This in turn fostered a species of interventionism of which neutral states in Latin America were to receive the full impact. Whether or not such states, though 4. Speech of October 12, 1940. 5. Ibid. 6. Speech of September 1, 1941; see also speech of December 15, 1941. 7. Inaugural Speech, July 19, 1940. 8. Speech of December 9, 1941. 9. Speech of October 12, 1940 and statement of April 29, 1941. RETREAT FROM LIBERALISM officially neutral, were to receive the benefits of classification as freace loving, or whether they were to have the entire battery 231 propaganda, black list, boycott, and blockade let loose on them, Jepended on whether their governments and policies conformed to the aims and policies of the United States; the justification being that in a war of absolutes neutrality as such was entitled to no re- onect. By contrast, it is interesting to observe that the American proposals to Japan of November 26, 1941, laid down "the princi- dle of noninterference in the internal affairs of other countries. The theory of what might be called absolute interventionism has been set forth in an important essay by Professor Karl Loewen- chein. 10 The situation to which Mr. Loewenstein's proposals have reference may be interpreted as follows: The common notion of the functions of a resuscitated League of Nations or comparable body is that it would deal with "aggression" in the manner of a police force or a fire brigade. Aggression is thought of as an overt rt, or series of acts ( the constant use of the term "aggressor" Las fixed that notion ) and the general idea is that the League or council would