s, it is inevitable that those societies come into conflict with one another. Even on a material plane, the attempt to argue that all would be better off under an agreement to com- promise is frustrated by the brute fact-well known in foreign of- fices, but never publicized-that the contention is false. The average of welfare might be higher; but the most powerful states may be materially better off as the result of a victorious conflict than they would be as partners in a peaceful compromise: and they know it. Many individuals in those states may be willing, nonetheless, to say that international community is worth the sacrifice of gains achieved at the present price; but that is what states as such can never say, because they are are not organized and supported for any such altruistic purpose. A state that appropriates the greater part of the national income, and a year or two of the life of every male citizen, to keep itself powerful, is not going to sacrifice or forego any material advantage it may hold or acquire; and it would be overthrown if it did. Externally regarded, the ter- ritorial state is nothing whatever but a physical-force machine, Maintained to guard and promote the material interests of those 239 who put up the money. It is neither equipped nor intended to promote the interests of outsiders, and their welfare is necessarily Pridental and secondary to the purposes for which it is held ac- countable to its constituents. An assemblage of states will no more produce a universal moral order than a lot of lobsters thrown into a pound will produce a republic of lobsters. This is not because states or lobsters are "bad," but because their nature falls short of personality. To talk of states as if they were persons, endowed with the spiritual impulses and aspirations of human beings, and therefore morally accountable, is a piece of pure abstraction for which not even Hegel can be held responsible. It is a habit of modern journalism, catering to that mixtu