mission to make the Holy Roman Empire a going concern, fell foul not only of the am- bitions of theoretically lesser magnates but of the interests of the papacy itself. In the rough-and-tumble of the early centuries the Popes had succeeded, by admirable skill and energy, in winning the homage of Normans and Lombards and other turbulent ar rivistes; some of it they got as feudal overlords-feudalism being then the customary mode of human association. Thus the papacy found itself-not altogether by accident, nor altogether with re- gret-possessed of a very considerable stake in temporal affairs. just as the United States, in its disinterested endeavor to bring the four freedoms to every part of the world, finds itself possessed of an ever-widening chain of naval and air bases. There were peo- ple, then as now, who wished that the connection between the transcendental end and the temporal means could be a little more obvious. It is really striking to find, at the time of the tremendous victory of the papacy over the obstreperous Henry IV, writers Catholic writers-who accused the Supreme Pontiff, the great Gregory himself, of bringing more strife into the world! With what unspeakable relief did the Church at last, on February 11, 1929 "viewing things from the standpoint of the blessed St. Francis" bid good-by to all claims of temporal dominion, renounce all offers of secular guarantees, and thus attain, after a thousand years of travail, the final liberation! 11 We may so far disagree with that eminent historian, Mr. H. C Wells, as to suggest that in the meantime its involvement in tem- poral affairs was, from the standpoint of the Church's mission, a necessity-subject as such to the ultimate destiny and interim tribulations of all such affairs. The manner of dealing with the nascent impulse toward Church reform, and the primitive piety that lay behind it, was inextricably involved therein. The Roman patarini of the twelfth century, for instance-who were probably heretica