"good" life and the "good" society that became less and less serviceable as they became more and more complete. The freedom to which Pericles and the poets looked back was essentially a simple and immediate thing, the very air of the golden age; but by the time the phi- losophers had finished taking it to pieces no human power could put it together again. It does not detract from the merit of the analytic school to suggest that the opposition to it was also not without reason: though not the sort of reason that could be de- fined by the analytic method. The root of the trouble was, and is, that actual life and its aims as experienced can never be brought completely within the scope of a rational definition. The Socratic position that happiness is virtue, that virtue is knowledge, and that knowledge commands assent, did in fact leave something out; and that something, as Aristotle noted, was the breath of life. ? ? ? So today academic philosophers, expounding the didactic legacy of Greece, render their exclusive homage to Apollo and Pallas Athene, leaving Dionysus and Aphrodite to the poets; but these are jealous gods, not always to be appeased with verses. It is far harder \ to impart the joy of life than the rules of living. The average lay- man, hearing the name of Hellas, thinks vaguely or vividly of theaters and temples, processions and festivals, painting and sculp- ture, wrestling and dancing, of lovely boys and girls under a Medi- terranean sky; but so much a dream it is, the contrast with his own drab destiny escapes him. Yet as certain modern philosophers have insisted-Nietzsche, Spengler, Sorokin in particular-that Greek culture, like the high mediaeval culture, was all one. The banquet of Callias was no mere figure of speech: the Syracusan and his flute girl, Critobulus and the mimes, were as much a part of it as the wine and the wisdom. What the modern young are offered is little more than the bones of the feast. Perhaps that is all that can survive in t