ims of the subjects were so strictly defined and so stoutly defended. Nor did the establishment of the political kingship do away with the traditional mutuality. "The king did not lose his representative character; but the coronation oath on the one side, the undertak- ing to be faithful on the other, made up the terms of a contract in which the fidelity of the subject was the consideration for a promise of good government by the king." 3 Absolute sovereignty, under whatever form, is and has always been foreign in both fact and idea to the Anglo-Saxon tradition. The rights and liberties of Englishmen rest on something far older and stronger than the theories of the "glorious revolution." The theories were not at all new in substance; their prominence came from the newness of the occasion. Poor James II, who could do nothing right, who could not even manage to run away with- out assistance, had left a situation that only a short cut could solve. An ad hoc "convention," into whose authority it was best not to enquire, declared that he had abdicated, using the selfsame plea that the American colonists were to use against George III: he had "broken the original contract between King and People." That was not the first time anybody had heard of it, but it was the first time it had been put to such use-in England (the Dutch had invoked the idea against Philip II a hundred years earlier). But, as Gneist points out, what distinguished the English affair was not merely that the convention conferred the crown, but that William was required to sign the Bill of Rights before he got it. 3. Anson, W. R., Law and Custom of the Constitution, II, 9.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 104 It was in that turning away, so to speak, from the historical to the argumentative that the revolution, so far as it was one, really consisted. ยง 2 THE full force of the contract idea was first let loose not by the Protestants but by the Jesuits, in their case against divine-right monarchy. Bellarmine, Mariana,