very culture has its roots in the soil. that is true only of the roots; and the soil does not provide the seed. The difference between regionalism and fragmentation con- sists in the sense of a larger whole of which the particular field is felt to be a part. And where there is no catholicity of values, the amount of meaning any school of opinion may possess is neces- sarily limited in both breadth and depth; under all lies a common aridity. Then why are Is this the Thalia church and Christian there's ? o what ? . $ 2 NONETHELESS, that European synthesis did disintegrate. Is the verb too strong? Not merely does its memory live in many minds; THE BREAKDOWN OF UNIVERSALITY 63 the spiritual community on which it rested is not totally extinct. Most Christian people still acknowledge its postulates so far as they are aware of them; but even among the Christians, that sense is driven back into the fastnesses of the mind, whence it has little effect on the plane of action. And while other schemes of synthesis have so far catastrophically broken down-if indeed there was anything to break- it cannot be said that the old synthesis was dissolved in something larger: the fact, and the consequences, of disintegration are all too patent. By many people who have not thought very deeply about the matter, the rise of modern liberalism is supposed to be intimately related to this disintegration, either as cause or consequence, or both. In particular, the role of Protestantism is often stressed in this connection; and since personal attitudes and value judg- ments are involved, a closer look at the transition is necessary. To begin with, it was a much more gradual process than most histories make out; so gradual, in fact, that the more one studies it the more one feels one is studying not a particular event, nor even a particular movement, but an aspect of historical change itself. That is perhaps why it is tolerant of so many interpretations. Among these, two main types are of especia