ked disposition to minimize the differences that result from state expenditure on goods that do not enter into the standard of living-the requirements of military and imperialist strategy-and those that do. "Adequate total outlay" is the main thing. But in order to calculate and control the amount of both cur- rent and investment expenditure that the state will need to make, it is necessary that the state assume complete supervision and direction of the amount that voluntary enterprise may contem- plate. "Full employment at the rising standards of life made pos- sible by technical progress means that the outlay is wisely di- sected." Obviously it is the state, not the consumers or the volun- Hary risk bearers, that possesses this wisdom. "The State cannot escape ultimate responsibility for the general direction of outlay by reference to social priorities, however much it may be guided in its direction by the preferences expressed by citizens, in buying as well as in voting. The State cannot undertake the responsibility for full employment without full powers" (par. 264). Those pow- ers have to be specific as well as inclusive. They comprise there- fore not only power over the location of industry, but a veto power over projects advanced by private enterprise. They also comprise price control of "all goods or services which enter heavily into the cost of living of the average citizen." Liberal economists will note with particular interest that "the need for a control of prices . is also great with regard to all essential goods which are tem- porarily in scarce supply" (par. 292). That is the measure of re- liance now placed on the operations of a free market; but since the state is to have control of all capital outlay, it is what one must expect. Consumers and voluntary risk bearers now come last, not first. Sir William argues with considerable force not only that con- sumers do not always spend wisely, but that they do not have the chance to spend wisely. "In a fre