mple of this Ad- mirable Crichton. (Curious what a resemblance he seems to bear to those who write about him! The gospels strike a different atti tude. ) 3 Whatever the past has wrought in the way of beauty. philosophy or wisdom must by hypothesis be inferior to what man is now doing-or is assuredly going to do when he gets round to it. If history does not obviously look that way, so much the worse for history: let us have a "New History." It involves some surpris- ing value judgments, but they are all necessary consequences of the a priori value judgment about man-about the peculiar kind of man postulated at the outset. And the root of the trouble with that kind of man is that he is not man at all, but only the ghost of that part of man which reflects the material environment: dis- embodied brain. Put him in sole charge of affairs, and he becomes the platonic tyrant; worship him, and he becomes not a god but a monstrosity. It is noteworthy that none of the younger writers and poets who share Wells's positivism also shares his optimism. Without in any way belittling the importance of science, it is possible to hold that its net contribution to the good of humanity, 3. Cf. De Tocqueville's observation, see p. 144 supra. THE POSITIVIST ATTACK especially in the applied field, has been overvalued, and secured 205 esta far higher price than is generally acknowledged. Were the men of Versailles in 1919 intrinsically better or wiser men than she men around Metternich, or the men of the Augustan age and many other ages, merely because the former could ride in aero- Blanes whereas the latter could ride only on horses? Is the Parthe- Pon inferior to Rockefeller Center because it has only one story whereas Rockefeller Center has goodness knows how many? Has the balance of good and evil forces in the world, or in the heart of man, been perceptibly altered by the achievements of "rational knowledge" as such? Or has such knowledge merely endowed the human creature with far more p