sense, and philosophy would be the gainer. In essence determinism is one of those theories which, as Professor Broad said of behaviorism, "are so preposterously silly that only very learned men could have thought of them." But it is worth while to examine the few simple notions that underlie it because, properly understood, they help to define the true nature of human freedom. There are five species of orthodox academic determinism: the 0 economic, the cultural, the biological, the psychological, and the moral. Of the first, Nicolai Bukharin was the leading, and, for some years, the official spokesman. Since his death in the Russian "purge" of 1938, and the subsequent disavowal of Marxist doc- trine by the Soviet Government, American communists have had to adapt their utterances to strategic rather than dialectic con- siderations. They are not the only Americans who have found the transition from dreams to actualities somewhat bewildering. It must be remembered however that some sort of determinism is the logical outcome of materialism. The element of Spencer's system  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 210 that can obviously be fitted into a materialist view of society is the notion of internecine struggle; and the false biological analogy is therefore still of service in providing an excuse for the class war and a rationalization of subhuman ethical practices. The deter minism of Marx had a strongly Hegelian and idealistic bias, and was in essence more humane than its modern derivatives. The theoretical basis of these latter is to be sought not so much in old. style economic determinism as in the four other species we have listed; and the influence of those species is by no means confined to the organized groups of avowed communists. $ 5 CULTURAL determinism is directly descended from the "law of nature" of the natural philosophers. Nature had been kept pretty busy by those elegant gentlemen; and the temper of the coal age was rather trying for an eighteenth-century beauty. Wh