ERAL TRADITION . . . a genuine structural entity . . . the vehicle of the ego-ideal, by which the ego measures itself, towards which it strives, and whose de mands for ever-increasing perfection it is always striving to fulfill. The super-ego is the representative of all moral restrictions, the advo. cate of the impulse toward perfection, in short it is as much as we have been able to apprehend psychologically of what people call the "higher" things in human life.10 But if we ask from what source the superego derives its "impulse toward perfection" the answer is not very satisfactory. The deriva- tion of the "lower" impulses was quite plausibly traced back to our animal heritage-to the deep and powerful roots by which our nature is grounded in the material world. In seeking a derivation for the "higher" impulses the system, owing to its original bias could look only in the same atavistic direction. Thus Freud tells us that "no doubt the ego-ideal is a precipitation of the old idea of the parents." One of his ablest exponents is more explicit. The Super-ego is the composite of identifications with the authoritative and prohibitive attitudes of other personalities, especially the pro- hibitors of what the child would like to do. . . . The resulting blends of identifications determine those standards of caste, of religion, of race, of culture, which are so decisive in the social configuration of the adult. Still later, identifications with personified ideals, those of art and philosophy, for example, add their components to the final character. . . . [But] not only are the basic elements of the Super-ego the "precipi- tate" of identifications with parents, but the unconscious guilt and "fear of conscience" are shown to be similarly derived from the actual original fear of the power and the punishments of these grown-ups If the child disobeys he is punished; if the adult disobeys he experiences conscious remorse or neurotic suffering.11 Voilà tout! That is the whole wor