is not possible to ignore the fact that the in- fluence of those policies extended far beyond the great events and the critical years, out into the seminaries, the bi ne bishoprics, the schools and parishes; so that even today, in thousands of out-of- the-way places, the altars of the Church resemble rather the armed outposts of a great empire than the skiffs and dories of the fisher of men. A sacramental religion, in virtue of its inherent power. can the more easily become to untutored minds a vehicle of super- stition; and though the truth it conveys be all-sufficing, that does not dispense with the need for a teaching apostolate. No human failing, we know, can quench the light that shineth in darkness but not all the darkness is outside the walls, and many a little sacristy contains a good extinguisher. Thus, a generation or so ago, at both extremes of expression, the integrative effect of the religious tradition was being frus- trated. And it was just at that time that the full-scale assault on religion got under way. That assault was organized and led by able men who knew what they were doing and why they were doing it. They had fashioned a new faith-or at least, had mus- REINTEGRATION bored new materials to reshape an old one-in whose service they 199 displayed a missionary ardor as sincere as that of their opponents. The name of that faith was positivism. Its avowed enemy was christian religion. It appeared at first as an ally of liberalism. But it was to prove a most potent factor in reducing political liberalism its recent state of bewilderment and ineffectiveness. For the core of liberalism is free integrated personality; the expression of that is its goal and program. Positivists say precisely the same thing; but the integrative formula they offer is radically different from that which lay at the heart of European culture. So much the worse, they reply, for European culture; and the rejoinder cannot be casually dismissed. Thus the contest involves the sou