relinquished all spiritual authority while retaining all power of appointment, what became of the old principle of the superiority of the spiritual allegiance? History knows the answer, but Hooker did not. The whole question of the relation between temporal and spiritual authority was reopened; and it has not since been settled. The continuous warfare of the secular states, with its fearful crescendo of mental, moral, and physical destruc- tion, compels all thoughtful persons to wonder what are the limits, if any, on the exercise of temporal power; to what principles, if any, it should be subject; and how those principles are to be known. "Nought shall make us rue. If England to itself do rest but true," sang Shakespeare's Harry: a noble and popular sentiment-but was "itself" all that England was now required to be true to? Hooker answered in effect that it was. Church and state were not two separate societies, they were two aspects of one and the same; and the sameness, when one got right down to it, was not that of  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 80 THE SECULAR STATE Catholic truth but that of Englishmen-an idea that Mr. Middle- ton Murry has recently revived.1 ยง 2 THE Church in England-the Anglican Church, as we may now call it-inherited a field that was largely fallow; but it also in- herited a rich tradition of native piety. While the sixteenth-century settlement was getting under way, it was perhaps a good rule that everyone should be required to attend service. Most people went quite willingly. They liked singing the psalms in English rhyme-it was a very musical age: many of the psalters had the four-voice parts, and there would often be a few strings and wood winds in the back gallery. Nor were they as impatient of homilies and sermons as are modern newspaper readers. What Cranmer had done for English prose in that service was to be equaled only by the genius of the English Bible, in which Shakespeare himself may have taken a hand. As the difficult years passed into