master in his own house. Of course there were some very pretty perquisites. 12. Figgis, J. N., Divine Right of Kings, p. 84. THE BREAKDOWN OF UNIVERSALITY To Cranmer and other German-trained ecclesiastics fell the 75 task of refashioning the religion of England to fit the occasion; but however truly and earnestly they labored, and to whatever heights of spirituality their work might lead, certain peculiarities lay in the very nature of the task. They found themselves, at the outset, compelled to go farther than ever Luther would have gone; for Luther remained enough of a Catholic to see that the idea of a national church involves a contradiction in terms. They sought to keep the faith, but they could not keep the catholicity. Even so detached a critic as Niebuhr recognizes that "the Catholic version of the Christian faith is at least a bulwark against the idolatry of political and national absolutisms." 13 The Reformation writers, arguing against Rome and the Counter Reformation, were com- pelled to elevate earthly authority to a position from which there is no appeal; and leaders of the nation-states could now ignore the principle-for which Rome, at its best and worst, had stood -that a man may not be judge in his own cause: not even though he have a crown on his head or a ballot box to sit on, and all the science in the world for his scepter. The point has been made by Hilaire Belloc in a passage that deserves quoting in extenso; for when Belloc with his battleax hits a nail on the head, he drives it home. He is speaking of the coronation of Edward VI, by Cran- mer, on February 20, 1547: For the first time men had heard in England-loudly proclaimed-and in the seat of the English Kings, in Westminster Abbey-that strange new doctrine which was to be of such prodigious effect throughout the world, the Divine Right of Kings: the new Protestant doctrine, fruitful of many things. The doctrine fully born that day (it had been maturing ever since the beginning of the grea