d wrong, ond carries out that control of our mutual relations which the preservation of freedom demands. The liberal tradition has always sought to hold this control to a minimum; and until very recently men in English-speaking lands have rather prided themselves on the fact that they could maintain a tolerably harmonious society under increasingly complex conditions without greatly extending or tightening this sort of control. Surely that was something to be proud of? It was no merely negative achievement; it arose from long experience of purposeful endeavor and deserved the name of progress if anything did. Before it is finally abandoned, it is rea- doing, and why they are doing it. conable to ask that people consider very seriously what they are We respect the state, not because it is big and powerful, not because it can coerce, but because it embodies a purpose that we respect in ourselves. It stands for order and fairness; it is charged with the maintenance of the conditions of freedom; it makes ef- fective that will to community which is bred into the vast majority of us. We respect the rules because we respect in ourselves the purpose they are intended to serve; so when and where coercion has to be exercised, we support it and submit to it. If some of us  280 LIBERALISM IN CRISIS THE LIBERAL TRADITION get involved in an irreconcilable dispute, we "go to law," and ac- cept the decision of the judge. Even if we are dissatisfied with the verdict, we endorse the intent of the procedure, we generally comply. In the same way, a very few policemen can usually "keen order" because it is really the community that keeps itself in or- der. When a community splits into factions, the ne police may be very quickly overpowered; anyone who has seen that happen knows how fragile civilization proves under such circumstances Men were able to make a success of their revolt against external authority because, and insofar as, there developed within them an internal authority, a se