eldom does liberal thought attain an immediate result in policy; indeed its nature is such that it not only must work, but aims to work, through the general intelligence. It was the signal merit of Voltaire that he understood this so clearly: more clearly by far than Milton. The Platonic and Calvinistic streak in Milton held him back. Every student knows the famous challenge of Areopagitica: "Let truth and falsehood grapple; who ever knew truth put to the worse, in a free and open encounter?" But Milton was young when he wrote that; he was not so sure by 1660. The current of English life had passed him by, and left him bitter. Yet his own college, in times even more desperate than his, has recently demonstrated in the person of its Master the vitality of the tree he planted.10 As usual, however, it was in France rather than in England that the ultimate logic of tolerance was worked out. Tolerance came so easy, on the whole, to the English eighteenth century that the legatees have much too casually taken it for granted. In France that was not possible. Persecution, both ultramontane and Jansenist, continued through most of the period, and the attack on Christianity developed a cutting edge that even Gibbon shrank from. English thought more easily avoided extremes because there were so few extremes left to avoid. English deism disposed of the more troublesome aspects of the faith by arguing that after all Christianity was nothing but reason and common sense, that revelation and the supernatural were either incomprehensible or superfluous, or both; and as prosperity increased, few people cared very much. But in France things were different, and keen spirits 10. The present Master of Christ's College, elected in 1939, is the Reverend C. E. Raven, one of the outstanding exponents of the Christian opposition to war. His election, of course, does not commit the Fellows to his political position, but furnishes a suggestive contrast to the attitude of most American colleges.