t men be made to face the fact, and the consequences of their own wrongdoing before they deal with that of other peo- ple; and the Church is the only organization that tries to make roots of him line the respon - ibility is con - them. iously + mls- Twenty-four years ago, in his first book (a history ) the writer polly on his penned at least one sentence that has stood the test of time: " won shoulders, tions may choose, if they will, the method of trial and error; the trial is apt to be long, and the error is punished." No one w but knows his Bible will attribute any originality to that; but who frightful truth of it lies on a plane that we persistently refuse to recognize. Yet if deterministic dogma is abandoned; if human freedom of choice, and therefore human responsibi sibility, are ac- knowledged; if it is held that there are absolute, not merely rela- tive, standards, of what is proper to man; if the concepts of free- dom, personality, and deity have any meaning: then we are forced to face the possibility-yes, and the actuality-of sin on a sus- tained and colossal scale, such as the prophets of Israel so coura- geously discerned and denounced. The stress of an armed struggle breeds forgetfulness, and victory breeds complacency; but no matter how total the victory, if any lasting good is to come of it man must set out in penitence and humility, remembering the long record of selfish folly and willful blindness, and the abroga- tion of all human decency to which it led. 6 any student psychoanalyse well known. The Retreat from Liberalism 1. Two liberal principles. - 2. Both are abandoned. - 3. Theory of intervention. - 4. Intervention in practice. - 5. Ethics versus politics. - 6. The world policeman's beat. ยง1 B RITISH liberalism, in its international application, rested on two fundamental principles: Nonintervention in the in- -ternal affairs of other nations, and freedom of trade. These principles were explicitly recognized by liberal statesmen as com- plement