engenders among the half educated. Its factual components lie in the three following processes: (1) the social separation of those who depend on the difference between selling price and cost from those who work for a stipulated rate of return; (2) the identifica- tion of national welfare with the prosperity of the former; (3) the increase in the numbers of the latter for whom the cash income is all the living there is. In this chapter we shall consider the first two factors, leaving the third for treatment later on. The loss of any sense of identity between those who depend on a margin between selling price and cost, and those who work for a wage, is even today not nearly so universal as radical theorists pretend, or desire. Not only in small businesses and professions. independent shops and service trades, but in many corporate en- terprises, especially in Britain, the sense of community survives It is being deliberately destroyed by "leaders" who write and talk as if there were something inherently wicked about a workman who feels or professes loyalty or obligation to the concern that provides his income. Such leaders would have short lives in Russia: but one of their principal weapons is the popular fallacy to which Marx lent some color, that the distinction between the two types of return can be eliminated. This is simply impossible. The weather and the microbes, to say nothing of the vagaries of taste, inventive- ness, and greed, make uncertainty as certain as anything can be. And while it may be to some extent offset by the accumulation of reserves, some group must always bear the brunt of it, and the masses will always have to bear some of it. Moreover, when a high premium is put on economic advance and technical innova- tion, the degree of uncertainty, and therefore the function of risk bearing, necessarily gain in importance. Nonetheless, a strong element in proletarian mythology is the belief that it is possible for employees to retain the relative stabili