lly reserved for God's own country- as and appreciation still abounds in clubs and places where they sing Beneath the Constitution's shade, A boon and shield of priceless worth, We stand erect and unafraid, Unmatched in all the teeming earth. Recognition of the fact has not been confined to the native born Thus William McDougall, the psychologist of the occult, observed in 1915: "It may well seem to us that there was a land reserved by God for one great purpose, and a people developed and guided by Him to occupy that land in order that they might realise that purpose . . . to lead mankind onward and upward toward the realisation on earth of the City of God." 6 And another psycholo- gist, Hugo Münsterberg, commented with hardly the hint of a smile: "There is something jubilant and something final in Ameri- can patriotism, and every outsider must feel what a tremendous power for the good of the country is generated by such triumphant confidence. . . . Can it be denied that all the modern discussions 6. McDougall, W., The Indestructible Union, p. 105. VALLEY OF DRY BONES on peace and disarmament, on arbitration treaties and the causes 175 of righteous wars, get a good deal of their steam from the con- Adent belief that it is the duty and mission of America to be the preceptor of Europe in the department of higher morality?"1 Unfortunately there are those who fail, or even willfully de- line, to recognize this duty and this mission; and the number includes not merely individuals but nations and the representatives of nations. The English have been notoriously obtuse in this matter. The claims this peculiar people has advanced on its own account would of course hardly merit consideration but for the fact that w has proceeded, with sublime effrontery, to act upon them. Says one of their early chronicle plays: Lust dwells in France, in Italy and Spain From the poor peasant to the Prince's train, In Germany and Holland, Riot serves, And he that most can drink, most he deser