re strictly ideological forces at work either tended to confirm that result, or proved too weak to avert it. Protestant re ligion, in becoming individualistic, also became highly subjective. Apart from its ethical bearing, religious apprehension became an affair of mood, sentiment, emotion, romanticism: religiosity rather than religion. In such circumstances it was easy for people to for- get that while the ontological assertions of religion are necessarily matters of faith, the reality it deals with is matter of fact. And the laws of that reality operate just as surely as the laws of physics. whether or not we choose to take note of them. In thus withdrawing, or being forced back, behind the closed door of personal privacy, popular Protestantism more and more lost touch with what had been the central integrative factor of European culture; almost instinctively therefore it clung all the closer to its Bible. Ever since the puritan revolution there had been a strong tendency, harking back to old Jewish practices, to treat the Bible as a magical book surrounded with all sorts of tabus. Even today many people, when they hear or speak of the Chris- tian revelation, believe more or less consciously that the phrase refers to the authorized version of the Bible as printed and pub- lished in London by order of King James I in the year 1611; and knowing neither the French, German, Latin, Greek, nor any other version, they are unaware of the peculiarity of their position. They suppose too that the familiar order of the books was the order of composition, and never regard, for example, the obvious varia- REINTEGRATION 197 Hons between the gospel narratives as constituting a literary or historical problem. An objective approach to the text therefore strikes them as impious. This objective approach, in modern times, aroused the first chock about chronology. The work of the historians-many of shem quite orthodox-in extending our knowledge of the pre- Roman world made it evident t