stics that make them human individuals. The felicifi calculus that was expressed in Bentham's "greatest happiness of the greatest number" is the world's prize example of the arith metic fallacy. Under a mask of specious objectivity, it offers formula that can have no significant relevance to the nature of society. And so far as the idea of simple enumeration has gov- erned the theory of democracy, it has done more than any other factor to render that theory abortive and dangerous. It is interesting to notice that even Rousseau was in some de- gree aware of the danger. What he meant by the "general will" he never succeeded in making clear, even to himself; but "there is often a great deal of difference between the will of all and the general will." 3 At one moment he speaks of the general will as a 3. Rousseau, J. J., Social Contract, II, iii. REINTEGRATION mere aggregation of individual wills conceived as all alike ex- cept for the plus and minus signs. Next moment he is telling us 183 what the "resolutions of the people" may be wrong, especially when private associations are permitted to exist among them, while the Poneral will is always right. He gives the general will an absolute overeignty from which there is no appeal-not even a right of bellion-because it is supposed to be absolutely moral; but where it gets the intuition of morality is never explained. This is the same than HHlemma that we meet in Hobbes, who never tells us where Levia- Rousseau, went to school. And the source of it is the same in both. 1, like Hobbes, starts his specious logic with the assump- son of a total surrender of personality to the collective existence «the total alienation to the whole community of each associate with all his rights"; 4 it follows that whatever each associate may get out of it will be something less than free personality. In prac- fre, as both Laski and Acton agree, the general will comes down to the rule of a bare majority; and "once we deal with modern problems ou