the power and the punishments of these grown-ups If the child disobeys he is punished; if the adult disobeys he experiences conscious remorse or neurotic suffering.11 Voilà tout! That is the whole works; and it brings us back to the same moral relativism and social determinism that all material- ism necessarily lands in. There is a further and more obvious flaw: as an explanation of the creative impulses that inspire art, poetry, virtue, religion, and all historical achievement, the atavistic theory is totally and ridicu- lously inadequate. It is in fact being everywhere abandoned: sur- 10. Freud, S., New Introductory Lectures on Psycho-Analysis, pp. 92-93. 11. Hendrick, I., Facts and Theories of Psychoanalysis, pp. 163-167. THE POSITIVIST ATTACK ceptitiously in the case of the Freudians, overtly in the more liberal 217 schools. When Freud, in his later years, was more or less com- delled to broaden the individualistic basis of his system, he found Finself forced to reckon with factors he had always avoided tak- mno seriously. His instinctive response was an attack on religion in general, and Christianity in particular, that went far beyond the logic of his own position. Religion, he averred, was nothing but on illusory compensation for the severity of the discipline which social life imposes; but whereas most of his followers show a pa- sonizing tolerance of religion as an opiate for the people (or the patient), not so the master. (It is noteworthy that this part of the exposition is cast by Freud in the form of a dialogue, in which a puzzled enquirer puts the questions, and Freud supplies the answers. "May I ask you to enlighten me?" "With pleasure. I was only waiting for this invitation.") The enlightenment provided by the master consists in the proposition that religion is "the universal obsessional neurosis of humanity. It, like the child's, originated in the Oedipus complex, the relation to the father. This historical residue has given us the conception of rel