racy. But the transition from such cases of common rights to the modern con- ception of collective ownership is illegitimate; as are all such efforts to read modern notions of ownership or other institutional prac- tices into the historic past. The essence of ownership is to keep the neighbors out; the essence of community is to let the neigh- bors in; it is never wise to confuse the two. Another supposed precedent lurking in the background of prole- tarian mythology is the unitary ownership of all the resources of a people vested in the state, or whatever corresponded to it. About the only discoverable cases are feudal-and there is indeed more than a hint about certain forms of socialism of a return to the feudal mentality. William the Norman asserted sole lordship over the land of England, and saw to it with particular care that all tenants-in-chief held directly of him. That was his way of making the connection between land and authority an instrument of com- pletely centralized control; it is not comparable to the assertion by the United States Government of title to undeveloped land, and the subsequent gift of large slices to the railroad corporations.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 122 In all such appeals to the past there is the familiar element of utopian romanticism. It is both safer and more honest to recog- nize that such notions as collective ownership and economic egalitarianism, whatever their merits or feasibility, pertain to the future; there is then a better chance of looking objectively at the record and distinguishing what has worked well from what has worked badly or been superseded. Within living memory, in parts of New England, farmers carted their grain at harvesttime to the mill, and left a few sacks with the miller as return for the grinding. That type of transaction is of immemorial antiquity; and if the miller turned out to be a usurer it meant not that there was something wrong with "the system" but that there was something wrong with the miller.