merican states; but the truth of it is not limited to the Chaco. Few things were intrinsically funnier, in recent months, than the abortive effort to organize planetary aviation by means of a congeries of jealous territorial units. Even the notion of the sov- ereign equality of states put in an appearance, as the delegates sought to project the earth-bound limits of their national con- stituencies into the stratosphere. What was most pathetic, and most alarming, was the lack of any realism bold enough to affirm that the entire basis of the approach was anachronistic in regard to the technical problem.5 But it is not only in regard to aviation that the territorial nation-state has revealed its inadequacy. In ocean transport also the overriding national interests have for decades perpetuated an incredible amount of wastage, duplica- tion, and confusion; in radio a semblance of order has been achieved and preserved only with the utmost difficulty; and in the entire field of applied science the provincialism of existing insti- mations cries out for a bolder and broader conception of copyright, patent law, and scientific interchange. The modern tendency however has been all the other way. Nineteenth-century wars were kept within bounds by the tradi- tion, well recognized in international law, that civilian property and business were outside the sphere of combat. Civilian assets were not exposed to arbitrary distraint or permanent seizure, and apart from such territorial and financial stipulations as one state might impose on another, the economic and cultural life of the belligerents was generally allowed to continue pretty much as it had been. Twentieth-century practice has changed all that. Dur- ing both World Wars limitless lists of contraband coupled with unilateral declarations of maritime law put every sort of com- merce in jeopardy, and made waste paper of all precedents. The close of the first war was marked by a determined and successful efort to impair the econ