ed; and the nineteenth century cannot escape the fatal verdict, mene, mene, tekel, upharsin. The heterogeneity of its achievement makes the period an in- VALLEY OF DRY BONES 161 exhaustible mine for historians, from which some have brought up valuable treasure, and in which others have completely lost themselves. Not to court their fate in this brief essay, let us first define what it is that we are seeking. We seek to show, a little more fully than we have yet done, the nature of the connection be- ween the idea of liberty with which the century opened and the Armageddon on which it closed. For the battle of the nations that now ravages almost the entire globe was of no sudden or sporadic origin. Steadily increasing in scope and intensity, it has been going on with diminishing intervals for over ninety years; and it is not something extrinsic to the course of culture and civil society-that idea is on the face of it preposterous-it springs from something inherent in the type of development historians have witnessed and studied so minutely. For each separate outbreak a specific cause, or occasion, can be assigned; and in a short view, blame can be distributed-very widely distributed-for the failure of each suc- cessive "peace." But for the process as a whole, its intensification and acceleration in an era of great intellectual and cultural achieve- ment, no such anecdotal history will suffice. Factors more pro- found than the conscious aims and interests of rival groups or leaders have obviously been at work: factors of the order Acton had in mind when he spoke of the ruling ideas, or perhaps Paul when he wrote of powers and principalities. Wisely did the legend make the Pied Piper a magician; for there is indeed something nonhuman about the ease with which masses of toiling people who have never seen their alleged enemy are led time after time to mutual destruction-and always for reasons that seem, at the time, to be adequate, even compelling. Does this compulsion r