of the Roman magistrates confronted with this seem- ingly perverse defiance. A formal courtesy, just a pinch of in- cense on the altar to divus Augustus-why make such a fuss about that? One is reminded of the refusal of a contemporary sect of Bible worshipers to salute the American flag: it is noteworthy that in both cases children stood firm under social and legal per- secution; and in neither case did the refusal necessarily imply civil disobedience or even disrespect. The Christians were expressly taught not only to obey, but to honor, the powers that be; and the emperor cult could hardly in reason be regarded as just another piece of idolatry. The emperor had always been head of the state church; the barbarian recruits in particular came to see in him the very personification of order and majesty in the world; grateful subjects and cities often addressed him as "savior" and "redeemer" the deification of living rulers was familiar to the whole East; and 13. Hebert, op. cit., p. 55. THE CHRISTIAN SYNTHESIS 55 when the empire officially adopted the style it was in the interest of cultural as well as political unity-no unworthy aim. Probably the influence of the Christians was in some measure what would now be called subversive; but they certainly did not aspire to set up a rival authority. No: what they so quietly and so indomitably asserted was something far more fundamental: namely, the princi- ple of limitation on all secular jurisdiction, the claim to reserve in- violate from its mandate the inner life of the individual. Between that claim and the pretensions of even the noblest secular abso- lutism there neither could nor can be any lasting compromise. This involves much more than the conventional modern claim to "freedom of conscience," which in common parlance may not mean very much. For whatever constraint may lie upon a man's actions, his conscience cannot be anything but free so far as hu- man agency is concerned (the contrary argument is deterministic an