nd cotton, and someone must buy Japanese textiles. Will India, or South and West Africa, or the United States? If inter- 15. Berge, op. cit., p. 247. 16. Press release from London, April 4, 1945. THE PEACE-BY-FORCE ILLUSION 271 national community is the aim it must start from reality; and one of the realities of the twentieth century has been the increasing effort of the Western industrial nations to keep Japanese goods out of their domestic and colonial markets. Well-meaning per- sons have lectured the Japanese on the low level of Japanese real wages (forty years ago the Germans were similarly admonished); but to raise that level without an expanding foreign trade is utterly impossible, and to im impose penalties on Japanese goods merely makes the Japanese work harder at still lower remuneration. The vicious circle is tightened by two elements in the pro- spective world situation. First, it is very possible that there are factors tending permanently to diminish the total of world trade, which may never again reach the volume of the late 1920's. Among these must be reckoned the strongly autarchical tendencies mani- fest in such important areas as the United States, Russia, India, Great Britain, and the Dominions; the effect of synthetics in re- ducing the interdependence of genetic and industrial countries; the artificially stimulated industrialization of the former; the dead weight of frozen international debt; the extremely precarious nature of international means of payment; the consequent hesi- tancy of private investors to resume the large-scale export of capi- 1. the instability of tariff and trade regulations; and the general lack of any long-run sense of economic security. The contracting influences may be to some extent offset by the closer integration of such regions as Western Europe, Latin America, and North America; but the probability is that if Germany and Japan are loft merely to fight their way back into a shrinking world market, the struggle will b