from the "law of nature" of the natural philosophers. Nature had been kept pretty busy by those elegant gentlemen; and the temper of the coal age was rather trying for an eighteenth-century beauty. When Shelle died, nature was undoubtedly a little tired; by the time Darwin had finished with her, she was definitely not what she used to be It became necessary, at last, to find some other patron saint- at least, some other patronymic-for the determinism of the in- -or dustrial era. "Culture" saved the day: a daughter of nature who had been to college, and acquired some of the sophistication her mother so obviously lacked when she took up with Rousseau. Culture-to quote a standard definition-is "that complex whole which includes knowledge, belief, art, morals, law, custom, and any other capabilities and habits acquired by man as a mem- ber of society." 6 Ît ( if such a conglomeration can have a pronoun comprises practically the whole "social heritage"; and this "social heritage" is represented as controlling and determining the be- havior of the individuals from whose mutual relations culture arises. The circular argument involved here is innocently set forth by a well-known American sociologist: "Culture is not inborn but acquired by every individual in social groups; but this culture of the group dominates the behavior of the individual and so the behavior of human groups. Human social life is thus dominated by culture; and culture is a matter of habits of thought and action ac- quired by interaction with other members of one's group." 7 6. Tylor, quoted by Ogburn, W. F., Social Change, p. 4. 7. Ellwood, C. A., The Psychology of Human Society, pp. 10-11. But this is in no way circular of The ways of continuity of generations is included. THE POSITIVIST ATTACK This is an example of the characteristic fallacy of "social sci- once" and is worth noting on that account. Such descriptive gen- 211 eralizations as the one above, and the abstract concepts of which they are com