come tyrannical. The individualism of revolutionary theory, despite its optimistic as- sumptions, enacted into law the fallacies of Hobbes; and what re- sulted was Leviathan. But there were two things Leviathan could not digest, in spite of Hobbes's prescription: the Church and its antithesis, Marxist materialism; for each of these involved an absolutism that was certain to conflict, sooner or later, with the monistic type of sov- ereignty the revolution had sponsored. Of the two, the Church was likely to provide the acuter bellyache; for there was always a chance that dialectical materialism, working from within, might transform the motivation of the state while preserving, and even enhancing, its monistic character. This was because the type of rationalism the eighteenth century let loose, and the revolution embodied, always speaks for practical purposes the lingua franca of materialism. The most idealistic of rationalists, devoted to humanism and toleration, will readily avow that transcendental ends and concepts are things about which men differ. There may or may not be something in them: in the absence of any way of settling the matter, it is best to let each man decide for himself. So community on that basis can play at best but a minor role in social affairs. But everyone will agree on the desirability of good food and good wine, and plenty of it; that becomes therefore the explicit goal of collective existence. Couple this reasoning with a theory of sovereignty that knows no inherent limits on the scope 17. Martin-St. Léon, loc. cit.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 148 of state action, and you have the spurious and pitiless democracy of economic egalitarianism in place of the true democracy of Christian humanism. You see also the process that has landed many excellent people in the camp of the extreme left, wondering how they got there and where they are going, yet seeing nowhere else to go. The Church fought this reasoning all through the nineteenth century. Religio