racial and national exclusiveness. That was the bitterest struggle, for the past was rich and strong. Then came liberation from the "bondage" of the old moralistic law, which Paul compares to a censorious school- master under whom we were "shut up," whom we have now out- grown; he contrasts it with the freedom that is "in Christ"-not only in an esoteric but in a quite practical sense. Even as their mas- ter had scandalized the formalists of his day, so Christians are to cease their concern about diet and circumcision and outward observances. Popular asceticism is expressly and officially de- nounced; even on the question of sex, with which the disintegrat- ing Hellenic world, like our own, was so obsessed, Paul is far more tolerant than the puritans of either his time or ours. Certain sins, censured by all the best pagan teaching, he too condemns; but for the rest he is not anxious to lay down rules. Writing to the Greeks of Corinth (where sex was big business) he is remarkably tenta- tive: "I have no commandment of the Lord . . . I give my judge- ment . . . I think I have the spirit of God." The puritan heresies would have found no sterner critic than Paul, unless perhaps it  50 THE LIBERAL TRADITION were Peter-whom Calvin would never have recognized as one of the elect. ยง 4 IT WAS an essential part of the liberation that Christians were for- bidden to think of, or treat, the world of nature as evil-as some of the Oriental cults were doing, and have continued to do. God looked upon the world that he had made and saw that it was good- and so did the Son of God, who shrank from nothing. "For every creature of God is good, and nothing to be refused, if it be received with thanksgiving; for it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer." Thus from the beginning the sacramental principle is the golden key to all creation: in particular, to the bodily life of mar Again in contrast to the Orient, Christians may neither despise nor abuse the body. Only the ignorance of mo