irations of human beings, and therefore morally accountable, is a piece of pure abstraction for which not even Hegel can be held responsible. It is a habit of modern journalism, catering to that mixture of vulgar passion and dominant materialism which renders unto Caesar the things that are God's because Caesar can be bribed. To treat states as if they were, or could be, moral agents, was a policy tried for centuries. Everywhere the attempt led to disap- pointment and disaster. Nations in which personal liberty was safest grew up under systems established by men-like the Whigs of the English Revolution and the American founding fathers- who had no illusions about the nature of mass action, and took particular pains to keep the state in its place. The glorification of the state by French doctrinaires and German idealists produced a situation in which both the liberty of the subject and the safety of outsiders were perpetually imperiled. The state cannot attain a higher plane of action than that of the people who run it; and as the sphere of its domestic operations becomes wider, while its pur- noses become almost exclusively economic, it tends to strike a lower and lower average. Those who dream of universal peace arising from the interactions of a congeries of states are likely to be awakened by the nightmare of universal war. ยง 6 NO FALLACY has done as much to sidetrack American idealism as the notion of a "world police force." As every citizen knows when he is sober (and sometimes discovers when he is drunk ) the police- man is merely the symbol and agent of community. He can be effective as a policeman only because there is general agreement  240 THE LIBERAL TRADITION in the community as to what the rules of conduct shall be, so that infractions are universally recognized as exceptional, nal, and rarely occur. The function of the policeman presupposes the community: he does not create the community. If no community exists the policeman is no longer a policeman bu