, men are not all of one speech. 4. Quoted in Burnet, John, Early Greek Philosophy, chap. iii. 5. Laws, iii, 689 (Jowett).  46 THE CHRISTIAN SYNTHESIS THE LIBERAL TRADITION Whom then do you believe to have been the makers of these laws? For my part I think that the gods must have made these laws for men.6 Why the gods and not the demons? Because it is well understood that the gods are concerned with order and harmony, and that these are the things which, as rational creatures, we too supremely value. Professor Barker, in his masterly introduction to Gierke's work on natural law, distinguishes three phases of the Aristotelian con- ception of nature as applied to human affairs. It is something pri- mordial or immanent in the constitution of man; it is a potentiality, developing with human cooperation; it is the "true nature of man» in the sense of final goal or purpose. Now it is apparent that when the idea of natural law is made the basis of political or ethical teaching, we are dealing mainly with this third aspect; and it is no less evident that the apprehension of "true nature" in this sense is rather a religious than a dialectical achievement. That is clearly the case, for example, in Antigone's famous appeal to the "un- written and unfailing statutes of the gods," and in the choric hymn in Oedipus Tyrannos: "May I never break the sanctity of the un- written laws. Heavenborn, they live and move on high and are not made by man, nor shall they ever sleep or be forgotten. In them is a divine power which grows not old." 7 This essentially religious apprehension of "true" nature, in the sense of divine end or purpose, is evident in Plato and the neo- Platonic schools. It steadily deepened with the growing complexity of human affairs until it became the basis of the Stoic system. "To the Stoics," says Barker, "Nature was synonymous with Reason and Reason was synonymous with God. They believed that the true city or polity of mankind was a single 'city of God' or cos- mo