a relativism based on practical expediency, it will always have-as it always has had-rough going in France. Liber- als themselves very easily forget that it is only to political or- ganization that liberalism denies the sphere of absolutes; it is 2. Ward, W., Problems and Persons, pp. 362-363.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 140 because of its supreme respect for personal ends that liberalism keeps the state at a distance. That is a hard lesson for a French- man; for while he loves liberty he loves the state too; and it is always difficult to keep two loves under the same roof. The paradox became conspicuous in the theory of individualism The French wrote an individualist doctrine into both the constitu- tional and the criminal law of the revolution, and kept it there for the greater part of the nineteenth century. The doctrine was false. and, in the end, it killed the revolution. The search for an abso- lute in secular terms encounters the difficulty that there may be more than one such absolute; and between absolutes in conflict who shall define a common ground? The Third Republic found that problem insoluble, as its end bore witness; and once again Frenchmen resorted to violence for the solution of a problem which, in the very nature of the case, violence can never solve. It is worth while to look a little closely at the rise, and the effects. of French individualism; for American thought in this sphere has been influenced more by French ideas than by British, shows the same type of political reaction, and is now visibly heading the state for the same kind of débâcle. § 3 THE Black Death evoked in France measures similar to those of England. John the Good-who is credited with debasing the cur- rency eighty-one times in five years-not only tried to regulate prices and wages (1351) but asserted freedom of occupation by abolishing (on parchment) the gild limitations on apprenticeship. The device, however, was even less successful than its English counterpart; and the followi