question, however, how far that in terest can be intelligently pursued with the postulates, and the techniques, inherited from Doctor Freud; and it is certain that the equipment for the cure of souls must include in future a wider training than he envisaged: notably, and emphatically, a training in philosophy. Enknow theology ยง 8 MORAL determinism is so obvious an outcome of the foregoing that it scarcely needs illustration. It leads inevitably to that moral relativism which is almost a hallmark of positivist sociology. Ideal absolutes are barred: they cannot be empirically established. What people want is what their circumstances make them want, and in the circumstances it is right-so far as there is any right-for them to want it. Different groups want different things, and there- fore formulate different value systems. Each group thinks and does what it must, and that is all there is to it. If the other group can be persuaded, or "conditioned," to want the same things, and there- fore formulate the same ideals, as we do, there may be peace; if not, since each system is right for each group, we shall find our- selves in conflict, and superior force will solve the ethical problem This goes right down to the plane of individual behavior. Here also positivism achieves a grand simplification. Conscience itself is socially determined: a thesis which tallies with, and is to some extent indebted to, that of Doctor Freud. "The mores," says Pro- fessor Kimball Young, "consist of the codes of social conduct which grow up in any community or society. The mores ar nes are the generally accepted and expected forms of conduct which are assumed to be necessary for group welfare." They frequently acquire there- fore a religious sanction; and Dr. Young is inclined to be tolerant of this trimming, since it gives a man "surcease from worry and considerable faith in himself. . . . In contrast therefore to the common sense material world we find a world based on fantasy and wishful thi