eo- types passing for ideas, what Pareto would call "derivations" pass- ing for realistic policies, and outbreaks of mass action that turn all the contriving instincts of the human animal to his bloody and hideous destruction. Such results are often attributed to the spread of false ideas, to fallacious economic or political theories, or to the influence of evil- minded demagogues and dictators. But as Professor Sorokin has demonstrated, the power of such persons or ideas is a consequence of the condition of the masses; 7 and the ill in that condition con- sists primarily in the frustration it imposes on the normal life impulses of normal people. This is now almost a commonplace of modern psychiatry. Psychiatrists, starting from the problems of the individual mind, are being compelled to recognize that in in- numerable cases the psychological cost of civilization has become unbearably high; with the result that an ever-increasing number of people, in the expressive phrase of the street, "go broke." adam Smith ? The will to live, the capacity to enjoy living, the strength to live well, are not the results of dialectic; they spring from the deepest biological roots, and rise with the active exercise of native impulse. It is an odd and wholly unintended effect of analytic psychology that the primary impulses should be generally regarded with abhorrence. Of no organism are the primary impulses such as to defeat its own existence. Growth obviously involves integration, and integration a principle of order and harmony: strange indeed that people who see that principle so successfully at work in plants and animals should fail to find any trace of it in human nature-and so failing, should conceive of human development solely in restrictive terms, as a process of repression, denial, and constraint. Granting that the demands made by his situation on the human being are of a complexity such as no other creature has to meet, the solution of the problem must always aim at preser