edom in economic and political affairs? In the process England left the whole Western world these twin heritages: a vision of material abundance and social welfare, and the noble defenses of human freedom to be found in the utterances of Milton, Locke and Smith. America fulfilled that promise through its own American Revolution. It would be a tragedy if Eng- land, today, turned her back on her own great past.12 12. Louis Hacker in The New York Times Book Review, February 18, 1945. Echo of an Old Song § 1 T HE liberal tradition is a call to adventure: the adventure of growing up, becoming autonomous, living spontaneously. There are times when men do not want to hear it; when they are too tired, too hopeless, too frightened to respond. Then they cry for security, think of the state as mother and father, of the stranger as the enemy, of the universe as indifferent or hostile. The uni- verse is stern; its laws are the instruments of order and harmony; all that makes for discord is doomed. That was Plato's warning.1 Men cannot always discriminate. Even under the best of mental and spiritual disciplines, they fail and blunder; and every error is punished. But the universe is alive: it is on the side of life. Men are required to take their beating, get on their feet again, lift up their heads and resume the adventure: Allen Gewalten Zum Trutz sich erhalten, Nimmer sich beugen, Kräftig sich zeigen, Rufet die Arme Der Götter herbei.2 Surely the poet was speaking to all of us. Goethe's man, like Aristotle's, would make trouble in the Pla- tonic republic. Not that he is a troublemaker, nor that he rejects the ideal of the good life; but he must fashion it for himself, for that is part of the goodness-the "working of the soul in the way of excellence." He asserts the right to learn by experience ( even by bitter experience), not merely by precept. But in so learning and so working, he discovers that it is himself he must be working on. 1. Cf. p. 45, supra. 2. Take fate as a cha