s and trade-unions to make such de- cisions, is put in jeopardy: an all-wise state with its "Department of Control" knows better, and dictates all major strategy. Every- thing is planned, and all activity is gleichgeschaltet (have the in- tellectuals forgotten that word? ). Full employment becomes the permanent aim of an active and expanding policy of state management. Every officer knows how much more difficult it is to keep the men fully occupied in peace than in war, and the policy therefore calls for careful elaboration. Yet the definition of full employment remains curiously vague. It is not clear, for example, whether it includes the provision of jobs 9. Reported by George Murray in Transatlantic Daily Mail, February 14, 1945. 10. Beveridge, W. H., Full Employment in a Free Society (1944).  298 THE LIBERAL TRADITION for that large number of married women and mothers who will always seek work at good money wages in preference to staying at home and having less to spend. The question of hours of work is practically ignored. The older liberalism accepted the view that the primary benefit of increased productivity under mechaniza- tion should be increased leisure; many liberals looked forward to the six-hour day for factory employment-even if it meant some increase in per capita physical cost- and desired increasing facili- ties for spontaneous activity, including access to land. While these ideals are not excluded by the terms of the report, they are certainly not emphasized and the prospect of full employment looks a little grim. Underlying the Beveridge scheme is the patent assumption that a voluntary economy will never again provide full employment, but will fall short of it in such degree and with such frequency that the state must assume permanent control of all major phases of economic activity. This assumption is made more plausible by the rigidity of the employment datum that is postulated. It also gains plausibility by what, to the writer, is a gross und