nto the age of big business, just as, in our time, for every basic industry without exception, the at age of national big business has passed into the age of international big business. As usual, work organization, which is concrete, has outrun talk or- sanization, which is abstract; so all the time popular politicians Have been fighting a negative rearguard action in the name of "progress." International big business, as is now fairly well known, pro- needs on the principle of private planning of certain spheres of operation. It is an odd fact that most of its American opponents owish to endow political authority with a far more inclusive power "f "planning" over a far wider area of economic life; but many of them, in their outlook, are aggressive economic isolationists. The portels, as a rule, allocate foreign markets by agreement between their member groups, so that international competition in export Hade is eliminated. They usually give each member group a monopoly of its domestic and colonial market. Many of them also „locate relative proportions of total exports, or more rarely, total output. Some fix prices; the prices, for example, on electric lamps, are not always high; but they are generally higher than those which would result, in the short run, from competitive price cut- ing. The long-run effects of competitive price cutting would however, in many cases, be much less favorable to the consumer and the wage earner; especially if such price cutting involved the competition of foreign groups whose export business was sub- sidized by their governments or their domestic consumers. International arrangements of the type under discussion are facilitated, in many industries, by the practice of granting monopo- lies on technical innovations. The patent license is ipso facto a grant of monopoly powers. The American patent law grants much looser and wider powers than that of other countries; consequently an American, or pseudo-American, concern licensed by a forei