nd design. Some restriction of local liberties will of course be in- volved, but in return there will be more comfort, more security, and as much liberty as is consistent with the maintenance of the system. Alas, there is no such thing as liberal imperialism, and the limits of fruitful coercion in the international field are even nar- rower than in the domestic. The great community of the United States arose in a defiance of coercion, and grew strong and productive on the principle of voluntary free activity. Its solidarity is not that of men obediently following a pattern but that of men trying to work together at something useful; making mistakes, paying the price, trying again, finding in effort the techniques of mutuality, following the good as each man saw it, learning year by year to see it better, discov- ering by experience how the good of each involves the good of all. That process has no ending; it is the true American message to a stricken and despondent world. There went ashore with the first attacking wave on Normandy a stumpy legged little soldier from New York's East Side, whose one gift (his officer tells us) 5 was that hallmark of compassion, "a beautiful sense of the comic." He struggled along with his com- pany for fourteen days, and "in an exaggerated Yiddish accent kept up a continuous beefing as the battle blazed." At last Morris Litsky collapsed, having "propelled himself into complete exhaus- tion." From a hospital in England he wrote a message on behalf of his dead comrades: 5. The officer was John T. Shea, former sports writer for the Boston Herald- Traveler. This account is taken from an AP dispatch appearing in the Hampshire Gazette of October 12, 1944.  312 Index of Names THE LIBERAL TRADITION "We are not heroes. We are just plain dead Americans. We died prematurely. We can only rest in peace if we can be sure that we haven't died in vain. If our death brings everlasting peace to this our world then it is worth the blood spilled. "You th