or knowledge was not perhaps illogi- cal; but it was to commit oneself to a decidedly minor phase of the human adventure. There were brilliant minds, from Stendhal to Artzibashef, who sought to deny that; who proclaimed that the individual, magnified and empowered beyond the common run was the end and meaning of the whole historical process. Ibsen stating old truth in new terms, exposed the solipsism of that con- tention once and for all. The prestige of the individual mind, justly earned in the fields of mathematics and pure science, infected the entire scale of valuation. False analogies were drawn between the abstract phenomenal world of the scientist and the concrete world of personality and society; and because they were false, the nineteenth-century understanding of collective life fell far below that of earlier and less enlightened periods. On the periphery. atheist and ultramontane internationalisms fought both each other and the national states; but the states held the center of the field becoming more militant and more refractory with each succeeding decade. Into the nationalism of the early century had gone some of the purest passion of the romantics; but Byron, Hugo, Mazzini and even Fichte would have been appalled could uld they have fore- seen what unbridled nationalism was to do to the body of Christen- dom. For every triumph of free intellect and imagination was pro- claiming the inadequacy of the nation-state as a form of human association; yet the century, so brilliant in so many other ways. failed to meet, even to recognize, its most urgent challenge; and the confirmation, and multiplication, of separate nation-states in 1919 made the crowning disaster inevitable. In the light of that disaster all other achievements of modern civilization must be judged; and the nineteenth century cannot escape the fatal verdict, mene, mene, tekel, upharsin. The heterogeneity of its achievement makes the period an in- VALLEY OF DRY BONES 161 exhaustible mine for h