subservient to art." Nash advertised the fact. said he in Pierce Penniless (1592): "Tell them what a glorious thing it is to have Henry V represented on the stage, leading the French king prisoner, and forcing both him and the Dolphin swear fealty." The reader will not need to be reminded of the continuance of this tradition by other writers, such as Shakespeare Henley, Kipling, Punch, etc. Its consequences have been conspicu. ous through many centuries. Innes, for example, observes of the Tudor period that "men quickly learned to look upon themselves as the chosen people of the Lord of Sabaoth who gave them the victory over their enemies, and to whom with entire sincerity thev gave the glory; while they found a satisfying warrant in the scrin tures for spoiling the Egyptians and smiting the Amalekites symbolising specifically the Spaniards and the Irish." 9 Other primitive peoples, the historian will remark, have proceeded on much the same assumption; but none other has succeeded establishing by such methods an empire upon which, if the sun d in never sets, it is doubtless because they are not to be trusted the dark. For a more impartial examination of the question of national merits we naturally turn to that nation of critics, France. And certainly no one (or at any rate, no Frenchman) can fail to be convinced by the unanimity with which the Gallic genius is ac- claimed. Among many who have attempted to define it, few have approached the clarity of Desire Nisard. The accuracy of his work is attested by the fact that it held a premier place among French histories of letters in the last century, running into at least seven- teen editions between 1844 and 1880. The differences, he shows us, almost beggar description "entre l'esprit français et ce qui se Hear the acou manifeste de l'esprit" in other nations. Others have, he admits as this way rallyhow their points and their local patriotisms, like that of the mountain dweller for his mountain; but the love of France i