se, of that pervasive materialism which had I se- duced intelligent people to deny the transcendental nature man and the true bonds of human solidarity. of So much has been written, especially in the past two decades, on this theme that its further development is perhaps unnecessary The consensus of modern thought points to a thesis so radical, and yet so elementary, that scholars have hesitated to give it the emphasis it deserves. It is a thesis in elementary arithmetic. Pro- fessor Whitehead, philosopher of mathematics, remarks that our everyday awareness of life and nature "is disclosed to us as one complex of things. But the seventeenth-century dualism cuts straight across it. The objective world of science was confined to mere spatial material. . . . The subjective world of philosophy annexed the colours, sounds, scents, tastes, touches, bodily feel. ings, as forming the subjective content of the cogitations of the individual minds. .. . But actuality is through and through to- getherness." 1 The supposed objective world-a very abstract world, as Whitehead reminds us-was now to be the scene of many 1. Whitehead, A. N., Science and the Modern World, pp. 209, 251. REINTEGRATION 181 triumphs. Located in a space and a time that were the projection of very simple methods of measurement, it revealed such regularities v were describable by simple counting and computation. There were a lot of them, and some turned out to be very useful in the hands of inventors (others not so useful). So spectacular, indeed, were the results of early quantitative method, that practical peo- de tended more and more to assume-at first tacitly, then ex- Plicitly-that the sort of reality it applied to was all the reality there was: that what could not be measured was not, so to speak, really "real," but had a subjective, fugitive, romantic, illusory quality that you could take seriously or not just as you pleased: it would make no great practical difference to a world that was now going to