he Church of Rome re- mains the one society that stands dogmatically firm on the private property of John Locke; though its scholars would protest, with some reason, that that is to give Locke credit for what he took at a few removes from Thomas Aquinas. Pius XII, in his encyclical of September 1, 1944, deals spe- cifically with the question of private property, in a timely en- deavor to make clear the Church's position. The need was patent. Promises of statesmen, and many suggestions and proposals of scien- tists and technicians, have given rise, in the victims of an unhealthy social and economic order, to a senseless hope of a millennium of uni- versal happiness. This feeling offers a fertile ground for propaganda for a most radical program . . . that does not expect anything from organic reform and everything from subversion and violence. The pope then recapitulates the philosophy upon which, among other things, the American Constitution was consciously and ex- plicitly founded:  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 114 SOVEREIGNTY VERSUS COMMUNITY Private property is a natural fruit of labor, a product of intense activity of man, acquired through his energetic determination to ensure and develop with his own strength his own existence and that of his fam ily, and to create for himself and his own an existence of just freedom not only economic but also political, cultural and religious. Having thus reaffirmed the position taken by Leo XIII in 1891 as well as that of Pius XI forty years after, the pope proceeds to put private property in its place, in terms so specific that liberal could hardly ask for more. "Whenever," he says, "capitalism arro gates unlimited right to property without any subordination to the common good, the church has condemned it as contrary to the rights of man." "We see small and medium property owners compelled to wage a defensive struggle . . . against those effec- tive concentrations of economic wealth, often hidden under anony mous forms, that succeed