ch to create. "I should like," he said, "to be able to turn out a substance or a machine of such horrible capacity for mass annihilation that thereby wars would become altogether im- possible." 1 He had certainly done his best, as one way of making a fortune; but he was not satisfied. To be stopped, he thought, war must be made deadly for civilians also; and since the com- bination of air power and high explosive was not then in sight, he wondered whether bacteriological warfare might turn the trick. Soon after, as was fitting, he died one of the loneliest deaths in history; and if ever there was a parable for modern times, it lay 1. Pauli, H. E., Alfred Nobel, p. 232.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 164 in the fact that the doctors had given him his own damned nitro- glycerin to drink for medicine. It failed. As with his century, the heart had died while the brain lived on. But as most good parables have an undertone of humor, we may recall that while Christian men were expatiating on the wickedness of selling firearms and "firewater" to Red Indians and Hottentots, such men as Nobel and Zaharoff (Sir Basil ) were encouraged by every sort of inducement to sell their machines and concoctions to governments of Christian men. Thus in the fullness of time were the benefits of applied sci ence impartially applied to civilians and children, black, white and yellow. Nobel's dream attained its grand fulfilment. And Herr Hitler decreed a boycott of the peace committee for having awarded its prize to a pacifist. Such is the logic of disintegration ยง 2 WHEN we wonder how it was that the centrifugal forces got so completely out of hand, despite so many warnings, a curious para- dox arises. The enlargement and enrichment of personal activities in every sphere should, it would seem, have led to a correspond ing enlargement and enrichment of human association. That had actually been the case in several earlier periods of renaissance. But this time the opposite tendency prevailed. The effec