on have primordial origins: for instance, the association of height with sublimity and divinity, of light with knowledge and illumination, of wind with inspiration and power.12 Religious rites show something of the same catholicity, and the early Christians 11. Bevan, E., Christianity, pp. 83-84. 12. On the whole subject see Bevan, E., Symbolism and Belief and Hebert, A. G., Liturgy and Society.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 54 were well aware of the fact. They were not acquainted with the Trobrian Islanders, but they had a first-hand knowledge of the cults of the Hellenistic and imperial eras, and their writings abound in it. "St. Paul's epistles are full of echoes of the pagan mystery- religions, and it became plain that the Christian Gospel was con- cerned with precisely those questions which the mystery-re- ligions asked, about God and the soul, salvation and immortality. It was therefore natural and inevitable that the answer should be stated, more and more as time went on, in the terms in which the question was being asked, and that Christianity should appear before the world as one of the mystery-religions, and the ritual of its sacraments should follow the lines of the mystery rites." 13 But as Fr. Hebert goes on to show, the new power that had entered the world was strongly at work not merely in molding the forms but in fulfilling the meaning. And precisely because this was an inward power, the Christian cult revealed its difference in a con- spicuously outward matter, a life and death situation: it was the one cult that refused to worship the state. When the Church has recovered its courage, and will face the consequences as it did be- fore, the future of Western man may begin to brighten. ยง 5 IT IS impossible not to sympathize with the bewilderment and exasperation of the Roman magistrates confronted with this seem- ingly perverse defiance. A formal courtesy, just a pinch of in- cense on the altar to divus Augustus-why make such a fuss about that? One is reminde