e for it; while recognizing all the while that it will never be perfectly attainable, because the intention, as well as the extension, of community is capable of continuous enrichment. And one thing, in the historical perspective, strikes the liberal: communities of all types, as they become organized and self- conscious, have a tendency also to become closed. The "I belong" tends increasingly to imply "you don't." Consciousness of kind be- comes increasingly consciousness of difference. And consciousness of difference tends, as among children, to be translated in terms of superior and inferior; and so put into action. This is true, and familiar if one thinks about it, of social groups and "classes," clubs and fraternities, schools and colleges, churches and religions, trade-unions and labor movements, nations and empires. Lib- eralism finds its immediate, specific, and unending task in pre- serving the open-endedness of human association, in combating this natural exclusiveness that appeals so powerfully to the con- ceit and insecurity of human nature. For it knows that peace among men depends on the open arms of the Christian cross-not on the twisted arms of another kind of cross; and it aspires to the vision of the great Christian poet who was also a keen politician,  20 THE LIBERAL TRADITION "that in this little plot of earth belonging to mortal men, life may pass in freedom and with peace." 13 A paradox? Perhaps. But it is both man's ineluctable fate and his final consolation that he must hope for it, strive for it, and be- lieve in it. 13. Dante, De Monarchia, XVI (Church). II The Classical Foundations 1. The Greek ideal. - 2. Its relevance to a cramped cul- ture. - 3. The danger from the doctrinaires. - 4. The Greek foundations: supremacy of law. - 5. Government by consent: qualifications. ยง 1 S ELDOM has the riddle of freedom versus organization, lib- erty versus stability, the party of progress versus the party of order, been so dramatically presented as in