ich the dynamic powers of man as a tool-making animal can be reconciled with his aspiration as a spiritual being to live in true human community. While conservatism may be the guardian, liberalism is the architect of community-of community ever wid- ening in both physical and spiritual scope. The liberal method alone can transform the crude propinquity of force or necessity into the true community of mind and will. That is its perennial function. The one thing certain about the whole human enterprise is that it will not stay still. There can be no such thing any more as a closed community: the American fleet disposed of that possibility ninety years ago. Every technical achievement of the contriving 12. Reported in PM, March 16, 1944. 17 animal widens the area of his effective impact on his fellow crea- tures-even when he tried to hoard his secrets; and much as he would prefer that impact to become community, he finds that like as not it turns to slaughter. It is hard for him to recognize that all his contriving is ethically, axiologically neutral. Yet as fast as he invents new weapons he discovers new enemies on which to try them; and while he fashions new products for the health and comfort of his kind, he fights for the plants and minerals from which they come. There is nothing whatever in the nature of human contriving to stop all this; yet if one suggests that its outcome may well be general chaos or the extermination of the species, something in the contriving creature protests that that can not, must not, be. In some dim way the creature loves his kind, even when he destroys it with all the efficiency his brain affords him. He wishes, even as he kills, to know and dwell in amity with these other people: not all the propaganda of all the "experts" can quite eradicate that wish. He would, if only he knew how, scatter life instead of death upon them: but for that he must know more surely what life is. To ensure that man the contriver is man the life bringer rath