y different motive. A con- servative philosophy will hardly become prevalent unless there is something satisfying to conserve-or something worse to fear. The motives mix; but governing classes are apt to be conservative for the one reason, the poor for the other. When the sense of se- curity is disturbed, pride in past achievement unites with nascent apprehension to promote an explicit, sometimes an aggressive, conservatism. In Britain it is inspired by pride in the part Britons have played on the world stage, pride in the empire: no mean nor baseless sentiment, admirably embodied in the present leader of the conservative party, the scion of the house of Marlborough. In France conservatism has rested its pride not so much in the em- pire as in that living France which is older than the empire or the revolution: no mean nor baseless sentiment, tragically seeking now for a worthy voice. In America, since security is not threat- ened and pride so easily slips into arrogance, the roots of a true conservatism are difficult to detect. Can it be that the American people have been sedulously encouraged to take pride in the wrong things, while the right things are stealthily filched from them? But beneath all the rationale of conservatism lies that funda- mental polarity we spoke of; and in modern pronouncements it is very evident. Professor Hearnshaw, for instance, at the outset of his study of Conservatism in England (1933) distinguishes as basic social forces a "party of order" and a "party of progress": a distinction similar to that implied in the title of Bertrand Russell's Freedom Versus Organization (1934). Both parties, says Hearn- shaw, are necessary to the working of a democratic state, and the distinction between them is mainly one of emphasis. Identifying the "progressive" and the "liberal," Hearnshaw admits that the "party of order"-the conservative party-originates in the fear of change: "civilization is a frail flower doubtfully struggling for existence amid a