ideological or re- ligious war would be guilty of a crime against civilization; and a stupid crime at that, since ideas are not to be disposed of, as are human beings, by the use of high explosive. 3. Nicolson, H., Why Britain Is at War, pp. 131-134.  . 230 THE LIBERAL TRADITION ยง 3 YET, as the Western conflict ends, the contrast between American idealism and Anglo-Russian empiricism threatens again to im- pede constructive work for peace; and as it happened twenty-five years ago, the Wilsonian tradition may invite another disillusion. Mr. Roosevelt, in contrast to his predecessor, had throughout the gathering European crisis taken a strongly partisan line; neu- tral in thought, he said, was precisely what we could and should not be. After the outbreak of hostilities he showed no hesitation in condemning "the totalitarian powers in their war against the democracies." 4 The United States would "continue to help those who resist aggression." 5 Hitler was branded as the "enemy" "our fundamental rights-including the right of labor." 6 His at- of tack was "aimed at the form of government, the kind of society that we in the United States have chosen. . . . It is not an or- dinary war." 7 Throughout the earlier stages of official American participation, it was customary to speak of the powers on the same side as "the democracies" resisting "powerful and resourceful gangsters (who) have banded together to make war upon the whole human race." 8 But so broad an application of the term democracy entailed embarrassments, and the term "peace-loving nations" was substituted. This term, to which we shall return, re- ceived official status in the Moscow declaration of October, 1943. The exegesis thus offered by the President was seconded by statements as to the defense of "the whole Western hemisphere" 9 which mark an important, and probably permanent, change in American policy. With the latter we are not here concerned; but the effect of the former was to encourage the conception