pened; and the common attitude to protective legislation is even yet influenced by it. It must therefore be em- phasized that the rejection of state responsibility was an ab- normal and revolutionary act running counter to precedent, tradi- tion, and Christian justice. It was an outstanding example of what happens when the state as the source of justice is dominated by an economic interest; and the mischief is equally great whether the domination comes from one side (as in the Duke of Wel- lington's England) or the other (as in M. Blum's France or Mr. Franklin D. Roosevelt's America). In either case the effect is to put the coercive power into the hands of men whose conception of the common good cannot, and in the end will not, be accepted; and a reaction necessarily ensues. The gains made by one group or another in the meanwhile are never sufficient to pay the price of the betrayal. Of course, in the Marxist perspective there is no such thing as disinterested justice, and no "class" of people who will make it their concern; so the best history can offer is a series of actions and reactions until in the end a working unity is attained  132 THE LIBERAL TRADITION by the simple process of exterminating the opposition, as in Russia The disclaimer of responsibility for the condition of the work ing people made by the British Government in the Napoleonic period did not last long in its extreme form. The prohibition on workmen's combinations endured for twenty-four years; and in less than twenty years from the repeal of the Elizabethan system government inspectors were empowered to invade the private property of manufacturers. The whole nineteenth century saw a steady reassertion of the state's traditional concern with social justice, culminating in the minimum wage and social insurance systems of the twentieth. That achievement was the work of all parties and all classes, operating through an amazingly heter- ogeneous assortment of individuals-tailors, printers, artisans.