f these things on any scale that could be called common or integral. Its activity was centrifugal rather than linear. Its background, as we have said, was the revolt of ordinary men, in one sphere after another, against external authority; but the success of that revolt in itself settled nothing, it was merely the prelude to a wide variety of possibili- ties T ยง 1 Consider some of them. There was the logical extension of the revolt against external authority to a revolt against all authority whatever, as we see it in the anarchist philosophies of the mid- century, especially in Russia, with their profound influence on modern art and fiction. This might perhaps be called the extreme of positive individualism. But there was also a negative individual- ism of passivity, of subjectivism, that led to the cult of sensation, to "art for art's sake," to the weary quest for anything new in ex- perience-the more exotic or perverse, the better. Along this line, of course, the distinction between vice and virtue lost its clarity; and while some extolled the processes of mass murder as the acme of experience, others-to use Algernon Cecil's phrase-exchanged  160 THE LIBERAL TRADITION the beauty of Christianity for the beauties of Christianity on a scale that called for more compassion than they could ever ap- preciate. They were encouraged to do so by the enormous crop of subjectivist philosophies that the nineteenth century produced. the intellectual counterpart of the cult of sensation. We may gladly acknowledge that in both spheres achievements of perma- nent value and beauty resulted; but they were located on a pleas- ant backwater rather than the main stream. To make either the aesthetic or the dialectic activity of the isolated individual a final criterion for the truth of art or knowledge was not perhaps illogi- cal; but it was to commit oneself to a decidedly minor phase of the human adventure. There were brilliant minds, from Stendhal to Artzibashef, who sought to deny t