Officers' Training Camp at Fort Sheridan, and in December, 1917, was detailed abroad for service, receiving subsequently the Distinguished Service Medal. He was killed while on active duty near Thiaucourt, France, on September 17, 1918, the twenty-fourth anni- versary of his birth.  PREFACE For: P REFACES should be written last, as this one is. They then reduce the writer to a seemly frame of mind, as he compares what he set out to do with the little he has been able to accomplish. This book is an attempt to restate in terms suited to our time the noblest of political philosophies. Against the temerity of the aim must be set the urgency of the occasion. No treatment would be adequate that depicted liberalism as a thing merely of today or yesterday; but the wealth of material made a brief pres- entation very difficult. The method finally chosen involves first, a fairly full account of the foundations; second, a survey of the historic obstacles and opposed positions; finally, a rough sketch of some leading contemporary applications. While I am solely responsible for all opinions expressed, I am under many and deep obligations. Among these it is a pleasure, after many years, to acknowledge my debt to the Cambridge historians of my time, especially Z. N. Brooke of Caius, D. A. Winstanley of Trinity, and my former tutor C. R. Fay of Christ's. The obligation I share with all liberals to the work and teaching of L. T. Hobhouse will, I trust, be evident. Particular thanks are due to two of my present colleagues: to Professor F. H. Hankins for the generous tolerance with which, through twenty years, he has clarified the discussion of opposing viewpoints; to Professor V. M. Scramuzza for detailed and constructive criticism of a large part of the manuscript. I am further indebted for constant encour- agement and counsel to that distinguished jurist and gallant liberal to whom this book is dedicated. Northampton, Mass. W. A. O.  ACKNOWLEDGMENTS For: FOR permission to quote, ack