n letter. But since the Bible in the vernacular proved the greatest instrument of popu- lar education the Western world had hit upon, in that respect the Protestant movement may be held to have furthered the Renais sance. Niebuhr's comment, to which we shall presently revert, is that the flaw in Renaissance culture lay in its boundless optimism. From that characteristic sprang the idea of progress and the many types of secular utopianism that have colored all subsequent thought. Liberalism is deeply involved in this; for "the idea of progress is the underlying presupposition of what may be broadly defined as 'liberal' culture. If that assumption is challenged the whole structure of meaning in the liberal world is imperilled." 10 Yet who can deny today that it is challenged? Niebuhr's favorite term for criticism, on the other hand, of the Reformation world outlook is an adjective derived, significantly enough, from the current war of ideologies: the term "defeatist" This brings us to the second of the distinctions mentioned above. the first was the basic distinction between Renaissance and Refor- mation; the second is the distinction between the original, and innate, impulses of Protestantism and their subsequent paradoxical development in the national Protestant societies. ยง 3 WHEN we think of the spiritual antecedents of Protestantism, we naturally recall the great revival of personal religion in the thir- 10. Ibid., p. 240. THE BREAKDOWN OF UNIVERSALITY 67 teenth century, and the trouble some of the Franciscans got into with their ecclesiastical superiors. But we cannot stop there. That was mainly a movement within, and radiating from, the orders; but in the twelfth century we find it among the people: among the poor men of Lyons, for example, and the women, and the lay Bible readers of northern France. And we are reminded of those Milanese "ragpickers" of yet a hundred years earlier, who stood up to the papal legates and made their case against the worldli- ness