o counteract them by an expansion of its activities. There is no stop this side of paradise; for the inflationary spiral is constantly held in check by an ex- 11. Almost, but not quite: the experience of Germany is highly relevant. Cf. Flynn, J., As We Go Marching.  302 VX THE LIBERAL TRADITION pansion of state control over private investment, prices, and, if necessary, wages and consumption. This is the pattern of the future that the British Liberal Party, at its 1945 conference, saw fit to adopt. Obviously, it has popular appeal. The god of religion never promised such ease and security as the god of materialism. Perhaps he had other ends in view; per- haps he demanded too much. Sir William Beveridge, addressing the conference in behalf of his program, represented liberty as "release from economic servitude." That was one way of putting it. Another way is suggested by the titles of two significant works by European authors: Erich Fromm's Flight from Freedom and F. A. Hayek's Road to Serfdom. There were dissident voices at the Liberal Party conference; notably that of the staunch exponent of Anglo-American friend- ship and freedom of trade, F. W. Hirst. But perhaps the most elo- quent protest came from America. It is worth preserving, as a salute to those whom Sir William called "bow-and-arrow liberals": Is this really the face of the brave new world that the planners have in mind? Is this the free society of the future, with its swarm of func- tionaries who will supervise every economic intention on the part of enterprise and every move on the part of labor? Where is that tradi- tional England, which, under the lead of its bold and speculating busi- ness men, smashed the closed ring of the earlier authoritarian system -that of mercantilism-and created a climate of freedom in economic and political affairs? In the process England left the whole Western world these twin heritages: a vision of material abundance and social welfare, and the noble defenses of human fre