al to, and received a great deal from, the consolidating national states. It is also true that when their rivalries happened to run along national lines (which was not always the case ) they received, and welcomed, diplomatic and even military assistance. But it was by no means taken for granted that their economic advantage coincided with that of the entire national community. On the contrary, a very fruitful economic debate sprang up over that very question. Nor were they willing, without a struggle, to merge their identities with that of the state which gradually absorbed them. The extent to which, for example, the East India Company, the Hudson's Bay Company, or even (and that is a test case) the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, can be re- garded as the originators of the militant nationalism that pervaded their areas is easily exaggerated. The state brought its own pur- poses to bear over, or through, such organizations, and its pur- poses went beyond the economic: the drive for power had deeper roots. The trading companies had, on the whole, made economic  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 172 expansion very profitable; it is more than doubtful whether the process showed a net profit to the nation-states. India might be the brightest jewel in the British crown, but the British people have never ceased paying for it; on direct account it is now a heavy liability; but even in good times, if the total cost of im perial strategy and "preparedness" could be computed, including the diversion of resources, the margin of economic gain would be small or nonexistent. Similarly, the cost to the United States, before December 7, 1941, of holding and defending the Philippines and the complementary naval bases, would probably exceed any eco- nomic advantages that either the nation or ar r any of its citizens ac- quired. For it must not be assumed that in the absence of political and military control there would have been no trade and no in vestment. Nor again can it be argued that militant n