ld's most elaborately organized war. The out- cry against "bureaucracy" in both Britain and America was almost comically at odds with the demands of the situation; but that did not still it. The London Daily Mail in May, 1944 ( of all times!), was uttering this sort of plaint: One of the biggest political issues of our time has still to be decided. It is whether post-war Britain is to be a Democracy or a Bureauc- racy. The British people will have to say whether they are to continue to control their own destinies or whether they are to be cosseted and straight-jacketed by ant-heaps of busy officials. . . . There is no vested interest so pertinacious or so perilous as that of the State official. We have seen minor officials becoming more numerous and more intolerant. They swarm everywhere from the home to the factory, and everywhere they are an unwelcome brake on enterprise. . . . and so forth and so on. There is no recognition of the fact that total organization calls for an enormous increase in regulation and control. There is no reference to the fact that the purpose of the organization has overwhelming popular support, including that of the complainant. The editors know their public. They know that a periodic outcry against "government interference" is always sure of a welcome. They know that their millions of readers simply de-  For: 24 THE LIBERAL TRADITION test being ordered about in even the best of causes, and will sub- mit to it only under the maximum emergency and for the minimum time. Their objection is not to be interpreted as either for or against any particular theory of society, nor is it confined to any particular class or occupation. Little business as much as big business likes to run its affairs its own way, farmers as well as wage earners re- sent the state acting as schoolmaster even while they take its subsidies, trade-unions castigate their own elaborate and expensive bureaucracies. It is all an instinctive and irrepressible assertion of the d