s it was one, really consisted. § 2 THE full force of the contract idea was first let loose not by the Protestants but by the Jesuits, in their case against divine-right monarchy. Bellarmine, Mariana, and Suárez, developing the thought of St. Thomas, all emphasize the conditional character of secular rule. It is, says Thomas, divinely ordained; but for that very reason, say his later exponents, it cannot be absolute. They give it a "natural" origin very much resembling that of Locke and Rousseau; but they add that when the exercise of secular authority traverses the conditions of its ordination (which include of course due respect for spiritual authority ) it is ipso facto void and must be cleared out of the way-if necessary, says Mariana, with an ax The Calvinists, in effect, agreed with them, practically as well as theoretically; and the instinct of the English rejected both. What later contract theorists are doing is to discuss sovereignty in terms of power when what they really want to talk about is function (their successors have very generally perpetuated the confusion ). And in order to discuss the proper function of sov- ereignty in human affairs, one must have some theory or con- spectus of human nature to begin with. That is why Hobbes Locke, Hume, Smith, Rousseau, Bentham, the Mills, and many lesser lights have to set up as psychologists before they can be political philosophers. And that is why the living impact of their work lies so largely in theories and declarations of "natural rights" They are saying, This is the true nature of man, and therefore If one does not agree with them the sentence will have a different conclusion. It has been well said that the net value of the various contract theories lies in the implication that all authority has a voluntary basis. That is their great and lasting contribution to the philosophy of liberalism. It holds good even of Hobbes, whose "social con- tract" hardly comes within the category. His "natural" men agree