nciples of ethics has not proved particularly fruitful. The difficulty for the modern positivist of accepting even so temperate a caution is twofold: it seems to take the meaning out  206 § 3 207 THE LIBERAL TRADITION of history, as he understands history; and it too painfully deflates the rationalist ego insofar as that has nothing left to fall back on As BERGSON has remarked, "our intellect has its instincts." There is an inherent tendency in every naïve intellectual to regard him- self as the heir of all the ages. It probably arises from an unana- lyzed experience of time as a directional flow, and it makes ver plausible the notion of history as a secular progress culminating in himself: culminating, that is, pro tempore, in a "specious pres ent," through which history is supposed to be De moving forward toward a still bigger-and-better future. From the mass of philo- sophical criticism that this idea has evoked, two points may be simply presented. i-History does not support it. Certainly human knowledge and technique relating to the physical and biological world have ac- cumulated to a degree never before known; though whether man's inherent powers, even in this field, have expanded is at least debatable. But the "straight-line theory" seems to hold good of technical processes only; in no other sphere is there evidence of such an accumulation. Other aspects of human life do not seem to admit of an accumulative process-those, for example, in which "values" such as beauty, insight, wisdom, are attainable. And the progress of rationality in respect of the physical setting by means validates any general view of history as a continuous "onward-and-upward." The "idea of progress" which was current in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century rationalism, and has even been used by some modern sociologists as a stick to beat the Church, has by this time been so battered by the course of events that it is broken past all mending. Instead, we are now offered pessimistic cyclical