2. The passion for clarity. - 3. The secular origins of individualism. - 4. Its revolu- tionary statement. - 5. Contrasting effects. ยง 1 F OR some hundred and fifty years a major part of the educa- tion of an Englishman has consisted in the effort to under- stand the French. The Spanish are definitely beyond his comprehension. The Russians do not expect it, the Americans do not need it. The Germans present a problem, but not an insoluble one; for there is no such thing as the German mind or spirit, there are several-the schizoid tendency is conspicuous-and by taking them one at a time, the Englishman can get some notion of what the shooting is all about. But there emphatically is such a thing as the French spirit: not only l'esprit, but la patrie, which is also a spirit; and perhaps a part of the English difficulty in recent years is that so many of the French appear to have lost touch with it themselves. The French aspiration to unity, French patriotism, what a Frenchman means by la patrie, is something that others can ap- proach only intellectually, which is rather less than halfway. Of course, some part of this passion is due to the difficulty of the his- torical circumstances; but not all of it. At heart perhaps it springs from a sense of consecration: the Celtic strain coming through While there are millions of French men and women who have never said an Ave Maria, there are very few for whom Joan is not a saint. But she dwells in heaven, not in Paris; and if-as is probable-she sometimes visits her land, an orchard in Lorraine would be a likelier spot to meet her than the Place de la Concorde It would seem as if the aspiration to unity had fallen victim to that undying illusion in which the meaning of all our mortal life INDIVIDUALISM appears to lie in some human association, or function, or society; 137 while the true France-the home for which the Frenchman has no word-lies on another plane than this. And perhaps it has been the fate of modern France, too skep