citizen. One wonders whether both lessons are not in some danger of being forgotten as the total compulsion of recurrent war engenders a disposition to extend it, on the grounds of "preparedness" or "se- curity," through the diminishing intervals. But even in the case of the objector to war, it is against specific acts or policies of the government that he usually protests. Very few of such protestants dispute the general authority of the gov- ernment itself. In the United States for the past eighty years, in Britain for twice that span, the number of people who opposed the fundamental basis of the state has been negligible. That number however, is now conspicuously increasing, both in Europe and in America. The doctrine that the state always represents the inter- ests of an economic class is essentially an attack on the state itself. comparable in both tactics and dogma to the ultramontane and Calvinist attacks. It strikes not only at the policies but at the authority of government, and releases its adherents from all inner obligations of obedience and loyalty. The results are already evi- dent, and are likely to be more so. For as the theory of communism influences more and more wandering minds, the principles and conditions of freedom under law are increasingly obscured. To take a critical instance: the practice of American courts and legis- latures in regard to allegations of seditious utterance has on the whole, until very recently, followed Justice Holmes's criterion of "clear and present danger" directly and demonstrably resulting therefrom. It was an erstwhile liberal, now a prisoner of the left -Mr. Max Lerner-who was one of the first to urge the abandon- ment of that criterion. Mr. Lerner pleaded the national emergency, forgetting how stoutly the British House of Commons, in circum- stances far more desperate, has resisted precisely that plea. The United States has developed a habit of emergencies; it will prob- THE SECULAR STATE 99 ably have one in the ba