has an adequate foundation in a vote of 50 per cent plus one. Stable law rests on something more than a bare majority in a mat- ter of economic opinion; it rests on a widespread moral consensus as to the end in view. Where such consensus is doubtful, law is in danger. This is not a matter of mechanics or procedure, but of states- manship. If legal or military compulsion is to be applied to remove a business owner from his premises, to support a labor monopoly in exacting tribute from all would-be workers, to fix commodity prices at arbitrary levels, to determine what wages (not merely minima) shall be paid, to repudiate national obligations, to secure  282 THE LIBERAL TRADITION the employment of public funds in vast economic operations in domestic and foreign fields-in all such cases, however laudable the intent, it is the part of wisdom to wait upon general conviction Such waiting may impose a severe strain on a limited amount of patience; but in the absence of general conviction, both the quan- tity and the quality of coercion are affected, and a crisis arises in which liberals and radicals have to part company. Social planners-as we remarked in the case of Plato- -are liable to what is almost an occupational disease: a certain astigmatism that affects the outlook. It is very rarely indeed that anyone co ceives of himself as needing to be put under restraint: it is always the other fellow. There are always of course good and sufficient grounds for the opinion. The other fellow is constantly doing things in an antisocial or irrational way, in the eyes of the fellow who does not have to do them at all. Very often the indictment has sub stance; nonetheless, the "back-seat driver" has become as well known a stereotype as the English mother-in-law. American busi- nessmen have manifested a certain antipathy toward "college pro- fessors" in Washington. This does not imply any real dislike of college professors; on the contrary, they are among the favorite pets of well-to