onsiderable ad- vantage; for "an instructed and intelligent people are more decent and orderly . .. less liable to the delusions of enthusiasm and superstition . . not disposed to judge rashly or capriciously" of government policy; and "in free countries" that "is surely of the highest importance." 17 He has his misgivings about certain aspects even of an unre- stricted system. He notes the ease and impunity with which em- ployers can enter into mutual agreements; he sees the bargaining advantage of even the single employer, and sympathizes with the efforts of the workmen to combine. He rejects the mercantilist posi- tion that regarded wages simply as costs, and therefore sought to hold them down; and he even goes beyond the criteria of what is now called "the economy of high wages": "no society can surely be flourishing and happy, of wh which the far greater part of the mem- bers are poor and miserable." Nor is it to any narrow economic calculus that he appeals in contending "it is but equity that they who feed, cloath and lodge the whole body of the people, should have such a share of the produce of their own labour as to be them- selves tolerably well fed, cloathed and lodged." 18 Smith opens the door much wider than is generally supposed not only to "public works" but to "those public institutions which though they may be in the highest degree advantageous to a great society, are, however, of such a nature, that the profit could never repay the expense to any individual, or small number of indi- viduals." The Scotsman can look beyond the profit, and character- 16. Ibid., Book I, chap. vi. 17. Ibid., Book V, chap. i, Part 3, Art. ii. 18. Ibid., Book I, chap. viii.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 118 istically gives education special stress. Nor, in the largest issue. does his magnanimity fail. The ideal solution to the quarrel with America, he thinks, is that the colonists should have direct rep- resentation in the British Parliament. And if, as is not unlikely American p