market in history. Money was king, and it ruled without a constitution; a substantial slice of is domain lay in the profits of the slave trade, which in 1713 Bolingbroke took particular pains to ensure. The proletarian move- ment that had raised its loquacious head to bother the Lord Pro- tector was safely silenced. Radical puritanism, with its deep piety and earnest probity that had always distrusted speculative capi- tal, was reduced to the mere negations of "dissent" and "noncon- formity." Marlborough, with the aid of a great deal of money as well as of genius, had restored British prestige abroad; and money was a major factor in the election of legislators and the tenure of ministers at home. The Protestant succession was solidly founded on the Bank of England. And Walpole-who had made a fortune on the South Sea Bubble, but was lucky enough to be out of office when he did it-now had the support of the people who really mattered in putting the ship of state on a solid business basis. "The balance of trade became as great a fetish as the balance of power, and demanded from its votaries as many sacrifices and as much blood." 9 To the men of the eighteenth century, it was worth what it cost. The cost was not great-at the time; cannon fodder was cheap, and foreign policy was almost as much a matter of subsidies as of armies. The gains were tremendous. It is nonsense to say that Britain acquired the empire in a fit of absent-mindedness. The trading companies that laid its founda- tions; the investors who backed them; the politicians who helped to eliminate their rivals; the statesmen who decided when public war should succeed to private; the contractors who equipped the ships and the armies; the bankers who advanced the money; the diplomats who closed the deals-all these people knew quite well what they were doing and why they were doing it. If the eighteenth century is to be considered an age of rationalism, these were the true rationalists. A lot of the proceeds, we