ind of law os that out of which lawyers make a living. The stubborn absence in English of words such as other languages possess to convey this distinction, and its necessary applications, suggests some- thing peculiar in the English approach to the whole problem. But natural law, like divine right, had a work to do. It was in- voked to fill a vacuum; and even in Protestant countries it was at heart a religious conception. It stood for something both onto- logically and axiologically prior to secular actuality, to which when necessary appeal could be made. And as the churches of England and Germany went down the smooth Erastian slope, natural law came up. The life of the Anglican Church after the revolution was more and more a matter of outward conformity-perhaps in con- sequence of the emphasis legislation laid on conformity, as the one thing it could effect; perhaps also because conformity was re- quired, at least nominally, for the more important administrative and educational positions. The Church was the mart of respect- ability, and the poor were not wanted; in at least one case the rich departed, locking their pews behind them, when a popular preacher drew the crowd in. "Enthusiasm" was bad form; and despite its Sunday decorum, England seemed to Voltaire the most irreligious of countries. Nonconformity and dissent were becom- ing stratified, as they have largely remained, on social lines. It was the Wesleys and George Whitefield who took religion to the poor, in field and slum; and the Church could not contain them either, though they raised no standard of revolt. Such was the religious outcome of the enlightenment, which was now devising, outside the old tradition, its own theology and metaphysics of "nature"-because it had to. Both Catholics and puritans had persistently applied their religious postulates to the problems and practices of everyday life: too persistently, in fact. Now both were rejected. But after the clergy-or the more ac- commodating part of