e latter believe that their interests, privileges, and even their very security are bound up in the maintenance of the "Horse Guards." Hence the very unfashionable character of our movement, and hence the difficulty of inducing influ- ential persons to attend our meetings.2 2. Letter of September 19, 1853. See Hobson, J. A., Richard Cobden, p. 94; Morley, op. cit., chap. xxi. RETREAT FROM LIBERALISM Cobden goes on to describe the general attitude of his country- men as "arrogant, dictatorial and encroaching toward foreigners"; 225 but it must be remembered that most of Palmerston's foreign ad- Dentures were conceived, or at least presented, in terms of a certain ble. Hlealism: idealism and arrogance being, of course, not incompati- The idealism of the masses is in fact a greater obstacle to peace than their chauvinism; for while the latter is latent and sporadic, the former is constant and more flattering to self-esteem. The united States, in virtue of its immigration policy, has become a ciant sounding board for the plaints of every oppressed of warted minority on earth. In Britain that effect was tempered by a proximity to the scene of operations from which Americans pre fortunately shielded; and idealism is naturally more eager when it is accompanied by a consciousness of great strength and great resources. In these circumstances no general will to peace may be assumed-for disillusion is by no means the same thing- und in the absence of a genuine philosophy of peace, the use of force can always be presented as ethically superior. $ 2 BRITISH liberalism, as we said, saw freedom of trade as an integral part of the policy of peace; but it was a tragic circumstance that nonintervention and free trade had so little chance to pull to- dether. No sooner were the ports made free to shipping and the customs barriers pulled down than foreign affairs fell into the hands of Palmerston; and it is noteworthy that the same mob sentiment that cheered him on raised a ed an unprec