de to a complete transformation of economic society. Henry VIII, in the violence of his assault on an order that was already in process of fundamental change, proved to be even more of a revolutionary than he intended; for the royal irascibility opened the door to a new class who were very generally regarded as usurpers, and a new ethos that rejected the whole Catholic system of economic equity. Not only was usury sanctioned; the traditional criterion of fairness in prices and wages-the com-  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 126 CAPITAL AND LABOR munis estimatio-was increasingly abandoned in favor of the simple test of profitability. Money began to talk louder than hu- manity. Money was the backbone of the greatness-of-the-nation policy. The modern temper appears in administration long before it becomes paramount in legislation; particularly in the adminis tration of the Elizabethan labor code of 1562. The code itself has been described as a backward gesture: a final attempt to reëstab lish the status system in the guise of the well-regulated state; and so perhaps it was. But it did not so appear at the time. The right and duty of the state to regulate industry were unquestionable. no overt challenge arose for another century. It is in the applica- tion of the code that the determining influence appears. The wage- fixing powers are increasingly used to hold wages down, decreas- ingly to keep wages fair. Apprenticeship rules are applied spo- radically, and finally declared applicable only where "expedient' -expedient, that is, not to the skilled craftsmen but to the new masters of industry. At every stage of the process we can watch the legislature and magistracy hesitating about their duty, won- dering what really is the national interest, and being steadily pushed along toward the new policy. And when the final strain approaches, it is the artisans who are the conservatives, looking for justice to a state that used to protect them, only to find that state now in possession of