arthaginian peace advocated by Messrs. Morgenthau, Berge, Baruch, and others is adhered to, that is what will happen. By such THE PEACE-BY-FORCE ILLUSION means the pattern of international life can be held for a limited une under the domination of the big three and their satellites. It is Lere contended, however, that a durable international order can- 263 not be founded on the force relations obtaining between a particu- Le set of states at a particular time; that the growth of such an order depends on the free and voluntary cooperation of all agen- les serving a humane and constructive purpose; that such cooper- ction should be liberally encouraged by all peace-loving nations; and that the risks involved in this course are far smaller than those attendant on the peace-by-force illusion. ยง 4 IN THE development of functional internationalism, the leading economic organizations will obviously play a role of the utmost importance; and the hostility of the American Department of Jus- uce to international business agreements is so notorious as to call for special notice. A glance at what is just now the most critical area will serve to introduce the problem. In the forty years following the Franco-Prussian War, Germany built up the most highly integrated steel industry in the world. Its output far surpassed that of any national territory except the United States in the opening years of the twentieth century. No- body could have foreseen that result when Bismarck took Lor- caine, for the technique was not then in existence. It was English research that really founded the prosperity of the west European steel industry, and the Thomas-Gilchrist process did not come into general use until about a decade after the Peace of Frankfort. Then Lorraine went ahead-with Belgium, Luxembourg, and France also getting the benefit. The railroad system that conveyed the coking coal of the Ruhr to the ore of Lorraine was keyed into the fabric, and the mixed mills of the Saar Valley were f