ION great business are unknown to the management, to one another. or to the community; yet they may hold legal dominion over vast stores of the earth's resources in this and other continents, and en- ter into contracts, more powerful than political treaties, with similar groups all over the world. Right order surely demands that this system assume a more positive and continuous responsibility to mankind than can be attained by the negative power of govern- ment acting merely as policeman. The notion of the profit motive has undergone a similar process of abstraction. The right of a man to engage in freely chosen en- terprise that he thinks will be socially acceptable, to stake his cap- ital and labor on his adventure in a free market, to enter into co- operative association with good fellows of every degree to the same end-these are surely basic elements of decent life and hu- man freedom. But as originally propounded, and as here stated they rest on tacit moral postulates. They assume that the human fellowship that is involved and the community that is served are concrete facts of personal experience-as they mostly were in the eighteenth century, and still are for small businesses in small com- munities. It is for this reason much easier for small communities to be Christian communities; and almost impossible ble for very large ones. In the small community, the quest for profit, like any other impulse, is kept within a human frame of reference. Under modern conditions, the contention that the prospect of pecuniary profits is an adequate index to social needs is extremely debatable; and the more one knows of the ways in which profits are made, the more debatable it appears. It does not follow that the line of advance is to supersede private ownership and control by public ownership and control of busi- ness in general. In the first place, it is unwise to concentrate eco- nomic and political power in the same hands; they are too closely mixed up already. If it desire