ly to draw up a Constitution, which must be of the "demo- pratic-constitutional type." Elections will be under the control of the United Nations or an international police force. Collabora- tionists, Nazi sympathizers, etc., will not be allowed to vote, and parties with antidemocratic platforms are prohibited. 2. The victorious powers will scrutinize the constitution, which must contain a democratic bill of rights; and they will have veto power over objectionable provisions. 3. Ratifying elections are then to be held; and "if a nation should fail to elect a National Assembly whose majority is sincerely affairs. 11. Mr. Churchill: Internal political problems in Spain are a matter for the Coaniards themselves. It is not for us-that is, the government-to meddle in such Dr. Haden Guest: Is not a fascist government anywhere a preparation for an attack? Mr. Churchill: I presume we do not include in our program of world renovation any forcible action against any government whose internal form of administration fails to come up to our ideas, and any remarks I have made on that subject re- ferred only to enemy powers and their satellites. ( House of Commons, May 24, 1944.)  234 THE LIBERAL TRADITION pledged to democracy, or to write for itself a democratic consti- tution, or to ratify it by at least a two-thirds majority, it would indicate beyond reasonable doubt that such a nation is not quali- fied for self-government." ยง 4 PROFESSOR LOEWENSTEIN has rendered a real service in venturing thus to challenge a doctrine so dear to American idealists; and he suggests a line of action that has not only been followed before but will probably be followed again where circumstances permit. Britain has been cautious in conferring the right of internal self- determination upon India, and is not likely to be indifferent to the type of regime established in Burma and other colonies and de- pendencies, nor in her ( and other ) mandated areas, however these may be described. The same holds