es the Protestants to their struggle against the Church and against her secular arm." 6 The characteristic and all-too-familiar danger of the idealist approach lies of course in the overestimation of one set of values to a degree in which the full significance of the historical issue is lost. Among modern historians, J. B. Bury furnishes an outstand- ing example. Bury, true liberal though he was, really belongs to the school of nineteenth-century British rationalism. He could see nothing good in the Church, and little that was useful in any branch of what is now quaintly called "organized religion." To a chapter on the Middle Ages in one of his books he gives the title "Reason in Prison"; and of the adoption of Christianity by the Roman Empire he writes: "this momentous decision inaugurated a millennium in which reason was enchained, thought was en- slaved, and knowledge made no progress." 7 Woe betide any undergraduate who submitted such a statement to the Regius pro- fessor! But Bury had a peculiar emotional persuasion of the truth of such a view; and the effect was both to curtail and to "date" the contribution of his great scholarship. In lesser degree a somewhat similar qualification must apply to the work of a very recent Gifford lecturer. As a master-and exemplar-of radical Protestantism Reinhold Niebuhr has earned a unique position. The tireless erudition, and still more the pro- fundity of insight embodied in his great work, render it a major event in the study of Western Protestant spirituality. But his in- sight, following his sympathy, stops short on the threshold of that against which Protestantism is supposed to be a protest; and we are struck by a curious inability, which seems almost a reluctance. to see the Church and its Christendom from the Church's point of view. Thus the corporate aspect of spiritual life is almost entirely absent from the perspective. Again, the full significance of the his- 5. Dawson, C., The Judgment of the Nations, p. 98. 6.