ested on two fundamental principles: Nonintervention in the in- -ternal affairs of other nations, and freedom of trade. These principles were explicitly recognized by liberal statesmen as com- plementary to one another, being the negative and the positive conditions of peace and freedom. Their abandonment in our gen- eration effectively dispelled the hope of either. The principle of nonintervention was magnificently defended by both Burke and Smith in regard to the leading issue of their kime. It was further defined by Castlereagh in 1815, and followed, against ever-increasing opposition, by Canning, Huskisson, Peel, Cobden, Bright, Gladstone, Campbell-Bannerman, and Morley. In the course of that long defense, the nature of intervention re- ceived exhaustive definition. Public abuse and provocation were recognized as a leading form of it. Peel courageously repudiated the old fallacy-now being urged on the Americans-bellum pari si pacem velis. Cobden in 1850 attacked the business of inter- national moneylending with a candor that has seldom since been equaled.1 He refused to allow that the principle of free trade sanc- tions the lending of money wherever it can get the highest return, irrespective of the purpose and probable effects of the loan. So the press and the City of London denounced him, and the transac- tions of the moneylenders have continued to evade public scru- tiny even where public as well as private funds are involved. 1. See Morley, J., Life of Cobden, chap. xix, and speeches there cited.  224 THE LIBERAL TRADITION The liberal statesmen of the mid-century had to defend the rule of nonintervention even in cases where the grounds of a pro- posed intervention were such as to command widespread popu- lar support-to check a tyranny, or to ai o aid the causes ( then allied) of nationalism and representative government. "Peace, retrench ment, and reform" demanded that the interest of the home parish be balanced against even the most deserving of foreign mis