esumes too much, revolution is the necessary consequence. Life, liberty, and estate are vague terms-until one begins to lose what they stand for; but between them they cover the dynamic elements of mortal existence; and their very vagueness emphasizes the concessional and conditional character of all coercion, which must continually justify itself by a pragmatic test. And though in his civil constitution Locke will have the executive responsible to the legislature, he also holds that its acts must answer to a moral law which somehow informs the minds of men independently of all government. If this was an arbitrary solution of the problem of the double responsibility, it was nonetheless a real one; for it was designed above all to affirm that force creates no right. Locke unflinchingly carried his con- tention into the sphere of international relations and their normal mode of expression, organized violence. "A mere aggressor gains no right, and even a conqueror in a just war can never establish a right which contravenes the liberty and property of the con- quered." 8 Professor Laski, in his successive studies, becomes more and more critical of Locke because the natural right on which he put most of his emphasis was the right of property. Locke says: "Every man has a 'property' in his own person; this nobody has any right to but himself. The labour of his body and the work of his hands, we may say, are properly his. Whatsoever then he removes out of the state that nature hath provided and left it in, he hath mixed his labour with it, and joined to it something that is his own, and 8. Sabine, op. cit., p. 536, summarizing the argument of Locke's Civil Govern- ment, Bk. II, chap. xvi, "Of Conquest." The entire chapter is extraordinarily rele- vant to current discussion.  THE LIBERAL TRADITION 110 thereby makes it his property. It being by him removed from the common state nature placed it in, it hath by this labour some- thing annexed to it that excludes the common rig