pect to the famous literary landmarks from Milton to Mill, the rise of English civil liberties probably owes as much to the expansion of business as it does to philosophi- cal or political theory. In active economic life creedal and con- fessional distinctions are a nuisance; and after the Restoration no one was looking for trouble in that quarter. The press licensing law had lapsed before 1700, and the reign of the Whigs which be- gan soon afterward, if not entirely liberal, was decidedly latitudi- narian in temper. A fairly strict heresy law had indeed been passed as recently as 1698; but once the Tories were ousted the occasions on which it was used suggest that someone was deliberately rais- ing an issue or hounding a victim. As the century went on the requirements of Anglican conformity were more and more easily satisfied, and the legal disabilities of nonconformists were relaxed in practice long before they were abolished in theory. The Cor- poration of London had a way of mulcting rich dissenters elected to office, and got a Mansion House for the mayor out of the pro- ceeds; but it would hardly be correct to regard this grimly humor- ous procedure as religious persecution in the French sense. Eng. 91 land had ceased witch burning quite early in the century; and the continued animus against Roman Catholics arose from the fact that they insisted on taking religion more seriously than the age bad a mind to, and kept mixing it up with both domestic and foreign politics. Toleration, which was hardly even an ideal at the Restoration, permeated the public mind during the three following generations; was that fact which changed the attitude of public law; it was through that process that the joint work of the French and Eng- lish liberals came at last to fruition. Very seldom does liberal thought attain an immediate result in policy; indeed its nature is such that it not only must work, but aims to work, through the general intelligence. It was the signal merit of Vo