o the best of our judgment, would be kiectively just? Perhaps, in time; but in this as in all other cases, Peace is not to be conceived in negative terms: it consists in the Pctension of the sense of community, for which far more than po- tical action is required. Again, can one be sure that a democratic political system of and by itself dissolves-or even diminishes- Poial and religious hatreds? Is not something else needed, that no political system can supply? Yet if, as against a religion of de- Lacracy, the claims of another religion to the key of peace are consonably urged, may the case for intervention be invoked by chose believers also? They do not invoke it; for the reason that they have learnt by long experience the bitter futility of force. They know, as all true liberals know, that as soon as coercion is oralted from an exceptional remedy for the exceptional case to a general method for attaining no matter what millennium, such Dielence is done to the true nature of man as blood and sweat and tears must in the end atone for. That is why it is both dangerous and misle intseading to couple ethi- ool ideals with the organization of an international authority of which the members and the beneficiaries are to be "peace-loving options." For what is this "peace" but the purposes of the few treat powers who can wield enough force to preserve it? And what are "peace-loving nations" but those whom those powers themselves will select as concurring, actively or passively, in those purposes? This is not in the least to question those purposes, nor the prob- ability that peace does in fact, for a certain time, lie in that direc- tion-precisely so long as the purposes can be reconciled, or com- promised: what we are contesting is the introduction of ethical absolutes into the sphere of political dynamics. If you say that a cardinal aim of your policy is to preserve your frontiers from fu- hure invasion by land-hungry and powerful neighbors, or to se- cure better access t