rians; and as Pro- fessor Robson points out, "it emphasized the distinction between man and the rest of the universe." 1 It remained for modern times to reverse the emphasis, in both theory and practice. THE BREAKDOWN OF UNIVERSALITY For while Goths, Franks, and Vandals might have power of 59 the body, the Church had power of the mind. Not only did she hold the keys to life eternal; within her gates civilization itself had taken sanctuary-as it may do again-and under her banner letters and learning were to find safe conduct through the peril- ous terrain of a world in travail. While new centers of community arose and life in the cities and on the great estates acquired co- herence, lore and custom were touched by the echoes of a larger order, and simple force sought once again its transmutation into authority. For between power and authority there is the same sort of dis- tinction as was later to be recognized between possession and property. While power may reside in persons or groups of per- sons, authority does not. Persons may temporarily be able, rightly or wrongly, to coerce other persons; but authority does not in- here in human beings. If in such a work as this we cite "an author- ity," it is not to the individual man as such that we appeal, but to the wider knowledge or deeper insight that has already been acclaimed in him; and if his scholarship is later shown to be in error or his judgment at fault, our authority is an authority no longer, and our appeal loses its compulsion. The appeal, more- over, is made in a limited field; and in every such case it is some- thing transmitted or revealed through the individual that con- stitutes the real authority. If we learn through the eyes or ears of an artist to distinguish more surely the true from the false, it is the truth and falsehood of art itself that we experience, and the truth that compels our observance-literally compels; for once the recognition is achieved it is impossible, short of deliberate pervers