al doctrine. The Strategic Bombing Survey claimed the switch to area bombing occurred "because of the contributions in numerous ways of the civilian population to the fighting strength of the enemy, and to speed the securing of unconditional surrender."38 205 The most direct reason for the switch was the simplest and most prag- matic. From high altitudes, Twentieth Air Force bombardiers could not hit the nail on the head or the broad side of a barn. They aimed at what they could hit-cities. Despite the inaccuracy of wartime bombing, American intent had gen- erally been to destroy the machines of war. B-29s were the greatest and most expensive expressions of the doctrine of daylight precision strategic bombing. The ultimate irony was that these bombers would also come to represent the failure of that doctrine as leaders abandoned it and took up area bombing with the B-29 as the primary weapon for mass destruction. Doctrine makers of the 1930s looked to strategic bombing to avoid the horrors of World War I trench warfare. What they found in the skies over Japan avoided the trenches but was equally horrific.  207 Epilogue Epilogue T he Norden M-9 remained the bombsight of the Army Air Forces and the U.S. Air Force into the nuclear age. It lost much of its secrecy when the New York Times revealed the United States had shipped it to the Soviets in the spring of 1944 to en- tice them into providing the Army Air Forces with shuttle bombing bases near Poltava.1 The coming of jet bombers forced multiple modifications to the Norden design, but the basic system soldiered on. Attempts to achieve greater bombing precision through radio-controlled bombs still depended on the Norden bombsight for control and release. When the Navy needed an inexpensive, accurate, rugged device for dropping acoustic sensors along the Ho Chi Minh Trail during the Vietnam conflict, it brought the Norden bombsight out of mothballs.2 The C-1 autopilot also labored on after the war. The AFCE/SBAE (au- t