pping acoustic sensors along the Ho Chi Minh Trail during the Vietnam conflict, it brought the Norden bombsight out of mothballs.2 The C-1 autopilot also labored on after the war. The AFCE/SBAE (au- tomatic flight control equipment/stabilized bombing approach equip- ment), still built by the Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Company, gave early Cold War pilots fingertip control over their jets, in addition to im- proving the accuracy of their bombsights. In the 1950s the Air Force and Navy replaced it with new Honeywell autopilots that worked much the same as the C-1, but relied on electromechanical and electronic compo- nents.3 Increasingly radar and electronics took over bomb-aiming responsibili- ties. The World War II engineering revolution bypassed Carl Norden, who refused to read the writings of other engineers and missed the switch to electronics. The Navy gave up on the Norden first, replacing it with the AN/ASB-1 radar bombing and navigation system, using both optical and radar sighting. The Air Force built on the wartime successes of NOSMO and NOSMEAGLE, pairing various radars and the Norden M-9B to over- come the weather limitations of optical sighting and the inherent inaccu- racy of radar sighting. In the 1950s Norden technology reached its limit. Bombers were be- coming too fast for its mechanical components and the atomic and ther- monuclear bombs had made pinpoint bombing unnecessary. Dave's Dream, a Norden-equipped B-29, aimed a Fat Man atomic bomb at the USS Ne- vada near the Bikini Atoll in July 1946 under perfect conditions from 29,000 feet. It missed by 2,130 feet, but 20,000 tons of TNT-equivalent atomic explosives still destroyed the target. A B-52 used radar from 40,000 feet in May 1956 to drop a thermonuclear bomb, but missed by 19,000 feet due to bombardier error. The inaccuracy was embarrassing, but a yield of 3.75 megatons made it hardly critical.4 New electronic devices with transistors made the gears, cogs, and discs of the Norden bombsigh