ified Wimperis device. On January 15, 1920, Cdr. Arthur C. Stott of BuOrd asked a Brooklyn-based engineer, Carl L. Norden, to investigate the possibility of gyroscopic stabilization for the Mark III. Norden had previously worked on ship stabilization and on the Navy's aerial torpedo project.11 Norden's first contact with the Navy had come indirectly in 1918 through the Sperry Company, which was working on an aerial torpedo catapult contract. Because of problems with the device, the Navy asked Sperry to consult an outside expert. Commander Stott, chief of the Avia- tion Ordnance Section of BuOrd, was impressed with the logic and clarity of comments appended to the outside expert's evaluation. It listed no au- thor, but Stott saw the name "Norden" penciled in under several com- ments in the margins. A check of the Brooklyn telephone book and a tele- phone call began the contact that would prove so fruitful for the Navy and Norden over the next three decades.12 Stott and Norden continued to meet to discuss Navy technical prob- lems, including the difficulties of bombing ships from altitude with any certainty of success. Stott wrote Norden on January 15, 1920, that the Navy was "extremely anxious" for Norden to initiate studies to improve the standard Navy bombsight, the Mark III, by adding stabilization, a tele- scope, and a pilot-directing mechanism. Reflecting the budget crunch, Stott asked that Norden incorporate as much of the Mark III in his design as possible. Norden intended to modify the Mark III to include automatic compass orientation and the precise automatic input of altitude and air- speed data. In subsequent correspondence, he refined his plans to include mounting the sight inside the airplane to reduce the effects of wind and weather on the bomb-aiming process and to build a stabilized base. Nor- den would work as a consulting engineer to the Witteman-Lewis Aircraft Company, which would build the bombsight Norden would design. Desig- nated the Pilot Dire