r Corps would pursue a replacement. Norden had designed the SBAE with long steel cables connecting servomotor drums to aircraft control surfaces. Cables could experience a 140-degree drop in temperature at altitudes above 20,000 feet, where 60 degrees below zero was common, resulting in a complete loss of tension and, therefore, control. The temperature inside  124 Chapter 7 125 Preparation for War an aircraft could also vary, with cables in the wings being cooler than cables inside the cabin. The differing thermal expansion of aluminum, the main metal component of aircraft, and steel, from which the cables were con- structed, caused additional tension problems.37 Three years of work by Wright Field's Special Design Unit of the Air- craft Laboratory failed to solve the tension problem. This, plus BuOrd and Norden's refusal to pursue a solution, forced the Air Corps' hand. On January 6, 1940, it formally informed the Navy that it intended to replace the Norden SBAE with a new Sperry A-5 AFCE, to be designed with elec- trical controls, servomotors located near the aircraft's control surfaces, and electrically operated gyroscopes compatible with the Norden bombsight. Although the project proved a failure,38 it pressured the Navy into action. In December 1940 BuAer ordered the Naval Aircraft Factory in Philadel- phia to create a "highest priority" device that would allow the Norden bombsight to be connected to the ubiquitous Sperry A-3 autopilot. The Naval Aircraft Factory had a prototype adapter ready and installed in an XPBY-1 test-bed aircraft at Dahlgren two weeks later. Weighing 35 pounds, it provided a savings of 91 pounds for an aircraft that formerly had to carry both the SBAE and Sperry autopilot.39 Dahlgren finished testing of the Naval Aircraft Factory adapter in April 1941, but could not make it work. Sperry designed its autopilots to receive direction instructions by rate signal, while Norden designed its bomb- sights to send direction instructions to the S