precision unnecessary. Although he thought the enemy's will to resist was the proper target of strategic bomb- ing, he never determined whether this should be done through attacks on civilians or on industry.31 Another Briton argued against this mainstream, fearing that area attacks on cities might be adopted as the proper use of air power: "Widespread is the idea that a feature of the next war will be the raining of high explosives and poison gas upon the great cities." Civilian workers were proper targets of war, James M. Spaight admitted, but "their dwellings cannot be re- garded as a legitimate objective." War industries were where "victory and defeat will be achieved and suffered." He appealed to British air planners: Make machinery and not mankind the mark of your attack. Concentrate on the killing of machines rather than of men, and above all on killing them at source. Smash the machines and the machines which make the machines. Smash them-or silence them. Smash the turbines, the dyna- mos, the mighty steam presses, the mammoth steel hammers, which forge and fashion the instruments of destruction. Smash the whole me- tallic substructure of armed strength. Make the war of machinery im- possible. Air power can do that and air power can do it alone. Despite his pleas, Spaight believed that the precision necessary to attack these targets was not possible.32 The official doctrine of the RAF in 1928 was "to break down the ene- my's means of resistance by attacks on objectives selected as most likely to achieve this end." The targets included centers of production, transporta- tion, and communication. Destroying industries would not bring success, this doctrine surmised, but such bombing would crush the will of the workers. Any incidental loss of civilian life and property was acceptable,  Chapter 4 80 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine but the "indiscriminate bombing of a city for the sole purpose of terroriz- ing the civilian population" was "illegiti