pped their small bombs by hand, over the side, with no aiming devices. Scott took his inven- tion to France, where from 650 feet he dropped twelve out of fifteen bombs within 33 feet of the target at Villacoublay airdrome. His success won him a $27,500 Michelin prize and brought a bomb-aiming technology to Europe used by both sides in World War I.5 Scott's crude analog device provided a mechanical solution to the geo- metric problem of triangulation. The bombardier determined altitude, side AB of a right triangle, using an aneroid barometer marked in feet rather than in pounds of atmospheric pressure. He used a stopwatch to time the aircraft's movement over the ground during a period of time equal to the movement of the bombsight's telescope through a 45-degree arc. Next he determined ground speed and the distance on the ground, side BC, covered during the bomb's time of fall. Side AC, the line-of-sight dis- tance from the point of bomb release to the target, was the square root of the sum of the squares of sides AB and BC (see Figure 1.1). There were other factors Scott's bombsight did not consider. In a vacuum with no gravity, any bomb dropped would continue to travel with the dropping aircraft. Add gravity and the bomb would drop to earth on a parabolic, ballistic trajectory, at an acceleration of 32 feet per second per second. Add atmosphere and the bomb would fall short of the vacuum point T TRAIL E GROUND LEVEL AIR LAG ACTUAL RANGE GROUND LAG VACUUM RANGE WHOLE RANGE STILL AIR Figure 1.2 of impact due to air resistance. The difference between the vacuum point of impact and the atmosphere point of impact was trail (see Figure 1.2).6 Wind, however, complicated the bombsighting problem, causing the bomb to fall to the side of the line of sight to the target or the track of the aircraft across the ground. This difference between the actual trajectory under the influence of wind and the projected or normal trajectory was crosstrail. Bombing tests revealed the impor