g his bombsight while the aircraft to which it was fastened knocked about in the air. The C-4 also used a rotating prism to synchronize the movement of the sight's cross wire with the target. Extremely effective in calculating the proper range for bomb dropping, the Sperry sight's "deflection errors are so large [averaging 352 feet] as to be unsuitable for service use." It was awkward in operation, re- quiring the bombardier to turn the entire sight to indicate to the aircraft's pilot the amount of turn needed to line up on the target. With a small open circle at the center of the cross wires for sighting that subtended an area of nearly 400 feet on the ground at an altitude of 20,000 feet, the C-4 did not meet Army Air Corps needs for an accurate high-altitude bombsight. The Air Corps nevertheless purchased twenty-eight for con- tinued testing and installed some on service aircraft from 1933 to 1936.33 In an attempt to rescue the faltering Army bombsight program, Wright Field engineers pursued increased accuracy from a different angle. The minimizing of oscillation in yaw, pitch, and roll through gyroscopic stabili- zation had been the major achievement in bombsight development since World War I, but oscillation of the bomber aircraft had not been elimi- nated. Such movements would be the products of atmospheric effects or of human manipulation of the aircraft's control surfaces, as the pilot at- tempted to compensate for atmospheric conditions, for what might appear to be an incorrect bombing approach (a "gut" feeling or flying by the "seat of the pants"), or for survival instincts in the face of enemy defensive fire. Additionally, the bombardier had to convey flight instructions to the pilot to achieve the proper approach path to the target. According to Ted Barth, president of Carl L. Norden, Inc., "perhaps the most important advance in the art of precision bombing will have been accomplished when, through the use of automatic flight control, the bombardier will