825, including $575 in negotiated profit.20 With this money, supplemented by family funds, Norden continued to work privately on a better bombsight. In June 1922, BuOrd, impressed with Norden's progress, issued a contract worth $10,700 for three experi- mental models of his timing bombsight, designated the Mark XI.21 A year later, concerned that the project was too much for one man, especially a prima donna engineer who preferred to do most of his work in the abstract and was not the easiest person with whom to work, the Navy recom- mended that Norden link up with a more practical, more amenable engi- neer. The man they recommended was a former Army colonel who had made a name for himself as a man who could get things done. Theodore H. Barth was the son of an Austrian immigrant plumber. A self-made man, he worked his way through Stevens Technical School lighting gas lamps at Union Square in New York. With his training as an engineer and a practical knowledge of plumbing from his father, Barth be- came one of the first plumbing contractors to specialize in the new sky- scrapers sprouting in New York City. During World War I he joined the Army and at the rank of colonel was put in charge of gas-mask production. When the Navy brought Norden and Barth together in 1923, Barth made the perfect counterpart to Norden's isolated and intense genius. "In- finitely patient, charming, and notably kind," Barth's "ingratiating manner was that of a born politician." According to Norden's son, Barth never had an original thought-that was Norden's job. Barth provided the practical engineering and business skills that almost immediately proved productive, channeling Norden's talents. Norden called Barth his "partner and friend" whom he esteemed "very highly as an engineer, and to whom I have given Power of Attorney signifying entire confidence on my part." Barth de- scribed himself as "just a lathe hand gone Hollywood," although a close friend and Air Corps officer, Herbert A. Dargue,