gle gyroscope to re- place the earlier version's four, an electromechanical model with improved electrical contacts, and a single gyroscope model using all-electric servos. By 1915 the Sperry Company was selling commercial versions for $2,000 each and had completed military contracts with Great Britain and Italy. The project had cost the company $12,000.28 In April 1915 Elmer A. Sperry Sr. merged his son Lawrence's research into automatic flight control with his own work with sea torpedoes, initiat- ing research into unmanned flying bombs. In September 1916 the Navy agreed to fund development. After American entry into World War I, the Naval Consulting Board, with Sperry as a member, recommended the ac- celerated development of the aerial torpedo or remote-controlled aircraft for use against submarines. Navy Secretary Josephus Daniels allocated $200,000 in funding. Although bombsighting technology was not yet suf- ficiently accurate to hit submarines, somehow the board decided that an automatically piloted flying bomb could. The Navy provided Sperry with five N-9 seaplanes as testing platforms and contracted to buy six sets of automatic controls at $3,900 each. Curtiss Aircraft Company designed the aerial torpedo to carry a 1,000-pound bomb under the control of Sperry's mechanical pilot-a gyroscope con- nected to a servomotor to control the rudder and an aneroid barometer- servomotor combination to control the ailerons and horizontal rudder. A revolution counter connected to the propeller measured distance. Gyro- scopic stabilization kept the aircraft flying level. The system was crude and could not counter the effects of winds that tended to drive the craft off course. Trouble with the launching system delayed progress and the Navy forced Sperry to hire a former employee, Carl L. Norden, as a consulting engineer to develop a large flywheel catapult. By August 1917 the lateral and longitudinal controls worked, but the directional control was subject to "creep."29. F