model Mark XV to the Navy in September 1932. The Army received its first Norden, Army desig-  76 Chapter 4 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine nation M-1, in April 1933. Not including production, the Navy had paid between $30,000 and $40,000 to develop the Mark XV. It was clearly supe- rior to any bombsight in the world. Although the Navy was already moving toward dive bombing as the primary means of sinking ships, the arrival of the Norden Mark XV bombsight was especially fortuitous for the Army. While Norden did his mental calculations in Switzerland, Army airmen were slowly leading the Army Air Corps away from a close air support doctrine to one of strategic bombing. Technology would be wasted with- out a doctrine for using it, while doctrine would be empty thought without the technology to give it life. Ironically, those responsible for developing aerial doctrine between the wars did so based on inaccurate Mark I, D-4, and D-4B bombsights. The Norden bombsight was not available until after the doctrine based on accurate bombing was well on the way to for- mulation. The struggle to determine the proper use for the aerial weapon in war centered on Brig. Gen. Billy Mitchell, war hero and tempestuous prophet of air power. He saw civilians as "manufacturers of munitions" and there- fore the legitimate targets of bombing. Mitchell's belief that air power was the only military force capable of carrying war to the assembly lines, be- hind defending field armies and fleets, brought him into direct conflict with the Army and Navy. Initially Mitchell limited himself to an air strat- egy based on his wartime experiences, claiming as air power's primary ob- jective the "destruction of the hostile air force." In his 1921 book, Our Air Force: The Keystone of National Defense, he admitted that "whatever the fu- ture might hold, war was still a matter of defeating the enemy's armed forces." For the immediate future he saw the airplane in a tactical role, serving as A