have become incensed at the use of the Navy designation for the Victor Adding Machine-produced M-9B Norden bombsight installed in Bock's Car. And there is the compelling story of Mary Babnick Brown, who has claimed for nearly 50 years that Carl Norden used her "blonde hair, never bleached or touched with a hot iron, 34" long," to construct the cross hairs in his bombsight-Norden used etched glass.18 In the 1950s, at the height of the Cold War and with turbojets, radar, and nuclear weapons at the forefront of military technology, surplus Nor- den bombsights sold for as little as $24.50. Today, riding a wave of nostal- gia, a Norden bombsight in good condition sells for $8,000. It is time to examine the reality. Curtis LeMay tried to put the Norden bombsight in proper perspective: "In war the main idea is to get the bombs on the tar- gets."19 Easier said than done.  1 8 9 Dropping Projectiles from Aerial Crafts Means for Dropping Projectiles from Aerial Crafts hen Lt. Franz Uchatius used some 200 unmanned bal- loons to carry small bombs over Venice in 1849, accuracy was not critical. The attacking Austrians aimed at the mo- rale of the Venetians, not specific targets. Accuracy in- volved only the one-dimensional element of range error,1 the distance from the target, the city of Venice, to the actual point of bomb impact, measured along the ground track of the balloon. Uchatius attached burn- ing fuses to time the release of his bombs to solve the range problem, with most bombs falling short or long of the target. The wind determined the deflection error, or the distance from the target to the actual point of bomb impact, measured left or right of the track of the balloon on the ground. It was a simple, though not particularly accurate, bombsighting process. A few bombs fell on Venice, but most on the surrounding countryside. The Austrian army initiated a principle of air warfare that would guide air forces for the next 150 years: when the means and conditions for accu