d practiced with his sling to improve accuracy. The Romans wound cords around their javelins to give them spin and improve accuracy. In the age of gunpowder, gunsmiths added rifling to improve accuracy. Historians write about the importance of armor protection, mo- bility, range, and maneuver in achieving victory, but largely ignore the concern of accuracy. The development of the airplane provided armies with increased range and speed, but with decreased accuracy. Two generations of airmen strove between the world wars to improve accuracy because World War I had demonstrated the potential of air power, but also its underlying weakness. Without accuracy, air power was more bluster than power. In an atomic world, it seemed accurate bombing would never be the same. The awesome power of nuclear and thermonuclear bombs compen- sated for poor accuracy. In an earlier age the U.S. Army and Navy under- took bombsight research to make the airplane a weapon of war and devel- oped aerial strategies for winning wars based on their experiences with bombing accuracy. Motivated by the horrors of trench warfare in World War I; repulsed by the thought of targeting civilian population centers through area bombing; inspired by organizational drives for indepen- dence, strategic bombing being the only function of air power not tied directly to the Army or Navy; in pursuit of the "economy of force" prin- ciple of war ("it is only the hits ... that actually count"); and as historian Michael Sherry has shown, driven by a technological fanaticism, the ser- vices intended for precision bombing to sink ships and destroy an enemy's  4 Introduction 5 Introduction morale, not by terror, but by the cumulative effect of having its means of carrying on the conflict destroyed.6 For the Army this strategy evolved out of the antiwar atmosphere of the 1920s. From 1914 to 1918, 19 million human beings had died. The war killed 10 million soldiers and wounded 21 million, the majority in futile frontal cha