itory, but officials presumed the crashes had destroyed the bombsights. On February 25, 1942, however, an Army Air Forces B- 24 Liberator flying from Tobruk to Oran with personnel due leave in Eng- land ran low on fuel and landed in Spanish Morocco. The bombardier failed to destroy the aircraft's Norden bombsight. Franco's officials allowed the German consul to inspect the airplane and its contents before permit- 157 ting it to leave. The secret was out.24 Although the American military made an enormous effort to keep the secret, the German acquisition should have raised few fears. Germany would not only have great difficulty reproduc- ing it, but would have to change its air power doctrine, its training system, and the type of aircraft its industries were producing to take advantage of the Norden bombsight. Information began to flow more freely. Newsweek claimed Col. John P. Kenny, commandant of the Army Air Forces Bombardier School at Mid- land, Texas, first released the secret details of the Norden bombsight to John M. Mecklin of United Press International. Stars and Stripes told its readers that "there was no cause for alarm if the Axis captured some of the bombsights, because Axis scientists would require at least two years to duplicate the device." Science News Letter described the special qualifica- tions for Norden bombardier training in April 1943. Flying magazine re- vealed in July 1943 "one of the ancient but favorite jokes" about America's high-tech wonder: "Any time now, the Army is going to start giving com- missions to the bombsights and leave the bombardiers at home." Flying, without mentioning the Norden bombsight, also described in great detail the bombsighting problem and compared the merits of the timing and syn- chronous methods. Keith Ayling, in Bombardment Aviation, revealed that the Sperry and Norden bombsights were America's best and had to be de- stroyed when ditching.25 This secrecy extended especially to photographs. A generation of Ameri