n invasion of France, Roosevelt raised the expansion to 50,000 per year, sweeping away the General Staff's attempts to limit heavy bomber production. The president had decided to allow the Air Corps to try defeating America's enemies through daylight precision strategic bombing, which complied with his call on all nations not to "undertake the bombardment from the air of civilian populations." By the time of the Anglo-American ABC-1 agreement of March 27, 1941, the U.S. Army had agreed to an Air Corps strategic bombing attack "pri- marily against German military power at its source."34 Commander of the new Army Air Forces, Maj. Gen. Henry H. Arnold reinforced this role with a plan for fighting the air war, Air War Plans Division/1 or AWPD/1, in the fall of 1941. On July 9, 1941, President Roosevelt asked his armed services to project their weapons requirements for winning a possible war against "our potential enemies." Although the Army War Plans Division would handle the Army's projection, the newly established AWPD of the Army Air Forces was to present the Army Air Forces's requirements-an early sign of the independence Gen. George Marshall would grant the Army's air force during the war. Arnold's team-Lt. Col. Kenneth N. Walker, Maj. Haywood S. Hansell Jr., Maj. Laurence S. Kuter, and headed by Lt. Col. Harold L. George- met to decide what role the newly formed Army Air Forces would play in the war. They were in Washington precisely because they were of one mind with Arnold about the value of daylight strategic precision bombing. All had extensive contacts with ACTS, both as students and instructors.35 All had been critical to the formulation, testing, and teaching of the bomb- ing doctrine. All were opposed to attacks on morale: "Area bombing of cities may actually stiffen the resistance of the population." Hansell re- cruited captains Richard Hughes and Malcolm Moss, former businessmen with ties to Wall Street, to identify the industries of Germany and Japan th