edded in the military capabilities of advanced nations-is one that richly deserves its own book, a "volume two" to the present work which, one hopes, Professor McFarland will write. Just why is precision important? Is it just some shibboleth, some Holy Grail of war that lacks significance? Or is it the new face of war, an attri- bute of the combined aerospace and electronic revolutions of the past 50 years? In fact, precision has a profound influence on war. Hand in hand with precision weapons must be excellent intelligence and precision navi- gation, and the whole secured by reliable communications, and set in mo- tion by military leaders operating to realistic doctrine. Precision can offset the need for multiple strikes against the same target that characterized air operations in the Second World War, Korea, and Vietnam, and which resulted in literally thousands of aircraft falling victim to increasingly wary and prepared defenses. (Bridges are a notable ex- ample; bridge strikes often required dozens or even hundreds of sorties over several weeks or months to destroy a single bridge. In the Gulf War, forty-one bridges were dropped in two weeks by laser-guided munitions.) It also acts as a "force multiplier": it enables the attacker to do more with a lot less. A force of precision-strike airplanes, perhaps complemented by precision-guided "cruise" missiles, can attack simultaneously across an en- tire theater of conflict; these parallel attacks can undo in minutes an oppo- nent well equipped to confront more traditional sequential attacks directed against difficult targets. In the modern world, coupled with stealth tech- nology, it enables an attacker to slip undetected and unengaged into the very heart of an enemy's vital center, and deliver a decisive blow, no matter how prepared or otherwise alert the defender may be. On the opening night of the Gulf War, for example, a small number of F-117 stealth fighters armed with laser-guided bombs shattered Iraq's air de