l knob while checking on the target's po- sition through the bombsight and on the aircraft heading through a com- pass. A direct flexible coupling moved an arrow on the pilot's gauge, showing the direction of turn in 60-degree intervals, subtended at 30 de- grees. A gyroscope stabilized the D-1 in azimuth so it also could be used as a navigational aid. The bombardier had to operate both the bombsight and PDI independently.37 Carl Norden designed an improved PDI for the Navy for use with his Mark XI bombsight. It used the "asymptotic" method, where the bombar- dier turned the bombsight on its mount, while a gyroscope held the mount stable. A voltmeter measured the amount and direction of the turn through an electrical current passed from a brush on a resistor coil in the bomb-  Chapter 2 36 37 The Army's Pursuit of Precision Bombing sight. Being off course activated an electromagnet that caused the pilot's gauge to precess in the correct direction. The bombardier could concen- trate on his bombsight, the pilot receiving constant course information automatically.38 Automatic PDIs represented a significant advance in technology, but still relied on communication between the bombardier and the pilot, with the pilot making course adjustments with little precision. Many pilots ob- jected to PDIs because they interfered with their prerogatives-pilots wanted to fly by the seat of their pants. Some means had to be found for the bombardier to fly the aircraft directly through his bombsight. The PDI also did nothing to eliminate aircraft oscillation. Lawrence Sperry's pioneering work in automatic flight control laid the groundwork for the development of a true automatic pilot capable of con- trolling pitch, roll, and yaw through a bombsight. Sperry Gyroscope of Brooklyn and General Electric of Schenectady, New York, administered the U.S. Army's development projects. General Electric's version first flew successfully in April 1929. Although the Air Corps judged its operation "q