. High-altitude daylight precision strategic bombing may not have been that accurate, but it was all the Air Corps had.29 One spectacular success at the expense of the Navy restored Air Corps faith in its doctrine of precision bombing. In August 1937 Lt. Col. Robert Olds's 2nd Bombardment Group and Lt. Col. George C. Stratemeyer's 7th Bombardment Group, with thirty-four B-10s, seven B-17s, and three B- 18s, participated in Joint Air Exercise No. 4, calling for Navy patrol bomb- ers to locate and Army land-based bombers to bomb the USS Utah with Navy water-filled practice bombs off the coast of California. At 1557 hours on August 12 the Navy found the battleship, but signaled the Army an incorrect location. The Army launched forty-one bombers that never found the Utah. The next day, commanding general Delos C. Emmons refused to wait for Navy trackers to locate the Utah again and launched his B-17s and B-18s for a long-range search. The formation's navigator, Curtis LeMay, headed for the ship's last known position, after adjusting for another erroneous position report from the Navy. With only 12 minutes left before the 1200 hours deadline for the exercise, the B-17s dropped below the overcast at 400 feet to bomb a Utah caught unawares. The Navy reported "at least one and not more than two hits per plane as they dropped in train" with several more near misses. On August 14, the Navy demanded another effort, insisting the Utah could have evaded the bombs if it had seen the B-17s in clearer weather. This time the entire Air Corps bomber force found the maneuvering Utah and bombed from 8,000 to 18,000 feet, achieving thirty-seven direct hits, spread along the battleship's entire 500-foot length, 23 percent of all bombs dropped. Forty-seven more fell within 50 feet of the ship, close enough to have a water-hammer effect. In two days of bombing, the Air Corps, using the Navy's Norden bombsight, had achieved a hit rate on a ship underway at sea of 11.9 percent.30 Bombing tes