he effects of wind, and deflection. Squadron VB-4 tested the experimental Aiming Angle Sight, Mark I, against moving targets and concluded that it did "not afford a complete solution of the dive-bombing problem but it does correct for variations in angle of dive and incorporates a warning light to indicate when the proper release altitude is reached." The Mark I achieved 64 percent hits on a maneuvering target, only mar- ginally more than the gun sight without the Sperry computer, gyroscope, and altimeter.3 Four years of modifications brought little progress and in April 1941 BuAer Chief Rear Adm. John H. Towers canceled the Mark I Aiming Angle Sight project. "In view of the slight improvement in bombing per- formance, the restrictions inherent in its use, and the installation difficult- ies involved, it is recommended that none of these sights be procured but that a more vigorous effort be made to perfect the Aiming Angle Sight Mark II."4 Using $32,000 of National Industrial Recovery Act funds, BuOrd con- tracted with Carl L. Norden, Inc., on January 2, 1934, for a stabilized dive- bombing sight, the Aiming Angle Sight, Mark II, in cooperation with the Army. Norden spent two years in Zurich working on the mathema- tical equations of dive bombing and their mechanical analogs, mailing blueprints to the New York Norden plant in the diplomatic pouches of America's Zurich embassy. His company delivered an experimental version to the Dahlgren Naval Proving Ground in late 1936.5 Testing revealed shortcomings: "Angles of vision are too small and the resulting steep angles of dive required did not give the pilot sufficient time in dives to compensate for the total amount of drift involved." The baro- metric altimeter gave readings that lagged considerably behind the actual altitude-a dangerous quality considering the speeds aircraft approached the ground in a dive. Norden's design had promise over the Sperry design because, after entering the dive, adjustments were automati