efense, he admitted that "whatever the fu- ture might hold, war was still a matter of defeating the enemy's armed forces." For the immediate future he saw the airplane in a tactical role, serving as America's "first line of defense."21 Mitchell's 1923 "Notes on the Multi-Motored Bombardment Group Day and Night" marked a transition in his thinking, completed in his 1925 book Winged Defense. A powerful, independent strategic air force must strike at an enemy's vitals. "Offensive aviation," he wrote, could "force a decision before the ground troops or sea forces could join in battle." For Mitchell "the hostile main army in the field is a false objective and the real objectives are the vital centers." He saw nothing wrong with attacking cities, the "vital centers," because wars would be completed more quickly and democratically (attacks on the people in common), which would be for the benefit of all-"more humane than the present methods of blowing up people to bits by cannon projectiles or butchering them with bayonets." 77 By attacking an enemy's "centers of production of all kinds, means of trans- portation, agricultural areas, ports and shipping," American air power could destroy the enemy's "means of making war" and paralyze govern- mental and industrial functions. Losses would decrease not only because of immediate civilian demands for peace, but because war would again be- come a battle between small forces of professional military men instead of the mass civilian-soldier armies of modern times.22 Mitchell recognized the need for precision bombing, identifying ships, railroad centers, canals, forts, and supply dumps as targets. Bombers would not need precision, however, to attack cities "to intimidate the civilian pop- ulation" and "to act as an arm of reprisal." He expected international con- ferences to outlaw the bombing of cities, but argued that "the destruction of manufacturing centers and material brings the conflict to a quicker ter- mination. Thus, manufa