tionship with Theodore H. Barth, president of Carl L. Norden, Inc.6 Together these men strove to perfect the doctrine of daylight precision strategic bombing. Where Mitchell had emphasized the morale effects of bombing, ACTS concentrated on the material effects. Both agreed that the specific objective of bombing was to destroy an enemy's will to resist. Mitchell believed this could be accomplished by intimidation through the threat of bombing or of direct attacks on civilians. The young ACTS offi- cers believed they could destroy the enemy's ability to resist by attacking the "vital objects of a nation's economic structure that will tend to paralyze the nation's ability to wage war and . .. the hostile will to resist."7 According to Donald Wilson, critical in this "fundamental change in military strategy; perhaps unique for modern times," was "fear and igno- rance." Wilson's lack of higher education and ignorance of proper research allowed him to "avoid a great waste of time in looking for material ex- pounding the new idea." Out of this difficulty came the "excitement and the zeal" that made his efforts a "crusade." For Wilson the lesson was clear-because of the nature of modern warfare, so dependent on indus- trial production, the target for strategic bombing must be the industrial ability of an enemy to wage war. Because of the traditional American oppo- sition to attacking civilians or nonmilitary targets, this bombing would be aimed not directly at the enemy's will, but at the machines and industries that supported both that will and its military defenses. The destruction of an enemy's industries would destroy an enemy's will to resist because the enemy would no longer be capable of resisting.8 Like Sherman, Wilson believed air forces would not have to attack all of an enemy's industries because every industrial economy had certain choke- points, the destruction of which would cause the economic system, and therefore the nation, to break down. These critical in