g first aid, and managing the oxygen supply. Some also attended a ten- week "bombing through overcast" course to train for radar bombing.11 Entry requirements for bombardier school included a high school di- ploma and successful completion of the General Classification, Physics, and Mechanical Aptitude Tests, taken at one of three replacement training centers, later called preflight schools. A wartime book identified a bombar- dier as "cool-headed, a deft and expert mathematician, capable of split- second reactions and complete concentration." At preflight school aviation cadets received basic military instruction, including physical training, aca- demic instruction, map reading, aircraft recognition, radio instruction, drill, and military courtesy. This program required four weeks until March 1942, nine weeks until May 1944, and then ten weeks.12 Training was rigorous. In five classes at Childress Army Air Field, 647 graduated from 777 entering, or an 83 percent graduation rate. The elimi- nation rate was significantly higher than the 3 percent at the Eagle Pass advanced single-engine fighter pilot training program, though ironically pilot training washouts were a primary source for bombardiers during the war.13 The United States needed one bombardier for every five pilots, but only one out of eighteen cadets in training requested bombardier school. As one bombardier put it, "When you're only one of the hired hands, who's being carried along to do the dirty work, to drop the bombs and do the killing, you don't feel so good about it." The Army Air Forces always had a hard time finding volunteers for bombardier training because the lot of the bombardier in the war was not good. Sitting in the nose of a bomber,  154 Chapter 9 155 The Young Men behind Plexiglas surrounded by clear plexiglas, he was the most exposed of all crewmen. Wartime statistics showed that of the positions in a heavy bomber, bom- bardiers experienced the greatest number of casualties.14 A major ob