ining were possible, would have to come from war. World War II powered bombing trainer. The bombardier sighted his Norden bombsight on a powered "crab" target. The movement of the trainer across the ground simulated the movement of the aircraft and the movement of the "crab" target simulated the effect of wind causing the aircraft to "crab" or drift relative to the target. (Source: USAF Historical Research Agency.)  Midland Army Air Field Bombing Range. Bombing such targets as this trained thousands of bombardiers for combat and continually proved the capabilities of the Norden and Sperry bombsights. No such targets, so clearly marked, isolated, and defenseless, existed in Germany, Japan, or Italy. (Source: USAF Historical Research Agency.) IDI The unveiling of "Uncle Sam's Number One military secret." By 1943 combat losses made certain that the Axis nations had captured the Norden bombsight, freeing the American public and 100,000 American bombardiers from security restrictions. (Source: Norden Systems Division.) Americans could not read about the Norden bombsight, but they could sing about how bombardiers would make the world free (lyric by Lorenz Hart, music by Richard Rodgers, 1942) and chuckle with glee at its fabled accuracy (Collier's, September 26, 1942). The BOMBARDIER SONG · LORENZ HART Beechcraft AT-11 bombing trainer. The Norden stabilizer mount is protected from prying eyes in the nose, while trainees stand ready to board, two carrying the Norden bombsight from its protective vault. (Source: National Air and Space Museum.) "Was that address 106 Leipzigerstrasse of 107 **  MUNICH MILE SCAN BMW FCTY AND TANK WKS AREA ALLAGH A/C ENGINE FCTY Air Corps problem No. 1-bombing through overcast: "One place was about as good as another." B-17s dropping four-pound incendiaries through 10/10 overcast/undercast on Kiel, December 13, 1943. (Source: National Air and Space Museum.) + R M/Y W AREA BLANKED SECTOR DACHAU A/D AND FCTY AREA BLMW METAL WKS. AREA RR WKSHOF AR