ntific Corporation of Chicago for eighty redesigned Estoppey D-4s. Lacking a pilot direction indicator and an AFCE (automatic flight control equipment) link, the D-4B proved inade- quate for modern aircraft. Gaertner modified it to handle faster speeds and higher altitudes and the Army Air Forces contracted with the National Cash Register Company of Dayton, Ohio, to manufacture 15,000 of the newly designated D-8s at $200 each immediately after Pearl Harbor. In head-to-head tests the D-8 achieved three hits out of fifty bombs dropped, compared to forty-eight out of fifty for the Norden bombsight. With pro- duction running at 2,000 per month, but aware of its limitations, the Army Air Forces ordered it installed only "in airplanes for which no other sight is available."2 The British-designed Mark XIV (T-1 in American use) was another in- terim bombsight. Developed by the Royal Air Force, the stabilized vector sight minimized bombardier adjustments and allowed evasive action dur- ing the bombing run. The New York Times called it a "shotgun" sight, as opposed to the American Norden "rifle" sight. The Royal Air Force sought Mark XIV manufacturing support from Canada and the United States and asked that the Army Air Forces equip all lend-lease aircraft des- tined for Great Britain with American-built Mark XIVs. AC Spark Plug Division of General Motors, Flint, Michigan, began production in May 1942 and by war's end had manufactured 23,000. The Mark XIV/T-1 equipped British Wellingtons, Lancasters, Mosquitoes, and Halifaxes and American B-25s, B-26s, B-17s, B-24s, PBYs, and A-20s in British use.3 The D-8 and T-1 bombsights were stopgap solutions. Unable to meet Army Air Forces needs, the Navy finally but only momentarily agreed to allow the Army to seek its own sources for Norden bombsight production at a Washington meeting on January 8, 1942. Navy Secretary Frank Knox certified the agreement in a letter to Secretary of War Henry Stimson on January 18, 1942, and promised to