ty to finance the publication of books. Norden's genius expressed itself in the simple and systematic way in which he worked. He "liked always to start with a blank sheet of paper rather than first ascertaining what others had done. He was never satisfied with a solution, but tried to develop as many solutions as he could find and then chose the simplest and cleanest." Norden did all of his own drafting, with a skill and quality that over 50 years later still attracted admiration from his former employees. He had no extensive library, relying on his slide rule, a book of engineering tables, and a few basic manuals. He de- signed the Saratoga and Lexington's arresting gear on a dining room table. Norden did much of the creative work for his famous bombsight during months spent in Zurich, Switzerland, at his mother's home. His military employers never liked the threat to security that Norden's penchant for work at home and in Switzerland caused, but Norden told his son he had to go where the "Navy couldn't bother me." Although dedi- cated to his family, Norden also considered it a distraction, routinely ship- ping his wife and children to Switzerland while he worked in New York. His favorite place for creative thinking in the United States was the Neth- erlands Club in Brooklyn, where he would sit for hours staring into space, lost in thought. He was never absentminded; his prodigious powers of con- centration allowed him to ignore everything around him in his endeavor to solve problems. In Norden's view, security was not a consideration because so much of his work was mental. Norden recorded his ideas on paper and blueprints only to communicate with others. From Zurich these records traveled to New York by diplomatic courier, after the Navy asked the State Depart- ment to treat Norden with kid gloves because of "his work of the utmost value."18 The Navy accepted this working arrangement because "Old Man Dynamite" left it no choice. Henry Arnold, chief of the Army Air