ut of the countries" by bombing choke-points. De- stroying chemical factories would stop shell production and bombing en- gine and magneto factories would stop aircraft production. Concentrating all aerial forces on each target until destroyed would not only eliminate Germany's ability to wage war, but also crush the morale of German work- ers. Although Gen. John Pershing approved Gorrell's plan, opposition from Expeditionary Force headquarters, insufficient aircraft, 41 and inade- quate accuracy thwarted Gorrell's plan. The tactical head of the Air Service in Europe, Brig. Gen. William "Billy" Mitchell, considered a modification of the plan, to employ incendiaries and poison gas against German forests and livestock. 42 The one major American bombing campaign of the war was the Meuse- Argonne offensive, where American-manned Breguet 14 B-2 bombers at- tacked railroad stations, trains, troop concentrations, ammunition dumps, and airdromes. The intent was to disrupt the flow of enemy troops and supplies into the region. Although official American policy was precision bombing of individual targets, airmen made the "frank admission . . . that accuracy is limited and a given area is covered in the hope that enough bombs will strike the target proper to accomplish the mission." Com- manders developed the technique of "drop-on-the-leader" bombing to im- prove accuracy, where the entire formation dropped its bombs when the leader fired the "six-green" signal and dropped his bombs. Flooding the target with bombs increased the otherwise small chances of achieving a hit. The largest American bombing mission of the war was against a railroad target at Montmedy on November 4, 1918, when thirty-seven aircraft dropped 8,500 pounds of bombs. The attackers achieved no hits on the target, but damaged a granary, a vegetable storehouse, two private houses, a repair shed, and a hospital. American airman Capt. Bruce Hopper claimed bombing accuracy was only "occasional."43 In all, America