mpires credited aircraft with one destroyer sunk, two de- stroyers and a tender disabled, and one aircraft carrier damaged.58 By 1926 air power had become an essential ingredient in all Navy exer- cises. Joint Army-Navy Problem No. 3 of October 2, 1926, focused on the use of aircraft to defend the Hawaiian Islands. In May 1927 the Taylor Board, called to review the status of naval aviation, assigned aircraft to help the fleet's battle line, but also to undertake offensive operations away from the battle line. For the 1928 exercises, naval aircraft attacked both aircraft carriers and battleships.59  67 To Sink Ships 66 Chapter 3 By the 1930s the aircraft had won a critical position in naval strategy, but the Navy was not yet sure how to sink enemy ships from the air. The torpedo bomber appeared to be the most deadly, but most vulnerable to defensive fire. The dive bomber was the most accurate with minimal vul- nerability, but the least deadly. Horizontal bombers were the least vulner- able, but the most inaccurate, despite 10 years of bombsight research and development at a cost of $426,578. These gleaming, silver-winged bombers were but toothless marvels of American technological prowess without bombsights or tactics to aim their bombs accurately. Norden's expertise in the 1930s would be the key to solving the bombsighting problem for the Army and for Navy patrol bombers, while the early experiments with dive bombing promised a solu- tion for the Navy's problem of sinking ships from the air. Complicating these concerns was a technological revolution that prom- ised geometric leaps in the capabilities of aircraft. A series of break- throughs in aviation technology gave physical capability to what had begun as an idea. Initially the radial engine gave light weight with efficient cool- ing, the supercharger allowed greater altitude, flaps provided increased lift on takeoff without increased drag in flight, the variable pitch hydraulic propeller increased efficiency bot