sion target Targets that, to be destroyed, require either a direct hit by a bomb of the proper size or a hit within a limited distance therefrom. Radial error Direct linear distance from the target to the point of bomb impact. Range Distance measured on the ground from the point directly under an air- craft to the target or point of bomb detonation along the proper deflection track Range angle Angle formed by line of sight to target and vertical line from air- craft to ground at the time of bomb release. Range error The distance from a given point of impact, or from the mean point of impact of a pattern of bombs, to the center of the target, measured paral- lel to the direction of approach (along the ground track of the aircraft). Often given as range error probable (REP), which was .845 times the arithmetic mean range error. Roll Movement of an airplane around its longitudinal axis (from nose to tail). S-1 bombsights Army designation for Sperry synchronous bombsights. Salvo At the time of release, dropping all bombs instantaneously from an air- plane. Saturation bombing Dropping a number of bombs from a formation of bomb- ers to achieve a relatively uniform distribution for the purpose of saturating a tar- get to improve the probabilities of achieving a hit. Also known as carpet bomb- ing. See Pattern bombing. SBAE (Stabilized Bombing Approach Equipment) Navy term for gyroscopically stabilized automatic pilot designed to manipulate aircraft controls through the bombsight in order to maintain level flight during the bombing run. See AFCE. Sighting angle The angle formed by the line of sight to target and a vertical line from the aircraft to the ground. Slant range Straight-line distance from aircraft to target. Synchronous technique Turning of a wheel or gear in a bombsight mecha- nism to match the movement of the aircraft over a fixed point on the ground. Measurement of the movement of an aircraft relative to a fixed point on the ground. Tamping Filling in above an