by clear plexiglas, he was the most exposed of all crewmen. Wartime statistics showed that of the positions in a heavy bomber, bom- bardiers experienced the greatest number of casualties.14 A major obstacle to efficient bombardier training was the security sur- rounding the Norden bombsight. Trainees spent hours both learning the proper procedures for guarding it and being indoctrinated with its capabil- ities. A wartime article in the New Yorker revealed the feelings of many young Americans exposed to America's greatest secret weapon before the appearance of the atomic bomb. The more I found out about the bomb sight, the more ingenious and inhuman it seemed. It was something bigger, I kept thinking, than any one man was intended to comprehend. I ended up with a conviction, which I still have, that a bombardier can't help feeling inferior to his bomb sight.15 Another bombardier spoke of the Norden bombsight as a collection of knobs and setscrews, lenses, and cross hairs. . . . It was all right, no more. But, Oh, God, it was magic. ... This . . . is the Norden Bombsight. You will use it. You will guard its central component with your life and destroy it if your plane was hit. It is the chief secret appara- tus of this government-no this nation. It will wipe out Nazi and Japa- nese expansionism and clean the world of dictators. In your hands, it will do miracles. From thirty thousand feet you can obliterate anything you can see. Your training has equipped you for no earthly purpose but to handle this weapon.16 Secrecy and such mystical views continued as obstacles to training until the secretary of war declared on November 18, 1942, an easing of security restrictions because the Norden bombsight had fallen into enemy hands. Before the war, with access to the device limited to several hundred career officers, security was mainly a matter of good paperwork. When tens of thousands of civilians rushed into bombardier and'bombsight maintenance training beginning in 1940, s