d bombs. Sending bombers with their highly trained crews into the teeth of enemy defenses just to miss their targets made little economic sense when a B-17 cost $187,000 ($1.2 mil- lion in 1992 dollars), a B-24 $215,000 ($1.4 million in 1992 dollars), and a B-29 $509,000 ($3.3 million in 1992 dollars).ยบ The Navy realized the cost was too great, the accuracy too poor, and abandoned the Norden bomb- sight in favor of dive bombing. Against Germany in World War II the U.S. Army Air Forces stayed with high-altitude Norden-directed bombing in the face of heavy losses, rarely resorting to area bombing. Against Japan, in the face of light losses but insufficient results, it rejected precision bombing in favor of area bombing, both to destroy the Japanese ability to resist and to terrorize the population, culminating in the atomic bombings. The American experience against Germany proved the limitations of the Norden technology and the doctrine of war based on it. Such bombing could not win wars single-handedly, but could hasten their end. Against Japan the American experience proved that if a nation attacked population targets, killing enough civilians, then strategic bombing could end a war. Or so it seemed. The general in command of the bombing of Japan, Curtis LeMay, even with mass area fire-bombing raids and atomic weapons, still saw bombing as aimed at industrial targets. He struck Kyoto from the list of possible targets for an atomic bomb because it "wasn't much of a mili- tary target ... bombing people gets you nowhere-it's just not profit- able."10 One thing for sure-nuclear weapons destroyed the moral high ground of the American way of air war based on accurate, precision bomb- ing. Army plans to attack the machines of war, not the people of war, gave way to killing the machines and the people of war. The ugliness, confusion, doubt, and discomfort of the Cold War and its nuclear bombs replaced the confidence, principles, and convictions of World War II and its preci