s work at McCook Field under the direction of Charles F. Kettering of Delco. Unlike the Navy and Sperry beginning with controls and then designing an aircraft around them, the Army and Kettering began with a successful aircraft and then tried to build a control system for it. Using guidance systems provided by Sperry, Kettering designed a smaller, simpler aircraft, the "Liberty Eagle," built by Kettering's Dayton Wright Airplane Company, carrying a 185- pound bomb,31 powered by a 37-hp Ford engine, costing about $400. The wings were doped muslin and paper, the fuselage cardboard, costing about $75. By the end of the war the "Kettering Bug," as it was popularly known, was flying nearly 40 miles, but the influence of wind and the continuing directional problem limited accuracy. By March 1920 the project had cost $275,000.32 Trouble with the launcher convinced the Air Service to contract with Lawrence Sperry in April 1920 to develop a larger aerial torpedo. The Army wanted a cruise missile and was willing to spend $66,000 for the contract, $3,000 per month for expenses, and up to $50,000 in perfor- mance bonuses. High technology was expensive.33 Sperry used a new mate- rial, duralumin, and equipped his aircraft with air-powered automatic con- trols.34 Problems with engines, duralumin construction techniques, sluggish controls, and vacuum leaks delayed progress. By March 1921 the torpedo was making successful flights, though the old problem of direc- tional control forced Sperry to resort to radio control from an escorting aircraft. The Air Service objected, citing the contract wording that the de- vice was to allow "automatic flight without manual control." An arbitration board ruled that radio control was not manual. In March 1922 a torpedo flew 63 miles and made a direct hit on its target, but required eighteen radio corrections from the chase aircraft. The Air Service certified Sperry's contract for payment in November 1922.35 Sperry shipped the completed aerial tor