g B-17s and B-24s a degree of protection from German fighters because of their overlapping fields of fire. Each formation would fly straight to their targets from the initial point, approximately 10 minutes, rather than maneuvering to avoid flak, giving bombardiers plenty of time to synchronize their bombsights. The arrival of the C-1 automatic flight control equipment (AFCE) in early 1943 in- sured a straight and level approach.14 With all aircraft flying in a fixed formation, however, bombardiers were unable to aim their loads individually. LeMay's solution was "dropping- on-the-leader," by which a lead bombardier aimed the bombs of the entire formation. The combat box maintained proper positioning, following the leader to the target. The other bombardiers released their bombs either after receiving a radio cue from the lead bombardier or a visual cue from a flare or from seeing the lead's bombs drop.15 In larger formations the lead bombardier maneuvered to bring the formation over the target, but deputy lead bombardiers determined the proper drop point. Eighth Air Force's Operational Research Section recommended that one bombardier should calculate both, leaving individual bombardiers to serve as "toggliers," flicking the bomb-release toggle switch upon signal from the leader.16 Carl Norden had designed his bombsight to minimize human involve- ment and human error, but dropping-on-the-leader forced the human back into the procedure. Eighth Air Force discovered that the technique caused combat boxes to overshoot the target, especially when tail winds increased ground speeds. Larger formations of several combat boxes tended to undershoot. At 185 MPH, a delay of one second caused a bomb to drop 270 feet beyond the target. The lead bombardier therefore had to override his Norden bombsight and drop early or late to compensate. Guesswork had replaced the mechanical precision of Norden's analog computer in daylight precision strategic bombing. Bombing patterns on the gr