ngly, the Army Air Forces's Armament Laboratory at Wright Field concluded in 1941 that the "largest error in aerial bombing is due to errors in the determination of the altitude (absolute) of the airplane." In 1941 Western Electric and General Electric perfected the SCR-518A pulse radar system for measuring altitude up to 20,000 feet. Although it was still heavy and expensive, the Army ordered 8,000 in 1941. By 1943 engineers had reduced the weight from 100 to 30 pounds using smaller, more powerful vacuum tubes. At the end of the war the SCR-718 series pulse radar altimeter could gauge accurate altitudes up to 50,000 feet.' Bombsight designers knew bombs did not drop in a vacuum, as air resistance acted to slow the bomb, reducing range and increasing time of fall. Air resistance also depended on the temperature, humidity, local atmospheric pressure, speed of the falling bomb (resistance or drag increases relative to the speed of the object), and the ballistics of the bomb (shape, size, weight, and condition of the bomb's surface). The bomb range was less than in a vacuum and the difference between the two ranges (in a vacuum and in the atmosphere) was trail. Technicians deter- mined trail by experimentation or trials. The Army used the Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland and the Navy the Dahlgren Naval Proving Ground in Vir- ginia to drop bombs under different conditions, extrapolating common values to develop a bombing table that would provide the trail amount for a specific bomb, at a specific speed, under specific atmospheric conditions. Wind either directly into or directly behind the falling bomb was a range factor generally ignored, because the wind would have the same influence on the airplane. The calculation of the ground speed of the aircraft compensated for the influence of wind. This was why most early bombsights required a bomb run directly up- or downwind, translating the influences of the wind into a factor that could be negated with adjustments for a