rden Laboratories moved to White Plains, New York. The Veterans Administration took over Norden's two buildings in New York at 80 Lafayette Street and 50 Varick Street. Carl Norden retired and left these companies in the hands of Ted Barth, who soon retired to concentrate on philanthropic activities and politics.7 The Barden Corporation maintained its precision ball- bearing plant at Danbury, Connecticut.8 Norden Laboratories merged with the Ketay Instrument Company of New York in 1955 to become Norden-Ketay Corporation, purchased by United Aircraft Corporation on July 1, 1958, renamed the Norden Division. Under these names it pro- duced a variety of precision instruments and systems in support of the Cold War, including digital converters, pressure transducers, airborne radar. bomber director and navigation systems, synchros, servomotors, potenti- ometers, amplifiers, flight instruments, television photo-reconnaissance systems for jet-powered aircraft, a terrain clearance radar for low-flying aircraft, optical systems for star tracker applications, and guidance and control systems for missiles. These represented a significant shift to elec- tronics and alternating current from the mechanical engineering and di- rect current of Carl Lukas Norden, as well as a geographical shift from New York to Norwalk, Connecticut. In 1966 Norden Division became a major military contractor when it won a contract to build the revolutionary heads-up vertical and integrated cockpit display for the F-111. The contract nearly destroyed the company. Norden bid $132 million for a project that cost $357 million. The U.S. Air Force reduced its order from 761 systems to 210 to stay within budget, but refused to pay Norden more than $245 million. The company ab- sorbed the additional $112 million in cost overruns.9 As the Cold War wound down, military contracts ran out. One notable exception was the JSTARS battlefield surveillance system that, although rushed into battle with Norden technicia