t with Norden was legal, but the production contracts were not. The Navy went around these restrictions by relying in part on Section 10(k), which allowed negotiated bids with developers if the experimental item was "considered to be the best kind." Section 10(q), however, limited such considerations to equipment designed before the passage of the act, which limited the use of 10(k) to justify the closed contracts with Carl L. Norden, Inc. Additionally, Section 10(t) required the services to award contracts to the "lowest responsible bidder" in all cases.39 Section 10(p) of the Air Corps Act stated that "any collusion, under-  60 Chapter 3 To Sink Ships standing, or arrangement to deprive the United States Government of the benefit of full and free competition ... shall be unlawful [and punishable with] a fine of not exceeding $20,000, or to be imprisoned not exceeding five years, or both, at the discretion of the court." The secretary of the Navy went where the secretary of the Army feared to tread. Another justification for the Navy's procurement policies was "national security." Besides Norden's patent liability problems, the Navy held the patent on the Mark XI because private individuals were unable to hold security-classified patents. The Navy refused to allow the U.S. Patent Of- fice to release the Mark XI patent until 1947. This procedure gave Norden protection for his proprietary rights and, violating the will of Congress, protected Norden from liability, maintained the security of the device, and kept Norden and the Navy's procurement policies away from congres- sional eyes. The Navy classified the project "secret" and justified its pro- curement policies, its acceptance of liability, and its handling of the Nor- den patent by claiming "national security" concerns. Because no one could see the patent application or the contracts signed with Norden, no one could charge patent infringement or charge violation of procurement pro- cedures, and Norden would be g