forcing the Army to purchase 230 D-4s for use in various aircraft over the next five years. Needing a low-altitude sight to replace the Mark III, the Navy purchased forty D-4s at the reduced price of $273 each. Gaertner also sold the D-4 to foreign governments.20 Wright Field tried to improve the Estoppey designs. The D-5 used dif- ferent optics to eliminate parallax, an illuminated reticle for night bomb- ing, and a synchronous target-following system. The Army's first true syn- chronous bombsight, the D-5 required the bombardier to rotate the sight's wheels and gears at a speed that matched the movement of the aircraft across a fixed point on the ground. Synchronizing the movement of the  32 Chapter 2 33 The Army's Pursuit of Precision Bombing D-5's internal mechanism with the ground speed of the aircraft held great promise, but provided worse accuracy than the D-4. The Air Corps rec- ommended "that no further experimental work be done on the D-5 Sight" until other sights under development were tested.21 The D-722 of 1931 was the most advanced of the Estoppey models, allowing the bombardier to signal the pilot to turn the aircraft during the bomb run by turning the bombsight. It incorporated an automatic bomb release, stabilization, and illuminated cross wires to allow use day and night. Although an excellent bomb-aiming device, it was superseded by a new generation of sights.23 Georges Estoppey provided the Army with several hundred bombsights of limited capabilities and with litigation covering nearly two decades. In 1924 Estoppey began demanding royalty payments for his inventions. Air Service chief Maj. Gen. Mason Patrick refused to pay royalties for devices designed while Estoppey was on the government payroll. His contract al- lowed him royalties of 7.5 percent up to a maximum of $7,500, but only after he left government service. This he did in July 1926, with the promise that royalties would be due him for any of his inventions procured after his separation