y evolved out of the antiwar atmosphere of the 1920s. From 1914 to 1918, 19 million human beings had died. The war killed 10 million soldiers and wounded 21 million, the majority in futile frontal charges against multiple layers of fetid trenches, "springy like a mattress because of all the bodies underneath,"7 protected by barbed wire, machine guns, and rapid-firing artillery. Jacques Meyer described it as "a spectral semi-conscious life, interrupted only by the eruption of danger: sudden attacks, periodic bombardments, the insidious accumulation of gas in gullies and hollows, machine-guns discovered by surprise-everything overwhelmed the footsoldier . . . the eternal fame of Verdun-as hell, cre- ated as much by misery as by danger."8 To military men the immediate postwar challenge was to insure the next war would not be a repeat of trench warfare. In Germany the answer was blitzkrieg. In the United States the Army's air arm proposed a revolutionary solution. It seemed so simple-use aircraft to fly over an enemy's army and navy and strike directly at a nation's heart. It made sense-avoid a nation's strength and strike at the vulnerable industrial complexes at the center of modern warfare. It was a solution deceptively easy to advocate, but one that presented prodigious difficulties to those assigned to carry it out. Constructing a bomber to carry bombs to the targets was one major obsta- cle, another was developing a bombsight to aim the bombs to hit the targets. The critical component of this new form of warfare was the Norden bombsight and associated equipment, with which the Army and Navy hoped to achieve the bombing accuracy necessary to destroy an enemy's industrial fabric and sink its ships. Accuracy was the key-achieving the desired results with the fewest wasted bombs. Sending bombers with their highly trained crews into the teeth of enemy defenses just to miss their targets made little economic sense when a B-17 cost $187,000 ($1.2 mil- lion in 1992 dollar