o treat Norden with kid gloves because of "his work of the utmost value."18 The Navy accepted this working arrangement because "Old Man Dynamite" left it no choice. Henry Arnold, chief of the Army Air Corps, was aghast to learn of these working arrangements in the late 1930s. During a tour of the Brooklyn Norden plant in 1939, an Army inspector informed him of the Navy's ar- rangements and of Norden's continuing Dutch citizenship. Arnold fired off a letter to the chief of the Navy's Bureau of Aeronautics (BuAer): "It seems to me that it brings up what may prove a very serious situation. If Mr. Norden does consider himself at liberty to go to a foreign country and build equipment, some of our secret projects undoubtedly will be jeopard- ized." Arnold warned that Norden himself had told the Army inspector that he had sold out his interests in the company to his partner and had given the inspector "the impression that he considers himself now a free- will agent as regards the disposition of any brain children he has or may have had" and "that he could work for anyone." The Navy refused to 89  54 Chapter 3 To Sink Ships change its obviously productive relationship with Norden, but did request the Federal Bureau of Investigation provide bodyguards for Norden and infiltrate the Norden plant to root out any threats to the facility's security.19 This was the man who recommended that the Navy drop the Mark III-A and contract with him to build an entirely new timing sight, using a clock to determine the closing speed between the aircraft and the target. Norden began work on the new sight in November 1921, without funding, while he worked on a pilot direction indicator (PDI) for the Mark III-A, completed in January 1922. The Navy ordered three of these devices, pay- ing Norden $1,825, including $575 in negotiated profit.20 With this money, supplemented by family funds, Norden continued to work privately on a better bombsight. In June 1922, BuOrd, impressed with Norden's progre