utomatic pilot work continued, but mainly as a device for long-range navigation and safety in poor weather. A decade of expensive research and development had left the Army's air force with many odds and ends, but no bombing equipment accurate enough to meet the goals of air power. This lack of success reached a crisis point in 1927 in a full-scale bombing exercise against the Pee Dee River Bridge near Albemarle, North Carolina. Although only two years old, this reinforced concrete bridge became a candidate for Army demolition tests when a dam under construction downstream threatened to submerge it. The Army divided the bridge into three sections, one each for use by the Field Artillery, the Corps of Engineers, and the Air Corps. Under Capt. Asa N. Duncan, a detachment of the 2nd Bombardment Group, desig- nated the Provisional Bombardment Squadron and based at Pope Field, North Carolina, dropped sand-filled bombs from Keystone LB-5 bombers on the west span and its approaches from December 19 to 21, 1927. Two days of live bombings with 300- and 600-pound bombs with instantaneous fuzes followed, but did little damage to the reinforced concrete. On the 24th, attacks with 600- and 1,100-pound bombs, some with delayed fuzes, dropped multiple sections of the bridge. Of eighteen 1,100-pound bombs dropped from 6,000 feet, six were direct hits. Six days of generally inaccu- rate bombing in clear skies with little wind, from low altitude, by the most highly trained crews in the Air Corps did not speak well of Army bomb- sights.55 To compensate for this limited accuracy, Duncan worked out a pattern-bombing tactic. Several aircraft flew in formation and all dropped their bombs when the lead bomber released its load, greatly improving the chances of getting a hit.56 The Pee Dee experiment escalated into a crisis because the Air Corps had just released Training Regulation 440-96 (December 12, 1927) with a section devoted to explaining the progress that had been made in bomb- sigh