mediate and future procurements in bomb sights.12 Because of a recent exchange of information with the Army on bombsight development, BuOrd's Entwistle meanwhile had invited two Materiel Di- vision officers, Maj. Willis H. Hale and Lt. Clarence S. Thorpe, to observe the Pittsburgh test. In their report, Hale and Thorpe judged the Norden bombsight clearly superior to all Army sights and recommended the can- cellation of Inglis/Sperry L-1 procurement. On April 18, 1932, BuOrd placed its first order for the new bombsight: thirty-two for the Navy and twenty-three for the Army, at a unit cost of $4,275. Following the proce- dure begun for the Mark XI, the Navy assumed responsibility for patent infringements.13 All concerned wanted to protect the security of the sight, but patents issued to private individuals could not carry a security classification. Secre- tary of the Navy Charles F. Adams therefore requested patent protection in the name of the Navy. Fortuitously, such confidentiality also met Norden's personal demands for anonymity and made the U.S. government legally responsible for any patent infringement suits. Such protection was crucial because the Sperry Company regarded Norden's work with gyroscopes as knowledge gained from Sperry patents.14 BuOrd filed the patent request on September 28, 1932, under Ted Barth's name, to provide Carl Norden with the anonymity he preferred, as "assignor to the United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy."15 The security clas- sification kept the patent concealed until March 30, 1948. The 50-pound Mark XV had thirty-five patentable features, including provisions for automatic crosstrail, ground speed-indicating scale, auto- matic bomb release, trail angle setting, tangent scale setting, and "a mov- ably mounted sighting telescope." Carl Norden had designed an analog computer, so-called because the device was a physical or mechanical analog of the mathematical equations used to solve the bombing problem.1