tude-a dangerous quality considering the speeds aircraft approached the ground in a dive. Norden's design had promise over the Sperry design because, after entering the dive, adjustments were automatic except for the pilot having to release the directional gyroscope. The Army and Navy agreed to fund four experimental models for $95,000, soon raised to $100,000.6 Continued development revealed a bombsight that was too complex, required too much of the pilot's attention, and allowed little variation from a constant speed and steady course. Norden made little progress because impending war brought an explosion of orders for his Mark XV/M-series bombsight and new Army demands for modifications to it. Work contin- ued at a slow pace until the Army and Navy canceled the project in 1944.7 The failure of the Norden project ended Navy attempts to automate the dive-bombing technique. Navy dive bombers entered World War II equipped with the simple Mark III (Mark 3 in World War II) line-of-sight telescopic gun sight for aiming their bombs. Keeping the cross hairs on the target, the pilot used a turn-and-bank indicator to maintain level flight. Army dive bombing in support of ground forces used the N-3A gun sight equipped with an adjustable reflector (Model A-1) and a Norden-style gy- roscopic stabilizer.8 For the remainder of the prewar period, the Navy continued using tor- pedo, dive, and horizontal bombing, though the importance of horizontal bombing declined. Exercises in May and June 1931 revealed an additional problem. Solid cloud cover off San Diego made high-altitude bombing "impracticable," allowing ship gunners to concentrate their fire on at- tacking torpedo bombers. In the opinion of the commander of the Battle Force, "it is not believed that these squadrons could have survived." BuAer questioned the continuation of the high-altitude horizontal bombing tech- nique when "the average low cloud form ceiling throughout the world is approximately 4,000 feet." The commande