, while the Army Air Corps/Army Air Forces preferred Automatic Flight Control Equipment (AFCE). For historical accuracy, the titles of organizations and equipments will be the name used during the period under consideration, according to the service under consideration.  Introduction ith any luck it would be the last bombing mission of the greatest war in human history. In a war of superlatives, of the most horrific weapons yet dredged from the human propensity for self-destruction, the mightiest bomber of the war carried one of the two most powerful bombs of the war to its tar- get. In a war where mass slaughter of civilians had become commonplace, this would be total war with a vengeance. Here would be the climax to six years of strategic bombing aimed at bringing the war to the economies and civilians behind the soldiers on the front lines. W Hunched over in the nose of the B-29 Enola Gay on August 6, 1945, bombardier Maj. Thomas Ferebee of the 509th Composite Group fol- lowed a ritual performed hundreds of thousands of times during the war. In his hands was the most important secret project of the prewar era, the Norden bombsight,1 there to drop the most important secret project of the war era, the atomic bomb. Over Hiroshima Ferebee located the target from 12 miles out. Uncharacteristically, clouds presented no obstacle on this day to his visual Norden bombsight. Taking control of the Enola Gay, he killed drift, the effects of wind, so that his aiming point, the Aioi Bridge over the Ota River, moved down the vertical cross hairs in his eyepiece. 1  2 Introduction 3 Introduction Ferebee next killed rate, synchronizing the bombsight's mechanism to the B-29's movement over the target, so that the ground below seemed to freeze in the sight. Finally he positioned the bridge squarely on the sight's horizontal cross hair. With every adjustment of the bombsight's knobs, Ferebee moved the control surfaces of the B-29 through the Minneapolis- Honeywell C-1 autopilot link