es for various speeds and altitudes.40 Radar-assisted bombing was inherently inaccurate. Operator error con- tributed from 1,000 to 3,000 feet of inaccuracy, beam width up to 1,500 feet, data transmission 250 feet, and the spot size of the target on the radar screen 200 feet. If all factors involved in the radar sighting method worked  182 Chapter 10 183 Precision Strategic Bombing against Germany perfectly, inherent uncertainties in the radar system could cause errors up to 2,750 feet. Because the radar received information from other instru- ments, additional errors in the determination of air speed, wind speed, alti- tude, and roll rate could account for another 3,700 feet of error. When dropped by radar alone, circular errors of two miles were average. With Norden visual assistance, errors below one mile were common.41 The capricious nature of European weather guaranteed adequate op- portunities to use H2X in combat. With visual bombing, Eighth Air Force achieved an accuracy of 33 percent of its bombs dropping within 1,000 feet of the target in the first half of 1944, 45 percent by the summer of 1944. During the last eight months of the war, on missions with the ground ob- scured by clouds, Eighth Air Force bombardiers relying on H2X achieved hits within two or three miles of the target. On missions specifically chosen for H2X bombing because of excellent land-water contrasts, getting 25 percent of bombs within 1,000 feet of the target was not unusual, however. 42 Late in the war the Army Air Forces deployed the NOSMO system (Norden Sight Modification) that fed radar data directly and continually into the Norden bombsight rather than having the H2X operator transfer the information to the bombardier verbally. Allowing continuous synchro- nous range tracking and visual-radar coordination, it was most effective with the higher resolution Bell Telephone Laboratories X-band Eagle (AN/APQ-7) radar. Known as NOSMEAGLE, this first true radar bomb- sight proved twice as