l Electric of Schenectady, New York, administered the U.S. Army's development projects. General Electric's version first flew successfully in April 1929. Although the Air Corps judged its operation "quite satisfactory," the aircraft still needed a human pilot to maintain level flight, essential if it were to be used to increase bombing accuracy. The General Electric device remained little more than a rudder control, using the output from a magnetic compass to control a steering motor hooked to the rudder. As the aircraft deviated from a preset magnetic course, the compass generated electric signals. Vacuum tubes amplified the signals, driving a rotating drum to make corrections to the rudder. To distinguish it from the Sperry "automatic pilot" project, the Air Corps called the Gen- eral Electric apparatus an "automatic steering control."39 Work on the General Electric project continued because Wright Field's Engineering Division felt "there is a great need in the Service for some means of automatic control of aircraft." The Air Corps was "particularly interested in" such a device for use in allowing "bombardment and long range observation airplanes" to "maintain a straight course for consider- able periods of time." By 1932 the automatic steering control was flying a test airplane 100 miles with a course deviation no greater than 150 yards. Wright Field also modified it to be able to work with a radio compass, following a radio beam, though with little success. In October 1932 the Air Corps ordered two production versions for extensive testing, but on December 12, 1933, canceled the automatic steering control project be- cause of the success of the Sperry project.40 Sperry Gyroscope entered Army autopilot research in February 1925 after an accidental meeting between the Engineering Division's Maj. Clin- ton W. Howard and Sperry vice-president Thomas A. Morgan.41 Lack of funding and Air Service priorities prevented earlier action.42 Morgan in- formed Howard of Sperry