object with any certainty" unless attacked with formations of thirty to sixty bombers.13 The first bombsight developed during the war to overcome these limi- tations was the British "pre-set vector" sight, consisting of a board with two wood sticks or nails, one for altitude and the other for ground speed, and a spirit level. The pilot or bombardier made all settings to this 1914 sight before reaching the target area, allowing the pilot to concentrate on the correct approach to the target. When the two nails or sticks came to- gether in line as the pilot viewed through them at the target, the crew released the bombs. Easy to use and simple in design, its preset nature required the pilot to fly at a constant speed, height, and course, either di- rectly into or with the wind. Smooth flying was essential. Training sug- gested an average circular error of 600 feet from 10,000 feet of altitude- an error that rose to 900 feet under the stress of combat. By 1918 the British had modified this sight to use a pivoted lever, allowing for different speeds and altitudes over the target area, found in a table of values carried aboard the aircraft. Lt. Cdr. Harry E. Wimperis of the Royal Naval Air Service's Imperial College of Science developed the British Wimperis "drift setting bomb- sight," dependent on predetermined bombing tables. The bombardier ad- justed several levers to reflect air speed, altitude, and the ballistics of the bombs being used. The pilot flew toward the target, directly with or against the wind, and when the front sight lined up with the rear sight, the bombardier released his bombs. Little more than two nails used in the same fashion as the sights on a rifle, the Wimperis differed only in allowing the nails to be adjusted to reflect different speeds, altitudes, and bombs.14 The Wimperis became the U.S. Army's choice to equip the DH-4 bombers American industry built during the war. The only Army modifi- cation was to install a windshield around the sight, wh