rns. Because no one could see the patent application or the contracts signed with Norden, no one could charge patent infringement or charge violation of procurement pro- cedures, and Norden would be guaranteed proprietary rights to his inven- tion. The arrangement raised the question as to whether the Navy was serving the nation or Carl L. Norden, Inc. Carl Norden preferred this unusual arrangement because he hated the publicity and business competition that would come from the regular poli- cies for procurement. He considered the Navy the "silent" service, while hating the Army's tendency to "ballyhoo" its actions. No doubt Billy Mitchell contributed to Norden's opinions. He felt Mitchell's grand- standing in the ship-bombing tests of the early 1920s denigrated his work. A man not to suffer fools, Norden believed Mitchell's bluster revealed an ignorance of the problems of bombing accuracy. After World War I the Army sent a colonel to New York to ask Norden to work on bombsights for the Army. He asked the colonel if he knew the Bible. Norden went on, "No man can serve the Lord and the Devil at the same time-and I work for the navy." A certain amount of snobbery added to his feelings, as he believed naval officers to be patrician gentleman and Army officers to be plebeians. 40 Production of the Mark XI began slowly, allowing the Navy and Nor- den to continue testing and improving nearly each Mark XI as it was pro- duced. Norden, the perfectionist, tried eight different metal alloys, 105 different levels, and 61 gyroscope armatures to find the best types for his bombsight. Nine years separated Stott's original request for Norden to ex- amine the problem of precision bombing from the Navy's release of the first Norden sight for fleet use. Were the results worth the wait? BuAer concluded that the Mark XI "lives up to all expectations reasonably held for it during the first year of its use," though nagging problems continued. Slippage of the "back sight" was never solved