uOrd was not finished with its obstructionism. Robbins and Meyers, a subcontractor to Carl L. Norden, Inc., and a significant beneficiary of Navy contracts, filed a complaint with the Army-Navy Munitions Board, reporting that it already had sufficient facilities to meet the Army's C-1 needs. The Army Air Forces told the board that it had evidence that  126 Chapter 7 the complaint originated at BuOrd, which wanted all production of the Norden bombsight and associated SBAE/AFCEs to be under Navy con- trol. In the end the Army Air Forces retained the "right to take all of the Minneapolis-Honeywell production regardless of Navy commitments if and when it should be necessary." Turnabout must have been fair play.45 BuOrd's actions had delayed the C-1's development and hindered the initial bombing efforts of the Army Air Forces. Only a crash development program and the emergency transport of Minneapolis-Honeywell techni- cians and advanced bombardier instructors to England allowed the C-1 to enter the air war on May 18, 1943, for a mission to Vegesack. A technologi- cal revolution was underway during World War II, marking a shift from mechanical to electronic equipment. Carl Norden represented the best of the mechanical world, but rejected the new electronic engineering.46 The SBAE/AFCE imbroglio was one of several points of contention between the Army and Navy in preparing bomb-aiming equipment. The Air Corps needed an improved Norden Mark XV bombsight. New Army four-engine bombers flew at twice the speed and altitude of the Navy air- craft for which the Norden bombsight had been designed. Only a major redesign would allow its use up to 300 MPH and 30,000 feet. The Air Corps wanted a glide bombing attachment (GBA) to allow changes in altitude during the bombing run to confuse antiaircraft artillery gunners; an auto- matic erection system (AES) that would automatically level the bomb- sight's gyroscopes instead of forcing the bombardier to level them manu- ally using bubbl