rew comfort and safety. The first reference to stabilization to improve bombing accuracy came in a Sperry automatic pilot brochure from 1916, designed to interest customers in Sperry products.23 The gyroscope24 was the key to stabilizing aircraft and bombsights be- cause of two fundamental properties-rigidity in the plane of rotation and precession. The spinning wheel of the gyroscope resists any force acting to change the direction of its axis of rotation. This tendency allows the aircraft or bombsight to maintain a constant frame of reference, usually the true vertical line from the aircraft to the earth or a true horizontal line from the aircraft in the direction of flight. If large enough, this resistance would overcome any tendency of the aircraft to turn or oscillate, though at the penalty of stiffness of ride and weight. Sperry's stabilizer for Beach's aircraft operated according to this principle. The second quality, precession, provided the key to stabilized flight through an autopilot. Precession refers to the spinning wheel's tendency to tilt about an axis perpendicular to the one acted upon by an outside force. Any oscillation of an aircraft moves the frame (cardan ring) inside which the gyroscope's wheel spins, causing the wheel to tilt to counteract  20 Chapter 1 21 Dropping Projectiles from Aerial Crafts the forces interfering with smooth and level flight. This tilt could be mea- sured and transferred electrically or mechanically to the aircraft's control surfaces to bring the aircraft back into line with the gyroscope's original frame of reference.25 By 1912 Lawrence Sperry was using gyroscopes to direct servomotors operating the controls of test aircraft. The breakthrough came in 1913 when the younger Sperry realized that a turn was the result of a combina- tion of the lateral and longitudinal controls of an aircraft. Although not technically an automatic pilot, Sperry's stabilizer used four gyroscopes to maintain level flight by linking the aircraf