riment escalated into a crisis because the Air Corps had just released Training Regulation 440-96 (December 12, 1927) with a section devoted to explaining the progress that had been made in bomb- sight designs since World War I. Average circular errors for the World War I Mark IA and Michelin bombsights had been 795 feet, dropping to 160 feet for the modern D-1 sight from 8,000 feet. An increase in accuracy of five times since the war convinced Chief of the Air Corps Maj. Gen. James E. Fechet that precision bombing was at hand, until the failures at the Pee Dee Bridge showed otherwise.57 Fechet responded to the report of Pee Dee results one day after he re- ceived it, probably spurred on by chiding from officers from the Corps of Engineers and the Field Artillery. His letter to the Materiel Division summed up the Army's frustration with the progress to date. Recent tests conducted by the War Department in the destruction of the Pee Dee River Bridge near Albemarle, North Carolina, and which were participated in by the Air Corps, demonstrated that the present bomb sight with which the Air Corps is equipped, falls far short of being the instrument of precision which is necessary in order to insure accu- rate bombing under service conditions from normal bombing alti- tudes. ... It is most essential that the Air Corps have a bomb sight which reduces the possibility of personal error to a minimum. . . . I can- not too strongly emphasize the importance of a bomb sight of precision, since the ability of bombardment aviation to perform the mission of destruction is almost entirely dependent upon an accurate and practical bomb sight.58 The Materiel Division had spent the previous decade developing timing systems, synchronous systems, pilot direction indicators, pendulum stabili- zation, gyroscopic stabilization, and gyroscopically damped pendulum sta- bilization, but with no clear results. It had followed two lines of develop- ment, one for an inexpensive low-altitude sight a