ccept the Navy's continued hogging of available production. At a meeting with the Navy on November 11, 1942, the Army Air Forces presented two major complaints. First, the Army was using every Norden it could get on a daily basis, while the Navy was putting its Nordens on the shelf as spares. Second, inconsistent deliveries were playing havoc with aircraft delivery schedules. If BuOrd told the Army Air Forces to expect 250 bombsights in one month, then Wright Field ordered that many bombers for that month. When the Navy then delivered 400 bombsights, the effect was to cause the Army to lose 150 aircraft. The Navy representative at the meeting replied that additional production would not be possible until the Army placed more orders. Army Air Forces representatives argued that they had or- dered more than 10,000 in 1942, but were scheduled to receive only 4,473 in 1943 and the remainder in 1944. One protested, "We've got boys all out all over the world right now without any true precision bombsights in their planes and they've got this damn D-8 sight that I would just as soon have a couple of nails and a wire." The Navy representative ended the meeting with a flippant answer to Army objections: "We just thought we were being good to you."12 Chief of Naval Operations Ernest J. King inflamed matters in late No- vember 1942, notifying the Army that the Navy intended to break Secre- tary of Navy Knox's 50/50 production-split promise of January 1942. King justified his actions on the grounds that the Army had other bombsights it could use, while the Navy had only the Norden bombsight. Secretary of War Stimson wrote Knox and Army Chief of Staff George C. Marshall wrote King that the Navy had never lived up to the agreement and that planned allocations to the Army were insufficient to meet minimum needs. Arnold, tired of Navy obstruction, presented the issue to the Joint Aircraft Committee. One week later BuOrd requested that the committee stop its consideration of the matt