ue" for one out of three bomb drops.28 Because short-range dive bombing was not practi- cal for the Air Corps' strategic bombing role, Arnold ordered the Air Corps Board to consider glide and low-altitude bombing to increase accu- 83 in strategic missions to "hamper the manufacturing of war materiel" and "weaken the morale of the enemy people by attacks on centers of popula- tion." These strikes against morale would not be terror attacks, however. Morale would decline under aerial bombardment because bombing de- stroyed jobs and the amenities of urban living. The 1924-25 text de- manded precision, concluding that sending out airplanes to drop their bombs over large areas was wrong. Within each major target, bombers should strike at specific points, including individual buildings, warehouses, offices, water plants, power plants, and aircraft, not residential areas. The text argued against bombing political centers because the laws of warfare prohibited it except in reprisal and because it would have a "doubtful" in- fluence on morale. 43 Central to the development of a strategic bombing doctrine in which the Norden Mark XV/M-series bombsight would play such a critical role was the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS). Set up originally as the Field Officers School at Langley Field, Virginia, on November 1, 1920, with seven students, it was the first professional military school for aviators in the world. Its assignment was to prepare competent commanders and staff officers in tactical, technical, and administrative fields and to prepare air force doctrine. On July 15, 1931, ACTS moved to Maxwell Field, Mont- gomery, Alabama. By the late 1920s and early 1930s the thinking of the ACTS faculty began to reflect a deeper analysis based less on wartime ex- perience but more on theoretical study. Technology followed doctrine be- cause the backbone of the air fleet at the genesis of the daylight precision strategic bombing idea was the B-3A Keystone Panther, a twin-engine bi- pl