idge squarely on the sight's horizontal cross hair. With every adjustment of the bombsight's knobs, Ferebee moved the control surfaces of the B-29 through the Minneapolis- Honeywell C-1 autopilot linked to his bombsight. The bombardier had to direct the 55 tons of aircraft and bomb to intersect that one point in the sky from which the bomb, when dropped, could be expected to hit the target. The rest was up to the analog computer/bombsight this bombardier had come to know so intimately during the war. The dropping of the "Lit- tle Boy" atomic bomb was by machine, not human. When the Enola Gay reached that one point, the bomb would drop automatically.2 The approach to the target was routine, probably more routine than Ferebee's sixty-three missions in the European war. During the last two minutes of the bomb run, the autopilot controlled the Enola Gay, main- taining gyroscopically stabilized flight. The Norden bombsight's gears meshed, transforming Ferebee's manual adjustments into mechanical solu- tions to the geometric equations that represented the bomb release point At 9:15 (8:15 Hiroshima time) the bombsight directed the bomb shackles of the B-29 to open while the Enola Gay flew at a ground speed of 328 MPH six miles up. In the 43 seconds it took for the bomb to drop to its detona- tion point at 1,890 feet, pilot Lt. Col. Paul W. Tibbets initiated his escape maneuver. The Norden bombsight, its job done, became dead weight. Major Ferebee, despite using the most accurate optical bombsight ever developed, missed the aiming point by approximately 800 feet. Twelve and a half thousand tons of TNT-equivalent atomic explosion insured that ac- curacy was not critical. His inaccurate delivery meant little to those who waited for the holocaust on the ground. The detonator, which had caused so many problems for those involved in the Manhattan Project, worked to perfection. A city died.3 Three days later, the second atomic bomber, Bock's Car, flew first to Kokura, but haze an