Ar- my's Coast Artillery School at Fort Monroe, Virginia, reported that anti- aircraft artillery would be more effective against low-altitude bombers. The commander of the 11th Bombing Squadron at Rockwell Field, Cali- fornia, pointed out that any bomb dropped at low altitude must have a 20- second delay fuze to allow the aircraft to escape from the blast, which would make bombs more complicated and more expensive. Most critically, the commander of the 3rd Attack Group at Fort Crock- ett, Texas, responsible for low-altitude bombers, complained that training showed low-altitude bombing to be more inaccurate than high-altitude bombing because bombs tended to bounce and roll on impact and naviga- tion was more difficult. He concluded that the Air Corps could achieve "more accurate performance of missions" with "high flying than with low flying."49 Walker had audaciously challenged common wisdom and discovered that the obvious answer to his question was incorrect. Because of Walker's actions and test results, Chief of the Air Corps James E. Fechet made the achievement of accurate bombing from high altitudes the priority of the Air Corps on January 2, 1931. This action inspired a series of tests at the Aberdeen Proving Ground in July, September, October, and November of 1931 to test the effectiveness of low-altitude bombing. Using B-2 and B-5  86 Chapter 4 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine bombers flying at 120 to 180 MPH at an altitude of 150 feet, these tests proved "extremely high accuracy" could be achieved at low altitudes only if the bombs penetrated a building and came to a stop before exploding. Maj. Fred H. Coleman, the Air Corps representative at Aberdeen, identi- fied many problems with low-altitude delivery. If they landed on hard sur- faces, the bombs tended to roll, skid, or tumble an average of 141 feet in range and 25 feet in deflection. The small angle of impact made fuzes more liable to fail. Bombs tended to detonate on their sides, reduci