e of Operations Analysts identified six target systems for the effort: merchant shipping, steel production, urban industrial areas, air- 195 Japan's Highly Inflammable Cities craft plants, antifriction bearings, and the electronics industry. Code- named MATTERHORN, the strategic bombing campaign of Brig. Gen. Ken- neth B. Wolfe's XX Bomber Command, the operational organization of Twentieth Air Force, began on June 5, 1944, with a strike against Bangkok. Clouds forced radar bomb-aiming and only sixteen to eighteen bombs landed anywhere near the target area.10 XX Bomber Command's first target on the Japanese home islands was the Imperial Iron and Steel Works at Yawata on June 7, 1944. It was the perfect choke-point, producing 25 percent of Japan's steel. Flying at ex- treme range with small bomb loads at night produced miserable bombing accuracy-photographic intelligence revealed the nearest bomb crater was 3,700 feet from the target. The cost was seven of the sixty-eight B-29s launched. Maj. Gen. Curtis E. LeMay replaced Wolfe in July, but results remained mixed. Night missions proved fruitless, while accuracy during the day made most missions futile. A radar run on the Pladjoe refinery at Palem- bang, Sumatra, produced one hit out of 156 bombs dropped. Another day- light raid on the Yawata Iron and Steel Works did no damage, but cost fourteen B-29s. Daylight precision strategic bombing was going nowhere in the war against Japan. The one notable success during this early period was the raid on a Man- churian coke plant at Anshan on September 8, 1944. For the loss of four B-29s, ninety-one others knocked out six of sixteen coke batteries. Accu- racy, however, was poor by European standards-fewer than 10 percent of the bombs landed within 1,000 feet of the assigned aiming point. LeMay instituted major changes to improve accuracy, based on his European expe- rience. He formed the B-29s into tight twelve-aircraft combat boxes under the direction of a lead bombardier sigh