ferred because of the protec- tion such nights provided. A five-mile circular error meant Bomber Com- mand was scattering a few bombs over 78 square miles of German terri- tory. Hugh Trenchard, "father" of the Royal Air Force, came out of retirement to argue that ninety-nine out of one hundred bombs aimed at precision targets would miss, but if dropped on a city, all would do damage.2 Chief of the Air Staff Sir Charles Portal identified forty-three German cities for destruction. If Bomber Command could not hit precision targets, then it would bomb what it could-cities. Secretary of State for Air Sir Archibald Sinclair and the British Defence Committee ordered the switch to night area bombing on February 14, 1942, eight days before Sir Arthur Harris assumed command of Bomber Command. "The primary objective should now be focussed on the morale of the enemy civil population and, in particular, of the industrial workers." Harris aimed not at morale, but at the German capacity for war by reducing the number of industrial man- hours available to war production. Reductions in industrial production would be "at least as much by the indirect effect of damage to services, housing, and amenities, as by any direct damage to the factories." Indus- trial destruction would be "regarded as a bonus." This "city-busting" or "de-housing" campaign, according to the official history of the British bombing effort, was based on the "principle that in order to destroy any- thing it is necessary to destroy everything."3 The baptism of fire for the American Norden bombsight and daylight precision strategic bombing was the England-based Army Air Forces's Eighth Air Force campaign against Germany. Based in Italy, the Fifteenth Air Force joined the endeavor in late 1943. Equipment shortages, diver- sions, German defenses, and other problems interfered with the strategic bombing effort, but throughout, bombing accuracy remained the key con- sideration and determinant of success. With suitable co