mirals could have less accurate long-range horizontal bombing from land or more accurate short-range dive bombing from carriers at sea, but not in the same aircraft. Also preserved was the capability in carrier-borne aircraft because occa- sional successes in exercises maintained hope that increased training could make the technique work. In 1932 Squadron VT-2B, using Norden Mark XI bombsights, hit a maneuvering USS Utah from 10,000 feet with five of thirty-one practice bombs. Adm. David F. Sellers, commander of the Bat- tle Force, concluded that "further demonstrations of the accuracy of high- altitude bombing may change opinions as to the value of dive-bombing." Critics pointed out that the Utah was at reduced speed and the weather had been perfect.14 Horizontal bombing persisted, but changes in the rules of bombing practices in the nine years before World War II laid bare the weaknesses of level bombing. Antiaircraft artillery forced horizontal bombers ever higher. Each increase in altitude negatively affected bombing accuracy, de- spite what BuOrd's paper calculations claimed (see Table 6.1). The dive bomber continued its move to the forefront of naval aerial warfare. Official Navy policy was to use high-altitude precision bombing or tor- pedo bombing first to surprise enemy ships and to divert attention from dive bombers that would carry out the main attack. Against maneuvering targets, BuOrd concluded, the dive bomber "held a practical monopoly on effective attacks."15 Dive bombing evolved in the 1920s and 1930s almost incidentally, im- plemented to overcome the accuracy limitations of horizontal bombing and the survivability limitations of torpedo bombing. It arose from below, from a handful of young men who knew nothing of doctrine and little of battle lines, but knew flying and knew bombing. A decade of tests and exer- cises proved them irrepressible and their tactic irresistible, though dive bombing never completely supplanted the other two bombing techniq