e the ability of bombardment aviation to perform the mission of destruction is almost entirely dependent upon an accurate and practical bomb sight." (Source: USAF Historical Research Agency.) "Buh-Lam! Missed Again." The nadir of interwar efforts to achieve precision bombing was the August 1931 training mission against the 400-foot USS Mount Shasta. Two bomb hits, only one exploding, forced the Coast Guard to rescue the Army Air Corps and sink the derelict vessel. (Source: USAF Historical Research Agency.) (Upper left) Maj. Donald Wilson contributed the idea of bombing an enemy's industrial fabric, 1934. (Upper right) Capt. Kenneth Walker justified high-altitude bombing at the Air Corps Tactical School, 1930. (Below) Air Corps Tactical School from the front, 1934. (Sources: [upper left and right] Air University Office of History; [below] USAF Historical Research Agency.) In the 1930s Air Corps Tactical School faculty searched the American industrial web for choke-points, photographing them as course materials. On the back of this photograph of the Philadelphia railroad and port facility, Col. Herbert Dargue, the director of instruction at the school, wrote, "Is it hard to see the bottleneck here? The airman could hardly mistake the place to put his bomb to accomplish the greatest inconvenience to rail facilities here." (Source: USAF Historical Research Agency.)  With a touch of sarcasm, Dargue chose this complex as an example of a choke- point in the "industrial fabric" that would be a perfect target for Army bombers in carrying out the doctrine of daylight precision strategic bombing. The site is the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, 1932. (Source: USAF Historical Research Agency.) Adm. William A. Moffett (right) greeted Marine aviators Maj. Thomas C. Turner (left) and 2d Lt. Lawson H. Mc. Sanderson (center) at Bolling Field upon their return from a flight from Washington, D.C., to Santo Domingo in April 1921. In 1919 Sanderson started the U.S. Navy in the direction