es into targets for a new type of warfare. The U.S. Army Air Forces had a doctrine of high-altitude daylight pre- cision strategic bombing, a war plan (AWPD/1), the support of Pres. Franklin Roosevelt, and a technology based on the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress, Norden bombsight, and Norden SBAE/Minneapolis-Honeywell AFCE (stabilized bombing approach equipment/automatic flight control equipment). With two decades of peace and fewer than 100 heavy bombers behind it, the Army Air Forces lacked only the experience and muscle that war could provide. Some experience could be gained from the British after three years of war, which did not bode well for the teachings of the Air Corps Tactical School. Initially committed to daylight precision strategic bombing, the Royal Air Force's Bomber Command struck at oil, electrical power, coke plants, gas works, and aircraft factories. Two factors, however, pushed it toward area bombing. First, German attacks on British urban areas in late 1940 encouraged a partial switch to "large towns and centres of industry, with the primary aim of causing very heavy material destruction which will 165  Chapter 10 166 Precision Strategic Bombing against Germany demonstrate to the enemy the power and severity of air bombardment and the hardship and dislocation which will result from it."1 The second factor was German defenses. Losses of up to 50 percent drove Bomber Command to seek the cover of darkness. The strategy re- mained attacks on industrial targets until the Butt Report of August 1941 revealed how inaccurate night bombing was. One-third of all sorties never bombed their primary targets. Only two crews in five came within five miles of their targets on full-moon nights, but only one in fifteen on the moonless nights that the Royal Air Force preferred because of the protec- tion such nights provided. A five-mile circular error meant Bomber Com- mand was scattering a few bombs over 78 square miles of German terri- tory. Hugh Trenchard, "fathe