phenomenon only revealed when B-29s flew above 30,000 feet, pushed the ground speed of B-29s to 445 MPH-too fast for the Norden bombsight. Musashino officials reported all bombs missed.15 Weather officers discovered that southeasterly trade winds collided with cold winds from the Asian continent and caused swirling layers of clouds to move toward Japan at different speeds and directions. Crews ran into winds of 200 MPH six miles up. Flying against the winds slowed aircraft and exposed them to enemy defenses. Flying at an angle to them caused so much drift that the Norden bombsight could not compensate. Flying with the winds occasionally pushed ground speeds above 500 MPH-too fast for Norden bombsight synchronization.16 Against the jet stream B-29s did well to get 10 percent of their bombs within 1,000 feet of the assigned aiming point, compared to 42 percent at lower altitudes against Singapore, Rangoon, and Bangkok.17 H,X radar, developed because Wright Field foresaw future aircraft would fly too fast for the Norden bombsight, proved equally ineffective. A mission to the Mitsubishi assembly plant at Nagoya under radar conditions left hundreds of craters 40 miles to the left and 30 miles short of the target. A crisis in daylight precision strategic bombing was at hand. According to the Japanese, twenty-two missions against Japanese industries knocked out but one factory. In multiple raids against the Musashino Aircraft Fac- tory, 835 B-29s dropping 2,300 tons of bombs damaged only 4 percent of the sprawling facility. The only obvious solutions to bombing inaccuracy were lower bombing altitudes or area incendiary bombing of Japan's tin- derbox cities. Hansell, committed to Air Corps Tactical School doctrine, fought against both. Lower altitudes, he thought, would mean greater losses of the $509,000 B-29 and its crew of eleven to thirteen airmen. Area bombing would not destroy the Japanese capability for waging war. The Air Staff and Arnold pressed him to undertake in