ined an average circular error in training of less than 106 feet. Next was the Master Bombardier, with an average circular error of less than 136 feet. The lowest rank was Bombardier, with a circular error of less than 185 feet. Although impressive, these achievements were for low-speed training missions with bombing runs of two minutes or more in ideal weather 163 against clearly marke arked circles surrounded by miles of open terrain. At cruising speeds in average weather with only 45-second bomb runs, the average circular errors for these three bombardier ranks rose to 172, 221, and 300 feet, respectively.35 A bomb landing over 200 feet from an industrial target did no damage. What results could be expected from these same bombardiers in combat conditions? Where bombing altitudes under 20,000 feet were rare? Where targets were surrounded by urban clutter and hidden by camouflage, clouds, industrial haze, and the smoke and dust of exploding bombs? Where enemy defenders used ground-fired artillery shells, air-fired ma- chine gun bullets and cannon shells, air-fired rockets, and even aerial bombs dropped from higher altitudes? Stateside training could do little to duplicate wartime conditions. Train- ing flights were too short and too low. Shortages of aircraft, bombsights, equipment, and facilities were constant until the last year of the war. Short- ages of oxygen and 91-octane fuel kept training flights at low altitudes. Trainees dropped bombs individually rather than in salvo. They did not fly formation bombing missions until the operational training unit stage. Training did little to prepare bombardiers for nonvisual or partially visual bombing. Some instructors had never seen combat. The AT-11 bombar- dier trainer could not reach the combat altitudes of heavy bombers and handled so differently through the SBAE/AFCE systems that significant retraining had to accompany any transfer to a combat unit. For all its faults, the training program produced the most qual