d the Navy for its efforts, but pointed out that it needed 4,513 M-7 bombsights. Production would lag behind needs until April 1942 if the Navy's expansion worked according to plans. In April 1941 the Army exacerbated the problem with an order for 5,420 ad- ditional sights and 5,185 SBAEs, making the Navy's expansion plans inade- quate until March 1943.69 BuOrd contracted with Carl L. Norden, Inc., to operate the Indianapo- lis plant when completed. Barth and Norden organized a subsidiary hold- ing company, the Lukas-Harold Corporation (Lukas was Carl Norden's middle name, Harold was Ted Barth's), as primary contractor. The plant became operational in May 1942. Carl L. Norden, Inc., for its part, rented four new floors for tools and machinery and one new floor for assembly at 80 Lafayette Street. Lukas-Harold occupied an additional floor, until the Indianapolis plant was ready for production, giving Norden a total of nine floors. The Navy also contracted with Remington Rand, Inc., to produce Norden bombsights at the new "N" Division bombsight factory at Elmira, New York. The Navy spent $1,902,903 to finance the expansion of Rob- bins and Myers to produce 800 SBAE subsystems per month. Finally, In- ternational Projector Corporation of New York prepared to construct low- altitude bombing attachments, SBAE sector panels, and subcomponents. Total Navy investment in manufacturing facilities for the Norden bomb- sight and the SBAE during the war came to $34 million.70 It would not be enough. The Army Air Forces was beginning the largest buildup in the nation's history and the promise of thousands of bombers pouring off assembly lines without bombsights threatened to derail the effort. The United States was the leading capitalist democracy in the world between the two world wars, with strong traditions of competition; of open government "of the people, by the people, for the people"; and of soldiers in service to the nation. By 1939 this nation led the world in bombsight d