mbing; Grum- man F4F Wildcats, dual-purpose fighter aircraft capable of dive bombing; and Douglas SBD Dauntless dive bombers. The Ranger, because of its small size, was an all-dive bomber ship. At the Battle of the Coral Sea in May 1942, the Lexington and Yorktown together carried forty-two F4F Wildcat fighters, twenty-five TBD Devastator torpedo bombers, and seventy-four SBD Dauntless dive bombers. Perhaps the origins of dive bombing prevented the Navy from adopting it exclusively. In the tradition-bound Navy, with a hierarchical rank struc- ture that discouraged such innovation from below, especially in peacetime, this failure was not unusual. In the Air Corps, itself too young to be bound by traditions and a hierarchical rank structure, young lieutenants and cap- tains forged the revolutionary doctrine of high-altitude daylight precision strategic bombing. The absence of a unified Navy doctrine left hundreds of torpedo bomber crewmen vulnerable and exposed to enemy defenses. It  112 113 Preparation for War 7 Preparation for War n April 1933 Chief of the Air Corps Benjamin D. Foulois secretly visited Norden president Ted Barth's New York apartment seeking a direct Army contract for Norden Mark XVs free of Navy involve- ment. Foulois objected to Norden as the sole source for this critical technology, the restricted size of the Norden operation, the "unusual amount" of handwork that went into the sight, and the requirement that the Army had to place its orders through BuOrd. Barth refused Foulois' request to modify the Navy-Norden arrangement, prompting Foulois to explode, claiming the patent for the bombsight "belonged to the U.S. Government and not to the Navy!" He threatened to go to BuOrd, the chief of naval operations, the secretary of war, and "to the committees of Congress." Barth still refused, claiming he was "morally bound" to sell all Norden bombsights to the Navy.1 Despite such difficulties, the shotgun of the Army Air Corps doctrine of daylight precisio