nce the Air Corps that their needs are fairly considered and met, I believe they will carry a fight for direct dealings with Norden to higher authority." Assistant Secretary of War for Air Robert A. Lovett requested fair consideration, but Undersecretary of the Navy James Forrestal refused. The Navy, he said, paid for the bombsight, needed it, and believed the company should not have to deal with more than one department of government.17 The Navy also fought against Air Corps efforts to modify the Norden bombsight. Of all the changes made to the basic Norden design, for only one, automatic flight control through the bombsight, did the Navy provide unrestricted support. Eliminating the human factor in piloting the aircraft over the target promised to make the most accurate bombsight in the world even more accurate. . By 1933 the Sperry Company had replaced the mechanical linkages of the younger Elmer A. Sperry's A-1 autopilot with hydraulic hoses and the electrical gyroscopes with rotors driven by air. The momentary lag that was typical of hydraulic drives made the new A-2 autopilot perfect for commercial passenger-carrying aircraft, but less than perfect as a precision bombing device.18 Sperry also produced an A-3 autopilot in the late 1930s, similar to the A-2, but smaller, lighter, and with a magnetic compass for maintaining a magnetic heading. The A-2 and the A-3 could not be used with the Norden bombsight without the penalty of extra weight, complex- ity, and cost because the Sperry autopilot employed air-driven gyroscopes while the Norden bombsight used electrically driven gyroscopes and be- cause the Norden bombsight provided directional signals incompatible with Sperry autopilots.19 The Air Corps and Sperry had taken the lead in autopilot development, but the Navy and Norden were at the front of bombsight development. Distrust between the two sides prevented any cooperation to merge the two technologies. The Air Corps therefore worked to link Sperry bomb- sig