World War I Wimperis. The Mark I Army Wimperis required different scales for each bomb, could not be used at night, was not stabilized, could not find ground speed, and could only be used flying directly with or against the wind. It was, according to legend, only better than nothing. Examining dozens of possible replacements, the Engineering Division appeared intent on stum- bling onto the best available. As of June 26, 1922, the Air Service had 10,819 Mark I-As (Wimperis), 40 Mark Is (Wimperis), 1 "Course Setting" (modified Wimperis), 681 "Improved" Wimperises (Mark III), 14 Navy  28 Chapter 2 29 The Army's Pursuit of Precision Bombing Mark IVs (Norden stabilized Mark III-A), 1 Pioneer (D-1), 1 "gyroscopi- cally stabilized test model," 1 Mark X sight designed and built by the Frankford Arsenal, and 9 improved Michelins. The Engineering Division had also examined the Barr, Loring, Ford, Duff Double Drift, Hathaway- Loring, Milne-Loring, Goerz-Boykow, Meijer, Beggs, Miller, Estoppey, Riley-Scott, Kimball, Hathaway, and Hatchett. A few sights introduced original ideas, such as the Estoppey, which used pendulum stabilization. The most revolutionary, though faulty in many respects, was the Kimball, which used a spoked wheel to synchronize the sight with the aircraft's ground speed. All had one common characteristic-they represented little or no improvement over existing Wimperis sights.7 These failures and a limited budget encouraged Army attempts to im- prove the Mark I-A (Army) and III (Navy) Wimperis bombsights. Sperry Gyroscope offered to stabilize the Mark III for $2,000 and the Mark I-A for $900. Sperry needed only one month to complete the stabilization of the Mark III, which the Army considered superior to the Mark I-A because of its drift compensation feature, but needed eight months to complete the Mark I-A, which required a telescope besides stabilization. Neither device met Army needs.8 In 1923 Wimperis offered a new bombsight to the U.S. government, promisi