A-2's hydraulics, Norden had free rein to install mechanical linkages in his SBAE. Fortuitously strong- willed Carl Norden had a predilection for the quicker and more accurate responses of mechanical devices.22 Norden pursued "automatic flight control in connection with bombing approaches" as a private venture because the Navy had no available funds. In December 1933 he received $5,000 for the development of one proto- type, the patent for which would go to the government. Carl Norden at  120 Chapter 7 121 Preparation for War this time perceived the device as a joint SBAE/autopilot, to be used for bombing and for general navigation. Lt. Cdr. Forrest P. Sherman, BuOrd's head of Aviation Ordnance, told Norden on August 11, 1933, that "in or- der to keep Bureau cognizance straight on this feature, we will probably have to justify the contract on a basis of improved bombing accuracy and leave the sea-going navigational value more or less to be read between the lines for the present."23 Carl Norden again isolated himself in Switzerland to work on the SBAE while his business partner, Ted Barth, strove to head off the Army's rush to buy Sperry autopilots. Barth wrote his contact in the Air Corps, Col. Herbert Dargue, in charge of instruction at the Air Corps Tactical School, expressing the hope that the Air Corps would await the completion of the Norden SBAE because it would be the "simplest, and the most complete system ever developed." Capable of reducing errors in bombing by one- third and the length of the bombing run from 50 to 20 seconds, Barth claimed, he felt it would be a duplication of effort for the Air Corps to equip its aircraft with Sperry autopilots and Norden SBAEs when the lat- ter also could serve as an autopilot.24 Barth should have talked to his partner, who was purposefully avoiding work on an automatic pilot under BuOrd direction. In 1935 BuOrd changed its policy and suggested to Norden that at some point in the fu- ture he might modify his SBAE to al