n, "Bombing Techniques-General," 1945, File 520.547A, HRA. 49. Army Air Forces Statistical Digest, World War II (Washington, D.C .: Office of Statistical Control, 1945), 242. Combined with the British bombing campaign, less than 14 percent of Allied bombs fell on the industrial fabric of Germany, 32 percent on transportation targets, 24 percent on "industrial areas" (city bombing), and 11 percent in support of armies in the field. See USSBS, Report No. 2, Overall Report (European War), 8. 50. AAF Operations Analysis, "The Causes of Bombing Errors as Based on Eighth Air Force Combat Operations," July 15, 1947, File 143.504-3, HRA. This postwar evaluation determined that an average of 39.7 percent of bombing error came from antiaircraft artillery, 21.7 percent from altitude, and 11.8 percent from smoke and haze. 51. School of Applied Tactics, "Radar Bombing," HRA. One possible cause for error not presented here was a casual procedure followed by every bombardier during the war. Lt. Col. Paul W. Tibbets, commander of the 509th Composite Group, assigned responsibility for dropping the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, became frustrated at his bombar- dier's lack of accuracy in testing at a bombing range in California. Close observation revealed that Maj. Thomas Ferebee did his preliminary adjustments and calculations on the Norden bombsight while seated. As he prepared to fix the sight on his aiming point, however, perhaps as a result of the increased tension of the moment, Ferebee and presumably tens of thousands of other American bombardiers lifted themselves slightly off their seats at the last few seconds while positioning the aiming point squarely in the center of the bombsight's telescope. This changed their viewing angle ever so slightly-a change of a nearly minuscule angle that would be amplified to an error of several hundred feet on the ground. See Thomas and Witts, Enola Gay, 68-69. Additionally, Harvard University researchers discovered close to the en