needed eight months to complete the Mark I-A, which required a telescope besides stabilization. Neither device met Army needs.8 In 1923 Wimperis offered a new bombsight to the U.S. government, promising it would allow bombing approaches from any direction, what- ever the wind. He claimed to have sold it to the governments of Great Britain, Japan, Spain, Argentina, and Uruguay. The Air Service's Engi- neering Division concluded it offered nothing new over previous Wim- peris sights. More important, in a sign that the United States had restored itself to the forefront of bombsight design, the Engineering Division con- cluded that current Army and Navy bombsights were superior to the new Wimperis. All new bombsights in American service would be American- designed and American-built.ยบ In the pursuit of simple low-altitude and complex high-altitude bomb- sights, the Air Service and its successor, the Air Corps, dealt mainly with three designers and one company: Alexander P. de Seversky, Georges Es- toppey, Henry B. Inglis, and the Sperry Gyroscope Company. All stemmed from a March 1921 meeting in Washington between Brig. Gen. Billy Mitchell and Lawrence B. Sperry, father of stabilized flight and son of El- mer A. Sperry Sr. of the Sperry Gyroscope Company. Mitchell, preparing for ship-bombing tests scheduled to begin that summer, asked the Sperrys to undertake the development of a stabilized bombsight. Elmer Sperry judged the merits of the idea and invited the Engineering Division's chief bombsight engineer, Capt. Henry B. Inglis, to bring the division's resident bombsight expert, Alexander P. de Seversky, a World War I ace in the Rus- sian air force, to Sperry's New York factory. Sperry, under an Army devel- opment contract, hired Seversky to turn his paper idea into a practical bombsight using Sperry equipment and employees.10 Seversky described his C-1 bombsight as highly accurate and com- pletely automatic, with the exception of drift control. It employed a gyro- sco