zation, gyroscopic stabilization, and gyroscopically damped pendulum sta- bilization, but with no clear results. It had followed two lines of develop- ment, one for an inexpensive low-altitude sight and the other an expensive high-altitude device. The completion of the D-1, D-4, and D-5 Estoppey projects, the latter using the synchronous principle, fulfilled the require- ment for a low-altitude bombsight, but a procurement decision had to await the testing of these sights against the Navy's Norden Mark XI, dis- missed as a timing sight with little potential. Development of the high- altitude bombsight had "not progressed so rapidly." The Seversky/Sperry  Chapter 2 42 43 The Army's Pursuit of Precision Bombing C-1 was too complex and the C-2 too expensive at $30,000, while the Estoppey D-2 was too inaccurate and the D-3 required redesign. The hope was that the Inglis/Sperry L-1 would meet Fechet's need.59 Fechet wanted results, not excuses. The Air Corps chief demanded im- mediate action: "The question of expense to be incurred in this matter is decidedly of secondary consideration."60 A bombardment board under the presidency of Maj. Hugh J. Knerr echoed Fechet's concerns. It is the sense of the Board that the situation is exceeding acute, and demands prompt and positive action by all concerned in order to secure at once a precision sight for existing bombardment aviation and to pro- vide for a development program that will insure keeping ahead of other nations. ... [A] bombing formation is of no more value than the bomb sight installed therein. ... The Board is of the belief that the question of cost should not be considered. . . . The effectiveness of bombardment cannot exceed that of the sight employed.61 Seversky would only sell for "large cash payments and royalties,"62 chal- lenging Fechet's words. The chief of the Air Corps concluded that the Air Corps would simply have to pay Seversky's price. Assuming personal charge of the deliberations, Fechet negotiated a