S. Air Force Air University Office of History, National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, Norden Systems Division of United Technolo- gies, and the National Archives. Text selections are with permission as follows: selections from The Fall of Fortresses: A Personal Account of the Most Daring-and Deadly-Air Battles of World War II by Elmer Bendiner, publisher Putnam's Sons. Copyright @ 1980. Reprinted by permission of the author. Selections from Mission with LeMay by Curtis E. LeMay and MacKinlay Kantor, copyright @ 1965 by Curtis E. LeMay and MacKinlay Kantor. Reprinted by permission of Doubleday, a division of Bantam Dou- bleday, Dell Publishing Group. Selections from High Honor, edited by Stu- art Leuthner and Oliver Jensen, copyright @ 1989. Reprinted by permis- sion of the Smithsonian Institution Press. Curtis LeMay quote from The Making of the Atomic Bomb, copyright @ 1986 by Richard Rhodes. Re- printed by permission of Simon & Schuster, Inc. Selections from The Price  A Note on Terms A major difficulty in writing a history covering three and a half decades of the twentieth century is the changing spelling for new words created dur- ing the period and the changing names and designations of units, organiza- tions, and equipments. In World War I the person dropping bombs from an aircraft was generally referred to as a bomber. By the 1920s the term bombardier had come into common use, though the U.S. Navy and the British continued to use air bomber into the 1930s and World War II, re- spectively. Until World War II, bombsight was generally two words (bomb sight). For simplicity in this history, bombardiers dropped bombs by aim- ing through bombsights. In 1907 the air force of the U.S. Army was the Aeronautical Division of the Signal Corps. In 1914 it became the Signal Corps Aviation Section. In 1918 it became the Air Service, though not officially until June 4, 1920. In July 1926 it became the Army Air Corps (with an additional General Headquart