,"62 chal- lenging Fechet's words. The chief of the Air Corps concluded that the Air Corps would simply have to pay Seversky's price. Assuming personal charge of the deliberations, Fechet negotiated a $282,000 contract with Seversky (the designer) and Sperry (the manufacturer) for thirty-five C-4s (later reduced to twenty-eight), "embodying your latest ideas in a complete redesign," despite the opinion of the Materiel Division's experts that each bombsight would probably cost $34,500. Production would commence only if three prototypes won Air Corps approval. Delays forced money for the project to be carried over twice to new fiscal years by special acts of Congress. Fechet also authorized the immediate purchase of six L-1s from Sperry for $8,712.63 Despite the chief's attention, another crisis in Army bombing accuracy hit in August 1931, only three months before Fechet's retirement. The Navy made a surplus World War I cargo ship, the USS Mount Shasta, 64 available as a target for bombing in 1931. The 2nd Bombardment Group's Maj. Herbert A. Dargue, at the head of nine aircraft equipped with the Estoppey D-4, had great difficulty finding the target 60 miles off the North Carolina coast and achieved only two hits on the 400-foot cargo vessel with 300-pound bombs, one of which failed to explode. To the great chagrin of the Air Corps, the Mount Shasta had to be sunk by fire from nearby Coast Guard vessels to keep it from becoming a threat to mari- time traffic. The press had a field day: "Obsolete Vessel Takes Best That Army Can Offer" and "Buh-Lam! Missed Again." The Navy leaked the following poem to the press. Oh Navy, take back your coast defense, For we find that the sea is rough; We thought on one hand it would help us expand- We find we are not so tough. The sea is your right, you hold it by might; We would if we could, but we can't. It seems that the sea is entirely Navy- Army planes should remain o'er land, the land, the land Army planes should remain o'er the la