o fix the front cross wire on the target for a period equal to the number of second it would take for the bomb to fall from that altitude to the target. The operator moved the rear cross wire back an amount equal to the change in the distance between the front and rear cross wires during that period, which corresponded to trail. Sights using these techniques were called tir calculate an average speed over a time interval. d timing sights. The effect was to The second method for determining ground speed involved flying a straight course for a prolonged time to calculate the effects of wind on the flight of the aircraft. Because such smooth and level flights exposed the bomber to defensive fire for a time longer than the other two methods, airmen rarely used the drift method except in early bombsights. The technique was effective at low altitudes. where an approximation of the wind speed allowed quick ground speed calculations without a significant loss of accuracy. The third means for determining ground speed was the synchronous method. Rather than measuring a fixed point's movement relative to the aircraft, it mea- sured the movement of the aircraft relative to a fixed point on the ground. The bombardier carefully held the bombsight's cross hairs fixed on a point until the rotational speed of a wheel or gear in the sight's mechanism could be synchronized with the movement of the aircraft relative to the fixed point. Whereas the timing bombsight provided an average speed over a time interval, the synchronous sight matched the speed at the point of measurement and was updated continuously as long as the bombardier kept the cross hairs fixed on an object on the ground. Once synchronized, no other adjustments were necessary for the period of the bomb- ing run. The problem with the timing method was that it was an average determination of ground speed and required a long, level bomb run to achieve an accurate mea- surement. This exposed the aircraft and crew to enemy def