n targets were consistent with the strategy of daylight precision strategic bombing. Returning to Berlin on March 18, 1945, 1,251 B-17s and B-24s attacked precision targets (two railroad stations, a locomotive works, and an ar- mored vehicle plant), but clouds and the resulting need to use H,X turned the mission into area bombing. Eighth Air Force's three air divi- sions averaged circular errors of 2.46, 0.73, and 2.27 miles. In urban, con- 185 Precision Strategic Bombing against Germany gested Berlin, any bomb missing by these distances would invariably land on civilian areas. The intent was precision bombing, the effect terror bombing.48 Initiating area attacks late in the war was not evidence of the failure of precision strategic bombing. Billy Mitchell and the faculty of the Air Corps Tactical School wrote that civilian morale might become a target when it was most vulnerable after a daylight precision strategic bombing cam- paign. Beginning in February 1945, civilian morale had become the choke- point in the German war effort. The limits of technology often turned precision bombing into area bombing, but the Army Air Forces remained committed to the doctrine of daylight precision strategic bombing until the end. American airmen intentionally aimed fewer than 4 percent of their bombs at German civilians. 49 A combination of factors contributed to the lack of accuracy in daylight precision strategic bombing. The Air Corps Tactical School faculty could not have foreseen the quality or quantity of German defenses. According to the Strategic Bombing Survey, enemy opposition required an "increase in altitude, size of attacking force, and size of box," all contributing to inaccurate bombing. Crews misidentified targets, improperly leveled their gyroscopes, and cut bomb runs short. On visual missions, each additional 100 feet of altitude caused an increase in circular error of 6.1 feet, the result of increased atmospheric influences and the effect of additional pure ox