sighting bomb to check for bombsight leveling, altitude settings, disk speed, wind, and other vari- ables before beginning official bombing for record, though a revised regu- lation prohibited such aids in 1935. General Headquarters Air Force (GHQAF) pushed the high-altitude drops to 15,000 feet in 1936, but lim- ited fuel and aircraft forced units to drop most practice bombs between 8,000 and 12,000 feet. Targets were generally circles marked on the ground in the middle of wide-open bombing ranges, though the Air Corps did simulate attacks on industries, bridges, locks, and cities.2 The outbreak of war in Europe in September 1939 encouraged Chief of the Air Corps Henry H. Arnold to establish a 16-week program in bom- bardier training at Lowry Field, Denver, to meet anticipated needs (see Table 9.1). Arnold clashed with Maj. Gen. Delos C. Emmons, command- ing general of GHQAF, over which office would bear responsibility for this training, delaying Lowry's opening by nine months. In July 1940 Ar- nold, with the support of Chief of Staff George C. Marshall, assumed re- sponsibility for the bombardier training program and pushed ahead with Lowry training. He appointed Fred L. Anderson, who would later lead American bombers against Germany, commander of the school. The first class consisted of pilot-training washouts, with eighteen graduating in Oc- tober 1940. Fifty-two in November 1940 and fifty in January 1941 fol- lowed, before all began a 10-week "service test class" to prepare them as bombardier instructors for the thousands of civilians then beginning to pour into the Air Corps' training program.3 In 1941 Arnold expanded the successful Lowry program to Barksdale Field, Louisiana, and Ellington Field, Texas. Arnold's decisions to use the first three classes of Lowry graduates as instructors for bombardier schools  152 Chapter 9 The Young Men behind Plexiglas and to increase the 10-week instructor course to 12 weeks in March 1941 delayed progress, but set the basis