e Table D.1). Altimeters were therefore critical to the achievement of accuracy in bombing. Initially these were inaccurate aneroid barometers, using scales marked in feet rather than in pounds of atmospheric pressure. A World War I altimeter at 30,000 feet could be off by as much as 3,500 feet. In 1923 the Air Service's Engineering Division at McCook Field designed a sensitive altimeter especially for bombsight use. The altimeter was not perfected until 1929, but Maj. Jimmy Doolittle used a Kollsman Instrument Company's altimeter in his pioneering blind instrument landing experiments at Mitchel Field, Garden City, New York. Accurate bombing, however, demanded more sensitive and accurate altimeters. One major problem with the barometric pressure altimeter was that it provided the air pressure above sea level, while most Air Corps operations were over land. In the interwar period the Air Corps worked on sonic altimeters for judging alti- tude above land or sea, using whistles and timing the return of the echo. General Electric pursued its commercial applications, but the heavy devices were only use- ful up to about 1,300 feet. A better solution was the radio altimeter, developed by General Electric beginning in 1928. By 1938 a production model was available, providing an instantaneous reading of 50 feet to 5,000 feet above the terrain below, unaffected by air pressure, temperature, humidity, or clouds. In the next year the Radio Corporation of America developed a radio altimeter effective up to 20,000 feet, with an error of plus or minus 200 feet. At $20,000 each, these radio altimeters were too much for military budgets of the 1930s. Available at the start of the war, the less expensive AN/ARN-1 was effective only to 400 feet and the AN/APN-1 only to 4,000. Not surprisingly, the Army Air Forces's Armament Laboratory at Wright Field concluded in 1941 that the "largest error in aerial bombing is due to errors in the determination of the altitude (absolute) of the airp