the Norden factory held responsibility for all third- and fourth- level maintenance. In May 1936, to bring order to this process in hopes that improved maintenance would bring better accuracy, Chief of the Air Corps Maj. Gen. Oscar Westover ordered Chanute Field in Illinois to be- gin a formal training course of eight weeks' duration for third-echelon bombsight maintenance officers. Wright Field in Ohio assumed responsi- 161 bility for training enlisted mechanics for the third echelon of maintenance. In February 1938 the Air Corps moved these courses to Lowry Field in Denver, where officers received 135 hours of specialized instruction added on to the general maintenance engineering course. Enlisted men received an expanded 12 weeks of training with the move to Lowry. These original classes at Lowry were spartan. No textbooks existed be- cause of security restrictions and few aircraft were available to allow main- tenance trainees experience in actual bombsight operation. Tactical units complained about the quality of the maintenance personnel sent to them and continued to offer informal training to all bombsight and autopilot maintenance officers and enlisted men. While the Navy provided its per- sonnel with four months of training, the Air Corps was providing only three months. By the beginning of World War II in Europe, the Air Corps had only seventy-five qualified bombsight repairmen. The "Augmentation Program" of 1939 required Lowry to boost its training program to twelve new graduates each month. The 1940 program called for class sizes in- creased to forty-eight students, training two shifts per day. Pressures from the Norden Company changed the program even more. In May 1940 a trip by a Norden Company representative to inspect bomb- sight operations at Barksdale Field resulted in a scathing report to the chief of the Air Corps. Of the training maintenance men received, he said, "half of what they were taught at Lowry Field is wrong." The Air Corps re- sponded