mbsight production ... against any remote possibility of loss.36 Norden invested much time and money in his bombsight designs and would have never regained his investment without the Navy's special ar- rangement. The United States probably would have been denied the best bombsight in the world without it. That Norden and the United States benefited from the arrangement was beyond question. There were other bombsight manufacturers for the United States, but Norden had no other customers for his wares because he refused to sell to foreign governments. If Congress intended "to make the industry a model of traditional, laissez- faire capitalism," as historian Jacob Vander Meulen has asserted, then BuOrd exempted Carl L. Norden, Inc., from Congress' intent.37 While the Army sought bombsights through a multitude of sources, advertising for bids on projects in keeping with federal law, the Navy fo- cused its efforts on Carl L. Norden exclusively. Congress clearly intended for the services to advertise for all purchases and contracts with a series of laws beginning in 1861. A series of amendments to the original law pro- vided exceptions only in specific cases: the need for immediate delivery, if there were only one source, if a patent restricted production to the patent holder, if the contract covered replacement parts for items already in use, in an emergency, or when impractical. Contracts for experimental equip- ment were to be negotiated on a fixed-price or cost-plus basis, but all pro- duction contracts were to be through competitive bidding.38 Section 10(a) of the Air Corps Act of July 2, 1926, required the secretar- ies of war and the Navy to advertise for bids, but Section 10(k) allowed negotiated contracts for experimental development. The Navy's develop- ment contract with Norden was legal, but the production contracts were not. The Navy went around these restrictions by relying in part on Section 10(k), which allowed negotiated bids with developers if the experi