quate information, making initial New Departure production unsatisfactory. The Army Air Forces had to order Victor to produce its bombsights with greater tolerances than stated in Norden specifications to allow it to use New Departure Division bearings. Greater tolerances had a negative impact on the inherent accuracy of Victor- produced Norden bombsights. By mid-1943 Barden and SKF production, including a new SKF plant at Gwynnedd, Pennsylvania, overcame the shortage.17 One year after Pearl Harbor the Army Air Forces faced a bleak situa- tion. In the first year of war American industry had produced only 6,900 Norden bombsights, of which 75 percent had gone to the Navy. Too many Army bombers were flying without precision bombsights. As a stopgap measure the Army Air Forces accelerated the procurement of the Sperry S-1 bombsight, development of which Wright Field had stopped in the 1930s as a cost-cutting measure. In 1936 Maj. Gen. Frank Andrews, com- manding general of GHQAF, wrote Acting Chief of the Air Corps Brig. Gen. Henry Arnold to request the Air Corps attempt to develop and ac- quire Sperry bombsights as a solution to continuing problems with Norden-Navy production. The Air Corps saw Sperry as a means to force Norden to "move it" with the increased production of bombsights modi- fied to fit Air Corps needs. According to the chief of the Materiel Division, Brig. Gen. Augustine W. Robins, the intent was to create another source of bombsight supply to force Norden to cut costs, make improvements to the M-series bombsight, and increase production, even if the Army had to make "some concessions" as to quality.18 Ted Barth saw the Air Corps' decision as a threat that would "tend to undermine confidence as well as interest in the M-1 [Norden] sight" though Sperry bombsights were "inferior ... as to accuracy but also as to tactical value." The S-1 would be a new bombsight, but Barth believed any Sperry design to be little more than a "slightly modified L-1 with perh