. The significance of this area fire bombing was not lost on LeMay.13 XX Bomber Command's record was mixed, with the attack on Anshan its only notable success. Training and experience proved priceless. MATTERHORN units be- gan moving to Guam and Tinian in the spring of 1945. In ten months XX Bomber Command dropped 11,244 tons of bombs, 29 percent of which were incendiaries (see Table 11.1). The capture of Guam, Tinian, and Saipan in the summer of 1944 over- came the need for MATTERHORN. XXI Bomber Command began its stra- tegic bombing of Japan from the Mariana Islands in November 1944. The Joint Chiefs of Staff ordered its commander, Brig. Gen. Haywood S. Hansell Jr., to "achieve the earliest possible progressive dislocation of the Japanese military, industrial, and economic systems and to undermine the morale of the Japanese people to a point where their capacity and will to wage war was decisively weakened." Targets were the aircraft industry, ar- senals, electronic plants, oil refineries, and finished military goods. Han- sell's orders also called for firebomb attacks on Japanese cities to test their vulnerability. Rather than an assault on the more basic elements in Japan's economy, as the Air Corps Tactical School would have had it, this was to be an attempt to weaken the ability of the Japanese to resist an invasion. 14 Hansell was a key figure behind daylight precision strategic bombing both at the Air Corps Tactical School and as a member of the Air War Plans Division. He sent twenty-four B-29s after the Nakajima Musashino aircraft engine plant in Tokyo on November 24, 1944. Although skies were clear for this first mission, bombardiers discovered a force of nature that would make precision bombing from high altitudes nearly impossible. The jet stream, a weather phenomenon only revealed when B-29s flew above 30,000 feet, pushed the ground speed of B-29s to 445 MPH-too fast for the Norden bombsight. Musashino officials reported all bombs missed.15 Weather offi