eet. Hofstetter attributed this progress to gyroscopic stabilization, improved optical sights, refined mechanical components, and continuous synchronous sighting. "However," the bombsight expert concluded, "if the Air Corps expects to take up extremely low-altitude bombing, there is no doubt but that much more accurate results could be expected than from high altitudes."47 Hofstetter's contradictory reply raised an interesting question for 85 Walker. If Army bombsights were as effective as the Materiel Division re- ported (and they were not), was low-altitude bombing necessarily superior to high-altitude bombing? Common sense dictated it was, but Walker wanted proof. In a series of letters from 1929 to 1931, Walker put the question to operational units and ordnance men. Maj. Ralph Royce, com- manding the 1st Pursuit Group at Selfridge Field, Michigan, wrote back that it made no difference. At high altitudes, navigation was easier, and with accurate bombsights targets could be destroyed. At low altitudes, nav- igation was still possible and, again, targets could be destroyed. The com- mander of the Air Corps Advanced Flying School, Bombardment Section, at Kelly Field, Texas, responded that he was "absolute against" low-altitude bombing. Because of bombs ricocheting at low altitudes, "the bombing would always be very inaccurate" while "losses would be terrible." The Air Corps, he said, needed a high-altitude heavy bomber.48 Lt. Muir S. Fairchild at the Procurement Section of the Supply Division at Santa Monica, California, wrote that he opposed any consideration of low-altitude bombing because survival meant high speeds, which required unsafe landing speeds. He therefore suggested the Air Corps pursue high- altitude bombing. Maj. Gen. Henry D. Todd Jr., commandant of the Ar- my's Coast Artillery School at Fort Monroe, Virginia, reported that anti- aircraft artillery would be more effective against low-altitude bombers. The commander of the 11th Bombing Squadron at Roc