hicle Equipment Company, Lidgerwood Manu- facturing Company, and finally Sperry Gyroscope Company in 1910. El- mer Sperry hired the Dutchman to solve problems associated with the gy- roscopic stabilization of ships. Norden became acquainted with the U.S. Navy while at Sperry and acquired great practical knowledge of gyro- scopes. He also learned to loathe Sperry's voracious appetite for patents. Sperry learned to loathe Norden's voracious appetite for "vile black ci- gars."16 After receiving what he thought was an insulting $25-per-week raise for solving the tendency of Sperry's gyroscopes to oscillate, Norden quit to become a consulting engineer. Sperry took Norden's resignation as a personal affront, beginning a half century of conflict between the Sperry Company and Norden. Sperry felt he had taught Norden everything he knew about gyroscopes and therefore should share in any of Norden's fu- ture patents. Norden felt Sperry would have tried to patent gravity if the Patent Office had allowed his claim. In 1913 Norden established an office as a consulting engineer in the shadow of the Brooklyn Naval Yard. He continued to work on Sperry's ship stabilization project for the Navy, attempting to substitute a small gy- roscope with a movable counterweight for Sperry's unworkable giant gyro- scope. While on one test voyage, Norden showed his nerve and resolve, performing a successful emergency appendectomy. The slow pace of the project and the absence of any clear successes encouraged the Navy to drop the stabilization project and transfer Norden to work on catapults for ship- borne aircraft and aerial torpedoes with Hannibal Ford and Charles Ket- tering. After the war he also designed the hydraulic landing gear and re- straining hooks for the aircraft carriers Saratoga and Lexington. Although he lived in the United States for 43 years, Norden never be- came an American citizen. On three occasions he went to court to become a naturalized American citizen, but each time on