every weekend, operating on a peacetime schedule of five days a week, 8:00 to 5:30. Not until February 1941 did it consider extending the work week. That month it also granted raises to most employees, not to encourage increased production, but to forestall union activity. Accuracy still counted more than speed of manufacture.62 The chief of the Materiel Division at Wright Field summed up the Air Corps' frustrations with the Navy-Norden arrangement: "The procure- ment situation, boiled down, amounts to the fact that the Navy takes Air Corps money and delivers a bombsight which may or may not be satisfac- tory to the Air Corps at such time as it is convenient for the Navy to deliver same."63 Prompted by the SBAE snafu, Maj. Gen. Frank Andrews, com- manding general of GHQAF, threatened to go to the secretary of war, or higher if necessary, to get a meeting with Norden to present the Army's case and "break down the wall of secrecy around the Norden Company." BuOrd reluctantly agreed to a meeting on July 29, 1937. Andrews repre- sented the Air Corps, supported by four colonels, two lieutenant colonels, and a major. Barth and Norden attended for Carl L. Norden, Inc. BuOrd expressed its disregard for the proceedings, sending only Cdr. Malcolm Schoeffel. Andrews identified the many technologies the Air Corps was making available to the Navy, including aircraft engines, automatic gun turrets, fire control systems, aircraft, and navigation equipment. Other than the Norden bombsight, he argued, the Navy was giving the Army nothing in return. The Air Corps wanted modifications to the Norden bombsight allowing greater speeds, glide bombing, and higher and lower altitudes; greater access to Carl L. Norden, Inc .; complete design informa- tion; and the SBAE. Lt. Col. Oliver Echols, chief of the Materiel Division, expressed disbelief that the Navy, "by means unknown to me," could con- tract for Norden bombsights without advertising for bids-actions the War Department would not all