mart" bombs functioned as effectively as this gaggle on similar strikes against Iraqi power-generation stations. Indeed, the average miss distance of a laser-guided bomb was less than 10 feet, the average for a conventional "dumb" bomb about 300 feet. Both figures would have been greeted with incredulity by even the most ardent champion of "precision bombing" during the Second World War. For those reasons, then, one must be careful to note that the relativity of precision means that the "miss" of today is not typically the literal "mile" of yesterday. Further, in today's world, the effect of multiple hundreds or even thousands of pounds of high explosive from a "missed" conventional bomb detonating several hundred feet or so from a "soft" target is usually indistinguishable in its final, grim result from a "hit" bomb directly upon it. But if precision is relative, it is nevertheless a quest that has occupied the American military-and other services in other nations as well-for a long time. It is tempting to state that the quest for precision is a peculiarly American one, traceable to the enshrinement of the frontier marksman and incorporating all the best elements of a New World desire to minimize the horror of war and the danger of the euphemistically named "collateral damage" to noncombatants. In fact, many of these elements are present in the history of the American quest for surgical strike. But the quest is pri- marily pragmatically rooted in the desire for strong, focused military ef- fect, as reflected in the robust efforts other nations have made-particu- larly since the Second World War-to develop their own precision-attack capabilities. This subject-the post-Second World War development of the precision weapons and precision navigational technologies now em- bedded in the military capabilities of advanced nations-is one that richly deserves its own book, a "volume two" to the present work which, one hopes, Professor McFarland will write. Just why is precis