cture that could make the city unliv- able-water, electricity, and transportation. Research included aerial pho- tographs added by Herbert Dargue, a pioneer in aerial reconnaissance. Students learned that choke-points could be physically apparent, such as tunnels or bridges critical to transportation systems, or not physically ap- parent, such as ball bearings at the foundation of an industrial economy.16 ACTS instructors classified targets into two categories, area and preci- sion, and developed separate tactics for each. A precision target was a bridge, ship, or similar compact aiming point to be attacked by individual bombers each aiming separately. In the words of Field Manual 1-10 (1932),  94 Chapter 5 95 Air Corps Adopts Bombing Strategy "Tactics and Techniques of Air Attack," "precision targets are those, which ... require either a direct hit by a bomb of the proper size or a hit within a limited distance therefrom." The choice of the term "area" was unfortu- nate, because planners had in mind the precision bombing of a large target. FM 1-10 defined area targets as "those which require a distribution of bombs of the proper size throughout the area in which the definite targets lie." In 1938 the Air Corps conducted area bombing exercises at Lake Muroc in California. The target was 900 by 2,400 feet, representing large targets such as harbors, airfields, or factories. A lead aircraft signaled other aircraft in the formation when to bomb, later known as "dropping on leader." Each bomber released its bombs at regular intervals, "in train," to achieve a sufficiently wide distribution of explosions to destroy the entire area. 17 The doctrine of daylight precision strategic bombing evolved at the ACTS without challenge.18 No one stepped forward to question whether bomb-aiming was sufficiently accurate to destroy precision targets. These targets of the industrial fabric seemed large and easy to hit, covering tens of thousands of square feet, easily distinguishable fr