with Norden and BuOrd, none proved ef- fective.55 Carl Norden completed his design for the GBA in February 1941, but admitted that it increased the bombsight's inherent errors because of the difficulty of accurate altitude determination. Tests at Dahlgren and Wright Field proved him wrong, though the GBA had a maximum ceiling of 15,000 feet, well below the 20,000 feet that the British experience in Eu- rope dictated for safety from antiaircraft fire. Pearl Harbor interrupted development, but the services ordered it included on Mod. 5/M-7s pre- viously ordered. The GBA added $2,500 to the price of the Norden Mark 15 (the Navy switched to Arabic numbers in World War II) bombsight, nearly 60 percent of the price of the original Norden Mark XV. An Army- Navy disagreement over the maximum altitude of the GBA delayed pro- duction until August 1943, when reports from Europe on the effectiveness of German antiaircraft fire forced a compromise.56 The production-model GBA allowed glides of up to 150 feet per second and climbs up to 45 feet per second at altitudes up to 20,000 feet. Norden completed only 107 units before Arnold froze procurement until Carl Norden could modify the GBA to work up to 25,000 feet. Production be- gan again in August 1944, but the GBA did not appear in sufficient num- bers to have a significant impact before the end of the war.57 Combat conditions caused other problems with the Norden bombsight, including congealed lubricating oils caused by the extreme temperatures found at high altitudes. A General Electric-designed heating cover and improved lubricants solved the problem. Low temperatures and clear air at high altitudes also intensified a problem known as "bombardier's eye," caused by rough air banging the Norden's hard rubber eyepiece against the bombardier's eye socket and by harsh glare from the sun. B. F. Goodrich of Akron, Ohio, manufactured a soft "free resisting" neoprene eyepiece and various firms produced treated optics to reduce glare.5