did not have the performance to follow the fleet to sea and were politically vulnerable to "turf" battles with the Army's air arm. Primary Navy targets were ships, difficult to hit because they could maneuver to avoid falling bombs. The Navy therefore committed itself to optimum accuracy against maneuvering targets by a few bombers. The Army could send dozens of aircraft to hit one unmoving target. For the Navy giant plumes of water caused by misses were beautiful but militarily useless. Unlike the Army's Air Service/Air Corps Tactical School, the Navy did not establish a center for the preparation of doctrine for using the new air weapon. Alfred Thayer Mahan, the "high priest of American navalism," most clearly expressed existing Navy doctrine. Although it underwent no critical examination and by the 1920s had not been tested in war, Navy doctrine declared that the key to an industrial nation's power was economic expansion based on overseas trade. The U.S. Navy's objective was to keep open America's trading routes while cutting those of enemy nations. These 45  Chapter 3 46 To Sink Ships sea routes were the choke-points of the enemy, vulnerable to attacks by the battleship, which could attack both commerce and defending enemy ships. The Navy's General Board believed that the function of the Navy was to use battleships to bring "pressure to bear on the enemy by injuring his commerce."I The airplane encouraged the Naval War College to include studies of bombing accuracy and the damage effect of aerial bombing in its curricu- lum, but the key points of study remained battleship tactics. If the airplane were to assume a key position in Navy doctrine, it would do so because of the actions of generally young air officers. During exercises and tests they would force even the crustiest shellback to recognize the importance of air power.2 A series of ship-bombing tests that caught the attention of the American public, choreographed by Brig. Gen. Billy Mitchell, became the f