hief of the Materiel Division, expressed disbelief that the Navy, "by means unknown to me," could con- tract for Norden bombsights without advertising for bids-actions the War Department would not allow.  132 Chapter 7 133 Preparation for War Barth criticized the Air Corps for failing to participate in the develop- ment of the SBAE, for not ordering enough bombsights, for wasting $1 million of the taxpayers' money on Sperry bombsights, and for "peddling" Sperry's bombsights abroad.64 Echols blamed Congress for the lack of funds to buy bombsights and Navy and Norden obstruction and secrecy for the SBAE situation. Carl Norden limited his comments to assurances to the Air Corps that he was modifying the Mark XV to meet Air Corps needs. BuOrd's Schoeffel opposed any attempts to improve the Mark XV Mod. 1 bombsight, believing it to be perfect for Navy needs, but promised that the Navy would "assure an adequate supply for both services in an emergency." Andrews had to accept what Norden and BuOrd offered, be- cause they were the Air Corps' sole source of bombsights at the time.65 Brig. Gen. Henry Arnold, acting chief of the Air Corps, expressed the bottom line to the chief of the Materiel Division: "The M-1 sight still appears to be superior to any other now available." The only way to get the Navy or Norden to increase production would be to declare a national emergency. Like it or not, the Army was stuck with the Navy and Norden. A lack of funds forced the Air Corps to halt all other bombsight projects and limit procurement to Norden bombsights.66 When Germany invaded Poland on September 1, 1939, Norden had just started production of the new Mark XV Mod. 4. One day later BuOrd Chief Rear Adm. William R. Furlong called Ted Barth and ordered him to increase the level of production immediately. Unfortunately it was too late. The Navy had eighty Mod. 4s on order and the Army 469, and it would be months before these prewar orders were ready. In Norden's defense, it made litt