lying Curtiss F6C-2 fighters, simulated a dive-bombing attack on the Pacific Fleet in the first fleet demonstration of the technique. Div- ing from 12,000 feet at a nearly vertical angle, the squadron gained com- plete surprise and "so impressed fleet and ship commanders with the effec- tiveness of their spectacular approach that there was unanimous agreement that such an attack would succeed over any defense." Again the diving fighters dropped no bombs, so survivability, not accuracy, was the key fac- tor in this demonstration.56 Two months later, Reeves, then a rear admiral and commanding Aircraft Squadrons, Battle Fleet, observed the first formal dive-bombing exercises during annual fleet gunnery competition. One marine and two Navy fighter squadrons and three Navy observation squadrons participated, making 45-degree dives (technically glides) from 2,500 feet and dropping 25-pound practice bombs at 400 feet. Lieutenant Commander Wagner's VF-2 squadron scored nineteen hits out of forty-five drops on a 100- by 45-foot target. Dive bombing was on its way to becoming the standard method of attack for the Navy's air force.57 A combination of bombing techniques, dive, torpedo, and horizontal, converted the U.S. Navy from a fleet built around battleships to one in which the aircraft carrier was the primary offensive weapon. These tech- niques developed in fleet exercises at sea. In Fleet Problem Number 2, held in the winter of 1923/24, the Black Fleet had four simulated carriers and deployed its 100 aircraft as scouts for the fleet. In Joint Army-Navy Problem No. 2, January 14-19, 1924, held in the Panama Canal Zone, each side had carrier-borne and land-based aircraft. Naval aircraft struck with torpedoes while Army Martin bombers attacked from 3,000 feet in level flight. Umpires credited aircraft with one destroyer sunk, two de- stroyers and a tender disabled, and one aircraft carrier damaged.58 By 1926 air power had become an essential ingredient in all Navy exer- cis