was the only country "deserving his invention and the only country which he felt would use it with judgment and dis- cretion."7 A series of public revelations in 1939 proved embarrassing. Time maga- zine carried a story about the sinking of the HMS Ark Royal and asserted that the American Army had a bombsight that would allow it to sink such ships from altitudes above 18,000 feet. Collier's reported that the Army's bombsight was the envy of the world, produced in a small factory in the east run by two civilian engineers. Collier's also claimed that the Japanese had recently requested a quotation on this company's bombsights in lots of 500.8 In 1940 both services received a momentary scare from an Englishman identified as Capt. E. W. Percival, who contacted the Air Corps about pur- chasing a Norden bombsight. He claimed the Germans had stolen one and transported it to Germany on the last trip of the steamship Bremen. Perci-  116 Chapter 7 117 Preparation for War val wanted a Norden bombsight so that England could prepare defenses against it. Enlisting the FBI again, the Air Corps inventoried its bomb- sights and demanded signed affidavits from bombsight equipment officers. No Nordens were missing.9 Carl Norden provided his own security scare in May 1940. He left New York aboard the USS George Washington intent on a trip to Switzerland to concentrate on an antiaircraft artillery fire-control system for the Navy and to be with his family in Zurich. The Army, fearing that the British might attempt to remove him from the ship at Gibraltar, requested inter- cession at the highest level. President Roosevelt ordered the FBI to assign an agent to act as a "chaperon to Norden, [and] serve as protection." Nor- den similarly worried that the British might try to detain him "perma- nently" and asked Adm. Harold R. Stark, the chief of naval operations, to send an American destroyer to Lisbon to transport him to Genoa, avoiding Gibraltar.10 The root of the problem was a Navy inter