exington. Although he lived in the United States for 43 years, Norden never be- came an American citizen. On three occasions he went to court to become a naturalized American citizen, but each time one or more of his witnesses failed to appear. On the third occasion an immigration judge gave him a severe dressing-down. For Norden, that ended the issue forever. In his mind, any country that would allow the dregs of the world to become citi- zens, but would deny him the same right, was not deserving of his alle- giance. Later Norden would tell his few close acquaintances that his Dutch citizenship provided him with leverage in his dealings with the U.S. gov- ernment, leverage he felt a citizen would not have. Before World War II, according to his family, the British government offered him a knighthood in return for emigrating to Great Britain to build bombsights and other instruments, which caused his American employers some anxious mo- ments. There was no need for concern; Norden believed no respectable Dutchman could ever work for the British. Norden held representative republican democracy as the most perfect form of government, but was, according to his son, "essentially an elitist who believed that human progress was the achievement of the lonely few guided by Divine Providence." The common people were not to be trusted, as they would follow anyone, but representative republican gov- ernment best prevented tyrants who could suppress a people's creative abil- ities. Norden's thinking also reflected a touch of European ethnocentrism, or perhaps racism. The sun, he believed, was destructive of mental capabil- ities. Northern people, where the sun shown most obliquely, "were the most creative in science." A suntan was a symbol of mental weakness. Although he was not a political man, Norden's three great hatreds were Hitler, Hirohito, and Franklin Roosevelt, the latter because he had de- faulted on the gold clause in U.S. bonds and gold certificates. For Norden this w