d have to do. When compared to the Mark III, the Mark XI demonstrated a significant increase in accuracy. From an altitude of 6,500 feet, the Mark III averaged a circular error of 311 feet, while the Mark XI averaged 196 feet. Develop- ment costs had been nearly $75,000 and production costs $384,800.43 The Army expressed an interest in the Mark XI, but for several years received little more than vague Navy descriptions of its capabilities and promise. Army representatives did not observe testing until 1928. Wright Field's engineers deemed the Norden sight inferior to the Estoppey D-1, but superior to the Estoppey D-4. The Air Corps felt the Mark XI's biggest  62 Chapter 3 To Sink Ships shortcoming was its utilization of the inferior timing method: "This sight, while an example of splendid workmanship, is a timing sight of extremely poor theoretical accuracy." When an Army representative asked if Norden was considering a synchronous sight, Barth replied: "He does not, at pres- ent, intend to develop a synchronous sight comparable to the L [Inglis/ Sperry] or C [Seversky/Sperry] series, but ... after these sights are com- pleted by the Sperry Company, he may take up such development along the lines studied by him some years ago." Barth probably lied, as Norden was already considering just such a sight. The Army, desperate for any decent bombsight, ordered fifteen Norden Mark XI bombsights in 1932 for $150,000, but switched the order to the new Norden synchronous Mark XV before production of the Mark XIs had begun.44 Norden did not ship the first three production Mark XIs to the Navy for testing until early 1929. Theodore Barth witnessed every aspect of tests at the Dahlgren Naval Proving Ground and had a hand in designing the tests.45 While Dahlgren struggled with the complex sights, production of the essentially handmade Mark XI continued at a rate of only three per month. BuAer decided that the fleet's bombsight situation was so poor that even imperfect Nordens woul