resident of Carl L. Norden, Inc., "perhaps the most important advance in the art of precision bombing will have been accomplished when, through the use of automatic flight control, the bombardier will no longer require, nor be dependent on, the pilot's assistance and ability to maintain a correct target course."34 During World War I research at the Royal Aircraft Factory in London revealed that aircraft oscillations were a primary factor influencing bomb- ing accuracy. The factory concluded that the development of a mechanical pilot connected to a bombsight might eliminate human-caused oscilla- tions.35 Until automatic control could become reality, the key technology for improving bombsight accuracy in these bombers was the pilot direction indicator (PDI). Once a bombardier located a target, some means had to be found to inform the pilot of the correct course to fly so that the aircraft's ground track would intersect the aiming point. In World War I the com- mon means was by hand signals if the bombardier sat in front of the pilot, by taps on the shoulder or tugs on strings attached to the arms of the pilot if behind. The most precise bombsight in the world was no more accurate than the communications taking place in these crude fashions. After the war the Air Service initiated an intensive program to improve the means of transferring directional information from the bombardier to the pilot.36 Products of this program included the B-1 turn indicator, which sig- naled the need for a turn to the pilot, but not the degree of turn. Others included the A-0, A-1, A-3, D-1, D-2, and D-3, developed by the Sperry Gyroscope Company, Pioneer Instrument Company, and others. By the late 1920s the D-1 PDI had become standardized for Army use. The bom- bardier manually turned a control knob while checking on the target's po- sition through the bombsight and on the aircraft heading through a com- pass. A direct flexible coupling moved an arrow on the pilot's gauge, showing the dire