r how prepared or otherwise alert the defender may be. On the opening night of the Gulf War, for example, a small number of F-117 stealth fighters armed with laser-guided bombs shattered Iraq's air defense network, key command and control facilities, and key leadership targets, opening Iraq up to predatory follow-on conventional attackers. Within minutes of the opening of the war, then, the ultimate fate of Iraq's military machine had been cast. Such would have been unthinkable in pre- vious conflicts. Finally, precision attack reduces to a great degree the tradi- tional high "misery factor" present in previous wars. It reduces the human  Foreword xii losses of both attacker and defender by targeting more precisely. (The reader may mentally compare, for example, the images of Berlin after V-E day and Baghdad after the ceasefire.) Above all, and certainly since the advent of precision munitions, any nation contemplating aggression against a country possessing precision weapons now realizes that the results of a decision to go to war may be the utter destruction of its military machine. Thus, there is a deterrence value in precision attack that acts to constrain the impulses of would-be aggres- sors. This book is important because it traces the roots of the precision notion, when individuals of diverse motivation and background sought to ensure greater accuracy in air attack, typified by the "bomb in a pickle barrel" claims for the legendary Norden bombsight. If their vision far ex- ceeded their grasp, it was their vision that helped generate the world in which we now live-a world characterized by precision in everything hu- manity does: from science and technology to, for both better and worse, the way wars of the late twentieth century are waged. Acknowledgments RICHARD P. HALLION The general rule in historical writing is that publications are the product of many historians, as new works are based on what previous historians have written. In the current case, no bod