ers and handled so differently through the SBAE/AFCE systems that significant retraining had to accompany any transfer to a combat unit. For all its faults, the training program produced the most qualified per- sonnel of any air force in the world, in larger numbers and faster. The greatest weakness of American bombsight training was in expectation, not quality, numbers, or speed. The Army Air Forces had adopted a strategic doctrine based on high-altitude daylight precision bombing, which se- verely complicated the training process. In too little time, men had to learn to drop bombs into "pickle barrels," to use the idiom of the time, from over four miles up and to maintain and repair the most complicated pieces of mechanical technology yet designed. The training program's greatest weakness was the failure to reproduce warlike conditions during training. According to Curtis LeMay, Anybody could bomb a friendly distinct white circle, there on the ground. No smog, no industrial haze, no seven-tenths cloud. The area wasn't built up. No floundering mass of rail lines, canals, bridges, fac-  164 Chapter 9 tories, docks, civilian residential areas, hospitals, oil tanks, prisoner-of- war concentrations-no mangled puzzle of things to be attacked and things to be missed at all hazards.36 World War I belt-driven bombing trainer in France. The "bomber" or bomb-aimer sighted his Michelin bombsight onto a canvas belt containing terrain features. Support personnel simulated flight by cranking the belt. (Source: USAF Historical Research Agency.) And there could be no training for the threat of enemy defenses-flak thick enough to walk on and fighters with guns blazing, closing at speeds over 500 MPH, heading right for the bombardier in his plexiglas position. Such training, if such training were possible, would have to come from war. World War II powered bombing trainer. The bombardier sighted his Norden bombsight on a powered "crab" target. The movement of the trainer across the g