ave given Power of Attorney signifying entire confidence on my part." Barth de- scribed himself as "just a lathe hand gone Hollywood," although a close friend and Air Corps officer, Herbert A. Dargue, called him a "composite of Albert Einstein, Henry Ford, and Mahatma Gandhi."22 He was "as great a leader," in the opinion of those privileged to be employees, "as Mr. Nor- den was an inventor. Fun-loving, magnanimous and stable, he was a 'Prince of Light' during the difficult days of prodigious production." He gave away World Series tickets to his employees and rented Madison Square Garden for a private showing of the Ringling Brothers Circus for employees on the occasion of winning an "E" award for wartime pro- duction.23 Barth loved his role, his position, and his contacts. During World War II, at a time of rationing, he maintained a lunch room at the 80 Lafayette Street Norden building for the top thirty people at Norden, serving them lobster, suckling pig, and other gourmet delights. Calling it the "Pickle Barrel Conference Club," Barth also insured the club had well-hidden slot machines for the entertainment of his guests, programmed to always break even. Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia of New York was a common visitor, who, in keeping with his antigambling image, never played the slot ma- chines.24 Carl Norden's son recalled that Barth was more of a father to him than Norden himself, with a heart "as big as his body." After World War II Barth just "wanted to get out of business so he could concentrate on his philanthropic activities and so he could fish."25 Working out of his home and Barth's apartment, using the equipment and skilled labor of the Witteman-Lewis Aircraft Company, Norden deliv- ered the three contracted PDIs and three experimental Mark XI bomb- sights to the Navy in the late winter of 1923 and spring of 1924, respec- tively. All were handmade. He described the bombsight as "a small, compact, optical, stabilized instrument for use on moving targets, wi