did not mention the marines' use of air power in his account of the battle. Later, at the battle of El Chipote, Sandino did recognize the repeated dive-bombing attacks of Marine air- craft, concluding, "In truth, those airplanes caused us very little personal injury, though it's a fact that in the beginning they shocked and worried us a great deal. But later we looked upon them as not much worse than a thunder storm, and we knew very well how to dig ourselves in. But they killed large numbers of cattle and horses." In November 1927 Sandino accused the marines of bombing peaceful villages, killing thirty-two women and eleven children. Carleton Beals, a reporter traveling with San- dino, recorded that Sandino's men overcame the bombings by traveling at night or in areas where the jungle blocked the view from above.54 . While the marines perfected their technique in action, Navy aviators initiated their pursuit of dive bombing in exercises to achieve greater bombing accuracy. In 1925 Capt. Joseph M. Reeves worked with Lt. Frank W. Wead to develop bombing techniques for attacking beach defenses dur- ing amphibious assaults. At the low levels required to minimize the dan- gers of bombing to friendly forces, Reeves discovered antiaircraft fire from enemy defenses would ravage the assaulting aircraft. He ordered his pilots to approach the target at 10,000 feet, diving at up to 70 degrees to mini- mize exposure to ground fire. Working independently, Lt. Cdr. Osbourne B. Hardison led his fighter squadron, VF-2, in a series of dive-bombing attacks on anchored battleships. The squadron dropped no bombs, but Hardison showed how difficult antiaircraft crews would find defending against dive-bombing attacks.55 On October 22, 1926, Squadron VF-2, then under Lt. Cdr. Frank D. Wagner, flying Curtiss F6C-2 fighters, simulated a dive-bombing attack on the Pacific Fleet in the first fleet demonstration of the technique. Div- ing from 12,000 feet at a nearly vertical angle, the squadron