r General Arnold directed the Materiel Division to investigate bombing through overcast. Researchers examined optical filters for conventional bombsights and the use of a pilot aircraft flying below the overcast, controlling a bomb-carrying aircraft flying in or above the overcast. Research into radio waves suggested two other solutions. The  180 Chapter 10 181 Precision Strategic Bombing against Germany first was radio ranging dependent on ground beacons. The second was self- contained systems in which the radio transmissions came from the bomber. The United States did little research into ground beacons during the war, relying instead on British systems. Gee used one master and two sub- ordinate stations transmitting radio pulses. The bomber's equipment mea- sured the differences in time between the arrival of the different transmis- sions. The intersection of the beams and Gee charts allowed the navigator to determine the aircraft's location. Gee had a range of only 300 to 400 miles, was accurate only to within five miles, and was subject to enemy jamming. The Army Air Forces employed it primarily for general navi- gation. Oboe used two ground stations transmitting radio pulses to bomber air- craft. It differed from Gee in that the bomber received the pulses, boosted them, and transmitted them back to the ground stations. Ground stations timed the pulses to measure the range to the aircraft. One station tracked the aircraft over the target while the other determined the bomb release point. Oboe had shorter range than Gee, but could achieve accuracies of several hundred yards. Neither Gee nor Oboe required bombsights. The Army Air Forces used Oboe rarely because of range limitations. Gee-H was Gee plus Oboe in reverse, but required a bombsight. An air- craft carried a transmitter and a receiver, bouncing signals off two ground stations to determine range, which appeared on a scope in the aircraft. Accuracy was similar to Oboe, but with greater range due to a longe