the Navy in the late winter of 1923 and spring of 1924, respec- tively. All were handmade. He described the bombsight as "a small, compact, optical, stabilized instrument for use on moving targets, with ef- ficient pilot directing." An electrically driven gyroscope stabilized the sight on two axes. The bombardier would fix the foresight on the target and use the clock to time an interval equal to one-half the time of bomb fall, ac- cording to predetermined charts, at the current altitude, while adjusting the foresight to keep it fixed on the target. When the timing device reached the appropriate moment, the backsight automatically moved so that it was set at a distance proportional to the ground distance covered by the falling bomb. The backsight determined the range angle for that alti- tude, that type bomb, and that air speed. When the backsight cross hairs intersected the target, the bomb dropped. As the bombardier rotated the Mark XI around its mounting post, the PDI automatically pointed right or left to indicate the correct course for the pilot to fly to match the air- craft's path on the ground to the correct path needed to allow the bomb to hit its target under the influences of wind (drift).26 89  56 Chapter 3 57 To Sink Ships Under tests at the Dahlgren Naval Proving Ground in Virginia, the Mark XI proved "disappointing." Test bombs fell with "alarming irregular- ity." The Navy believed the sight to be too complicated, but Norden re- mained confident that he could correct the problems. Before the Presi- dent's Aircraft Board (Morrow Board), BuAer chief Rear Adm. William A. Moffett claimed that the Navy had under development a bombsight that "is going to be extraordinarily acceptable, and we hope to have it in the near future."27 In early 1925 BuOrd issued Norden a new contract for $3,400 to cover modifications to two of the original experimental sights. Norden added pendulum stabilization to one and made other adjustments, completing his work in June 1925.