en a new contract for $3,400 to cover modifications to two of the original experimental sights. Norden added pendulum stabilization to one and made other adjustments, completing his work in June 1925. Tests that summer and fall at Dahlgren proved the improvements worthwhile. In the final test, eighteen bombs dropped from 3,000 feet achieved a mean point of impact only nine feet short in range, but 187 feet to the right (deflection) of the flight path. The test bombardier was impressed, but reported the sight was much too complex, requiring "both hands, both feet and the teeth" to operate. In an open cockpit, the cold and wind made fine adjustments to the sight nearly impossible.28 Norden viewed the basic design as good and the problems correctable. To facilitate the process, leaving Barth in New York to consult with the Navy and to supervise the machining of parts, Norden moved to Zurich and a year's isolation. The drawings he sent to Barth and the Navy offered sufficient promise for the Navy to issue a contract for $21,650 to cover two new models of Mark XI bombsights and three PDIs, delivered in the late summer and fall of 1926. Continued delays with development of the bombsights forced the Navy to order forty Army D-4 bombsights for $10,798 from the Gaertner Scientific Corporation of Chicago in 1926, with delivery in September 1927.29 In October 1927 the Navy completed testing of the Mark XI. Despite continuing problems with leveling, vibrations, and the PDI, the Navy be- gan negotiations with Norden and Barth for the purchase of eighty sights, complete with PDIs.30 Norden and Barth initially refused to negotiate, preferring to continue their relationship with the Navy as consulting engi- neers, not production contractors. Under encouragement and several un- official promises, the bombsight designers gave in and agreed to form Carl L. Norden, Incorporated, to fulfill the Navy's orders. Barth and Norden each owned 50 percent of the stock, originally valued at $6,0