ee, Carl L. Norden, as a consulting engineer to develop a large flywheel catapult. By August 1917 the lateral and longitudinal controls worked, but the directional control was subject to "creep."29. Four months later the aerial torpedo, with a human pilot to control drift, could fly 50 miles, landing within 580 yards of the target in range and 440 yards in deflection. On March 6, 1918, launched from the Norden catapult, the world's first cruise missile flew 1,000 yards without a human pilot. More aerial torpedoes crashed than flew, so Sperry considered adding radio control for correcting the directional problem. The Navy demurred because of security concerns over the large number of German immigrant workers at the Sperry factory. Sperry even considered having a gyroscope follow the sun at a certain angle to achieve directional control. Progress remained limited and in Jan- uary 1919 the Navy canceled the Sperry project. Carl Norden's catapult so impressed the Navy that it contracted for Norden to continue the aerial torpedo project separately, using new air- craft designed and built by the Witteman-Lewis Company. The Norden- modified Sperry autopilot design, constructed at the Ford Instrument Company, owned by another former Sperry engineer, Hannibal C. Ford,  22 Chapter 1 Dropping Projectiles from Aerial Crafts achieved its first success in March 1919. Ford built five experimental aerial torpedoes. Three crashed during testing and the Navy junked the re- maining two before scrapping the project in mid-1921.30 The Navy also contracted with Cooper Hewitt in April 1917 to build an aerial torpedo based on five gyroscopes controlling flight through elec- tromagnetic clutches. The effort failed, but in November 1917 the Army's chief signal officer decided to continue Hewitt's work at McCook Field under the direction of Charles F. Kettering of Delco. Unlike the Navy and Sperry beginning with controls and then designing an aircraft around them, the Army and Kettering began