e duty of bomb aiming to a spotter, freeing the pilot to concentrate on flying his aircraft. This feature was a matter of necessity, as pilots of Navy bombers flew from the middle of the aircraft and were usually unable to see their targets. The spotter, who sat in the front of the aircraft, aimed a sighting arm at the target, showing the pilot the proper course for flying over the target. The spotter dropped bombs by hand, with one arm strapped to the aircraft to prevent him from falling out. The new bombsight never worked properly, so the Navy compromised by adding the pilot-directing device of the "Pilot Directing Bombsight" to the Wimperis "Course Setting Bombsight." Two months before the end of the war, it contracted with the International Register Company for the production of 3,500 of these modified sights, named the Mark III "Pilot Directing Bombsight." At a price of $120.62 each, International Register delivered 2,200 Mark IIIs before the armistice brought an end to the con- tract. The speed of manufacture was evidence of the simplicity of the design.22 The United States pursued another means of achieving accuracy in bombing as well. In 1909 Elmer A. Sperry Sr. first tried to stabilize an aircraft, installing a 22-pound gyroscope in a small aircraft belonging to Stanley Y. Beach, aeronautical editor of the Scientific American, because the craft had no ailerons for lateral control. Finding the device too heavy for the small monoplane, Sperry and his son, Lawrence B. Sperry, began a project to employ small gyroscopes to manipulate an aircraft's control sur- faces rather than using the inherent stability of a larger gyroscope to pro- vide stability by direct application. No one had yet thought of improving stability to increase bombing accuracy, only to increase crew comfort and safety. The first reference to stabilization to improve bombing accuracy came in a Sperry automatic pilot brochure from 1916, designed to interest customers in Sperry products.23 The g