nt hit average. The Navy agreed that "the D-1 sights are sufficiently superior to the Mark III sight to warrant the purchase of a limited number for use pending the development of the new Navy sight."16 The Air Service ordered fourteen D-1s for itself and two for the Navy in 1922 from Eberhart Steel Products of Buffalo and stabilizers from the Pio- neer Instrument Company of Brooklyn. They performed well in bombing tests against the USS Virginia and USS New Jersey in 1923 and the Air Service contracted for an additional one hundred, including fourteen for the Navy, at an average cost of $600 each. The Navy deferred making a larger purchase until the D-4, a modified D-1, was available in 1925. In use, a D-1 bombardier aimed a direction wire at the target and deter- mined the wind direction by noting which way the target drifted away from the wire. He directed the pilot to fly in the direction of the target's drift until the target remained steady along the direction wire. The bom- bardier then turned drums or pointers to settings for the correct type of bomb (representing terminal velocity from ballistic tests recorded on com- pact bomb charts), the approximate air speed, the altitude, and his personal time lag (determined by multiple practice bombings). When the target in- tersected the front cross wire, he cranked the cross wire until a white pointer appeared to set the correct timing (over a period of 15 seconds). When the target intersected the rear cross wire, he released his bomb. The D-1 was no solution to the accuracy problem. Its dash pot- dampened pendulum provided inadequate stabilization and was only useful at low speeds and for altitudes above 3,000 feet, while the preferred alti- tude was from 7,000 to 17,000 feet. Nevertheless, the D-1 represented state-of-the-art bombsight design, reducing the required time for straight and level flight from nearly a minute for other timing sights to only 20 seconds, minimizing exposure to ground fire. It also reduced