ar land-based aircraft sank five of the thirteen battleships sunk by all sides, twenty-two of the forty-four cruisers, 158 of the 209 destroyers, and four of the twenty aircraft carriers. Of the total, aircraft of all types accounted for 43 percent of ships sunk, surface vessels 23 percent, and submarines and mines the remainder. High-altitude bombings by stra- tegic bombers in horizontal flight using the Norden bombsight were sin- gularly ineffective in this role. The only major warship confirmed sunk by the Army Air Forces from high altitude during the war was the Japanese light cruiser Abukuma. PT boats had previously disabled the 5,170-ton ship during the Battle of Leyte Gulf, before forty-four B-24s and B-25s from the Fifth and Thirteenth Air Forces struck on October 27, 1944. Army aircraft employing tactics of strafing, skip-bombing, and low-level bombing tallied most of the Army's ship-sinking claims.4 The Navy gave up on high-altitude Norden bombing early in the war. Vice Adm. William F. Halsey Jr., then Commander of Air Forces, Pacific Fleet, wrote BuAer and BuOrd on September 26, 1942, recommending that the Norden bombsight and Norden stabilized bombing approach equipment (SBAE) be eliminated from naval aircraft because they served no function. Wartime experience, he claimed, showed that ships would "maneuver out from under bombs dropped at high altitude." Halsey al- lowed tactical commanders to remove bombsights from their aircraft in April 1943, violating BuOrd regulations.5 In August 1943 Undersecretary of the Navy James V. Forrestal re- quested an evaluation of the Norden's value. BuOrd, long the bombsight's advocate, concluded that it was of use to the Army but not the Navy. It remained opposed to eliminating stocks in case naval aircraft had to bomb the Japanese mainland from high altitudes. In January 1944 BuOrd stopped shipping Norden bombsights to the Pacific. Six months later the Pacific Fleet officially removed Norden bombsights from its torpedo