ees.72 The bombsight development program had become an embarrassment. Henry H. Arnold, commander of the 7th Bombardment Group, com- plained that he had to throttle-back his B-12 bombers during bombing exercises because they were too fast for the D-1 and D-4 bombsights with which they were equipped. Sperry A-1 and A-2 automatic pilots were avail- able to contribute to bombing accuracy, but the Air Corps was running out of bombsight options. Consecutive chiefs of the Air Service and Air Corps had extolled the accuracy of bombing to the public, to the Army, and to themselves, but inaccurate bombsights stood between the promise and the reality.73 Riley Scott preparing two 18-pound bombs for his "means for dropping projectiles from aerial crafts" and bombsight in 1911 to hit a practice target- "well, almost anyway." (Source: National Air and Space Museum.)  Elmer A. Sperry Jr., brother of Lawrence and son of Elmer Sperry, solved the yaw or directional aspect of the autopilot problem, making automatic flight control possible. (Source: Sperry Gyroscope Company Collection, Hagley Museum and Library.) Elmer A. Sperry Sr. pioneered gyroscopic stabilization for aircraft and bombsights, founding the Sperry Gyroscope Company that became the Army's primary source of automatic pilots and bombsights until the Norden bombsight supplanted Sperry bombsights in the 1930s and '40s. (Source: Sperry Gyroscope Company Collection, Hagley Museum and Library.) Lawrence B. Sperry, Elmer Sperry's daredevil son, dominated aircraft gyrostabilizer and automatic flight control development until his death in December 1923. (Source: Sperry Gyroscope Company Collection, Hagley Museum and Library.) Headquarters of the Sperry Gyroscope Company, Brooklyn, New York, in 1935. (Source: Sperry Gyroscope Company Collection, Hagley Museum and Library.) BOMB SIGHT MARK IA ALTITUDE SETTING LEVER WHEEL TO SET WIND SPEED & AIR SPEED WIND SPEED INDICATOR ALTITUDE SCALE GUIDING RODS FOR MOVABLE CARRIAGE AIR SPEED SC