es and contracts and accept competitive bids. Congress added exceptions to the procurement law later, but none applied to the Norden case. In World War I purchasing officers could sign contracts without competitive bidding on a fixed-price or cost-plus basis. In a reaction against the debacle of World War I aircraft production, Congress required the Army and Navy to consider any design created under service contracts to be public property, not the proprietary right of the designer. The ser- vices were to announce specifications and design requirements. Compa- nies or individuals submitted designs and the services signed contracts with several to produce experimental models. The completed prototypes be- came government property. Finally, the services advertised for bids on pro- duction models, with the contract going to the lowest bidder.35 Navy officers violated these procedures in their dealings with Carl Nor- den. The Navy did not announce specifications and design requirements, did not accept proposed designs, did not sign experimental contracts with several sources, did not accept completed prototypes from these sources, and did not allow other companies to bid on the production contract. BuOrd created a private bombsight factory, using claims of security to hide the fact from congressional oversight. According to Ted Barth, The factory was to be a sort of under-cover plant for the development of our type of bombsight. Our business policy was to be controlled by the Bureau [BuOrd]. ... The Bureau subsidized our output (both men- tal and mechanical), and we were to function as sort of subdivision of the Bureau as far as the bombsight problem was concerned. . . . In re- turn, we were given assurances (unofficial, of course), that our outfit would be kept going with bombsight production ... against any remote possibility of loss.36 Norden invested much time and money in his bombsight designs and would have never regained his investment without the Navy's special ar