gned bombardment aviation a unique role. Its authors initi- ated two decades of sometimes acrid debate on the role of air power: should bombing attack the morale of troops at the front or the morale of the civilian arms-builders behind them? If the latter, should the target be the civilian arms-builders themselves or the machines and factories used by the civilian arms-builders? The Army's wartime manual answered af- firmatively to both of the first questions, but without specifying how to attack the morale of civilians: "The result of the battle depends a lot upon the moral of troops. The result of the war depends as much upon the moral of civilians. The aviation of bombardment allows to diminish the moral of the troops and the moral of civilians." The ratio of the effectiveness of bombing on morale to the effectiveness of mere physical destruction was 20: 1.39 The Air Service found that "while the material damage done by such bombing raids has been questioned, and while it has been proved that in many cases such damage was not great, there is absolutely no doubt that the moral effect of these operations is most considerable."40 The first written advocation of the bombing of the enemy's means of production came from then-Lieutenant Colonel Gorrell, head of the tech- nical section of the Air Service, American Expeditionary Force, beginning three decades of a peculiarly American commitment to killing machines,  24 Chapter 1 Dropping Projectiles from Aerial Crafts not people, through aerial bombardment. Gorrell argued that ground war- fare had reached a stalemate and the only solution was to bomb "manufac- turing centers, commercial centers, and lines of communication" from the air. The only way "to affect the armies in the fields . .. was to affect the manufacturing output of the countries" by bombing choke-points. De- stroying chemical factories would stop shell production and bombing en- gine and magneto factories would stop aircraft production. Concentrating all a