nently" and asked Adm. Harold R. Stark, the chief of naval operations, to send an American destroyer to Lisbon to transport him to Genoa, avoiding Gibraltar.10 The root of the problem was a Navy interception of a British wire iden- tifying Norden as a "dangerous individual, destitute, and friendly with the Nazi Government in Germany." Norden, an Anglophobe, feared "those damn Britishers" might "execute" him. At Gibraltar on May 10 the British indeed intercepted him, but the intervention of the American consul pre- vented a crisis in Anglo-American relations. The British apologized for the incident, claiming Norden was not the man for whom they searched. Discovering that the Germans had invaded France on May 10, Norden wired his family in Zurich to meet him at Genoa, ordering them to destroy all of his papers and drawings before departing. Reunited with his family, Norden and his FBI escort left for New York on the George Washington on May 19.11 This incident spurred the Navy to increase security. FBI agents began examining the company's overseas mail for evidence of espionage. In June 1940 Naval Intelligence asked the FBI to plant an undercover agent at the Norden factory to check on the loyalties of the many Norden employees of German and Italian ancestry. FBI sources suggested that Germany knew the secrets of the Norden bombsight, though Norden and Barth insisted it did not. After seven months on the job, the agent uncovered no indica- tions of espionage, but established a network of "twenty-six confidential informants and two sources of information" in the plant. He reported that assembly at Norden was so carefully supervised and so widely distributed and fragmented that espionage or sabotage would have been difficult. The FBI withdrew its agent on May 16, 1941, most of his reports having dealt with union activities, not espionage.12 Germany had already acquired plans to the bombsight through the ac- tivities of Hermann Lang, who had begun working for Norden as a