stiffen the resistance of the population." Hansell re- cruited captains Richard Hughes and Malcolm Moss, former businessmen with ties to Wall Street, to identify the industries of Germany and Japan that, if destroyed, would make "these two countries incapable of continu- ing to fight a war." Hughes and Moss chose 154 German targets for precision bombing, including eighteen aircraft production plants (the Luftwaffe was consid-  102 Chapter 5 103 Air Corps Adopts Bombing Strategy ered an "intermediate objective"), fifty electrical power plants, forty-seven transportation centers, twenty-seven oil plants, six aluminum plants, and six magnesium plants. Much of the information on which Hughes and Moss based their selection came from New York financial institutions in- vesting in or lending money to German enterprises. They extrapolated additional information from American industry, though the two industrial economies were significantly different. Germany placed greater emphasis on machine tools and lesser emphasis on large assembly-line manufactur- ing processes. Hughes and Moss avoided detailed targeting for Japan be- cause of a near-total ignorance of Japanese industry. Hughes described what happened next. Using the "accuracy probabili- ties of the Norden Bomb Sight, they calculated the tonnage of bombs which would need to be dropped on each target to destroy it, and, from that, the numbers and types of bombing planes which would be necessary." Data from bombing groups, based on training and practice bombings, showed that one heavy bomber from 20,000 feet had a 1.2 percent proba- bility of hitting a 100-foot by 100-foot target, with an average circular bombing error of 555 feet. Using Kuter's probability tables, the group cal- culated that 220 aircraft would be necessary to raise to 90 percent the probability of destroying a target. The AWPD group multiplied this figure by the square of 2.25 to reflect the influences enemy defenses, weather, and combat conditions might