s Norden bombsight and drop early or late to compensate. Guesswork had replaced the mechanical precision of Norden's analog computer in daylight precision strategic bombing. Bombing patterns on the ground took on the look of the aircraft formation. Only a few of these bombs could hit small targets. According to the Strategic Bombing Survey, "The rest spilled over on adjacent plants, or built-up areas, or in open fields."17 LeMay chose his lead crews based on experience and past perfor- mance-the best bombardiers aimed for all others. An Army Air Forces study supported his methods, finding that only one in ten bombardiers had the aptitude and ability to become a lead bombardier. Each lead crew be- came responsible for studying a separate target folder, making them ex- perts in locating landmarks and finding the target in the chaos of the run over the target. Eighth Air Force launched its first mission using the tactic to Vegesack, Germany, on March 18, 1943. By July 1943 drop-on-the- leader was standard procedure in Eighth Air Force operations. Group for- mations dropping-on-the-leader achieved 24.6 percent of all bombs within  172 Chapter 10 173 Precision Strategic Bombing against Germany 35 1,000 feet of the aiming point through October 1943, while those drop- ping on individual sightings achieved only 8.3 percent. Fifteenth Air Force believed individual aiming to be more accurate.18 30 The irony here was each group only needed one Norden bombsight, plus backups. General Arnold was fighting a procurement war with the Navy and Carl L. Norden, Inc., to acquire them by the thousands and was training tens of thousands of bombardiers to operate them, yet LeMay's tactic meant most bombers carried Nordens into combat as dead weight and bombardiers as gunners. The drop-on-the-leader technique elimi- nated bombsight shortages in Eighth Air Force. In March 1944 it asked that the next 1,000 bombers sent to England come without bombsights because it held 366 excess Nordens and