n, was 1,500 miles away. For three years the U.S. Navy fought the Japanese navy to bring the new B-29 long-range bomber within reach. 191  192 Chapter 11 193 Japan's Highly Inflammable Cities Army bombers in these efforts continued to rely on high-altitude bombing aimed by Norden bombsights, though without notable success. The American people, shocked by the defeat at Pearl Harbor, read in ear- nest about the exploit of Capt. Colin P. Kelly Jr. News stories had Kelly's B-17 hitting a Japanese battleship with three well-aimed bombs before Kelly crashed his damaged aircraft into the ship. None of the bombs struck the Japanese vessel, which was a light cruiser. An explosion blew Kelly out of his damaged B-17, but his parachute failed to open.2 The Army claimed many successes in its attacks on Japanese shipping from high altitude with the Norden bombsight, though generally the claims could not be substantiated. What successes were documented came from below 4,000 feet. On July 30, 1942, for example, eight B-17s dropped sixty-four bombs from 1,500 feet on a transport, achieving seven hits. General Arnold explained that inadequate training and lack of opportunity caused the meager results against maneuvering targets. He told President Roosevelt that "the results obtained have not been due to any inherently defective characteristic of the fundamental theory." Arnold ballyhooed Army participation in the battle of Midway, claiming his airmen dropped 322 bombs and achieved twenty-two hits and forty-six near-misses on seven Japanese battleships or aircraft carriers and ten lesser ships. Japanese records captured after the war revealed no hits and no damage resulting from the high-altitude attacks. Bombs missed the Japanese carriers Soryu and Hiryu by 160 to 650 feet.3 During the war land-based aircraft sank five of the thirteen battleships sunk by all sides, twenty-two of the forty-four cruisers, 158 of the 209 destroyers, and four of the twenty aircraft carriers. Of the total