plex sights, production of the essentially handmade Mark XI continued at a rate of only three per month. BuAer decided that the fleet's bombsight situation was so poor that even imperfect Nordens would be preferable to the Mark IIIs, by 1930 in use for seven years. BuOrd distributed the sights as they came out of the Norden workshop to torpedo and bombing plane squadrons of the Battle and Scouting Fleets. The fleet served as the primary testing unit, requiring all operating units to complete evaluation forms each time the sights were used. 46 Although the Mark XI represented a substantial improvement over pre- vious bombsights, it did not resolve the limitations of high-altitude hori- zontal bombing. Only mass bombing formations and bombing patterns could hope to hit a maneuvering target from high altitude. With the lim- ited air force available to the fleet on the backs of its only carriers, the USS Lexington and Saratoga (1927), and later the Ranger (1934), and with each aircraft carrying only one bomb of limited size, effective bombing patterns would be difficult. The Navy gradually lost faith in the ability of an aircraft flying horizontally to drop bombs on maneuvering ships from high al- titude. The U.S. Navy therefore pursued two additional means for sinking ships from the air during the 1920s. The aerial torpedo was first consid- ered in the United States in 1912. A Royal Naval Air Service Short float- plane became the first aircraft to drop an aerial torpedo in 1914. Actual testing in the United States began in 1918, spurred on by the success of other navies during World War I.47 The torpedo allowed an aircraft to strike a ship at its most vulnerable point below the waterline. In 1920 the Navy formed its first aerial torpedo squadron based on land at Yorktown, equipped with the Martin MBT (later the TM-1). Other land-based tor- pedo bombers followed, including the Naval Aircraft Factory's PT-1 and PT-2, which launched the Navy's first torpedo against a movi