cy only at altitudes below 5,000 feet. The Edison Photograph Works (Orange, N.J.), the Frederick Pierce Company (New York City), the H. W. Cotten Company (New York City), and the Gorham Manufacturing Company (Providence, R.I.) manufac- tured Wimperis bombsights in the United States. Unfortunately the copy of the Wimperis imported to the United States for use as a production pattern for the Mark I was defective and initial production proved unus-  16 Chapter 1 Dropping Projectiles from Aerial Crafts Aircraft Attitudes able. The United States eventually procured over 12,000 Mark I/IIIs at $75.60 each before the armistice brought contract cancellation.16 The Michelin Company of Clermont, France, took Scott's ideas and adapted them to fit their own Michelin sight-the best of the war. Unlike the Wimperis, the Michelin Company manufactured all Michelin sights in American service during the war. The Michelin 7 AIC sight used charts developed at the Eiffel Aerodynamic Laboratory for the falling times of bombs. Using a stopwatch, the operator calculated his ground speed be- fore arriving over the target, measuring the amount of time it took an ob- ject to intersect the front and back cross hairs on his bombsight, which subtended a distance of 600 meters on the ground. After setting the Mi- chelin sight to the appropriate speed index, he also determined the approx- imate altitude, again adjusting the sight, which mechanically set the correct aiming angle. The bombardier aimed the front cross hair at the target and dropped his bombs when the target moved to intersect the rear cross hair. The Michelin bombsight made only crude approximations of the calcu- lations necessary for precision bombing and made no adjustments for the wind. For proper use the pilot had to fly either with or against the wind, exposing the aircraft to ground defensive fire for up to 11/2 minutes. The bombardier yelled or pulled straps tied to the pilot's shoulders to inform the pilot of the correct target