eveling bub- bles mounted on top of the bombsight gyro housing to judge the vertical. Make sure that the bombsight gyro is caged and that the airplane is fly is flying straight and level before performing this operation. Care exercised in obtaining a good level will eliminate the necessity for making large corrections to level the bombsight gyro during the bombing run. II. BOMBING RUN-the synchronous bombing run is started when the airplane reaches the initial point specified at the preliminary briefing. The bombardier should contact the pilot on the interphone at this point and coordinate the remain- der of the run. The actual technique that will be employed will vary with the nature of the mission. In general, however, each of the following steps must be performed in much the same sequence as they are presented. A. Switch on the bomb rack by moving the toggle switch or switches to "ON" position to select the desired bomb bay or rack. B. Open bomb bay doors by moving the bomb bay door toggle switch to the "ON" position. When the doors are open the bomb bay door light will be on. C. Uncage the bombsight gyro as soon as the airplane is flying straight and level. D. Swing the sight onto the target, or if equipped with the type X-1 reflex optics, align the vertical cross hair with the target. 1. Grasp the directional arm jaws with the left hand, if flying on the autopilot, and hold the autopilot clutch to avoid turning the airplane while lining the sight up with the target. 2. Grasp the turn and drift knobs with the right hand and swing the bombsight head into alignment with the target. E. Use the search knob or displacement knob to swing the horizontal cross hair onto the target. F. Move the telescope motor toggle switch to the "ON" position. G. If evasive action is to be taken, disengage autopilot clutch to permit turning the airplane with the bombardier's turn knob. H. Start evasive action, if these tactics are to be employed during the approach to the target. These