ade defeated Japan, but failed to convince the Japanese leadership it had lost. B-29s were therefore left with a target the Air Corps Tactical School faculty had not considered. Strategic bombing had to persuade the Japanese government that it could not win, changing victory from "one of slow strangulation to a relatively quick knock-out."36 LeMay's attacks on sixty-eight Japanese cities and towns destroyed 2,502,000 housing units and forced the Japanese govern- ment to tear down 614,000 more for firebreaks, leaving 30 percent of the population homeless. Government policies and the bombing forced 8.5 million civilians to flee the industrial cities. In nine months, bombing caused 806,000 civilian casualties. Night area and atomic bombing con- vinced the Japanese they had lost the war, just as the bludgeon of inaccu- rate daylight precision strategic bombing had done in Germany. By that it saved the hundreds of thousands of lives, American and Japanese, that would have come from an American invasion of Japan to force uncondi- tional surrender.37 Many have emphasized the reasons behind the switch from precision to area bombing, including racism, vengeance for Pearl Harbor, the desire to impress the Soviets, and the Army Air Forces's quest for postwar indepen- dence. Ira Eaker had told Carl Spaatz "we should never allow the history of this war to convict us of throwing the strategic bomber at the man in the street." Later he admitted, however, that he had "always believed that civilians supporting national leaderships were equally responsible with the military. ... The man who builds the weapon is as responsible as the man who carries it into battle." Killing "bad people to spare good people" was the proper function for strategic bombing, even if not complying with of- ficial doctrine. The Strategic Bombing Survey claimed the switch to area bombing occurred "because of the contributions in numerous ways of the civilian population to the fighting strength of the enemy, a