ain a higher proba- bility of getting a hit on a single attack." In operation the intervalometer was a simple electrical timer that opened the bomb shackles at timed inter- vals. The standard intervalometer until 1943 was the B-2A and after 1943  130 Chapter 7 131 Preparation for War the AN-B-3, produced primarily by the J. P. Seeburg and P. R. Malloy companies, capable of twenty-one settings between one-twentieth and one-half a second. On the B-17 Flying Fortress these devices allowed the bombardier to drop up to fifty bombs, at ground speeds from 100 to 500 MPH. Ground intervals could be from 7 to 750 feet. More important, because many wartime missions required carpet bombing or the instantaneous release of all bombs, these intervalometers had salvo switches to achieve a concentrated pattern on the ground. The A-2 salvo switch was mechanical-electrical and the A-4 all-electrical. On the B-17 and B-29 bombers these switches were on the control panel next to the bombardier. On the B-24 the salvo switch was on a panel behind the bombardier, as part of the control stand containing a handle for opening the bomb-bay doors. These salvo-switch arrangements eased the task of B-17 and B-29 crews in dropping at the formation leader's direction, but caused some difficulty for B-24 crews. Before procurement, however, all other problems were minor difficult- ies. The Navy had promised to share production equally, but instead satis- fied its own requirements before sending any to the Army. Because the Navy and Norden refused to establish a definite procurement schedule, the Army never knew when to expect a bombsight delivery. Before the war Martin B-10B bomber production surged ahead of bombsight production, leaving the chief of the Air Corps pessimistic: "It is the opinion of this Headquarters that it is improbable that a satisfactory solution will ever be accomplished." By March 1937 the Air Corps had 200 bombers without bombsights.60 Norden's manufacturing process was inadequ