Headquarters that it is improbable that a satisfactory solution will ever be accomplished." By March 1937 the Air Corps had 200 bombers without bombsights.60 Norden's manufacturing process was inadequate for Air Corps and Navy needs in the 1930s, but struck a careful balance between his Old World craftsmanship and the demands of a military preparing for war. The order for 242 Mark XVs in 1938 was a harbinger of production require- ments that would dwarf even the most radical estimates. Carl Norden withdrew from "all active participation as an officer" and sold his stock, preferring employment as a consulting engineer. Barth was then free to expand the facility on Lafayette Street and adopt mass-production tech- niques based on interchangeable parts to keep up with demand. To pro- duce components for the Norden bombsight, he convinced a long-time friend, Paul Berger, to move Berger's Manufacturers Machine and Tool Company to the seventeenth floor of the 80 Lafayette Street building. Barth's company also contracted with the Robbins and Meyers Company of Springfield, Ohio, and International Projector Corporation of New York for additional parts. By 1940 Manufacturers Machine and Tool Com- pany produced about 60 percent of the parts for the bombsight and its stabilizer, with Robbins and Meyers and International Projector producing the other 40 percent. Norden workers produced no parts, but did subas- sembly on the sixth floor and final assembly on the sixteenth at 80 Lafa- yette Street, adding the third and fourth floors to expand production in February 1941.61 Production remained snail-like in the eyes of Air Corps Chief Arnold, despite the changes. One year before American entry into the war, with Allied fortunes at a nadir, the Norden plant still closed for holidays and every weekend, operating on a peacetime schedule of five days a week, 8:00 to 5:30. Not until February 1941 did it consider extending the work week. That month it also granted raises to most employees