o was purposefully avoiding work on an automatic pilot under BuOrd direction. In 1935 BuOrd changed its policy and suggested to Norden that at some point in the fu- ture he might modify his SBAE to allow its use as an autopilot for long- range navigation. By then it was too late. Carl Norden was a man who saw suggestions as criticisms. An engineer of single-minded purpose, he dismissed BuOrd's proposal in typical fashion: "The trouble with your ideas is that they are primarily intended to relieve the pilot while with mine, that feature is merely incidental, for I am only concerned with preci- sion flight regardless of weather conditions and only for the purpose of im- proving bombsight performance" by "stabilizing the flight of the airplane." The intent was clear: "It may be that it will prove to have value in connec- tion with blind flying or long distance overseas flying but it has been devel- oped primarily as ordnance equipment for the purpose of improving bombing accuracy."25 Norden delivered his SBAE to the Navy on February 14, 1935, after three years of work, warning BuOrd that his experimental prototype had problems. Proposals to fix them, however, "would probably run afoul of a bunch of Sperry patents, which, as you know, cover a wide range of claims including the law of gravity and centrifugal force." Norden could not use "electrically operated oil valves" (hydraulics) because of Sperry patents on the A-2 autopilot and because he disliked the slow action they provided.26 Tests at the Dahlgren Proving Ground showed "that the Norden equip- ment ... is at least the equal of if not superior to the Sperry gyro-pilot," especially the quality of its gyroscopes, though it was not as simple to oper- ate. Norden's SBAE still had trouble controlling the rudder-the same problem that had vexed Elmer Sperry Jr. Barth and Naval Testing Ground personnel could not get the proportional banking/roll feature to function, but BuOrd's bombsight officer, Lt. Cdr. Forrest Sherman