ith the timing method was that it was an average determination of ground speed and required a long, level bomb run to achieve an accurate mea- surement. This exposed the aircraft and crew to enemy defensive fire for a pro- longed period. Timing for several minutes was "too long for comfort, inviting poor concentrations on the process, and resulting in poor manipulation of an otherwise quite accurate instrument." It assumed a steady speed over the entire period of the measurement, when in fact that speed might vary. Getting an aircraft to fly straight, level, and at a constant speed under combat conditions was a frustrating challenge. The timing method relied on a simple mechanical device, but also on a human operator making simultaneous visual observations with manual manipulations of a timing device and therefore contained considerable errors. The synchronous method was vulnerable to any slight oscillation of the tele- scope, which would affect the speed of the revolving mechanism, providing an er- roneous ground speed. In the aircraft of the 1920s, weather and vibration created great obstacles to stabilization. A high degree of stabilization, either by gyroscope, pendulum, dash pot (shock absorber), or automatic pilot was essential to proper synchronization, while the timing method averaged out these oscillations. The synchronous method relied on a complicated mechanical device, but required the human operator to do no more than keep a cross wire fixed on a distant point for a brief time. The trade-off was mechanical complexity with human simplicity (the synchronous method) or mechanical simplicity with human complexity (the timing method). In precision bombing, the former was preferable to the latter, but re- quired greater expense and a higher degree of manufacturing accuracy. Expense, manufacturing difficulties, and the problem of achieving the necessary degree of stabilization hindered the development of the synchronous sight, despite its theo- retical advanta