practicable method" because of modern antiaircraft artillery. It could reduce the expectations of success on individual missions. Lowering expectations from a 98 percent chance of success to 90 percent would reduce the number of bombs required by 55 percent, but the purpose of air power was to destroy targets. The odds of success would have to remain high or costly repeat missions would be necessary. Kuter concluded that the only practical solution was to increase bombing accuracy. Minor increases would not help. "Arbitrarily reducing the errors would be a neat but not effective method of talking ourselves out of the hole this [mean probable bombing error] table has placed us in. This table is the Air Corps' story and we are stuck with it." The doctrine of daylight precision strategic bombing had major holes. Theorists had based their thinking on the results of the Langley annual bombing competitions, recorded by the best bombardiers in the entire Air Corps, flying old, slow Keystone bombers at 10,000 feet with inadequate D-4 bombsights. Now crews were flying Martin B-10s and Boeing B-17s with Norden bombsights at higher speeds and altitudes and had reduced bombing errors, adjusted to 8,000 feet of altitude, from 238 feet to 28 feet. A target requiring ninety-nine bombs for destruction with the D-4 needed only twenty-five bombs with the M-1 Norden, but only under artificial "laboratory" conditions. Obviously the Norden bombsight was critical, but in the field among the crews and bombardiers who would fight the war from above 20,000 feet, would it be enough? When the war began bombardiers still practiced for high-altitude missions at 12,000 feet.27 The greatest single cause for error continued to be bombardier error. The Army Air Forces Board "acknowledged faulty technique" for one out of three bomb drops.28 Because short-range dive bombing was not practi- cal for the Air Corps' strategic bombing role, Arnold ordered the Air Corps Board to consider glide and low-alti