- ment knobs. O. When the telescope sector indicator drives into coincidence with the rate sector indicator bombs are released automatically. P. Notify the pilot that the bombs have been released. Q. Prepare the equipment for possible violent evasive maneuvers. 1. Close bomb-bay doors. 2. Cage bombsight gyro. 3. Engage autopilot clutch and disengage bombsight clutch. 4. Turn off telescope motor. 5. Turn off bombsight gyro. 6. Latch release lever. 7. Turn off switches to bomb rack or racks. 8. Return altitude knob to minimum speed stop. 9. Return telescope sector indicator to maximum setting. 10. Return trail arm, and trail spotting arm if sight is so equipped, to zero. 11. Cover bombsight.' Glossary AES (Automatic Erection System) Modification of Norden bombsight to allow for automatic leveling of bombsight without resorting to manual adjustment based on spirit levels. AFCE (Automatic Flight Control Equipment) Air Corps term for gyroscopi- cally stabilized automatic pilot designed to manipulate aircraft controls through the bombsight in order to maintain level flight during the bombing run. Differ- ent from Navy SBAE in serving as general aircraft automatic pilot in addition to bombing operations. Altimeter Aircraft instrument used for determining vertical distance above sea level. Area target In American usage, a precision target that required a distribution of bombs throughout the area of the target. Automatic pilot Device designed to manipulate the control surfaces of an air- craft automatically to insure level flight free of yaw, pitch, or roll. Also autopilot. Automatic release system Device on Norden bombsight allowing for auto- matic and instantaneous release of bombs when sighting angle and dropping angle indicators coincided. Bomb run The brief part of a bombing mission immediately preceding bomb release. Also bombing approach. 233  234 Glossary 235 Glossary CEP (Circular Error Probable) Measure of accuracy and reliability of bombing. Expressed as radius of