ere.28 Douhet misunderstood even the most basic elements of air power. He as- sumed that once command of the air had been established, the destruction of an enemy's industries and civil centers would automatically follow. He grossly overestimated the power of bombs and the accuracy of bombsights. In his defense, when Douhet wrote of the capabilities of bombing, he was thinking of chemical and bacteriological warfare, making bombing accu- racy less critical. He never considered, however, that a bomber might miss its target. For Douhet, air war was simply substituting technological fanat- icism for the ideological or nationalistic fanaticism behind war. American airmen read and appreciated his views as early as 1923.29 British strategists reinforced the views of Mitchell and Douhet. Jan Smuts, whose report paved the way for the creation of the independent Royal Air Force (RAF) in World War I, believed that bombing cities would win wars. Basil H. Lidell-Hart compared the bombing of civilians to Paris killing Achilles with a blow to his vulnerable heel. Another observer called civilians the "nerve ganglia of national morale." Stanley Baldwin said in Parliament that "the only defence is in offence, which means that you have to kill more women and children more quickly than the enemy if you want to save yourself."30 Hugh Trenchard, the "father" of the RAF, also thought terrorizing workers could achieve victory without the need to defeat an enemy's armed forces. Britain's World War I experience convinced him that "the home front was, in modern warfare, both a great deal more important and a great deal more vulnerable than the front line." Trenchard argued that the mo- rale effect of strategic bombing was greater than the material effect by the proportion of 20 to 1. This made precision unnecessary. Although he thought the enemy's will to resist was the proper target of strategic bomb- ing, he never determined whether this should be done through attacks on civilians or on i