erry C-4, but weighed 50 pounds less.31 After the Sperry Company completed its contract in July 1931, the Ma- teriel Division reported "inferior accuracy" and an unsatisfactory "pilot directing system." Wright Field sent L-1s to Langley and March Fields for service testing, which involved the dropping of 108 bombs from different altitudes (6,000, 9,000, and 12,000 feet) using the Navy's Norden Mark XI, the Army's Estoppey D-7, and the Sperry/Inglis L-1. Crews judged the Norden as the best sight in terms of accuracy (331 feet average radial error)  34 Chapter 2 35 The Army's Pursuit of Precision Bombing and general preference, though the most difficult to operate. The D-7 was the least accurate (459 feet average radial error), but the easiest to operate. The new L-1 came in second in accuracy (346 feet average radial error), general preference, and ease of operation. Lt. Col. R. C. Kirtland, com- manding at Langley, concluded that "the procurement of a bomb sight which is considered inferior to another [the Norden XI] now in existence in this country cannot be recommended." With clearly no major improve- ment in accuracy or other advantages for the Sperry/Inglis sight, the Army Air Corps decided against recommending procurement of the L-1.32 Sperry delivered its own bombsight, the C-4, to Wright Field on March 12, 1931. Based on Seversky's C-1, C-2, and C-3, and Inglis's L-1 designs, the C-4 used a vertical-seeking gyroscope that made accurate leveling of the bombsight unnecessary at the time the sight's stabilizing gyroscope was unlocked. By this means the Sperry Corporation had solved one major problem facing bombsight development in the interwar era. The vertical- seeking gyroscope eliminated the "chasing the bubble" problem that forced a bombardier to attempt leveling his bombsight while the aircraft to which it was fastened knocked about in the air. The C-4 also used a rotating prism to synchronize the movement of the sight's cross wire with the target. Extremel