roblem that had vexed Elmer Sperry Jr. Barth and Naval Testing Ground personnel could not get the proportional banking/roll feature to function, but BuOrd's bombsight officer, Lt. Cdr. Forrest Sherman, ordered Dahl- gren to ignore these problems and press on. Bombing tests proved a 30 percent improvement in the Mark XV's accuracy with the SBAE in smooth air, 39 percent in bumpy air. In very rough air Dahlgren bombardiers had not released bombs manually for fear of the bombs landing outside the target area. With the SBAE, they not only bombed, but achieved accuracy close to what an aircraft under manual control had achieved in smooth air.27 Although it lacked the means for maintaining a steady altitude and was too complex and too heavy (126 pounds), production nevertheless began in late 1936, entering service in 1938. Installed with the Mark XV Mod. 2 bombsight, the Norden bombing system weighed 178 pounds. Barth filed for patent protection in April 1940. As with his bombsight, Carl Norden's penchant for anonymity kept his name off the patent. Barth again assigned the classified patent to the United States of America as represented by the secretary of the Navy. The Navy did not declassify the SBAE until 1947 and the U.S. Patent Office did not award a patent to Barth on the device until October 25, 1949.28 The SBAE operated with two gyroscopes. Deviations in roll, yaw, and pitch moved the gyroscopes' cardans or frames, fixed to the aircraft, while the axis of the azimuth gyroscope remained horizontal and the axis of the flight gyroscope remained vertical. This movement established an electri- cal contact, starting rudder, aileron, and elevator servomotors. Pulleys mounted on the centrally located servomotors pulled long wire cables con- nected to the aircraft's control surfaces until the gyroscopes precessed back to their horizontal or vertical positions. As a bombing device, the SBAE transferred any adjustment of the bombsight's controls through mechanical linkages t