hat the ailerons play a very definite role also in controlling the direction of the aircraft. ... I have recognized this situation and have provided an inter-connection between the aircraft wings and the rudder through the aileron control so that whenever the ailerons are actuated in response to the tilting of the wings there is also an actuation of the steering rudder so that any turning movement that has been introduced by the tilting of the wings will be at the same time counteracted by the actuation of the steering rudder. Wright Field immediately ordered three A-1s at $5,400 each. In a "turn- about is fair play" arrangement, perhaps a reaction to the Navy-Norden  Chapter 2 38 39 The Army's Pursuit of Precision Bombing connection, Sperry gave the Air Corps priority over all other purchasers, including commercial aircraft manufacturers clamoring for the device.46 The intent of the Air Corps all along had been to develop a bombing device. The final test report concluded that the device had "maintained the line of flight sufficiently accurate for bombing purposes over periods comparable to those required for approach." Upon receiving word of the autopilot test results, Chief of the Air Corps Benjamin Foulois ordered the A-1-equipped Ford C-9 flown to Washington for presentation to the me- dia. He proclaimed, "The automatic pilot has arrived. Large airplanes may now be controlled by the untiring metallic arms of an ingenious mecha- nism-a mechanism which pilots transport airplanes straight and level and will hold them on a given course indefinitely." Foulois was enough of a politician to know that the antiwar atmosphere in the United States was still too strong to reveal the autopilot's original purpose-to guide a bomber aircraft through a smooth and straight approach to improve bombing accuracy.47 Sperry's device, weighing 50 pounds, was mounted beneath the copilot's seat, with 70 pounds of associated equipment mounted in the fuselage. Built around two gyroscopes48