0 for first-, second-, or third-class bombardiers. This was in perfect weather against no enemy defenses. The Army Air Forces Board con- cluded in its report to Arnold, now chief of the Army Air Forces, that "mean points of impact of Air Forces bombing and training school bomb- ing continued to fall short of the target." The reality of bombing inaccu- racy collided with the doctrine-makers' theories.26 A founder of the doctrine, Laurence S. Kuter, began to have doubts. His continuing analysis of bombing probable errors, based on thousands of actual bombings against isolated targets in the middle of empty deserts in clear weather, under ideal conditions, at low speeds, against no enemy opposition, revealed the strategic bombing doctrine's vulnerability to bombing inaccuracy (see Table 5.2). Kuter reevaluated his earlier calculations on the force needed to destroy the Sault Ste. Marie Canal locks. Yes, strategic bombing would work, but he would need more than 120 bombers dropping over 1,000 bombs to get the nine hits to do the job. "Such a mission," he wrote, "is beyond the  98 Chapter 5 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine capability of all of our bomb groups today." Lt. Col. Edgar P. Sorenson, another instructor at ACTS, analyzed 40,000 bomb drops and concluded that "any categorical answer to the question how many airplanes must be dispatched to obtain a reasonable chance of destroying an objective is of no practical value because of the many factors that must be considered in each case." Another ACTS critic, Capt. Matthew K. Deichelmann, wrote that many more bombs were going to be necessary to insure the destruc- tion of the industrial fabric. Kuter considered the options. The Air Corps could reduce altitude to increase accuracy, but "it is manifestly not a practicable method" because of modern antiaircraft artillery. It could reduce the expectations of success on individual missions. Lowering expectations from a 98 percent chance of success to 90 percen