mbs tended to roll, skid, or tumble an average of 141 feet in range and 25 feet in deflection. The small angle of impact made fuzes more liable to fail. Bombs tended to detonate on their sides, reducing the effects of both the explosion and resulting fragmentation. "In short, a decision to go in for low-altitude bombing as a standard practice is liable to be very defective." Coleman, with remarkable foresight as to the need for air superiority to carry on any strategic bombing campaign, continued, On the offensive in a major war we would probably most need planes capable of high altitude and long radius. This for the reason that we having air superiority could by operating above 14,000 feet force out and destroy enemy pursuit (his principal protection at such altitude)- thus leaving our bombardment completely free. Besides, at low altitude one of our bombers would probably face up to fifteen thousand rounds of machine gun ammunition from the defenses, while a high altitude bomber would face a maximum of twenty-five rounds of artillery fire. The Air Corps assistant chief of ordnance endorsed Coleman's study. A low-altitude bomb was "not as effective as one dropped from high alti- tudes. ... The best destructive action of demolition bombs is due to the mining effect" achieved when a bomb buried itself in the earth. Bombs had higher terminal velocity and therefore greater kinetic energy when dropped from high altitude. A 500-pound bomb dropped from 20,000 feet reached a speed of about 880 feet per second. Walker's calculations showed that the kinetic energy of a bomb was equal to one-half of the mass of the bomb times the square of the velocity. The key to increasing the power of the bomb was to increase its speed through the air by dropping from a higher altitude, not simply increasing its mass.50 Walker wrote a series of studies on the issues of low- and high-altitude bombing. Because when released at 160 MPH a bomb traveled 235 feet per second, rolling was a serious