wo additional batteries installed in the fuselage. Extreme sensi- tivity to currency fluctuations meant the aircraft had to be flown at a pre- cise speed to achieve the exact flow of current from the generators. Its many electrical connections tended to oxidize, causing further malfunc- tions.12 Sperry told Maj. Gen. Mason M. Patrick, chief of the Air Service, that the production of fifty would cost $12,500 each.13 Patrick and the Engi- neering Division refused to standardize the C-1. In 1928 Seversky re- turned with a modified C-1, the C-3A, B, and C, with automatically ori-  30 Chapter 2 31 The Army's Pursuit of Precision Bombing enting pilot direction indicators. By then, however, the Army had decided, after a decade of effort, that the Seversky C-series bombsights, in part be- cause of their maintenance problems, were "a waste of time."14 The Sev- ersky bombsights were the first of several dead ends for the Army's air force in the interwar period. The Engineering Division also sought bombsights from Georges Es- toppey beginning in 1921. A naturalized citizen from Locle, Switzerland, Estoppey immigrated to the United States in 1916. During the war he formed the Musa-Estoppey Company of New York and produced a bomb- sight design for which he received three patents in March 1919. The com- pany failed and in 1921 Estoppey went to work for the Air Service Engi- neering Division at McCook Field, where he turned his design into a practical bombsight, designated the D-1.15 Using a pendulum with dash pots for stabilization, the D-1 relied on a stopwatch to find ground speed. Tests at the Aberdeen Proving Ground impressed its examiners: "much greater accuracy than with the old Navy Mark III or Army Mark IA sights" and "twice as accurate as the Michelin," achieving an 80 percent hit average. The Navy agreed that "the D-1 sights are sufficiently superior to the Mark III sight to warrant the purchase of a limited number for use pending the development of the new Navy sight."