city happened to be underneath."45 Air Corps Tactical School doctrine had foreseen the bombing of enemy urban areas to destroy morale, but had restricted such strikes to the latter stages of a war after the industrial infrastructure had been destroyed and the enemy people were susceptible to the effects of morale bombing. World War II reached that point in its last winter. In late October 1944 Eighth Air Force widened its definition of precision bombing, allowing its aircraft to attack towns and cities as "secondary and last resort targets" if they contained or were adjacent to "one or more military objectives." On January 31, 1945, the Malta Conference directed American air commander Carl Spaatz to bomb urban areas and cause confusion among civilians evacuating the east. Eighth Air Force commander Jimmy Doolittle saw this as violating "the basic American principle of precision bombing of tar- gets of strictly military significance for which our tactics were designed and our crews trained and indoctrinated."46 Despite protests, 932 B-17s dropped nearly 2,300 tons of bombs on the center of Berlin on February 3, 1945. Even at this point, however, the influence of the precision bombing doctrine was apparent. The official tar- gets for that day were the Anhalter, Tempelhof, and Schlesischer railroad stations (marshalling yards) and government offices along Wilhelmstrasse. Although Germany claimed 25,000 civilian dead, more probably 1,000 died.47 Eighth Air Force also participated in the Allied bombing of Dres- den on February 14 and 15-a city of little military significance. One week later nearly 1,400 heavy bombers struck at transportation targets in forty small cities and towns yet untouched by bombing. Ironically, this time the intent was morale bombing, though the chosen targets were consistent with the strategy of daylight precision strategic bombing. Returning to Berlin on March 18, 1945, 1,251 B-17s and B-24s attacked precision targets (two railroad stations, a l