ng's sentence was eighteen years in a federal penitentiary for espionage and two years for failing to register as a foreign agent. In response to pleas for clemency, Judge Byers said, "He of all men knew to what use it might be put by the chivalrous powers of the Axis in waging their war against civilization."15 Another embarrassing revelation came from Wythe Williams of the Mutual Broadcasting System in 1940. Soviet agents had stolen a Norden bombsight, he reported, but, unable to manufacture it in their "poorly equipped factories," had shipped the device to the German Zeiss Works in Jena in compliance with the Hitler-Stalin Pact. Williams also claimed that the United States had passed the sight, its most critical military technol-  118 Chapter 7 119 Preparation for War ogy, to the British. Chief of Staff George Marshall sent Brig. Gen. Sher- man Miles to question Williams on the story. His source had been an in- formant claiming to be in contact with a German officer in Berlin. No Nordens were missing.16 The Navy-Norden prohibition against Army contacts with Carl L. Norden, Inc., violated section 10(1) of the Air Corps Act of 1926 that "the manufacturing plant, and books, of any contractor for furnishing or con- structing aircraft, aircraft parts, or aeronautical accessories, for the War Department or the Navy Department ... shall at all times be subject to inspection and audit by any person designated by the head of any executive department of the Government." The Navy argued that unrestricted ac- cess would cause chaos, waste Norden's time, "embarrass" the Navy, and threaten secrecy. That unrestricted Army access might also reveal the Navy's less-than-legal arrangement with Norden went unsaid. BuOrd's chief bombsight officer warned the Navy that "unless we ... convince the Air Corps that their needs are fairly considered and met, I believe they will carry a fight for direct dealings with Norden to higher authority." Assistant Secretary of War for Air Robert A. L