ad for- merly occupied its space. Even if American bombardiers had been able to hit their targets regularly, their bombs were too small to damage most of the industries at which they were aimed. The Army Air Forces chose smaller bombs because flooding the target area increased the chances of getting a hit. Ironically, wartime practice proved heavier bombs were more accurate.57 In prewar doctrinal development, the Air Corps Tactical School faculty was concerned with hitting the target and assumed the standard Air Corps bomb weighing 100 pounds would destroy it. Fortunately for the United States, at least the Army Air Forces adopted the 500-pound bomb as the standard weapon for World War II. The key construction materials of German industries were iron, steel, and concrete. Synthetic gasoline plants were built to withstand pressures up to 10,000 pounds per square inch and temperatures of several thousand degrees. Against such structures, only direct hits were effective. The doctrine of daylight precision strategic bombing assumed circular errors of several hundred feet, not direct hits.58 At the end of the war two people publicly questioned precision bombing and the Norden bombsight's contribution to it. Maj. Alexander P. de Sev- ersky, the Army's post-World War I bombsight expert, claimed that he had evidence of the "gross exaggeration about the allegedly miraculous pow- ers" of the Norden bombsight-a technology he described as barely ad- vanced beyond bombsights built two decades earlier (presumably his own C-1). Improvements in accuracy, he said, were due to the skill of the air- crews flying the bombers. Sen. Elbert Thomas of Utah believed precision bombing to be "one of the outstanding hoaxes of military history." Ger- many had "a bombsight so much better than ours that it made their ordi- nary bombardiers as good as our experts."59 Privately many airmen also questioned precision bombing, but did their jobs regardless. Burrell Ellison of the 392nd Bomb Group clai