tiaircraft gunners time to determine the ele- vation, slant range, and azimuth of a bomber. Norden had not designed his bombsight for such a short bombing run. Commander of the 305th Bombardment Group Curtis E. LeMay re- fused to accept the inaccuracy evasive action over the target brought. He felt that "the only point in flying a bomber in this war . .. was to drop bombs where they would do the most harm to the enemy." Analysis of poststrike photographs revealed that American bombing was far from pre- cision; LeMay called it "stinko." But what to do? After several frustrating missions, the answer came to him in bed. Using an old ROTC artillery manual, he calculated the chances of a flak gun hitting a target the size of a B-17 at a distance of 25,000 feet. Guessing that it would take 372 shells to down an American bomber over the target, he determined that the chances of getting shot down while in level flight "didn't look too bad." Because the German 8.8-cm cannon had an opera- tional ceiling of about 20,000 feet, LeMay decided to substitute altitude for evasive maneuvers. Flying above 20,000 feet would reduce the threat, but could bombardiers still hit pickle barrels at that altitude? LeMay had to balance accuracy against the impulse for self- preservation. He ordered his group to ignore the threat of flak and ap- proach the target straight and level in a group formation. Staggering his aircraft in a tight "combat box" or "Javelin Down formation" uncovered the maximum number of defensive machine guns for protection against German fighters. Brig. Gen. Laurence S. Kuter, commanding general of the 1st Bomb Wing, organized LeMay's combat box of eighteen to twenty- one bombers into a combat wing of two or three combat boxes. These formations were "force multipliers," giving B-17s and B-24s a degree of protection from German fighters because of their overlapping fields of fire. Each formation would fly straight to their targets from the initial point, approximately 10 m