zed release would be "prejudicial" to the national secu- rity, not that it would "endanger" the national security as under the secret classification.4 The drop from secret to confidential did little to reduce friction among the Army, Navy, and Norden. Over the next three years Maj. Gen. Frank Andrews, commanding general of the General Headquarters Air Force, regularly accused Norden, Barth, and BuOrd of obstructing his efforts to integrate the Norden bombsight into Air Corps operations. Barth just as regularly accused Wright Field engineers of transferring Norden technol- ogy to the Sperry Corporation. Andrews believed Barth's policies had cre- ated a "know nothing" mentality among Materiel Division personnel, fear- ing they would be transferred or fired if they learned anything about the Norden bombsight.5 Army airmen, under attack for security leaks, bitterly challenged the Navy's policy of allowing Carl Norden to spend months in Switzerland working on bombsight-related projects. The Army secretly used Lt. Col. Herbert A. Dargue to spy on Norden's activities in Europe. Dargue dis- liked the lack of security, but admitted the Navy-Norden procedure of us- ing American diplomatic pouches to transport drawings and correspon- dence worked "very satisfactorily."6 On occasion the Navy tried to restrict Norden, but "Old Man Dyna- mite" refused to budge. He needed the tranquility of Switzerland to do his work. Anything of value, Norden claimed, was in his head. As war in Eu- rope threatened, the Army urged the Federal Bureau of Investigation to assign agents to follow Norden. Chief of the Air Corps Henry Arnold and FBI director J. Edgar Hoover were also concerned for Norden's continu- ing Dutch citizenship. The FBI investigation showed that Norden be- lieved the United States was the only country "deserving his invention and the only country which he felt would use it with judgment and dis- cretion."7 A series of public revelations in 1939 proved embarrassing. Time maga- z