s gradually giving up on high-altitude horizontal bombing in favor of dive bombing, BuOrd directed Carl Norden away from efforts to improve the Norden Mark XV bombsight in favor of an "aiming angle sight," des- ignated the Mark II, for dive bombers in July 1933. Encouragement came from the aircrew of the USS Saratoga, who experienced a "large percentage 105  106 Chapter 6 107 Navy Adopts Dive Bombing of misses," blamed on the lack of a proper bombsight. BuOrd contracted with the Sperry Gyroscope Company for a Mark I dive-bombing sight. The idea was to free the pilot from having to correct for dive angle, lift angle, release altitude, and diving speed.1 The Mark I was an extension of an earlier Sperry project to build an instrument that would indicate the proper diving angle. The Mark I would be a combination of the dive-angle indicator, a telescope, and an altimeter reading into the telescope. BuOrd did not specify a sight that would cor- rect for wind and target motion because of the apparent complexity and greater size and weight such calculations would involve and because free- ing the pilot of other responsibilities would allow him to concentrate on those two adjustments.2 Sperry delivered sixteen experimental Mark Is to BuOrd for testing in May 1935. The device consisted of an aircraft gun sight coupled to a gyroscope-driven computer and altimeter. The pilot preset the required altitude for bomb release, the expected air speed at the point of release, and the expected lift angle derived from tables based on the preset air speed. A gyroscope fed the dive angle to the computer, which automatically set the sighting arm in the gun sight. The pilot flew the aircraft at the preset speed, keeping the sighting arm fixed on the target while compensating for target motion, the effects of wind, and deflection. Squadron VB-4 tested the experimental Aiming Angle Sight, Mark I, against moving targets and concluded that it did "not afford a complete solution of the dive-bombi