ll on Venice, but most on the surrounding countryside. The Austrian army initiated a principle of air warfare that would guide air forces for the next 150 years: when the means and conditions for accurate bombing were unavailable, air forces would target easy-to-hit cities and the morale of the people who inhabited them. W Balloons gave way to powered, controlled, heavier-than-air flight in 1903 and the challenge of dropping a bomb accurately from the air became more complicated. Airplanes were faster and could overcome the influ- ences of wind, forcing bombardiers to solve the two-dimensional problem of range and deflection. To regularize this task, they designed bombsights that treated the sighting problem as a line-of-sight concern, similar to aim- ing a rifle. The first bombsight was a line painted on the fuselage of an aircraft. When the target came into the pilot's line of sight along this painted line, he released his bombs. It worked at one altitude, at one speed, and with one type of bomb, depending more on luck than skill. At lower altitudes accuracy was better, but at the cost of greater exposure to defen- sive fire. The technological imperative so prevalent in flight soon led to a two-nail bombsight, permitting the movement of nails vertically to adjust for altitude and horizontally to adjust for ground speed, but did little to improve accuracy.2 In 1910 Riley E. Scott, a former soldier in the U.S. Army, constructed the world's first practical bombsight allowing different speeds and alti- tudes. Calling his device a "means for dropping projectiles from aerial crafts," Scott combined a telescope for measuring the speed of the aircraft with a table of figures and a barometer for incorporating speed and altitude into the sight. The bombardier pointed the telescope at a 45-degree angle in front of the aircraft and waited for an object on the ground to intersect the scope's cross wire. Starting a stopwatch, he pivoted the telescope to the vertical position, s