931- 32, which could carry 1,000-pound bombs and release them in dives, the Curtiss BF2C in 1933, the Northrop BT-1 in 1937-38, and the Douglas SBD in time for World War II.61  4 68 69 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine The Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine C arl Norden disliked the business end of bombsight produc- tion-that was Ted Barth's responsibility. With the completion of his Mark XI design, Norden shifted to other challenges. He originally intended to build a dive-bombing sight, but in March 1929 BuOrd directed him to design an inexpensive low-altitude ho- rizontal flight bombsight to replace the Mark III. The Navy also wanted the General Electric Mark XIII, but lost interest because of its 200-pound weight, $10,000 per-item price, and promise of no major increase in accu- racy over the Norden Mark XI. With the Mark XI under production, de- velopment priorities focused on Norden's low-altitude utility sight. For a unit price of $600, BuOrd wanted gyroscopic stabilization, simplicity, a weight of 10 pounds, one-fourth the number of parts used in the Mark XI, accuracy comparable to the Mark XI, a Mark XI-type pilot direction indicator, and gauges to display ground speed and drift. BuOrd and Nor- den signed a contract for $20,500 on August 15, 1928, to cover the devel- opment of two bombsights, one using the timing principle for determining ground speed, the other the synchronous method. Designated the Mark XV, the contract called for delivery in 1931.1 Three factors combined to make the Mark XV the most advanced of its age, despite the contract's call for a low-altitude utility sight. First, the specifications were unrealistic, considering the $600 unit-cost estimate. Second, desk officers could plan for low-level bombsights, but flying offi- cers with the fleet were demanding high-altitude sights because improve- ments in antiaircraft artillery were forcing aircraft ever higher. Finally, the Navy failed to consider the character of