Field resulted in a scathing report to the chief of the Air Corps. Of the training maintenance men received, he said, "half of what they were taught at Lowry Field is wrong." The Air Corps re- sponded by raising the formal maintenance program at Lowry on July 1, 1940, to 16 weeks, sending Lowry instructors to special courses at the Norden plant in New York, and inviting Norden officials to visit Lowry regularly. With war approaching, the Air Corps reduced the training pro- gram to 12 weeks later that year. Three weeks later, after protests from Norden and the Navy, it extended the course to 14 weeks, adding two weeks of training specifically for the Norden SBAE/AFCE. To produce more qualified enlisted technicians, the Air Corps also canceled officer training at the Lowry training facility for several months. When officer training was restored in March of 1941, 16 weeks of the 30-week arma- ments officer course were devoted to bombsight maintenance. Training at the Norden plant in New York became an official operation in May 1940, though not without the controversy that so typified the Army-Navy-Norden relationship. For the first class the Army sent four- teen enlisted men, but the Norden Company would train but five, refusing entry to the other nine. When the Army tried to get fifteen students into  162 Chapter 9 The Young Men behind Plexiglas the second class in September 1940, BuOrd interfered and limited the en- rollment to ten. Norden wanted the course to be of three to four months' duration, while the Army insisted on six weeks. Similar to the problems facing the conversion of Norden to mass-production techniques in manu- facturing, Carl Norden and his craftsmen fought against the "mass pro- duction" of bombsight maintenance.33 The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor forced a complete revision of the maintenance training program. The Air Staff called for 3,480 mechanics to be trained in 1942, but later raised the quota to 4,160. Lowry went to a six-day work week, t