s of two junior reserve Captains."38 Carl Norden's bombsight had yet to drop a bomb in anger, but AWPD/1 would have to serve as America's blueprint for World War II until wartime experiences required its modification. For the doctrine to work, command- ers had no choice but to send larger forces on each mission, flooding tar- gets with bombers and bombs to insure their destruction. The gun of stra-  104 Chapter 5 6 tegic bombing would still be aimed at specific targets of the "industrial fabric," "those vital objectives in a nation's economic structure which will tend to paralyze that nation's ability to wage war ... [and] will to resist," but instead of a rifle, the Army Air Forces would use a shotgun. Four months after the submission of AWPD/1, the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor.39 The Navy Adopts Dive Bombing for World War F leet Problem IX at Panama, January 23-27, 1929, under the command of Adm. William V. Pratt, established the aircraft and aircraft carrier in Navy plans. The USS Saratoga acted as an in- dependent task force under Rear Adm. Joseph M. Reeves and successfully attacked the Panama Canal. The issue was basic-would the Navy's offensive capabilities focus on battleships firing large shells at tar- gets up to 20 miles away or on bombers dropping large bombs on targets up to 200 miles away? Combat missions in Nicaragua and fleet exercises showed the potential of dive bombing, but the Navy had too much tradi- tion and too many resources invested in battleships and torpedo and hori- zontal bombers to rely solely on still-unproven dive bombing. Before the Navy could focus on dive bombing, it had to advance the technology of dive-bomb aiming beyond the "eye-balling" used with Lieu- tenant Sanderson's "large canvas mail sacks." In an early indication that it was gradually giving up on high-altitude horizontal bombing in favor of dive bombing, BuOrd directed Carl Norden away from efforts to improve the Norden Mark XV bombsight in favor of an "aiming angle si