g Norden's LABA superfluous. The Materiel Division requested it deleted at a "considerable savings of mate- rial and skilled labor." BuOrd notified all concerned that it had stopped production of the LABA on December 16, 1942, by which time Norden had completed 3,797 attachments.53  128 Chapter 7 129 Preparation for War The AES had a similar history. The Norden bombsight required the bombardier to level the stabilizer gyroscope manually-no small task un- der combat conditions. Most Army Air Forces units called it "bubble chas- ing" or "chasing the bubble." Fifteenth Air Force called it "bubble, bubble, toil and trouble," and the Navy called it "the curse of the Mark XV bomb- sight." A good level eliminated the need to make large corrections during the bomb run; a bad level required a prolonged straight and level bomb run under enemy fire. The Air Corps insisted on the AES because Sperry had successfully built such a capability into its bombsights, beginning with the N-1. Carl Norden completed his AES in mid-1938 for the Mod. 4/M-6 Nor- den bombsight. Testing and modification took two years, by which time the Navy had redesignated it the Mod. 5/M-7, the first Norden bombsight to operate on 24 volts. The Army and Navy procured 16,725 of the Mod. 5/M-7, the first wartime version of the Norden bombsight. Service use revealed Norden's AES too delicate and complicated and in August 1942 BuOrd stopped production.54 Still wanting a solution to "bubble chasing," the Army Air Forces pur- sued development of an AES with the Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Company of Minneapolis, Delco Products of Dayton, Alcon Specialties Company of Locust Valley on Long Island, and the Victor Adding Ma- chine Company of Chicago. Renamed the automatic gyro leveling device (AGLD) to avoid conflict with Norden and BuOrd, none proved ef- fective.55 Carl Norden completed his design for the GBA in February 1941, but admitted that it increased the bombsight's inherent errors because of the difficult