onclusion: "from 10,000 feet the chance of hitting a moving ship with those instruments [current bomb- sights], is extremely remote." The Navy continued to develop an air force because of the obvious advantages in range and observation aircraft pro- vided, but aircraft needed much improved bombing accuracy if they were to become an important weapon for commanding the seas.8 The Naval Bureau of Ordnance (BuOrd) held responsibility for devel- oping bombsights. The challenge was clear. Against the Ostfriesland, from altitudes of less than 2,500 feet, Navy aircraft had achieved an accuracy rate of only 19 percent against a fixed target bigger than the broad side of a barn-546 feet long and 93 feet wide. At an accuracy of 30 percent, Mitchell's bombers, using World War I Michelins and the Navy's Mark III-A bombsights, did little better.ยบ The Mark III-A performed adequately, but could be used only in calm weather because it suffered from excessive vibrations. Crews demanded "some sort of an automatic device to keep it [the Mark III-A] in a perpendicular at all times." Both the Navy and the 9  48 Chapter 3 To Sink Ships Army had to develop improved bombsights if air power were to achieve the role Mitchell and others had claimed for it.10 The Mark III was a low-altitude bombsight because it lacked a lens for improving the power of the human eye. Although it represented a techno- logical dead end, a rapidly declining budget forced the Navy to refine this existing device rather than develop a new instrument. Tests revealed that without some means of stabilizing the Mark III in a bucking aircraft, little increase in accuracy would be possible. So limited in performance was the Mark III that pilots preferred using their "personal judgment" in bombing practice to aiming with the modified Wimperis device. On January 15, 1920, Cdr. Arthur C. Stott of BuOrd asked a Brooklyn-based engineer, Carl L. Norden, to investigate the possibility of gyroscopic stabilization for the Mark III.