ply increasing its mass.50 Walker wrote a series of studies on the issues of low- and high-altitude bombing. Because when released at 160 MPH a bomb traveled 235 feet per second, rolling was a serious problem. Against a bridge, a bomb would have to be dropped to come to rest on the bridge, where it would do only superficial damage. Attempts to navigate at low altitudes added to inaccu- 87 racy. Walker knew that the RAF had proved low-altitude bombing was more dangerous than high. Defenses could locate their guns along the best avenues of low-altitude approach and erect barrage balloons, making suc- cessful bombing improbable. His own research showed that in the 123/5 seconds necessary for an antiaircraft artillery shell to reach 15,000 feet, a bomber at 160 MPH would move 2,957 feet to safety. Testing showed that because of reduced angular error at higher alti- tudes, bombing accuracy decreased only by the square root of the quotient of the change in altitude, while the accuracy of antiaircraft fire decreased by the square of the quotient. Up was clearly the way to go. Walker con- cluded that low-altitude bombing had its uses, especially against targets requiring a high degree of accuracy: trucks, tanks, parked aircraft, ammu- nition dumps, railroad rolling stock, and roadbeds. The inability to pro- duce the mining effect for a low-altitude release, however, reduced the ex- plosive power of bombs by four and a half times.51 For proof, Walker examined the Army's tests against the Pee Dee bridge in late 1927. Engineers used both static charges and bombs dropped from 6,000 feet to compare the efficiency of tamping, or burying bombs beneath the surface of the earth, to intensify the effect of the explosives. Both static charges and bombs with instantaneous fuzes caused little damage to the bridge. Delay-fuzed bombs and static charges buried in the sand near bridge beams "completely destroyed" them and caused spans to fall. Sur- face blasts shattered the concrete surface