atch up with demand by late 1943, but declining quality resulting from the mass-production techniques adopted for the Norden bombsight in wartime threatened to become a scandal. In December Wright Field tested 200 M-9 model Norden bombsights pro- duced by Norden, Remington Rand, Burroughs, Lukas-Harold, and Vic- tor, finding "them to be inferior to those sights which were being produced about two years ago." The Army Air Forces asked for a conference with BuOrd and Norden to discuss the problem, but Norden engineers dis- missed Wright Field representatives with a curt "there are only two ways to produce bombsights, the Norden way and the wrong way." The Army Air Forces believed the biggest problem was the "incomplete, inaccurate and obsolete" engineering data Norden provided to the other plants, which forced, for example, the recall of the first 600 sights produced at Victor. Col. R. E. Jarman, technical executive of the Armament Labora- tory at Wright Field, concluded: "I have been in this Norden-Navy-Army Air Forces scramble for the past three years, and as a result of this last trip, insofar as I am concerned, if I never enter the Norden factory again and deal with their high executive personnel, it will be too soon."26 Quality did not improve. In late 1944 Wright Field was still reporting 75 to 80 percent of all bombsights did not meet specifications. The average inherent error of the 1944 Norden bombsights was 14 mils, considerably over the 2.5 mils called for in Navy specifications. In operation this differ- ence meant missing a target from 20,000 feet by 50 feet with a bombsight meeting specifications, compared to 280 feet with a 1944 bombsight. Ma- teriel Division testing showed Norden-produced bombsights remained the best, with Burroughs second, and sights from Remington Rand, Lukas- Harold, and Victor the worst. Wright Field concluded that the Norden bombsights produced in 1944 were "not sufficiently accurate to hit the pickle barrel."27 Greater manufactur