ns short. On visual missions, each additional 100 feet of altitude caused an increase in circular error of 6.1 feet, the result of increased atmospheric influences and the effect of additional pure oxygen use by the crew. Each additional flak gun caused 4.5 feet more error. A smoke screen added 281.9 feet.50 Human error in the use of the Norden technology similarly contributed to inaccuracy. The Norden M-series bombsight was a precision bombing device, but only as accurate as the information the bombardier fed it. An altitude miscalculation of 250 feet resulted in an error of 136 feet in range and deflection. An error in wind speed determination of 20 MPH added 120 feet of error. One Army Air Forces study estimated that human errors contributed 1,277 feet of error to an average bombing mission.51 The inherent limits of the Norden technology also affected accuracy. The key to the Norden bombsight's accuracy was the precision of its man- ufacturing process in eliminating friction between the moving parts. Ex- cessive friction changed the analogs representing the mathematical formu- las solved by the relative movements of the bombsight's discs, gears, and cogs. Wartime demands forced Carl Norden, his company, and other man- ufacturers to adopt mass-production techniques that gave average inherent inaccuracies 5.6 times greater than specifications. Wright Field's Materiel  Chapter 10 186 187 Precision Strategic Bombing against Germany Command reported in August 1944 that a major factor behind bombing inaccuracy was the fact that the majority of the [Norden] bombsights in use by the combat forces and training organizations have errors in excess of the specifica- tion. When the service, as a whole, realizes the sights they are now using are not sufficiently accurate to hit the pickle barrel, the question imme- diately arises as to what will happen and what effect this will have on morale. ... Air Service Command feel that this is of sufficient impor- tance and is so susce