ns of high-altitude bombs. 20 The flammability of Japanese cities beckoned. Unable to destroy the machines of war, LeMay resolved to kill the human beings who operated the machines and to destroy the cities that housed the machines. Despite the Japanese civilians about to die, LeMay was still thinking as a graduate of the Air Corps Tactical School. Japanese industries were yet the target and he was going to keep them from operating even if in this roundabout fashion. In his memoirs he wrote: No matter how you slice it, you're going to kill an awful lot of civilians. Thousands and thousands. But if you don't destroy the Japanese indus- try, we're going to have to invade Japan. And how many Americans will be killed in an invasion of Japan? Five hundred thousand seems to be the lowest estimate. Some say a million. ... We're at war with Japan. We were attacked by Japan. Do you want to kill Japanese or would you rather have Americans killed? The lessons of area-bombing Dresden, Germany, on February 13, 1945, were still fresh. American Marines were dying on Iwo Jima-6,821 of them-to support LeMay's bombers. The time for a radical change in strategy had come.21 The Air Staff pushed for a switch to incendiary area bombing, but LeMay believed high altitudes would limit effectiveness. Poor ballistics made the M-69 incendiary cluster unaimable from high altitudes. Conven- tional wisdom judged low-altitude missions too dangerous, but LeMay's intelligence sources told him that Japan had not deployed low-altitude an- tiaircraft artillery because of its experience against high-altitude B-29s. Area bombing did not need the precision of daylight, so the darkness of night and surprise made low altitudes safer. It was the greatest gamble of his career. Low altitudes, unhindered by the jet stream and heavy cloud formations, compensated for the lost accuracy of night bombing. The X-1 Reflex Sight Attachment with coated optics to increase light transmis- sion made the Norden M-9 bombsigh