oretical study. Technology followed doctrine be- cause the backbone of the air fleet at the genesis of the daylight precision strategic bombing idea was the B-3A Keystone Panther, a twin-engine bi- plane with a skin of doped-fabric stretched over steel tubing. The Key- stone had an open cockpit, struts and wires between the wings, fixed land- ing gear, and could carry only 2,500 pounds of bombs 363 miles at 103 MPH up to a service ceiling of 12,000 feet. It lacked the range, speed, bomb load, altitude, and dependability to carry out a strategic bombing doctrine. Bombsights in service at the time, including the Estoppey D-1 and D-4 and the Norden-modified Mark III, offered accuracy considerably short of the demands of this fledgling doctrine. When modern bombers equipped with Norden M-series bombsights began to appear in Air Corps invento- ries, the doctrine was already at the core of the ACTS curriculum.44 Doctrine therefore evolved in a technological vacuum. Despite limited capabilities, the Army's air force developed a doctrine of strategic bombing based on precision, in keeping with its need to bomb attacking ships in the defensive role and to target individual industries, not civilians, in the  84 Chapter 4 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine offensive role. Maj. Gen. James E. Fechet, chief of the Air Corps, encour- aged his airmen to look beyond the battlefield when he criticized them in 1928 for their conservative thinking in developing air doctrine limited to supporting the Army. Fechet wanted a doctrine that would give his air force the responsibility of winning wars independently.45 1st Lt. Kenneth N. Walker answered Fechet's call. After serving in the 2nd Bombardment Group at Langley Field, Walker attended the ACTS in 1929 and, upon graduation, became an instructor there. While Fechet wanted wide-ranging theoretical thinking on the role of the Army's air arm, Walker preferred to consider the practical problems of aerial bomb- ing. Working syste