d to several hundred career officers, security was mainly a matter of good paperwork. When tens of thousands of civilians rushed into bombardier and'bombsight maintenance training beginning in 1940, security became a nightmare. The Army Air Forces assigned local commanders responsibility for in- suring all personnel granted access receive instruction in the importance of security. Local rules were to "insure an unusual degree of secrecy." Ship- ping was to be done under a code system, substituting the words "siding, latent, telescope, mickey, dusty, external, and talon" for "bombsight." If shipped by Army truck or aircraft, the bombsight and SBAE/AFCE re- quired an armed guard. If threatened with enemy capture, the device was to be destroyed.17 To impress young trainees with the seriousness of security, some com- manders required their charges to take a bombardier's oath. In the presence of Almighty God, I do solemnly swear and affirm that I will accept the sacred trust placed in me by my Commander in Chief, the President of the United States of America, by whose direction I have been chosen for bombardier training. I pledge myself to live and act according to the code of honor of the bombardiers of the Army Air Forces. I solemnly swear that I will keep inviolate the secrecy of any and all confidential information revealed to me, and in full knowledge that I am a guardian of one of my country's most priceless military assets, do further swear to protect the secrecy of the American Bombsight, if need be, with my life itself.18 Stateside, bombardiers in training learned the routine: trips to the bomb- sight vault with an armed escort, the long walk with a heavy metal bomb- sight box to the airplane, the metal covers and stowage boxes on the air- craft for hiding and securing the SBAE/AFCE and bombsight, and the hours spent under arms guarding the instruments on the aircraft. Not until August 29, 1942, did General Arnold retreat from the absolute commit- ment to securi