uld agree on the choke-points that would strangle the German economy. One thing was for sure-the United States would not target civilians. Ira Eaker said later that "we should never allow the history of this war to convict us of throwing the strategic bomber at the man in the street."6 Arnold's Committee of Operations Analysts, committed to selective, precision bombing, believed it "better to use a high degree of destruction in a few really essential industries or services than to cause a small degree of destruction in many industries." The committee recommended six in- dustries for destruction, in order of priority: submarines, aircraft, ball bearings, oil, synthetic rubber, and military transport. Under the direction of Col. Richard D'O. Hughes, formerly of the AWPD/1 unit, the Enemy Objectives Unit of the American embassy in London selected seventy-six targets in these industries, the destruction of which "would have the great- est, most prompt, and most long-lasting direct military effect on the bat- tlefield." Incorporated into a Combined Bomber Offensive in June 1943, code-named POINTBLANK, all that remained was to destroy the targets.7 Eighth Air Force strength slowly rose to fifteen groups in June 1943 and twenty-six in December. Fifteenth Air Force added nine more, en- abling the Army Air Forces to launch missions of 750 bombers by January 1944, 1,000 bombers by February. It would need them all because of poor bombing accuracy. Against Amiens/Longeau, the circular error was 3,550 feet. At Lille the circular error was 5,000 feet, achieved at a cost of four bombers. According to the official history of the Army Air Forces in the war, the results were "disappointing to all those . . . trained in the pickle- barrel school of bombing." If not corrected, the "Norden bombsight . .. would be valueless" and "the ideal of precision which underlay the Ameri- can bombardment theory" would have been "compromised." Eighth Air Force blamed mechanical errors, target miside