litical man, Norden's three great hatreds were Hitler, Hirohito, and Franklin Roosevelt, the latter because he had de- faulted on the gold clause in U.S. bonds and gold certificates. For Norden this was not a political but moral issue, for he believed in absolute integrity. Any man who did not keep his promises deserved no emotion but hatred. On the outside and to those with whom he worked, Norden was a man of "immense nervous energy, excitable and volatile, with an unholy tem- per." The Navy referred to him as "Old Man Dynamite." He had a "pro- nounced disdain for lesser minds," to the extent that he was generally un- sociable and reclusive. His "self-imposed obscurity" was so successful that Americans knew more of his secret bombsight than of him. One major reason for Norden's penchant for privacy was his exacting standards that few could meet. An incident that revealed this side of his character in- volved an autobiographical sketch he was to write for the man who was to award Norden the Holley Award for mechanical engineering in 1944. The 89  52 Chapter 3 To Sink Ships presenter's instructions were for Norden to write "about 400 words." On a whim, the man counted the words in the autobiography when it arrived- exactly 400 words. He was brutally direct in all his actions. According to his son, Carl Nor- den "laid down the law as though he were Moses descending the moun- tain." He established nonsmoking areas throughout his plant to maintain the dust-free conditions required for precision manufacturing, but con- stantly violated this restriction with his own cigars. Once an employee asked him why he had designed a part a certain way. Norden answered, "I had 10,000 reasons, none of which are any of your damn business." He rarely became directly involved with company projects during World War II, limiting himself to brief observations and to setting ground rules. His ground rules, however, became laws once uttered. One such law that caused difficulties for most of t