bombsight . .. would be valueless" and "the ideal of precision which underlay the Ameri- can bombardment theory" would have been "compromised." Eighth Air Force blamed mechanical errors, target misidentification, poor formation flying, improper aiming procedures, and enemy defenses.8 Rather than dropping bombs into pickle barrels, Eighth Air Force bom- bardiers were having trouble hitting the broad side of a barn. The Army 169 Air Forces Bombing Board and the Operational Research Section of VIII Bomber Command, Eighth Air Force's operational command, evaluated American efforts and determined daylight precision strategic bombing would work, if training and maintenance improved.ยบ Missions to Germany were too costly in aircrews and aircraft just to miss the target. In the first five months of bombing the average circular error was 900 feet, twice the prewar average.10 The preferred American bomb until April 1943, the 1,000-pound M-44, packed with 547 pounds of TNT (trinitrotoluene), created a crater 13 feet deep and 45 feet in diameter in sandy loam with a delayed fuze. Even such big bombs required at least a near-miss to destroy a target-hard to achieve with an average circular error of 900 feet. Brig. Gen. Newton Longfellow, commanding general of VIII Bomber Com- mand, was the foremost advocate of big bombs with delayed fuzes, arguing that the bigger the explosion and the larger the mining effect, the greater the damage. The Bombs and Fuzes Subsection of the Operational Research Section of Eighth Air Force used actual bombings to prove, however, that many smaller bombs had a better chance of achieving a hit. Shorter fuzes would cause explosions in the structural members of a building, increasing frag- mentation and causing greater damage to machinery. Section studies showed four bombs with delayed fuzes of 0.25 seconds could produce about 6,400 square feet of damage. With 0.01-second delays, the bombs produced about 16,000 square feet of damage. The short-delay 500-p