h had caused so many problems for those involved in the Manhattan Project, worked to perfection. A city died.3 Three days later, the second atomic bomber, Bock's Car, flew first to Kokura, but haze and smoke from a burning steel mill bombed two days earlier concealed the target, the Kokura Arsenal. The great flaw of the optical Norden bombsight prevented Kokura's rendezvous with destruc- tion-perhaps the greatest "close call" in history, especially because it had also been the back-up target for the Hiroshima mission. Clouds covered the primary Nagasaki target, the Mitsubishi Shipyards, but the pilot, Maj. Charles Sweeney, decided to make a radar bombing run because of fuel problems. A brief hole in the clouds three miles from the primary allowed the bombardier, Capt. Kermit Beahan, to lock his Norden sight on the secondary target, the Mitsubishi Steel and Arms Works. After 52 seconds of fall from 31,000 feet, the 22,000 tons of TNT-equivalent that was the "Fat Man" atomic bomb exploded at 1,650 feet above Nagasaki, nearly 1,500 feet from the aiming point.4 From direct causes and by 1950 from delayed causes, 200,000 had died in Hiroshima and 140,000 in Nagasaki from the two atomic bombs.5 Ac- cording to the prewar air power prophets, such attacks on civilians would bring a quick end to war. Forty-five months after the attack on Pearl Har- bor, the Japanese surrendered. Was the surrender due to these terribly de- structive attacks on civilians, or was Japan, nearly prostrate from blockade and conventional bombing, already prepared to surrender? When humans fought with swords, lances, and pikes, accuracy was not a major concern. When humans first threw rocks, sharpened sticks, or spears, they quickly learned that the advantages of range were minimal without accuracy. David practiced with his sling to improve accuracy. The Romans wound cords around their javelins to give them spin and improve accuracy. In the age of gunpowder, gunsmiths added rifling to improve accurac