ame an instructor there. While Fechet wanted wide-ranging theoretical thinking on the role of the Army's air arm, Walker preferred to consider the practical problems of aerial bomb- ing. Working systematically, he developed a mathematical approach for calculating probable error in bombing. Field tests using 329 practice bombs dropped on a 100-foot circle from 5,000 feet showed him that the Air Corps could expect between 25 and 31 percent to hit the target. Using his mathematical method, this translated into a circular error probable of 147 feet, meaning that from 5,000 feet the Air Corps could plan on getting at least 50 percent of their bombs to fall within 147 feet of the target.46 In late 1929 Walker switched his attention to a decade-old Air Service Bomb Board recommendation that the United States develop delayed nose and tail fuzes for use in low-altitude bombing. The board's thinking was that low-altitude bombing was the most accurate, but detonation would have to be delayed to allow bombing aircraft to escape. The immediate cause for his action was Fechet's decision in 1928 to cancel the fuze devel- opment project. Airmen had always accepted low-altitude bombing as su- perior in accuracy and destructiveness, though less safe than high-altitude bombing. Walker intended to test the validity of this truism. Writing the Materiel Division at Wright Field, he requested information on current bombsight development. The answer, penned by Capt. Clarence F. Hof- stetter, was more optimistic than the actual state of bombsight affairs. Hof- stetter reported that significant progress had been achieved since World War I. The 1918 Mark I Wimperis sight gave an average error of 790 feet from an altitude of 8,000 feet, the 1925 D-4 160 feet, and a planned new model (the C-3) 80 feet. Hofstetter attributed this progress to gyroscopic stabilization, improved optical sights, refined mechanical components, and continuous synchronous sighting. "However," the bombsight expert concl