ng to make possible research trips to the primary materials on which this study is based. of Honor: The World War One Letters of Naval Aviator Kenneth Macleish, ed- ited by Geoffrey L. Rossano. Copyright @ 1991 by the U.S. Naval Insti- tute, Annapolis, Maryland. Selections from Words on War by Jay M. Sha- fritz. Copyright @ 1990. Reprinted by permission of the publisher, Prentice Hall/A Division of Simon & Schuster, New York. Selections from Voices from the Great War by Peter Vansittart. Copyright @ 1984. Used with permission of the publisher, Franklin Watts, Inc., New York. Finally, my love, admiration, and apologies to my family for the seven years this effort required. This book belongs to them. At Auburn University Drs. Gordon C. Bond, Curtis T. Henson, Wesley P. Newton, and William F. Trimble provided assistance, consultations, support, and criticism. Thanks also to Dr. Richard K. Smith, whose technical knowledge and keen critical eye made a special contribution, and to Therese D. Boyd of Initial Cap Editorial Services for the most essential of book publishing functions, copyediting. I wish I could thank the staff of the Freedom of Information-Privacy Acts Section of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, but two and one-half years of waiting to access 1,000 pages of blacked-out 50-year-old files is hardly in keeping with the ideals of a government of the people, by the people, and for the people. Thanks to Congressman Glen Browder of Ala- bama for his attempts to break through the bureaucratic logjam of the Freedom of Information Act, that hoax perpetrated by official Washington on the American people in the name of democracy and open government. Photographs are courtesy of Hagley Museum and Library, Library of Congress, U.S. Air Force Historical Research Agency, U.S. Air Force Air University Office of History, National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution, Norden Systems Division of United Technolo- gies, and the National Archives. Text selection