ted sighting telescope." Carl Norden had designed an analog computer, so-called because the device was a physical or mechanical analog of the mathematical equations used to solve the bombing problem.16 Each turn of the gears in the Norden bombsight represented or was analogous to the number quantities of these equations, including air speed, ground speed, time of fall, and so on. For example, taken from the patent, An extension of screw 27 carries a pinion 42 that is meshed with the teeth of rack 43 on range bar 44 to which is attached a pin 45 that slides  74 Chapter 4 Sombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine in a radially extending slot 46 in range quadrant 47; it is obvious that rotation of screw 27 will shift rack 43 and so turn quadrant 47 through an angle « which is tan- S b2 which is readily seen to be equal to tan-1 R H where R is the range and H the altitude of the trunnions of telescope 40, which is shown as being on the target and inclined at the range angle, i.e., in the position it has at the time the bomb is dropped. So much for patents and descriptions of analog computers. Although Norden's mathematical equations were exact, the mechanical components that represented them in physical form were subject to manu- facturing errors, friction, slippage, wear, and other limiting factors. The accuracy, or rather inaccuracy, of the bombsight was the sum of its manu- facturing tolerances. The Norden Company performed eighty-four differ- ent tests on its antifriction ball bearings before accepting them for use. Craftsmen then hand-polished each bearing to fit into the bearing seat. In theory the bombsight was capable of perfect accuracy, but the reality of manufacturing created an inherent inaccuracy. In the wartime version, the optical system was a one-piece refracting telescope with an 18-degree field and 2.2 magnifying power, motor-driven to follow the target. Cross hairs etched on the lens transected the target, reflected into the telescope by a moving mirro