he telescope motor toggle switch to the "ON" position and check disc speed with a type 43D-3 bombsight disc speed tachometer. 229  230 Appendix E 231 Operation of Norden Mark 15/M-Series Bombsight b. Adjust the altitude knob until the correct disc speed reading is obtained on the tachometer. c. Continue checking and adjusting until the correct speed, within 1/2 RPM, is obtained on at least three checks. d. Move the telescope motor toggle switch to the "OFF" position. 2. Set trail into the sight by loosening the knurled nut, moving the trail arm to the correct mil value as indicated by the scale on the trail plate and tight- ening the knurled knob to lock the trail arm at this setting. I. Check reflex optics-on bombsights equipped with the type X-1 reflex sight. check this unit to make certain that its indicator is coincident with the tele- scope indicator. 1. If these indicators are not coincident, align them by moving the reflex optics clutch to its inoperative position, manually rotating the reflex optic head until its indicator is at the same angle as the bombsight telescopic indicator, and re- engaging the clutch. 2. Turn the rheostat which controls the light that illuminates the reticle of the reflex sight to provide the desired intensity of illumination of the cross hairs on the reflector plate. J. Move the telescope motor drive clutch into engaged position and make sure the telescope sector indicator is positioned at, or near, the maximum sighting angle for convenience in picking up the target when it is first sighted. K. Preset dropping angle from the automatic bombing computer, or from the E-6B, and use the rate knob to move the rate sector indicator to the proper setting on the tangent scale. L. Adjust the B-7 bombsight mount to level the stabilizer. Use the leveling bub- bles mounted on top of the bombsight gyro housing to judge the vertical. Make sure that the bombsight gyro is caged and that the airplane is fly is flying straight and level before perfor