or dropping two or more bombs in succession to achieve a predetermined pattern of explosions on the ground. See Train bombing. M-series bombsights Army designation for Norden synchronous bombsights, series M-1 through M-9. Mark XI bombsights Navy designation for Norden timing bombsights. Mark XV bombsights Navy designation for Norden synchronous bombsights, Mod. 1 through Mod. 5, redesignated Mark 15 during World War II. Mil Navy method of measuring bombsight accuracy, in terms of angular mea- surement of errors, equal to a distance of one foot for each 1,000 feet of altitude. At 25,000 feet of altitude, an error of one mil would result in a ground error of 25 feet (Ground Error = mil × (alt/1,000). Mining effect Increase in destructive power of a bomb by burying in the earth prior to detonation, estimated at approximately 41/2 times the power of a bomb's high explosive charge. Effect is achieved through tamping. Morale bombing (also spelled "moral" bombing) Attempting to destroy the will of an enemy people by the terror of direct bombing on that people. MPI (Mean Point of Impact) Center of impact of a pattern of bombs. NOSMO (Norden Sight Modification) Norden optical bombsights combined with H2X airborne radar. Overcast Covering of clouds. Expressed in tenths (1/10th, 2/10ths, etc.) to rep- resent the degree of vision blockage. Also undercast, referring more directly to a cloud layer below aircraft. Pattern bombing Dropping a number of bombs from a formation of bombers to achieve a relatively uniform distribution for the purpose of saturating a target  236 Glossary Glossary 237 to improve the probabilities of hitting the target. Also known as carpet bombing. See Saturation bombing. Pitch Movement of an airplane around its lateral axis (from wing tip to wing tip). Precision target Targets that, to be destroyed, require either a direct hit by a bomb of the proper size or a hit within a limited distance therefrom. Radial error Direct linear distance from the target to