d for forces such as the earth's rotation during the seconds a bomb was in flight. The bombardier adjusted the speed of a mo- tor that moved the telescope to synchronize the speed of the target moving under the aircraft to the speed of the cross wires' movement over the ground. A motor displaced a roller inside the sight an amount equal to the speed of target relative to the aircraft multiplied by the time of bomb fall. The roller in turn moved a range bar on a graduated scale. When this bar lined up with the axis of the sighting scope fixed on the target, the Mark XV automatically dropped the bombs. The entire process took only 10 seconds. Although it was just a prototype on a test stand, Entwistle recog- nized Norden's device as a revolutionary bombsight design.4 Over the next year Norden technicians labored to turn the experimental design into a development prototype. BuOrd had such confidence in Carl Norden that it refused BuAer and Battle Force requests for overhauling existing or distributing new Mark XIs. It would be the Mark XV or noth- ing. The last Mark XI came out of the Norden shop in 1933 and remained in Navy inventory until 1938. After spending $316,000 for Norden's tim- ing bombsight, the Navy was poised to begin a synchronous bombsight project that would in the end cost $1.5 billion.5 Norden delivered two development prototypes, one timing and the other synchronous, to the Dahlgren Naval Proving Ground in February 1931. Dahlgren would decide which worked best, also comparing both to the Mark XI. The experienced bombardiers at Dahlgren found they could adjust Norden's synchronous Mark XV in only 6 seconds compared to 50 seconds for the Mark XI. The Mark XV dropped bombs with twice the accuracy of the Mark XI, in large part due to an automatic bomb release feature that eliminated human variability in pushing the bomb release but- ton. At 160 MPH, a bombardier dropping one second late would increase his bombing error by more than 200 feet. Dahlgren drop