r right, you hold it by might; We would if we could, but we can't. It seems that the sea is entirely Navy- Army planes should remain o'er land, the land, the land Army planes should remain o'er the land. Lt. Col. Frank Andrews of the Office of the Chief of the Air Corps had been behind the idea for the Shasta bombing. When Benjamin Foulois took over as chief of the Air Corps in December 1931, one of his first actions was to replace Andrews.65 With the Great Depression and the penury that typified Depression- era military budgets, Air Corps leaders knew they were running out of time and money to equip Air Corps bombers with effective bombsights. In early 1932 Wright Field's 1st Lt. Clarence S. Thorpe toured Navy and Army production and testing facilities to judge the quality of American bombsight development and to find some ray of hope for improving bombing accuracy. Thorpe reported little progress, but with some chagrin "discovered" that the Carl L. Norden Company of New York was prepar- ing an assembly line to manufacture a new and previously unknown (to the Army) Navy bombsight that promised a significant improvement in ac- curacy.66 Thorpe's Navy counterpart, Lt. Malcolm F. Schoeffel, also began an inspection of Air Corps facilities. His report revealed the poor state of Army bombsight development. The Sperry L-1 lacked accuracy. The Sperry C-4 was overweight, behind schedule, and its deflection error was "so large as to be unsuitable for service use." Schoeffel thought the Estoppey D-7 the best Army bombsight, but effective only at low altitudes. The Navy's bombsight expert concluded that the new Norden stabilization system was superior, had a better means for allowing the bombardier to direct the pilot to the target, and was mechanically simpler.67 Schoeffel convinced Thorpe that the new Norden bombsight was per- haps the most accurate bombsight in the world. It had "not been seen by  Chapter 2 44 any one at the [Materiel] Division, and, therefore, the compara