f Congress." Barth still refused, claiming he was "morally bound" to sell all Norden bombsights to the Navy.1 Despite such difficulties, the shotgun of the Army Air Corps doctrine of daylight precision strategic bombing needed an aiming device. The Norden Mark XV/M-series bombsight was it, if it could be procured in quantities sufficient to equip the thousands of bombers required for a stra- tegic bombing campaign. In the seven years from the beginning of produc- tion to the outbreak of World War II, Carl L. Norden, Inc., assembled 847 Mark XV bombsights for the Army and Navy, one at a time, at its 80 Lafa- yette Street, one-floor factory in New York. Carl Norden controlled every aspect of design and construction. Workers hand-tooled each part to his specifications. He inspected each piece, more often than not ordering a part "thrown out the window" if not perfect.2 Workers had to grind and polish several hundred ball bearings for each bombsight by hand. The key to Norden's successful design was to produce each sight, one at a time, to minimize the friction between moving parts that represented the mathe- matical formulas, or analogs, of the bombsighting problem. In preparing for war, planners were looking for tens of thousands of Norden bomb- sights. Could they be mass-produced? The Army would have to rely on the Navy, which had largely given up on the Norden bombsight, but was nevertheless responsible for producing it. Moreover, the Army had to rely on the Navy to upgrade and modify the Norden bombsight and associated equipment to meet Army needs. One service assigned the Norden bombsight its highest priority for wartime production, while the other gave it a lower priority. Only war against the Axis powers prevented war from breaking out between the two American services over the Norden bombsight. Confusion reigned over exactly how many were needed. In November 1938 President Roosevelt told his military commanders to work toward an Air Corps of 20,000 aircraft, th