t down the verti- cal cross hair on the telescope lens. He "killed" rate by adjusting the rate knob to complete the synchronization of the telescope mirror and the movement of the aircraft relative to the target. This made the target ap- pear motionless when viewed through the telescope.19 Finally, using the displacement knob, the bombardier adjusted the telescope to place the tar- get squarely on the horizontal cross hair. The bombsight automatically calculated the ground speed and the proper range angle, flew the aircraft directly to the correct release point, and released the aircraft's bombs.20 Once the bombardier had synchronized the bombsight, stability was es- sential. Any deviation of the sight from the true vertical or horizontal broke the synchronized lock among the bombsight disc speed, the tele- scope mirror, and the ground speed of the aircraft. The vertical gyroscope in the bombsight head stabilized the optics against roll and pitch move- ment and the directional gyroscope in a stabilizer assembly, on which the bombsight itself was mounted, counteracted any motion in yaw. Eleven years separated the delivery of the Mark XV test model to Dahl- gren from Cdr. Arthur C. Stott's contact with Carl Norden about Mark III stabilization. While America entertained itself with the Jazz Age, gorged itself on the stock market, and separated itself from international responsi- bilities, Carl Norden, a Dutch citizen, using his mind, a slide rule, a book of engineering tables, and a few basic manuals, designed the most sophisti- cated and most secret military weapon in American history to that time. It was the weapon, born in a time of isolation and pacifism, that later would add teeth to a worldwide crusade to crush fascism. Carl L. Norden, Inc., delivered its production model Mark XV to the Navy in September 1932. The Army received its first Norden, Army desig-  76 Chapter 4 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine nation M-1, in April 1933. Not including prod