rty was acceptable,  Chapter 4 80 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine but the "indiscriminate bombing of a city for the sole purpose of terroriz- ing the civilian population" was "illegitimate." Bombing exercises in the 1930s forced Air Chief Marshal Edgar Ludlow-Hewitt to conclude that the RAF was incapable of achieving precision high-altitude bombing, which made targeting industrial targets unlikely. That left cities as targets, but Director of Plans Air Commodore John C. Slessor rejected "indis- criminate attacks on civilian populations." When the British entered the war, the RAF officially clung to daylight precision bombing,33 while con- sidering night precision and area bombing. The RAF had not prepared a precision bombing force, however, making the issue academic.34 Germany produced no prophets or strategic-bombing doctrine equal to Britain and the United States. Douhet's Command of the Air appeared in Germany in 1929, but had no significant impact on German military thinking. As a continental nation surrounded by enemies, German strate- gists looked to blitzkrieg warfare, which would leave the industries and resources of surrounding nations intact for German conquest and exploi- tation. In 1936 the Luftwaffe had two designs for heavy bombers, the Junkers (Ju) 89 and Dornier (Do) 19, but in 1937 Hermann Göring, com- mander of the Luftwaffe, canceled both. For a nation with limited aircraft manufacturing capabilities and requiring an air force to support the army, he determined that Germany needed medium bombers, not heavy bomb- ers. The death of Luftwaffe Chief of Staff Gen. Walther Wever in 1936 removed the last important German advocate of strategic bombing. Supporting this movement away from strategic bombing, trials in 1938 pitted the Heinkel (He) 111 and Do 17 bombers in level flight at 13,000 feet against Ju 87 Stuka dive bombers. The former dropped 2 percent of their bombs within a 330-foot circle, the latter 25 percent within a 165- foot c