ent of incendiary bombs landing within 2,000 feet of the assigned point of impact. These were area bombing weapons, however, and considering the volatility of their targets, close was good enough.27 Despite the success of the area bombing campaign, the Army Air Forces continued to pursue precision. Four groups of Superfortresses of the 315th Wing carried AN/APQ-7 Eagle radar sets for precision radar bombing from above 30,000 feet. The higher frequency provided by the 18-foot airfoil-shaped antenna carried beneath the aircraft gave a clearer represen- tation of ground features. The 315th used Eagle for attacks on oil targets, selected as choke-points because of guidance from the Strategic Bombing Survey in Germany. Electronically synchronized with the Norden bomb- sight, the Eagle was expected by developers to achieve near-visual accu- racy. The Norden, without the visual input of a human bombardier, calcu- lated the correct bomb-release time. With 1,095 sorties, the 315th averaged 13.5 percent of its bombs within 1,000 feet of the aiming point (see Table 11.3). By August 1945 Twentieth Air Force and air-power advocates were in trouble. Ten months of pounding, including the destruction of its largest  202 Chapter 11 203 Japan's Highly Inflammable Cities cities, had not knocked Japan out of the war. Wanting to avoid a ground invasion of the Japanese home islands, air planners turned to a solution that represented a bankruptcy of their strategy-more of the same, but with bigger bombs. On August 6 the United States sent the Enola Gay to Hiroshima, where bombardier Maj. Thomas W. Ferebee dropped the ultimate area weapon.28 Ironically the aiming point that day was the Aioi Bridge over the Ota River, consistent with the doctrine of daylight preci- sion strategic bombing. The Interim Committee, assigned the responsibil- ity of planning for this new weapon, had recommended that it be aimed at a Japanese "war plant surrounded by workers' homes." The "Little Boy" atomic fissio