f an enemy's industries because every industrial economy had certain choke- points, the destruction of which would cause the economic system, and therefore the nation, to break down. These critical industries produced materials needed by most other industries. Wilson contributed this theory of "industrial fabric,"9 which came "out of nowhere," whereby "future wars for survival would be between industrial nations; continuation of the war would depend upon maintaining intact a closely-knit and interdependent industrial fabric." Wilson viewed precision bombing as "an instrument which could cause collapse of this industrial fabric by depriving the web of certain essential elements-as few as three main systems such as transpor-  92 Chapter 5 93 Air Corps Adopts Bombing Strategy tation, electrical power and steel manufacture would suffice." He devel- oped the phrase "industrial fabric" to identify the interrelationship and interdependency between components of a nation's industrial capabilities. An example would be the importance of oil to a mobile society dependent on the internal combustion engine, or of antifriction bearings to an indus- trial society.10 The Great Depression had a significant influence on ACTS thinking. It revealed the world's great industrial economies vulnerable to the col- lapse of a few key industries. Everyday newspapers carried reports of the ripple effect, as plant closings in one industry seemed to lead to closings in another industry. If the collapse of a paper stock market could devastate an economy as strong as the American economy, what would well-placed bombs and the physical destruction of key industries accomplish? In a more direct sense the Depression also forced ACTS planners toward win- ning wars with the greatest economy of forces because of declining budg- etary support. Attacks on industries promised results with limited efforts, especially if launched with precision. Political factors encouraged them to avoid attacks on cities, bu