ation of ground speed-eliminating human involvement and human errors in the timing procedure. In combat, under fire, bombardiers using the timing technique tended to rush the timing process, resulting in inaccurate ground-speed determination. In the synchronous technique, once the bombardier had synchronized the bombsight, no further human action was necessary. The bombsight, not subject to the errors and incon- sistencies of human involvement, controlled the bombing process.2 Georges Estoppey, the Sperry Gyroscope Company, and the General Electric Company were experimenting with synchronous bombsighting, but as of 1929 no one had tested it in actual bombing. Georges Estoppey  70 Chapter 4 71 Norden Bombsight and Precision Bombing Doctrine filed for a patent on his synchronous D-7 bombsight on January 7, 1925, but did not complete his design until 1932. Mortimer F. Bates, an em- ployee of the Sperry Gyroscope Company, filed for a patent on his syn- chronous C-4 bombsight on June 1, 1926, but it, too, was not ready until 1932. Where Estoppey's device required the bombardier to crank the mechanism by hand, Bates's device used a motor to rotate a mirror or prism that synchronized the movement of the target with the movement of the aircraft. General Electric's Mark XIII never reached the operational level before cancellation in 1931.3 Carl Norden again retreated to his mother's home in Zurich in 1928, returning to New York in May 1930. Six months later, he presented an experimental model of his synchronous Mark XV to BuOrd's Entwistle at Norden's 80 Lafayette Street plant. The sight automatically provided the true air speed, ground speed, wind speed, wind direction, and angle of drift. So precise had Norden made it that the sight's complex gearing auto- matically compensated for forces such as the earth's rotation during the seconds a bomb was in flight. The bombardier adjusted the speed of a mo- tor that moved the telescope to synchronize the speed of the target moving