mbardier's eye socket and by harsh glare from the sun. B. F. Goodrich of Akron, Ohio, manufactured a soft "free resisting" neoprene eyepiece and various firms produced treated optics to reduce glare.58 The last models of the Norden bombsight, the M-9, M-9A, and M-9B, included increased trail (M-9A) and disc speed (M-9B) for bombing up to 50,000 feet and over 400 MPH, and a "trail spotting device which permits the dropping of bombs 30 mils short of or over the target." The M-9 was the only Norden bombsight designed primarily by non-Norden sources. Continued advances in technology caused the Army to ask in July 1941 for increased performance in a new Norden. Norden and the Navy claimed to be too busy with other projects "to consider any additional developments of the Mark 15 bombsight at this time." Using its own production facili- ties, the Army deleted the AES and incorporated an external X-1 reflex sight for the M-9B, manufactured by the W. L. Maxon Corporation of New York, to allow quick approaches and facilitate target acquisition at high altitudes. Coated optics improved bombing under low light condi- tions. The reflex optics involved adding an uncovered, movable plate glass reflector. A light bulb projected a reticle for sighting on this glass, tilted by the range mechanism of the bombsight in the same manner as the prism of the standard bombsight.59 Combined with several flight instruments, the Norden bombsight cre- ated the world's most accurate bombing system. Especially critical to its success were the intervalometer and salvo switch. The intervalometer was a device for achieving train bombing, the release of bombs at precise inter- vals with a single sighting operation. Bombardiers used intervalometers against area targets and "against precision targets to obtain a higher proba- bility of getting a hit on a single attack." In operation the intervalometer was a simple electrical timer that opened the bomb shackles at timed inter- vals. The standard interval