rs, with strong traditions of competition; of open government "of the people, by the people, for the people"; and of soldiers in service to the nation. By 1939 this nation led the world in bombsight development, the product of a government contract not open to competi-  134 Chapter 7 8 tive bidding, behind a wall of official secrecy designed in part to protect the patent rights of its developer, from the fertile mind of a Dutch citizen. In 1941 this nation went to war with a bombsight program under the di- rection of a department of the U.S. government not operating in the best interests of the United States, for another department of the U.S. govern- ment not acting in the best interests of the United States. The history of the bombsight/SBAE development program in the United States between the two world wars was fraught with secrecy, interservice rivalry, waste, and self-serving motives that spoke poorly of the officers and men assigned the responsibility of administering it. Procurement for War T he Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor laid bare America's lack of preparation for the mass production of bombsights. Eleven days later the Army Air Forces notified the Navy of its new bomb- sight requirements. According to Navy production estimates there would be a cumulative shortage of over 3,000 bombsights for the Army Air Forces by June 1943 (see Table 8.1). The lack of that 50-pound assemblage of screws, bolts, gears, springs, and assorted parts threatened to derail the Army Air Forces's strategy for winning World War II. For the want of a nail . . . Assistant Chief of the Materiel Division Brig. Gen. George C. Kenney did not mince words: "It is believed that continuance of the present Army- Navy policy relative to the manufacture of bombsights by the C. L. Nor- den Company is injurious to the interests of National Defense." As evi- dence of Navy-Norden negligence, he cited the Air Corps' request for price quotations on 319 bombsights submitted on January 30, 1939. The