e of declining budg- etary support. Attacks on industries promised results with limited efforts, especially if launched with precision. Political factors encouraged them to avoid attacks on cities, but economy of force required it. At this time, the Air Corps was struggling for identity and fighting for a military role. The only part of war the Corps could claim as its own, free from connection to the other military branches, was strategic bombing. Donald Wilson said the "Air Corps was ... really struggling for an excuse for existence." He discovered that 75 percent of American industry was located in the Maine-Chicago-St. Louis-Norfolk rectangle. Such a con- centration was vulnerable to long-range bombers with accurate bomb- sights. The spark for Wilson came from reading that floods had washed out two railroad bridges and that one had to be repaired before repair equipment could be brought to the second. Much of this was what Wilson called "guess work," because the ACTS had no means for testing these ideas.11 Key to convincing others of the correctness of his theory was flood damage on St. Patrick's Day, 1936, to a Pittsburgh factory. Water delayed aircraft production throughout the United States because the factory pro- duced a spring necessary to the manufacture of controllable pitch propel- lers. Attacks on such critical choke-points in an enemy's industrial fabric would eliminate its war-making capabilities without requiring the destruc- tion of every enemy industry or of an enemy's civilians. In Wilson's words, "This industrial fabric was the thing that could bring about defeat of an enemy not because of lack of morale or killing people, but that they would be removing the capability of conducting military operations."12 The 1931 ACTS texts "Bombardment Aviation" and "The Air Force" were the last before Walker and Wilson's influence became dominant. "Bombardment Aviation" identified the French and German night strate- gic bombardment of World War I as generall