at the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) had justified high-altitude bomb- ing for the U.S. Army Air Corps. His conclusions created the potential for long-range missions by large bomber aircraft able to escape defensive fire by flying at high altitude, exposing the enemy to bombing attack. Walker established how bombs would be dropped, but left the question of targets to another generation of ACTS officers. William C. Sherman, an instructor at the Air Service Tactical School in the early 1920s, began the process in his 1926 book Air Warfare, identi- 89  90 Chapter 5 91 Air Corps Adopts Bombing Strategy fying industry as the proper target of aerial warfare.2 He argued that an air force need not destroy all industry to be successful. "Industry consists rather of a complex system of interlocking factories, each of which makes only its allotted part of the whole." In launching an air attack, Sherman believed it "necessary to destroy certain elements of the industry only, in order to cripple the whole." He also argued, inconsistently, that nations won wars by destroying an enemy's "belief in ultimate victory and its will to win," by attacking large population centers, supply systems, fortifica- tions, and seacraft. Air Warfare did not attract great interest because the technology of bombing was not yet sufficiently advanced. The controversy and publicity surrounding Billy Mitchell also obscured Sherman's message.3 Other instructors helped make the ACTS the breeding ground for the evolving doctrine of daylight precision strategic bombing. They contrib- uted an analysis of the best targets for the high-altitude bombs of Kenneth Walker, based on little practical experience. ACTS instructors developed the doctrine of precision bombing without knowledge of the Norden bombsight, assuming "that if the advantages of precision bombing could be established in theory, American ingenuity and inventiveness would pro- vide the means for making such bombing possible in practice." Lauren