Army usage, releasing the bomb or bombs just prior to recovery from the dive. Drift angle Difference between the longitudinal axis of an airplane or heading and the actual track the aircraft followed on the ground. Dropping angle The angle between a vertical line from an aircraft's bombsight and the line of sight at the point of bomb release. Fuze Mechanical detonating device for setting off the bursting charge of a bomb. Delayed fuzes allowed penetration of the bomb before explosion to pro- duce a greater mining and tamping effect. GBA (Glide Bombing Attachment) Modification of Norden bombsight to allow bomb-aiming while in a glide or climb. Glide bombing Descending from higher altitude horizontal flight to lower alti- tude at an angle between 40 and 50 degrees from the horizontal in Navy usage and less than 30 degrees from the horizontal in Army usage, releasing the bomb or bombs just prior to recovery from the glide. Gross error Bombing errors of greater than 3,000 feet, not considered in Army Air Forces's accuracy calculations. Ground speed Velocity of an aircraft relative to ground. Ground track Track of an aircraft on the ground. Gyroscope Spinning flywheel revolving around an axis mounted to be free to rotate about one or both of two axes perpendicular to each other and to the axis of spin with a tendency to hold a fixed position in space. Gyrostabilizer Gyroscope-stabilized device for maintaining level flight. Horizontal bombing Releasing bomb or bombs in level, horizontal flight. Industrial fabric The interrelationship and interdependency between compo- nents of a nation's industries. Initial point Geographic point located approximately five minutes from a tar- get to provide an exact orientation for the bombing run. Intervalometer An electromechanical device for dropping two or more bombs in succession to achieve a predetermined pattern of explosions on the ground. See Train bombing. M-series bombsights Army designation for Norden synchronous bombsights, s