le thinking about strategic bombing, airmen still had to heed the Army's official doctrine of close air support in the 1920s. Training Regula- tion 440-15 of 1926 identified close air support and the destruction of the enemy's armed forces as the primary responsibility of the Army's air force, but envisioned bombing attacks on targets beyond the battlefield as con- tributing to victory by damaging enemy morale. These included troop concentrations away from the battlefield; efforts to "hamper the manufac- turing of war materiel"; "industrial centers, especially those devoted to the manufacture of war materiel"; and "attacks on centers of population" to "weaken the morale of the enemy people." The laws of war prohibited the latter, but the Air Service foresaw the need for such bombing in reprisal, while doubting the effect on morale. The Morrow Board was more certain: "Man can not make a machine stronger than the spirit of man."42 The Air Service's officer training school "Bombardment" text saw value The Air Corps Adopts a Bombing Strategy for World War II n the 1930s U.S. Army airmen prepared to look beyond mere tactical uses for the airplane. They began to see air power for what it could do to win wars independent of conventional ground and sea forces. Through a lawn-watering analogy, tactical air power would provide close air support at the sprinkler and interdiction at the hose. Strategic air power would strike at the spigot. Antoine Henri Jomini had issued prin- ciples of war in the nineteenth century based on lines of communication and trade,1 but these American airmen aimed to go beyond Jomini to strike directly at the sources of these lines of communication and trade-if their bombs hit the targets. 1st Lt. Kenneth N. Walker's work at the 2nd Bombardment Group and at the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) had justified high-altitude bomb- ing for the U.S. Army Air Corps. His conclusions created the potential for long-range missions by large bomber aircraft able t