le damage to the bridge. Delay-fuzed bombs and static charges buried in the sand near bridge beams "completely destroyed" them and caused spans to fall. Sur- face blasts shattered the concrete surfaces of the supporting beams, but tamped bombs completely shattered the girders, exposing and bending the reinforcing bars. A 2,000-pound bomb, for example, displaced 123/4 times more dirt if a delayed fuze permitted tamping than if an instantaneous fuze gave a surface detonation.52 These tests proved bombs gave an extremely localized "shattering ef- fect," but the "lifting effect" resulting from the expansion of gases after detonation caused the greatest damage. Nothing could enhance the for- mer, but tamping by burying the bomb in the earth increased the latter by a factor of four and a half times. Walker argued that bombs dropped from low altitude carried insufficient inertia to bury themselves. High-altitude releases were essential. Tests at Aberdeen revealed that buildings were also "best destroyed by mined charges." Tests against armor plate showed that "even a moderate degree of penetration of the target before explosion will produce a considerably greater demolition effect"-gained only from bombs dropped from a great height. The increased destructive  88 Chapter 4 force gained by the bombs from their velocity added to the effect. Even instantaneous-fuzed bombs did greater damage when the force of their impact was added to their explosive force.53 Walker's 1931 ACTS pamphlet, "Bombardment Aviation," concluded that "bombardment missions are carried out at high altitudes, to reduce the possibilities of interception by hostile pursuit and the effectiveness of anti-aircraft gun fire" and to increase the explosive effect of the bombs. Walker's conclusions had justified the value of high-altitude bombing, but high-altitude bombing was inherently inaccurate. His logic could not overcome the obstacle of bombing accuracy not yet achieved by Air Corps bombsights. The Norden-a