ojects during World War II, limiting himself to brief observations and to setting ground rules. His ground rules, however, became laws once uttered. One such law that caused difficulties for most of the company's wartime projects was "There shall be no AC motors used!" Norden always insisted that his products run on direct current, not alternating current. Unfortunately the Army Air Forces made a transformation during the war from direct current to alternating current. Norden's dictum forced his engineers to use relays and potentiometers rather than synchros and arbitrarily delayed the transition of Norden bombsights and equipments from mechanical to electronic en- gineering.17 This rough and exacting exterior, however, clashed dramatically with his inner self: "always religious, but never a churchgoer" and puritanical. He opposed established churches, especially the Catholic Church. Popes, he believed, belonged in the bottom level of Hell. Norden hated for any- one to speak of his "inventions," believing that only God could be respon- sible for inventions. Norden's achievements were "designs." He ate mostly steaks, drank great quantities of coffee, and lived comfortably. A devotee of the Christian theologian Emanuel Swedenborg, Norden committed himself to "being of use." His Swedenborgian Christianity allowed him to have all these characteristics, while being dedicated to charity and compas- sion for the disadvantaged. He despised taxes, preferring instead to give taxable profits to his employees as annual bonuses. This philosophy left no room for self-aggrandizement. Norden read Dickens avidly for revelations on the lives of the disadvantaged and Thoreau for the discussion of the simple life. In his will Norden left one-third of his wealth to the Swe- denborgian Society to finance the publication of books. Norden's genius expressed itself in the simple and systematic way in which he worked. He "liked always to start with a blank sheet of paper rather than first as