ient to meet minimum needs. Arnold, tired of Navy obstruction, presented the issue to the Joint Aircraft Committee. One week later BuOrd requested that the committee stop its consideration of the matter, promising to expand production and increase allocations to the Army Air Forces. In Arnold's view, correct as it turned out, the Navy was not using the Norden bombsight and yet was gobbling up a major share of production. Twenty percent of these ended up on naval depot shelves as spares while Army Air Forces bombers flew into combat with lesser bombsights. A Navy reliant on dive bombing was keeping 54 percent of the bombsights designed for horizontal bombing, leaving Ar- nold with only half an air force (see Table 8.3).13 Arnold went back to the Joint Aircraft Committee in September 1943, intent on demanding that the Army Air Forces take over all M-series bombsight production. He backed off only on the advice of his top pro- curement man, Maj. Gen. Oliver P. Echols, who told him that legal and personnel problems would probably delay production. Before the Joint Aircraft Committee could take action, the Navy again promised increased production and allocations to the Army.14 Plant expansion promised an adequate supply in the future, but produc- tion bottlenecks dimmed short-term prospects. A shortage of machine tools and difficulty with Norden specifications kept Lukas-Harold, Victor, Cardanic, Remington Rand, and Burroughs from getting into production on time. In early 1942 optical lenses were in short supply. In early 1943 a shortage of precision antifriction ball bearings froze assembly lines.15 To allow mass production, Barth purchased more ball bearings than needed, to be picked through to find the right fit, rather than fine-machining and hand-polishing each ball bearing to insure the right fit, as in the 1930s. This simple change in procedure eliminated a time-consuming step and was critical to meeting the Army Air Forces's growing appetite for Norden  142 Chapt