n they appeared in 1940. The mission of the Air Corps was to defend the United States and its overseas possessions, support the Army, and be prepared to deal with "other situations" that might arise. The offensive use of air power was in counterair operations and in support of ground and naval forces, including attacks on supply and repair depots. Committed to tactical twin-engine bombers, the Army's General Staff restricted the Air Corps to thirteen new B-17s for 1939.31 Working against official doctrine, airmen still believed strategic bomb- ing would work. The Air Corps Board changed its views in 1940, assigning the Air Corps the primary mission of hemispheric defense and a secondary mission of "offensive strategic bombardment." Ted Barth, ever the salesman/promoter, expressed the confidence of many in the Norden's capabilities on the eve of America's entry into World War II: "We do not regard a fifteen foot square ... as being a very difficult target to hit from an altitude of 30,000 feet, provided the new Army M-4 Bombsight, to- gether with the Stabilized Bombing Approach Equipment [automatic bombing pilot], is used."32 It was equivalent, in the idiom of the day, to dropping a bomb into a pickle barrel from six miles up. This feeling that daylight precision strategic bombing would work car- ried over to Pres. Franklin Roosevelt. After Hitler used the threat of his air force to bully Britain and France into consenting to his takeover of the Sudetenland and eventually all of Czechoslovakia at Munich in September 1938,33 Roosevelt ordered the capacity of America's aircraft industry ex- panded to 10,000 per year. The Army's General Staff refused to alter its commitment to close air support, allowing the Air Corps to order only 206 B-17s. Two years later, with the German invasion of France, Roosevelt raised the expansion to 50,000 per year, sweeping away the General Staff's attempts to limit heavy bomber production. The president had decided to allow the Air Corps t