urvived." BuAer questioned the continuation of the high-altitude horizontal bombing tech- nique when "the average low cloud form ceiling throughout the world is approximately 4,000 feet." The commander-in-chief of the U.S. Fleet de- termined that even "at 10,000 feet [bombers] would have little chance  108 Chapter 6 109 Navy Adopts Dive Bombing against the anti-aircraft fire." Torpedo bomber units attempted to perfect night attacks to avoid ship defensive fire, but without success.9 In contrast, dive bombing continued to prove its merit. Adm. Joseph M. Reeves, commander-in-chief of the U.S. Fleet, wrote, "These dive bombers, equipped with 1,000-pound bombs, are probably the most deadly air weapon thus far devised." In exercises late in 1933, two squad- rons made mock dive-bombing attacks on the USS Lexington and Saratoga, scoring sixty-eight hits according to umpires. Powerful opponents of air power still controlled the exercises, because the umpires ruled that sixty- eight hits failed to sink either carrier. Such rulings could not obscure the obvious-the Navy was moving away from Norden-equipped horizontal bombers in favor of dive bombers. Against the battle cruiser division, bombers diving out of the sun from 12,000 feet met what observers de- scribed as ineffective antiaircraft fire and pressed their attacks without op- position. Reeves judged associated torpedo bomber attacks to be ineffec- tive: "Probably in all naval warfare there is nothing more difficult to deliver than a successful torpedo attack."10 In 1936 Reeves itemized the duties of carrier-borne aircraft,11 limiting torpedo attack to "just prior to the main engagement," and assigning dive bombers the primary responsibility for the destruction of enemy capital ships. Each carrier's contingent would include four aircraft squadrons: one squadron of VBFs (fighters with dive-bombing capability), two squadrons of VSBs (scout bombers with dive-bombing capability), and one squadron of VBs (dive bombers) or VT