2d Lt. Lawson H. Mc. Sanderson (center) at Bolling Field upon their return from a flight from Washington, D.C., to Santo Domingo in April 1921. In 1919 Sanderson started the U.S. Navy in the direction of dive bombing using "large canvas mail sacks" to drop bombs on Haitian bandits. (Source: National Air and Space Museum.) Sperry Mark I Aiming Angle Sight for dive bombing, canceled by Adm. John H. Towers because it was difficult to use and represented only a "slight improvement" over eye-balling. (Source: Sperry Gyroscope Company Collection, Hagley Museum and Library.) Douglas TBD Devastator torpedo bomber from USS Enterprise dropping Mark XIII torpedo, October 20, 1941. The Mark XIII forced the TBD to fly at 80 feet, 80 knots, and within 1,000 yards of the target at the point of release, leading to nearly suicidal attacks at Midway. (Source: National Archives.)  99 Air Corps Adopts Bombing Strategy Douglas SBD Dauntless dive bombers attack the Japanese cruiser Mikuma at Midway on June 6, 1942. (Source: National Archives.) America's bombsights for World War II: (left) the Norden Mark 15/M-series (nearly 90,000 produced); (center) the Sperry S-1 (over 5,000 produced); (right) the Estoppey D-8 (over 10,000 produced). (Source: USAF Historical Research Agency.) racy. Glide bombing meant losing altitude during bombing to increase speed and complicate the task of defending ground fire. Low-altitude stra- tegic bombing was below 5,000 feet. By 1940 it was too late. The Norden bombsight could not be synchronized at high speeds and low altitudes and did not allow range synchronization in glide bombing because of con- stantly changing altitude and angle of glide data. Tests showed that from 13,000 feet, the bombing error was 2.2 times greater in glide bombing than in level bombing. High-altitude daylight precision strategic bombing may not have been that accurate, but it was all the Air Corps had.29 One spectacular success at the expense of the Navy restored Air Corps faith in