o improve bombing accuracy.47 Sperry's device, weighing 50 pounds, was mounted beneath the copilot's seat, with 70 pounds of associated equipment mounted in the fuselage. Built around two gyroscopes48 spinning at 15,000 revolutions per minute, one mounted vertically and one horizontally, any movement away from the gyroscopes' fixed planes made contact between the housing of the gy- roscopes and electromagnets. The resulting electric current powered magnetic-clutch servomotors that engaged bevel gears mounted on a re- volving shaft connected to a wind-driven propeller. The bevel gears ro- tated another shaft and pulley either clockwise or counterclockwise, pull- ing long cables linked directly to the aircraft's control surfaces: the rudder and ailerons for directional control (yaw), the elevators for up and down control (pitch), and the ailerons for lateral control (roll). Twelve-volt power came from a wind-driven generator.49 Proclamations of success were perhaps premature, as service testing of the Sperry automatic pilot showed it functioned well, but required "very frequent" adjustments and suffered from manufacturing defects. The main problem was with the long cables used to connect the central shafts to the control surfaces. Exposed to rapid drops in temperature at high altitudes, they constantly lost tension, making for increasingly "mushy" controls. Another problem was with irregular electrical production coming from the air-driven generators.50 Sperry focused on two improvements for the follow-up Army A-2 model automatic pilot. The major switch was from electrical controls and motors to pneumatic controls of hydraulic pistons for greater reliability and reduced maintenance. Hydraulics also gave a softer ride than the quicker responding mechanical linkages. An air pump drew air through two ports in the casing of the gyroscopes across vanes attacked to the gyro- scope wheel, spinning it at high speeds. Deviation from level flight shut off the air flow through o