ss and to build a stabilized base. Nor- den would work as a consulting engineer to the Witteman-Lewis Aircraft Company, which would build the bombsight Norden would design. Desig- nated the Pilot Directing Bombsight Mark III-A (Mark IV Army designa- tion), Norden would be paid on a cost plus percentage-of-cost basis.13 The first tests of the Mark III-A in October 1921 revealed basic diffi- culties. From 4,000 feet the Navy had only eleven hits out of 103 bombs dropped on the anchored USS Indiana and the USS Smith. Tests against the USS Iowa traveling at six knots on a straight course upwind achieved only two hits out of eighty-five bombs dropped. The testing authority con- cluded that the Army Estoppey D-1 was the "best sight available," simpler in design, with better stabilization (by pendulum) than the Norden- Wimperis hybrid design. Norden's first attempt to improve bombing accu- racy was a failure.14 Carl Lukas Norden fit nearly all of the stereotypes associated with ge- nius, though Norden preferred to think of himself as a person who worked harder than anyone else.15 Sixteen-hour days were typical. Self-centered, impatient, domineering, driven, abrasive, and perfectionist, he was also a man of the highest ethical standards. Born on April 23, 1880, in Semarang, Java, Norden displayed as a youth the qualities that so typified his life. Although the middle child in a fatherless family of five children, Carl was his mother's choice to inspect the house and the surrounding grounds for trespassers before retiring at night. His strong will, absolute bravery, and trustworthiness made him the obvious preference for this task. His favored career was that of an artist, but his older brother's decision to pursue the life of a starving artist forced Carl to seek a money-making profession for the good of the family. He enrolled at the Federal Polytechnic Institute in Zurich, Switzerland, graduating in 1904 as a mechanical engineer. While at the institute he met a young Russ