blems. From 1934 to 1936 Henry H. Arnold and his 7th Bomb Group and later his 1st Wing put this technology and high-altitude bombing to the test with Norden-equipped Keystone, B-9, and B-10 bombers at California's Muroc Dry Lake Bed. The speeds of the new bombers blinded airmen to difficulties with accuracy. The B-9 was the first of several bombers that could outrun Air Corps fighters. In Arnold's mind, enemy defenses could not stop bombers, reinforcing the conviction that strategic bombing was possible. In 1932 England's Stanley Baldwin said "the bomber will always get through." A year later the assis- tant chief of the Air Corps, Brig. Gen. Oscar Westover, echoed Baldwin: "No known agency can frustrate the accomplishment of a bombardment mission." He was wrong-inaccuracy still stood between the Army Air Corps and its doctrine of daylight precision strategic bombing, despite the Norden bombsight.23 Arnold did make one concession to bombing inaccuracy and the power of defensive weapons. He realized that pinpoint "pickle barrel" accuracy would be difficult at the high altitudes and speeds enemy defenses would force his bombers to fly. To compensate, the future Air Corps' chief orga- nized his forces into forty-bomber formations. All would drop their bombs in a single salvo, overcoming inaccuracy with overwhelming firepower. Tests against outlines of battleships drawn in the desert proved the effi- ciency of this "shotgun" approach. With considerable practice Arnold's crews achieved improved accuracy, though without having to confront the heavy cloud covers that would later prove to be the Norden bombsight's greatest enemy.24 An air leader who did have to face weather problems was Robert Olds, commander of the 2nd Bombardment Group at Langley Field, previously of the ACTS. His group was the first to fly the B-17 Flying Fortress equipped with the Norden bombsight. Olds's group experimented with blind bombing techniques to overcome the detrimental effect of clouds on th