tocracy could still provide the kind of charismatic leadership which was their traditional raison d'être, other qualities were increasingly demanded of professional soldiers-an understanding of technology and first-rate administrative ability not least among them. A new kind of professionalism began to develop among regular officers: without ceasing to be heroic leaders they had to learn, in addition, to be managers and engineers. This change of style was accomplished without too much difficulty in France, where the officer corps had been ever  108 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE NATIONS since the Revolution a largely middle-class institution. In the Habsburg Empire the aristocracy had always been flexible and eclectic. In Russia there was never any question of the nobility finding enough officers for the army, which was very largely led by the middle- and lower-middle-class products of cadet training schools known as junkers. But in Germany the situation was far less flexible. There, as we have seen, the officer-corps and the monarchy stood in a peculiarly intimate relationship of reciprocal loyalty : the officers swore allegiance to their War Lord and expected confirmation of their privileges in return. As the century entered its troubled middle years, the Prussian officer corps saw itself as the defenders not only of the monarchy against its external adversaries but of the social order against internal forces of disruption. Although they recognized the military necessity for the expansion of the army pressed on them by the General Staff, their leaders viewed with appre- hension a process which threatened to swamp their officers' messes with middle-class parvenus from liberal backgrounds, and to fill the ranks with young men infected by socialistic ideas. They need not have worried. The middle-class radicals of the 1820s and 3os who carried on the intellectual and political ferment of the Erhebungszeit were certainly revolutionary in 1848, and continued to