are until those systems had been destroyed. The manipulation of these needs in Germany, a society rendered particularly vulnerable by revolution and defeat, brought to power a régime whose impact on the international political system was to be as disruptive as that of Revolutionary France. Not only did it challenge the existing power-balance between the states of Europe: it denied the ideological consensus on which the entire international system was based. A comparable denial had of course already come from 119 Russia. There the Revolution of 1917 had brought to power a régime which, based on the doctrines of Karl Marx as modified by Lenin, considered itself in a state of perpetual war with the bourgeois world. But after the initial wars of intervention immediately consequent on the Revolution the Soviet Union settled down into a condition of suspicious co-existence with its neighbours to the west; who in their turn saw in Russia a danger to the internal stability of their régimes, through her manipulation of indigenous communist parties, rather than a serious military threat. The fear which obsessed the ruling classes of Europe between the wars was that of 'Bolshevism' at home rather than of Soviet aggression. It was strong enough to lead many among them to welcome Fascism as an ally against the threat from the Left and to blind them to the far more immediate danger which it posed to internal and international stability. Post-war Europe thus found itself tugged between three competing ideologies. In appearance 1918 had seen the triumph of nations who adhered to the principles of liberal democracy stemming from the Enlightenment, who proposed to use their victory to establish an international Rule of Law and to renounce war as an instrument of policy; ideas which had germinated and come to fruition during the nineteenth century in the peaceful and prosperous soil of Britain and North America. In practice the Great War, by destroying so much of the traditional frame