hole of continental Europe, even France, was in a state of simmering discontent, much of the credit must go to the patient, unspectacular blockade work of the Royal Navy which its earlier victories had made possible. In that year the Czar Alexander of Russia, who had brought his country into the system five years earlier at Tilsit, decided that the interruption to his trade in timber and grain with England was intolerable, and defiantly resumed commercial relations. Napoleon saw no alternative but to reduce him to obedience by force of arms. But there was another side to the picture. The British economy did not survive intact. War was no longer, as it had been a hundred years earlier, synonymous with trade and profit. The English merchants who captured the French colonial trade did well enough, but of far more importance now were the manufacturers whose cloth and metal-ware could not be so easily smuggled into a Europe where the market for them was still in any case limited. A crisis of glut in 1808 was temporarily alleviated by the opening of the markets of the Spanish and Portuguese Empires to British trade when Napoleon invaded the Iberian peninsula. Exports to South America rose from £8m in 1805 to nearly £ 20m in 1809, and a pattern of trade was established which was to last until the Second World War. But it was a mixed blessing. The feverish speculation led to a collapse of the market in 1810. At the same time the United States, retaliating against the British blockade of the continent, had boycotted British goods, and exports to Europe sank from £7.7m in 1810 to £1.5m in 1811. English warehouses were clogged with unsaleable goods, workers were laid off, rioting and machine-breaking began, and to crown the woes of the British, a series of bad harvests sent the price of bread soaring. The British Army was called out to perform the task which, far more than any foreign wars, was to keep it 93 occupied for the next forty years: the suppression of the discontents