most notable in the Middle East where the British tried to maintain a presence, partly to preserve access to the increasingly important oil resources of the region and partly to deny it to Soviet influence. They rapidly abandoned control of Palestine where they were unable to resist a ruthless Jewish resistance movement backed by American finance and political sup- port; but they established a place d'armes on the Suez Canal, which was traditionally believed to be 'the lifeline' of the British Empire. When in 1956 a nationalist Egyptian government under Colonel Abdul Nasser reclaimed control of the Canal, the British, in association with the French but without 139 consulting the United States, launched an ill-starred invasion in an attempt to overthrow the Egyptian regime. The United States, viewing British colonialism in the region with as little favour as it did Soviet expansion, forced them to withdraw, and rapidly took their place as hegemons in the region. Thereafter the British attempted no comparable military adventures, with one bizarre exception. In 1982 a military government in Argentina invaded the British colony of the Falkland Islands, that lay only some 250 miles from their coast- line and to which the Argentinians had always laid claim. In spite of the enfeebled state of their naval forces the British launched an armada that traversed eight thousand miles of ocean and landed a force that reconquered the islands in twenty-four days. While the American government dithered-the staunch anti-communism of the Argentine government made the State Depart- ment regard it as a valuable ally-their Defense Department provided essential military support. It was a remarkable achievement but the effort involved was so exceptional and the circumstances so extraordinary that it seemed unlikely that the campaign could provide a model for any such future enterprises. In the Far East the British showed a more solid record of success. Burma, like India, they left to its ow