ant figure was Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington, a man who embodied all the serene certainties of the eighteenth century and carried them into the second half of the nineteenth. Wellington saw no need for change. He was a consummate master of eighteenth-century warfare, and the limited nature of the campaigns he was required to fight made it unnecessary for him to contemplate any other. A French general of the period was reported as saying that the British infantry were the best in the world, and it was a good thing there were so few of them. But it was precisely because there were so few of them that they were so good. If the British had had to create an army on a continental scale, they would have had to take the continental model very much more seriously; which would, in its turn, have had far-reaching implications for the structure of their own society. That they did not have to raise an army on a continental scale was due to the ascendancy established and maintained by the Royal Navy which was by the end of the eighteenth century a professional fighting force second to none in the world. This ascendancy had been challenged by the French through out the eighteenth century. The triumphs of the Royal Navy during the Seven Years War, 1756-63, had eliminated the French as colonial rivals in North America and India; but the French Navy learned from its mistakes and twenty years later, through sheer superior professional ability, was able to inflict on the British a series of defeats which compelled the latter to renounce their attempts to repress the revolt of their American colonies. But the Revolution destroyed the professional cadres on which the excellence of the French Navy depended, and revolutionary élan proved to be of limited effectiveness in the navigation of men-of-war. Both the command and the supply system of the French Navy disintegrated. As for the British, they reflected deeply on the faults which had led to their humiliations between 1778 and 178