s which all other mercenaries in Europe regarded as being beneath them. They could make them dig, and they could make them drill; both activities of enormous importance in increasing the power of the defensive. The importance of the first is self-evident. It was the creation  56 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE PROFESSIONALS and maintenance of continuous lines of entrenchments, together with the natural defences provided by waterways and the permanent fortifications built by Coehorn, that made the United Provinces so impregnable for so long. The second activity, drill, was significant mainly in relation to the growing importance of fire power on the battlefield. It was Prince Maurice of Orange who, at the end of the sixteenth century, first saw clearly that fire power was now the decisive element rather than shock: that the pike was there to protect the musket, not the other way round. It was thus necessary to devise both formations which would maximize fire power, and procedures to ensure its continuous and controlled delivery. Instead of the pike squares several thousand strong with 'sleeves' of protective shot which had become normal in the sixteenth century, Maurice adopted elongated formations of musketeers some ten deep, with pike formations interposed simply to protect them against charging cavalry; the muske- teers countermarching in their files, reloading as they did so, so that their front rank was always giving continuous fire. This development in the conduct of battle demanded a greatly heightened degree of control on the battlefield itself: control of movement, control of fire, above all (now that the troops were no longer huddled together in great masses but strung vulnerably out in line) self-control. For this drill was needed, and, more than drill, discipline. The concept of discipline has become so much a part of our idea of military life that it is hard for us to realize what a new phenomenon it was in European warfare in the seventeenth cen