carry out their task as an occupation-force in hostile territory, built the great castles which survive till our own time. But militarily speaking the Norman dynasty in England and their successors were hopelessly overstretched; not only keeping the native English in order and extending their frontiers into Scotland and Wales, but maintaining their own rights on the mainland of Europe. Obligatory service from tenants-in-chief-servitium debitum-formed the nucleus of Norman and, later, Angevin armies in the eleventh and twelfth centuries; but the sixty days of which it customarily consisted was never enough to assemble a force and get it over to fight on the Continent, let alone to reduce the rebellious Scottish and Welsh mountaineers to obedience. Feudalism, in short, was not enough. The kings of England had to improvise. They hired freelances from the continent. They expanded their own military households. They tightened up on feudal obligation by 'distraint of knighthood' and then permitted those liable for service to commute their obligations for cash payments with which to hire mercenaries. They made contracts-'indentures' -with their own vassals for the provision of forces against cash payment; and, especially for wars within the island itself, they II levied foot soldiers from among the local population by 'commission of array'. Foot soldiers; among them, archers, whose value had been shown in the guerilla campaigns with which Edward I had to contend in the Welsh mountains at the end of the thirteenth century. In such warfare the heavy cavalry of the feudal host was of little value on its own. These knights were trained to fight their own kind, and in so doing to sweep unprotected infantry from the open ground where their mounted opponents normally chose to give battle. But in Wales they came up against an adversary who was not a military aristocracy like themselves, nor a conquering tribe to be chased back to its own lands, but men defending their own mountain