- ancy over her adversaries. So in March 2003 United States forces invaded Iraq. Predictably they destroyed Saddam Hussein's army in a matter of days. The peoples of Western Europe had watched the events of 9-11 with horror and their leaders had immediately pledged their support to the United States. The fact that the conspirators had made their preparations in Germany showed the transnational nature of the conspiracy and its potential targets. But there was some reluctance to accept the American declaration of 'War on Terror'. In most of Western Europe the events of 11 September were seen as a monstrous escalation of the activities from which many of them had already suffered at the hands of their own terrorists, to be regarded as a crime to be dealt with by police and intelligence forces rather than a war to be waged by the military. They provided ready cooperation in tracing and apprehending terrorist suspects-too ready indeed, in the eyes of some of their own civil libertarians-and willingly supported the campaign in Afghanistan, ultimately with the commitment of their own armed forces. But about the Iraq campaign they were deeply sceptical. They doubted its legitimacy, its relevance to the problem of international terrorism, and its political wisdom. Britain loyally supported her ally, though at the cost of a huge split in domestic opinion, but her European neighbours, like most members of the United Nations, regarded the enterprise as ill-considered, and held aloof.  144 EPILOGUE Notes Events proved them right. As in Vietnam, the excellent intentions and technological supremacy of American armed forces WERE largely discounted by a cultural incompatibility that rapidly eroded their relations with the Iraqi population; and to this was now added massive political misjudgement. 'The Revolution in Military Affairs' may have enabled the Americans to win battles. but it was of limited value when it came to the conduet of wars that demanded political sensitivity as we