id so with the greatest urgency were the military planners in Berlin. The German General Staff had to plan to fight a two-front war, against both France and Russia. Their problems grew year by year as the development of the railway system in the Russian Empire after 1890 made it possible for the Russian Army to deploy more of its manpower in Europe. When Bismarck's policy of isolating France by remaining on good terms with both the Russian and the Austro- Hungarian Empires was abandoned by his successors, and France and Russia established their entente in 1891, the German General Staff regarded war as only a matter of time. Their problem was on which front to concentrate their forces first. A decisive victory on the pattern of Sedan seemed possible only in the restricted spaces of western Europe; but the French frontier was now so strongly fortified that any such decision there appeared out of the question. The solution proposed by the Chief of the German General Staff, Count Alfred von Schlieffen, is well-known : a wide outflanking move- ment through Belgium to take the French in the rear, trap them against their own defences and destroy them in a Schlacht ohne Morgen which would enable the bulk of the German Army to be transferred eastward to deal with the vaster but  106 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE NATIONS more slowly moving threat of the Russian armies. Schlieffen bequeathed this concept to his successors on his retirement in 1905, but the more they examined it the more difficult it appeared to execute. The logistical problems, though enor- mous, were not insoluble. The fundamental difficulty was to find adequate manpower, and it was necessary in 1912 to pass a new Army Law to increase the size of the German forces yet further. The French naturally responded in kind, by extending the period which their conscripts had to serve with the colours. But the French General Staff were less concerned than were the Germans over the strength of the defensive in