monies, its own music and dress and habits; that whole tedious but obsessive way of life known as 'soldiering' which has survived in the British army down to our own day. In their activities, either in war or in peace, the rest of the community took little interest, and was not encouraged to do so. Even in England, where popular support was as great as anywhere for wars, especially maritime wars, which en- riched the community and involved only a minute proportion of the population, Laurence Sterne could get as far as Paris on 73 his Sentimental Journey before anyone reminded him that, since Britain and France were at war, he ought to equip him- self with a passport. On the Continent commerce, travel, cultural and learned intercourse went on in wartime almost unhindered. The wars were the king's wars. The rôle of the good citizen was to pay his taxes, and sound political economy dictated that he should be left alone to make the money out of which to pay those taxes. He was required neither to partici- pate in making the decision out of which wars arose nor to take part in them once they broke out, unless prompted by a spirit of youthful adventure. These matters were arcana regni, the concern of the sovereign alone. It might be suggested that it was not the least achievement of European civilization to have reduced the wolf packs which had preyed on the defenceless peoples of Europe for so many centuries to the condition of trained and obedient gun dogs- almost, in some cases, performing poodles. Yet this very success bred a reaction. As the wealth of Europe developed, so did the prosperity and self-confidence of a bourgeoisie which regarded this military element in their societies, with its aristocratic officers and outcast soldiery, with a total lack of sympathy : at best as a group of specialists whose affairs were no concern of theirs, at worst as an object of derision and contempt. The men of the Enlightenment no longer accepted war as the necessary destiny of m