ry orders-the Templars, the Knights of St. John, the Teutonic Knights-were established in conscious imitation of the monastic foundations. The sword-belt and spurs set the knight apart as distinctively as the tonsure did the monk and the priest; and in the mythical figures of Parsifal and Galahad priest and knight became indistinguishable, equally dedicated, equally holy, the ideal to which medieval Christendom aspired. This remarkable blend of Germanic warrior and Latin sacerdos lay at the root of all medieval culture. The Church accepted and blessed the warrior class from the very beginning : since they were fighting to defend Christendom against the incursions of heathen Moslems, Magyars, and Norsemen, it could hardly do otherwise. Its members-bishops, abbots- happily assumed military obligations with the fiefs of land granted them by the kings they crowned, and seldom showed much reluctance about bearing arms so long as they did not actually shed blood: something seldom done by that useful weapon, the mace. At the same time they made attempts, increasingly successfully as the barbarian incursions ebbed, to bring the conduct of war and Christian morality into some kind of focus. Concepts of jus ad bellum and jus in bello had little relevance when the Norsemen were raging through the land like devouring flames, and churchmen found as much difficulty in applying them to Moslems who were themselves fanatically determined to convert or to extirpate the infidel wherever their swords could reach him. So in war against the pagan no holds were barred, and knights indeed could gain remission from their sins by waging it. In the twelfth century the Teutonic Knights were, under the auspices of the Church, to conduct against the Slavs and Wends in eastern Europe a crusade which was virtually a war of extermination. Within Christendom however the situation was, at least in principle, different. That Christians should fight one another was deplorable and the Church deplored it