ly. The burdens which this kind of warfare imposed on the civilian population were accepted without complaint. Immense war loans were raised. Women took the place of men in the factories and the fields. Civilians forfeited luxuries, submitted to increasingly severe rationing of necessities, tightened their belts as consumer goods disappeared from the shops. In the process fundamental changes took place in the belligerent societies themselves. Governments acquired control over new areas of social and economic life. Pressure for wider participa- tion in government increased and had very largely to be accepted. Trades unions had to be accepted as partners with governments and exacted a price-much as the aristocracy had two centuries earlier-in terms of recognition of privileges and status within society. War taxation levelled out the major inequalities of wealth inherent in the old order. If indeed the militarization of society was the deliberate contrivance of the old élites they made a very bad bargain, for it was to be the patriotic peoples of Europe, sacrificing everything in the search for impossible victories, which were to destroy them. Between 1914 and 1918 the dynastic states of Europe, whose ruling families and dominant aristocracies had survived for five  7 THE WARS OF THE TECHNOLOGISTS The Wars of the Technologists One may wonder how it came about that, twenty years after fighting the greatest war in their history, one in which they lost collectively some thirteen million dead, the nations of Europe in 1939 became involved in another conflict; one which was to inflict on their society a yet greater level of destruction and bring their pre-eminence in the world decisively to an end. How did it happen that this was the ironic consequence of what the victorious allies had determined should be a war to end wars? To answer this question we must get the First World War into proportion. In the last chapter we described how in the nineteenth century developments in