ce had virtually placed their entire military force on a stipendiary basis. Even the greatest of their vassals provided an agreed number of troops by 'indenture', or contract. And once one prince was able to maintain a force in the field throughout a whole campaigning season or even a succession of campaigns, his competitors had to do the same. The money might, as we have seen, come from 'scutage', payment in lieu of military service from vassals whose services were not required, or from taxes or grants from the Church. But for the most part it had to come from the proceeds of trade: either from dues over which the prince had complete control, or from loans advanced by merchants, or from specific grants-usually in return for services rendered or privileges granted-made by representa- tive bodies of the towns and other economically productive classes. Parliaments, Estates, assemblies representative of the non-military, non-noble sections of the community, began to figure largely in the capacity of the prince to make war. But sooner or later the money ran out or the war came to an end, and the soldiers (as one can now accurately call them) were left without employment. They had no estates to go back  WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY 18 THE WARS OF THE KNIGHTS to; often indeed they had no homes to go back to: their 'company' ('con pane', an organization providing them with subsistence as well as employment) was their only home. In Italy, where allegiances were hopelessly disrupted by the Wars of Investiture which spanned a multiplicity of small wars, and where cash was always readily available, these mercenary bands were active and independent by the thir- teenth century; sometimes providing straightforward military services to anyone willing to pay them, sometimes levying simple blackmail, of which more will be said in Chapter II. In France their activities reached an appalling peak a hundred years later. The Hundred Years War produced the greatest concentration yet seen of th