ed, war or no war. The capital investment was enormous. They required an infra- structure of dockyards, shipwrights, pilots, cartographers, ordnance experts-the nucleus in fact of a paid, permanent, professional service. It was hard enough for Samuel Pepys and Colbert to create such a force, and find the money to pay it, in the latter part of the seventeenth century. A hundred years earlier it had been virtually impossible. American silver did something to ease the task for Spain, but the effort bankrupted the Elizabethan government. When the Stuarts tried to restore  50 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE MERCHANTS the Royal Navy by reviving the tax of Ship Money, the result was constitutional catastrophe. What could be done to assert naval power when there were no resources to pay for it? All European princes has recourse to the same expedient: the issue of 'letters of marque', authorization to private vessels to distress the enemies of their sovereign and take prizes, out of which the sovereign would take his or her share of the proceeds. The privateer was thus in a way the maritime equivalent of the condottiere. But between the privateer equipped with letters of marque authorizing him to distress the enemies of his sovereign, and the buccaneer equipped only with guns who distressed anyone he could catch, the line was very thin indeed. And the latter abounded. In 1595 a Spanish official in the West Indies complained that 'for the last four years . . . corsairs are as numerous and assidu- ous as though these were ports in their own countries. . . . Not a ship coming up from outside escapes them, nor does any which leaves the harbour get past them.'12 But piracy was no less rife in the Indian Ocean, where large Dutch or Portuguese merchantmen with their priceless cargoes were frequently hijacked; and the North Sea and the Channel, where free- booters operated out of Dunkirk almost unhindered; while the pirates of the Barbary coast exercised a reign of terror no