m which made war a matter of scientific calculation, administrative planning, and professional exper- tise. After 1871 the Prussian institutions-conscription, stra- tegic railways, mobilization techniques, above all the General Staff-were copied by every state in continental Europe. Thirty years later, after disastrous experiences in South Africa and Cuba, Britain and the United States adapted the model to their own needs. Side by side with this administrative revolution went the technological. We have seen how slowly, between the fifteenth and the nineteenth centuries, weapons-systems developed within the stable economic framework of European society; the gradual, piecemeal fashion in which cannon became more mobile and slightly more accurate, the adaptations which converted matchlock into flintlock, pike into bayonet, without  102 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE NATIONS substantially increasing the range of fire or transcending the limits on mobility imposed by human and equine capabilities. But between 1815 and 1914, as the revolution in communica- tions was to transform strategy, so the revolution in weapons technology was to transform tactics. Already by 1870 firearms had undergone one transformation. First came rifling-the spiral grooves on the inside of the barrel which increased both range and accuracy by a factor of about five. The principle had been applied to sporting guns since the sixteenth century and rifles had been used by light infantry specialists since the eighteenth. But loading them at the muzzle made for a very slow rate of fire; they were generally regarded as weapons of precision too delicate for general issue, and sheer volume of fire was considered more important in the infantry line than either range or accuracy. But in the 1840s rifled muskets were developed whose bullets could be dropped down the barrel and on being fired expanded to fit the grooves, giving a rate of fire similar to that of the old musket with added range and acc