ivateer' and break in on monopolies established by author- ity of the Pope of Rome. The French Wars of Religion, the Revolt of the Low Countries, the memory of Marian persecu- tions in England provided incentive enough for Huguenot, Dutch, or English gentry to fit out vessels which might or might not be equipped with valid 'letters of marque' but were certainly equipped with guns, and set out either to smuggle 43 goods in and out of the Spanish Indies or quite simply to cap- ture Spanish ships. Among west-country families in England, as Dr Andrews so nicely put it, 'Protestantism, patriotism and plunder became virtually synonymous';2 and the same could have been said of the lesser nobility of Zeeland and the hober- aux round La Rochelle. Solid merchants, respectable courtiers, the Queen of England herself were prepared to join in what became, in the last third of the sixteenth century, an immensely profitable bonanza. And when in 1580 the crown of Portugal became united with that of Spain, the whole of the Portuguese Empire from West Africa to the East Indies became fair game as well. Fair game, in the first instance, to the Dutch. For the United Provinces, fighting an increasingly desperate battle for indepen- dence against the armies of Spain, the sprawling, badly de- fended Portuguese possessions provided a literally golden opportunity. Capturing the trade of the Portuguese Empire not only deprived the Spanish crown of a much-needed source of wealth but furnished the Netherlands with funds for carrying on their own war. Their early trading expeditions to the East Indies in the 1590s paid dividends of up to 400 per cent. In 1602 they founded the East India Company which gradually extruded the Portuguese from all but a handful of their trading posts in the Indian Ocean and the East Indies. For the Dutch merchant adventurers, indeed, the twelve-year truce with Spain between 1609 and 1621 was an unwelcome interruption to a course of unbroken predatory success. The mo