ted horseman to scout and skirmish for him; and one or two foot soldiers to stand guard. So the single knight expanded into a 'lance', a team of half a dozen men, like the crew of some enormous battle tank. The whole apparatus came very expensive indeed. The management of these heavy weapons and horses in armoured combat was no matter for amateurs; nor could expensive forces of this kind be easily found from a subsistence economy. By the tenth century war was becoming a business for wealthy specialists who trained for it from early youth. How could they be provided with the economic security to enable them to devote themselves to their expertise? Primarily by grants of land, in return for which they pledged service and 'allegiance' to their lord. This grant was the 'fief' that lay at the basis of feudal society : a threefold relationship of military specialization, land tenure, and personal obligation, whereby * It is curious that whereas the French word chevalier and German Ritter translate the meaning exactly, the English have simply a word which in modern German (Knecht) means 'retainer' or 'groom'.  4 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE KNIGHTS a landholding warrior class developed free of all duties save that of rendering mounted service to their lord for a given number of days during the year. To assure possession of their land they built themselves castles. These were normally sited so as to command access roads, with a 'donjon' or keep in which their family could live, outbuildings for their retainers, the whole surrounded by a high curtain wall rendered proof by battlements against escalade and protected by a moat. Medieval castles were symbols of effective power, and wars tended to consist of straightforward struggles for their possession. The descendants of that warrior class-a few hundred families constantly intermarrying and as constantly reinforced by fresh recruits-were to retain the landed dominance of Europe until the sixteenth century, politica