on, on physical courage and self-sacrifice in personal behaviour, on the need for heroic leadership in situations of extreme stress; all based on an acceptance of the inevitability of armed conflict within the states-system and the consequent need to develop the qualities necessary to conduct it. By the end of the nineteenth century European society was militarized to a very remarkable degree. War was no longer considered a matter for a feudal ruling class or a small group of professionals, but one for the people as a whole. The armed forces were regarded, not as part of the royal household, but as the embodiment of the Nation. Dynas- tic sovereigns emphasized their rôle as national leaders by appearing whenever possible in uniform; and military parades, military bands, military ceremonial provided an image of the Nation with which all classes could identify themselves. For militaristic nationalism was not a purely bourgeois phenomenon. When Marx wrote that the working man had no country, he may have spoken truly about the workers of the early industrial revolution, uprooted from a stable social order in the countryside, huddled in wretched conditions in cities which had as yet developed no sense of identity, truly alienated from the society which exploited them. But fifty years later state education, legitimized and powerful trades unions, and, perhaps most important of all, a cheap and lurid press had transformed the situation. By the beginning of the twentieth century the working classes were responding at least as readily to the stimuli of nationalism as they were to those of socialism, and the most successful political leaders were those who could blend the appeals of both. The appeals for class unity across international frontiers were scattered to the winds once the bugles began to blow in 1914. To suggest, as have some historians, that the frenetic and militaristic nationalism of the early twentieth century was caused by a reactionary ruling class successful