of men-of-war. Both the command and the supply system of the French Navy disintegrated. As for the British, they reflected deeply on the faults which had led to their humiliations between 1778 and 1783. Parliament was more  90 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OFTHE REVOLUTION 91 3 generous to the navy than to the army: in the first two years after the conclusion of peace, 1784-5, £20m, out of a total national expenditure of £50m, was spent on restoring the navy. The Augean Stables of Admiralty administration were cleansed by a new Comptroller, Sir Charles Middleton. Admiral Sir Charles Douglas introduced reforms of gunnery comparable to those of Gribeauval in France, making naval gunfire flexible, fast and accurate, encouraging British men-of-war to close with and destroy their adversaries at close quarters instead of standing off and raking them with fire. A new signalling system gave a far greater degree of initia- tive, flexibility, and control to naval commanders, so this close-quarter fighting did not result in the confusion of the old mêlées. Already the rigid inflexibility of the line of battle, which had dominated war at sea in the eighteenth century as com- pletely as it had dominated war by land, had begun to break down in the War of American Independence. Now British admirals had the capacity to use an infinite variety of tactical formations and expedients, and a sagacious Admiralty encouraged them to do so. Rodney, Howe, Jarvis, above all Nelson, showed how to combine the new techniques with professional skill and a tactical flair which bewildered their opponents, destroyed in succession the fleets of all their traditional enemies the Spanish, the Dutch, the French, and established a dominance over the oceans of the world which was to endure well into the twentieth century. It was this dominance, total after the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805, that enabled Britain to make a yet greater contribution to the defeat of Napoleon: the continental blockade. In the