n Sir John Hawkwood and formed the famous White Company. Barbarous as these foreigners were, the Italians sometimes found that as employees they had advantages over their own warriors who were liable, not simply to cheat their employers, but to take over political power. But by the end of the fourteenth century the foreigners had become absorbed into the local aristocracy, or had gone home, or were dead, and the 'condottieri' had become institu- tionalized. 'Condottieri' means simply 'contractors', being so called after the condotta which was their contract of service specifying  WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY 26 THE WARS OF THE MERCENARIES the size of the force to be provided, the length of time it was to serve, and the scale on which it was to be paid. They came in all shapes and sizes, from the leaders of small bands to great nobles like the Gonzagas, the Este, or the Colonnas, who took their rewards in lands or fiefs. Some established themselves, as did Frederick of Montefeltro at Urbino, as independent princes with whom any contract was virtually a treaty between sovereign powers. Others either became politically dominant in the states which employed them, as did the Visconti and the Sforzas in Milan, or became their permanent professional advisers on defence and the commanders and trainers of the citizen levies. The forces provided by the condottieri were predominantly mounted; that is, they consisted of 'lances' of at least one armoured man-at-arms with his train of attendant squire, page, and foot soldiers armed with spear or cross-bow, or, by the end of the fifteenth century, arquebus. The conduct of battle, especially in the hands of experts like Andrea Braccio and Francesco Sforza, became a subtle affair of feints and surprises, of forces held in reserve until the decisive moment, of manoeuvre as well as shock. Tactics and strategy became something of an art form. But their employers, having paid good money, demanded decisive results of a kind that the condottie