and sabres, trained to charge on the battle- field and exploit a breakthrough. In the great spaces of eastern Europe where no continuous fronts were established, cavalry remained effective well into the twentieth century. In western Europe a few weeks were enough to make it clear, to all except some of their own commanders, that heavy cavalry was now an expensive anachronism. Even its rôle in reconnaissance was soon to be taken over by the motor-cycle and the armoured-car. Military thinkers in general did not underestimate the problems raised by the new weapons. The experiences of 1870 were to be reinforced by those of the Russo-Turkish War of 1877-8, the British-Boer War in South Africa in 1899-1901, and the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-5; all of which illustrated 105 with increasing clarity the capacity of infantry dug into well- prepared positions and armed with modern weapons to inflict unsupportable casualties on assaulting forces. One independent observer, the Polish banker Ivan Bloch, on the basis of careful analysis of weapon performance, concluded in his book La Guerre Future (1898) that since it was now statistically impossible for attacks to succeed, war was no longer a viable instrument of policy at all. Military leaders understandably did not draw the same conclusion, but they did not deny that any force launching a frontal attack against prepared positions had to be prepared for very heavy casualties indeed ; while outflanking manoeuvres of the kind practised by the German armies in 1870 would call for enormous numbers. In either case the army with the greatest resources in man-power would enjoy a decisive advantage, and between 1871 and 1914 General Staffs vied with one another in demanding ever larger forces as the solution to their problems. The men who did so with the greatest urgency were the military planners in Berlin. The German General Staff had to plan to fight a two-front war, against both France and Russia. Their problems grew year by year as