ts the previous summer, going singing with linked arms to meet their deaths at the hands of British machine-gunners at Langemarck, the sense almost of ecstasy which emanates from the literature of that time. 1914, like 1789, though it was seen by some as a catastrophic breakdown of a system, perhaps of a civilization, was for others a moment of fulfilment and escape. As in 1789 immense, frustrated energies were released. The masses of men required by military professionals came forward with super- abundant goodwill. They marched their boots off to achieve Schlieffen's impossible targets. They threw their lives away without a word of complaint in fulfilment of Joffre's offensive strategy. And they continued to come forward. The enthusiasm which sustained the mass armies of Europe through 1914 began to ebb only two years later; and even then, so far as at least Britain and Germany were concerned, it only settled down into a dour and dogged endurance. This enthusiasm prevailed, not only in the armies but  112 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE NATIONS throughout the societies that produced them, both reflected in and stoked up by the popular press. Again, it would be a crudely mechanistic and distorted explanation to attribute this simply to propaganda and manipulation by ruling élites: in Britain and France the traditional statesmen, the Asquiths and the Vivianis, who held power in the early part of the war were rudely shouldered aside by more demotic figures, the Lloyd Georges and the Clemenceaus, who could respond more readily to the mood of what we would now call the Radical Right; and even in Germany, where the fall of the civilian Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg was engineered in 1917 by the High Command, the subsequent military dictatorship of Hindenburg and Ludendorff was supported by a powerful organization, the Fatherland Front, which represented all strata of society but probably drew the bulk of its support from the lower middle classes. All this made poss