t than to encourage them. But the same processes that were increasing the involvement of the armed forces with the community from which they were drawn were simultaneously creating a purely military requirement for governments to draw on the resources of those communities more deeply than ever in order to sustain them. In the eighteenth century it was generally accepted that there was a strict limit to the size of armies that could usefully be deployed in the field-a limit fixed by problems of supply. Very seldom did eighteenth-century commanders operate with armies in excess of 80,000 men. These bounds were trans- cended, as we have seen, by the French armies of the revolu- tionary era, which supplemented their regular supply sources by organized or unorganized pillage; but the disaster which overtook the armies some 600,000 strong which Napoleon led into Russia in 1812 showed that even this ruthless improviza- tion had its limits. With the introduction of railways these limits disappeared. Once the administrative complexities of moving armies by rail were mastered, as they were mastered by the Prussian General Staff in the 186os, the only restrictions on size were the numbers of men of military age in the community, the political and economic constraints on their conscription, and the administrative capacity to train, equip, and mobilize them. In 1870 the North German Confederation deployed against France exactly twice the number of men Napoleon had led into Russia-1,200,000. By 1914 the German figure had again doubled, to 3,400,000 men; with comparable increases among her neighbours. By the end of the century the security  100 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE NATIONS of continental powers was seen to depend primarily if not entirely on the size of the armed forces they were able to put into the field. This assumption rested very largely on the experiences of the German Wars of Unification in 1866 and 1870, when Prussia had taken only a few weeks to destroy