ation. In principle not only ecclesiastics and their possessions but the tillers of the soil were exempt from looting and pillage. But that exemption did not apply if they were suspected of giving 'aid and counte- nance' to the war, which they usually were. Finally there was a yet more terrible form of war, at its most common in siege warfare when the besieged fortress refused to surrender when summoned: guerre mortelle, in which not only the property but the lives of the vanquished were at the mercy of the conqueror. By the fourteenth century the laws and limitations on the conduct of war were elaborate, much written about, and fairly uniform throughout western Christendom. They derived partly from the pressure of the Church, partly from the growing influence of Roman Law and partly from the codification of practice over centuries carried out by those indispensable experts, the lawyers of chivalry, the Heralds. They were enforced by courts of honour throughout Europe; they were seen less as a system of positive law or as restraints consciously 7 dictated by humanitarianism than as a code of social behaviour. This was what was 'done' or 'not done' between knights. Under some circumstances butchery of prisoners was per- missible (if a declaration of guerre mortelle was made by word or sign at the beginning of a battle) and under others, not: it was not considered to be wrong in itself, any more than women and children were seen as possessing eo ipso any kind of privileged immunity. If they were part of the garrison of a fortress which was taken by storm after rejecting a summons to surrender, they were put to the sword, and responsibility for their death lay squarely with the commander who, by failing to yield when summoned, brought their fate down on them. But the increasing codification of the laws of war was due less to any searching of Christian, legal, or knightly cons- ciences than to a very different development indeed: the growing commercialization of war.4 R