d muskets were developed whose bullets could be dropped down the barrel and on being fired expanded to fit the grooves, giving a rate of fire similar to that of the old musket with added range and accuracy as well. Simultaneously the flintlock firing mechanism was replaced by the far more reliable percussion cap. With these weapons the French, British, Russian, and Austrian armies fought their campaigns in the Crimea and in Italy in the 1850s. In these campaigns the Prussians played no part; so it was not until their war against Austria in 1866 that the effectiveness of the Dreyse 'needle gun' with which they had been equipping their infantry for the last twenty years could be gauged. This was the first rifled breech-loader-a clumsy weapon which lacked the range of the muzzle-loader and was, thanks to the massive escape of gas from the breech, very disagreeable to fire. But it fired three shots to the muzzle-loader's one, and posses- sed the supreme advantage that it could be fired lying down. For the first time in the history of war the infantryman could kill his adversary at a range of several hundred yards without presenting a target himself-an advantage which the Prussians put to such good effect in 1866 that all other European armies rapidly acquired improved breech-loaders of their own. In artillery the same development took place. By 1860 all European armies were equipped with various kinds of muzzle- 103 loading rifled cannon with ranges of between one thousand and three thousand yards. Here the Prussian army lagged behind both the Austrian and the French; but the indifferent performance of their guns in 1866 led to a rapid revolution in their tactics and the introduction of the new steel breech- loading cannon developed by Friedrich Krupp. These guns dominated the battlefields of 1870. After the first checks inflicted on German forces by the superior French chassepot rifles, the Prussian generals kept their infantry out of range and used their guns to batte