n to its foundations. Eighteenth-century Europe was a system of states whose frontiers were clearly delineated and whose rulers were absolute sovereigns within their own realms. Their mutual relations were conducted by a precise diplomatic protocol according to clear principles of international law. Their wars were conducted with equally well-defined protocol by professional and armed forces recruited from all over Europe and officered by an almost equally international aristocratic cousinage. All this was now to be called in question and, in places, transformed. This transformation was very largely the result of twenty-five years of almost uninterrupted warfare, from 1792 until 1815, between revolutionary France and her neighbours; warfare on a scale unprecedented since the barbarian invasions. But those wars were at least as much a symptom of revolutionary change as they were a cause of it. LI The nature of eighteenth-century warfare was so intimately bound up with the nature of the society conducting it that a revolution in the one was bound to cause a revolution in the other. Once the state ceased to be regarded as the 'property' of dynastic princes, however hard-working and devoted to the interests of their peoples those princes might be, and became instead the instruments of powerful forces dedicated to such abstract concepts as Liberty, or Nationality, or Revolution, which enabled large numbers of the population to see in that state the embodiment of some absolute Good for which no price was too high, no sacrifice too great to pay; then the 'temperate and indecisive contests' of the rococo age appeared  76 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE REVOLUTION as absurd anachronisms. As Carl von Clausewitz, who lived through this period, discerned, wars are not discrete activities but the expressions of state policy, the implementation of that policy by other means. As states change their nature, so will their policy change, and so will their wars. If we consider