est as a group of specialists whose affairs were no concern of theirs, at worst as an object of derision and contempt. The men of the Enlightenment no longer accepted war as the necessary destiny of mankind, a fate to be endured with patience and courage; nor did eighteenth-century economists see in it that unique source of wealth which had seemed so obvious and necessary to their seventeenth-century predecessors. Wealth was increasingly believed to derive from free and unhindered commerce in those commodities which a beneficent providence had distributed so wisely over the face of the world that men would, in exchanging them, be ever increasingly bound together by bonds of harmony and peace. So taught the physiocrats in France and the disciples of the great Adam Smith in England. War was the result of mistaken laws, false perceptions, and vested interests, and if the world was ruled and organized by clear-sighted men who understood the true nature of human and social behaviour, it need never occur. So taught Voltaire and the Encyclopaedists. For them soldiers  WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY 74 5 The Wars of the Revolution were survivors from a bygone epoch, representatives of a life- style from which enlightened men were emancipating them- selves and from which one day, soon, mankind would escape altogether. This was one reaction to the growth of professional armies. But there was another of a very different kind. There were also those in France who saw these tightly-knit institutions, kept apart from the rest of society and reducing the conduct of war to an ever more specialized and abstruse science, as inadequate instruments for the great social and political forces which were beginning to gather momentum under the placid surface of late eighteenth-century society; forces which must find expres- sion in new kinds of military organization, new styles of war. One of their spokesmen was the Comte Jacques de Guibert, whose Essai générale de tactique was published in 1772 an