ophe of Jena in 1806 vindicated most signally the ideas of these men-Gerhard von Scharnhorst, Hermann von Boyen, August von Gneisenau, Carl von Clausewitz. Scharnhorst, their leader, was appointed President of the Military Reorganization Commission set up after Jena to remodel the Prussian Army. It was clearly not enough mechanically to imitate such French formations and techniques as the divisional system and the employment of light infantry. So long as the Prussian Army consisted of long- 87 service conscripts despised by the rest of the population and kept in order by the lash, no serious military reform was possible. The army had to consist of serious, intelligent, reliable patriots who saw themselves as the defenders of their country and were seen as such by the rest of the community. But first it was necessary, as Gneisenau drily remarked, 'to give the People a Fatherland if they are to defend that Fatherland effectively'. And was that Fatherland simply the hereditary estates of the Hohenzollern family? Was it not rather a broader, nobler concept: Germany? These were dangerous thoughts-the kind of thoughts, indeed, that the Hohenzollerns and the Habsburgs and their attendant nobilities considered that they were fighting France to suppress. To fight fire with this kind of fire was hardly an appealing prospect, and Scharnhorst and his collaborators found themselves faced with bitter opposition from the court and within the army itself. Some gave up in despair and, like Clausewitz, took service with the Russian Army. But in 1813, after the destruction of Napoleon's armies in Russia, the situation was transformed. An outburst of patriotic enthusiasm throughout Germany, among all classes, broke down many of the old barriers. Conscription was introduced, and a national service force, the landwehr, was created which elected its own officers and in which service was compulsory for all men of military age who were not called up into the army itself. The army and the la