war for fifty years. But the work of concentra- tion was not to be undone, and a small number of clearly sovereign princes, with powers and rights of a distinctive kind, emerged from the ruck of contesting counts and dukes as the  WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY 22 23 THE WARS OF THE MERCENARIES foci of a new order of power-political, financial, and military. The edges of the class were very blurred indeed, especially in Germany, where the spectrum stretched from major potentates like the Dukes of Bavaria and Saxony to the lords of a few acres in Swabia or Franconia; but what became increasingly clear, in the century of fighting which followed the death of Charles V, was that the relationship of these princes to one another was no longer determined by feudal rivalries or obligations, but by the facts of economic and military power, and that such power was increasingly to accumulate in the hands of the stronger. Only in Germany did the princelings survive, because the Habsburgs were too busy fighting the French or the Turks to deal with them. Even the states of the Italian peninsula, already reduced by the beginning of the sixteenth century to a bare half dozen, had by the end of that century very largely disappeared into the Habsburg maw. Only Savoy, Venice, and the Papal States retained more than the semblance of sovereignty. For by the sixteenth century the price of independence was becoming very high indeed. It was not only the spectacular artillery trains which had to be paid for but the no less expensive and necessary professional infantry. So had fortifica- tions which, as we shall see, were becoming ever more elabo- rate. The prince who had the political power to raise taxes from his subjects, or the credit to raise loans from the new banking houses like the Fugger and the Welser, could put armies into the field which steam-rollered their lesser opponents into oblivion. Certainly all this was easier said than done : the wars of Charles V and Francis I proceeded by fi