e Ecole Militaire of Brienne was to be a young Corsican, Napoleon Bonaparte. Developments in weapon technology alone do not provide an adequate explanation of the change which came over European warfare between the time of Gustavus Adolphus and that of Frederick the Great. The really significant changes took place, not in the tools with which the armies operated, but in the structure of the armies themselves and of the states which employed them. Indeed it is doubtful whether the improve- ments in weapons would have taken place at all, much less have been fully exploited, if full-time professionals had not been available to put them to good effect and-perhaps more important-full-time state officials had not been in a position to take decisions about their development, arrange for their manufacture and supply, and pay for them. The pioneer in all this was France. It was the Bourbon monarchy that took the blueprint provided by Gustavus Adolphus and developed, by the end of the century a fully functioning military mechanism which every state in Europe had to imitate if it was not to be overwhelmed by it. When Gustavus died in 1631 it hardly appeared possible that France, her monarchy bankrupt, her society barely recovered from half a century of civil war, could ever take the lead in Europe again. In terms of European politics France was almost a nonentity. Such recovery as had been achieved was due to the success of Henry IV in bringing her civil wars to an end and to Richelieu in steering clear of foreign conflicts; or, if this was not possible, fighting them by proxy. On the death of Gustavus, who was the greatest proxy of them all, Richelieu saw himself faced with the necessity of improvising an army and entering the field himself if Habsburg power, Spanish and Austrian, was not to become dominant in Europe. It was an appalling undertaking. The French crown had little control over the heterogeneous provinces which it ruled. It commanded only the nominal allegiance o