nt that field- guns no longer had to fire at a range of a few thousand yards over open sights, as in 1870: they could now be brought into action from up to five miles, firing from concealed positions ;  104 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE NATIONS while recoilless carriages, making it unnecessary to resight the gun after each shot, improved both rate and accuracy of fire. Heavy artillery acquired a range of twenty or more miles-in the case of some exceptional monsters, fifty or sixty-and could crash through all existing fortifications. 1870 had indicated what the Great War of 1914-18 was to confirm-that artillery was to become the central, perhaps the decisive weapon on the battlefield. By 1918 it was artillery that took ground, infantry that held it; and ground derived its importance very largely from the facilities it provided for artillery observation. What, finally, about cavalry, the oldest, most prestigious arm of all? Its importance for raiding and reconnaissance remained unquestioned-indeed, on the newly-enlarged battlefields, greater than ever before. So also was its mobility in conveying fire-power: the value of 'mounted infantry', the old 'dragoons', was shown very clearly in the wide spaces of South Africa, not to mention the battlefields of the American Civil War. But cavalrymen resisted any suggestion that they would in future be confined to such ancillary rôles, instead of providing that decisive shock in battle which historically they saw as their raison d'être. Increased infantry fire power would, they hoped, be neutralized by improved artillery fire power. The greater distances to be covered would not defeat their improved breeds of horses. So 1914 saw all the armies of Europe still equipped with full establishments of cavalry armed with lances and sabres, trained to charge on the battle- field and exploit a breakthrough. In the great spaces of eastern Europe where no continuous fronts were established, cavalry remained effective well into t