age, were an accepted part of all European armies.1 As for artillery, something has already been said about the reforms introduced in the French Army in the 176os by Jean-Baptiste de Gribeauval which made French guns stan- dardized, mobile, and accurate. Their actual mode of employ- ment on the battlefield was analyzed by the Chevalier Jean du Teil who with his brother, the Baron Joseph du Teil, was to be one of the patrons and teachers of the young Napoleon Bonaparte. In his work De l'usage de l'artillerie nouvelle dans la guerre de campagne (1778) du Teil showed how concepts familiar in siege warfare could be employed on the battlefield ; in particular, how gunfire could be concentrated to make and exploit a breach in the enemy line of battle. He stressed tactical elements such as the interdependence of fire and movement and the advantage of oblique over direct fire, but always he came back to the need for concentration of effort. 'We must collect the greatest number of troops and a greater quantity of artillery at the point where we wish to break the enemy. . . . We must multiply our artillery on the points of attack which must decide the victory. . . . Artillery, thus intelligently sus- tained and multiplied, brings decisive results. 2 The desire for a decisive concentration of force to break the expensive deadlock which resulted from the confrontation of orthodox lines of battle also lay behind the advocacy, continu- ous in the French Army since the War of the Spanish Succession, 79 of the employment of infantry columns of attack, l'ordre profonde. The French had never taken so kindly as had the Prussians to l'ordre mince, with its requirement for iron discipline and impeccable drill. This did indeed require an army of a very peculiar kind to perform it effectively. The leading French military writer of the early eighteenth century, the Chevalier de Folard, argued so powerfully in favour of the column of attack, a deep formation designed to maximize the power o