ost overnight. The availability and the welfare of that manpower therefore 107 became a matter of state concern as never before. The birth rate itself was an index of military power, and the French watched the decline of theirs after 1870, compared with the soaring figures of their German rivals, with deep concern. The physical health of the conscripts was important: social policy in the United Kingdom owed a great deal to the experience of the 1850s, when it was discovered that an alarmingly high proportion of militiamen called to the colours for the war against Russia had to be rejected as unfit for service. So also were basic educational standards. Modern armies had become complex organizations demanding literacy and numeracy down to a very low level of the hierarchy; a cynic might suggest that it was even more necessary for NCOs to be literate than it was for officers. The common saying that it was the Prussian schoolmasters who won the Franco-Prussian War implied something very different from the comment attributed to Wellington, that the battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton. 1 Not that the traditional qualities of the aristocracy-courage, initiative, independence, leadership-were not equally neces- sary on battlefields so large that senior officers could only state their intentions in the most general terms and leave it to their juniors to translate them into practice as well as circum- stances permitted. It was necessary to have very large quanti- ties of very good officers. These could not be provided from the ranks of the aristocracy alone, even though the slump in land values in the latter part of the century made the landed classes look to the military profession with renewed interest as a source of economic salvation. And even if the aristocracy could still provide the kind of charismatic leadership which was their traditional raison d'être, other qualities were increasingly demanded of professional soldiers-an understanding of techno