lies had determined should be a war to end wars? To answer this question we must get the First World War into proportion. In the last chapter we described how in the nineteenth century developments in weapons technology in- creased both the destructiveness of war and the demands which it made on the manpower of the nations conducting it. But to counterbalance this grim picture, we should notice also how improvements in transportation and medical science during the same period alleviated at least some of the horrors which had attended war in the pre-industrial age. Before 1870 deaths from sickness in armies normally surpassed death from enemy action by a factor of about five to one. By 1918 this proportion had been reversed. Similarly, before 1815 by far the greater number of those wounded in action either died of their wounds within a few days or were at best incapacitated for life. Thereafter the proportion of the wounded who totally recovered rapidly increased; which makes it necessary to scrutinize the gruesome 'casualty lists' of the First World War with great care in order to distinguish between those killed outright or dying of their wounds, and the large numbers of lightly wounded who returned to duty and may have figured 117 several times on casualty lists without being any the worse. Improvements in transport ensured also that no troops-at least in western Europe-were subjected to extreme hardship for more than at the very most a few weeks at a time, and that arrangements could be made for their rest and recreation. Finally, with certain horrible exceptions, the citizen soldiers carried over into military life standards of humanity in their treatment both of civilians on the battlefield and of the enemy. Since the wars of the mid-nineteenth century valiant attempts had been made to lay down ground-rules which would make the conduct of war more humane. The International Red Cross Society had been founded after the Franco-Austrian War of 1859. International c