de up of men paid from a central treasury. Historians indeed normally date the beginnings of 'Modern European History' from the Italian Wars which opened with the French invasion of 1494. But few men at the end of the fifteenth century were conscious of a new era dawning, of any 'change of gear', in warfare or in anything else. Rather, indeed, the opposite. In the last chapter something was said about the self- conscious archaism of the later Middle Ages and especially of the French chivalry which constituted the backbone of the royal armies. It was an archaism which was to last until the middle of the sixteenth-century; at least until the disappear- ance of that pair of princely rivals who embodied that feeling in their own persons and round whose quarrels all the politics of Europe became polarized, Francis I of France and the Emperor Charles V. The wars which filled the first half of the sixteenth century and were ended only by the stalemate at Cateau Cambrésis in 1559, were all entirely 'medieval' in their motivation; that is, they were fought to assert or to defend personal rights of property and succession, to reduce unruly vassals to obedience, to defend Christendom against the Turk, or the Church against heresy. Charles VIII invaded Italy to support the claims of the House of Anjou to the throne of Naples against those of the House of Aragon, and thence to lead a crusade to recapture Jerusalem. His successor Louis XII of Orleans prolonged the war to vindicate the claim of his 21 house to the Duchy of Milan against the Sforzas and their Imperial patrons. The Emperor Charles V, after his election in 1517, inherited both these quarrels, the first from one grandfather Ferdinand of Aragon, the second from the other, the Emperor Maximilian; together with a third quarrel from one grandmother, Isabella of Castile, over the crown of Navarre, and a fourth from the other, Mary of Burgundy, over the lands which her father Charles the Bold had lost to the king of France.