inst the Russian position but charged it head on, carrying it eventually with a loss of 30,000 men he could ill afford but entirely failing to destroy Kutusov's army. As a result of their clumsy battering against Wellington's lines at Waterloo the French lost 25,000 out of 72,000 men, over a third of their strength. If he did not win his battle, Napoleon's entire strategy was ruined. Although he did not ignore problems of supply, and indeed made careful preparations at the outset of every campaign, the speed with which he drove on his armies made it impossible for their supply columns to keep up. They thus had to a large extent to live off the country as had their predecessors in the Thirty Years War. Napoleon expected his troops to fend for themselves, which indeed they did, though they did not make the French cause very popular in the process. But when the size of armies ran into six figures, they could do this only for short periods, and so long as they kept on the move. For more prolonged subsistence they relied on capturing the enemy's magazines after the battle and then forcing the defeated country to support them. But when in 1807 Napoleon began to penetrate into the less fertile areas of Europe, into Poland after the battle of Eylau, and into the Iberian peninsula, supply became a nagging and insoluble problem. The secret of Wellington's success in the Peninsula lay in the cool ruthlessness with which he exploited and exacerbated the French supply difficulties while ensuring that he should have none of his own. The success of the Russians in 1812 rested on their ability to deny Napoleon his decisive battle and permit him to advance into their country to a far deeper extent than his supply arrangements could cover.  86 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE REVOLUTION Winter and starvation did the rest. In the three years left to him Napoleon had to confine himself to operations of more traditional scope; and the traditional talents conserved by the armies o