Spanish tercios were to dominate the battlefields of Europe throughout the sixteenth century and the first third of the seventeenth, the exception is an important one. Spanish infantry was unusual in several respects. In the first place it originally consisted of conscripts: by the Ordinance of Valladolid in 1494 one man in twelve between the ages of twenty and forty-five was de- clared liable for paid service at home or abroad. This was on the model of comparable French attempts to complement their gens d'armes with a class of professional infantry, but whereas the French repeatedly failed, the Spaniards succeeded in creat- ing a solid core of expert professionals whose standards re- mained intact even when, later in the century, their armies came to consist largely of volunteers. Their success was at least partly due to the absence from Spain of the heavy cavalry tradition which had dominated French armies since the days 33 of Charlemagne. The barren countryside of Spain did not lend itself to the breeding of cavalry horses. Mounted warfare dur- ing the reconquista had consisted of genitours skirmishing on light ponies. The tradition of the Spanish nobility was not, like that of the French and Burgundians, exclusively chevaleresque. It was therefore quite usual for a young Spanish nobleman to enlist in the infantry and serve in the ranks, though he probably had a servant and a couple of mounts to transport him and his bag- gage on the march. When the armies of Ferdinand of Aragon invaded Naples in 1495 to vindicate his hereditary claim to that kingdom, they were initially not equipped with the pikes and arquebuses of his northern rivals, but, like the infantry of the Italian states, with swords and bucklers. This won the approval of such devotees of classical models as Machiavelli, but made no impression whatever on the Swiss pike squares. The Spanish commander Gonsalvo di Cordova quickly accommodated him- self to the new style. He provided not merely pike but arq