merican military protection for their Western neighbours. Yet neither organisation involved the revival of Europe as an independent military actor on the world stage. Attempts, led largely by France, to give the European Union a military dimension repeatedly failed; while the expansion of NATO from fourteen to twenty-six members has only created a complexity of deci- sion-making that did more to weaken than strengthen an organization that had already proved almost impossibly top-heavy when in the 1990s it intervened to restore order of a kind in the disintegrating territories of Yugoslavia. Today NATO survives primarily as an unwieldy group of auxiliaries to the United States, whose contribution is political rather than military. Underlying this military decline lay a profound change in the culture of the European peoples. They no longer regarded war as a serious 'instrument of policy', let alone as the inevitable destiny of mankind. Even in 1939, after the terrible experience of the First World War, they had taken up arms only with the deepest reluctance, with the exception only of a deeply revengeful Germany; and the events of the Second World War-the annihilation of their armies in Russia, the destruction of their cities from the air-left the Germans even more pacific than their neighbours. The Russians, after two terrible invasions in a single lifetime, dreaded another war as much as anyone, but fear of a renascent Germany backed by American nuclear power kept them in a state of continued mobilization. Comparably, the fear of Soviet invasion impelled the nations of Western Europe to rearm again within a few years of the restoration of peace, if only as the price that had to be paid for the assurance of American protection. Yet the development of nuclear weapons made the rationale for Europe's 'conventional' forces highly problematic. During the 1950s the United States, rapidly followed by the Soviet Union, developed thermonuclear weapons a thousand times more po