r harvests, rents, and general taxation. Like the French intendance, these Prussian officials, the steuerkommissäre and land- räthe, created a bureaucratic framework which gave the crown 69 a new degree of control over the economic activities and resources of its subjects and which, gradually eliminating local rights and particularism, produced an effective central govern- ment focused on Berlin. A State, in fact: the Prussian State; called into being to provide for the needs of the King of Prussia's army. Thanks to these securely laid foundations it was possible for the Great Elector's grandson King Frederick William I (1713-40) to build up an army 80,000 men strong, the fourth largest in Europe. It was organized with infinite care to impose the least possible strain on the fragile economy of his lands. The bourgeoisie, good fruitful taxpayers, did not serve at all. The ranks were recruited so far as possible from foreigners and from peasants who were sent back to their farms at seed-time and harvest; they were paid a pittance and encouraged to supple- ment their pay by practising a trade in their barracks; and they were of course far too precious to be allowed to do any very serious fighting. The officers were found almost exclu- sively from the nobility, who were virtually conscripted to the royal service-noble families being compelled to send at least one son into the cadet corps from which the mainstream of officers was drawn. In return for a confirmation of all their privileges, the Prussian nobility were bound to the services of the crown. Within a couple of generations a noblesse which had rivalled their neighbours the Poles in their wild and unbiddable independence had become the docile pillars of the Hohen- zollern monarchy, and so remained-the von Alvenslebens, the von Tresckows, the von Falkensteins, the von Manteuffels, the von Kleists-until that monarchy collapsed two hundred years later. The Prussian officer corps was probably the most socially exclus