t totally from conflicts which, if they came, would be fought by comparatively small numbers of military technicians wielding destructive power on an almost inconceivable scale. To understand how this came about we must now retrace our steps and consider certain developments in nineteenth- century warfare with which we did not deal in the last chapter. Technology in the nineteenth century made it possible to mass-produce weapons which were not only increasingly effective but easy to manipulate. For the infantry, cartridges eliminated the need to manipulate powder and shot; breech- loading eliminated the ram-rod; magazines and bolt action gave a rapidity of fire, and calibrated sights an accuracy, which made of every conscript within a few weeks a marksman with whom the oldest Grenadier in Frederick the Great's Prussian Guard could never have begun to compete. So also with artillery: breech-loading and recoilless carriages elimi- nated the tedious business of swabbing-out and relaying after each shot which had made the old cannon such a slow and erratic weapon even in the hands of experts. With a few drill movements, some simple calculations read off a table, and a plentiful supply of high explosive shell, a regiment of field guns could in 1914 deliver on to a target area of a few hundred square yards more destructive power in an hour than had been fired by all the guns on both sides in the whole course of the Napoleonic wars. All this could be done by conscripts after a 121 few months' training. Mass production of these weapons made necessary mass production of men. In a society economically so close-knit as that of Europe, any advantage given by the possession of technically superior weapons was temporary and unlikely in itself to be decisive. Numbers were what mattered. Yet there does come a point when range and destructiveness of fire power is in itself enough to carry the day; when a technically inferior power, even if numerically superior, does not have the cha