was virtually a war of extermination. Within Christendom however the situation was, at least in principle, different. That Christians should fight one another was deplorable and the Church deplored it as regularly and as ineffectively then as it has done ever since. But Christian theologians agreed that certain wars were 'just'; broadly speaking, those waged on the authority of a lawful superior in a righteous cause. And it was not surprising that a class of men  6 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE KNIGHTS brought up for generations for fighting, when an external adversary was lacking (and even when he was not) should fight one another. In the absence of any commonly accepted authority with the power to enforce its judgements, armed conflict would have been probable in a far less bellicose community. The web of rights and obligations, of duties and allegiances involved by feudal tenure gave rise to endless disputes, and in default of a clear system of law and law enforcement, men were likely to vindicate their rights by battle. Such battle was seen as an appeal to God's judgement, and for the greater part of the Middle Ages every man of honour had the right to wage it. Only gradually was a distinction made, under the influence of Roman Law concepts, between 'private war' between individuals and 'public war' conducted by princes, and only gradually did the former category become outlawed. It was accepted that 'private war', guerre couverte, should be waged with as little damage as possible to the general community: a man might kill his adversary in battle, but not burn or despoil his property. In 'public war' the limits were broader. Prisoners could be taken and held to ransom; the property of the enemy was lawful booty; contri- butions could be levied on the population. In principle not only ecclesiastics and their possessions but the tillers of the soil were exempt from looting and pillage. But that exemption did not apply if they were suspected of giving 'ai