judgement. 'The Revolution in Military Affairs' may have enabled the Americans to win battles. but it was of limited value when it came to the conduet of wars that demanded political sensitivity as well as technological superiority: Failure to plan for the consequences of military victory meant that Iraq rapidly disintegrated into civil war There was widespread resentment at the invaders whose incompetence had only substituted brutal dictatorship with bloody anarchy. This unpopular- ity naturally strengthened the hands of Islamic extremists not only in the region itself but among the Islamic diasporas in Europe, whose assimilation into the indigenous population was already becoming problematic. Those who believe in 'the War against Terror' can claim that today Europe is again at war Even those who disagree can hardly claim that the peace is stable or likely to remain so. Leon Trotsky once said 'You may not be interested in war, but war is very interested in you'; a lesson that Europeans who believe that they have now put war behind them need to ponder. They may no longer breed their own wars and export them to the rest of the world, But they cannot seal their borders against wider conflicts in a global system of which they are indissolubly a part. Chapter 1 The Wars of the Knights I. R. A. BROWN, The Origins of Modern Europe, London, 1972, p. 93. 2. See LYNN WHITE, Medieval Technology and Social Change, Oxford, 1966, p. 2. 3. J. HUIZINGA, The Waning of the Middle Ages, London, 1937, passim. 4. M. H. KEEN, The Laws of War in the late Middle Ages, London, 1965, p. 154 ff. 5. SIR CHARLES OMAN, The Art of War in the Middle Ages, vol. II, London, 1924, p. 145. Even the German historian Hans Delbrück, normally contemptuous of British claims, gives French casualties at 1,283. (Geschichte der Kriegskunst, vol. III, Berlin, 1891, pp. 464-473-) 6. OMAN, op. cit., vol. II, p. 384. FERDINAND LOT, L'Art Militaire et les Armées au moyen age, Paris, 1946, vol. II, pp. 8-15. Chapte