there; and they removed from the control of the regimental colonels responsibility both for equipment and supply and for the conduct of operations. The crown appointed the lieutenant-colonels who commanded the regiments in the field, and the general officers who com- manded the higher formations. Insubordination among these officers was punished by loss of the royal commission, and the few aristocratic commanders who tried to avoid this indignity by resigning before they could be dismissed were sent to the Bastille for lèse-majesté. Officers had to serve as musketeers in the royal Guard before being commissioned at all; and standards of drill, discipline, and training throughout the infantry were set by a model regiment. The colonel of that regiment acted as Inspector General for the army as a whole and his reputation has disagreeably enriched the vocabularies of both the French and the English tongues : M. de Martinet. But the most important innovation of all was the creation of a civil bureaucracy to administer the army-a remarkable achievement considering that in those days no formal bureau- cracies existed to administer anything. The crown normally either sold offices outright for ready cash, or placed contracts with individuals or syndicates for anything it wanted done; whether it was raising taxes, raising or supplying armed forces, manufacturing weapons, or as we saw in the last chapter, fitting out privateers to distress the king's enemies. This bureaucracy, the intendance, originated in the days of Richelieu 65 as a regular system of inspectors or overseers visiting or residing with the armies, checking on recruiting, ensuring so far as possible regular supplies of food, ammunition, and money and reporting back to the Secretary of State for War. Le Tellier expanded this into a complete administrative frame- work which was put to use by his son. These officials negotiated and supervised all contracts for food, arms, and equipment- including uniforms, an obvi