mpts had been made to lay down ground-rules which would make the conduct of war more humane. The International Red Cross Society had been founded after the Franco-Austrian War of 1859. International conferences had met, at Geneva in 1864 and 1906 and the Hague in 1899 and 1907, to regulate the treatment of civilians, of the wounded, and prisoners of war and (with considerably less success) the lethality of the weapons used. Partly as a result of these humanitarian activities and of the continuing operation of the spirit they expressed, the onset of 'mass-war' did not involve a relapse into barbarism. The Red Cross was on the whole respected. Enemy wounded were treated with humanity. Reciprocal caution and international inspection ensured the fair treatment of prisoners of war. As a result soldiers even in the front areas often lived in conditions which their predecessors would have had good reason to envy. They were regularly and adequately fed. Many of them indeed were better cared for, thanks to the development of ancillary military services, than they had been in civilian life at home. The image of the Great War which later developed in Europe as a period of almost unrelieved horror was not shared by many of the soldiers themselves when they returned to a post-war world which was for many of them disappointing and drab and for some one of real deprivation. At post-war regimental reunions they were able to persuade themselves-perhaps with increasing facility as they grew older-that the war with its comradeship and its adventures, its challenges and triumphs, its economic security and freedom from domestic responsibilities, had really been the happiest time in their lives.1 This nostalgia for a lost world of security,  118 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OFTHE TECHNOLOGISTS status, and purpose was to be a significant element in the confused political movements which were in the 1920s to give birth to various forms of Fascism. For although the experience of the Gre