at it seemed unlikely that the campaign could provide a model for any such future enterprises. In the Far East the British showed a more solid record of success. Burma, like India, they left to its own devices, but their possessions in the Malay peninsula were economically too valuable to be abandoned without a fight. There, as elsewhere in their territories, British dominance was contested by indigenous movements inspired partly by a dislike of foreign rule and partly by a communist ideology that looked to China rather than Moscow as its model. The first challenge was met by credible promises of ultimate self-rule; the second, by a combination of military operations against communist guerrilla movements with the institution of civil reforms that provided all the social and economic benefits that the communists promised. The success of this cam- paign to win 'hearts and minds' in Malaysia kept British forces busy for twenty years. Its ultimate success was in sad contrast to the experiences of the French a little further north, where they attempted to re-impose their authority on their possessions in Indo-China; better known as Vietnam. Britain's share in the Allied victory in the Second World War may have made her more generous-and more realistic-in recognizing the wisdom of abandoning her imperial possessions with as good a grace as could be man- aged; but French experience in the war had been sadly different. Her army now felt the need to compensate for the defeat it had suffered in 1940 and the equivocal role it had played under the Vichy regime in the ensuing years; not least the accommodation it had had to make with the Japanese in the Far East. Challenged in Vietnam by a strong and well-organized independence move- ment the Vietminh, the French attempted a policy of military reconquest, using methods that only further antagonized the population. But the Vietminh under a brilliant political leader Ho Chi Minh and an outstanding general, Vo Nguyen Giap, not only