for the traditional skills of professional soldiers or for the loyal participation of patriotic peoples? Had 'war', as it had been understood and conducted in Europe for a thousand years, come to an end?  EPILOGUE Epilogue: The End of the European Era This book is about 'War in European History'; not 'The History of War', so the reader should not expect a survey of warfare in the second half of the twentieth century on the scale of those in the preceding chapters. For the past half century European states have not fought one another and are highly unlikely ever to do so again; but even if they did, there are other good reasons for seeing 1945 as marking the end of an era. In the first place, as a self-contained system of states 'Europe' ceased to exist after 1945. Indeed 'European History' as such might be said to have ended in a single week in December 1941, when the first counter-attacks of the Red Army north of Moscow revealed the massive power of the Soviet Union, and the Japanese attack at Pearl Harbor brought the United States as a full belligerent into the Second World War. These two states, both deriving their culture from European roots but commanding resources on a scale to dwarf those of all European powers, were to create new political and economic systems that divided Europe along the line of the eastern marches of the Carolingian Empire. So long as this situation lasted, any conflict between European states would have involved the participation of their powerful patrons and vice versa. War in Europe would have been a local conflict within a confrontation of global dimensions, and could be considered and planned for only in that context. Secondly, Europe had not only ceased to be a self-contained system of states. It had ceased to be the centre of the world political system. Until the fifteenth century the European system had co-existed with many others in the world, communication with most of which was intermittent or non-existent. Then Europe had expa