n 1415; where the English killed probably five thousand Frenchmen (a thou- sand after they had taken them prisoner) for the loss of a few hundred men of their own.6 By the fifteenth century a 'man-at-arms' with all his equip- ment and servitors was thus proving both inefficient on the battlefield, and expensive to sustain. And as their usefulness diminished, so their pretensions grew. Their armour became impossibly ornate, their tournaments more costly, their social status more jealously hedged around by a heraldic lore which 13 concentrated the more on questions of status as it had less to do with military function. New knightly orders were founded in conscious imitation of the great orders of the twelfth century : the Knights of the Garter, and the Knights of the Golden Fleece were the decadent if decorative successors of the war- riors of the Temple and St. John of Jerusalem and the great fighting orders of Spain. Most remarkable, all continued to think, doggedly, of the reconquest of Jerusalem-even as the advancing Ottoman Turks were prizing loose the last strong- holds of the crusaders in the eastern Mediterranean and begin- ning to threaten their bases in the West. The reconquest of Jerusalem was indeed one of the misty objectives floating before the eyes of Charles VIII of France when he invaded Italy in 1494. It was not the French chivalry who finally bundled the English back into their island, effective as the work of Joan of Arc no doubt was in rousing them. It was another profes- sional group who enjoyed no social status whatever and were barely accorded even the humble status of soldiers : the gunners. The use of some form of combustible material-'Greek fire' as it was loosely called-had long been used in warfare both by the Byzantine armies and the Moslems, normally in the form of fireballs propelled by catapult in siege or naval warfare. To reverse the process and use combustion itself as a propellant of missiles was a more difficult and dangerous affa