tality of human experience, the parts of which can be understood only in rela- tion to one another. One cannot adequately describe how wars were fought without giving some idea of what they were fought about. There are now numerous books which take this philosophy as the basis for their approach to the history of war, and I have done little more than put together in a very superficial fashion some of the ideas I have gleaned from them. A list will be found in the bibliographical note at the end of this work. I have also benefited greatly from discussions with my colleagues Pro- fessors J. M. Wallace-Hadrill and Lionel Butler, who tactfully  FOREWORD TO THE FIRST EDITION X Foreword to the 2009 Edition punctured some of my more ridiculous misconceptions about the Middle Ages, and Professor S. E. Finer, whose insights into the place of armed forces in modern societies have been most valuable. I am particularly grateful to the Vice Chancellor, faculty and students of the University of Warwick, who not only allowed me to try out some of my ideas on them in the Radcliffe Lectures in the Spring Term of 1975, but actually paid me to do so. All Souls College, Oxford November 1975 MICHAEL HOWARD This book was first published just over thirty years ago. At that time, 'military history' was only just beginning to emerge from the isolation to which it had been consigned by professional historians-especially British professional historians-for the best part of a century. The study of war had been left to popular writers and to military specialists whose concern was primarily didactic; to discern immutable 'principles of war', or lines of development as a guide to the more effective conduct of war in the future. It was taken seriously only in two British univer- sities-Oxford and, very recently, London-while booksellers sequestered 'military history' from general history on their shelves in a kind of purdah; as, alas, most of them still do. Nevertheless the experience of the two W