the eighth century, the horse could be used not simply for mobility but for fighting.2 Speed could be con- verted into shock. Spears need no longer be thrown but could be couched as lances and rammed home. Horsemen thus armed had an advantage over men fighting on foot as absolute as that which, a millenium later, men armed with breech- loading firearms had over enemies armed only with spears. And in both cases military dominance was to lead to political control. So during the eighth and ninth centuries the only fighting man of any consequence, the only miles who counted, was the 3 mounted warrior, the knight .* In 866 Charlemagne's grandson Charles the Bald summoning his tenants-in-chief to the feudal host, insisted that they should attend mounted, and ever thereafter they did. So there began a process of expensive escalation all too familiar in our own day. In a clash between mounted forces-as later in tank or in naval warfare- advantage came from a combination of range, protection, and speed. Range came from longer and thus heavier lances. Protection was provided by armour. In the first instance this consisted of a coat of mail reaching from neck to knee; an expensive item of equipment and, after the horse itself, the knight's most valuable possession. Speed had to be balanced, in the horse, against the weight necessary to bear an increas- ingly heavy load; so horses were specially bred for their carrying and staying power and the momentum they could engender in the charge. For an extended campaign, more than one such horse was necessary, and anyhow the knight needed help in manipulating and carrying his growing impedimenta -lance, battle-sword, helmet, shield. At the very least he needed a shield-bearer, escuyer, esquire; probably a groom as well; a more lightly mounted horseman to scout and skirmish for him; and one or two foot soldiers to stand guard. So the single knight expanded into a 'lance', a team of half a dozen men, like the crew of some enormous battle