of that warrior class-a few hundred families constantly intermarrying and as constantly reinforced by fresh recruits-were to retain the landed dominance of Europe until the sixteenth century, political dominance until the eighteenth, and traces at least of social dominance until our own day. 'To bear arms', to have a crest on one's helmet and symbols on one's shield instantly recognizable in the heat of battle, became in European society for a thousand years a symbol of nobility. For what it is worth it still is. But in the Middle Ages it was a symbol of function and available to all who performed that function. The nobility was not yet a close hereditary caste; war was still a career open to the talents. But having achieved nobility through military prowess, the man-at-arms was expected to comport himself according to a certain code of conduct. Very rapidly the warrior function became enhanced with a dimension of semi-numinous cere- mony. Much of the 'Middle Ages' is still seen through the distorting lenses of fifteenth century legend, which cast upon the whole world of 'chivalry' a golden and fictitious glamour, a sunset glow from a consciously disappearing society.3 But the concept of 'chivalry' itself, which was in essence simply the behaviour of chevaliers or knights, was certainly older-as old at least as the troubadours whose poetry in the dawn of European literature in the twelfth century hymned the virtues not only of courage but of honour, gentleness, courtesy and, by and large, chastity. The chevalier had to be not only sans peur but sans reproche. Knighthood was a way of life, sanctioned and civilized by the ceremonies of the Church until it was almost indistinguishable from the ecclesiastical 5 orders of the monasteries. Indeed in the twelfth century military orders-the Templars, the Knights of St. John, the Teutonic Knights-were established in conscious imitation of the monastic foundations. The sword-belt and spurs set the knight apart as distinctivel