d the ranks of the archers and enabled the men-at-arms to close for hand-to-hand fighting on equal terms. More generally the kings of France developed a train of siege artil- lery before which the castles protecting the lands of the English crown in France crumbled into heaps of stones. The English military dominance which characterized Europe at the end of the fourteenth century had fifty years later completely dis- appeared; and the archers of Crecy and Agincourt were looked on as a historical curiosity. The future was to lie with foot soldiers of another kind. The simplest weapon with which a man on foot can be armed against cavalry is a spear; and if the spears are long enough, and the ranks are dense enough, and the morale of the men is high enough, such a formation can be almost invincible unless it can be broken up by some kind of bombardment. The Macedonian phalanx, after all, was the first infantry formation of which we have record. The supremacy of cavalry in the Middle Ages had been as much moral and social as technical. Developed because of its mobility, endowed with a total social and economic dominance, it had for centuries a virtual monopoly of military activity. Foot soldiers were simply despised auxiliaries. But the limitations on its effectiveness which had appeared in the thirteenth century when the house of Plantagenet tried to extend its rule into the mountains of Wales became yet more evident a hundred years later when the house of Austria tried to do the same in the mountains of Switzerland. 15 The original weapon of the Swiss mountaineers was not the pike which made them famous, but a simple axe, a halberd some eight foot long, with which they slaughtered the Austrian knights, hacking through their armour, not only when they trapped them in the defiles at Morgarten in 1315, but in the open field at Laupen in 1339 and Sempach in 1386; which bears out the view that the revival of infantry was due far more to moral, and thus social, factors than