to help Spain dominate Europe for a generation and to transform the Western economic system. The fleets which ferried this treasure back to Europe tanta- lized Spain's enemies for the best part of a hundred years; not simply because of the tempting prize they offered in them- selves but because to intercept them seemed the obvious way of slicing the Spanish economic jugular vein. This was the strategy so eloquently urged on Elizabeth by Hawkins and Essex: 'The hurt that our State should seek to do him [the King of Spain]' urged Essex, 'is to intercept his treasures, whereby we shall cut his sinews and make war on him with his money.'5 But this was very much more easily said than done. The Dutchman Piet Heyn did indeed have a well- deserved stroke of luck when in 1628 he surprised and cap- tured the entire flota at Mantanzas, thus ruining Spanish credit in Europe and wrecking her Caribbean trading system for years. But apart from that, against the assiduous professional care which the Spaniards took to safeguard their treasure, the sporadic, haphazard, ill-planned, and ill-fated attempts by a whole succession of miscellaneous sea-dogs from Hawkins on- ward proved in vain. The treasure fleet was to fall again only thirty years later to the superior professional planning and the organized naval power of Admiral Robert Blake in 1657. The real profit in the West Indies lay in smuggling and piracy. The privateers of the sixteenth century virtually institu- tionalized themselves in the Caribbean in the seventeenth, trading and raiding indiscriminately under any flag that came in handy. The first English and French settlements in the Caribbean were simply bases from which their privateers could operate. The Dutch provided them with naval equip- ment, technical advice, and a guaranteed market for their goods. The English and the French also established themselves further north in Canada, New England, and Newfoundland, and their disputes in these bleak latitudes added further