s men more surely than courage, and you will succeed with less risk than by fighting. But', he went on, 'since it is very rare that a war is ended by the capture of a depot and matters are only decided by great battles, it is neces- sary to use all these means to attain this object'. Indeed, he wrote, 'War is decided only by battles and is not finished except by them. Thus they have to be fought, but it should be opportunely and with all the advantages on your side . . . . The occasions that can be procured are when you cut the enemy off from his supplies and when you choose favourable terrain'.4 These quotations indicate something of the nature, problems, and objectives of eighteenth-century strategy. The problem of keeping an army some 70,000 strong provided with a continu- ous flow of food, fodder, and ammunition as it moved through hostile country was the first which the general had to learn to master, and many never got beyond that. No campaign could be opened until sufficient supplies for the season had been accumulated in the frontier fortresses; and since fodder for horses and mules constituted a major need of armies on the move, no move could be made until the end of the spring. The speed of any advance was then limited not only by the distances which heavily-laden troops could be expected to march over bad roads in a single day, but by the rate at which magazines could be built up along the lines of communication in their rear and the time which supply convoys took to move from base to magazine and from magazine to the front. It is indeed at this time that such expressions as base, flanks, lines of com- munication, interior and exterior lines began to enter the military vocabulary. Within a few days at most the advancing army would come  WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY 72 THE WARS OF PROFESSIONALS upon an enemy fortress, and the commander had to decide to bypass it or to besiege it. A siege might take all summer; but to leave the fortress in his rear, a constant t