WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY MICHAEL HOWARD UPDATED EDITION 'an essential introduction' Sunday Times  War in European History Sir Michael Howard is Emeritus Professor of Modern History at the University of Oxford. His publications include The Franco-Prussian War (1961), which won the Duff Cooper Memorial Prize, Grand Strategy, which was volume 4 in the United Kingdom History of the Second World War (1971), which won the Wolfson Foundation History Award for 1972, The Lessons of History (1991), and many others. He has held the Chair of War Studies at King's College, London, the Chichele Chair of War and the Regius Chair of Modern History at Oxford, and the Robert A. Lovatt Chair of Military and Naval History at Yale.  MICHAEL HOWARD War in European History Praise for War in European History: 'Wars have often determined the character of society. Society in exchange has determined the character of wars. This is the theme of Michael Howard's stimulating book. It is written with all his usual skill and in its small compass is perhaps the most original book he has written. Though he surveys a thousand years of history, he does so without sinking in a slough of facts and draws a broad outline of developments which will delight the general reader.' AJ P Taylor, Observer 'Michael Howard ... shows that he can spread his range of historical vision as far as an eagle surveying a mountain chain. He covers, in fewer than 150 pages of text, warfare over a thousand years; and he covers it comprehensively, without try- ing to be encyclopaedic. He has the true historian's gift for combining the general view and the illuminating detail ... This is a book that, for all its brevity, broadens and deepens our understanding of how the world we live in came to be the shape it is.' The Economist 'It is, at one and the same time, the plain man's guide to the subject, an essential introduction for students, and in its later stages a thought-provoking contribution.' Sunday Times OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRE