long lines of riflemen as had always been habitual, but as small groups of 'storm troops' armed with mortars, light machine-guns, and grenades, by-passing strong-points and penetrating wherever they found weakness, operating with an independence and flexibility such as had hardly been seen in Europe since the skirmishers in the early campaigns of the French Revolution. But the value both of armoured fighting vehicles and of these storm units was limited once they outran their communications and their artillery cover; the first dependent on highly vulnerable field-telephone lines, the second on field guns which had to be moved up over a devastated battlefield and re-ranged for new targets. It was practical problems such as these that made armies between the wars reluctant to adopt the more ambitious ideas of such prophets of armoured warfare as J. F. C. Fuller and B. H. Liddell Hart in England, Charles de Gaulle in France, Heinz Guderian in Germany, and Marshal Tukhachevski in the Soviet Union. The pictures which these thinkers painted of entire divisions composed of tanks breaking through enemy defences, and surging through the gaps in an 'expanding torrent' to overwhelm the nerve centres in the rear were exhilarating, but they left a large number of questions un- answered. How were these units to keep in touch with their rear? How were they to be kept supplied? What about their heavy fire support? Why should they not be surrounded and cut off? If tanks could make a breach in a front, could not tanks used in a counter-attack just as effectively seal it? Technological development helped to solve some of these problems : but for the development of radio communications,  132 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE TECHNOLOGISTS for example, such mobile warfare would have been out of the question. But so sceptical was the High Command even of the German Army that it needed the personal intervention of Hitler to initiate the development of the first Panzer Divisions in 1