non almost until our own days; if one considers the acti- vities of the Union Minière in Katanga, indeed, to well within our own days. But by the eighteenth century the warlike activities of these concerns, like those of small-scale privateers, were increasingly subordinated to, and dependent on, state control. The navies of the European powers had become entirely professional, 53 their ships built in royal dockyards, commanded by full-time regular officers, their types categorized and specialized, their activities co-ordinated and controlled in accordance with centrally-planned strategies. Certainly a vital element in those strategies was always the restriction of the trade of the enemy to the benefit of one's own : trade protection and blockade was always to occupy the bulk of the Royal Navy's time and attention. But one cannot for that reason class the great naval struggle between France and Britain which lasted with few interruptions from 1741 until 1815 as just another 'war of the merchants'. Nor did such men as Boscawen and Hawke, Rodney and Nelson think of themselves as mercenaries hiring their services to the state and getting a cut of the proceeds, even though 'prize money' remained a valued part of naval emoluments. They were, or saw themselves as, professional naval officers; and what they were, or thought they were fighting for, was something which they called their 'country': its prestige, its wealth, its greatness, its power. By the end of the eighteenth century professionalism and patriotism had become major elements in wars between the states of Europe.  4 The Wars of the Professionals By the eighteenth century European wars were being conducted by professional armed forces of a kind with which we would be familiar today. Their officers were not primarily members of a warrior caste fighting from a concept of honour or of feudal obligation; nor were they contractors doing a job for anyone who would pay them. They were servants of the state who were gu