e necessary by the increasing calibre and range of guns which could be mounted as ships increased in size; guns which, because they were too heavy to be mounted to fire broadside, were housed centrally in turrets with a traverse of up to 180°, and developed ranges of up to 20,000 yards. Progress from the sailing ship of the line to the ironclad man-of-war was marked by chaos in design. The Russians designed an entirely circular ship. One British model which tried to combine iron, steam, and a full rig of sail capsized and sank with all hands. And it was marked also by great and understandable nervousness. The Russians had shown at the outset of the Crimean War that ironclads firing shell could destroy an entire fleet of wooden sailing ships, and the famous encounter in 1862 between the two ironclads, the Merrimac and the Monitor, in Hampton Roads during the American Civil War led British publicists to argue that virtually the whole of the Royal Navy had now to be considered obsolete. So the last half of the nineteenth century saw a frantic competition between the British on the one hand and their chief imperial rivals, the French and the Russians on the other-a competition in size of guns, thickness of armour, and speed. At the very end of the century the Germans joined in  WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY 124 THE WARS OF THE TECHNOLOGISTS the race with all the power of the most highly developed industry in Europe behind them. Within five years of their doing so, at the Battle of Tsushima in 1904 the Japanese, by destroying the entire Russian fleet, gave an alarming illus- tration of the fate which awaited any navy which allowed itself to become technologically out of date. The real competi- tion was now, not at sea, but in the dockyards; and Germans and British set to to outbuild one another in the new all big-gun ships, Dreadnoughts and Super-Dreadnoughts, on which command of the sea and with it, so it was thought, command of the world now appeared to depend. The Battleshi