s of siegecraft had been established by such experts as Pedro Navarro and Prospero Colonna. To counter the fire of the defence the besieging force took to the spade. First they sur- rounded the fortress with a containing line of trenches just beyond range of the defending batteries. From this they drove forward trenches in zig-zag lines at angles broad enough to prevent their being enfiladed by the fire of the garrison, and established concealed batteries at intervals along these lines. Once the trenches reached the edge of the glacis, sappers would drive mines under the fortifications and fill them with explosive charges; which the defence would counter with mines of their own. At the climax the besieger would unmask his batteries, concentrating their fire at the point which he had selected for a breach, spring his mines and launch his assault. This climax might come only after weeks of sapping and skir- mishing in the trenches. The experiences of Tristram Shandy's Uncle Toby in Flanders, even those of the armies on the Western Front in the Great War, would not have seemed un- familiar to soldiers who fought in Italy in the sixteenth century or the Low Countries in the seventeenth. This type of trench warfare, tedious, dangerous, murderously unhealthy, was to be the staple fare of the European soldier for over two hundred years. 37 All this-the spread of fortification, the ascendancy of the defensive on the battlefield, the expense of mercenary troops and the professional caution of their leaders-explains why, for over a hundred years, warfare in Europe was so prolonged and so indecisive; smouldering away like wet wood, inflicting continuous damage on the countryside like some chronic disease to which the patient had philosophically if miserably resigned himself, never acting as a catalyst establishing a new pattern of politic order. In the Thirty Years War warfare reached the nadir of brutality and pointlessness portrayed in the etchings of Callot and the black hu