erminated and come to fruition during the nineteenth century in the peaceful and prosperous soil of Britain and North America. In practice the Great War, by destroying so much of the traditional framework of European society, had greatly strengthened the revolutionary forces both of the Left, who believed that the millenium would not come without further armed conflict both national and international, and of the Right, who saw in the continuation of international conflict the necessary destiny of man. The victorious powers were therefore in a position to enforce their ideology only if they had the strength to do so, which in the absence of the United States they had not. As a result, fifteen years after the Versailles settlement, the nations of Europe found themselves once again preparing for war. The kind of war which Fascism glorified was not that fought by masses of hapless conscripts at the behest of generals far behind the lines. It was one which would be conducted by  120 WAR IN EUROEPAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE TECHNOLOGISTS small teams of young heroes, airmen, tank-crews, storm- troops, 'supermen' who by daring and violence would wrest the destiny of mankind from the frock-coated old dodderers round their green baize tables and shape a cleaner, more glorious future. War would, they hoped, in future be a business for élites. They were not altogether wrong. Technology, which in the nineteenth century had made mass participation in war- fare both possible and necessary, was in the twentieth to place increasing power in the hands of highly qualified technicians. The Second World War was to see a curious blend of mass participation and deadly esoteric duels between technological experts. By the second half of the century the peoples of Europe were to be extruded almost totally from conflicts which, if they came, would be fought by comparatively small numbers of military technicians wielding destructive power on an almost inconceivable scale. To understand how this