es of Islam'. Suicide attacks followed against both Israeli and American targets, and culminated in the destruction of the World Trade Center in New York on I September 2001- later known as 9-11-with the loss of nearly 3,000 civilian lives. With that gruesome event, the history of war, and of Europe with it, entered a new and grimmer era. The President of the United States, George W. Bush, instantly responded by declaring a 'War Against Terror' and assumed full war powers to deal with it. Although the blow revealed the vulnerability of the American infrastructure indeed, of the entire Western world-to terrorist attack, it had been struck against a United States more self-confident than at any moment since 1945. Her leader- ship of 'the Free World' was unchallenged. The demise of the Soviet Union had left her supreme as a military power. Technological advance had effected what she termed a 'Revolution in Warfare' in her armed forces She could monitor and intercept the communications of her enemies and pre-empt their movements. Her possession of precision-guided missiles launched from remote platforms enabled her, as their performance against Iraq had already shown, to destroy enemy targets with minimal collateral damage and maximum 'shock and awe'. Within a few weeks she now traced the roots of the terrorist conspiracy to Afghanistan and its borderlands, and dispersed them with a combination of air power, special forces and local auxiliaries. Understandably self-confident, Presi- dent Bush now determined to complete the unfinished business in Iraq. By overthrowing Saddam Hussein and reconstituting Iraq as a Western-oriented democratic state, so his advisers assured him, the United States could now consolidate American dominance in the region and give her permanent ascend- ancy over her adversaries. So in March 2003 United States forces invaded Iraq. Predictably they destroyed Saddam Hussein's army in a matter of days. The peoples of Western Europe had watched the eve