re, and internally reinforced with earthworks. A moat would sur- round the fortress, itself covered by fire and perhaps protected by further outworks; and beyond it lay a smooth bare glacis, over which any assault was exposed to concentrated fire from all the defences. Fortifications of this kind, at first improvised ad hoc by the Italian cities in the last decade of the fifteenth century, spread all over Europe during the next fifty years, a matter as much of civic prestige as of military necessity-especially if Italian experts like Sanmichele or Sangallo could be obtained to de- sign them. Originating as local, civic defences, they began to develop into that system of continuous frontiers which Vauban was to establish in France and Coehorn in the Netherlands in  36 THE WARS OF THE MERCENARIES WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY the seventeenth century. The kings of France turned Metz into a giant fortress which, barring as it did the high road from Germany into the heart of their country, may be seen without exaggeration as the direct ancestor of the Maginot Line. The United Provinces created a barrier of waterways and fortifica- tions behind which they held out against Spain for eighty years and which now constitutes a frontier as unquestioned as the English Channel. These fortresses could not be taken by assault; nor could they be simply by-passed by armies whose supply convoys would then lie at the mercy of their garrisons. They had either to be masked, which meant detaching a force and weakening the main body, or they had to be invested; a process which, even if it did not culminate in an assault, con- sumed a great deal of time-and for sixteenth-century armies time was money, and money meant, or failed to mean, troops. By the end of the Italian Wars in 1529 the broad outlines of siegecraft had been established by such experts as Pedro Navarro and Prospero Colonna. To counter the fire of the defence the besieging force took to the spade. First they sur- rounded the fortre