Y 72 THE WARS OF PROFESSIONALS upon an enemy fortress, and the commander had to decide to bypass it or to besiege it. A siege might take all summer; but to leave the fortress in his rear, a constant threat to his com- munications, was out of the question unless he detached enough forces to 'mask' it. A few such detachments left his main force weakened and at the mercy of the enemy army. Only a daring commander who carefully calculated the risks involved and trained his troops to rapid marching could hope for decisive results within the few months at his disposal before the autumn rains made the roads impassable. Most thought themselves lucky if they could conduct one or two successful sieges and win a favourable position from which to begin their campaign the following year. To pile up such minor successes until their aggregated weight and financial exhaustion com- pelled the adversary to make peace seemed preferable to staking all on a battle in which advantages accumulated over several years might be thrown away in as many hours; especially since the political objectives for which the wars were fought were seldom such as to justify such bloody solutions. Armies in Europe by the later eighteenth century thus concerned themselves predominantly with problems of siege- craft, fortification, marches, and supply; on all of which subjects an enormous literature proliferated. They became, in Clausewitz's words, like 'a State within a State, in which the element of violence gradually faded away'. Most of their time was passed in profoundest peace. Even during wartime they campaigned for only four or five months of the year. To the outside world they were symbols of state power. For themselves they were a self-contained universe, a sub-culture with its own routine, its own ceremonies, its own music and dress and habits; that whole tedious but obsessive way of life known as 'soldiering' which has survived in the British army down to our own day. In their activities, either i