of military reconquest, using methods that only further antagonized the population. But the Vietminh under a brilliant political leader Ho Chi Minh and an outstanding general, Vo Nguyen Giap, not only successfully undermined French political control of their territory but imposed a crushing defeat on the French army itself at Dien Bien Phu in 1954. The French then abandoned what had always been domes- tically a highly unpopular war, leaving the Americans to carry on the struggle for another twenty years.  140 EPILOGUE EPILOGUE The French ordeal was not yet over. The revolutionary turmoil had spread to their possessions in North Africa; and although Vietnam might be aban- doned, lying as it did on the other side of the world, Algeria with its large indigenous French population could not. Nor was Algeria a colony: it was integrated as a department into the domestic administration of France herself. Rebellion had flared up there within a few weeks of the ending of the Second World War, and after the defeat in Vietnam it greatly intensified. The French army had learned its lessons in Vietnam and devised sophisticated techniques of 'counter-insurgency'; but they did not work. For one thing the French government could not promise independence at the end of the road without antagonizing the French population of Algeria and causing political upheaval in France. For another, the brutality of their methods created unrest, not only at home, but in the army itself among conscripts, who had not been used in Vietnam. The war spiralled down into depths of bitterness from which it was only rescued in 1962 by the ruthlessness of Charles de Gaulle; although France nearly collapsed into civil war in the process. It should be mentioned for the sake of completeness that Belgium aban- doned her colonial possessions in the Congo in 1960, leaving a chaos to be sorted out by the United Nations, while Portugal relinquished her territories in Mozambique and Angola, the oldest European colonie