hich must find expres- sion in new kinds of military organization, new styles of war. One of their spokesmen was the Comte Jacques de Guibert, whose Essai générale de tactique was published in 1772 and opened with a scathing attack on the contemporary conduct of war. We open our campaigns with armies that are neither adequately recruited nor properly paid. Whether they win or lose, both sides are equally exhausted. The National Debt increases, credit sinks, money runs out. Navies can find no more sailors, armies no more soldiers. Ministers on each side feel it time to negotiate. Peace is made. A few colonies or provinces change hands. Often the cause of the conflict remains unresolved and each party remains sitting among its ruins and busies itself with paying off its debts and sharpening its weapons. But suppose that there should arise in Europe a people vigorous in its genius, its resources and its government; a people in whom austere virtues and a national militia were joined to a settled policy of aggrandisement; one which did not lose sight of its purpose, which knew how to make war cheaply and to subsist on its victories, and was not reduced to laying down its arms through financial need. We would see such a people subjugate its neighbours and overthrow their feeble constitutions as the north wind shakes the tender reeds.5 Guibert saw no prospect of this happening. 'Such a people will not arise', he went on sadly, 'because there is no longer in Europe any nation at once powerful and new. They are all growing alike and corrupting each other'. Guibert died in 1791 ; a year too soon to see his remarkable prophecy beginning to come true. In the last decade of the eighteenth century the framework of European society, social, economic, political, and military, was shaken to its foundations. Eighteenth-century Europe was a system of states whose frontiers were clearly delineated and whose rulers were absolute sovereigns within their own realms. Their mutual relations