re- vealed the topography of the ground through darkness or cloud. Even then the defence developed night-fighters and learned how to confuse the electronic directional signals on which the attack depended. Like war at sea, war in the air became an immensely sophisticated exercise in tactical and technical ingenuity in which the professional fighting men were at least as dependent on the expertise of the scientist as they were on their own skills to carry out their task. It was only in the last years of the war, after a struggle demanding the full participation of the United States as well as the Royal Air Force, that the Allies secured a command of the air over Germany sufficient to enable them to inflict the degree of destruction on the enemy homeland that the prophets of air power had foretold. And even then civilian morale remained intact. The German people went stoically on with their business and obeyed their government until the very end of the war. The impact of technological change on the conduct of war by land was more diffuse. Within a few months of the outbreak of war in 1914 it had been realized that the internal combustion engine might be used to drive fighting vehicles as well as transportation. Within two years the first 'tanks' were in action. 131 But the design and use of these early armoured fighting vehicles was geared to the requirements of trench warfare. They were seen primarily as mobile fire power to help the attack break into the enemy's defensive lines; and once the first tactical surprise was over it was not too difficult to find means of countering them. The most spectacular breakthrough of the war, that achieved by the Germans on the Western Front in March 1918, was not the work of tanks at all, but of infantry. The Germans deployed, not in long lines of riflemen as had always been habitual, but as small groups of 'storm troops' armed with mortars, light machine-guns, and grenades, by-passing strong-points and penetrating wherever they f