my to use up his resources faster than one did oneself. Such was the reasoning behind the German assault on Verdun in 1916, and the justification for the prolonging, if not the initiation, of the British attacks on the Western Front in 1916  114 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE NATIONS and 1917. As one British general put it bluntly, the side with the longest purse would win. 115 Armies were thus no longer the proxies or champions of nations at war. They were instruments through which the belligerents could bleed one another dry of resources and of men. At the same time that other traditional weapon, the naval blockade, had become grimmer in its purpose. Very quickly the major maritime belligerents, Britain and Germany, abandoned restrictions worked out during three hundred years of naval warfare, reconfirmed as recently as the London Convention of 1909, which confined blockade strictly to those resources which enabled belligerents to make war. Or rather, they worked on the assumption that all resources could be, and were, now devoted to the purposes of war. Britain and Germany settled down to impose on one another a reciprocal state of siege. When peace came it was the result not so much of victories in the field as of economic and psychological ex- haustion. hundred years, were swept into limbo in half as many weeks. But the professional military who served these dynasties were not swept away. In some states indeed they assumed political power. In others they placed their expertise at the disposal of the successor régimes. And all of them, once peace came, turned their attention to solving the problem, how wars in the future (if their political masters saw fit once more to resort to them) could be fought more skilfully; less wastefully; above all, more decisively. The burdens which this kind of warfare imposed on the civilian population were accepted without complaint. Immense war loans were raised. Women took the place of men in the factories and the field