cessary part of every serious armed force; and increasingly there were being attached to them contingents of men armed with hand guns, especially the 'hooked' gun, Hackenbüchse or arquebus, which with its suc-  WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY 16 THE WARS OF THE KNIGHTS cessor the musket was to be the infantry's firearm for another two hundred years. Infantry had arrived. So, as we have seen, had artillery, cumbrous great pieces though they were, needing up to forty horses each to draw them. And paradoxically infantry and artillery restored a place on the battlefield to the horse. The infantry whose arrows or tenacity had, from Crecy onwards, made the mounted charge impossible could now be broken up by other infantry or by artillery fire. The charge, properly timed, might still be possible, and even if it was not, cavalry with firearms could now provide mobile fire power. But cavalry, be it noted; not the old chivalry of the feudal host, in which every man charged for himself, concerned as much with personal honour as with victory; but an arm to be combined with other arms, to be disposed of, like other arms, at the will of a commanding general. The transition was to be slow. The French gens d'armes who took part in the Italian Wars between 1494 and 1529 certainly saw themselves in the same light as the chevaliers in the tales of Amadis de Gaul and Ariosto which were their fashionable reading. They tried to revive such anachronisms as single combat, and apparelled themselves more for conspicuous display than for the grim business of war about whose mun- dane and murderous nature infantry and gunners now had no illusions whatever. But elegant anachronism was to remain a characteristic of European cavalry for many centuries yet. Even in our day it has not totally disappeared. But if the French gens d'armes who invaded Italy in 1494 were feudal in their ideology, there was nothing feudal about their economic base. Like the infantry and the gunners they now served purely for pay