, was not to become dominant in Europe. It was an appalling undertaking. The French crown had little control over the heterogeneous provinces which it ruled. It commanded only the nominal allegiance of the quarrelsome grandees whose independent habits had become during the civil wars almost ineradicable. It possessed no civil service, and most important of all, it had no money. Such money as could be made available-and throughout the Thirty Years War it 63 was never enough for more than about 12,000 men-had to go as lump sums to colonels who raised their own regiments, had full responsibility for paying and equipping them, and who as a matter of course cheated both their employers and the men under their command; so that even the tiny forces the French could put in the field continually melted away for lack of pay. Senior officers were aristocrats reluctant to acknowledge any allegiance to the Crown, refused to serve under each others' command and conducted their quarrels flamboyantly in public and on occasion on the battlefield itself. The action of the most eminent of all, the Prince de Condé, who at the height of the war transferred his services from the king of France to the king of Spain, was exceptional, but behaviour of this kind was not regarded as in any way odd or even reprehensible. Inconvenient as it might be, that was the way in which the truly great nobility might be expected to behave. Bankruptcy, indiscipline, and corruption: these were the characteristics of French armies, as of most others, before 1648 -indeed before Louis XIV came to power in 1661. Yet, by 1680 the French forces were nearly 300,000 strong and the wonder of Europe. A few years later they were to hold their own with brilliance and devotion for a quarter of a century against a coalition embracing every major European power. How was this done? Basically it was the work of two outstanding and tireless bureaucrats, Michel le Tellier, who laid the foundations of the work in the 1640s and