ctised the formations, drilled the troops, and actually founded a military academy at Siegen where Protestant noblesse could be educated in the new doctrines, the infrequency of pitched battles gave little chance to try them out in practice. But among Maurice's pupils was a Swedish nobleman, Jacob Delagardie, who became military instructor to the prince who, as Gustavus Adolphus, ascended the throne of Sweden in 1611 and was to spend the remaining twenty years of his life fighting, first his Baltic neighbours and then, when their tentacles began to extend northwards towards his own possessions, the encroaching armies of the Habsburgs. So Gustavus had greater opportunities to put into effect and develop the practices of the Dutch school; and he had a different kind of army to do it with. Feudalism had more or less by-passed Sweden. Among their lakes and forests the Swedes had been able to retain, as an effective form of military organization, that general obligation to military service which the English and the Germans had been forced to abandon in the ninth century before the onslaught of the Norsemen and the Magyars. In the sixteenth century the Vasa dynasty had formalized this into systematic conscription to provide a force capable of sustaining their prolonged campaigns against the Danes and the Poles. So when Gustavus came to the throne he found to hand a national  58 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE PROFESSIONALS army which to contemporary eyes must have looked remark- ably archaic but to ours appears no less remarkably modern. Gustavus turned it into an effective long-serving force. Service lasted for twenty years, but only one man in ten was called on to serve, and the rest were taxed to provide his equipment. So in practice the Swedish army was a force composed of long- serving regular troops. Local communities were made respons- ible for finding their quota of men, but exemptions from service were granted-as under later conscription laws in Europe-to