aw it, with a further forty to pull its ammunition carts. The effect of these lumbering convoys on the movement of armies over the un- surfaced roads of Europe may be well imagined. War in the winter was out of the question. Nor when they reached the battlefield did the guns really earn their keep. Their immobility meant that for maximum effectiveness they had to be drawn up in front of the army, or in the interstices of its formations, to give a single thunderous salvo or 'greeting' to the opposing force. This might indeed be horribly effective on the great squares of infantry, several thousands strong, which were deployed in front of them, and the immediate objective of the Swiss was always to overrun the enemy guns before they could do any serious harm. But with their slow rate of fire and the inaccuracy which resulted from a combination of the recoil and of the 'windage' which gun- founders prudently allowed between the projectile and the barrel, they often did no harm at all. As Machiavelli put it, 'Great Guns do without comparison oftener miss the Infantry than hit them, because the Foot are so low, and the Artillery so hard to be pointed, that if they be placed never so little too high, they shoot over; and never so little too low, they graze and never come near them.' An English writer a hundred years later, in 1604, said the same : 'Great artillery very seldom or never hurt', so long as the infantry 'upon their giving fire do but abase themselves on their knee till the volew be passed.'4 Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden was to change all that, as much else, but throughout the sixteenth century the infantry were to remain indisputably the queen of the battlefield. Small arms were quicker to make their mark. Hand guns were cheaper to produce and easier to use than cross-bows, and though they could not sustain a comparable rate of fire, their killing power against armoured horsemen was not less. Early in the sixteenth century the arquebus gave way to the long, heav