t Gun : cast in bronze in a single piece, capable of bearing far higher charges of explosive and firing heavier calibre of shot. A sixty- pound iron ball fired upward of 300 yards could not only kill men but bring down masts and rigging and smash through decks. Mounted broadside and fired simultaneously they could even sink ships. They were too heavy to mount in the castles, but what need of castles if fire power prevented the adversary from closing and boarding at all? So in the sixteenth century, on sea as on land, fire power began to replace shock in battle. In the seventeenth century, on sea as on land, it was to become dominant. With guns mounted along flush decks, even mer- chantmen could more than hold their own against war galleys whose guns could only be mounted in prow and stern. So for a time the distinction between warship and merchantman almost disappeared. It was to reappear in the eighteenth century when gun power became all important and warships had to crowd on board as many guns as the decks would hold if they were to take their place in the battle line; but in the meantime it was hardly worth putting a ship to sea unless it could both carry a cargo and fight. It was a period when war, discovery, and trade were almost interchangeable terms. It was natural enough that vessels sailing into unknown waters to discover and traffic with unknown peoples should go armed, and equally natural that once the explorers had estab- lished trading posts they should protect them, whether against European rivals or against unpredictable changes of mind on the part of their customers, by establishing forts as well; even  42 WAR IN EUROPEAN HISTORY THE WARS OF THE MERCHANTS where they had no intention of acquiring territory. The Portuguese empire in the East consisted simply of scattered trading posts. But it had to have its communications protected no less than did the Spanish Empire in the New World with its huge inland possessions; and the Portuguese needed this pr