obility (the very name of whose land-the country of castles-is expressive) was notorious even in medieval Europe. In Catalonia, with its easier communications, the Counts of Barcelona were able more effectively to impose subordination on their more distant vassals and, aided by a 9 fanatically militant church, pushed on with the reconquista of central and southern Spain from the Moslems at a steadier and more rapid pace. In Italy urban communities survived among the rural noblesse, impervious to the feudalism spread by the Caro- lingians from Lombardy in the north and later by the Normans from the south; and merchants and landowners, townsmen and peasant, all without discrimination bore arms when threatened by Magyar raids from the north and Moslem raids from the sea. Military service was general. Cities were defended by their own citizen militias. As elsewhere, status was determined by armament, but in Italy armament was deter- mined not so much by tenure as by wealth. By the twelfth century the raiders had been repulsed from the Italian peninsula for good, except for the Normans who had imposed their stern and effective rule in Sicily and southern Italy. But the military habits of five hundred years died hard. The conflict between Pope and Emperor at the end of the eleventh century polarized Italian society in a continuing feud which divided city against city, family against family, in a civil war which provided a paradise for the free-lance soldier of fortune without, providentially, inhibiting the economic growth which made it possible for his employers to go on paying him. In Germany in the Rhine valley feudalism developed as intensively as it did in northern France, and the mystique of Rittertum, knighthood, was as strong as anywhere in Europe. But further east tenure by military service was introduced more slowly, as was mounted warfare. Like their ancestors of Tacitus's day the German tribes of Saxony and Franconia and Swabia remained a free peasantry fighti