mposed of long- serving regular troops. Local communities were made respons- ible for finding their quota of men, but exemptions from service were granted-as under later conscription laws in Europe-to only sons of widows, to men with brothers already serving, to workers in mines and munitions industries, to the nobility (who served as officers anyway), and the priesthood. This army when at home did not receive any pay from the royal treasury but lived, in an orderly and organized way, off the land. When it went abroad it had to be paid, and things became more difficult. Sweden was a poor country and pay rapidly got into arrears. Gustavus in fact found it cheaper to use his own troops for garrison duties at home and to rely on local mercenaries to do most of the fighting. At the time of his death in 1632, of the 140,000 men under his command, rather less than one tenth were actually Swedes, and the rest were provided either by local recruitment in Germany or by such paid associates, part employees, part allies, as Bernard of Saxe-Weimar. But all adopted and were trained in the Swedish system of war, whose effectiveness was revealed when at the battle of Breitenfeld in 1631 the Habsburg forces suffered a cataclysmic defeat which transformed the pattern of power in Europe. Gustavus was to be killed the following year and his armies were thereafter slowly to disintegrate. But he had provided a pattern for the conduct of war to which the states of Europe were to aspire with increasing success for the rest of the century. His long-serving soldiers, both officers and men, were paid, clothed, armed, and equipped by the crown and commanded by the monarch himself or his immediate lieutenants. Disci- pline was severe and enforced by courts martial. Supply and logistics were recognized as a state responsibility, even though it was one that the Swedish state found too heavy to sustain far beyond its own borders; so the Swedish armies were able, at 59 least initially, to move wit