tilted strongly in favour of the offensive, with the mobile pike phalanx, the great guns to blast away opposi- tion, and the revival of cavalry shock action, had within twenty-five years been sharply reversed by the development of fire power on the battlefield. As always happens during such periods, the mobile arm entered the doldrums. Charging cavalry now found itself checked by a hedge of pikes or by trenches and barricades, and was picked off by musketeers. So they transformed themselves from an instrument of shock into one of mobile fire power. At first cavalrymen carried arquebusiers as pillion passengers. Then the development of the wheel-lock made it possible to ride with a firearm already loaded, and the cavalry for a time discarded the arme blanche in favour of the pistol-a weapon effective only if it was fired at five paces range or less. To enable these weapons to be effectively brought into play the cavalry devised the caracole, whereby successive ranks rode up to the enemy line, fired at point-blank range, and wheeled off to left and right. There is little evidence that this manoeuvre ever had very much effect. All this provides additional explanation for the phenomenon which we have already discussed-the virtual disappearance of major battles from European warfare during the century which separated the battle of Mühlberg in 1534 from that at Breitenfeld in 1631. Only the indecisive battle of Nieuwpoort in the Netherlands in 1600, and the all too decisive battle of the White Mountain in 1621 when Bohemia was eliminated as an independent actor on the European stage, stand out as major exceptions. What we do see, and will continue to see for another century or so, is a long succession of sieges, with battle, when it occurred at all, as subsidiary to the major business of investing and relieving fortresses. There was nothing novel about this. The castle had domi- nated medieval warfare, when the only resources available to the besieger were those of classi