ashington this was seen as a catastrophe; but worse was to follow. The Japanese colony on the mainland, Korea, had been divided between American and Soviet occupation forces along the line of the 38th parallel of latitude, and each occupying power created an indigenous regime in its own image. In 1950 141 hostility between them erupted into physical invasion of South Korea by its northern neighbour, whose rulers mistakenly believed that the United States would not be interested. Their patrons in Moscow did nothing to discourage them. The United States successfully appealed to the United Nations to condemn this aggressive war, but their own unprepared forces were almost swept from the peninsula. A brilliant counter-attack under the veteran General Douglas McArthur swept them back again to the Chinese frontier; whereupon the Chinese entered the war and pushed the Americans back to the 38th parallel. The two sides were evenly matched, the command of the air and superior fire-power enjoyed by the Americans and their UN allies (who included contingents from Britain and the Commonwealth) being countered by the greater skill shown by the Chinese in use of ground and their readiness to suffer heavy losses. The campaign was feared by many to be the beginning of World War Three, and might well have been if General MacArthur had had his way and extended the war to China with the use of nuclear weapons. As it was the war was kept limited, and eventually a truce signed at Panmanjom in 1953 brought the fighting to an end. For another two decades the United States continued to see herself in a state of virtual war with China. She supported France in her struggle to retain Vietnam; and when after the French withdrew in 1954 and the country was divided between a communist north based on Hanoi and a Western-oriented regime in the south based on Saigon, she underwrote the authority of the latter. But the Saigon government proved no better at retaining the allegiance of their populatio