lackmail, of which more will be said in Chapter II. In France their activities reached an appalling peak a hundred years later. The Hundred Years War produced the greatest concentration yet seen of these mercenary companies on both sides, both of noble and of base-born soldiers of fortune, and in the intervals of fighting they simply lived off the country- side. From the middle of the fourteenth century until the middle of the 15th, these écorcheurs, as they were called with horrible descriptiveness, roamed France at will, collectively or individually pillaging, raping, and burning. They suspended their activities only during the increasingly brief and irregular periods when they were re-recruited into the service of an authority in a position to provide regular pay. Desperate French kings mounted campaigns in Spain and Hungary simply to get them out of the way. The situation began to improve only at the end of the Hundred Years War when the Crown was able to exploit the despair of the French merchants and obtained the right to levy a special tallage, the taille des gens de guerre, to put the royal forces on a regular basis. By the end of the fifteenth century the taille had become a permanent tax for which the authority of the Estates was no longer required. The original grant was made by the Estates to Charles VII of France in 1439. In 1444 he issued ordonnances whereby a number of the mercenary bands pullulating about the country were taken into the royal service on a permanent basis and used to forcibly disband the rest. There was no question here either of feudal obligation or of contractual 'indenture', with each captain finding and paying his own men in return for a lump sum. All officers were appointed by the Crown (and 19 were thus truly officiers, office-holders) ; all, both officers and men, were directly paid by the Crown; and they resided in certain towns designated by the Crown. They were a fully stipendiary force, though not yet a national one: German