the bugles began to blow in 1914. To suggest, as have some historians, that the frenetic and militaristic nationalism of the early twentieth century was caused by a reactionary ruling class successfully indoctrinating the masses in order to wean their support away from revolution and attract them to the established order is crudely mechanis- tic. It was in fact the most reactionary elements in the ruling class which mistrusted nationalism the most. The ideas of Hegel and Mazzini had a value and an appeal of their own, III and democracy and nationalism fed one another. The greater the sense of participation in the affairs of the State, the more was the State seen as the embodiment of these unique and higher value systems which called it into being, and the greater became the commitment to protect and serve it. Moreover, the Nation appeared as a focus of popular loyalty at a time when the power of organized religion was ebbing. It provided purpose, colour, excitement, and dignity to peoples who had outgrown the age of miracles and had not yet entered that of pop stars. But the Nation could only measure its worth and power against other Nations. However peaceful its purposes and lofty its ideals it became increasingly difficult to avoid the conclusion-and a growing number of thinkers at the turn of the century were making no attempt to avoid it-that its highest destiny was War. This does something to explain the most remarkable phenomena of 1914-the excited crowds filling the boulevards of every major European city, the British volunteers flocking to the recruiting booths so as to get to France before the fun was over, the French St. Cyriens marching into battle in their passing-out uniforms complete with white gloves and pom- poms, the German reservists, university students the previous summer, going singing with linked arms to meet their deaths at the hands of British machine-gunners at Langemarck, the sense almost of ecstasy which emanates from the literature of tha