to World War I. Trenchard's assertions depended upon the unsubstantiated assumption that the British (now meaning the entire nation) would be better able to endure an offensive contest of wills because they would show greater strength of character and staying power than their potential enemies. All would depend on a sheer determination to press home the offensive. In a 1933 lecture Air Commodore Philip Joubert de la Ferte, then Commandant of the RAF Staff College, told his students: 'The outcome lies, as always, in the natural aptitude for fighting, in the leadership, and in the material employed. The nation with the better fighting men, the stouter hearts, the better leaders and equipment will, in the end, outfight the weaker, who will be forced more and more on the defensive ... '64 But this conception becomes problematical when 'stouter hearts' are overemphasized in relation to other things -most especially training and operational planning. Again, Sir John Slessor summed it up aptly and honestly when he wrote in his memoir, 'Our belief in the bomber, in fact, was intuitive- a matter of faith. '65 The idea of 'pushing' the other side onto the defensive was vague, and caused, at times, more than a little confusion both outside and inside the RAF. The RAF's desire to retain flexibility, and its tendency to avoid com­ mitting itself in advance to a specific target set caused concern in the other services. Both the Army and the Navy wondered: (1) if the RAF would support them in war, (2) if the new service intended to do any counterforce work against an opposing air force, and (3) if it intended to bomb civilians indiscriminately. Trenchard attempted to address all these issues in a lecture he gave to the Imperial Defence College in October 1928, but confusion and  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 13 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 103 doubts continued afterwards.66 Trenchard had shown limited interest in co­ operation with the other services, and, as