alized nation is characterized by the great degree of interdependence of its various elements. Certain of these elements are vital to the continued functioning of the modem nation. If one of these elements is destroyed the whole of the economic machine ceases to function ... Against a highly industrialized nation air force action has the possibility for such far reaching effectiveness that such action may produce immediate and decisive results.' 106 There are probably several, mutually-reinforcing reasons why the Air Corps planners took this particular trajectory towards 'selective targeting'. First, it re-emphasised many of the principles which had been used by Gorrell, noted in the Bombing Survey, and subsequently absorbed into the organisational thinking of the Air Service/Air Corps Tactical School. In his 1926 book, Air Warfare, William C. Sherman (formerly of the Air Service Tactical School), wrote, 'Industry consists ... of a complex system of inter­ locking factories, each of which makes only its allotted part of the whole ... Accordingly, in the majority of industries, it is necessary to destroy certain elements of the industry only, in order to cripple the whole. These elements may be called the key plants.' 107 A few years later the 1930 text fQr the 'Air Force' course at ACTS specifically criticised the British in World War I for their 'lack of a predetermined program calculated to destroy by successive raids those industries most vital in prosecuting the war'. The authors of the text explained Trenchard's rationale for dispersing his attacks, but argued that 'his defense was not convincing, except in that he seemed to believe that the bomb was a weapon of moral effect rather than of destruction.' 108 Second, the MacArthur-Pratt agreement of 1931, which divided land­ based and naval aviation between the Army and the Navy, gave the Army an officially-sanctioned, defensive use for long range bombers: defenders of the American coastline. The need to hit a sh