owever. The 'moral effect' argument unquestionably suited his needs at the time. It was, as well, integral to his vocabulary; derived from the professional context in which he worked and fought, it formed a cornerstone of his understanding of the nature of warfare. Throughout the nineteenth century, books and treatises on war devoted considerable attention to the 'moral' factor. Prussian theorist and general Carl von Clausewitz, whose work was read widely in Britain in the early twentieth century, stated, 'Fighting ... is a trial of moral and physical forces through the medium of the latter. '22 Indeed, one might argue  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 5 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 95 that Trenchard was just adding hyperbole to Napoleon's 1808 dictum, 'In war the moral forces are to the physical as three to one.' Prevalent concepts of war-fighting in most European armies prior to World War I were dominated by the 'cult of the offensive,' and the 'psychological battlefield' paradigm.23 These emphasised 'moral qualities,' and held that intangible factors like esprit de corps and willingness to take and seize the offensive were the real keys to an army's performance in war. For instance, in a 1914 volume called Principles of War Historically Illustrated, Major­ General E. A. Altham argued: 'The moral effect of the bayonet is out of all proportion to its material effect, and not the least important of virtues claimed for it is that the desire to use it draws the attacking side on. '24 During the war Field-Marshal Sir Douglas Haig, commander of the British Expeditionary Force, pursued a war-fighting strategy of relentless offensive and attrition which leaned heavily on notions of the superiority of British national character and fighting spirit. Trenchard, a disciple of Haig's with a similar penchant for the offensive, had pursued the RFC's air campaign in much the same way-often accepting very high loss rates among his pilots.25 In addition, Trenchar