ions (Maj.-Gen. P.R.C. Groves) sent to Trenchard's attention a communication from the Foreign Office noting that '. . . the despondency in Germany is at the present moment intense; and that this would be greatly increased by air raids on German towns ... '3' World War I seemed to bear out some of these expectations. Low morale on the French and British home fronts in 1917, the Russian Revolution of the same year, and the German 'collapse' of the following year all appeared to establish a trend that made quite a few military men and politicians uneasy.3' The RAF itself had been brought into existence largely as a result of popular demands for protection and reprisal raids against Germany in the face of the 1917 air attacks on Britain. Besides casualties and an angry population, those raids had caused disruptions in industrial manufacturing and a substantial commitment of resources to the defence of London. 33 After the war ended, the members of the British survey team which examined bomb damage in Germany had no choice but to admit that the physical damage in Germany had been largely unremarkable. As others had done before them, however, they emphasised instead the apparent damage done to German morale by the British air attacks.34 The reports on the British bombing at chemical and munitions manufacturing centers and other other industrial sites consistently argued that the moral effect of air raids was 'con­ siderable'. 35 The survey members especially fastened on the idea that the air raids had taken a toll on worker's nerves; in the case of attacks on blast  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 7 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 97 furnaces, for instance, they were prepared to argue that: 'Had the war continued a few months longer, a more or less total breakdown of labour at several of the works might have been confidently expected. '36 Indeed, speculation and extrapolation were regular features of the reports; the team frequently focused more on what m