he YB-40 - a modified B-17, which proved eventually to be a complete failure. 122 Ideas and Realities: The Early Phase As the German threat loomed ever larger, Britain's Air Ministry began to make detailed plans for coping with it. 'This process', wrote the British official historians, 'certainly brought them down to earth.' 123 As they came face to face with operational realities, they began to move gradually away from the abstract and ethereal tones of the 1920s, and towards more concrete ideas, and greater specificity in targeting. The first major step in the targeting process took place in the autumn of 1937, just as the severe operational limitations of Bomber Command were being laid bare. The Air Ministry sent Bomber Command a list of 13 plans called the WA (Western Air) plans, with orders to evaluate especially the first three for operational feasibility. That  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 25 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 115 year the Treasury finally, if reluctantly, agreed to a National Defence Loan to help cover the costs of rearmament. The plan ultimately favoured by both the Air Ministry and Bomber Command was WAS, an attack on German war industry intended to produce the maximum dislocation of the German war economy. The plan offered the greatest flexibility and possibility to a force that would be working under real operational constraints. 124 Indeed, it was not until the first meeting of the Bombing Policy Sub-Committee (of the Bombing Policy Committee), on 22 March 1938, that the RAF really settled down to think about many of the vital operational issues involved in getting bombs successfully to a target. The committee members expressed the opinion that there was a 'crying need' for a Bombing Development Establishment which could work out many of the scientific problems vital to successful bombing. It was pointed out that a similar proposal had been made at the second, third, and tenth meetings of the Bombing Committee (which ha