g,' and made sure to emphasise it to the audience back  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 36 --- 126 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE home -an audience which. would soon help to decide if the air force deserved to be a separate service. In a December 1944 letter to General 'Hap' Arnold, Chief of Staff of the USAAF, Spaatz wrote: 'We have proven the precision principle in this war. Our precision however is in a relative not a literal sense. We must assume that our enemies will take this lesson to heart ... we must develop bomb sights and bombadiers which, under all weather conditions, cannot only literally drop bombs in a "pickle barrel" but in the correct barrel. ''84 Such capabilities, however, would be achieved by the US Air Force only much later. After the war, both the United States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS), and the British Bombing Survey Unit (BBSU) argued against the utility of targeting civilian morale per se. The USSBS revealed that: heavy bombing was not proportionally more effective than moderate bombing, and sustained heavy bombing led to diminishing returns in morale effects; lowered morale did not necessarily lead to active opposition to the war; and only in the very last stages of the war did it lead to diminished productivity at the workplace. The BBSU final report concluded: 'In so far as the offensive against German towns was designed to break the morale of the German civilian population, it clearly failed. Far from lowering essential war production, it also failed to stem a remarkable increase in the output of armaments.' This view was later supported by the British official history.'" Ultimately, airpower proved to be a tremendously important weapon, but not wholly on its own. Its greatest achievements were those which took advantage of the synergy and interaction of all three services. Air supremacy and the attack on transport and communications targets made possible the Normandy invasion and the progress that the Allied ground forces ma