ing. '57 Besides hyperbole, a key problem with such confident rhetoric was that it was almost completely divorced from the reality of the late 1920s RAF. Labouring under the budgetary contraints influenced by the 'Ten Year Rule', the 1928 RAF had progressed little from a decade earlier, consisting mainly of wooden biplanes with limited ranges and capabilities. The main operational experience of the force derived from aerial policing duties in far­ flung colonial outposts. 'Air control', as it was known, helped to give the RAF a desperately-needed rationale for continued existence and funding, but it did little to help prepare pilots and planners for a war between industrialised states.'" Aside from the temporary flurry of concern over the French air force, the RAF had no real enemy to consider during the 1920s, and there was no change going into the 1930s. Indeed, the very raison d' etre of the RAF was called into question during the Geneva disarmament talks of 1932-34, which focused on banning bomber aircraft. Though the talks failed in the end, the British government had taken them very seriously and had agreed to a good faith moratorium on heavy bomber construction while the conference was in session. 59 Certainly the RAF could not escape its circumstances; the lack of a real threat, the stringent finances, and the anti-military spirit of the day all took their toll on planning and functioning. But these problems were exacerbated by the service's own tendency to downplay genuinely analytical thinking about air warfare, and to tolerate a wide gulf between rhetoric and reality. Instead of fostering critical thinking, the RAF Staff College taught a rather single-minded dogma that students had to internalise even before they matriculated.60 Too often it seemed that more attention was paid to fox­ hunting than to target finding and bomb aiming. While the RAF was not alone in this-Britain's Army suffered similar interwar doldrums- the lack of attention paid to operatio