ed policy of day light penetration'. And he further argued that to be fractious over bombing policy would play right into the hands of navalists like Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Ernest J. King, and might tempt the Americans to focus on the Pacific. 153 At this point Portal followed suit and argued to Churchill that the Americans at least be given a fair trial. He suggested though that the Americans should look into radar navigation and bomb-aiming aids, and 'press on with night adaptation as an insurance'. Though still harbouring grave concerns, Churchill chose to keep quiet for the time being.'54 The Americans were aware of the British doubts; indeed the British press was critical of meagre results from American 'precision bombing' in the fall of 1942. The crisis prompted an aggressive response by the US Air Staff, and, as the American official historians explain, 'a good deal of special pleading was done in behalf of precision techniques, and comparisons were sometimes drawn to the disadvantage of the British doctrine. '155 An American special study of British bombing efforts at Rostock, Cologne and Osnabrtick (dated 19 October) went so far that Major General Ira C. Eaker, head of US VIII Bomber Command, had to distance himself somewhat from its conclu足 sions in an effort at alliance damage control. The study argued in general that British area bombing was unreliable and inefficient, and that 'precision' bombing of selected targets would provide greater economy and concentra足 tion of effort. 156 Ideas and Realities: The Combined Bomber Offensive The issue had to be settled when the Allies met at Casablanca in January 1943 to plan their strategy for the year, and to establish how airpower might best aid in the overall war effort. At the Conference General Eaker lobbied hard for the American case, taking with him a lengthy and detailed memoran足 dum offering seven reasons why it was critical for the Americans to do day足 light bombing, and answering questions li