, a disciple of Haig's with a similar penchant for the offensive, had pursued the RFC's air campaign in much the same way-often accepting very high loss rates among his pilots.25 In addition, Trenchard's experience told him that aircraft operating in support of the ground battle had a strong psychological effect on enemy troops. As head of the RFC he ran constant 'offensive patrols' designed to keep the enemy on the defensive and thus at a 'moral' disadvantage. Taking this principle and applying it to long range operations was not, in the end, a radical departure for him. 26 The war itself had revealed the crucial quality of technical proficiency on the modern, industrial battlefield. But the rhetoric of the moral factor -with its emphasis on the human aspect of battle -lingered. Men like Haig and his former army commander, General Sir Henry Rawlinson, continued to emphasize it in their postwar writings and speeches.27 They believed that their nation had prevailed over the German armed forces and the German nation in an extended contest of will and determination. Indeed, 'moral effect', today expressed and understood in a slightly different way, continues to inform our understanding of combat. In the concluding pages of his well-known book, The Face of Battle, John Keegan wrote: 'Battle ... is essentially a moral conflict. It requires, if it is to take place, a mutual and sustained act of will by two contending parties, and if it is. to result in a decision, the moral collapse of one of them. '28 But this intuitive and simple idea, which is as elusive and unquantifiable as it is powerful and tenacious, gained a life of its own with respect to airpower theory. Its elusive quality certainly served Trenchard's pressing bureaucratic needs, but there was yet an additional advantage which was particularly relevant to strategic bombing. While the 'moral' aspect of war was accepted and established, it also was just then being transformed, intensified, and  File: --- biddle_