ry and industrial installations were only effective after they had become massive, sustained, and relentless. The mistaken assumption that German industry might prove frangible drew heavily upon another mistaken assumption -that in 1939 Germany was fully  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 39 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 129 mobilised and working at full stretch.189 The theory of key nodes proved problematical as well. Only those commodities for which there were no ready substitutes were really candidates for 'key node' status. Electrical power might have been such a target, but it was not pursued sufficiently by either air force. Oil did fit the bill in the end, and helped to bear out the theory of selective targeting, but only in cooperation with pressure exerted by the Allied (especially Soviet) ground armies. All in all, the Anglo-American experience of World War II ought to be cautionary tale for anyone tempted to come to the conclusion that long range bombing is anything less than a profoundly challenging and complex form of warfare. NOTES An earlier version of this essay was delivered to the 1993 annual conference of the Society for Military History, in Kingston, Ontario, Canada. For their comments on previous incarnations of the work, I would like to thank: Stephen Biddle, Eliot Cohen, Lynn Eden, Thomas Griffith, Stephen J. Harris, I.B. Holley, Carl Kaysen, Paul Kennedy, Williamson Murray, Hays Parks, Alex Roland, and Tom Searle. Sebastian Cox of the Air Historical Branch, London, provided assistance and generously shared his knowledge on the subject. George K. Williams of the US Center for Air Force History also gave generously of his time, and made available to me some important documents in his possession. I am grateful to Alec Douglas and Stephen J. Harris of the National Defence Headquarters, Canada, and to Timothy Dube of the National Library of Canada, for giving me access to Canada's excellent collection of documents on British aviat