ultimately bring an enemy state to collapse as its internal demands for protection became increasingly shrill and it was forced further and further on to the defensive.44 This conception tended to conflate moral and material  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 9 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 99 effects, but Trenchard continued to stress the 'moral effect' in his own rhetoric. Trenchard's strategic conception dominated discussions about the content and structure of Britain's home defence air force, the Air Defence of Great Britain (ADGB), which were raised in light of the concocted French air threat of 1923!5 Overruling those who sought an ideal proportion between fighters and bombers, the CAS insisted that the goal of the RAF was to drop the heaviest possible bomb load on the enemy, in order to 'trust their people cracking before ours'. He added that 'though there would be an outcry, the French in a bombing duel would probably squeal before we did. That was the really final thing. The nation that would stand being bombed the longest would win in the end. '46 The ADGB, despite its name, was set up to be a bomber command; it was organized and oriented towards independent strategic bombing. The Head of the RAF remained steadfast, almost obstinate in his views. While in command of the IF he had written to Sykes about overcoming German resistance to the British air offensive. He pointed out, 'The only thing I can do to combat the Huns bombing [British aerodromes] ... is to try to educate everybody to think as I do, i.e. that if we bomb them harder than they do us this is the best and only defence.' In the same letter, however, he discussed increasing German fighter resistance, and inquired into the possibility of using two-seater fighters as escorts, or perhaps using modified bombers for the purpose.47 After the war, though, Trenchard gradually seemed to forget the level of resistance he faced. He eschewed the construc­ tion of escorts in order to maximis