US survey members (divided into 12 teams of one officer and two enlisted men each) noted the material and moral effects of bombing in the cities and factories they examined. They also noted the cost devoted to defensive efforts in these areas. The individual reports on cities and factories made frequent reference to the 'moral effect' of bombing. In addition, the 'Narrative Summary' section devoted to 'Moral Effect' began with the state­ ment: 'It is certain that air raids had a tremendous effect on the morale of the entire people.' The authors pointed out that the enemy's factories were running 24 hours a day, so that losses in production by workers could not be easily made up. With reference to German iron and steel used in the manu­ facture of war material, they argued: 'The enormous expense of maintaining balloon barrages, home defense flights, and anti-aircraft artillery must be an  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 18 --- 108 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE indication that the material was needed as well as that the popular clamor for protection was great. '92 In the section of the 'Narrative Summary' called 'Criticisms of Bombing in the Present War', however, the Americans were quite critical of the British efforts. Making a point that many on the Air Staff in London would have agreed with, the Americans claimed that the greatest failing of the British bombing was 'the lack of a predetermined program carefully calculated to destroy by successive raids those industries most vital in maintaining Germany's fighting forces.' The US survey stated further that, 'Evidence of this is seen in the wide area over which the bombing took place as well as the failure of crippling, beyond a limited extent, any one factory or industry. '93 The survey also noted dissent among the British ranks regarding targeting policy, and pointed out that 'these [British] officers ... did not believe they were getting the best results possible and that while the wish ... to "bomb somethi