ing results, published nearly a year after the survey results were submitted. That report, 'Results of Air Raids on Germany Carried out by the 8th Brigade and Independent Force' (A.P. 1225, 3rd ed.) came from a staff headed by Major A. R. Boyle who had been responsible for producing two wartime reports, also designated A.P. 1225, analysing the progress of British bombing.40 Both of those earlier reports, which had relied heavily on captured letters and intelligence agents' reports, had emphasised the moral effect of bombing. 41 The Interpretation of Experience While RAF wartime and postwar rhetoric was influenced by its organiza­ tional and bureaucratic context, it was also shaped by genuine perceptions of the day -all of which were oriented to the future, and all of which seemed to be heavily conditioned by expectations about the behaviour of civilians in war. The bombing surveys repeatedly mentioned the defensive measures  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 8 --- 98 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE Germany took in response to the British bombing campaign. The British were impressed with the level of defensive effort their rather modest bombing offensive provoked in Germany. In an interview with the mass circulation Daily Mail which was printed on 21 September 1918, Trenchard told his readers (in his inimicable style): Another gain from raiding is the demand it makes on the enemy's defences. Every big German town hit at once screams for assistance. In this way hundreds of guns, searchlights, planes, and thousands of men have been drawn away from the front to meet the occasional attacks of a comparatively small number of assailants. It would be no exaggeration to say that every unit of the Independent Force immobilises at least 50 times its fighting value from the ranks of the enemy.42 To a great extent the British projected their own behaviour under enemy bombardment upon their German adversaries. During 1914-18 the British government and military had been impresse