vantage which was particularly relevant to strategic bombing. While the 'moral' aspect of war was accepted and established, it also was just then being transformed, intensified, and  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 6 --- 96 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE extended due to the changing nature of warfare. In the era of 'total war,' con­ flict would no longer be confined to armies on a battlefield -a point that long range bombing had served to underscore. Already in the years before the Great War, military men had begun to concern themselves increasingly with the behaviour of those on the homefront in a future conflict. Such concern was exacerbated by the class tensions caused by industrialisation itself. If the privations of warfare could be brought directly onto the heads of the working masses, what would the outcome be? How would 'undisciplined' popula­ tions, alienated already by the nature of their work and their uncomfortable lives, fare in the face of the burdens of modem warfare?29 Air plans drawn up in London in the latter stages of the war often revealed a chauvinistic intent to exploit these 'vulnerabilities' within the enemy home front, especially among the working classes. Major Tiverton, an early advo­ cate of bombing for material effect, nonetheless felt that it would be possible to apply collateral pressure to the German 'operatives'- those in the factories who carried out the work of industrial manufacturing. One memorandum on the use of V 1500 bombers explained that ' ... the moral and political results which could be obtained by even six "V" type Handley Page machines would be ... of a "disintegrating" character, i.e. they would tend to set the capitalist and the masses against the military power. '30 On 12 September 1918 the Director of Flying Operations (Maj.-Gen. P.R.C. Groves) sent to Trenchard's attention a communication from the Foreign Office noting that '. . . the despondency in Germany is at the present moment intense; and that this would