tic oil plants revealed that only 2.2 percent of the bombs dropped hit 'damageable' buildings and equipment; no less than 87.1 percent 'were spread over the surrounding countryside'- out­ side the perimeter of the plants. 172 By September 1944 Bomber Command had not only become a formidable weapon, but also an accurate one. Britain's wartime attention to and invest­ ment in navigation and bomb aiming aids paid off considerably; Lancasters, Halifaxes and Mosquitos were able to hit a range of military targets with increasing accuracy at night and in cloud cover. Indeed, in this period the RAF's accuracy was very often better than the USAAF's. Harris was thus in a position to join -and to enhance significantly -the air campaign against selective military targets. But he failed to take full advantage of the oppor­ tunity. Many in the Air Staff had by this time returned to the conclusion that selective attacks were in fact the best course to pursue. But the AOC-in-C  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 34 --- 124 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE Bomber Command held fast to his belief that there was no magic thread around which the web had been spun. As early as October 1942 Harris was stressing emphatically to Portal that he did not wish to endure the 'Panacea Target mongers and Diversionists' who were always coming up with new ways to draw his force away from what he considered to be its primary mission: 'attempting to make life intolerable for Germans in Germany'. 173 In 1944 he was completely unwilling to accept a new set of priorities. Portal tried, through a series of letters, to bring Harris round to increasing Bomber Command's attacks on the German oil supply. When in January 1945 Harris threatened to resign, Portal finally backed down.174 This issue was all the more sensitive because, as time went on, the Air Staff became increasingly concerned about how far it had strayed from its initial intent to bomb only military targets narrowly defined. Certainly they belie