as the only feasible use to which Bomber Command could be put. As this situation and its consequences sank in, arguments increased for using bombers to attack German morale. While serving as Chief of Bomber Command, Portal concluded that German actions in the war had justified the destruction of German cities, and that such a course might, under the circum­ stances, be the most profitable one to follow. The Ministry of Information had reported in December 1940 that 'the Germans ... will not stand a quarter of the bombing that the British have shown they can take.' And Trenchard (now Lord Trenchard) weighed into the debate in spring 1941, making a case for area attacks. Using some of his infamous mathematics to support the notion that no bomb is wasted on a city, he argued that 'ninety-nine percent of the bombs dropped on cities would contribute directly to the destruction of German morale.' He argued further that the attacks should be made every night -even if only one bomber could be sent over. On 2 June 1941 Trenchard offered his views at a meeting held by the Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal, to discuss bombing policy. He argued exactly what he had argued in 1918 and 1928, pointing out that everything turned on 'the difference between the German and British mentality'. He said that reports from a wide variety of sources indicated that the German civil population stood up 'very badly' to the strain of repeated bombing attacks. Undermining German morale, he argued, ought to be Bomber Command's primary aim; he recommended repeated attacks designed to force the popula-  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 27 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 117 tion into air raid shelters, onto the defensive, and into a state of demoralisa­ tion.131 In July Deputy Chief of Staff Air Vice-Marshal Norman Bottomley wrote that the German weak points were morale and transportation, and that recent attacks on cities had had an impact on morale.132 In Oct