kdown of labour at several of the works might have been confidently expected. '36 Indeed, speculation and extrapolation were regular features of the reports; the team frequently focused more on what might have happened (had the bombing continued) than what actually did happen as as result of it. A most vivid example of this tendency to extrapolate came from a separate survey of bomb damage in Belgium, headed by Major E. Childers. After explaining that the bombing in Belgium had been 'at best a secondary and very imperfect method of attack', the authors nonetheless concluded that, 'It is a simple deduction from experience to say that with the progress in air science that seems likely to continue, it will be possible in a few years . . . for a powerful military nation . . . to obliterate cities in a night and produce the stunning moral effect necessary to victory. '37 The survey team in Germany sometimes had to cope with evidence which undermined their thesis. For instance, German workers (including women, who were not choosing between factory work and the battle front) could be persuaded to stay on the job by salary increases. In addition, some of the factory directors interviewed claimed that strategic bombing had no moral effect, and indeed was simply wasteful - and criminal to boot. One even explained that when the need arose to enter shelters, the workers entertained themselves by dancing and enjoying other amusements.'" While the RAF team acknowledged these incidents, it attempted to downplay their signifi­ cance where possible. In particular they sought to buttress their assertions about the 'moral effect' of bombing.39 Evidence which cast doubt on the significance of the moral effect of bomb­ ing was subsequently left out of the Air Ministry's final report on bombing results, published nearly a year after the survey results were submitted. That report, 'Results of Air Raids on Germany Carried out by the 8th Brigade and Independent Force' (A.P. 1225, 3rd ed.) c