xpectations had been fueled for a long time by popular science fiction writing on the probable effects of aerial bombing, and had revealed themselves dramatically on occasion, as in 1909 with the 'Phantom Airship Scare'." Aerial bombing engendered a kind of primal fear based on the notion that in the wars of the future there would be no place to shelter or to hide. This was fueled and exacerbated by the assumption that gas (chemical) bombs would be widely used. The public debate on airpower became inextricably intertwined with the military and political debate. In their popular writings in the 1920s, Captain Basil Liddell Hart and Colonel J. F. C. Fuller argued that, in the next war, airpower might indeed have a devastating impact on civil will. For instance, in his 1925 book called Paris or the Future of War, Liddell Hart explored ways in which an enemy nation could be subdued, not by deadly frontal assaults on his armies, but by locating and exploiting his weak points." The book, which was placed on the RAF recommended reading list, argued that with the advent of aircraft, 'boundless possibilities' arise for striking directly and immediately 'at the seat of the opposing will and policy'. Using a metaphor from biology, Liddell Hart explained that: 'A nation's nerve-system, no longer covered by the flesh of its troops, is now laid bare to attack, and, like the human nerves, the progress of civiliza­ tion has rendered it far more sensitive than in earlier and more primitive times. '53 Even though the working classes had proven themselves willing to fight throughout the Great War, questions about the steadfastness of the masses continued to be raised, and these were usually linked to concerns about social contentment and the possibility of large-scale political change. 54 Even events like the 1926 general strike and the 1929 financial collapse seemed to cast a shadow on the idea that governments could control the masses. The atmosphere of civil-military tension arouse