ce against the city of Berlin in February 1945.142 The authors of A WPD/1 also suggested that escort fighters might be necessary to protect the bombers. But the authors misjudged the type of aircraft that would be required when they called for specifications to be drawn up for a large, heavily-gunned, two-seater type with a range equal to the bombers to be escorted, and with armour to protect each of the crew members. 143 Once the Americans were drawn into the war, the two allies had to form some basis for cooperation. 144 By early 1942 they were heading in two different directions, and these had to be reconciled -or at least dealt with. In the event, the process would prove to be rather tumultuous. The British, due to their own grim experience, had no faith in the Americans' ability success­ fully to pursue a daylight precision campaign in the skies over Germany. The Americans, for their part, had no interest in changing their plans. In a paper delivered at the US Air Force Academy in 1968, RAF official historian Noble Frankland argued that there were three reasons why the Americans clung so tenaciously to daylight bombing of selected military targets even though there was plenty of evidence to indicate that it was a problematical strategy. He said that: ( 1) they believed that the B-17 was better suited to daytime operations than to night-time ones; (2) they were less than impressed with the British effort so far; and (3) they were simply determined to run their own air force and to operate independently. 145 He was quite right on all counts, though point three deserves elaboration. Americans have always liked to do their own thing, and the USAAF posed no exception to the rule -fixated as it was on the postwar fight for organisational independence. But there was more at work than national assertiveness. American airmen had genuinely convinced themselves that the theory they had developed at ACTS was going to work. They felt that they had tapped into a bit of geniu