diminishing German oil supplies, and Harris sought to maintain the focus on area attacks -which he still believed would lead to general collapse. In the end there was no real con­ sensus, and the effort of the forces was dissipated among these three target sets. Over the spring and summer General Spaatz had become convinced that he had the key to victory in his clutches. To Spaatz, German synthetic oil looked to be the long sought 'key node'-a real bottleneck in Hitler's war machine. His feelings were supported by information derived from Ultra intelligence, indicating that the Germans were indeed beginning to suffer critical short­ ages. There was no easy substitute for it, and the pressure on the Axis increased as Soviet armies advanced west and attained the fuel sources of Eastern Europe. When they were not engaged in tactical missions, Spaatz's bombers were directed to strike oil targets as relentlessly as possible over the summer. Spaatz was working against time. He knew that his bombers, which had never adapted well to radar aids and relied on visual bombing methods for real results, would be handicapped once the autumn weather began to close in.'7' Even after long-range escorts facilitated daylight raids into Germany, American planners still faced the considerable problem of achieving anything approximating 'precision' bombing. Large formations of bombers covered large pieces of real estate -and all that land underneath came under attack when the lead plane released its bombs, cueing all the others. In addition, the consistently cloud-shrouded weather of northern Europe forced USAAF crews to rely on blind-bombing techniques -which they never liked -far more than they would have preferred. A careful study of 57 American 'precision' strikes on three separate synthetic oil plants revealed that only 2.2 percent of the bombs dropped hit 'damageable' buildings and equipment; no less than 87.1 percent 'were spread over the surrounding countryside'- out­ side the per