estions regarding 'precision' bombing were asked or anticipated. Like the RAF, the Air Corps seemed to be balanced on the cusp between the old world and the new. For instance, students at ACTS in 1933-34 were required to devote 100 hours of their training program to horsemanship, while only 25 hours were required for air logistics.''6 Perhaps the toughest interwar issue the American bomber advocates had to face was that of getting through to the target. Stanley Baldwin's declaration that 'the bomber will always get through' had not always held sway in the United States, where, during the 1920s pursuit (fighter) aviation had received both attention and respect. In 1930 ACTS still taught that bombers opposed by enemy fighters would require the support of escort fighters. Only a few years later, though, this attitude had changed. The demise of the fighter escort concept in America took place simultaneously with the development of sophisticated, fast bomber aircraft, and the rise of the precision bombing theory at ACTS. The bomber advocates argued frequently that the sleek, fast, high-altitude bombers would be able to use formation flying techniques and their own guns to penetrate -without prohibitive losses -to the targets they would need to reach. ACTS emphasised daylight bombing, when bomber crews would have the best conditions for achieving 'precision'.117 Not everyone at ACTS took to the idea of bomber invincibility however. Captain Claire L. Chennault, who taught pursuit aviation at the School in  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 24 --- 114 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE 1931-36 was the bomber advocates' most outspoken opponent. He felt that bombardment ought not to be made, 'the first exception to the ancient principle that 'for every weapon there is a new and effective counter weapon' .118 He argued that by using defense warning systems which relied on improved radio technologies, fighter aircraft could intercept hostile bombers. Finally, he felt that the ex