g, but there was much work to be done -and many calculations now to be made. To his credit, he set out to undertake this work with relentless energy.  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 16 --- 106 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE The Development of US Air Service Thought In World War I the US Air Service had no direct experience of strategic bombing to influence its postwar behaviour. The armistice occurred before the United States could field the aircraft needed for any sort of long-range bombing campaign. 82 The Americans did draw up plans for such a campaign, however, so it is possible to know what they were thinking with respect to what they called 'strategical bombing'. In November 1917 Lieutenant Colonel Edgar S. Gorrell, head of the Technical Section of the US Air Service, was tasked with developing a plan for a future American bombing offensive against Germany. Turning to his British colleagues for help, Gorrell produced a plan that relied very heavily on Tiverton's September 1917 plan, which divided German industrial and military targets into four geographical groups. Much of what came to be known as 'the Gorrell Plan' was, in fact, copied verbatim from the Tiverton plan.83 Indeed, the plan later hailed as the earliest statement of the American conception of airpower was based almost entirely on the thinking of Tiverton, who, in 1917, was primarily interested in the material and moral effects of bombing specific military-industrial targets, and in developing rational, analysis-based methods of target selection. 84 In the opening section of the paper, Gorrell framed the argument, and defined the object of 'strategical bombing' as follows: 'to drop aerial bombs upon the commercial centers and the lines of communications in such quantities as will wreck the points aimed at and cut off the necessary supplies without which the armies in the field cannot exist. '85 He saw long-range bombing as a kind of deep interdiction which would keep needed material out of th