fective counter weapon' .118 He argued that by using defense warning systems which relied on improved radio technologies, fighter aircraft could intercept hostile bombers. Finally, he felt that the exercises of the early 1930s, which allegedly 'proved' that bombers were dominant over fighters, had been rigged and were dis­ ingenuous.119 Chennault went toe to toe on this issue with Lieutenant Colonel H. H. Arnold, who commanded 1st Bombardment Wing, and later became Commander-in-Chief of the USAAF in World War II. In exercises at Fort Knox in 1933, Chennault was able to show that even outdated fighters could intercept bombers if they were provided with adequate information through a central control authority. Despite Chennault's pugnacious and worthy challenges to the bomber advocates' theory, though, he was not able to slow their momentum substantially. And when he retired in 1937, there was no strong voice left to lobby for fighter aircraft.' 20 Their failure fully to heed Chennault's warnings about defence would later prove to be a near fatal mistake for the American bomber advocates. 121 Confidence that bombers would get through to their targets did not cause the Americans to drop completely the idea of escort fighters however. As the German threat grew, the Americans recognised that they ought to hedge their bets, and thus they gave relatively more attention to escorts -but increased attention to the problem did not yield an early solution. Unfortunately, American designers tended to focus on large, twin-engined types like the the Bell YFM-lA Airacuda, the Lockheed XP-58, and the Northrop XP-61 (which eventually went into production, but as a night fighter). The idea of equipping certain heavy bombers to serve as escorts to the others was even considered, yielding the YB-40 - a modified B-17, which proved eventually to be a complete failure. 122 Ideas and Realities: The Early Phase As the German threat loomed ever larger, Britain's Air Ministry began to make det