he British ranks regarding targeting policy, and pointed out that 'these [British] officers ... did not believe they were getting the best results possible and that while the wish ... to "bomb something up there" might have appealed to one's sporting blood, it did not work with the greatest efficiency against the German fighting machine. '94 Significantly, the survey members insisted that to obtain useful results, it would be important first to make a 'careful study' of the different kinds of industries in an enemy nation, and to ascertain 'how one industry is dependent on another· and what the most important factories of each are.' The Americans were, in essence, recommending what Tiverton had recommended during the war-and Trenchard had largely ignored. While the Americans were willing to concede that World War I long-range bombing had an effect, if unquantifiable, on the enemy nation, they were not impressed with its overall effect on the enemy fighting forces. Indeed they wrote: 'This investigation has decidedly shown that the enemy's morale was not sufficiently affected to handicap the enemy's fighting forces in the field. The policy as followed out by the British and French in the present war of bombing a target once or twice and then skipping to another target is erroneous.' Willing to concede the 'moral effect' of bombing, the Americans were nonetheless unwilling to concede that seeking it as a primary effect was an efficient way of fighting a war. They pointed out in closing: 'Bombing for moral effect alone ... which was probably the excuse for the wide spread of bombs over a town rather than their concentration on a factory, is not a pro­ ductive means of bombing. The effect is legitimate and just as considerable when attained indirectly through the bombing of a factory. '95 Of course it is impossible to know how closely the Americans would have followed their own advice, especially in the face of the very real technical difficulties posed by bombing in th