plan an air defence of industry in the northern United States.'" Often Wilson used the subterfuge of 'planning a defense' -especially when he wrote to War Department offices -because,  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 23 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 113 according to American policy at the time, he was not supposed to be thinking about -or teaching his students to think about-offensive warfare. If the responses Wilson and his colleagues received were often general, they at least represented a step towards more sophisticated thinking about targeting. The Americans were trying to create a rational and at least partly scientific theory for strategic bombing. In contrast to Britain's Ludlow­ Hewitt, who in 1927 had eschewed overrelying on peacetime calculations, Lieutenant Laurence Kuter of ACTS expounded in 1935, that: 'It is highly desirable to base our computations upon sound mathematical considerations. We would avoid chance, luck, or hazard and deal only in concrete facts.''14 The 'key node' theory assumed that bombers would be able to locate and destroy specific factories and commodities; it placed a premium on accurate strikes by heavy bombers in daylight.''5 The development of the Boeing B-17 only increased the enthusiasm of the ACTS selective targeting advocates. But if the Americans were trying to be more precise in their thinking, how­ ever, they did not always succeed. The science of locating and hitting targets was inexact and underdeveloped through the 1930s. Like the RAF, the Air Corps had only minimal financial and material resources, and was thus limit­ ed in the actual hands-on experience it could acquire with new weapons and techniques. The issues of absorbing and adjusting to new technologies were considerable, and not all of the key questions regarding 'precision' bombing were asked or anticipated. Like the RAF, the Air Corps seemed to be balanced on the cusp between the old world and the new. For instance, students at ACTS in 1933