RPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE develop offensive targeting strategies for bombing. Billy Mitchell -whose relentlessly demanding and insubordinate behaviour ultimately led him to be court martialled in 1925 -addressed the subject in the books and articles he wrote for public consumption. As time passed he tended to broaden his target categories and to place increasing faith in the ability of bombers to get through to those targets. He also sang the praises of the British for their development of an independent air force. 102 But no official independent bombing scheme could be developed within the Air Service itself. By the time of the Air Corps Act, however, organisational shackles were proving less and less able to contain the active imaginations of American airmen. The 1926 version of the 'Bombardment' text used at the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) in Langley, Virginia took a fairly standard line on strategic bombing. It cast doubt on the 'morale value' of bombing population centers, and complained about the fact that the popular conception of bomber aviation was increasingly that of independent, long range operations. But the con­ servative text also contained a few lines which hinted at the increasingly central role US airmen perceived for bombing in future warfare.103 Even more important though were the ideas expressed in another text used for a course called 'Employment of Combined Air Force', also taught in 1926. The 'Combined Air Force' text foresaw aviation as a co-equal partner with ground and naval forces. Its authors argued that the point in war was not to defeat the enemy armed forces, but to undermine the nation's will to fight. They believed that an air force ought to direct strategic attacks against a nations 'vital points' at the outset of hostilities in order to shake the will of the entire nation. 104 This conception had much in common with leading ideas Britain at the same time. Most texts at the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) in the 1930s discu