it with con­ cepts of concentration and efficiency (ideas important to them as military men), they developed a way of thinking which they viewed as uniquely and distinctly theirs -a product of ACTS but also of the 'American way' of thinking about airpower.'" Thus, as the theory evolved, it was invested with a kind of national pride; those influenced by it became loyal to it, and tenaciously committed to it. In fact, the ideas were not original or unique; during 1914-18 British planners had written in detail about 'key targets', 'root industries,' and 'bottlenecks.' Indeed, the first American plan for selective targeting in strategic bombing had come directly from the British. But this did not matter to the men of ACTS, who very likely had no inkling of those early British Air Staff efforts anyway .112 What mattered was their belief that they had come upon a theory with a kind of inherent and funda­ mental truth to it. As the 'key node' theory centred on sustained, 'precision' attacks on essential elements of an enemy state's war industry, what were those 'essential elements'? By 1933 ACTS instructor Donald Wilson was absorbed in trying to identify 'key node' targets in the American industrial infra­ structure so that he could use them as examples in his lectures and problem sets. Along with some of his colleagues, he engaged in a grapeshot style letter-writing campaign to solicit the information he needed. In one letter to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of War, he requested information on the industry of the northeastern US, including: 'principal electric power plants', and 'key items and their source in each of the major industries such as: steel, automobiles, clothing, printing, chemicals, rubber, etc.' In addition he asked for information which would help him plan an air defence of industry in the northern United States.'" Often Wilson used the subterfuge of 'planning a defense' -especially when he wrote to War Department offices -because,  File: --- biddl