s position: the Trenchardian focus on the 'moral effect' of bombing, which had served well for bureaucratic purposes, and which -for a time -had served as the rhetoric of deterrence, was suddenly replaced by a focus on material effect and a desire to do selective targeting. In a sense, one could say that RAF planners were returning to their roots. But the gospel as it was preached by Trenchard proved to be a self-fulfilling prophecy. And, with no other alternative at hand, the RAF pursued it (for a while at least) with the vigour of true believers. Ironically, the airman who came to head Bomber Command in 1942 proved to be the one individual most irrevocably committed to the faith.  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 38 --- 128 AIRPOWER: THEORY AND PRACTICE It is hard to say whether the desperate shape of Bomber Command in 1939-41 could have been avoided. The Ten Year Rule could not help but dramatically affect all the services, and the gloomy economic situation that hung over Britain through the 1930s ensured that there would be no swift and robust recovery from the locust years. Anti-war attitudes and popular enthusiasm for disarmament made the situation of the RAF particularly difficult and tenuous. Slim finances meant that interservice fighting was a fixture of the era. If there had been no Trenchard there might have been no independent RAF after the war (and undoubtedly the Army and the Navy would have considered that an excellent outcome for all concerned). But it must be acknowledged that though Trenchard liked to hail the revolutionary nature of air power, he did little to bring his service into a new era; indeed he kept it fixed, as if in amber, in Edwardian attitudes to war. Some responsi­ bility for the RAF's situation in 1939 must inevitably fall upon the shoulders of those who were content to downplay for too long the science of aerial bombardment, and the very daunting operational challenges it posed. In the end, though, perhaps a war was required t