ynergy and interaction of all three services. Air supremacy and the attack on transport and communications targets made possible the Normandy invasion and the progress that the Allied ground forces made after that.186 The fuel shortage produced by the oil campaign eventually immobilised the remains of Luftwaffe and the Wehrmacht. The greatest achievements of 194~5 were synergystic -the Wehrmacht had to be stopped, and the ground forces had to do it. In the end the air campaign in Europe proved that there are no shortcuts -even in air war. The enemy air force must be defeated first, and once that is done the enemy's means for prosecuting a war of maneuver and maintaining an army in the field must be destroyed or denied to him. Conclusion A comparison of theories developed in Britain and the United States reveals that each nation's ideas about strategic bombing overlapped the other's in some important ways. Both air forces perceived 'strategic bombing' as a means to undermine the enemy's ability to fight and will to fight. Lieutenant Colonel Gorrell's views in 1917 were based on those developed by the  File: --- biddle_origins.pdf --- Page 37 --- BRITISH AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING 127 British in the months anticipating the creation of the Independent Force. An earlier than expected conclusion to the war prevented a full trial of any plans for long range bombing, and the absence of data left a void which would come to be filled with speculation and extrapolation. After World War I both nations recognised the potential for bomber air­ craft acting against an enemy state's will to fight. That the idea became more pervasive in Britain is probably due to several causes, including: Trenchard's personal grasp of the 'moral effect' and his use of it to maintain service independence and organisational flexibility; the overriding conclusion that domestic populations would be a weak point for all states in future wars, but that the British population could be relied upon som