d cartridges amounting to those necessary for a good size battle by the Allies, to say nothing of the material and moral damage that the enemy airplanes cause in addition. '89 From his British colleagues Gorrell learned to appreciate both the moral and material effects of bombing. But Tiverton's work emphasised a systematic approach based on analysis, as well as concentration and thoroughness. Chief of the Air Service, Brigadier General Benjamin Foulois, accepted Gorrell's work and promoted him to head Strategical Aviation, Zone of Advance, American Expeditionary Force (AEF). There he attempted to get things underway with respect to his plan, but by mid-January 1918 he was detailed to report to the Chief of Staff, AEF, to serve in the Operations section of the General Staff.9" In the end, Gorrell's plan was never brought to fruition due to aircraft production problems and American conservatism regarding the question of making aerial bombing an activity independent of the Army. As a full colonel and Assistant Chief of Staff of the Air Service, Gorrell was asked to write a history of the Air Service and a final report to be given to General John J. Pershing, Commander-in-Chief of the AEF. He also co­ ordinated and compiled a series of 'lessons learned' reports from leading American aviators, and initiated a bombing survey to determine what the Allied bombing efforts had really accomplished in the war. The former reports, which were uneven in quality and completeness, often lamented the fact that the air effort had been 'ruined' by the Armistice. The bombing survey, which was undertaken completely independently of the British survey, examined not only the American efforts at tactical bombing but also Allied strategic bombing, including the efforts of Trenchard's IF.91 The US survey members (divided into 12 teams of one officer and two enlisted men each) noted the material and moral effects of bombing in the cities and factories they examined. They also noted the cost d