not. The letter irritated Harris, as it illustrated that, once again, the bureaucrats above him had misunderstood the point of area bombing. It wasn't to destroy houses for the sake of destroying houses. Its purpose was clearer than that. "I am always," he wrote back on April 29, "being pressed to con- centrate entirely on incendiaries, but I do not agree with this policy. The morale effect of H.E. [high explosives] is vast. People can escape from fires, and the casualties of a solely fire raising raid would be as nothing. What we want to do in addition to the horrors of fire is to bring the masonry crashing down on top of the Boche, to kill Boche, and to terrify Boche; hence the proportion of H.E."7  FIRE AND FURY 64 | Killing the Boche | 65 Harris's reply clarified his views not only on bombing but also on the relationship between Bomber Command and the Air Ministry. He "refused " acknowledge any basis for collaboration between the Air Staff and Command " Bomber Command was his baby. In the days following the Rostock raid, Harris reflected on Bomber Command's success. Under his leadership, the Command had by then destroyed 780 acres of Germany's cities, effectively squaring the UK's account with Germany. But i wasn't enough. The Army and Navy would be quick to point out that neither Lübeck nor Rostock was well defended, and that their destruction could not prove Bomber Command's ability to take out larger targets. Nor had the world paid enough attention. Although the New York Times had covered the Lübeck raid the paper gave it only a few column inches on page four. Harris needed some thing bigger, something that would make the world stand up and take notice This search for the dramatic led him to alight upon "The Thousand Plan." The idea was to put one thousand bombers above a German city in one night and to attack it with the greatest concentration of air power in the his- tory of the world.9 The plan was bold, and mad. There was no chance that the Air Ministry w