en and 430 tanks simultaneously on three beachheads in Morocco and Algeria. Thirty-five thousand men under General Patton had been projected straight across the Atlantic from Chesapeake Bay. The rest had steamed down to Africa from the Firth of Clyde.  On the Eastern Front, the summer campaign was following the pattern already established in 1941.2 The huge expanse of Soviet territory and the fierce resistance of the Red Army stretched the Germans to the limit. For three bitter months Zhukov pinned the 6th Army in the ruins of Stalingrad, tempting Hitler to commit more and more armour and infantry.4 The Soviets in the mean time, under cover of deception and maximum secrecy, concentrated fresh reserves on the flanks, along the Don and the lower course of the Volga. This time, unlike in December 1941, the Red Army had the eee Se eee a, of Soviet production on a limited number of weapons produced in a handful of giant factories, permitting the fullest possible realization of economies of mass-production.126 But what is also clear i Eastern Front, but in North Africa And the moment at which the balance shifted can be timed very precisely. On 21 June 1942 Rommel’s tiny Afrika Korps humiliated the much larger British 8th arrived in Suez the Afrika Korps, whose tank strength rarely exceeded 250 vehicles, would be hopelessly outnumbered. After the first bloody confrontation at El] Alamein at the end of July 1942, Rom- On the Eastern Front, the summer campaign was following the pattern already established in 1941.3 The huge expanse of Soviet territory and the fierce resistance of the Red Army stretched the weight of numbers firmly on its side. Along the entire Southern Front, the Soviet advantage was probably in the order of two to one. But more important was the fact that the Red Army had now per- fected the principle of concentration that the Germans had put to such good use early in the war. On the crucial South-western Front, from which the Red Army was to launch the fir