the SS.64 And on 5 October 1943 Speer signed a formal memorandum of cooperation with Himmler, which authorized the informant network of the SD to carry out checks on civilian production throughout German industry.®2 To celebrate the arrangement, Speer made a speech to an audience of one hundred leading Gestapo officers. The next day Speer and Himmler made a show of their new partnership at the annual gathering of the Gauleiter at the town hall conference centre in Posen, the capital of the Warthegau.6© The programme of speeches on 6 October 1943 was extremely heavy. Apart from Speer and Himmler, there were appearances by Admiral Doenitz, who had recently taken control of the navy, and Erhard Milch, as well as three key members of Speer’s staff. The massed appearance by these kev fisures in the armaments effort was clearly no accident. It was calculated to make the resional leaders of the Nazi nartv aware of a new axis of nower within the leadershin of the Third Reich  Page 602 of 800 74% ee end of the year the regional bosses of the! Nazi party, the Gauleiter, had been formally instituted as the overseeing 1g authority of local government. The party and the state were increasingly fused and of the German air war, shot himself.22 Erhard Milch completely lost his composure, proclaiming to an audience of Gauleiter, Ministers and senior civil servants: ‘We have lost the war! Definitely lost it.’ Kehrl had seen the Four Year Plan come and go. He had no time for Speer’s loose talk of armaments miracles, or for his managerial style of ‘organized improvisation’.£2 As the man most closely involved entire department should subordinate themselves to the Reich Armaments Ministry, Kehrl responded by asking him for an explanation as to the wider strategic purpose of the German war effort. with Speer’s design would be construed as tantamount to desertion.£3 Over the following months, Kehr] and his raw-materials staff were duly merged into the Armaments Ministry, where Kehr] also t