t left Berlin for a further round of meetings with Hitler in Rastenburg.106 There is no surviving record of the final conversation between Todt and his Fuehrer. Testimony from those who were present in Rastenburg suggests that it did not go well. It is possible that Todt reminded Hitler of their conversation the previous November and that this provoked an outburst from Hitler, but this is an unsubstantiated claim. In any case, after a brief night’s sleep, Todt boarded his plane to return to Berlin. As his aircraft took off, it veered to the left as if to make an emergency landing. Seconds later it exploded in mid-air. When Rohland heard the news he was immediately convinced that Todt had been assassinated by the SS and he stuck to this version of events long after 1945. The evidence does not support this view. But, whatever the true circumstances of Todt’s death, the fact that such suspicions were crowding in upon a man as level-headed as Walter Rohland is evidence of the acute sense of crisis pervading the leadership of the Third Reich. It is no less indicative that as Todt’s replacement Hitler chose, not an insider to the war effort, but a man of unquestionable personal loyalty, in the form of Albert Speer. WarLilia oo ae LL te et Lt oe ee de 8 tt Co ee een 8 A ee te a tt ttt 197 Page 505 of 800 62% 1941.4 In part this can be Dlamed on an intrigue by secretary of otate Erhard Miich, who was determined to oust Udet trom control of aircrait procurement. but it was not office politics that drove motors and gearboxes still worked, the weapons failed due to freezing up.’192 On his return, Rohland immediately scheduled a meeting in the Ruhr with Albert Voegler, chairman of the supervisory Whilst Speer established himself in his new office, General Fromm, who retained responsibility for the army’s manpower and armaments, was desperate that Hitler should face military realities.102 Given the terrible damage suffered by the Wehrmacht in 1941, and the absence of substantial