3 Jun-1943 Oct-1943 III Under closer inspection, therefore, it is clear that increased mobilization of money, labour and raw materials was fundamentally important in allowing Speer to dramatically raise production. At the same time, however, it is undeniable that this was compounded by the beneficial effects of rationalization. Furthermore, rationalization was clearly a key term in the self-understanding of those responsible for the German war economy after the winter crisis of 1941-2. No other concept so neatly encapsulated the central theme of Speer’s armaments propaganda: the possibility of achieving vastly higher output without any additional input of either labour or material. Given the overwhelming industrial coalition now arrayed against the Third Reich, it was on the power of this voluntarist idea that the future of the German war effort depended. The timing could hardly be more indicative. Rationalization as a slogan of government policy came to the fore in the midst of the crisis on the Eastern Front in the autumn of 1941. At that moment, as Hitler’s war ran aground in the snowy outskirts of Moscow, Nazi Germany needed nothing more urgently than a magic bullet. On 3 December 1941 Hitler even went so far as to issue a decree making rationalization into a top priority for the German war effort.85 The fact that the ordinary business of production engineers had been turned into a political is that the German war economy up to 1941 was an inefficient sink for labour and raw materials and that it was only after December 1941, by means of the Fuehrer’s decree and Speer’s inspired leadership, that it was awakened to the need for efficiency, is clearly a myth. As we have already seen, the statistics usually invoked to support this description of the pre-Speer era simply do not stand up to detailed scrutiny. Conversely, Speer’s success in increasing arma- ments output dramatically in his sector was due largely to a surge in ammunition output, b ained not by rational