er having defeated France but not having defeated Britain, to begin immediate preparations for an attack on the Soviet Union and finally in November—-December 1941 the decision to support Japan in its aggression against the United States, all followed the same pattern. Faced with the coalition of enemies that had first shown itself in 1938, orchestrated, as Hitler believed, by the ‘chosen one of world Jewry’, he knew that time was not on his side. The combined economic might of the Western powers, added after June 1941 to that of the Soviet Union, was overwhelming. If he was ever to secure the Lebensraum that Germany needed for true strategic freedom, Hitler needed to strike hard and fast. . aoe soa 1 xen Vawer reat c 8 4 1s 1 Cr Page 661 of 800 81% ine first point to emphasize 1s that hitler Knew by the summer of 1959 that his effort to develop a long-term programme of preparation ror a war with the Western powers Nad falled. | his, Indeed, 1s Britain and France, at a moment when Germany enjoyed, at most, only a slender military advantage? To explain this decision we must invoke ideology. This might seem paradoxical in light of the fact Union and finally in November-December 1941 the decision to support Japan in its aggression against the United States, all followed the same pattern. Faced with the coalition of enemies that had first In relation to the early years of World War II, there are four points of novelty to emphasize as conclusions of this book. The anti-Western turn in Nazi anti-Semitism, which we have identified as an important theme of 1938-9, continued unabated throughout 1940 and 1941. Having precipitated the war by backing Britain and France in their guarantee for Poland, Roosevelt was now prolonging the war by backing Churchill in his refusal to surrender, a constellation which in Berlin could be explained only by reference to the malevolent role of Jews in both Washington and London. This in turn implies that as far as motivation is concerned any h