enminn nanan fen Mannnees Dn tha athas Land if Deitain Ald vamanin in tha cine than tha aan  Page 502 of 800 62% SO eee to undertake offensive operations against the British and American positions in Asia and the Pacific. The logic of pre-emption that we have traced through Hitler’ 's actions since the summer of 1 939 was this continuing hope of an imminent British collapse that made Hitler deaf to any signals of a compromise peace from Moscow. On the other hand, if Britain did remain in the war, then the con- quest of the Caucasus at least offered Germany the hope of going over to the strategic defensive from a position of strength. Hitler’s sense of urgency was strongly reinforced by the uniformly pessimistic analysis provided by the men responsible for Germany’s war economy. As the failure of Barbarossa sank in, the mood amongst those most closely acquainted with the economic parameters of the war was bleak. Ernst Udet, chief of the Luftwaffe procurement organization, had already shot himself on 17 November 1941.24 In part this can be blamed on an intrigue by Secretary of State Erhard Milch, who was determined to oust Udet from control of aircraft procurement. But it was not office politics that drove Ernst Udet to kill himself. Since the previous autumn, he had repeatedly sought to alert Hitler and Goering to the danger posed by the Anglo-American air programme. By 1942, the Air Ministry knew, the Luftwaffe would be fighting against massively adverse odds, even ignoring the Eastern Front. Ernst Udet certainly had ample reason to seek a desperate escape. Nor would he be the last member of the Luftwaffe leadership to do so. General Thomas of the OKW, who had vacillated over the rationale of Barbarossa from the start, drafted a despairing memo on the futility of Germany’s position as early as the summer of 1941.25 In late December he hosted a meeting of supply officers who provided a depressing tour d’horizon of the Ostheer’s situation. Thomas’s summary was charact