re now capable of delivering a staggering 20,000 tons of bombs ina single lift. And from June 1944 onwards this fearful weapon was turned relentlessly against the Reich. Between June and October Christmas, lovely weather for killing Germans’.122 In practice, however, it took the Allies until the end of January 1945 to reverse the gains made by the Wehrmacht’s last futile offensive. At Fuehrer headquarters, spirits were still not broken.101 Speer reassured Goebbels that, despite the loss of all the occupied territories, armaments production could continue for at least another year. The loss of Upper Silesia to the Red Army at the end of January 1945, the first major zone of German industry to fall to the enemy, forced Speer to revise this estimate. But he was determined, as he put it to Goeb- bels, to ‘do what could be done’. Indeed, he requested from Hitler one final expansion of his administrative powers, taking control of the entire transport system of the Reich, so as to ensure that the priority of the military and the armaments industries were defended against the clamour of terror-stricken civilians fleeing the Red Army. In early March, Speer made a final visit to the Ruhr to inspect the work being done by his most important collaborators in German industry, Albert Voegler and Walter Rohland, who now headed an emergency staff charged with sustaining armaments production in the Ruhr.102 Under the impression of that visit, Speer wrote a report, which he forwarded to Hitler on 15 March. In this memoran- dum, Speer famously argued that, rather than engage in a wholesale policy of scorched earth, the Wehrmacht should take measures to paralyse German industry in the West rather than destroying it permanently. This at least would provide the German population with the minimal means for survival. What has recently emerged from the archives is a second memorandum, which Speer submitted  Ba TTitl ae then doves lntae fn echink La a deen nntnd 5 ane latales Ai nent ntentan