as November 1944. Series production could not begin before March 1945. This spelled disaster. Having lost the battle in the Atlantic, Admiral Doenitz could not afford to allow the Allies a breathing space of two en- tire years.  For Speer, by contrast, the problem was not one of objective constraints, but of mind-set. He was convinced that the sluggish rate of U-boat production was not the result of inadequate resourcing or EO TE ee - Posen meeting was to unite the ‘regional INEVAI leadership around the new axis formed by Speer and Himmler i in Berlin. The common ground was the shared commitment toa last- ditch defence of Hit- ler’s regime, a struggle motivated, at least in part, by their shared responsibility for a campaign of mass murder on a barely imaginable scale. or — pee i ee ~ ito eet phe the war.Z= As Germany’s military situation grew more hopeless, the promise of technological miracles began to play an ever more important role in the politics of the Nazi war effort. In 1942 and early 1943, Hitler had placed great hopes in the new generation of Panzers. But at Kursk, neither the Panther nor the Tiger had proved decisive.7 In fact, Hitler was so disillusioned with the Panther shortages of skilled labour. It was the product of a conservative procurement culture, in which naval bureaucrats and ‘traditional’ manufacturers colluded to produce U-boats on a piece-by-piece basis, with little concern for efficiency. For men such as as Blohm, Speer believed, the ‘old system of ship-building’ had become ‘almost a form of Weltanschauung’.83 The alternative, predictably enough, was American. In the spring and early summer of 1943 newspapers around the world were reporting the record-breaking successes of the Kaiser shipyards in turning out tramp steamers, so-called Liberty ships, from prefabricated sections.84 This, Speer decided, was the system that Germany needed for its Mark XXI U-boat. Since the ship-building traditionalists could not be expected to carry out this r