orkforce.115 No time had been wasted in building housing. The labourers slept on site, inside the tunnels, seeing daylight at most once a week, deprived of access to clean water and sanitation.116 They died in their thousands.112 To encourage those still alive, Kammler strung recalcitrants from the rafters. Speer and his staff saw a factory littered with corpses. Speer later claimed that this tour of new kind of propulsion system, but doing so whilst economizing on high-performance alloy metals, this is hardly surprising.1°5 Despite the extraordinary pace of the development work the Junkers- In the effort to get Speer’s rockets and Milch’s jet fighters into mass-production, a brutal cooperation emerged between German industry, the Armaments Ministries and the SS.196 Immediately of 750 million Reichsmarks.102 By the end of the month, Kammler had a detachment of concentration camp inmates from Buchenwald at work on the new facility. By the end of the year his slave la- and Oranienburg concentration camps.112 By the end of 1943 it was agreed that Kammler’s tunnels would house production lines for both the V2 and Milch’s Me 262 jet plane. After the war, Speer was Kammer had been simultaneously working for Himmler, Goering and Speer, the judge suggested ‘this must surely have led to collisions’, only for Speer to snap back ‘.. . or to cooperation . .. we tried inspection caused many of his staff real distress. His office diary records in less emotive terms that the exertions of the Mittelbau project required some members of the Ministry to take an extra period of leave.118 Whatever the truth of the matter, it did not dent Speer’s commitment to his alliance with Himmler and his admiration for the slave-driver in chief. A week after his inspection of Dora, Speer wrote to Kammler congratulating him effusively on his remarkable feat, ‘in transforming the underground installation in Niedersachsenwerfen (Mittelbau) from its raw condition two months ago into a factory, which ha