sibility for the army’s manpower and armaments, was desperate that Hitler should face military realities.102 Given the terrible damage suffered by the Wehrmacht in 1941, and the absence of substantial manpower reserves, Fromm saw only two options. Hitler could spread the available men across the entire Ostheer. This would add strength to the German lines, but it would not be sufficient to restore the offensive capacity of any of the army groups. The Ostheer would have to reconcile itself to waiting for the Soviet summer offensive. Alternatively, Fromm proposed that Army Groups North and Centre should be left in their ‘burnt-out’ (ausgebrannt) condition and all available reserves concentrated on Army Group South, preparing it for the push towards the oil of the Caucasus.108 There was now no argument that economics had to take priority. Oil was all-important. Nor did Hitler need convincing. Neither Fromm nor Hitler, however, any longer expected to win the war with a single blow. The most that Germany could hope for was to eliminate the threat posed by the Red Army and to consolidate the raw-material hase necessarv for a long war against Britain and the United States. According to Alhert Sneer. Fromm in fact was already convinced that onlv a miracle weanon could save Germanv the Lurtwatte leadersnip to do so. General 1homas of the ONW, who Nad vacillated over the rationaie of bardarossa fromm the start, drafted a despairing memo on the futility Of Germanys position as motors and gearboxes still worked, the weapons failed due to freezing up.’129 On his return, Rohland immediately scheduled a meeting in the Ruhr with Albert Voegler, chairman of the supervisory cannot be won’ The next day, Todt and Rohland met with Hitler at Fuehrer headquarters in the presence of Army Supreme Commander Brauchitsch. Rohland recounted his experiences in Russia and seriously considered stripping all of the home army training units of their expert instructors so as to be able to provide a fi