oyed political protection, because scarce consumer durables such as refrigerators and radios made excellent bribes. To put an end to this scandalous situ- ation, Speer announced that he was appointing ‘hell hounds’ from the armaments sector to hunt down all unnecessary civilian production. And Speer did not hesitate to invoke the ultimate deterrent: I have asked the Reichsfuehrer SS Himmler to place the SD at my disposal for the tracing of these types of products and we have made an arrangement with the SD that the latter has access to all the armaments firms and that it can institute there the necessary enquiries . . . 1 am ready to bear the risks that are bound up with these closures. I am ready to answer all charges, which will come from the most varied places. aad Poet Ate ok . wae a tom 1 1 cote . Se ed waa 1 c 4 net  Page 603 of 800 74% entire department should subordinate themselves to the Reich Armaments Ministry, Kehrl responded by asking him for an explanation as to the wider strategic purpose of the German war effort.S1 German industry.6= To celebrate the arrangement, Speer made a speech to an audience of one hundred leading Gestapo officers. The next day Speer and Himmler made a show of their new partnership at the annual gathering of the Gauleiter at the town hall conference centre in Posen, the capital of the Warthegau.£6 The programme of speeches on 6 October 1943 was extremely heavy. Apart from to that. ‘Since the beginning of the air attacks,’ Speer explained, ‘we have, it is sure, had a slow rise in production but only about 3 to 5 per cent monthly. That is absolutely insufficient.’68 In fact, Speer  goods industries. ‘The business groups are, in their present constellation, mainly the representatives of the large firms,’ Speer said. ‘Now when the large firms in these consumer industries are to be And he asked the Gauleiter ‘to note one thing: there can and will no longer be any room for the former manner in which individual Gaue exempted themselve