o be summarily shot.25 Copies of this latter the Gauleiter at which they gave vent to the festering resentment in the German population.22 The next day, Goering announced the full scope of Backe’s new food programme to representatives from German population starves in any way, others must... pay’12° The first group to do so would be the Jews. Whereas the Polish ration was to be cut off in March 1943, the feeding of 1.2 million Jews was General Government to secure an increased supply of vegetables for the population of the German capital. In his opening speech for the winter charity drive at the end of September 1942, Hitler made a particular point of stressing the importance of the Ukraine for Germany’s food supply.191 Goebbels for his part coined a new propaganda line. Germany, he declared, was ‘digesting’ the ‘occupied territories’. A few days later, at the annual harvest festival, Goering triumphantly announced the imminent restoration of rations in Germany. 192 As of 19 October, the food rations for both Germans and foreigners working in Germany was substantially increased, an improvement ‘paid for’ by the excellent yield of the German harvest and by a huge increase in food supplies to the Third Reich from the occupied territories. Total European deliveries of grain doubled from 2 million tons per annum, to more than 5 million tons in the harvest year 1942—3. There was also a huge increase in the delivery of potatoes and fats. Comparing 1940—41 and 1942—3, the total deliveries of grain, meat and fat provided by France and the occupied territory of the Soviet Union increased from 3.5 million tons to 8.78 million tons (measured in grain equivalents).102 In 1942—3 occupied Europe supplied Germany with more than a fifth of its grain, a quarter of its fats and almost 30 per cent of its meat.104 Most of these provisions never crossed the German border. The food went directly to the Wehrmacht. Of those deliveries that did enter the Reich, the General Government suppli