Wildl WOU CELEL Ie Lie LULULE UL Cologne (30/31 May 1942) and Essen (1 June 1942) gave some indication of what was in store, but they did not develop into a sustained campaign of aerial destruction.2¢ It was not until March 1943 parts, castings and forgings were suddenly in short supply.3& And this affected not only heavy industry directly, but the entire armaments complex. Most significantly, the shortage of key components both sides that this lull could not last. It was only a matter of time before the Red Army resumed its bloody efforts to expel the German invaders. In an attempt to anticipate and disrupt the Soviet summer offensive, the Germans after weeks of delay launched their own offensive on 5 July against the Kursk salient. The resulting confrontation was one of the largest land battles in history.38 But in retrospect it seems like an exercise in perverse futility. In 1941, the Wehrmacht had attacked the Soviet Union on three fronts simultaneously, on a line stretching more than 1,000 kilometres from end to end. In 1942, Hitler had been forced to confine himself to the Southern Front using only one Army Group. In 1943, operation Zitadelle was directed against a single salient, at the junction of two Army Groups.32 Rather than a climactic turning point, the battle at Kursk turned out to be a pointer to the hopelessness of Germany’s situation. To ward off the German attack and prepare for their own counter-stroke, the Soviets had massed 1.3 million men in the Central and Voronezh fronts. Another 573,000 were held in reserve. By contrast, even after stripping their reserves the Germans could offer up only 777,000 men. The efforts of the Adolf Hitler Panzer Programme had certainly served to improve the quality of the German tank force. Two hundred of the new Panthers and 146 Tigers had been especially assembled to lead the assault. In addition, the Panzer divisions were now increasingly equipped with new versions of the Mark IV, with a powerful 75 millimetre g