esolve the conjoined problems of food and labour.  This was confirmed explicitly in late July 1942, first at the eleventh session of the Zentrale Planung on 22 July, at which Backe and Sauckel’s problems were addressed under a single agenda item, and then in separate meetings involving first Speer and Backe and then Backe, Goering and Sauckel, from which Sauckel emerged with a promise that the rations of both German and foreign workers ‘In the General Government there are currently still 3.5 million Jews. Poland is to be sanitized within the coming year’24 Eliminating the Jews would not only reduce the number of people that needed would soon be increased.26 Backe and Goering had now raised their demands on the General Government from 100,000—150,000 tons, the amount discussed in June, to the extraordinary figure of 500,000 tons. The political appeal of this new agenda was so irresistible that Goering heaved himself back into action. On 5 August 1942, in the presence of Speer, he chaired a stressful meeting with the Gauleiter at which they gave vent to the festering resentment in the German population.2? The next day, Goering announced the full scope of Backe’s new food programme to representatives from all over the occupied territories. There was going to be, Goering announced, a fundamental rearrangement of the food supply in Europe: the Third Reich controlled regions ... such as we never had during the last world war, and yet I have to give a bread ration to the German people which can no longer be justified. I have had foreign workers brought to Germany from all regions, and these foreign workers, regardless of where they come from, declared that they had better food at home than here in Germany . .. The Fuehrer repeatedly said, and I repeat after him: if any one has to go hungry, it shall not be the Germans, but other peoples... In every one of the occupied territories, I see the people fed to bursting and among our own people there is starvation. It was time to