imal means for survival. What has recently emerged from the archives is a second memorandum, which Speer submitted  Ba TTitl ae then doves lntae fn echink La a deen nntnd 5 ane latales Ai nent ntentanes fae thn tanetbacian atil] sn dae Caen naetenl Onane ace baeen annnn ALLA cern tan Anntess ating 6 in Avenir etn thn TATA ne  Page 648 of 800 80% permanently. This at least would provide the German population with the minimal means for survival. What has recently emerged from the archives is asecond memorandum, which Speer submitted to Hitler three days later, in which he advocated a completely different strategy for the territories still under German control. Speer may have opposed the wanton destruction of industry in the West. But on 15 March the Wehrmacht was still holding defensible positions on the eastern banks of the Rhine. At the same time, the Red Army was halted on the Weichsel. This inner zone of Germany, between the Rhine and the Weichsel, Speer proposed to defend to the last man. This was not an economically viable unit and Speer accepted that ‘economic collapse’ was now inevitable. But he still believed that armaments production could be continued for a period of eight weeks. Every available soldier was to be massed along the river banks for one last slaughter. Even now, Speer did not relinquish the hope that Germany had some power to influence the outcome of the war. ‘A dogged defence of the current front line for a few weeks’, he wrote, ‘may yet demand respect from the enemy and may yet be able to influence the end of the war in a positive direction.’ Nobody should underestimate the consequences of this kind of thinking on the part of the political leadership of the Third Reich. World War II in Europe did not end with a whimper. The final battles of the war were the most bloody in the entire conflict. Setting aside the casualties suffered by the Soviets, the Americans, the British and their Commonwealth allies, the losses suffered by the Wehrmacht wer