s could see no logic in unnecessarily antagonizing the civilian population by implementing an immediate programme of genocide. It was necessary to make at least a show of feeding the population. Though the Germans always avoided any talk of official rations, for fear that this would imply a degree of entitlement, food did begin to be distributed. The result was a messy compromise, recorded with aston- ishing sangfroid by one local Wehrmacht administrator:  In the last months for the first time and then ever more frequently there has been mention of the civilian food supply in the course of the working day. That the Russians are still here too, we never really considered. No, that is not quite right. Following the official instructions we were . .. not supposed to consider them. But the war has taken a different turn ... Under these circumstances we can- not afford not to consider the population in food terms. But where are we supposed to get anything from?&2  This question was never satisfactorily answered. The urban population of western Russia survived by resort to the black market and increasingly by abandoning the cities, returning to live with family members who were still resident in the countryside. The Wehrmacht for its part did its best to feed itself from the land. Within weeks of the invasion, the principal task of large parts of the  ~  . e + _ a militia.55 In addition, from the autumn of 1941 the Einsatzgruppen were reinforced by fresh contingents of German personnel—Waffen SS and numerous battalions of armed German police. The rate simply by requisitioning all available grain and ‘shutting off’ the cities. In practice, this vision of mass starvation as a result of systematic inaction turned out to be naive.2? The Soviet population did But it was the Soviet prisoners of war from whom the Hunger Plan exacted the heaviest toll.£2 In the first phase of Barbarossa no less than 3.3 million Red Army soldiers fell into the hands of the really considered. No, t