ence, he forced Goering to acknowledge the logical consequence of the formation of the Jaegerstab. With effect from 1 August 1944, the Luftwaffe’s entire industrial complex was placed directly under the control of Speer’s Super-Ministry. For the first time in the history of the Third Reich, the whole armaments effort was formally concentrated under one single authority. And this was not enough. The military emergency demanded that literally every facet of German society should be put at the service of the war effort. On 12 July Speer wrote to Hitler demanding that, alongside his expanded powers over the armaments economy, Joseph Goebbels should be placed in charge of mobilizing the home front and Heinrich Himmler should be given responsibility for the army’s reserve formations. Only the ruthless determination of National Socialist leadership could see Germany through. Even at this late stage, Speer refused to concede defeat. In his report to Hitler he stressed that ‘with the new, technically superior weapons, aircraft, U-boats and with the deployment of the A4 [rocket] and with the increase in production of tanks and assault guns we will in the next three to four months overcome the apex of the crisis, which, as yet, still lies ahead . . 52 Goebbels’s appointment as Reich plenipotentiary for total war followed on 18 July.2& Himmler’s promotion came two days later.57 In the days prior to 20 July, Speer thus allied himself firmly with the two men who were to prove them- selves to be the key pillars of the Nazi regime in the desperate hours following the attempt on Hitler’s life. At the moment that the bomb went off in Hitler’s bunker, Speer was with Goebbels and  Page 633 of 800 78% re — gency staffs into a permanent, streamlined structure of state direction, backed up ) by a concerted fiscal consolidation.38 At the same time, however, Speer was facing a groundswell of opinion from increasingly unwilling to speak in public, he agreed to make a major appearance on Spee