chief industrial employer of inmate labour, with Heinkel, Messerschmitt and BMW leading the way.®2 But in the later stages of the war it is hard to think of any major new armaments facility that was not constructed on the presumption that concentration camp labour would be used. On 23 February 1944 Albert Speer wrote personally to his ‘dear party comrade Himmler’ to request that every effort should be made to provide inmate labour to the armaments factories.£3 And Himmler did not hold back. By the end of 1944, it is estimated, Himmler’s camps provided the German war effort with at least 500,000 workers, or roughly 5 per cent of the industrial workforce; 140,000 were employed in constructing giant underground factories under SS control, 130,000 worked for the Organisation Todt, which was responsible for construction in the occupied territories, and 230,000 were hired out to private industry.64 In all of the concentration camps, productive labour was coupled with a regime of ill-treatment, overwork and starvation that resulted in mass death. This took place under the eyes of German man- agers and workers, not to mention the civilian population at large, who often lived as neighbours of the branch camps such as BMW’s Allach. Viewed in the large, working inmates to death was of course only marginally less irrational than murdering them outright. Here, however. it is crucial to distinguish between logics operating at the macro and the micro level and to consider the time-factor. ce nee ena cence 0 EI SEE OE SE OE EOI en eae eee Oe eS eee Se ee eee eee eeeE eee eee eee that would spell disaster. ‘After us there is nothing, everything will be over ... Germany will be destroyed. Everybody will be slaughtered, murdered, burned and destroyed. We have, after all, burned it would be the ordinary German worker who would have to do it. ‘You won’t be doing it and I won't.’ To make sure the mine managers got the message, Pleiger added with characteristic cynicism: Reichswerke Herma