ition at a distance of 100-150 kilometres from Moscow. By March 1942, with the Germans still lodged deep in the Soviet Union, the Eastern Front relapsed into relative calm. TIT  Page 497 of 800 61% May crisis in 1938.% This drastic shift was fully in line with German armaments strategy since the autumn of 1940-shifting resources to the Luftwaffe and navy as soon as the battle in the East was the Red Army would not be defeated in 1941. Faced with drastic cuts to its steel ration, the army procurement office panicked.64 Without extra steel, it saw no possibility of resupplying the Ostheer to of shells and bullets had fallen to dangerously low levels.2 If the Wehrmacht was to continue active operations in 1942, it desperately needed to replenish its stocks. Not only that, given the startling effort was simply abandoned.§8 In fact, in light of the exhaustion both of the workforce and of coal supplies, the Wehrmacht’s military-economic office looked forward to the upcoming holiday season road is under constant air attack. Those killed by bombs are no longer being buried. All the hangers-on (cargo troops, Luftwaffe, supply train) are pouring back to the rear in full flight.’73 Field Marshal losses, enabling the Wehrmacht to rebuild.77 But, in retrospect, Stalin’s failure to concentrate all his forces against the weakest point in the German line was a terrible mistake, enabling the Army Group III It is commonly said that the Wehrmacht ‘failed’ to take Moscow. But this does no justice to the immensity of the shock delivered by the Red Army in the winter of 1941-2. Army Group Centre, the pride of the German army, had suffered a shattering battlefield defeat. The reverse in Germany’s strategic position was even more catastrophic. In choosing to widen the war in 1941, Hitler had gambled on the Wehrmacht’s ability to conquer the Soviet Union before America entered the conflict. He had thus hoped to place Britain in an impossible position. But when the Wehrmacht appeared to be o