ot 360 divisions, but a total of 600.11 inextricably tied up with the real achievement of Soviet industrialization, of which the excellent weaponry of the Red Army was the most dramatic expression.12 In France in 1940 the Wehrmacht had August into the background.22 It now seemed that there would after all be time to complete all the objectives for Barbarossa in a single year. On 6 September, Army Group Centre was ordered to begin planning for a direct thrust towards the Soviet capital defended by what were assumed to be the last remnants of the Red Army.22  The weeks surrounding the launching of this operation, code-named Taifun, were a key moment in the progressive radicalization of the Nazi regime. To Goebbels, Hitler opined that the Wehrmacht would soon be advancing towards Stalingrad and the Don. Britain, finally, would have no option but to come to terms. Prime Minister Churchill would be removed from power. The British Empire would be left intact, but ‘England... has no future in Europe’.24 The Eurasian landmass would be reserved for Germany, providing it with the resources it needed to make itself into a truly global power. Hauptquartier in Rastenburg on 18 August 1941, he was shocked to find his Fuehrer talking of a negotiated peace with Stalin.12 For Hitler, furthermore, the possibility of a stalemate in the East had In his address to the troops of Army Group Centre on 2 October, Hitler made no secret of what was at stake. He linked the battle for Moscow directly to the racial struggle. Germany was now at war both with capitalistic Britain and Bolshevik Russia. Superficially different, the two economic systems were in fact fundamentally alike. Bolshevism was no better than the worst kind of capitalism. It was a creator of poverty and destitution and ‘the bearers of this system’, ‘in both cases’, were ‘the same: Jews and only Jews! The assault on Moscow was to deliver a ‘deadly thrust’ against this arch-enemy of the German people.25  Whether or not it was in