rmaments firm reported in the spring of 1942 that it had almost daily cases of ‘Ukrainians who are willing to work, collapsing unconscious at their machines’.82 It is characteristic of the state of mind in Germany at the time that the firm felt it necessary to point out that its complaint had nothing to do with sentimental humanitarianism. They requested more food for their workers, ‘only for the purpose of getting the greatest possible performance out of Ukrainian workers who are undoubtedly diligent and usable’, In the summer of 1942 the Daimler-Benz plant at Untertuerkheim reported in a similar spirit to its regional food office. Its consignment of Russians was refusing to work for lack  ——— a experts added to the leadership’s concerns. The reduced ration prevailing since the start of the war had had a serious impact on the population's reserves of body fat. The tendency of factory workers first years of the war. It was now to be expected that any further reduction in the ration would result in a precipitate decline in performance, particularly in industries such as mining.87 diligent and usable’. In the summer of 1942 the Daimler-Benz plant at Untertuerkheim reported in a similar spirit to its regional food office. Its consignment of Russians was refusing to work for lack of food. The ringleaders of the mutiny had been dispatched to a concentration camp. But to complement these sanctions they needed an increase in rations, to maintain both morale and the physical strength of the workforce. The management asked specifically for larger quantities of carbohydrates, even if this came at the expense of a further reduction in quality.22 By the end of the summer Sauckel himself was deeply frustrated. He had risen to the challenge of recruiting hundreds of thousands of workers for Germany, but their productive potential was being wasted by the utterly inad- equate diet allocated to them by the Reich Food Ministry. At a meeting with DAF officials in early September, Sauc