chling’s overriding priority was to raise steel production. As early as the end of June 1942, Speer and Hitler had agreed that Germany would need to raise monthly production by at least 600,000 tons by the end of the year.72 As Roechling presented it to the steel industry in the summer of 1942, the immediate goal was to match Hitler and Speer’s demands by raising output from its current level of roughly 31 million tons per annum to at least 36 million tons.Z3 In the longer term, Roechling could see virtually no limit to the demand for this basic commodity. In years to come he could foresee European production of in excess of 85 million tons, greater than the United States at its peak. The problem, however, was coal. To meet Hitler and Speer’s target, the steel industrialists claimed to need at least 400,000 extra tons of coking coal per month, as well as more skilled labour and a large quantity of scrap metal for smelting. On this point, however, there seemed no possibility of reconciling the demands of Roechling and his colleagues with the production forecasts provided by Paul Pleiger and the Reich coal association. On this rocky terrain of heavy industrial politics, the entire ‘Speer system’ very nearly came to grief in the autumn of 1942. So critical was the issue that it was taken to an extended meeting with Hitler on 11 August 1942. Apart from Speer, the meeting was attended by Hans Kehrl (RWM), Sauckel as the plenipotentiary for labour, Pleiger for coal and the three-man leadership team of the steel industry, Roechling, Rohland and Alfried Krupp, the heir to the Krupp throne. Initially, Pleiger stuck to his guns, pronouncing himself unable to deliver the necessary coke. As we have seen, coal was in critically short supply throughout the German Empire. Pleiger was struggling to raise output from Germany’s ageing pits. Productivity in Belgium and northern France was falling fast. Norway and Suredan hadly needed ta rehiuild their ctacke if they were to avoid dica