on was far from miraculous. It was due to perfectly natural causes: reorganization and rationalization efforts begun long before Speer acceded to power; the ruthless mobilization of factors of production; the coming on stream of investments made earlier in the war; and a deliberate sacrifice of quality for an immediate increase in quantity. And this critique is more than mere nit-picking. It goes to the very heart of Speer’s ideological vision of the war economy, as a limitless flow of output released by energetic leadership and technological genius. The basic point is simple. The Speer miracle was not unconstrained. The German war economy after 1942 was limited by the same fundamental trade-offs that had restricted it since the first years of the war. And by the summer of 1943, these constraints, combined with the first systematic attack against German industry by Allied bombers, brought Speer’s ‘miracle’ to a complete halt. This abrupt interruption of the armaments boom in the summer of 1943 and its crucial political implications have hitherto been underrated.18 Not only did armaments output stagnate, but Speer’s most basic assumption was revealed as an illusion. For all their efforts, Speer and his collaborators could do nothing to alter Germany’s strategic predicament. In July 1943, the solipsistic bubble of Speer’s armaments propaganda was pricked by a succession of military disasters so dramatic that the prospect of defeat could no longer be hidden from the German population. And it was at that moment of crisis that Speer showed his true colours. Unwavering in his loyalty to the Fuehrer, Albert Speer German war effort had come to the conclusion that the war could no longer be won. General Fromm, General 1homas and rritz 1odt all agreed that the rational thing ror the German leadersnip to do, coveted Ritterkreuz zum Kriegsverdienst-kreuz (War merit cross).2 The medal was pinned to Hahne’s chest by the well-known war hero, Corporal Krohn.1° Attending the celebra