in dismissing it as a fanciful project.28 However, the A4 rocket, as an army scheme, fell squarely within Speer’s field of responsibility and he therefore had every interest in promoting it as a means of outflanking the Luftwaffe. Characteristically, the decision to go for large-scale production of the rockets was taken in January 1943 as the disasters of Stalingrad and North Africa unfolded. As a sign of his seriousness, Speer ordered the creation of a Special Committee for the rocket headed by Gerhard Degenkolb, the hero of the crash locomotive production programme in 1942.22 The decision to proceed to mass-production was confirmed in March after successful test-firing. Finally, in July 1943 Hitler gave the project top priority with the so-called A4 Erlass. This gave Speer the right to requisition resources even from the Luftwaffe. In this sense it was the ideal successor to the Adolf Hitler Panzer Programme, which in the aftermath of the Kursk debacle had lost much of its lustre. Along with the U-boat project, the V2 was the top priority programme that Speer needed in the desperate summer of 1943 to maintain the expansive momentum of his bureaucratic empire. And it certainly took on impressive dimensions. In the last years of the w war, the. A4 programme w was to emerge as the biggest single armaments project of the Nazi regime, costed at 2 billion Reichsmarks; a Page 615 of 800 75% industrial supporters could hardly have been more drastic.22 At the Deschimag yard in Bremen, which had been owned by Krupp since the end of 1941, the Speer Ministry went even further.2& Like misleading.2? Not that the other miracle programmes of 1943-5 were significantly more successful in affecting the outcome of the war. But it is hard to think of any other industry in which relations certainly took on impressive dimensions. In the last years of the war, the A4 programme was to emerge as the biggest single armaments project of the Nazi regime, costed at 2 billion Reichsmarks; a hug