ne wac an anen cecret You all accept happily the obvious fact that there are no more Jews in your province. All Germans, with very few exceptions, realize perfectly well that we couldn’t have lasted through the bombs and political order, the Fuehrer’s political instrument, for once quite openly about this question . . . to tell you how it was. all in the clearing of ghettos: in Warsaw we fought street battles for four weeks . .. Because that ghetto produced fur coats and textiles, we were prevented from taking it over when it would have been be told about this. But I think it is better that we-we together-carry for our people the responsibility . .. responsibility for an achievement, not just an idea... and then take the secret with us to our which apparently required no further comment.7! As we have seen, Paul Pleiger and Robert Ley had discussed the ‘final solution of the Jewish question’ with leading coal industrialists in the autumn of 1942.72 Speer, furthermore, had been fully informed of the decision to reallocate the European food supply in 1942. When in 1944 the SS undertook the evacuation of hundreds of thousands of the Soviet prisoners of war and the civilian population of Eastern Europe was an open secret. In any case, what concerns us here is not the question of personal knowledge and guilt, but the extraordinary equation that Himmler created in his speech, the equation between the clearing of the Warsaw ghetto and the ‘combing-out’ of Germany’s consumer industries. Himmler appealed to the Gauleiter to approach the painful sacrifices required by wartime mobilization with the same kind of radical enthusiasm which they took for granted in relation to the Jewish question. Both were tasks that were essential to the survival of the Nazi regime. Both were tasks that had to be accomplished with a complete lack of sentimentality. Everyone in the room shared responsibility for both. Whether or not Speer was still present, Himmler clearly wanted his audience to be