e 1.2 million ‘condemned to starve’ did manage to obtain food through the black market, then the General Government administration ‘hoped’ that this would lead to an ‘acceleration of anti-Jewish measures’. Frank and his colleagues need not have worried. In the autumn of 1942 Treblinka, Chelmno and Belzec were operating at full speed. By the end of 1942, 300,000 was the number of Polish Jews remaining alive. rr rs oe 0 oes eee a a oe es ae of the Polish population were left to fend for themselves. The result was an epidemic of malnutrition and outright s rly amongst the Jewish population confined in the ghettos. Faced ‘In the General Government there are currently still 3.5 million Jews. Poland is to be sanitized within the coming year.24 Eliminating the Jews would not only reduce the number of people that needed the entire month of August, the city of Warsaw was to be sealed off from its agricultural hinterland. Peasants who failed to meet their delivery quotas were to be summarily shot.2> Copies of this latter By the end of August 1942 this extraordinary series of measures spread a palpable mood of relief throughout Berlin. Backe, Himmler and Goering had staved off a disastrous downward spiral in the food supply. With the harvest operation in full swing, Backe had concluding discussions with Hitler, Himmler and Goering on 24—6 August. On 6 September Himmler reported to Goering on the pro- gress of the harvest in the General Government. Two days later Backe thanked Himmler for the assistance provided by the SS in securing grain both in the General Government and the Ukraine. In the  a  Page 544 of 800 67% WIC) Germany s 00a snortage il L742, backe wert much furtier. me now demanded that the Governor General snouid reverse the How. Kater thal receive food supplements froin Germany, thie Gern- ‘In the General Government there are currently still 3.5 million Jews. Poland is to be sanitized within the coming year.’24 Eliminating the Jews would not only reduce the number