n, when Germany invaded Poland in 1939 the intention had not been to equip Germany’s farms with an army of Polish workers. Himmler as chief of police reluctantly agreed to Backe’s demands, but only on strict conditions. It was clear to all involved that these conditions were counterproductive in the sense that they made voluntary recruitment virtually impos- sible and reduced the productivity of workers when they were in Germany. However, the creation of a racially pure society was a project in which Hitler’s regime had invested too much for it to be  Page 524 of 800 64% coniidant Felix Kersten in an enthusiastic mood. His elation was due to a meeting a few days earlier, at which he had presented Hitler with the final version of the Generalplan, complete with maps East would soon be won. As Himmler reported it: ‘The Fuehrer not only listened to me, he even refrained from constant interruptions, as is his usual habit . .. today he went so far as to approve of my scale can now be realized. I shall set to at once ona large scale .. 41 simply abandoned. It is possible, with this in mind, to attribute the early disasters of the Ostarbeiter programme in 1942 to the slow unravelling of this contradiction between ideology and pragmatic necessity. 47 Sauckel, for one, seems to have had every intention of ensuring that ‘his’ workers, once they were in Germany, were treated well enough for them to make a productive contribution to the war effort.48 Furthermore, the foreign labour programme was to serve an ideological purpose in spreading the word throughout Europe of the benefits brought to ordinary working people by the National Socialist revolution. Old habits, however, died hard. The administrators of the foreign labour camps were often negligent and arbitrary in their distribution of food. The rations allocated by the Reich Food Ministry were rarely distributed at the correct levels. There are several well-documented cases of corruption in which food intended for Sauckel’s