rs who lacked land were to be assisted by the consolidation of smaller holdings taken from part-time farmers or less adequate cultivators. Young families of good German stock would be  am aniien end ta talea ain tha annactinitian far anttlamant in tha Dant Tha final rmecian af tha Canavalnlan aamnlatad her Marre in 1019 nallod fae nn lace than 990 ANN familing tn hin denen Fram tha auae  Page 469 of 800 58% ee ODE NOONE OE IIL ENE EE NE ENE oo ee le of land required | farms of more than 30 hectares, the family farm was not a viable unit. These territories would be given over to larger estates run by veterans of the SS, employing gangs of Slavs as —_ eee lle encouraged to take up the opportunities for settlement in the East. The final version of the Generalplan completed by Meyer in 1942 called for no less than 220,000 families to be drawn from the over- populated rural areas of the Reich. In addition, the SS hoped to be able to attract 220,000 young couples starting life in agriculture and at least 2 million colonists from the urban areas of Germany.32 But the agrarian planners did not merely intend to seize land and redistribute population. The goal of creating a ‘high-intensity’ (hochin-tensiven ) Lebensraum could only be achieved by substantial investment. 34 An enormous flow of German capital would have to follow the German settlers into the East. The farms would need to be well equipped with livestock and machinery. But most important of all was the need to improve the transport infrastructure. Modern agriculture could not prosper without links to the towns and the cities. Meyer’s initial costing for the Generalplan Ost came to 40 billion Reichsmarks, which was soon inflated, on Himmler’s insistence, to 67 billion Reichsmarks.32 This was as much as Germany had spent on rearmament between 1930 and 1939. It was more than the combined total of all investment in the German economy between 1933 and 1938. It was approximately two-thirds of Germany’s GDP in 1941.36 Ha