or a swift, motorized Since this strategy involved the balancing of a variety of competing objectives, it was bound to produce distributional conflict between the various interested parties within the Nazi state. It is possible therefore to tell the history of the second year of the war as an intricate narrative of bureaucratic in-fighting.12 Once the ammunition crisis of 1940 had passed, Fritz Todt’s bid to assume complete control of the armaments effort faltered. An uneasy stand-off developed between Todt, the OKW’s military-economic office under General Thomas and the procurement offices of the three armed forces. This power struggle was further complicated by Goering’s dual position as head of the air force and head of the Four Year Plan, and by the occasional interventions of Walther Funk, the head of the civilian economic administration. All sides in this multi-sided bureaucratic battle hurled allegations of incompetence and inefficiency. The archival paper trail thus appears to confirm the statistical indicators produced later in the war by the Speer Ministry, which appear to demonstrate the inefficiency and under-mobilization of the German war economy in 1940 and 1941. But if we are interested in the real outcomes of the armaments effort, the bureaucratic battles in Berlin are a distraction. The politics of the German war effort may have been messy, but the record of industrial production between June 1940 and June 1941 in fact bears the unmistakable imprint of strategic design. Armaments production and economic policy were linked to a strategic war plan and when the data are analysed carefully, the evidence suggests that this strategy was successful in producing a very substantial further mobilization of the German economy. That this was not enough to defeat the Soviet Union is another matter. argument has continued to influence the mainstream of historical writing about the Third Reich. The German army’s requirements for Barbarossa—Ruestungsprogramm B-were