ctical impact on the war whatsoever. In part, the disappointment of the XXI programme was due to the familiar problems of pushing a a revolutionary new design straight from the drawing board into mass-production, without extensive testing. Not surnrisinelv. it saon became clear that the new hoats reauired extensive debugging. The steering svstem. most imnortantlv. needed a substantial redesign. But. added to this.  Page 613 of 800 75% ere — aerate, — iene, — eet erent, — tetra, — Deceeriariarie, — Miia Saeed arian “ear rre™ a eaaeaaaaaa, — ataniaras “Aiaaeeiareaeaiae Aeinataeaeeeaiaiaiaaaaai aaa, — ae battle for the ‘final victory’ (Endsieg). And Speer stuck to this script three months later, in August 1944, in what had become his annual speech to the Gauleiter at Posen.22 Returning to his promise of extensive testing. Not surprisingly, it soon became clear that the new boats required extensive debugging. The steering system, most importantly, needed a substantial redesign. But, added to this, the programme was hampered by the dogmatic insistence of the Speer Ministry on its sectional construction concept. The U-boat construction experts at Blohm & Voss had doubted from the start whether inexperienced, inland construction firms with limited naval experience would be capable of delivering U-boat sections with sufficient accuracy for them to be assembled into pressure-tight submarine hulls. They were right. In the hull sections delivered to the assembly yards, there were deviations of up to 3 centimetres. There were persistent leaks both around the transmission and the snorkel. Imprecision in the assembly of the complex steering system led to repeated rudder jammings. Most seriously, and most predictably, when the prefabricated sections of the outer hull were subject to extreme pressure, unevenness in the welding resulted in potentially lethal fractures. The sections could be trusted only after extensive testing and fixing. Altogether, the U-boats, which had taken 175