Jalllialy t771, DOCK Was oO COLCELIEH AVOUL LILE SCale OL LILE MUSSlUll asoleEtledm LU Tlls alllly ELOUP Uilal Le LOLCEU PralMe’d, ULE CIEL OF ALITly olall, LO CULCEUE tilal the overwhelming economic might of its enemies.22 It is at this key point, however, that the real fragility of Barbarossa becomes apparent. Following the same logic as Marcks, Hitler consistently reach in the Urals.2& In October, a staffer at the Moscow embassy, Gebhardt von Walther, forwarded an even more pessimistic assessment to Halder. This warned against expecting any immediate European Russia as a whole was not.’120 As we shall see, this distinction was soon to take on an ominous significance. In any case, in the light of reports he was receiving about Hitler’s own view of the the profits of occupation would be huge. Together with Backe, Thomas's staff had worked out a plan to ‘free up’ at least 4 million tons of grain from the Ukraine. And Thomas went further than any Surveying this remarkable collection of rationalizations three things, at least, are clear. First of all, Hitler’s authority was too great, following the success in France, for anyone to mount a serious challenge to his decision to invade the Soviet Union. Halder backed away from an open clash. General Thomas did an about-face to conform to Hitler’s point of view. Beneath the veneer of consensus, however, it is clear that there were deep divisions both about the design of the operation and its strategic rationale. As late as the spring of 1941, the Foreign Ministry was still opposing the coming war, preferring to continue the alliance with the Soviet Union against the British Empire.104 But even more powerful than the Fuehrer myth in silencing debate was the common faith in the Wehrmacht. If the Red Army could indeed be destroyed in the first weeks of the campaign, west of the Dnieper—Dvina river line, then, as in 1940, the worries that preceded the attack would soon be forgotten. There  Page 456 of 800 56% UME OVELWIHLCIITL