tember 1944 the Allied advance across France came to a halt on the borders of the Reich. There followed months of grinding defensive battles, in which progress was agonizingly slow and the superior fighting skill of the Wehrmacht showed itself to remarkable effect. In the East, the Red Army halted outside Warsaw. For the following months, fighting on the Eastern Front was largely confined to the flanks. German Army Group North was cut off and trapped against the Baltic coastline. In the South, after the Red Army took Romania on the run, its progress through Hungary was far less swift. At the end of November the Wehrmacht still clung to Budapest. A year of unmitigated military disaster thus ended, as Alfred Jodl had predicted, with the frontiers of the Reich intact. And on 16 December, Speer’s mobilization of the tank industry permitted Hitler to indulge in the last great surprise of the war: the Ardennes offensive.28 In an absurd attempt to repeat the success of May 1940, 1,800 tanks, each fuelled with one load of petrol, plunged through the Belgian hills towards the Meuse and the gigantic Allied petrol dumps at Antwerp.22 On Christmas Eve 1944 they reached the river crossings at Dinant that had marked the turning point four years earlier. This time, however, they penetrated no further. Though outnumbered, the American units caught in the initial assault fought a dogged rearguard action, giving Eisenhower time to respond. As soon as the winter clouds lifted, Allied air superiority reimposed itself and reinforcements were rushed in. It was, as Patton put it, ‘a clear cold Christmas. lovely weather for killing Germans’ 100 In nractice. however it tank the Allies until the end of Ianuarv 1945 to reverse the sains made hv the Wehrmacht’s last futile offensive. At Fuehrer were now capable of delivering a staggering 20,000 tons of bombs ina single lift. And from June 1944 onwards this fearful weapon was turned relentlessly against the Reich. Between June and October Chris