breaking down. More and more soldiers are heading west on foot without weapons, leading a calf on a rope or pulling a sled loaded with potatoes. The road is under constant air attack. Those killed by bombs are no longer being buried. All the hangers-on (cargo troops, Luftwaffe, supply train) are pouring back to the rear in full flight’73 Field Marshal Fedor von Bock was so overwhelmed that he had to be relieved of his command. By the end of 1941 he had been followed by the Commander-in-Chief of the army, Brauchitsch, General Guderian and the Commanders-in-Chief of both Army Groups North and South.  From the Baltic to the Black Sea, the Wehrmacht lost 380,000 soldiers in two months of intense fighting; 150,000 killed, wounded or missing in action, the rest from illness and frostbite.74 In the first days of January 1942, in the judgement of the most competent military analysts, the position of Army Group Centre was untenable.22 German 4th Army, whose Panzers had spearheaded the thrust towards Moscow, was threatened with encirclement on both its southern and northern flanks. If Army Group Centre had been broken, the entire Ostheer would have been forced, at the very least, into a far-reaching withdrawal. Moscow 1941 might well have become a disaster for the Wehrmacht even greater than it was to suffer at Stalingrad twelve months later. Tragically, however, it was precisely this sense of impending victory that led Stalin to overreach. Believing that he was in a position to win the war, on 7 January 1942 he ordered the Red Army onto the offensive along the entire 1,500 kilometre front line.Z6 The losses that the Red Army inflicted in its winter campaign were severe. In February and March 1942, the Germans suffered another 190,000 battlefield casualties as well as Miu10T) COnS.== COMpMed With tile ODVIOUS LIM tations OF Gerifan metaiwOrkins Capacity, tins meant that the Werrinacnts Overall allocation Would fave to be Silarply Curtalied to prevent any furtiner May crisis i