ck one of those unruly guys because the fellow won't work, SAP SM VV SEES REDE MEE PLAULALY SLE LAE WLELALS AL LLALAACLLLS VALUE by VALE VVEL EM LU LANG ALLY SALE AOE LEELA Y EM LALO PLUM LAU EE, BALE JOC BEL OLAM COUMLLEOOLUALY SE VEVEM LEAS ALILICALACLALD SA2AL LL 2 LEO you, and get your people to the point that no one deters them ... Gentlemen, I know, not every subordinate can say: For me, the law no longer exists .. . underwear, socks and even special allocations of vitamin pills.42 These bonuses, however, were reserved in large measure for the German workforce and the very best performing foreigners. For the then the situation would soon change. International law cannot be observed here. I have asserted myself very strongly, and with the help of Saur I have very strongly represented the point of view that the prisoners, with the exception of the English and the Americans, should be taken away from the military authorities. Soldiers are not in a position, as experience has shown, to cope with these fellows. I shall take very strict measures here and shall put such a prisoner of war before my court martial. If he has committed sabotage or refused to work, I will have him hanged, right in his own factory. I am convinced that that will not be without effect. (Italics in original.) The methods of Kammler’s Mittelbau were thus extended to the entire Luftwaffe sector.22  This increasingly draconian attitude to labour discipline reached its limit in the drive to mobilize the reserves of concentration camp labour. A fortnight after the establishment of the Jaegerstab Himmler wrote to Milch to inform him that the Luftwaffe was currently employing 36,000 concentration camp inmates in its factories and that he hoped to raise this in the near future to 90,000.21 As an example of a productive collaboration, Himmler cited the case of Messerschmitt’s fighter plant at Regensburg, which had entered into a sub-contracting deal with the Flossenbuerg concentration camp. Instead of