e strategic bomber, the four-engined He 177. The future of the in the next major round of procurement. Meanwhile, the second-tier manufacturers who produced aircraft under licence, had every incentive to hedge their bets by avoiding over-commitment to any particular design or aircraft component. The result of this competitive process was a profusion of prototypes and innovations, but not the optimal exploitation of economies of scale. What this should not obscure, however, is the process of acceleration that was already beginning to take hold of German air force planning in the last months of 1940, in direct response to the Anglo-American air threat. At the heart of this acceleration were Carl Krauch’s enormous new schemes for the production of synthetic rubber and air fuel. But in 1940 and 1941 Krauch’s entrepreneurship was multiplied by the no less energetic activity of Heinrich Koppenberg of Junkers. To meet the threat of American mass-production, Koppenberg set in motion an enormous expansion, both in the output of aluminium and, ano less significant new investment, in the production of aero-engines. In this respect as well, the foundations for an increase in aircraft production were laid well before the results began to make plant in Oranienburg, laid out specifically to enable the large-scale employment of concentration camp labour, a major new experiment for the armaments industries.61 However, thanks largely to its self-combustion.£2 British aerial enemy, then it can only be the qualitative superiority of its armaments.’62 Since new models that were already scheduled for series production were proving troublesome, the leading de- and, a no less significant new investment, in the production of aero-engines. In this respect as well, the foundations for an increase in aircraft production were laid well before the results began to make themselves felt in 1942. In 1940, thanks to the huge expansion undertaken by the Wehrmacht, Germany was the world’s leader in al