ever, on the condition that the tax increases should come into force only after the end of the war. NICE SALALE COMI SELY LELAL WELLE LEVEE GOLLIBLY UILOUSLALIAULE,. 24h 2 ATI, GERULUALIE CU EELS MCOL AV GALMGAUIL COLALIALED, MULL OLIN GILY LALLA OM WAL CA VELIMILUMLE GQUCUMEILOM 28 UU PEL COLL UL ICL AAAE SIR SLALLU i decisions of the German population. Already in the aftermath of Stalingrad, Gestapo informants reported an ever greater willingness to resort to the black market.72 As households came to rely ever Much could be made of this unwillingness on the part of the Third Reich to impose the full cost of the war on the Volksgenossen. It could be read as a symptom of the regime’s deep-seated ‘populism’. But the irony, of course, was that the decision not to tax did not imply that the real burdens of the war were not imposed on the German population. Whether or not they were directly appropriated by the state, an increasing share of the wages and social benefits paid out during the war could not be spent, or could only be spent on black-market purchases at exorbitant prices. In this sense, it would be naive to infer from the failure to impose draconian war taxes that the Third Reich was not willing to impose the full cost of the war on its citizens.88 Whatever happened to money incomes, rationing and the restriction in the production of consumer goods, combined with the impact of British and American bombing, were severely reducing the real standard of living of the German population. Choosing not to match this real reduction with equivalent taxes on money incomes was at best ambiguous in its effects. It may have left some people feeling richer on account of the funds accumulating in savings accounts or in war bonds. But these were promises of future purchasing power that depended for their real value on the success of the Reich’s authorities in maintaining the value of the Reichsmark. Meanwhile, the inflationary danger posed by this pent-up purchasing power nece