med no possibility of reconciling the demands of Roechling and Nis colleagues with the production forecasts provided voluntary basis, he would agree to any coercive measure, and this applied to the Western occupied territories as well, not only in the East.’74 However, given his experience with the malnourished and kind of brutal clarity. After a moment of stunned silence, Pleiger was left with no alternative but to reply: ‘My Fuehrer, I will do everything humanly possible to achieve the goal.’75 Somehow, the iron ‘after us there is nothing, everything will be over .. . Germany will be destroyed. Everybody will be slaughtered, murdered, burned and destroyed.’76 Nevertheless, in August 1942, in the more sober produced.84 When plenty of steel was allocated, ammunition production was buoyant. When the steel supply was restricted, so was the production of ammunition, and this relationship holds both before and after February 1942. To the extent that there was a major surge in labour productivity within the remit of the Speer Ministry, the indicator usually used to measure rationalization success, this in fact confirms the rate-limiting role of steel. Without enough raw material, neither labour nor the available industrial plant could be used efficiently.  FAb LEMS PULILL, LLUWE VEL, SLILLCL CUMUCIILY SOLIELILOU ALLY LULEEIEL MOUALE WY ALU UNE i. FECES FACIES, Dh, UO CU LADD OLE LGB UE RUNS BUG LED ULL PLE UE LID OLE! LEIUUOLL YY VALVE UE LALOR ao Place, kind of brutal clarity. After a moment of stunned silence, Pleiger was left with no alternative but to reply: ‘My Fuehrer, I will do everything humanly possible to achieve the goal.25 Somehow, the iron ‘after us there is nothing, everything will be over ... Germany will be destroyed. Everybody will be slaughtered, murdered, burned and destroyed.’Z6 Nevertheless, in August 1942, in the more sober surroundings of the Fuehrerhauptquartier, Pleiger insisted on putting on record his ‘deep reservations’ about the feasibility o