ments propaganda, it was a perfect continuation of Speer’s ‘armaments miracle’. Above all, it was a triumphant vindication of the new alliance between the two strong men of Hitler’s regime—Albert Speer and Heinrich Himmler. 19 Page 620 of 800 76% eee ne eee ee nee ee ee een ne ee eee ee ee ee eee eee ee ee eee eee eee ee ee Tee eee ee ee eee nen eee ne ee ee ee en ee nee ee nnn nee nn me nee new ene nn Ne Ne Ne NNO Oe Ne NEN NN Ne Oe NEN NO Ne ON LOND NE A In a construction effort that combined ruthless brutality and speed, Hans Kammler got the Mittelbau tunnel complex into production by the end of the year.413 To honour this remarkable feat, On 1 January 1944 Degenkolb and Sawatzki delivered the first three rockets, all of which suffered from serious production defects.12° By the end of January, production had risen to 56 units and it Disintegration  Doom did not descend on the Third Reich with a single blow. It struck at irregular intervals and shifted from one theatre to another. In between, there were moments of relief during which Speer, Goebbels and the rest did their best to rekindle the flame of fanatical belief. July 1943 had seen a nightmarish coincidence of setbacks on every front: in the air war, in Italy and at Kursk. In the East, the six months that followed brought a seemingly endless retreat. Nevertheless, by frantic manoeuvring, Army Group South somehow managed to end 1943 still in control of the vital iron and metal ore deposits of the Ukraine.1 This kept alive the hopes of the German war economy, at least for a few more months. Even in Italy, Mussolini’s demise did not spell immediate calamity. Making best use of the impassable terrain and Allied caution, a modest Wehrmacht contingent of 20 divisions was able to stop the British 8th Army well short of Rome and to contain the under-strength American landing at Anzio.2 Meanwhile, as the autumn wore on, the nightmare of Hamburg lifted. Instead of concentrating on industrial targets in western Germany