h equal force of virtually any factory in Germany-or anywhere else in the world for that matter-at any time since the early 1930s. Indeed, Werner had been making his case to the Air Ministry for at least two years before he was finally taken up at the national level by Fritz Todt.26 His critique was brought to the fore only in October 1941, precisely at the moment at which it became apparent that there was neither manpower nor materials to realize the enormous expansion plans that Milch and Goering had embarked upon so confidently only a few months earlier. In this sense, it was the Luftwaffe that gave birth to the ‘rhetorical fix’ that was generalized by Hitler’s rationalization decree of 3 December to the entire armaments economy: minute attention to the production process would unlock virtually limitless output and enable Germany to transcend all resource constraints. The hard-headed Wer- ner, of course, had promised something far more modest. He had spoken about the possibility of raising output by perhaps 40 per cent.  ee ee te tits ee ee ee ae See oe cee = ote ee a A Oe oe  to be centred on Norway. Given the titanic production figures being touted by the britisn and Americans and the general infatuation with rordism in inter-war Lurope, sucn visions Nad an irresistibie and recurring appeal. They followed naturally in the giant footsteps left by Pleiger’s Salzgitter steel complex and Porsche's no less gargantuan VW plant at Fallersleben. the other. Werner’s critique of existing production practice could have been made with equal force of virtually any factory in Germany-or anywhere else in the world for that matter—at any time since Furthermore, as was obvious to all involved, mass-production of extremely complex machinery such as aircraft came at a price.2? Production had to be restricted to a limited number of models and these had to be ‘frozen’ for a sufficiently long period of time for the factories to gain significant economies of scale. There was therefor