cow.72 But, as logistical calculations in early November had predicted, they were far too weak to force a decision. The Ostheer (German Army in the East) had once more reached the limit of its transport capacity. It was impossible to sustain a major offensive against fierce Soviet opposition, at a distance of almost 500 kilometres from the forward supply dumps around Smolensk. The Ostheer was now in grave danger. No preparations had been made for active operations in the winter. Cold-weather stores had been provided only for a scaled-down occupation force and even these had not been brought forward because of the need to prioritize the transport of fuel and ammunition. Army Group Centre, where the bulk of German forces were concentrated, was completely exposed. In its drive on Moscow it had left no time to prepare adequate shelter and defensive positions for its troops. The front-line units were exhausted by months of non-stop fighting and more than a thousand kilometres of advance. With temperatures fall- Bp peaessey Se 6 SSO ee ES Ee eee Sea ite Saeme beg aoe Gees Se 2 See Ye ees Sees eS We beaks ese EERE ye TE SSS Sees VER anes VOCE Reese alee Ae Lee Serene. We Se ay wee Eee be done in the raw material field over the winter’62 The shortages were such as to render absurd the gigantic chemicals expansion schemes that Krauch had set out only a few weeks earlier. To provide of 35-40 million tons.£4 the Red Army would not be defeated in 1941. Faced with drastic cuts to its steel ration, the army procurement office panicked.S4 Without extra steel, it saw no possibility of resupplying the Ostheer to of shells and bullets had fallen to dangerously low levels.£5 If the Wehrmacht was to continue active operations in 1942, it desperately needed to replenish its stocks. Not only that, given the startling armed forces must be given what they demand.’6 Only two days after the OKW had announced the reallocation of steel away from the army, Hitler decreed that the Wehrmacht shou