y do not stand up to detailed scrutiny. Conversely, Speer’s success in increasing arma- ments output dramatically in his sector was due largely to a surge in ammunition output, b ained not by rationalization but by a dramatic mobilization of raw materials. Where rationalization clearly did play a crucial role was not in Speer aft  Aneta ne a1 2 teaked  =) — N AN wr wv +r tv ON ON ON ON — —_ = a = = 8 oO fea =) oe me) — © II a political issue of this magnitude should suggest the caution with which this topic should be approached. The simple story spun by Speer, that the German war economy up to 1941 was an inefficient ments output dramatically in his sector was due largely to a surge in ammunition output, best explained not by rationalization but by a dramatic mobilization of raw materials. Where rationalization clearly did play a crucial role was not in Speer’s sector but in the sphere of Erhard Milch and the Air Ministry. Between early 1942 and early 1943 the monthly output of aircraft more than doubled. But unlike in the army’s sector this increase in output took place with a much smaller increase in the labour force and no increase whatsoever in the allocation of raw aluminium. This certainly suggests very considerable efficiency gains. At the same time, a close inspection of the Luftwaffe’s production record also reveals the ambiguous complexity of the rationalization con- cept in Nazi industrial politics.8& As the leading new industry of metalworking in the 1930s, the aircraft-industrial complex of the Third Reich had been haunted from its inception by ‘American’ visions of rationalization and mass- production. As we have seen, the most bullish exponent of this ideology of mass-production was Heinrich Koppenberg, the man installed as CEO of Junkers in 1933. Koppenberg’s effort to construct a ‘Fordist’ aircraft firm had centred on the search for maximum scale of production and maximum vertical integration. The Ju 88 was sold to the Air Ministry in 1938 as an air