otal evacuation of the non-essential population. The remaining workforce was to be organized along para-military lines, uniformed and housed in camp accommodation so that they could be redeployed at a moment’s notice to whichever plants were still operational. 33 But all Speer could do was to limit the damage. He could not stop the bombers or prevent them from seriously disrupting the German war effort. Following the onset of heavy air raids in the first quarter of 1943, steel production fell by 200,000 tons. Having antici-  Page 594 of 800 73% EE Oe war effort. Even at the height of the Adolf Hitler Programme, the share of tanks in total armaments production did r not exceed 7 per cent. Meanwhile, other sectors were severely disadvantaged, both in practical and symbolic terms.2© Speer’s tank propaganda had its intended effect in focusing every German industrialist on the new top priority. Even if other programmes had high-priority rankings that it could reach 3 million monthly tons of steel by October 1944, rising to 3.25 million tons in April of 1945.22 On this basis, Speer expected armaments output to go on increasing, at the spectacu- the Ruhr’ began on 5 March with an attack on the industrial city of Essen, the home of Krupp.2? Between 8.58 p.m. and 9.36 p.m., following the invisible beam of the OBOE electronic guidance system, workforce with well-advertised displays of personal bravery.22 The Ruhr was raised from the status of the home front to that of a war zone. Speer established a special emergency staff with absolute housed in camp accommodation so that they could be redeployed at a moment’s notice to whichever plants were still operational. 32 But all Speer could do was to limit the damage. He could not stop pated an increase in total steel production to more than 2.8 million tons per month and allocated steel accordingly, the Zentrale Planung now faced a shortfall of almost 400,000 tons. All the painstak- ing effort that had gone into reorganizing the ra