rmination phase of the Final Solution— no more than 475,000 survived the war.22 This implies the death of at least 1.1 million workers, at least 800,000 of whom do not also number amongst the victims of the Holocaust. Of the 1.95 million to the ‘clearance’ of the Jewish population of the General Government, a population estimated at the Wannsee conference to include no less than 2.28 million people. Here, too, ‘Selektion’ was the first principle of the operation. In the Lublin district, presided over by Odilo Globocnik, the Jewish council was instructed in early 1942 to issue identity cards and to draw up lists of all Jews ‘that do not work productively’.32 According to an entry in Goebbels’s diary in the spring of 1942, the assumption was that ‘60 per cent will have to be liquidated, whereas only 40 per cent can still be employed as labour’.40  The fate initially intended for the group selected for labour seems to have been that outlined by Heydrich at the Wannsee conference. They were to be separated by sex and were to be worked to death on the far-flung building sites of the Generalplan Ost. At least until the autumn of 1942, the Generalplan was very much a live proposition. On 16 July 1942 Himmler visited his masseur and confidant Felix Kersten in an enthusiastic mood. His elation was due to a meeting a few days earlier, at which he had presented Hitler with the final version of the Generalplan, complete with maps and architectural plans for German peasant villages. With his armies roaring towards the Caucasus in the Wehrmacht’s last great summer offensive, Hitler was again convinced that the war in the East would soon be won. As Himmler reported it: ‘The Fuehrer not only listened to me, he even refrained from constant interruptions, as is his usual habit . .. today he went so far as to approve of my In these documents, the SS present themselves as a committed minority forcing the programme of Judaeocide down the throats of an uncomprehending military administra