rmy was the most dramatic expression.13 In France in 1940 the Wehrmacht had strategic economic considerations would take priority. If Germany was to face a long war on two fronts it was essential to secure full control of the grain and raw materials of the Ukraine, as well as complete command of the Baltic, without which Germany could not guarantee its deliveries of iron ore from Scandinavia. There was certainly cause for strategic concern in the late summer of 1941.16 Following the announcement of lend-lease, the Anglo-American alliance showed every sign of further consolidation. In July the United States occupied Iceland to further extend its coverage of the Atlantic shipping lanes.1Z Shooting encounters between the German and American navy were occurring on a monthly basis. Like the Luftwaffe, the German navy watched the dramatic expansion in American production with mounting concern. Unless it could soon begin an all-out attack on the Atlantic shipping lanes and begin in earnest the process of starving the British out, the huge capacity of America’s dockyards would be in a position to negate any losses that the U-boats might inflict.18 On 14 August 1941 the United States sealed its irrevocable commitment to the British war effort with the announcement of the Atlantic Charter. Churchill had hoped for an American declaration of war. Roosevelt could not go so far. But in Berlin, the outbreak of open war with the United States was now considered only a matter of time. And Hitler was no longer thinking in the long term.12 From the summer of 1941 onwards he spoke of war with the United States as being merely a matter of months away, ideally to begin after the successful conclusion of the Eastern operation. Everything, however, depended on the Japanese.22 The U-boats could sink American shipping in the Atlantic. But Japan with its powerful and modern navy was Germany’s only hope of countering the might of the American fleet. For  tha cama ranean Tanan ure alon Carmanti