he Jaegerstab, the murderous violence of the SS police state was imported directly into the war economy. Tens of thousands of out-of-date fighters were squeezed out of Germany’s factories in the first half of 1944 by mobilizing all available labour and materials, applying virtually limitless powers of repression and exploiting every possibility for economies of scale. In the summer of 1944, Speer and the Jaegerstab maintained a telephone hotline to the ramp at Auschwitz, where SS guards were re processing the Jews of Hungary, the last st great population to be fed to the gas chambers. It was in the dank, deathly gloom of Hans Kammler’s ee ee ee Oe a ee ane t  Page 667 of 800 82% the calories and protein necessary to fuel Albert Speer’s armaments miracle. As we showed in Chapter 16, in the summer of 1942 even the wholesale gassing of the Jews of Poland was made to servea hotline to the ramp at Auschwitz, where SS guards were processing the Jews of Hungary, the last great population to be fed to the gas chambers. It was in the dank, deathly gloom of Hans Kammler’s underground factories that the Third Reich made its final futile bid to match the Americans in mass-production. Hitler had prophesied that if Germany did not prevail against its enemies, it would face a national catastrophe unlike anything in modern history. From 1942 onwards he and his collaborators, Albert Speer chief amongst them, steered Germany directly towards this outcome. Even now, the damage inflicted by Hitler’s regime and by his futile war is almost unbearable to contemplate. Decades after the event, the memory of the harm done-to the population of Europe, to the physical fabric of daily life, to the very idea of European civilization-is still enough to inspire feelings of despair, rage and resentment, and not only on the part of Germany’s victims. Here is not the place to attempt a review of this horror. But since economic historians have ways of making disasters, such as that which Germany broug