ers for Germany, but their productive potential was being wasted by the utterly inad- equate diet allocated to them by the Reich Food Ministry. At a meeting with DAF officials in early September, Sauckel stamped his foot. The Fuehrer himself had made clear that it was completely unacceptable for anybody to be starving on the territory of Germany, when the Wehrmacht had full control of the Ukraine. If the rations of both Germans and Ostarbeiter were not immediately in- creased there would be ‘a scandal of the greatest proportions’. And Sauckel would stop at nothing: ‘He would find ways and means to make use of the Ukrainian grain and cattle, even if he had to set up all the Jews of Europe as a human conveyor belt to move packing cases out of the Ukraine’21 The threat of the concentration camp, physical intimidation and ‘performance feeding’ all offered micro-solutions to the crisis of the foreign labour programme in 1942. But, if Sauckel’s recruits were to be used efficiently, there clearly needed to be an improvement in the overall situation of the food supply. If the ration cuts of spring 1942 were sustained, or even repeated in the autumn as some feared, there would be a chronic and irreversible decline in the productivity of both German and foreign workers and an increasingly serious problem of public order. Everything depended on reversing the decline in Germany’s food stocks and the political leadership of the Nazi regime was fully aware of this imperative. The food crisis of 1942 precipitated a restructuring at the top of the Third Reich, which is crucial to understanding the history of the Nazi war economy. As we have already noted, it isa commonplace to contrast the appointment of the ‘technocratic’ Albert Speer with the choice of Gauleiter Sauckel as GBA. What this false contrast obscures is the no less significant shift in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture.22 Following the disastrous ration cut of April 1942, Hitler took the  hich ly uninenal ctan af ra