in Germany, thie Gern- ‘In the General Government there are currently still 3.5 million Jews. Poland is to be sanitized within the coming year.’24 Eliminating the Jews would not only reduce the number of people that needed the Gauleiter at which they gave vent to the festering resentment in the German population.2“ The next day, Goering announced the full scope of Backe’s new food programme to representatives from regions... such as we never had during the last world war, and yet I have to give a bread ration to the German people which can no longer be justified. I have had foreign workers brought to Germany from all regions, and these foreign workers, regardless of where they come from, declared that they had better food at home than here in Germany . . . The Fuehrer repeatedly said, and I repeat after German population starves in any way, others must .. . pay’122 The first group to do so would be the Jews. Whereas the Polish ration was to be cut off in March 1943, the feeding of 1.2 million Jews was second half of August, with Warsaw under a ‘lock-down’ and the population of the ghetto being shipped to Treblinka, Joseph Goebbels, in his capacity as Gauleiter of Berlin, made a personal visit to the General Government to secure an increased suvplv of vegetables for the population of the German capital. In his opening speech for the winter charitv drive at the end of September 1942. Hitler made SEL CULIVE YEU A ULACUII ALL COOL U2 LIOLL UME LIUTIS CULILEL IIE LLIE LIAL VEOL, WilILTL Wad LLU WW ULLLY WEEKS AWAY. 122 LIIE ISTO LALNSIUVELIIIIOLIL, CITE LAU LUE Baill Wao LU VE PULPOSUS Witlt CULIPICLE LULL oolitos. FUL the entire month of August, the city of Warsaw was to be sealed off from its agricultural hinterland. Peasants who failed to meet their delivery quotas were to be summarily shot.25 Copies of this latter the Gauleiter at which they gave vent to the festering resentment in the German population.22 The next day, Goering announced the full scope of Backe’s new