umstances we can- not afford not to consider the population in food terms. But where are we supposed to get anything from?§2 German army was the requisitioning of food.62 The troops plundered huge quantities of grain, livestock and dairy produce. Nevertheless, the German armies were not able to sustain themselves at the eastwards from Germany. But given the inadequacy of the transport infrastructure even this was not enough. Army Group Centre never suffered hunger to compare with that which haunted the So- viet forces opposing them. But during the winter of 1941-2, with the transport system in disarray, many German soldiers did go without rations for days and sometimes weeks on end.$= front line severed millions of Soviet citizens from their main sources of food, thereby freeing the Ukrainian harvest for German use. The Soviets were forced to feed their war effort from what little remained of Soviet agriculture. The result, behind the Soviet lines, was ever-present hunger and in many cases, outright starvation, a situation exemplified most dramatically by the besieged city of Leningrad.£6 The German and Finnish pincers closed around Leningrad in early October 1941. Two and a half million civilians and soldiers were trapped in a giant encirclement. Uncertain about the situation of the Soviet defenders, the German 18th Army, which had responsibility for the siege, began canvassing options for dealing with the population.£2 The army’s staff proposed three possibil- ities: encircle the city and ‘starve the lot’ (alles verhungert); evacuate the civilians westwards into the German zone of occupation; or arrange for their evacuation behind Soviet lines. The memo pre- sented no decision, but set out the advantages and disadvantages of each option. Starving the population of Leningrad to death would eliminate a large number of Communists and would relieve the Germans of the burden of feeding millions of people. The only real disadvantage was propagandistic. The foreign media