ered the conflict. And the British, whose entire war fighting strategy depended on the United States, were repeatedly frustrated in their hope of an American declaration of war.82 But, given the seemingly inexorable latter half of 1941. He made the connection explicitly in August 1941. He did so again in late October after the deportation of German Jewry had begun.8! On 12 August, as Roosevelt and Churchill bitter price.’82 And the same theme recurred two weeks later during Mussolini's visit to Hitler’s headquarters in the Ukraine, when the Fuehrer regaled his captive audience with a ‘detailed analysis of Given these dark forces at work behind the scenes, the question was not whether Germany would have to face the awesome industrial might of the United States but how soon and on what terms. In this calculation, as had been clear since the autumn of 1940 at the latest, the crucial consideration was Japan. Ribbentrop, for one, favoured enlisting the Japanese as allies against Russia. But for Hitler this was secondary. Even after the failure of Taifun, Hitler remained convinced that the Wehrmacht could win the battle against the Red Army alone. Though the full extent of the Moscow debacle did not become apparent until late December, Hitler retained this confidence even in 1942. The failure of the Ostheer in the winter of 1941 was principally a failure of leadership that Hitler would now personally put right. Indeed, Hitler seems to have regarded the battle on the Eastern Front as a test of the entire German nation. As he put it at the end of January 1942: ‘If the German people is not ready to fully commit itself to the struggle for its survival, that’s fine: then it should disappear!’84 The question in relation to Japan, as it had been since 1938, was whether the Japanese were willing to undertake offensive operations against the British and American positions in Asia and the Pacific. The logic of pre-emption that we have traced through Hitler’s actions since the summe