ch the armaments effort was impelled by a strategic rationale with some degree of plausibility. And despite the crisis of confidence following the defeat at Moscow in December 1941, it was this element of plausibility that ensured that the German war effort in 1942 was still sustained by a widely based consensus that embraced both the economic elite and the majority of the workforce.22 And Speer certainly needed all the help he could get.  When he was appointed Armaments Minister in February 1942 Speer’s sphere was no more extensive than that of Fritz Todt. Speer did not control the entirety of the armaments economy, let alone the rest of the industrial economy. His immediate authority extended only to the equipment needs of the army. Only in the field of ammunition did Speer have overarching responsibility for all three services. Until the summer of 1943, his writ extended to about 45 per cent of the armaments effort, consuming perhaps one-sixth of industrial output.23 As we have seen, the procurement bureaucrats of the army had already seen their sphere of responsibility substantially curtailed by Todt’s appointment in 1940. The chief victim of Speer’s rise to power in 1942 was the military-economic office of the Wehrmacht, headed by General Thomas, which was broken up and stripped of any pretension to overarching leadership in the war economy.24 Both the navy and the Luftwaffe, however, retained their autonomous procurement authorities. The navy was not incorporated into Speer’s sphere of control until June 1943. The Luftwaffe, which by itself accounted for 35-40 per cent of the entire armaments effort, retained its autonomous industrial organization until the spring of 1944, and in this sphere it was Erhard Milch not Albert Speer who called the shots. Given this distribution of WELEIUULE LELLOL LOL ELI WY LELe SALLIE. 2 ALD WAS VEER GLELIG SEL WV ASI LED WV ELEN PLGALLIOOM LORELEI UME UE OLASE 1ALIA SCLC CUE OE LL UIE CULE MULL. ROCESS UU US VLUINGLE ALI OPEL LA