Public procurement officials had no interest in leaving their contractors with ‘unnecessary’ profits that had been earned by employing cheap labour supplied at the expense of the Reich. But the complex set of connections between labour costs, productivity and prices is fully documented in only a handful of cases, one of which was the Loibl tunnel, which connects Carinthia in Austria with Slovenia. Detailed cost accounts compiled by Universale Hoch und Tiefbau AG, a prime contractor that employed a multi-national workforce of 800 inmates from the Mauthausen concentration camp, show that their productivity was on average 40 per cent lower than that of German labour. Nevertheless, even allowing for the full cost of remunerating the SS, providing extra security personnel, replacing those workers who were too weak to work and providing bonuses, the concentration camp inmates were still more profitable to employ than non-inmate labour. The contractor, however, was not permitted to retain all of this surplus profit. To allow for the services provided by the SS prisoners, the Reich claimed an automatic reduction in the contract price, finely calculated at 3.515 per cent. Table 16. The economics of slave labour Page 531 of 800 65% that every effort should be made to provide inmate labour to the armaments factories.£2 And Himmler did not hold back. By the end of 1944, it is estimated, Himmler’s camps provided the German the Organisation Todt, which was responsible for construction in the occupied territories, and 230,000 were hired out to private industry.£4 was precisely that they were able to offer their industrial clients an apparently limitless flow of new inmates. Here too, Selektion was the crucial term.£2 So long as the SS supervisors carried out regular for employers to make at least some effort to stabilize their inmate labour force. At Auschwitz, IG Farben negotiated with the SS to provide food supplements as premiums.®& On the other hand, when punishment was necess