d been initiated in the autumn of 1940 and continued well into 1943.  By the same token, however, the agglomeration of resources in the pursuit of ‘efficiency’ and ‘scale’ was also one of the principal drivers of internecine industrial competition, entirely incompatible with the efficient management of the overall war effort. After almost a decade of experience with the ruthless egotism of Germany’s aircraft producers, Erhard Milch in the Air Ministry was all too aware of this. In advance of the Luftwaffe’s great expansion programme of the summer of 1941, Milch therefore initiated a series of changes to the governance of the aircraft industry that were to prove crucial to his later efforts at rationalization. 82 In May 1941, ten months before Speer took office, Milch set up the industrial council of the Air Ministry (Industrierat), in which the aircraft procurement 1941 Hitler even went so far as to issue a decree making rationalization into a top priority for the German war effort.8> The fact that the ordinary business of production engineers had been turned into the tank complex near Linz.82 The advantages of concentrating production on a handful of gigantic factories were real. The ability of both the United States and the Soviet Union to operate truly plans of the Ministry were subject to a process of peer review. As a quasi-parliamentary body, it acted as a powerful check on the effort of individual firms to exert undue influence on the Ministry. Then, in a spectacular series of corporate coups, he cut major producers down to size. Junkers and BMW were the first to be subjected to the new regime. After a series of disasters in the development of radial engines, BMW was placed under the supervision of William Werner, an efficiency expert recruited from the car maker Auto-Union.22 At Junkers, Koppenberg was unceremoniously shunted into retirement. Junkers itself was subject to a tight new regime of financial oversight. At Messerschmitt, Milch exploited Willy Mess