t is both obscene and inaccurate.14 This was a war, not a massacre of the innocents. It may have felt like slaughter to those on the meeting with Hitler on 29/30 March.15 There is no authentic record of this encounter, only the mocking commentary of Goebbels’s diary and Speer’s unreliable memoirs. It seems that Hitler extracted v0)  The End  The jaws of defeat finally closed on the Third Reich in the last week of April 1945. Just before midday on 25 April advanced patrols of the US 1st Army’s 69th infantry division and the Soviet 1st Ukrainian Army linked up on the banks of the Elbe at the small Saxon town of Strehla amidst the gruesome wreckage of a German refugee trek. The banks of the river, where Lieutenant Albert Kotzebue’s GIs embraced their Soviet counterparts, were littered with the dismembered corpses of dozens of old men, women and children. Three days earlier they had fallen victim to retreating Wehrmacht soldiers, who had been so desperate to escape capture by the Red Army that they had blown up the makeshift pontoon bridge whilst hundreds of civilians were still streaming across it. As many as four hundred may have drowned or been blown to pieces by the twin detonations.  Not surprisingly, the official occasion for the world-defining Soviet-American encounter was shifted 45 kilometres downstream to the town of Torgau, where contact was made later the same afternoon. The official nhotosranh on Torgat’s hroken-hacked hridse was staged the follawine dav. Cantrived though it mav have heen. the handshake was hiehlv sienificant. Along the course of the meeting with Hitler on 29/30 March.195 There is no authentic record of this encounter, only the mocking commentary of Goebbels’s diary and Speer’s unreliable memoirs. It seems that Hitler extracted afternoon. The official photograph on Torgau’s broken-backed bridge was staged the following day. Contrived though it may have been, the handshake was highly significant. Along the course of the Elbe, Torgau lay midw