ng in upon a man as level-headed as Walter Rohland 1s evidence of the acute sense of crisis pervading the leadership of the Third Reich. It is no Whilst Speer established himself in his new office, General Fromm, who retained responsibility for the army’s manpower and armaments, was desperate that Hitler should face military realities.107 Command was to destroy fifty-eight of Germany’s largest towns and cities, ‘dehousing’ at least 22 million people.142 In line with the expansive goals of the Victory Programme, the Americans took the Doundiless source of power and a potentially war-winning explosive device. Fromm, as the head of the German army weapons office, was fully apprised of the project's potential, but considered it long- 16 Labour, Food and Genocide PAW nt a tee tt ant ne anne ee nnn nt ee et a a nn nn te en a kd ne ee 8 et ete te Page 509 of 800 62% ee IN IIE OE OO I IIIA OIE EOIN ENA ILE IDA. OLED IY IDLE OSA INI IR OIE IIE NIE EE EE ODIII AE” EE er “alter, — rene” a, — eater, ena Following the military crisis of 1941—2, manpower was the overwhelming preoccupation of the German war economy. In its vain effort to match the Red Army, backed by a population twice the size of Germany’s, the Third Reich engaged in a war of attrition unlike that experienced by any of the Western powers. Figure 19 shows the most concentrated index of this haemorrhage. In the three years between June 1941 and May 1944, the average rate of loss for the Wehrmacht was almost 60,000 men killed every month on the Eastern Front. In the last twelve months of the war, the blood-letting reached truly extraordinary proportions.4 The way in which the Third Reich responded to this catastrophic drain of manpower was to become one of the defining features of Hitler’s regime. As we have seen, the Wehrmacht had already reached the bottom of the manpower barrel at the time of Barbarossa. By the autumn of 1941 there were virtually no men in their twenties who had not already been conscripted. Fres