erg’s effort to construct a ‘Fordist’ aircraft firm had centred on the search for maximum scale of production and maximum vertical integration. The Ju 88 was sold to the Air Ministry in 1938 as an aircraft specifically conceived for mass-production. In 1940, in direct response to the American threat, Koppenberg followed this up with his grandiose plans for a 1,000-engine aero-engine plant and a huge aluminium complex to be centred on Norway. Given the titanic production figures being touted by the British and Americans and the general infatuation with Fordism in inter-war Europe, such visions had an irresistible Page 576 of 800 71% S N fag) Tr rT +r ON ON ON —_ — — Fa run ra 5 Ss) 5) and recurring appeal. They followed naturally in the giant footsteps left by Pleiger’s Salzgitter steel complex and Porsche’s no less gargantuan VW plant at Fallersleben.  Though risks of failure were correspondingly huge, as exemplified by white elephants such as the failed ‘1,000-engine plant’ in Austria, the drive for scale was not mere illusion. As we have seen, Daimler-Benz’s aero-engine plant at Genshagen was successfully expanded to a capacity in excess of 1,000 engines per month at very reasonable cost. There were other success stories, too, such as the tank complex near Linz.8? The advantages of concentrating production on a handful of gigantic factories were real. The ability of both the United States and the Soviet Union to operate truly enormous production facilities, out of the range of enemy bombers, clearly contributed to the productivity advantage that they enjoyed over both Germany and Britain.88 Though on a smaller scale, the production records both of Milch’s Air Ministry and Speer’s Armaments Ministry would not have been possible but for the investment programmes that had been initiated in the autumn of 1940 and continued well into 1943.  By the same token, however, the agglomeration of resources in the pursuit of ‘efficiency’ and ‘scale’ was also one of the principa