idanca in tha Cammance 107 Darhanc tha Rritich micht vat ha driven aut af tha war Meanurhila the Acthaar anneaarad ta hava racavarad fram ite chack af tha urintar 108 Page 584 of 800 72% 2 — wr t+ + + oy ON lo bo | = = | g a is°) is) vo —, —— jan, > 1,000 4,000 last phase of the war in which the Axis powers could dictate the pace and intensity of the fighting.196 Up to the summer of 1942, it seemed as though Hitler’s greatest gamble, his alliance with Japan against the United States, might actually pay off. In early 1942 the Japanese swept unchecked into Burma, Malaya, Indonesia and the Philippines dealing a death blow, if not to America, then at taking Tobruk on 21 June 1942 and advancing rapidly towards Egypt. With Britain stumbling from one disaster to the next, it seemed that Hitler might still realize his fondest dream. Churchi a motion of no confidence in the Commons.127 Perhaps the British might yet be driven out of the war. Meanwhile, the Ostheer appeared to have recovered from its shock of the winter.108 In May 1942 the Wehrmacht swatted aside a botched Soviet offensive towards Kharkov, yielding a haul of almost a quarter of a million prisoners. A few weeks later, General Manstein took a further 150,000 prisoners in the Crimea. The German army that began the great southern offensive on 28 June was weaker in every respect than that which had invaded the Soviet Union a year earlier. first, Army Group South made astonishing progress. Stalin had deployed his remaining reserves, not in the South but in defence of Moscow. For the  east to  1 faced  But, at  Russian units facing the main thrust of the German  attack the overriding priority was to avoid any further encirclement. By the last week of July 1942 1st Panzer Army had stormed Rostov and the southern sector of the Soviet line was showing signs of disintegration. Buoyed by these early successes, Hitler split Army Group South into two prongs. The weaker northern flank drove due east towards Stalingrad on the