he choice between traditional or progressive, primitive or modern, can only be resolved in favour of a healthy, communally conscious idea of progress and performance. This implies a clear decision in favour of struggle as opposed to those ... who see the salvation of the peasantry in the protection of a nature reserve. There can be no return to the ‘good old days’. It is therefore best to give up complaining about the fact that the ‘old peasantry’ is gone and to affirm the new peasantry of the Third Reich and to fight for it.26  The vision that inspired the German colonial project in the East had more in common with the American ideology of the frontier than it did with the Middle Ages. In the autumn of 1941 Hitler returned  Page 465 of 800 57% eee —E—E—_ —_—_ ee OO TO eee eeeeE_—eee—eeeEee eee EE eeeEEeEeEE_—EEE—EEEeEEeeEEE_ TET — —_—— annihilation’ of entire populations, not only the Jewish minority, but the Poles and Ukrainians as well.2© Any moral consideration had long ago been set aside. The question was one of practicalities. Zamos¢ evacuation was not a success. The efforts by the SS to round up the inhabitants met with intense armed resistance and required the mobilization of thousands of German police, troops and of the General Government, the Zamos¢ experiment was small in scale. However, it was highly significant in indicating the full extent of the Third Reich’s genocidal ambition. The Generalplan Ost set on acommercial basis, were ... anything but Romantics. They were cool calculators and stemmed in considerable numbers from the commercial classes.’22 Nor was the project impractical or ‘merely that the ‘old peasantry’ is gone and to affirm the new peasantry of the Third Reich and to fight for it.2& repeatedly to the American example in discussing Germany’s future in the East. The Volga, he declared, would be Germany’s Mississippi. And the bloody conquest of the American West provided Ger- many with the historical warrant it needed to justify the clearan