our Year Plan come and go. He had no time for Speer’s loose talk of armaments miracles, or for his managerial style of ‘organized improvisation’.©2 As the man most closely involved entire department should subordinate themselves to the Reich Armaments Ministry, Kehrl responded by asking him for an explanation as to the wider strategic purpose of the German war effort.61 with Speer’s design would be construed as tantamount to desertion.£3 Over the following months, Kehr] and his raw-materials staff were duly merged into the Armaments Ministry, where Kehrl also at the annual gathering of the Gauleiter at the town hall conference centre in Posen, the capital of the Warthegau.£© The programme of speeches on 6 October 1943 was extremely heavy. Apart from to that. ‘Since the beginning of the air attacks, Speer explained, ‘we have, it is sure, had a slow rise in production but only about 3 to 5 per cent monthly. That is absolutely insufficient.’68 In fact, Speer enemy had to do, but today the enemy dictates to us with his production what we have to do. And if we do not follow this dictation by the enemy then, in the long run, the front cannot hold. What Speer demanded was that the Gauleiter should assist him in mobilizing the last reserves of the civilian economy. No cooperation could be expected from the industrialists in the consumer goods industries. ‘The business groups are, in their present constellation, mainly the representatives of the large firms, Speer said. ‘Now when the large firms in these consumer industries are to be eliminated, one lie after another is sent to me. Everything I am told is a lie, whether it comes from the printing industry, paper production or from the textile industry, from beginning to end nothing but lies and deceptions.’ Furthermore, they enjoyed political protection, because scarce consumer durables such as refrigerators and radios made excellent bribes. To put an end to this scandalous situ- ation, Speer announced that he was appointing