n Berlin at which, for the first time, all the major industrialists and managers of the war effort were decorated for their services to the German nation.15 Speer showered his audience with spectacular statistics, claiming a sixfold increase in ammunition production and a fourfold increase  Page 552 of 800 67% ele Ata aaa “Aaa aaa” areas” iacaiariaeiacartatiarine iinet aaa, Mae ian iia” aia imines, — iia: aa ruthlessness. He was closely allied both with Fritz Todt and, through Erhard Milch, with Goering’s Air Ministry. From the late 1930s onwards he also enjoyed a cooperative working relationship with new dynamism of the war economy and its intimate connection to the Wehrmacht, an image to be transmitted to the entire nation in a series of newsreels. As Speer put it to journalists in June 1943, in artillery production since 1941. The production of anti-tank guns had quadrupled and the delivery of tanks in May 1943 was according to Speer 12.5 times greater than on average in 1941. But insiders noted that Speer gave no absolute figures.16 He made no mention of the fact that his indices were calculated with reference to well-chosen periods in 1941 when production had been particu- larly low, and he ignored altogether the fact that Germany’s production records were entirely eclipsed by the overwhelming mass of material being thrown against Germany by its enemies.  To insist on the ideological function of Speer’s ‘armaments miracle’ is, of course, by no means to imply that it was ‘mere’ illusion. At least until the summer of 1944, the statistical rhetoric was not fraudulent. Armaments output did go up. Indeed, the peculiar importance of the Speer story to the propaganda machine lay precisely in the fact that this was one aspect of the news that the regime could still control. Whereas Goebbels was becoming painfully aware of the difficulty of managing bad military news, the German armaments effort at least until the spring of 1943 developed largely without interference by