ee ee ee ee eee nee ee ee nee ee eee eee ne een ee ee en eee eee ee een ee in nee ee ee ne eee en ene ee eee eee ee een ee eee en ee en eee een eee een en nn ee ee ee een ee ene ee eee ee OO OE I OE Other 8 i)  The settlement in the East was directly coupled with the efforts of the RNS to bring about the wholesale rationalization of agriculture within Germany, announced by Darré at the end of 1940.32 In the words of an early planning document, it was assumed that ‘the constructive effort in the East will... permit the final reconstruction of the areas of partible inheritance in the old Reich. From Wuerttemberg and Baden alone 100,000 peasant and craftsmen families will be made available.’31 From the summer of 1940 onwards teams of experts from the Reichsnaehr-stand, under the direc- tion of the ubiquitous Professor Meyer, undertook a comprehensive inventory of rural Germany.32 In painstaking local enquiries they evaluated a sample of 4,500 German villages with a combined population of 5 million inhabitants. In every village, every farm was graded according to its viability. In future no farm would be acceptable in Germany that did not yield a money income of at least 3,000 Reichsmarks per annum, placing the farming family comfortably above the median point in the national income distribution. In practice this meant that farms would need to have a minimum size of 18 hectares, in some regions closer to 30. In areas of partible inheritance such as the Rhineland, upwards of 30 per cent of all farms were designated for consolidation or liquidation. If it had been possible to disregard local sensibilities altogether, the rate of consolidation would have been closer to 50 per cent. And Meyer’s teams graded not only the farms but also the farming population. Hard- working farmers who lacked land were to be assisted by the consolidation of smaller holdings taken from part-time farmers or less adequate cultivators. Young families of good German stock would be  am aniien end t