y excuse’: You all accept happily the obvious fact that there are no more Jews in your province. All Germans, with very few exceptions, realize perfectly well that we couldn't have lasted through the bombs and the stresses of the fourth, perhaps in the future the fifth and even sixth year of the war, if this destructive pestilence were still present within our body politic. The brief sentence ‘The Jews must be exterminated’ is easy to pronounce, but the demands on those who have to put it into practice are the hardest and most difficult in the world... I ask that you only listen but never speak of what Iam saying to you here today. We, you see, were faced with the question, ‘What to do about the women and children?’ . .. The hard decision had to be taken to have this people disappear from the face of the earth. For the organization which had to carry out this order, it was the most difficult one we were ever given... 1 consider it my duty to speak to you, who are the highest dignitaries of the party, of our a ee ee ee ee ee wee ate 2 et a Fr) ee are  Page 605 of 800 74% a tena , — eeet “tc a “tltaeee™ aa ae, — eeaets e, — i eae  impose the closures from Berlin, ‘“.. and I can assure you that I am quite prepared in this case to assert the Reich’s authority at all costs. I have spoken to Reichsfuehrer SS Himmler and I shall now deal  exterminated’ is easy to pronounce, but the demands on those who have to put it into practice are the hardest and most difficult in the world... 1 ask that you only listen but never speak of what Iam political order, the Fuehrer’s political instrument, for once quite openly about this question .. . to tell you how it was. By the end of this year, the matter of the Jews will have been dealt with in the countries under our occupation... You will not doubt that the economic aspect presented many great difficulties, above all in the clearing of ghettos: in Warsaw we fought street battles for four weeks... Because that ghetto produced fur coat