anes every month, Milch could see  only two possibilities for me and for Germany: either we succeed and thereby save Germany, or we continue these slipshod methods and get the fate that we deserve. I prefer to... [be]... doing something that is against the rules but that is right and sensible and be called to account for it and, if you like, hanged, rather than be hanged because Papa Stalin is here in Berlin, or the Englishman. I have no desire for that ... We are in the fifth year of war. I repeat: the decision will come within the next six weeks!18  The first key to increased production was clearly an increased work-rate. Across the aircraft and aero-engine facilities, a seventy-two-hour week was the norm from the spring of 1944 onwards. ee Ee ee eee ee ee ee there is nothing but this one task. We are fanatics in this sphere... No order exists which could prevent me from fulfilling this task. Nor shall I ever be given such an order ... do not let anything deter On the model of the Adolf Hitler Programme this gruelling pace of work was sustained by supplying favoured employees with extra rations of food, sweets, cigarettes and spirits, pullovers, warm underwear, socks and even special allocations of vitamin pills.12 These bonuses, however, were reserved in large measure for the German workforce and the very best performing foreigners. For the rest, Milch and Saur offered only the most severe discipline. Foreign workers, Milch complained, run away. They do not keep to any contract. There are difficulties with Frenchmen, Italians, Dutch. The prisoners of war are... unruly and fresh. These people are also supposed to be carrying on sabotage. These elements cannot be made more efficient by small means. They are just not handled strictly enough. If a decent foreman would sock one of those unruly guys because the fellow won't work, SAP SM VV SEES REDE MEE PLAULALY SLE LAE WLELALS AL LLALAACLLLS VALUE by VALE VVEL EM LU LANG ALLY SALE AOE LEELA Y EM LALO PLUM LAU EE, BALE