s to establish an independent construction administration of the SS. columns would begin the enormous construction programme called for by Meyer’s Generalplan. Meanwhile, Reinhard Heydrich’s RSHA worked both on the outline plan for the Final Solution and a received no criticism. By contrast, the second rough draft of the Generalplan Ost, which addressed itself not to the Jewish minority but to the far larger non-Jewish populations of Poland and the Soviet Union, was subject to such fierce attacks from within the Reich’s administration that the task of preparing the plan was transferred back from the RSHA to Professor Meyer of the RKF.1& Meyer com- pleted his final draft in May 1942 and after consultation with Hitler, it was approved by Himmler in July 1942 as the outline for future SS settlement activity in the East.12 It provides what is effectively a blueprint for the kind of social order that the SS leadership hoped to create in Eastern Europe. The first and most fundamental assumption of all SS territorial planning from 1939 onwards was the assumption that the integration of Eastern European territory as German Lebensraum required the removal of the vast majority of the native population. Meyer’s Generalplan did not speak specifically of the Jews, but their removal was clearly taken for granted. Only in Poland and the Ukraine did the Jews constitute a minority large enough for their removal to significantly alter the population balance. Meyer addressed himself primarily to the majority Slav population. For Poland he foresaw the removal of 80-85 per cent of the native population. This was to be followed by the expulsion of 64 per cent of the population of the Ukraine and 75 per cent of the White Russian population.18 The Russian territory around Leningrad was to be completely depopulated. The various drafts of the Generalplan differed in their estimates as to the actual numbers involved, but the lowest figure was 31 million displaced People, not including the Jew