tions that in some way lead to an exterminatory success in particular in connection with large measures to be discussed at the Reich-level. The General Government must become just as “Jewfree” as the Reich.’82 What precisely those ‘large measures’ were remains unclear. But when he addressed the civil servants in Wannsee on 20 January 1942 the suggestion that Heydrich made was that they should be worked to death on the transport infrastructure of the Generalplan Ost.22  Given the firmness of his ideological framework and his fatalistic willingness to gamble, Hitler was not unnerved by the global constellation of December 1941. The alliance of Britain and the Soviet Union backed by the United States was the strategic nightmare with which General Ludwig Beck had tried to scare him in 1937. But since then he had marched from triumph to triumph. The Wehr- macht had eliminated France and driven Britain off the Continent. The Red Army was severely weakened, if not destroyed. Germany did now face the United States as a combatant, but, unlike the Kaiser in 1917, Hitler had Japan as a firm military ally.21 Even if the Japanese were eventually to succumb to the United States they had at least committed themselves by the Treaty of 11 December  not to seek a separate peace. As we have seen, Hitler since 1939 had repeatedly and emphatically stressed the time-factor. His decision to declare war on the United States in December 1941 was one mare calenlated camhle acainct time 22 And there were thace in the German military leadershin wha chared Hitler’s antimistic autlank 23 The relief clearly felt hv hath the Wehrmacht hich eammand latter half of 1941. He made the connection explicitly in August 1941. He did so again in late October after the deportation of German Jewry had begun.81 On 12 August, as Roosevelt and Churchill met in Placentia Bay, Newfoundland, Hitler could hardly have been more explicit. To the Spanish ambassador he declared: ‘The main guilty parties in this war... a