towards Rzhev at the heart of Army Group Centre.118 As Fromm had already spelled out in February 1942, the Ostheer was running out of manpower. Since starting its offensive, Army Group South had suffered 280,000 losses, of which only half had been replaced. All told, Halder expected a deficit of 750,000 soldiers by November 1942, more than the entire cohort of teenagers to be expected by the end of the year.112 And the situation was made even worse at the end of August, when the Soviet Northern Front launched a massive attempt to break the encirclement of Leningrad.12° Army Group North did manage to seal off the Soviet penetration and eventually to destroy the attacking Soviet force. But it did so at the cost of at least 26,000 casualties, negating any hope Hitler might have had of crushing the Soviet defences in the city.421 At the end of September 1942 General Fromm, as chief of the army’s armaments supply, submitted a memorandum to Hitler demanding a negotiated end to the war as the only way of saving Germany from disaster. Fromm had a close working relationship with Speer, who was fully informed of Fromm’s views. But Speer remained silent. Hitler was in no mood for defeatism.  Dee thn nnd Af Ont nw bne La Lad ened nnd Tala ne 25 ALIA AE nt AA Denne ween eee ae Lin ween tn en litinnl ALIA 199 which announced that ‘in a campaign of little more than three weeks, the broad goals set for the southern flank of the Eastern Front .. . have been essentially achieved. Only weak enemy forces... have on the production needs of the Luftwaffe and the navy.143 And the situation was made even worse at the end of August, when the Soviet Northern Front launched a massive attempt to break the encirclement of Leningrad.120 Army Group North did manage to defences in the city.121 At the end of September 1942 General Fromm, as chief of the army’s armaments supply, submitted a memorandum to Hitler demanding a negotiated end to the war as the only By the end of September he had replaced