raft and other businesses for needs of population Urban utilities 3.6 Local infrastructure plus gas, sewerage and local transport facilities Equipment for construction 0.5 I Total 45-7 100 ing weeks.42 II  The full extent of the SS’s genocidal ambition is staggering and for obvious reasons it has held the historical centre stage. However, what is less widely appreciated is that the Wehrmacht entered the Soviet Union intent upon not one, but two programmes of mass murder.42 Whereas the Final Solution and the Generalplan Ost were secrets closely guarded by the SS, for fear, amongst other things, of antagonizing the local population, the second programme, which openly envisioned the killing of tens of millions of people within the first twelve months of the German occupation, was agreed between the Wehrmacht, all the key civilian Ministries and the Nazi political leadership as early as the spring of 1941. Nor can the so-called ‘Hunger Plan’ be described as secret. It was referred to in official instructions issued to thousands of subordinates. And, perhaps most importantly, no effort was made to hide the wider rationale of the individual acts of brutality that the programme required. On the contrary, all German soldiers and occupation administrators in Soviet territory were enjoined to understand and to commit themselves to its strategic logic. This genocidal plan commanded  Waterwa : Flood regulation and navigation on Weichsel and Warthe Electricity sup . Electrification to be raised to level of East Prussia Industrial 5. 650,000 industrial jobs at c. 8,000 Reichsmarks investment per j t million large apartments for urban population of 4.3 million Minimum provision with educational facilities, cultural facilities and Urban crafts ; 45,000 craft and other businesses for needs of population Source: C. Madajezyk (ed.), Vom Generalsiedlungsplan (Munich, 1994), 91-123, doc. 23 such wide-ranging support because it concerned a practical issue, the importance of which, follow