ded. It was only the decisive action of the Speer Ministry that forced the industry to focus all its attention on maximizing output. In making these claims, however, Saur was doing little more than reciting the standard propaganda line. The suggestion that Luftwaffe producers, who since 1941 had been under the thumb of men like Karl Frydag (airframes) and William Werner (power plants), had much to learn about rationalization from Karl Otto Saur is implausible, to say the least. And not surprisingly, perhaps, the officials of the Reich Air  run away. They do not keep to any contract. There are difficulties with Frenchmen, Italians, Dutch. The prisoners of war are .. . unruly and fresh. These people are also supposed to be carrying on Hungary, more than 120,000 survived the war as forced labourers.2§ In the Jaegerstab, the employment of Hungarian Jews was discussed first on 26 May 1944, the first meeting attended by the reju- men of an age fit for work, the whole action will not have much success.’22 At this stage in the war nobody can really have been in any doubt about the fate of those Jews who were not considered fit for Ministry took a rather more jaundiced view of the hype surrounding the Jaegerstab’s achievements. Perplexed by the production records being claimed by Saur, the Air Ministry in the summer of 1944 undertook a close analysis of the sudden miraculous increase in production that had taken place since Speer’s men had taken over. As their report makes clear, it is not only the criminal immorality of the Jaegerstab that deserves critical scrutiny.22  For one thing, Saur’s story took no account of the inevitable time lags in aircraft production. Even the simplest fighter took six months to produce, from raw material to finished machine. Since the Jaegerstab itself came into existence in February of 1944, the measures it had taken and the resources it had mobilized could not show their full effects before August 1944. A large part of the increase in produc