the food, raw materials and oil needed to continue the war against Britain and the United States. Combined with a successful offensive by the Afrika Korps it would pose a mortal threat to Britain’s position in the Middle East. The overriding priority therefore was to rebuild the offensive capacity of the Ostheer for this second great offensive with all available resources concentrated on Army Group South.22  The time-factor in this strategic calculation was all-important. America’s entry into the war might not be fatal, provided Germany could finish the war in the East in the next year. As Speer himself explained to his closest colleagues, it was of vital importance that the Wehrmacht should be given the extra margin of offensive strength it needed to decide the war in the East over the winter of 1942-  Page 554 of 800 68% in artillery production since 1941. 1he production of anti-tank guns had quadrupled and the delivery of tanks in May 19435 was according to speer 12.5 times greater than on average in 1941. But insiders noted that Speer gave no absolute figures.16 He made no mention of the fact that his indices were calculated with reference to well-chosen periods in 1941 when production had been particu- 3. Otherwise the war would degenerate into a ‘war of duration’, allowing the full weight of the Anglo-American coalition to make itself felt. If not in 1943 then certainly by 1944 Germany would find itself facing what Speer would only describe as ‘a different situation’.21 Even amongst those who kept the faith, it was clear that Germany could only retain the initiative if the Wehrmacht struck a truly shattering blow against the Soviet Union in the next twelve months. The campaigning season of 1942 was therefore the last period in the history of the Third Reich in which the armaments effort was impelled by a strategic rationale with some degree of plausibility. And despite the crisis of confidence following the defeat at Moscow in December 1941, it was this elemen