f oil seeds, oil cake and only then the removal of grain.32 The minute did not specify the number of millions that the Germans intended to starve. However, Backe’s imprint on the discussion is unmistakable. 21 Backe himself put the figure for the ‘surplus military actions and the food problems 20 to 30 million Slavs and Jews will die’52 In November, Goering boasted to Count Ciano, the Italian Foreign Minister, that the starvation of 20-30 million Soviet war effort: Efforts to save the population from death by starvation by drawing on the surplus of the black earth regions can only be at the expense of the food supply to Europe. They diminish the staying power of Germany in the war and the resistance of Germany and Europe to the blockade. There must be absolute clarity about this  ... A claim by the [local] population on the German administration . .. is rejected right from the start.  Ill  After months of talk, on 22 June 1941 the invasion of the Soviet Union began. Never, before or since, has battle been joined with such ferocity by so many men, on such an extended battlefront. As the  Rarman cnaarhaade nhinaad daen inta tha wactarn Saviat Tnian immoadiatalw hohind tha lina af the Wahrmacht’e adwanra tha Fineatzorimnan of tha CS hasan thair worl af miurdar In tatal the four  Page 477 of 800 58% orities—fuel and ammunition. military actions and the food problems 20 to 30 million Slavs and Jews will die’52 In November, Goering boasted to Count Ciano, the Italian Foreign Minister, that the starvation of 20-30 million Soviet territoriesthe so-called ‘Green Book’-called for all of the industrial and urban centres of western Russia, including the wooded region between Moscow and Leningrad, to be cut off from their food Siberia.’>4 In case the occupying authorities should be moved to alleviate the situation, the guidelines reaffirmed the essential connection between mass starvation and the continuation of the German ...A claim by the [local] population on the German admin