roducing for the army directed their efforts towards providing the equipment for a swift, motorized programme was to dictate the output of the German armaments economy for the next eight months.1! So eager have historians been to demonstrate the incompetence and lassitude of the Nazi regime What Ruestungsprogramm B aimed to provide was a significant increase in Germany’s offensive firepower. And, in contrast to the preparations for the attack on France, the German army’s produc- tion priorities were now squarely focused on the requirements of armoured warfare. After their astonishing success in France, tanks were never far from Hitler’s mind. Even during the first weeks of July 1940, when he was seriously contemplating a large-scale reduction in army strength, Hitler excluded the ‘schnellen Truppen’ (Blitz troops) from these cuts.14 Instead, between the summer of 1940 and the summer of 1941 the number of Panzer divisions was doubled, from 10 to 20. It is possible to downplay this expansion by pointing to the fact that the number of tanks did not increase in proportion to the number of divisions. But, as we have already established, the total number of vehicles is meaningless as a guide to the effective fighting strength of the Panzer divisions. What mattered was not the total number of tanks, but the number of combat-worthy medium tanks—Mark IIIs, IVs and Czech-made Mark 36- and 38 tanks. If we focus on this group, German tank strength  AA LIA Lateran Mare TOAD nnd enn TOA aera antler tn nen necting $4 thn ner bane Af baele Aeininns 15 Db nen cen alan 4 nen netinncl in nennnn in Lall tenalen echinh nent dnd thn abil fae tn Anata.  Page 430 of 800 53% kinds—Nad already Deen severely curtalled and, despite the euphoria of the summer of 1740, this decision was never reversed. Not that the German leadersnip were uninterested 1n the state of Civilian mattered was not the total number of tanks, but the number of combat-worthy medium tanks-Mark IIIs, IVs and Czech-made Mar