g a wave of optimism, which Goebbels and Goering did their best to fan into a fever of excitement. The focus was now squarely on the plunder to be had in the Ukraine. And as we have seen, a renewed and ruthless effort was being made to ensure that Germany did actually receive increased food 72% Number produced: 100 7,000 een nen... ass..." against the United States, might actually pay off. In early 1942 the Japanese swept unchecked into Burma, Malaya, Indonesia and the Philippines dealing a death blow, if not to America, then at least to taking Tobruk on 21 June 1942 and advancing rapidly towards Egypt. With Britain stumbling from one disaster to the next, it seemed that Hitler might still realize his fondest dream. Churchill faced 150,000 prisoners in the Crimea. The German army that began the great southern offensive on 28 June was weaker in every respect than that which had invaded the Soviet Union a year earlier. But, at first, Army Group South made astonishing progress. Stalin had deployed his remaining reserves, not in the South but in defence of Moscow. For the Russian units facing the main thrust of the German south-east towards the oil of the Caucasus. On 9 August an advance guard of mountain troops reaching Maikop, the closest of the Caucasian oilfields. The oil installations were so thoroughly sabotaged that the Germans decided that they would have to drill new wells. For this purpose, huge consignments of heavy drilling gear were laboriously hauled over the mountain passes. The German foothold was tenuous, and it remained unclear how the Germans would ship large quantities of oil out of the Caucasus even if they were able to hold their position. But the psychological boost of actually having reached the fabled oilfields was enormous. Even Baku now seemed within reach. On 30 August 1942, 3rd Panzer division seized a bridgehead over the Terek river, the last major natural obstacle en In public, at least, the Third Reich returned to its familiar tone of bra