ave been in any doubt about the fate of those Jews who were not considered fit for employment. But that did not concern Speer or the Jaegerstab. A month later the flow of human material was improving and the Jaegerstab was pleased to learn that Auschwitz was now ready to make good on its promises. In particular, the SS were hoping to deliver ‘13,000 Hungarian Jewesses in batches of 500. Thus the smaller firms, too, will be in a position to employ these concentration camp Jewesses better.’28 Page 628 of 800 77% e Es = ee wl UT a hie a ae there is nothing but this one task. We are fanatics in this sphere. .. No order exists which could prevent me from fulfilling this task. Nor shall I ever be given such an order .. . do not let anything deter Hungary, more than 120,000 survived the war as forced labourers.2& In the Jaegerstab, the employment of Hungarian Jews was discussed first on 26 May 1944, the first meeting attended by the reju- men of an age fit for work, the whole action will not have much success.’27 At this stage in the war nobody can really have been in any doubt about the fate of those Jews who were not considered fit for But coercive labour discipline and the mobilization of tens of thousands of concentration camp inmates can only go so far in explaining the remarkable increase in aircraft production in the first half of 1944. And Karl Otto Saur, when he was explaining the triumphs of the Jaegerstab to his credulous interrogators from the Bombing Survey, not surprisingly focused on other issues. According to his version of events, the key to the Jaegerstab’s success was the ‘total revolution’ which it brought about in aircraft production, a ‘singular’ intervention, with ‘decisive effects’.22 Prior to 1944, Saur claimed, aircraft production had been feather-bedded. It was only the decisive action of the Speer Ministry that forced the industry to focus all its attention on maximizing output. In making these claims, however, Saur was doing little more than re