of the Ruhr was bleak. There can be no doubt that the crisis shook the confidence of even the most loyal business leaders in Nazi Germany. For some, such as Walter Borbet of the Bochumer Verein, the shock of Germany’s first defeat was too much. Borbet, once one of the most  enthusiastic advocates of rearmament, was found dead in his office on 4 January 1942. The majority of German industrial leaders, however, rallied around the regime as never before. In 1939 the German elite had been divided, but the Wehrmacht'’s spectacular early successes had gone a long way towards healing these rifts. The mood of euphoria and limitless possibility following the defeat of France created an identification with Hitler and his regime that was more complete than at any point before or afterwards.22 Unlike the attack on France in May 1940, which was expected with fearful trepidation, the invasion of the Soviet Union was eagerly anticipated. From the autumn of 1940 onwards the impending assault was an open secret in Berlin. General Thomas’s Wehrmacht office was in regular meetings with leading German corporations with experience in the Soviet Union. IG Farben, Siemens and AEG all contributed their expertise. Discussions even went as far as the allocation Page 557 of 800 68% responsibility, the German war effort after February 1942 can only be properly understood as a partnership between Milch and Speer.23 Of the increase in armaments output that was attained between German elite had been divided, but the Wehrmacht’s spectacular early successes had gone a long way towards healing these rifts. The mood of euphoria and limitless possibility following the defeat of of Soviet plants to particular German firms.3! And once the invasion began, the involvement of German business with the occupation authorities only intensified. Added to this imperialist euphoria was the financial bonanza of the first years of the war. The industrial boom over which the Nazi regime had presided since 1933 conti