alization agenda was that it did not set a single, standard price for all producers to aim towards. This, too, was not mere incompetence on the part of the authorities. The system was designed to ensure that the  Page 561 of 800 69% Gau economic adviser In 1 nhuringla and the folowing year he moved to berlin to serve Fritz lodt as Nis chief adviser for chemical 1ssues. ocnhieber also cultivated close links with the oo, nolding the to asa ‘fixed price system’. All producers were asked to match a single standard price. Any profits they made by reducing costs below this standard price were theirs to keep. At a stroke of a pen, a gross state could issue contracts to the widest possible range of new armaments producers, even if they could not meet the performance standards of the established and experienced suppliers. In this sense, it was a system well suited to the early phases of wartime mobilization, when new producers needed to be enrolled en masse in unfamiliar lines of production, whilst at the same time controlling the profits earned by the more experienced incumbent firms. Where the system clearly did sacrifice efficiency was in failing to require the less efficient producers to meet the prevailing ‘best practice price’. Furthermore, the tailor-made contracts required repeated and intrusive investigations by military auditors, who not surprisingly chose to concentrate their attention on the larger firms, making the system unpopular with the more influential members of the Reich Group for industry. In November 1941, as part of the discussion of fiscal consolidation, the decision was taken to adopt a new system of standard prices. These were to be based on the costs of a ‘good-to-average’ producer, calculated according to the existing rules. Initially, this measure was proposed as part of a fiscal consolidation package designed to curb corporate profits and reduce state expenditure, thus helping to prick the inflationary bubble. In the name of rationalization, the