fficial photograph on Torgau’s broken-backed bridge was staged the following day. Contrived though it may have been, the handshake was highly significant. Along the course of the Elbe, Torgau lay midway between the burned-out baroque splendour of Dresden and the cradle of Lutheran Europe at Wittenberg. A few miles further to the north was Dessau, home not only to the Junkers bomber factories but also to the seminal early twentieth-century modernism of the Bauhaus. In Germany there was no more symbolic terrain on which to enact the epochal shift in the global balance of power from old Europe to the new powers of the United States and the Soviet Union. From an economic point of view, Torgau was the logical outcome of two truly dramatic developments that defined the early twentieth century. The first and most obvious was the emergence of the United States as the dominant force in the world economy. The second, which did not become apparent until the 1930s, was the astonishing transformation of the Russian Empire wrought by the Bolshevik dictatorship. As the linking up of American and Soviet infantrymen deep in the heart of Central Europe confirmed, the history of the Continent in the first half of the twentieth century, the history of Germany and the history of Hitler’s regime cannot be understood but in relation to these twin developments in the United States and the Soviet Union. Certainly, this is the backdrop against  Page 653 of 800 80% PALALYOS® SLIT LUMO LL idl LACLIILIES AI LOLI! UIIMBES ULUSAULIE WILLUUL DIU Wills, C1011) Up. 1b Wald ACLIU1 AL LILe LU IE VE) LIAL LIU WW SIALLOLOU,. £5 ELLE ICL Ial) OLALE UL LILE SALOU, OU Ut Lie tle Livileal which this particular account of the rise and fall of the Nazi economy has been set.  Hitler never ceased to hark back to the revolutions that swept Europe in 1917-18. Anti-Communism was an unwavering element in his politics, tightly interwoven with a particularly toxic form of conspiratorial anti-Semitism. But anti-Commun