s of this system’, ‘in both cases’, were ‘the same: Jews and only Jews! The assault on Moscow was to deliver a ‘deadly thrust’ against this arch-enemy of the German people.25  Whether or not it was in October 1941 that Hitler took the definitive decision for the immediate murder of the entire Jewish population of Europe, remains unclear.2& What is beyond doubt is that the euphoria surrounding the German victory in the Ukraine and the success of the first weeks of Taifun coincided with a sharp escalation in anti-Semitic policy and rhetoric. On 15 October the long- awaited evacuation of the German and Austrian Jewish populations finally began. In the woods outside Lddz, Eichmann inspected what was soon to become an experimental gassing facility. On 17 October, in front of Armaments Minister Fritz Todt and Gauleiter Fritz Sauckel, Hitler presented a veritable panorama of the future of the conquered East. The Slav inhabitants were to be treated like ‘Red Indians’ (Indianer). Those that were useful would be retained. The population of the cities was to be starved to death. All destructive Jewish elements were to be exterminated immediately. Hitler on this occasion did not speak of gassing and he restricted his immediate threats to ‘destructive Jews’. But, in the light of the killing already done by the Einsatzgruppen, in light of the millionfold starvation of Soviet prisoners of war and the projected death toll of the Hunger Plan, it is not easy to see what significance should be attached to such distinctions. Whether or not Heydrich had already devised a concrete and specific plan for the destruction of the comparatively small Jewish populations of Western Europe, the Third Reich was already committed to a programme of millionfold mur- der that aimed at nothing less than the demographic reconstruction of Eastern Europe.  At first Taifun satisfied every expectation. The Wehrmacht inflicted terrible wounds. Six Soviet armies were engulfed in the double encirclement at Vya