assessment of 14 December 1941, the Wehrmacht credited the dramatic Japanese offensive with robbing the seriously considered stripping all of the home army training units of their expert instructors so as to be able to provide a final draft of fifteen first-class infantry divisions.102 This would have helped about the ‘misfortune that had broken over the nation’193 For Borbet of the Bochumer Verein, one of the first men in whom Rohland had confided, the calamity was too much. In January 1942, he fol- Clearly, neither Todt nor Fromm was under any illusion about Germany’s situation. But whether Germany was to fight on or to negotiate, it needed to do so from a position of strength. And this depended on rebuilding the fighting power of the Wehrmacht for a second great effort in the East in 1942. At the height of the Third Reich’s first military crisis Todt did his best to rally Germany’s lead- ing industrialists around the war effort. The existing system of regional and national armaments committees was reorganized into a structure of five Main Committees: the three existing committees for ammunition, weapons and tanks and two new committees, one for engineering, the other for general Wehrmacht equipment. Todt also formed a new Ministerial advisory Committee to include  eet ee obvious conclusion: ‘It can only be ended politically.” As we have seen, Hitler had already discussed this possibility with Goebbels in August 1941. But now, with negotiations already under way with lowed Udet’s example and shot himself.194 To cover up the embarrassment, a state funeral was hastily arranged, attended by all the dignitaries of German industry. representatives both from ‘his’ industries and the Luftwaffe.195 On 7 February 1942, after the first plenary session of the new Committees, Todt left Berlin for a further round of meetings with Hitler in Rastenburg.106 There is no surviving record of the final conversation between Todt and his Fuehrer. Testimony from those who were present i