e demographic reconstruction of Eastern Europe.  At first Taifun satisfied every expectation. The Wehrmacht inflicted terrible wounds. Six Soviet armies were engulfed in the double encirclement at Vyazma and Bryansk. Six hundred thousand —— ee Se eee —ee———e——————_ eee eo ee ee eee eee eee eee eo ee eee Eee Eee eee ee ea eee ae In July the United States occupied Iceland to further extend its coverage of the Atlantic shipping lanes.12 Shooting encounters between the German and American navy were occurring on a monthly forces in the central sector for the earliest possible assault towards the Soviet capital.2! During the crucial weeks in August 1941, however, he was unable to mobilize full support either from Army creator of poverty and destitution and ‘the bearers of this system’, ‘in both cases’, were ‘the same: Jews and only Jews!’ The assault on Moscow was to deliver a ‘deadly thrust’ against this arch-enemy of prisoners of war trudged westwards to die behind German lines.22 In the second week of October 1941, Stalin’s regime came close to breaking point.28 Following rumours that the Communist leadership was fleeing the city, the population of Moscow briefly panicked. Order, however, was soon restored. Stalin stayed in the capital and General Georgi Zhukov managed to reconstruct one more defensive line. On 7 November the Red Army celebrated the anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution with a defiant Red Square parade. Meanwhile, the logistical constraints that hobbled the Wehrmacht reimposed themselves. Even during the build-up to Taifun, the concentration of all Germany’s offensive strength on one army group had created huge transport bottlenecks. In September Page 489 of 800 60% forces in the central sector for the earliest possible assault towards the Soviet capital.2 During the crucial weeks in August 1941, however, he was unable to mobilize full support either from Army prisoners of war trudged westwards to die behind German lines.2Z In the second week of Octo