e outgrowth of a European tradition of colonial conquest and settlement, a tradition that was not yet fully aware of its own obsolescence. The ignorant condescension shown by all sides, not just by the Germans, but by the British and Americans as well, towards the fighting power of the Red Army is indicative of this. But, as the Wehrmacht found to its cost, the Soviet Union was not an object that could be operated on in the manner of Edwardian imperialism. What Germany encountered in Soviet Russia in 1941 was not ‘Slavic primitivism’, but the firct and mast dramatic evamnle of a suiccassfill develanmental dictatarshin and what was revealed in the Wehrmacht’s flaiindering advance tawards Mascaw was nat the hackwardnass af Russia for ammunition, weapons ‘w committees, one for engineering, the other for general Wehrmacht equipment. Todt also formed a new Ministerial advisory Committee to include Rastenburg.196 There is no surviving record of the final conversation between Todt and his Fuehrer. Testimony from those who were present in Rastenburg suggests that it did not go well. It is possible Army Group South, preparing it for the push towards the oil of the Caucasus.128 There was now no argument that economics had to take priority. Oil was all-important. Nor did Hitler need convincing. programme hada chance of success somewhere between one in ten and one in two, Churchill did not hesitate to instruct the British scientists to accelerate the programme to top speed. Wreaking havoc ran, = pee EEE — the first and most dramatic example of a successful developmental dictatorship, and what was revealed in the Wehrmacht’s floundering advance towards Moscow was not the backwardness of Russia, but Germany’s own partial modernization. By the 1940s, the nineteenth-century map of economic and military power, centred on the established states of Western Europe, no longer existed. This was the most basic fallacy underpinning the effort by the Third Reich to create an empire in the E