order, effectively countermanding Hitler’s intention. Local authorities were permitted to paralyse German industrial facilities and render bridges unusable without blowing them up. It was action at the local level that now mattered. As the German state disintegrated, so did the national economy. Regions, firms and individuals were reduced to desperate strategies of survival. In the Ruhr, Albert Voegler and Walter Rohland argued inconclusively with the local military commanders about the demolition of one of the most important bridges across the Ruhr. They agreed that though the bridge should be made impassable, power, water and gas lines would be left intact. In the end, what had survived the bombing was saved by the arrival of the American forces. Back at headquarters in the capital, Herbert Backe, who had once planned the food supply for all of Europe, was now principally concerned with filling the granaries of Berlin, in the hope that urban life could be sustained at least until the next harvest was brought in. Hans Kehrl continued to work feverishly at plans.106 He collaborated with Backe on an emergency production programme for agricultural equipment, on the assumption that farming and food would be Germany’s chief preoccupations in the vears to come. He also prepared a programme to ensure a minimal suvplv of clothing to the German population after the collapse. Bv this point, however, the personal safety of his familv was an un- sku orthe Wernrmacht showed itseir to remarkable efrect. in the bast, the Ked Army Naited outside Warsaw. ror the fouowlng months, tenting on the oastern rront was largely conrined to the flanks. headquarters, spirits were still not broken.121 Speer reassured Goebbels that, despite the loss of all the occupied territories, armaments production could continue for at least another year. The loss of years to come. He also prepared a programme to ensure a minimal supply of clothing to the German population after the collapse. By this point