t on the Soviets. On Christmas Eve 1943 they set about breaking the bloody stalemate in the South. Pounding attacks on the Zhitomir-Kiev axis threatened to turn the northern wing of German Army Group South. But still the Germans clung to the ore mines in Nikopol and Krivoi Rog. Only in February was their grip finally broken and the Wehrmacht driven back once and for all from the Dnieper bend.8 Army Group South’s front line, though intact, was now suspended dangerously between Ternopol and the Black Sea, with no natural defensive position of any kind. Again, the Red Army took full advantage. On 4 March 3rd Guards Tank Army sliced due south from Ternopol unhinging the entire German position in the Ukraine. Pressured all along the front line, struggling to Page 622 of 800 76% keep a grip on their Romanian allies, the Germans reeled backwards first across the Bug and then the Dniester. And even on that last, vital river line they were unable to prevent the Red Army from seizing bridgeheads, the launching pads for the next thrust into Romania.2 When that came, as Jodl had acknowledged, it would strike a fatal blow to the German war effort. The more immediate threat, however, in the first months of 1944, was the imminent defeat of the Luftwaffe. In early 1944, the US Army Air Force dramatically turned the tables in the daytime battle by introducing a new generation of long-range escort fighters with performance substantially greater than Milch’s outdated Messerschmitts. Literally thousands of Mustang P51s equipped with disposable fuel tanks now accompanied the bombers deep into Germany and picked off the Luftwaffe’s interceptors before they even got close to the bomber streams. ‘Big Week’-20-25 February 1944-is commonly regarded as the critical turning point in the air war.12 On six consecutive days, thousands of American bombers were hurled against all the major aircraft factories in Germany. The Luftwaffe was not destroyed in a single week. However, the US Army Air Forc