ed in a conscious act of deception. For the coming months, Speer promised the Gauleiter further huge increases in the production of all key weapons and calibres of ammunition. The next day, Hitler affirmed Speer’s central position in his post-conference address to the Gauleiter at the Fuehrer headquarters, making a special point of emphasizing the achievements of Speer’s Ministry over the last year. Despite Speer’s unreal optimism, however, the German war effort was past its peak. From July onwards armaments production fell. From early 1945 it plunged. Production did not decline at the same speed for all types of armaments. Weapons and tanks reached their highest level only in the last months of 1944. Ammunition peaked in September. But aircraft production, the most com- plex component of the military industrial system and the industry that had been targeted most heavily by Allied bombing, collapsed precipitously from the summer of 1944 onwards. Since this effectively marked the end of the arms race that has been one of the driving forces in our narrative since at least the late 1930s, it is worth pausing to take stock.§3 Predictably, in the light  of urhat hac already heen said the disnarity in tatal autnut heturean Garmanyw and ite anemies wrac stark On the hack af the triumnhe of the Taegerctah Germany in 1944 managed tn nradirce a total a eee oes eee See with the increase in production of tanks and assault guns we will in the next three to four months overcome the apex of the crisis, which, as yet, still lies ahead . . ’.22 Goebbels’s appointment as Reich output for the first week of August to the July totals.£2 Speer had succumbed to the final temptation of the ‘big lie’. He was no longer simply dramatizing, heightening and manipulating reality. He was of what has already been said, the disparity in total output between Germany and its enemies was stark. On the back of the triumphs of the Jaegerstab, Germany in 1944 managed to produce a total of 34,100 combat a