n to the Allied war effort. Roosevelt’s announcement in May 1940 that he wanted to see American industry turning out at least 3,000 aircraft per month and reaching a final production level of 50,000 sent shock waves through the Reich Air Ministry. The mythology surrounding American mass-production, and particularly its phenomenal success in mass-producing internal combustion engines, was daunting to say the least. Though it was William S. Knudsen of General Motors who was leading the discussions with the British, the question in Berlin was: ‘What will Ford do?’ (‘Was macht Food?’). Given Henry Ford’s isolationist proclivities, the company in fact hesitated. But by September 1940 ground had been broken on a state-of-the-art aero-engine plant at River Rouge, and by the spring of 1941 construction was under way at Willow Run, where Ford was to construct its famous factory for the mass-production of B24 heavy bombers.22 Willow Run did not enter production until much later in the war. But the noises from America were worrying enough for the industrialist Fritz Siebel, an acquaintance of Hermann Goering’s, to appeal for an urgent increase in German aircraft production.28  In 1940 and 1941, however, the fundamental problem was less one of quantity than of quality. If there was one thing that the Battle of Britain had made clear, it was the shortcomings of the  Page 444 of 800 54% claimed the lives of at least 30,000 inmates.+! In light of such horror, it is easier to think of Auschwitz as a place of pure negativity, of destruction pure and simple.22 Unfortunately, however, the reality his largest-ever allocation of steel. According to the records of the Four Year Plan, no less than 2.5 billion Reichsmarks were channelled into Krauch’s chemicals projects in 1940 and 1941.3 that would be the first to face the terrifying industrial might of the United States. It was in the air war that the Germans really feared the American contribution to the Allied war effort. Roosevelt's L