, heavy labour and extra heavy labour have to be regarded in objective terms, independent of racial consideration, as a through-put of calories and muscular effort. It is illusory to believe that one can achieve the same performance from 200 inadequately fed people as with 100 properly fed workers. On the contrary: the 100 well-fed workers produce far more and their employment is far more rational. By contrast, the minimum rations distributed simply to keep people alive, since they are not matched by any equivalent performance, must be regarded from the point of view of the national war economy as a pure loss, which is further increased by the transport costs and administration [involved in recruiting them].84  Here it was not the ‘anti-economic’ logic of anti-Semitism but the ruthlessly materialistic logic of the Hunger Plan that was counterposed to Sauckel’s programme of forced recruitment. The Hunger Plan had arrived at the conclusion that millions of people needed to be killed, starting not from the principles of the racial struggle, but from the food balance. The Wehrmacht now spelled out the same logic in relation to the workforce. The problem was that of achieving the most efficient balance between calories and muscular effort. If they could not be properly fed, the millions of foreign workers who were being imported would add little to Germany’s effective labour power. Indeed, in maintaining large numbers of foreign workers in a vegetative state, Germany was burdening itself with a whole new population of ‘useless eaters’ (‘unnuetze Esser’). It would be far better to return to the radical logic of the Hunger Plan. If there was not enough food to maintain everyone at an optimal level of efficiency, it would be far better to concentrate those rations that were available on a smaller group of productive workers. What the ‘national war economy’ certainly could not afford was to allocate food to foreign workers simply to keep them alive.  Backe, for his part, was