rbed wire of the concentration camp.£? They did not question the Ss’s right to treat developed since 1933, was to mete out a regime of punitive treatment and malnutrition calculated to break the will of the inmates and, in the majority of cases, to result in a slow and agonizing death. By 1942, mortality in the camps was so staggeringly high that the SS economic administration found itself unable to meet the targets for the slave population set by Himmler. If the concentration camps really were to serve as an important reservoir of labour the rate of attrition would clearly have to be lowered. To do so the economic administration of the SS took practical steps.68 The medical establishment of the camps was instructed to take seriously its responsibility for maintaining inmate productivity. Most importantly, from the winter of 1942—3 onwards the economic administration of the SS ordered that food rations for the inmates should be increased. Following the IG example, brutal punish- ment was increasingly combined with bonuses of food or cigarettes calculated to stimulate productivity. As a result, in 1943 mortality declined significantly throughout the system.  Who exactly benefited most from the employment of concentration camp labour, the most barbarous aspect of Germany’s foreign labour programme, is a matter of some contention.®? It is clear that  fee fee Foe nat ee et ae Ld tk ee 2 a tn 2 a 2 ne 4 tte 2 nn 8 ne a dn 2 8 enn one Le ee nn nee  Page 530 of 800 65% the Organisation Todt, which was responsible for construction in the occupied territories, and 230,000 were hired out to private industry.64 was precisely that they were able to offer their industrial clients an apparently limitless flow of new inmates. Here too, Selektion was the crucial term.§2 So long as the SS supervisors carried out regular for employers to make at least some effort to stabilize their inmate labour force. At Auschwitz, IG Farben negotiated with the SS to provide food supplements as prem