cessary coal was ‘squeezed out’ by imposing a 10 per cent cut on domestic consumers, which meant that the German per capita allocation was now 15 per cent lower than that in Britain.82 In addition, Pleiger introduced tough new regulations under which the coal mines belonging to the largest steel firms were re- quired to pool their output with the supply available for general distribution. Those steel producers who economized on coal use were rewarded by being allowed to retain a greater share of their ‘own’ coal. Rather than collapsing, as the RVE had feared, steel output rose in the first quarter of 1943 to a wartime record of 2.1 million tons per month in the pre-war territory of Germany. For the German Grossraum as a whole, the monthly average in early 1943 was 2.7 million tons. On the crest of this heavy industrial boom, Speer delivered the ‘armaments miracle’. By February 1943 the combined armaments index exceeded twice the level it had reached when Speer took over. The driving force of this spectacular increase, however, was anything but miraculous. To reiterate, in so far as Speer was responsible, the most important factor was ammunition. And the increased production of ammunition was not primarily an effect of rationalization or reorganization. It was a direct result of a hugely increased allocation of steel.83 From September 1939 to the end of 1943, there is a near-perfect correlation between the allocation of steel to ammunition production and the quantity of ammunition nroduced 84 When nlentv of steel was allacated. ammunition nraduction was huovant. When the steel sunnlv was restricted. so was the nraduction of ammunition. and this relationshin holds hath  Page 572 of 800 70% and a large quantity of scrap metal for smelting. On this point, however, there seemed no possibility of reconciling the demands of Roechling and Nis colleagues with the production forecasts provided voluntary basis, he would agree to any coercive measure, and this applied to the We