zechoslovakia. However, after the occupation of Prague in the spring of 1939 the diplomatic fronts were hardened by the British and French guarantees to Poland and Romania. Everything now depended on the behaviour of the two flanking powers, the United States and the Soviet Union. In the summer of 1939 Stalin’s decision to opt for a strategy based on fomenting inter-capitalist war tilted the balance in favour of Germany. The Nazi-Soviet pact guaranteed Germany against a second front in the East, and protected it  Page 659 of 800 81% of additional workers. but given wnat we now know about the Generaipian Ost and the comprenensive agrarian restructuring that it was supposed to Initiate, 1t seems that this was a matter of timing. against the worst effects of the much feared Anglo-French blockade. One can therefore construct a compelling economic-strategic rationale for Hitler’s decision to go to war in September 1939. Given Germany’s deteriorating economic position and the unexpectedly favourable shift in the diplomatic balance, Hitler had nothing further to gain by waiting. And as we have seen, Hitler spelled out this logic in virtually these words to anyone who would listen after September 1939. But to confine ourselves to these rational elements of strategy would be to miss the crucial third ingredient in Hitler’s decision-making process. To argue in terms of a strategic window of opportunity begs the question of why Hitler believed that war with the Western powers was inevitable. Why did he feel compelled to seize the opportunity, to gamble the future of his entire regime on a war with Britain and France, at amoment when Germany enjoyed, at most, only a slender military advantage? To explain this decision we must invoke ideology. This might seem paradoxical in light of the fact that Hitler was departing so flagrantly from the programme outlined in Mein Kampf. In that book, dictated in a prison cell in Landsberg fifteen years earlier, Hitler had called for an Anglo-