n. Unlike in 1941, however, the Hunger Plan was now to be directly coupled to the programme of racial genocide and above all to its centrepiece, the murder of the Jews of Poland. By the end of May 1942 Backe had met both with Hitler and General Governor Frank and had agreed that food was to be redistributed on a massive scale. As of 1942, all food deliveries from the Reich to the Wehrmacht in the field were to cease. Germany’s armies were to feed themselves from the territories they occupied, without regard to the consequences for the local population.23 Entire groups were to be excluded from the food supply, most notably the Jews. As Goebbels noted in his diary, the new regime would be based on the principle that before Germany starved ‘it would be the turn of a number of other peoples’. This slogan, which was commonly attributed to Hitler, was to be repeated almost verbatim throughout 1942. Page 540 of 800 66% or aes first order, which Backe would never +r have suggested if the situation had not absolutely required it.85 The Wehrmacht had prepared the way in 1942, by decreeing aration cut for the fighting troops. strength of the workforce. The management asked specifically for larger quantities of carbohydrates, even if this came at the expense of a further reduction in quality.2° By the end of the summer which is crucial to understanding the history of the Nazi war economy. As we have already noted, it is a commonplace to contrast the appointment of the ‘technocratic’ Albert Speer with the choice of above all to its centrepiece, the murder of the Jews of Poland. By the end of May 1942 Backe had met both with Hitler and General Governor Frank and had agreed that food was to be redistributed ona The main sources of additional food deliveries following the harvest of 1942 were to be the Ukraine and France. However, it was in the General Government that the interlinking of food policy and genocide was most clear-cut.  As we have seen, after the occupation of autumn 1