hich the chosen one of world Jewry, Roosevelt, should have taken the helm in the White House . . . Everything is ruined by the Jew, who has settled upon the United States as his most powerful bastion.”1 What weighed on Hitler’s mind, in the last months of the war, was the pivotal role played by Roosevelt in frustrating his project of Continental conquest. In 1933, however, the role of Jewry, cloaked in the garb of liberalism, capitalism and democracy. The only adequate response to the American challenge was to create a Lebensraum for the German people sufficient to match that provided by the continent of the United States. Space on this scale was only available in the East and it could be attained only through conquest. There seems no reason to doubt that this mission of conquest was the sustaining ambition of Hitler’s regime. For Hitler, a war of conquest was not one policy option amongst others. Either the German race struggled for Lebensraum or its racial enemies would condemn it to extinction. Mounting such a challenge required a diplomatic strategy and a major military effort, both of which were ultimately founded on economics. The enormous effort of national mobilization must be the central facus of anv account of the eeanamic histarv of Hitler’s resime Ry camnarison with the militarw-industrial camnley the various civilian work creatinn measures set in matian hetween  Page 656 of 800 80% conspiratorial anti-Semitism. But anti-communism was generic on the German right, as were projects of Eastern expansionism. Furthermore, though the Soviet Union remained a looming presence bastion. What weighed on Hitler’s mind, in the last months of the war, was the pivotal role played by Roosevelt in frustrating his project of Continental conquest. In 1933, however, the role of the central focus of any account of the economic history of Hitler’s regime. By comparison with the military-industrial complex, the various civilian work creation measures set in motion between June