ere are currently still 3.5 million Jews. Poland is to be sanitized within the coming year.’24 Eliminating the Jews would not only reduce the number of people that needed feeding; it would also remove a large element of the black market, which was crucial to the survival of the ghettos. Only if they controlled every step in the marketing of grain would the Germans be able to secure the vastly increased share of the grain supply that Backe demanded. After his initial round of meetings in Poland, Backe confirmed the new plans with Hitler and Goering on 4 and 5 July 1942. A few days later Hitler and Himmler conferred—the meeting that left Himmler in a state of euphoria and precipitated his fateful summer tour of Silesia and the General Government. After visiting Auschwitz and designating it as the killing centre for the Jews of Western Europe, Himmler on 18—19 July issued not one, but three orders to Globocnik and Krueger in Lublin. All Jews in Poland not needed for work were to be killed by the end of the year. The settlement programme in the General Government was to begin with the clearance of the Lublin-Zamoé¢ region. Finally, Himm- ler conveyed a draconian set of instructions concerning the harvest, which was now only weeks away. In the General Government, the hunt for grain was to be pursued with complete ruthlessness. For the entire month of August, the city of Warsaw was to be sealed off from its agricultural hinterland. Peasants who failed to meet their delivery quotas were to be summarily shot.22 Copies of this latter order, which was treated as highly sensitive by the General Government administration, went to Backe, Goering and Gauleiter Sauckel. Himmler and Backe were sending a signal to their colleagues in Berlin that there was now to be a serious effort to resolve the conjoined problems of food and labour.  This was confirmed explicitly in late July 1942, first at the eleventh session of the Zentrale Planung on 22 July, at which Backe and Sauckel’s probl