ifference to me in this connection if you say that your people will starve. Let them do so, as long as no German collapses the early 1990s. One may infer that it was excised even before it fell into Soviet hands. All that remains is the following tell-tale line delivered by the Reichskommissar for the Ostland, Hinrich Lohse, apparently in response to a question by Goering: ‘I can respond to that as well. Only a small fraction of the Jews are still alive; many thousands are gone.’  The demands formulated by Backe and Goering to resolve the food crisis of 1942 were completely unprecedented and at first caused heated debate amongst the administrators in the occupied territories. According to Goering’s secretary Paul Koerner, the German military commander in France thought Goering’s quotas so outrageous that he refused to pass them on to the authorities in Paris.22 However, certainly in relation to the General Government, Backe refused to back down. For occupied Poland, the implications were drastic. Given the expected harvest and the new level of German demands, Frank expected that at least 3 million Poles who lived in the cities but did not work directly for the Germans would have to be cut off from the bread ration as of 1 March 1943. The resulting mass starvation would obviously have serious implications for public order, but Frank responded by reiterating Hitler’s slogan: ‘These consequences must be accepted, because before the German population starves in any way, others must .. . pay’12° The first group to do so would be the Jews. Whereas the Polish ration was to be cut off in March 1943, the feeding of 1.2 million Jews was to cease immediately. As of the autumn of 1942, only 300,000 Jews classified as workers would receive any official food allocation. If some of the 1.2 million ‘condemned to starve’ did manage to obtain food through the black market, then the General Government administration ‘hoped’ that this would lead to an ‘acceleration of anti-Jewish measu