on. They must receive just enough to enable them to continue working.28  Feeding them any more would simply encourage resistance. In the manuscript minutes of Goering’s meeting of 6 August there is one crucial page missing, a page on which Goering clearly referred to the fate of the Jews, connecting it directly to the food supply issue. This page has disappeared. It is not preserved even in the original copy of the document unearthed in the Moscow Special Archive in the early 1990s. One mav infer that it was excised even hefore it fell into Saviet hands. All that remains is the followings tell-tale line delivered hv the Reichskammissar for the Ostland. Hinrich Lohse  Page 543 of 800 66% ATE Tlldlll SOULCES OL ACCILLIOL al LOOU CEMVELIES LOMOWILIIE UIE tlarVEst OL L7%S WELE LO VE LIE URI ALTE All FLAallCe, TLOWEVEL, 1 Was Ill CHE GEHEL Al GOVELTIUTICIIL Ullal ULE IIILELIITINITIE OL LO0U PuLicy alla ‘In the General Government there are currently still 3.5 million Jews. Poland is to be sanitized within the coming year.’ 24 Eliminating the Jews would not only reduce the number of people that needed the entire month of August, the city of Warsaw was to be sealed off from its agricultural hinterland. Peasants who failed to meet their delivery quotas were to be summarily shot.2> Copies of this latter the Gauleiter at which they gave vent to the festering resentment in the German population.27 The next day, Goering announced the full scope of Backe’s new food programme to representatives from him: if any one has to go hungry, it shall not be the Germans, but other peoples . . . In every one of the occupied territories, I see the people fed to bursting and among our own people there is starvation. Ihave here before me reports on what you are expected to deliver ... it makes no difference to me in this connection if you say that your people will starve. Let them do so, as long as no German collapses the early 1990s. One may infer that it was excised even before it fell into S