he Dvina and Dnieper’. Finishing off the campaign in the East would demand the Wehrmacht’s attention as a mopping-up operation, but it was time for the German leadership to turn its mind towards future operations against the umbilicus of the British Empire, the land route between the Nile and the Euphrates.  Only a few weeks later, this bubble had burst. By the end of July 1941, all three German army groups had reached the feasible limit of their supply system and had halted their advance. The Red Army, though it had suffered devastating casualties, had not been destroyed.2 It was still fighting and inflicting serious losses. The situation was at its most critical in the central segment of the front line  was never even considered was ‘the possibility of feeding the Soviet population from German stores. By December 1941 Leningrad was in the grip of a severe famine. Over the Christmas period and cannot become worse as a result of this step; it can only improve.’1 As was to become apparent by November 1941, this was to hope in vain. The German programme of depopulation and colonization though it had suffered devastating casualties, had not been destroyed. It was still fighting and inflicting serious losses. The situation was at its most critical in the central segment of the front line around Smolensk. In the last days of July, by driving his tanks to the very limit of their endurance Heinz Guderian completed yet another gigantic encirclement and seized control of the ‘land bridge’ between the upper reaches of the rivers Dvina and Dnieper. Moscow was now less than 400 kilometres away. But, in pulling off this spectacular coup, Guderian outran his supply lines and left the main bulk of Army Group Centre trailing hundreds of kilometres to the west. Faced with savage Soviet counterattacks, Guderian’s overstretched units were forced to dig in and to defend the outer perimeter of their encirclement.2 Sensing that a critical moment had arrived, the Red Army hurled no less t