old demand for clothing. He had also been instrumental, in cooperation with his friend Paul Pleiger, in the reorganization of the coal industry. Kehrl now applied the same principles to the management of the steel economy, with a system that was presented to the Zentrale Planung on 15 May 1942.62 The enormous backlog of steel orders was to be cancelled. To ensure that there was no further inflation, rations would in the future be issued only up to 90 per cent of total steel production, leaving a reserve of 10 per cent for top priority contracts. Rolling mills, for their part, would be required to take on no more orders than they were able to supply within a reasonable time period.22 Then in the third quarter of 1942 the overall quantity of steel rations was slashed to bring it into line with actual production. The total military allocation was cut by 7 per cent, with the navy being the main casualty. The army’s allocation continued to increase. By contrast, the total allocation for non-armaments purposes was cut by almost a quarter, the brunt being borne by the export sector. This provoked protests, not only from the civilian economic administration but also from Wehrmacht high command, which was seriously concerned about the impact on Germany’s allies, most notably Italy. However, as the battle for Stalingrad reached its dreadful climax, Speer had little difficulty in insisting on the absolute priority of the army. This took care of steel allocation. But the more fundamental problem, clearly, was the inadequate production of steel. As we have seen, in the late summer and autumn of 1941 the German war effort was haunted by the fear of a severe setback to steel output as a result of the difficulties in coal supply. By juggling steel types and supplementing with high- quality foreign it iron ore and scrap, the steel  Ot a tt et i et i tn TA et ree te ee a ree . ee ee  Page 567 of 800 70% The first task of Speer’s new administration was to get to grips with this ‘ratio