serving the overall economic balance until the summer of 1943, the triumphs of the Armaments Ministry would have been harder if not impossible to achieve. As Kehrl’s planning office belatedly acknowledged, if inflation had been allowed to run riot, a far greater degree of coercion would have been required to mobilize resources for military production. The functioning monetary system was a crucial lubri- cant for the armaments miracle.  From the early summer of 1943 onwards, however, the fragile equilibrium of Germany’s war finances progressively collapsed. Speer’s last round of armaments mobilization made demands on the German economy that were increasingly unsustainable. In 1943, according to the best available estimates, domestically financed war expenditure accounted for 60 per cent of German net national product, a higher proportion than in any of the other combatants.28 In 1944 mobilization further intensified. Civilian consumption and investment were compressed yet again, as Wehrmacht expend- iture continued to increase. In the fifth year of the war, between September 1943 and the end of August 1944 the Wehrmacht consumed the staggering sum of 99.4 billion Reichsmarks, more than  tatal natinnal ineama in tha lata 102Ne Ru eantract tay ravaniac hath fram Carman and tha areuniad tarritariac otadnatoad at tha hich naint raachod in 1049 and avon mara urmrrtrinegl: Carmanu'c as 50 per cent of national income, a burden impossible to finance either through taxation or sound long-term borrowing.2 product, a higher proportion than in any of the other combatants.Z8 In 1944 mobilization further intensified. Civilian consumption and investment were compressed yet again, as Wehrmacht expend- total national income in the late 1930s. By contrast, tax revenues both from Germany and the occupied territories stagnated at the high point reached in 1942 and, even more worryingly, Germany’s financial institutions were reaching the limit of their ability to absorb state debt. The G