lew all the major combat aircraft of World War II, the poor handling of the Me 109 G made it ‘unaccept- able as a fighter’, ‘obsolete’ from the start, ‘a hopeless collection of lumps’ and ‘bumps’.14 At combat speed, it required four seconds to turn into a 45-degree roll. For an aircraft flying at 500 kilometres per hour, this was absurdly sluggish. In low-altitude dogfights, Spitfire and Mustang pilots found that they could often provoke their hapless German counterparts into crashing into the ground, so slow was the Me 109 G to recover from any violent manoeuvre. Between 1942 and the end of 1944 Milch oversaw the production of almost 24,000 of these inferior aircraft. For thousands of Luftwaffe Page 579 of 800 71% =. ee re ee * Heinkel 111s.193 The Luftwaffe had first tested this medium bomber in February 1934, when Goering’s air force was still in its clandestine phase. At the time the He 111 had been an advanced aircraft argest share. When it was first combat-tested in the Spanish Civil War in 1937, Messerschmitt’s 109 had been state of the art. Five years later, due to deficiencies in its aerodynamic design, it was able as a fighter’, ‘obsolete’ from the start, ‘a hopeless collection of lumps’ and ‘bumps’.194 At combat speed, it required four seconds to turn into a 45-degree roll. For an aircraft flying at 500 kilometres fliers who squeezed themselves into their cramped cockpits Milch’s mass-produced Messerschmitts became little more than death traps.105  —@— Actual costs  Production of : , Model E begins O— Costs predicted by  Air Ministry formula —®— Costs predicted by Anglo-American formula — See Eee eee eeeeeeeeeeEEeeeeeeeEE——eE—E—_E—EEEEE eee ee eee ee eeeeeeeeee——eee—eeeEeEeEeE————EEEE=E—EeEEEETEEeE——EEE—_—E—EeEIEE—E—Ee—e—e—E—EE——eEeee ee eee LE Eee eee eeeeeeeeEeE—e—_————————EEEEeEEE———ee_ee along with the Luftwaffe’s other twin-engined RAF Bomber Command flew its missions without fighter escorts, t! bomber streams, what the German crews need  Army Air Fo