or no assistance in this effort from Saur and Speer. Only when Milch surrendered and agreed to share control of the Luftwaffe sector was Speer willing to allow aircraft production to benefit from the full authority of the Reich’s Armaments Ministry and the practical benefits that conferred. Even in 1944 there were no miracles of rationalization. Contrary to Saur’s assertions, aircraft production clearly did not levitate. Though the confusion of 1944 makes a precise accounting impossible, it is clear that the unlimited powers of the Jaegerstab Page 630 of 800 77% tO be allocated directly to oauckel, the 1oat construction organization, or other high-priority employers, such as the jaegerstabd.= it 1s estimated that of the 5U7,UUU jews eventually aeported from Hungary, more than 120,000 survived the war as forced labourers.2 In the Jaegerstab, the employment of Hungarian Jews was discussed first on 26 May 1944, the first meeting attended by the reju- the Jaegerstab that deserves critical scrutiny.32 unseat the priority of the Me 262. Meanwhile, Saur and his ‘rationalization experts’ declared the production targets to be unachievable. 23 The autumn was filled with acrimonious meetings, in which enabled it to back up the increased production of Me 109s and FW 190 fighters with an unprecedented quantity of raw materials, labour, food and transport capacity. In fact, Speer himself confirmed this interpretation in an unguarded comment to journalists in June 1944. To explain the extraordinarily robust rebound in aircraft production, he commented: ‘I have to add... that here an alteration in the system has taken place on the quiet, in that from February we have, as we have done in the other industries, brought in capacities from the armour and Panzer industries into the aircraft industry. This is the reason, in my opinion, for the speedy recovery.’35 As the confidential diary of the Speer Ministry frankly admitted, the uncanny robustness in tank production in 1943, in the fac