ed. Not that the German leadersnip were uninterested 1n the state of Civilian mattered was not the total number of tanks, but the number of combat-worthy medium tanks-Mark IIIs, IVs and Czech-made Mark 36- and 38 tanks. If we focus on this group, German tank strength doubled between May 1940 and June 1941, exactly in proportion to the number of tank divisions.12 There was also a proportional increase in half-tracks, which provided the mobility for 10 divisions of motorized infantry, whose performance was key to the success of the Blitzkrieg. Tanks could fire and move, but they could not hold ground unless they were backed up by fast-moving infantry. The tank production drive of 1940-41 is also significant because it created one of the most durable organizational structures of the German war economy. With a clear eye for the main chance, Fritz Todt seized the initiative in the bureaucratic battle in the summer of 1940, by attaching a new Main Committee for Tanks to his Ministry for Ammunition and Weapons.1£ The basic ingredients for this Committee’s success were clear enough. The tank programme was adequately provided with raw materials, labour and manufacturing capacity. Todt’s system of enrolling the manufacturers in the allocation of production contracts had already proved its effectiveness as a mobilizing device. The Main Committee was chaired between 1940 and 1943 by Dr Walter Rohland, the energetic chief of the Deutsche Edelstahlwerke Krefeld, one of the leading suppliers of armoured plate. Rohland’s authority rested in turn on his status as a board member of the giant Vereinigte Stahlwerke and as the favourite of Albert Voegler, unarguably the most powerful individual in German heavy industry. It was with Voegler’s blessing that Rohland succeeded Ernst Poensgen in 1943 as chief of the entire Vereinigte Stahlwerke complex. Rohland had been a party member since 1933, but the real political muscle on the Main Committee was provided by Karl Otto Saur, Fritz Todt’s