of a productive collaboration, Himmler cited the case of Messerschmitt’s fighter plant at Regensburg, which had entered into a sub-contracting deal with the Flossenbuerg concentration camp. Instead of working in the notorious quarry, the inmates at Flossenbuerg were now producing aerodynamic engine cowlings and radiator covers for Me 109s. In February Regensburg also started drawing parts of the fuselage from the Mauthausen camp. By the summer of 1944, it is estimated, 35 per cent of the output credited to Messerschmitt’s Regensburg factory was, in fact, due to its SS sub-contractors.22 Whilst they were contributing in this fashion to the production records of the Speer Ministry, Flossenbuerg and its Aussenlager consumed the lives of at least 20,000 people, in add- ition to the many thousands more who died at Mauthausen.23  Though concentration camp inmates had become increasingly ubiquitous in armaments production, up to the spring of 1944 Jewish inmates, the lowest category in the Nazi racial hierarchy, had been debarred from such employment. The Jaegerstab broke even this ideological taboo. To ensure that it played its part in the defence against the Red Army, Hungary was militarily occupied by the  Page 626 of 800 77% ———————————— se eee ee eee EE eeEeEeEeEEEeE~E—Ee——E—EEEEe—eEeeEe eee ae OE eee eee eeeeeeeeeeeEOeeeeeeeeEeEe——eEeEee—_EeEeEEEeEeEeE—E———_——EE—_TE—EE—_e————e_e_e_eee eee OEE TO there is nothing but this one task. We are fanatics in this sphere... No order exists which could prevent me from fulfilling this task. Nor shall I ever be given such an order ... do not let anything deter The methods of Kammler’s Mittelbau were thus extended to the entire Luftwaffe sector.2 Wehrmacht on 19 March 1944. Within weeks, the possibility of employing hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews for war work was being excitedly discussed in the Fuehrer headquarters.24 The first priority for the allocation of Jewish labour were Kammler’s gigantic underground building site