e population at large, any such redistribution was out of the question. The public demanded that if the German ration was to be reduced, the foreign workers should fare even worse. Backe resvonded to these conflicting demands as best he could. On the one hand he introduced a new higher ration cat-  Page 538 of 800 66% a se -_ eee oo it confirmed his deepest anxiety. Backe had not been bluffing in 1941. In light of the extension of the war into the indefinite future, Germany was facing a severe food problem.Z8 The German grain first order, which Backe would never have suggested if the situation had not absolutely required it.85 The Wehrmacht had prepared the way in 1942, by decreeing a ration cut for the fighting troops. first years of the war. It was now to be expected that any further reduction in the ration would result in a precipitate decline in performance, particularly in industries such as mining.8? German ration was to be reduced, the foreign workers should fare even worse. Backe responded to these conflicting demands as best he could. On the one hand he introduced a new higher ration cat- egory for Ostarbeiter doing heavy work.88 At the same time he cut the ration for the lowest category of ‘normal’ Ostarbeiter to well below the standard German level. In addition, Ostarbeiter were excluded altogether from access to the most sought after items such as eggs. In any case, none of the rations set in April 1942 were sufficient to secure the labour power of the Eastern workers. Whilst Sauckel’s office vainly issued memorandums calling for adequate treatment of the Ostarbeiter, hundreds of thousands of underfed and underclothed workers arrived from the Eastern territories, to find themselves penned in barbed wire encampments and facing a diet of slow starvation. One armaments firm reported in the spring of 1942 that it had almost daily cases of ‘Ukrainians who are willing to work, collapsing unconscious at their machines’.82 It is characteristic of the state of mi