ed Army had now per- fected the principle of concentration that the Germans had put to such good use early in the war. On the crucial South-western Front, from which the Red Army was to launch the first arm of the Stalingrad encirclement, 12 full-strength assault divisions with hundreds of tanks and more than 170,000 troops were massed along a sector of only 22 kilometres.2 When the storm broke on 19 November the Romanian 3rd Army and an understrength German Panzer corps were simply torn apart. It was, a German officer later wrote, ‘a picture of horror. Whipped by the fear of the Soviet tanks, [German] trucks, command vehicles, motorbikes, horsemen and horse-carts raced westwards, crashed, got stuck, turned over, blocked the road. In the midst of all this, pedestrians thrust, pushed, pressed and rolled their way through. Whoever tripped and fell to the ground did not get back on their feet. They were trampled, run over and flattened.’ On 20 November the full intent of the Soviet offensive became clear when to the south of Stalingrad the Soviet 51st Army blasted its way through the weak Romanian screening forces and raced north-west towards the Don. By 23 November the Soviet pincers had linked up, encircling the German 6th Army, as well as the remnants of the 4th Panzer Army and Romanian 3rd and 4th armies. The last survivors surrendered on 2 February 1943, after a ten-week siege, for the loss of 250,000 Wehrmacht soldiers as well as uncounted numbers of Italians, Romanians and Soviet auxiliaries. Two weeks earlier, the Soviet counterattack had forced the abandonment of the German foothold in the Caucasus. By the middle of February 1943, the ragged Ostheer had been forced back to the positions from which it had started its offensive the previous June. At this point, the battlefield superiority of the German army was still sufficient to halt the slide. Rommel in North Africa and Manstein in the Ukraine were able for a time at least to stabilize the situation and to ha