e the ordinary German worker who would have to do it. ‘You won’t be doing it and I won't.’ To make sure the mine managers got the message, Pleiger added with characteristic cynicism: Reichswerke Hermann Goering, the VW plant in Fallersleben, the Akkumulatorenfabrik AG in Hanover and Henschel’s Rax subsidiary in Vienna.£! Up to the end of 1943, the aircraft industry was the Organisation Todt, which was responsible for construction in the occupied territories, and 230,000 were hired out to private industry.S4 only marginally less irrational than murdering them outright. Here, however, it is crucial to distinguish between logics operating at the macro and the micro level and to consider the time-factor. Whereas the incarceration of more and more potential workers in murderous concentration camps was clearly irrational from the point of view of the overall war effort, from the point of view of the individual employer the concentration camps were often a godsend. Even in 1944, Himmler was still able to provide new workers. Though these people were quickly worn out, the advantage of the SS was precisely that they were able to offer their industrial clients an apparently limitless flow of new inmates. Here too, Selektion was the crucial term.S2 So long as the SS supervisors carried out regular inspections, weeded out those workers whose productivity had fallen below acceptable levels and replaced them with fresh inmates, the employer had little to complain about. This process of continu- ous selection and replacement was the essence of the concentration camp labour system. A concentration camp labour force was not a stock but a flow. The SS did not undertake to supply firms with particular individuals, but with a particular unit of labour power. It was the SS, not the employer, who were responsible for maintaining the flow. In some cases, however, it clearly did seem rational for employers to make at least some effort to stabilize their inmate labour force. At Auschwitz, I