rce census of May 1941 counted an add- itional 1.4 million workers as having been called up for military service. By the summer of 1941, the population of German men between the ages of 16 and 56 had been divided into three unequal groups: 7.388 million were under arms and another 2.12 million teenagers between the ages of 16 and 19 were undergoing military training; 3.6 million men of all ages had been disqualified as unfit for military service, largely on medical grounds; the rest, totalling 5.516 million, were those exempted as indispensable to the war economy (Unab-koemmiich ).24 By the summer of 1941, the Wehr- macht was already scraping the manpower barrel. Due to the small number of children born during World War I, Germany had no option but to send virtually all its young men into battle.22 Of those aged between 20 and 30, who were physically fit for military service, 85 per cent were already in the Wehrmacht in the summer of 1941. Only 640,000 men in this prime age group were granted exemptions on grounds of their importance to the war economy. Those who had been exempted on economic grounds were overwhelmingly over the age of 30. But it was on this population of middle- aged family men, the backbone of the armaments industries, that any future recruitment would have to draw.2§ Barbarossa was a Blitzkrieg campaign also in this sense. The best available manpower was fully committed to the initial assault. There was little or nothing in reserve.  To square the circle over the winter of 1940-41, an elaborate system was devised for releasing experienced soldiers back to German industry, whilst the Wehrmacht trained the maximum number of new recruits. Under the so-called ‘armaments holiday scheme’ the battle-tested veterans were to manufacture the weapons that they and their comrades would use in the Soviet Union the following macht was already scraping the manpower barrel. Due to the small number of children born during World War I, Germany had no option but to