e Commander Brauchitsch. Rohland recounted his experiences in Russia and seriously considered stripping all of the home army training units of their expert instructors so as to be able to provide a final draft of fifteen first-class infantry divisions.122 This would have helped about the ‘misfortune that had broken over the nation’103 For Borbet of the Bochumer Verein, one of the first men in whom Rohland had confided, the calamity was too much. In January 1942, he fol- representatives both from ‘his’ industries and the Luftwaffe.105 On 7 February 1942, after the first plenary session of the new Committees, Todt left Berlin for a further round of meetings with Hitler in the raw-material base necessary for a long war against Britain and the United States. According to Albert Speer, Fromm in fact was already convinced that only a miracle weapon could save Germany from defeat.102 What Fromm had in mind was the extraordinary work of a group of physicists who theorized that the energy contained in the elementary particles of matter might provide both a boundless source of power and a potentially war-winning explosive device. Fromm, as the head of the German army weapons office, was fully apprised of the project’s potential, but considered it long- term.110 The armv’s time-horizons were now shorter and Fromm thus looked to transfer the proiect to the civilian sector. After months of organizational areument. in the summer of 1942 the vhvsi- ioat dispatched KoMland and a team Of armaments industrialists to the very front of the Gerinan advarnice, to visit General Guderian at fis headquarters in Urel. i hey returned deeply aepressed. by motors and gearboxes still worked, the weapons failed due to freezing up.’22 On his return, Rohland immediately scheduled a meeting in the Ruhr with Albert Voegler, chairman of the supervisory cannot be wom!’ The next day, Todt and Rohland met with Hitler at Fuehrer headquarters in the presence of Army Supreme Commander Brauchitsch. Rohland r