oduce the necessary results ... or whether other forms of  arganization are needed’ This surely ic the hact characterizatinn af the Sneer evstem certainly in its first aishteen manthe What emerced in the aftermath of the winter crisis of 1941 wracan alliance of a similar organization for the steel industry. This finally came to fruition on 1 June 1942, in the form of the Reichsvereinigung Eisen (RVE).61 What the Reich Ministry seems initially to have had bartered between Speer and Albert Voegler, who as chairman of the Vestag supervisory board was still the dominant figure in the German steel industry.£2 Instead of the unworkable idea of a steel Roechling was so antipathetic to the Reichswerke that he willingly cooperated with Ruhr interests to hold at bay any further extension of Pleiger’s interests.£5 Pleiger for his part, was so suspicious of organization are needed.’ This, surely, is the best characterization of the Speer system, certainly in its first eighteen months. What emerged in the aftermath of the winter crisis of 1941 was an alliance between Hitler’s regime and the leading elements of German industrial capitalism, to secure their common survival in the life and death struggle with Stalinism. Two basic challenges faced the steel industry: to increase production and to reorganize the rationing system. The job of reorganization was given to a committee of steel industrialists, headed by the ubiquitous Voegler.68 Voegler, in turn, entrusted the technical details to Hans Kehr] of the RWM. Kehrl was no steel expert. But he had consolidated his reputation as one of the toughest practitioners of Nazi economic policy by imposing a tightly disciplined rationing system on the textiles sector. Replacing regular currency with coupons, he had drastically curtailed household demand for clothing. He had also been instrumental, in cooperation with his friend Paul Pleiger, in the reorganization of the coal industry. Kehrl now applied the same principles to the management