y’s position as early as the summer of 1941.25 In late December he hosted a meeting of supply officers who provided a depressing tour d’horizon of the Ostheer’s situation. Thomas’s summary was characteristically  oT  = Oe  a ee futier nad offered to declare war on the United otates 1n conjunction with japan already in the spring of 12741.°= but at the time the japanese had refused to commit themselves and instead entered early as the summer of 1941.22 In late December he hosted a meeting of supply officers who provided a depressing tour d’horizon of the Ostheer’s situation. Thomas’s summary was characteristically self-justifying: ‘The setback was predetermined by supply problems. General staff has foreseen these and repeatedly pointed them out. Its warnings, however, have not been taken seriously by the leadership.’26 By the New Year, Thomas’s mood had darkened further. On 2 January 1942 he had a discussion with Field Marshal Keitel concerning the situation of Germany’s fuel supplies and their implications for operations in the coming year. Even Keitel was worried ‘that the Ostheer will not get back up by the summer and then that there will be no petrol’.22 Thomas was more preoccupied with his place in history: ‘We must now present a completely clear picture since some day somebody will be held responsible.’28 Even an ardent Nazi such as Fritz Todt, Reich Minister for Armaments, was under no illusions about Germany’s situation. According to both Walter Rohland, head of the Main Committee for tank production. and Hans Kehrl. Todt had harhoured serious reservations ahout the Russian camnaien from an earlv date.22 In Novemher 1941. as Armv Groun Centre fought its wav towards Moscow. Page 503 of 800 62% Tor since 19506. And they did not hesitate. Without prior knowledge of the Japanese timetable for a surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, Hitler pledged himself to following Japan 1n a declaration of war on implications for operations in the coming year. Even Keitel was worri