n agricultural share in the workforce of no more than one-third, with a similar share employed in industry, crafts, commerce and public services. Placed in relation to the long-run development of the German occupational structure, the SS vision involved turning the clock back not to the Middle Ages, but to 1900.  In light of the problems in the Reich, achieving the correct distribution of land was clearly a key question in Germany’s colonization in the East. The majority of German settlers would be provided on acommercial basis, were... anything but Romantics. They were cool calculators and stemmed in considerable numbers from the commercial classes.’22 Nor was the project impractical or ‘merely that the ‘old peasantry’ is gone and to affirm the new peasantry of the Third Reich and to fight for it.26 housing programme announced in the autumn of 1940 and the pre-war Volkswagen scheme. In the East, anew abundance of natural resources would be combined with German know-how and capital with self-sufficient homesteads (known as Hufen), of at least 20 hectares. As we have seen, farms of 20-30 hectares were the mainstay of the Erbhoefe in the Reich. In those areas where the quality of land required farms of more than 30 hectares, the family farm was not a viable unit. These territories would be given over to larger estates run by veterans of the SS, employing gangs of Slavs as farmhands. The initial planning for Poland provided that two-thirds of the land was to be divided between 150,000 Hufen, each supporting a German peasant family. One-third of the land was to be given over to 12,000 large Wehrbauernhoefe, to be reserved for SS officers. The goal of complete Germanization, however, would never be achieved if German farmers were forced to rely on native Slavs to do the bulk of the fieldwork. So land was also allocated to provide allotments for a substantial population of German farm labourers. Table 14. Proposed population distribution Generalplan Ost  ne a  Page 467 of