ion at least until the summer.12 Now, however, he was able to call on the brutal energies of Karl Otto Saur, a squad of senior officials from Speer’s Ministry, and the particular expertise of SS General Kammler. Equipped with undisputed priority in the entire armaments effort, empowered to take any measures necessary to raise production, the Jaegerstab successfully revived the ‘armaments miracle’. Meas- ured in terms of airframe weight, aircraft output doubled between February and July 1944. The increase in the number of aircraft produced was even more spectacular-from 1,323 in February 1944 to 3,538 aircraft by September, of which almost 2,900 were fighters.  It was this sudden and late burst in aircraft production to which the Speer Ministry owes its legendary reputation. As things stood in January 1944, German armaments output after two years of Speer’s leadership was ‘only’ 130 per cent higher than it had been when he took office.13 Since the traumatic events of July 1943, there had been no sustained progress whatsoever. Suddenly in February 1944 the armaments output index, which was now being calculated on a regular basis by Hans Kehrl’s planning office, shot upwards, by almost 50 per cent in only five months. Relative to an index of 100 when Speer took office, the armaments index which stood at 230 in February 1944 rose to a record level of 330 in July 1944. Two-thirds of this increase was attributable to the last-minute triumphs of the Jaegerstab. And Speer and Saur were clearly well aware of the importance of this remarkable late surge to the reputation of their Ministry. It formed the ideal concluding chapter in the propaganda narrative of the armaments miracle. One by one the Armaments Ministry had taken in hand the key elements of the German war effort: first the army and the Reichsbahn, then the Panzer ore deposits of the Ukraine. This kept alive the hopes of the German war economy, at least for a few more months. Even in Italy, Mussolini’s demise did no