nitz gave the order on 24 May 1943 for the wolf-packs to withdraw. Unable to sustain a battle of attrition against the overwhelming industrial and technological superiority of its enemies, the weakest branch of the German armed forces had been knocked out of the war. The response by Hitler and Speer to the disasters of early 1943 was predictable: a heightened mobilization drive and a crescendo of ‘armaments propaganda’.2 The soldiers of the 6th Army would not die in vain.1° The slow-motion destruction of the last hopeless pockets of resistance in Stalingrad had given the rest of the German Southern Front the chance to withdraw in reasonably good order to a position not much different from that which they had occupied in June 1942. Germany still controlled most of the Ukraine and the coal and iron ore of the Donetz. For three months, Hitler ordered all the output of Speer’s Ministry to be directed exclusively to the Eastern Front.14 On 13 January 1943, Keitel, Hans Lammers and Martin Bormann installed themselves as a triumvirate with the mission to oversee the total mobilization of the German population for war work. Every last man and woman in the country was to be registered by the labour exchanges and assessed for the contribution they might make to the war effort. All businesses in the civilian sector were to be subject to ruthless investigation. Those that were not strictly essential to the war effort were to be closed down. Armaments output in the first months of 1943 was expanding rapidly on a broad front. By the end of May 1943 it was almost 120 per cent higher than when Speer took over. Half of this increase was accounted for by the Luftwaffe, the rest by Speer’s sector, in which ammunition, artillery and infantry weapons continued to dominate. But ‘progress on a broad front’ was not the rallying cry that Speer and Hitler needed in the desperate winter of 1942-3. They needed a ‘big story’ with which to re-energize the home front. The answer was the Adolf Hit