erested conservatism and incompetence. A month later Merker made personal threats against Blohm, announcing that to rescue the programme he would act ‘without consideration of person or status... and if there [was] no alternative, also with the necessary hardness’.24 By August 1944, Rudolf’s brother Walther Blohm recorded in his diary that Merker had accused Blohm to his face of sabotage, an extraordinary allegation given Blohm’s track record. Walther Blohm in turn attributed Merker’s remarks to his desperate need to hide ‘the complete failure of his system and his own performance’. In the autumn of 1944, allegations of this kind could have serious conse- equipment and machinery. Finally, these prefabricated sections were transported, again by rail, to three dedicated assembly yards: blonm & Voss In Hamburg, Deschimag 1n bremen (purchased by threats against Blohm, announcing that to rescue the programme he would act ‘without consideration of person or status .. . and if there [was] no alternative, also with the necessary hardness’.24 By quences. In early October an allied bombing raid destroyed six aircraft on the runway at Blohm & Voss’s aircraft affiliate. In retribution, Walther Blohm was hauled in front of a court martial and was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment for failing to take adequate air raid precautions. The Blohm family was able to use its contacts in the Gauleitung and in Berlin to get the judgement revoked. However, the incident was indicative of the tension that pervaded every level of the German war effort by the end of 1944. More significantly from the point of view of the dockyard, Merker and Speer’s mistrust was such that they took the extraordinary step of removing Rudolf Blohm from control of his own yard, appointing a so-called Werksbeauf-tragten who was responsible directly to the Min- istry. In practice, Speer’s commissar was a trusted director of the firm, and Rudolf Blohm seems to have remained very much in charge. But the symbolic de