sed so much trouble to the German forces in Russia. Like that of the Luftwaffe, the future of the German tank force was decided, not in 1942 or 1943, but in the summer and autumn of 1941.  The tank programme was only one of a number of major investment programmes undertaken by the army. Funding for these came from the MONTAN GmbH, the army’s investment holding.44 The balance sheet of the MONTAN provides an extraordinary insight into the expansion of the German military-industrial complex in the first years of the war. It clearly highlights the immense capital uncertain margin, do show a 40 per cent increase in the Luftwaffe workforce between the spring of 1940 and the autumn of 1941.24 When compared to figures for aircraft output, this would imply with a major reorganization of the war effort in the spring of 1942. In fact, the evidence suggests that we should look to preparations begun at least a year earlier.35 towards maximizing immediate output.326 From the start of 1941, the Luftwaffe in particular was focusing its attention as much on the continuation of the war against Britain and the United States Hitler sketched a future of boundless possibilities, in which Germany would wage a ‘battle of the continents’, by which he clearly meant a war with the United States.32 To secure this future of global In fact, however, tank production by the end of the war comfortably exceeded the quantities specified in the army’s Mesopotamian fantasy.4! And this increase in production was only possible because requirements, particularly of the chemicals side of the armaments complex. Driven upwards by the Schnellplan of 1938 and Hitler’s demands of early 1940, explosives accounted for 70-80 per cent of the army’s investment in industrial capacity during the war.  Figure 18. The wartime investment boom: German industrial capital stock (billion Reichsmarks)  with a major reorganization of the war effort in the spring of 1942. In fact, the evidence suggests that we should look to pr