from the application of traditional metal-cutting techniques. As he put it ina much-quoted report, the German aero-engine industry was producing more waste chips, by weight, than engines.23 developmental role. All three major aircraft developers-Junkers, Messerschmitt and Heinkel-were thus brought under direct Ministerial control. the wastage of raw materials resulting from the application of traditional metal-cutting techniques. As he put it in a much-quoted report, the German aero-engine industry was producing more waste There can be little doubt, of course, that Werner was right. But his aggressive rhetoric of reform and improvement must be seen in context. What Werner was voicing was the critique developed since the early 1930s by advocates of new, state-of-the-art technologies, which replaced traditional metal-cutting tools, such as lathes, with grinding, casting, stamping and pressing, all of which were far more economical in their use of both materials and labour. Frydag at Henschel was a world leader in this field.24 But to take the rationalizing rhetoric of men like Werner and Frydag at face value and infer that the Luftwaffe industries suffered before November 1941 from a peculiar level of inefficiency would be naive. A high degree of wastage in metalworking was completely normal in the 1920s and 1930s, both in Germany and the United States.2= Furthermore, it would be misleading to counterpose the agenda of Werner, Frydag and Co. as ‘rational’ rationalization to the ‘fantastic’ schemes previously touted by the likes of Koppenberg and Ernst Heinkel. In the crisis-stricken politics of the Nazi regime in the autumn of 1941, one rhetoric of rationalization in fact substituted for the other. Werner’s critique of existing production practice could have been made with equal force of virtually any factory in Germany-or anywhere else in the world for that matter-at any time since the early 1930s. Indeed, Werner had been making his case to the Air Ministry for at le