ers and 146 Tigers had been especially assembled to lead the assault. In addition, the Panzer divisions were now increasingly equipped with new versions of the Mark IV, with a powerful 75 millimetre gun. The Soviets by contrast were still relying on the first generation of T-34s. The problem for the German Panzer divisions was no longer quality, but quantity. Having concentrated 70 per cent of its entire tank force on the Eastern Front at Kursk, the Wehrmacht could field 2,451 tanks and assault guns, as opposed to a Soviet strength of 5,128 vehicles. The Luftwaffe was at a similar disadvantage in the air. And in artillery the odds against the Germans stretched to more than 4 to 1. Most importantly, the Germans had forfeited any element of surprise, a key element in their success both in 1941 and ee “iis, eae ee OT SOF the Ruhr’ began on 5 March with an attack on the industrial city of Essen, the home of Krupp.2Z Between 8.58 p.m. and 9.36 p.m., following the invisible beam of the OBOE electronic guidance system, option but to implement an immediate cut to the ammunition programme.?4 After more than doubling in 1942, ammunition production in 1943 increased by only 20 per cent.22 And it was not just parts, castings and forgings were suddenly in short supply.2£ And this affected not only heavy industry directly, but the entire armaments complex. Most significantly, the shortage of key components 1942.40 Thanks to excellent intelligence, the Soviet defences were so well prepared that the German army was not even able to achieve a substantial initial penetration. For the first time since the beginning of the war, a German offensive failed at its earliest stage. After suffering 50,000 casualties in a fortnight of fighting and after a vast expenditure of material, the last German offensive on the Eastern Front was called off. The Wehrmacht was given no chance to recover. It was the Red Army alone that now dictated the pace of events. Even before the Germans had halted thei