Ruhr between August 1944 and January 1945 was a massive 36.5 million tons, at least six weeks of normal consumption. In December 1944 Germany faced the first of three consecutive winters without adequate supplies of coal. Not until 1948 were reliable connections restored between the Ruhr mines and the urban centres of Germany. For a mid-twentieth-century European society this spelled imminent paralysis. Already in January 1945 the impact of the coal famine was making itself severely felt. Upstream from the Ruhr in the southern industrial hub of 'Mannheim-Ludwigshafen, coal shortages accounted for an 80 per cent falli in production at Brown, Boveri and Cie, one e of the Reich’s principal producers of electrical Page 647 of 800 79% Tor the continuation of large-scale mobile warlare—was cut olf by April 1944. Lhese losses put a time limit on German survival. but they did not by themselves imply Immediate collapse. In a typically in the southern industrial hub of Mannheim-Ludwigshafen, coal shortages accounted for an 80 per cent fall in production at Brown, Boveri and Cie, one of the Reich’s principal producers of electrical transformers. Opel in Ruesselsheim and BMW in Munich were both closed in early 1945 for lack of coal. By the spring contemporaries were noting that the Rhine was running clean for the first time in generations. There were no factories left in operation to pollute it.22  At this point, the Armaments Ministry was defeated. The bombers were unstoppable. The collapse of industrial production in Germany was only a matter of time. But in the autumn of 1944 the war went through the last of the periods of stagnation, which were so essential to the ability of Hitler’s regime to rally itself and to convince itself time and time again that all was not lost. In September 1944 the Allied advance across France came to a halt on the borders of the Reich. There followed months of grinding defensive battles, in which progress was agonizingly slow and the superior fi