this false contrast obscures is the no less significant shift in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture.22 Following the disastrous ration cut of April 1942, Hitler took the  hich ly uninenal ctan af ratiring Walthar Narré ana af hic Innaact-carvina Minictare and nramnatinag Harhart Rarcla fram Ctata Carratary ta tha nacitian nf acting Minictar Ginra 1026 Rarla had carvad oe See ee eS ee a ee a? a ee ee a ee a a ea ee ee ee eee ee, ee ee eae first order, which Backe would never have suggested if the situation had not absolutely required it.82 The Wehrmacht had prepared the way in 1942, by decreeing a ration cut for the fighting troops. all the Jews of Europe as a human conveyor belt to move packing cases out of the Ukraine.’21 which is crucial to understanding the history of the Nazi war economy. As we have already noted, it is acommonplace to contrast the appointment of the ‘technocratic’ Albert Speer with the choice of highly unusual step of retiring Walther Darré, one of his longest-serving Ministers, and promoting Herbert Backe from State Secretary to the position of acting Minister. Since 1936, Backe had served as the representative of agriculture in the Four Year Plan. He was therefore well connected with Goering and his staff. As a senior member of the SS and a close friend of Reinhard Heydrich, he also had excellent connections to Himmler. The evidence suggests that from April 1942 onwards Backe spearheaded a coalition of some of the most radical elements in the Nazi regime, dedicated to securing the German food supply at any price. In this coalition, Herbert Backe and Heinrich Himmler provided the executive energy, but they enjoyed the full backing of both Goering and Hitler himself. The essence of Backe’s strategy was a return to the principles of the Hunger Plan. Unlike in 1941, however, the Hunger Plan was now to be directly coupled to the programme of racial genocide and above all to its centrepiece, the murder of the Jews of Poland. By the end of May 194