in Kassel worked around the clock in two twelve-hour shifts from the autumn of 1942. Some Stakhanovites, caught up in the enthusiasm of the Fuehrer’s programme, apparently volunteered to work back-to-back twenty-four-hour stints.12 By way of compensation, the heroes of National Socialist labour were provided with extra food, vitamin pills and  enanial eatianoe nf clathina Cnanar cinalad tham aut far danaratinne An antiva Trralaca haliday racnrt ure racaridad far tha s0a nf thair familiag 18 tn tha naureraale Cnaar urae chaum chalina hando urith err aaa aarti, — anita ara arial» aac taaaanarcaicaiaaaiaanamaiamaiaaaiaal, — Diacaienieimriaiaimmiammiaaaias, — a» aii ae the output of Speer’s Ministry to be directed exclusively to the Eastern Front.1! On 13 January 1943, Keitel, Hans Lammers and Martin Bormann installed themselves as a triumvirate with the mission special rations of clothing. Speer singled them out for decorations. An entire Tyrolese holiday resort was reserved for the use of their families.18 In the newsreels, Speer was shown shaking hands with tank workers and their children, alongside General Guderian, the new tank supremo. There can be no doubt that the Wehrmacht needed more tanks. By the last week of January 1943, the Ostheer had been battered to the point where it had only 495 Panzers on its books, not all of which were in working order.12 Nor can there be any argument with the effectiveness of the Adolf Hitler Panzer Programme. The number of tanks produced in May 1943 was more than twice the number produced in the autumn of 1942. Measured by weight, the introduction of the new heavier models meant that total production increased by as much as 160 per cent. However, the extraordin- ary propagandistic emphasis given to the Adolf Hitler Programme and the extraordinary powers granted to Speer to implement it, were out of all proportion to the significance of the tank in the overall war effort. Even at the height of the Adolf Hitler Programme, the share