enthusiastically to the results achieved by the ‘small but perfectly formed concentration camp’ that he used to discipline his workforce at the Reichswerke.2> At wvanionle: tha aaman ten ne tha Vaiaashaf mantina tha minina inductee in Tana Cilasian haan aunarimantina wrth a nar aretam wurhinh tenn. A FARA itealf inta tha main manne af Aianiniinn Page 526 of 800 64% WELT LVLULLU VV ELE, AS WELL AS LLLCAELY ULIIEE LISUUMOLL IGE LARUE MULLER GLUE SAS LES EE VLC OLA em SEALY VWVELE LLAUS LAY SLES LEAS LULLED 2UL A OLD OLGALE EIU LL AGE RUSE EU LEVEE LES INU, DUE Lhe sli jULity UL its high point in the summer of 1944, when the Jews of Hungary became the last great population to be sucked into the maelstrom of destruction.46 Whilst the gas chambers worked at full capacity to ‘lost’ the worker concerned.2! In many cases it clearly seemed more efficient to settle the matter there and then in the workplace. After all, casual physical violence was by no means unknown in Ger- the DAF, Ley was jointly responsible with Sauckel for overseeing the foreign workforce. The key item on the agenda of the Kaiserhof session was the question of ‘how to treat the Russians’ 54 A remark- At precisely the same time as the Kaiserhof meeting, the mining industry in Upper Silesia began experimenting with a new system, which turned food itself into the main means of discipline. Bonuses of various kinds were widely used by German employers. But Guenther Falkenhahn, the Generaldirektor of the Plessschen Werke, a mine that supplied IG Farben’s Silesian chemicals complex, took bonuses to a new, existential level. Under a system he dubbed Leistungsernaehrung, or ‘performance feeding’, he divided his Ostarbeiter into three classes. Only those achieving an adequate, average performance would receive the normal ration. Those underperforming would have deductions made from their rations. These deductions would then serve as bonuses for the above-average performers.26 The system was designed to manage scar