with Albert Voegler, chairman of the supervisory cannot be wom!’ The next day, Todt and Rohland met with Hitler at Fuehrer headquarters in the presence of Army Supreme Commander Brauchitsch. Rohland recounted his experiences in Russia and lowed Udet’s example and shot himself.104 To cover up the embarrassment, a state funeral was hastily arranged, attended by all the dignitaries of German industry. from defeat.122 What Fromm had in mind was the extraordinary work of a group of physicists who theorized that the energy contained in the elementary particles of matter might provide both a term.110 The army’s time-horizons were now shorter and Fromm thus looked to transfer the project to the civilian sector. After months of organizational argument, in the summer of 1942 the physi- cists made a major presentation to an audience including Albert Speer. All present were impressed with the extraordinary potential of the scheme, but, when pressed, Werner Heisenberg and his colleagues confirmed Fromm’s view that an atomic bomb was a long-term proposition. The project would come to fruition in two or three years’ time at the earliest and would require a huge invest- ment. Given Germany’s situation in 1941 that made it an irrelevance. What the leadership of the Third Reich was looking for was a decisive success on the Eastern Front in the coming summer. With hindsight it is clear that the decision made by Speer and his colleagues was essentially correct. Even working with virtually limitless resources, the Americans did not manage to complete a viable atomic weapon in time for it to be used against Germany. But the eagerness with which the Western Allies seized on the atomic bomb at precisely the same moment that it was deprioritized in Germany is yet more evidence of the gulf that separated the industrial and technical resources of the two sides.111 Informed by his chief scientific adviser in September 1941 that the atomic bomb programme had a chance of success somewhere betwee