re hreached The Armamants Minister returned to Rerlin for a lact hiicinase  Page 649 of 800 80% UralisfOrimers, UpeOl Il RUCSSeisNeily Ala DINVIVV Ih WiUTUCT WeTe DOL Close itl Cally L745 LOL laCK Of COdl. DY Lhe springs COMlEMPOLalles Were MOUs Uilat Lhe NIE Wads LUTTE Cleall fOr thie Lirst cine ith Christmas, lovely weather for killing Germans’.120 In practice, however, it took the Allies until the end of January 1945 to reverse the gains made by the Wehrmacht’s last futile offensive. At Fuehrer the Wehrmacht were horrendous enough. The defeats of 1944 had cost the Germans 1.8 million men killed.1@3 In the first five months of 1945, whilst Speer was encouraging his Fuehrer to one last destruction of Germany in 1945 in the language of the Holocaust is both obscene and inaccurate.1% This was a war, not a massacre of the innocents. It may have felt like slaughter to those on the Less than a week after Speer wrote his counsel of sacrificial destruction, the flimsy German defences on the Rhine were breached. The Armaments Minister returned to Berlin for a last business meeting with Hitler on 29/30 March.105 There is no authentic record of this encounter, only the mocking commentary of Goebbels’s diary and Speer’s unreliable memoirs. It seems that Hitler extracted from Speer the promise that he would do everything ‘to raise resistance to its utmost limit’. And Speer was not able to persuade Hitler to withdraw his order to scorch the earth ahead of the invaders. Goebbels reported simply Speer has ‘given in’. Both Speer and Hitler chose to preserve their relationship until the very end. Speer objected to Hitler’s Nero order, but not to his face. It was only after his final conference with the Fuehrer that Speer issued detailed instructions for the execution of the evacuation order, effectively countermanding Hitler’s intention. Local authorities were permitted to paralyse German industrial facilities and render bridges unusable without blowing them up. It was action at th