ich. It was the frustration of Barbarossa as a military project that determined that the victims of the Holocaust numbered almost 6 million, not the 11.3 million enumerated by Heydrich. Even before it had fully unfolded its murderous aspect, the Third Reich’s effort to destroy the Soviet Union, to create a last- ing empire in the East and to completely overturn the balance of global power had come undone.  Page 483 of 800 59% Leningrad.§6 The German and Finnish pincers closed around Leningrad in early October 1941. Two and a half million civilians and soldiers were trapped in a giant encirclement. Uncertain about the cannot become worse as a result of this step; it can only improve.’ As was to become apparent by November 1941, this was to hope in vain. The German programme of depopulation and colonization As we have seen, the success of Barbarossa turned on the ability of the Wehrmacht to paralyse and destroy the Red Army on the Dnieper—Dvina river line, within 500 kilometres of the border. To describe this as optimistic is an understatement. In this respect as well, Barbarossa qualifies as the last great example of a colonial land-grab: an extraordinarily presumptuous attempt by a medium- sized European state to impose its murderous will on a supposedly less-developed people of vastly greater number. Fundamentally, the Germans assumed that the Soviet leadership was so weak and incompetent that it would be incapable of using its superior manpower and considerable military equipment to suck them into a war of attrition. The huge gains made in the first weeks of the campaign seemed initially to vindicate this arrogance. On 3 July, army chief of staff Franz Halder famously concluded that the battle had been won.2 The bulk of the Red Army had been eliminated ‘this side of the Dvina and Dnieper’. Finishing off the campaign in the East would demand the Wehrmacht’s attention as a mopping-up operation, but it was time for the German leadership to turn its mind towards futur