ning of the air attacks, Speer explained, ‘we have, it is sure, had a slow rise in production but only about 3 to 5 per cent monthly. That is absolutely insufficient.’8 In fact, Speer was over-optimistic. The monthly index of armaments showed no consistent increase whatsoever in the second half of 1943. Speer also acknowledged that Germany had fallen behind in terms of the quality of its weapons:  We have lived through times in army equipment when our tanks were inferior to those of the Russians . .. The Luftwaffe in the course of the last two years has quite indubitably suffered from an absolute inferiority, a technical inferiority to the weapons of the enemy. And you can see from this example what it means to be able to procure the quantity and to be qualitatively inferior. This is quite insupportable in our situation.  The hope for the coming months was that Germany would soon be able to match the quality of its enemy’s weapons, thanks to the breakthroughs of its scientists and engineers. What Germany now needed was to compound its technological advances with a renewed surge in the quantity of production. And Speer hammered home his message:  It is not only possible, it is necessary. It is urgently necessary because we are no longer in the happy position as we were after the French campaign [summer 1940] when we could determine what the  ee ee Only ifthe enemy air attacks can be stopped will it be possible to think of an increase in production. If, however, the air attacks continue on the same scale as hitherto, they [the Zentrale Planung] would, of the German air war, shot himself.22 Erhard Milch completely lost his composure, proclaiming to an audience of Gauleiter, Ministers and senior civil servants: ‘We have lost the war! Definitely lost it. Kehrl had seen the Four Year Plan come and go. He had no time for Speer’s loose talk of armaments miracles, or for his managerial style of ‘organized improvisation’.©2 As the man most closely involved entire department s