.2 During the crucial weeks in August 1941, however, he was unable to mobilize full support either from Army prisoners of war trudged westwards to die behind German lines.2Z In the second week of October 1941, Stalin’s regime came close to breaking point.28 Following rumours that the Communist and October the supply dumps in Gomel, Roslawl, Smolensk and Witebsk were lucky on any given day to receive even two-thirds of the stores needed to maintain Taifun at full strength.22 And though the Red Army suffered terribly, the Wehrmacht also paid a heavy price. By mid-October, 4th Panzer division had been reduced to only 38 vehicles after a devastating encounter with the T-34s of the 1st Guards Rifle Corps.22 The Panzers were no longer invincible. The Wehrmacht’s luck was running out. Within two weeks of the opening of Taifun 10th Panzer division had lost 140 of its 200 tanks. The pride of the division, Lieutenant Walter Rubarth, who with a squad of men had single-handedly forced the Maas river crossing on 13 May 1940, was killed on 26 October 1941 in the bitter fighting for the Minsk-Moscow motorway. Lieutenant Heinrich Hanbauer, who had followed Rubarth on that heroic day on the Maas, had died on the Beresina bridge four months earlier.31 And as if to drive home the contrast to the heroic mood of May 1940, on 8 October the autumn rains began. Within days the entire central sector of the German army was turned into an impassable quagmire. By the end of October, Army Group Centre was halted 100 kilometres short of Moscow.  II  Throughout the autumn the scale of the Wehrmacht’s victories was enough to naner aver the mounting dissonances in Germanv’s strategic nasition. In the third week of Ausust 1941 Keitel. as chief of GToup Ceritre, OF from braucihitscen, COM Mandaer-in-Ciler OF the ariny. Arter a series Of rather fait-nearted Conrrontations, mitier got Nis Way. Kather than preparifig fOr afl Oren sive COWardsS IWLOSCOW, planning for a direct thrust towards the Soviet ca