h West Germany certainly had a functioning democracy, the scope of political debate was also incomparably more re- stricted than it had been in the 1920s. The most explosive issues of Weimar politics-the question of territorial integrity and the question of military parity-were removed, it seemed, for ever from the nolitical aganda The acanamic mirarla urac the ahidine nraneeiinatian af the Wact Garman Raniuhlic ac it urac far the ract af Purqne Tha drama of turanty_five waare af unnracadantad acanamic crauth  Page 672 of 800 82% statisticians hesitate to plumb the aepths to wilich Germany Nad railen Dy the end Of i745. Money Nad iong since ceased to function in any ordinary sense of the word. Une estimate ror 1746 puts political agenda. The economic miracle was the abiding preoccupation of the West German Republic, as it was for the rest of Europe. The drama of twenty-five years of unprecedented economic growth moved ‘politics’, in the classic sense, to the sidelines. Even the remarkable project of European integration resolved itself into an endless process of bartering over milk quotas and national rebates. The catastrophe of the Third Reich had not brought about the extinction of Germany, but what it had done was to draw the curtain on the classic era of European politics. Sixty years later, what else there might be to politics in Europe beyond the tiresome squabbles of discontented affluence remains an open question. members of the Nazi party were rounded up for interrogation and summary trials. Many thousands were executed. lhe Western powers, not surprisingly, adopted more legalistic procedures. Kougnly Appendix:  Supplementary Data  Table Al. The current account: Germany’s dependence on foreign resources  Page 673 of 800 83% stricted than it had been in the 1920s. The most explosive issues of Weimar politics—the question of territorial integrity and the question of military parity-were removed, it seemed, for ever from the Balance of trade in services, inter