n authorities only intensified. Added to this imperialist euphoria was the financial bonanza of the first years of the war. The industrial boom over which the Nazi regime had presided since 1933 continued unabated into the 1940s. The war-related industries were swamped with orders, investment in machinery and plant accelerated to record levels and from the summer of 1940 onwards there was a significant recovery in lucrative export orders. Certainly, businesses did not appreciate the bureaucracy of the war economy, the price controls, the wrangling over raw materials, the difficulty of getting hold of skilled labour. But in 1940, with domestic demand booming, profits rocketed to quite unprecedented levels.32 And it was surely indicative of the balance of influence in Hitler’s regime that the two party men who dared to challenge the business interest most directly—Paul Walter in coal and Josef Wagner as commissioner for price control-were both unceremoniously dumped in the course of 1941. Furthermore, though the winter crisis of 1941-2 was clearly a profound shock to German society, the unexpected recovery of the Red Army also meant that the war was now a matter of life and death. Defeat would mean not only national humiliation and the destruction of Hitler’s regime. The awful spectre of Stalinism now loomed over Germany and no group had more to fear from a Soviet victory than the leaders of German business.  The organizational expression of this intensified alliance between the regime and German business was the extension of Todt’s system of industrial organizations, which took place between Decem- ber 1941 and May 1942. Already in early December Todt had announced the reorganization of his Committee structure. Alongside the existing Main Committees for Ammunition, Weapons, Tanks  Page 558 of 800 68% re ee a — a Speer’s appointment.2© The Zentrale Planung was not an appendage of France created an identification with Hitler and his regime that was more complete than a