e averaged only 57 per cent of their German counterparts and for Soviet prisoners the figure was even worse, at 42 per cent. When one considered the special taxes levied on employers of foreign labour, the pay owed to the workers and the cost of housing and feeding them, it was clear that foreign workers were considerably more expensive to employ than Electrical engineering: specialist : 0.969 Bricklayer . 0.929 Road worker 36. 0.684 if not for the war economy as a whole. This ‘learning process’ began in 1940, intensified following the shock of the winter crisis of 1941—2 and finished amongst the ruins of the German home front in precise statistics, there were ‘only’ 2,300 deaths out of a total population of 1.6 million civilian Ostarbeiter in Germany.72 This was twice the rate of mortality in the German population and a third The unsatisfactory conditions prevailing in the first chaotic phase of the Ostarbeiter programme were well illustrated by the situation at Krupp’s home plant, the Gusstahlfabrik at Essen, in the autumn Krupp’s German workers. This is a relative statement. It does not mean that employing foreign workers was unprofitable. However, it does suggest that Krupp would have had good reason to prefer employing Germans, if it had had the opportunity to do so. Krupp (and this is certainly true for most other German businesses) employed foreign workers because there was no alternative. It did so, not because they were particularly profitable, but because they were the only labour available and because employing them was a precondition for continuing production. After 1942 employing for- eign labour was simply the entry ticket to the war economy. All subsequent investigations of the performance of Germany’s foreign workers suggested a considerable improvement in productivity relative to 1942.75 Eight months after the Krupp study, French workers were generally credited with 80—90 per cent of German norms. Eastern women came close to matching their German co