mal ration. Those underperforming would have deductions made from their rations. These deductions would then serve as bonuses for the above-average performers.26 The system was designed to manage scarcity. It implied no overall increase in the food ration. It simply rewarded the strong at the expense of the weak. The key idea was to concentrate Page 527 of 800 65% programme as a Compromise between 1deology and pragmatic necessity with the signs reversed. 1he demands of the war economy were paramount, but they nad to be reconciled with the require- performers.2§ The system was designed to manage scarcity. It implied no overall increase in the food ration. It simply rewarded the strong at the expense of the weak. The key idea was to concentrate the available food on those workers who were providing the best return per unit of calories. For the Ostarbeiter it implied a form of triage. Those falling below the norm were threatened by a fatal spiral of malnutrition and underperformance. Falkenhahn doubled as the chairman of the Reich coal organization in Upper Silesia and with his encouragement the system of performance feeding was soon adopted as best practice throughout the region. By 1943 it was getting national recognition. In his end-of-year message Albert Speer personally recommended the system.22 By the end of 1944 ‘per- formance feeding’ had been promulgated by order of the Armaments Ministry as standard practice in the employment of Ostarbeiter.58  The most extraordinary version of this emerging compromise between ideology and pragmatism, was the practice of ‘destruction through labour’ (Vernichtung durch Arbeit). The concentration camps of the SS, as opposed to the extermination facilities set up in 1942, had inmate populations, some of whom had been employed on the industrial projects of the SS since the late 1930s.52 In 1942, given the manpower crisis facing the Reich, Himmler enthusiastically advocated expanding the use of concentration camp labour. At the ti