rential compounded by the superior quality of the T34 tank. Even in combat aircraft the margin was 2:1.124 It was this industrial superiority, contrary to every expectation, that allowed the Red Army, first to absorb the Wehrmacht’s second great onslaught and then in November 1942 to launch a whole series of devastating counterattacks. It would be quite wrong, of course, to attribute the successes of the Red Army after the summer of 1942 entirely to brute force. By the autumn of 1942 the Red Army leadership was developing a capacity for operational planning to match that of all but the very best on the German side. On the other hand, it is also undeni-  Alla shat thn teleeenbn Af TL lence 2 A Lin nA an ee nn ween eld Leaver Lanne Pee anni a Leet fae thin aera nant weitere en tneial aennlind Lee Deen ntnla La ntacinn succeeded in escaping envelopment.. .’110 It again seemed as though the Soviet Union might be on the point of collapse. Given the disappointment of the previous winter and spring, the German public able that the triumphs of Zhukov and his colleagues would have been impossible but for the excellent military material supplied by Russia’s factories. To avoid misunderstandings, this is emphatically a story of Soviet success not German failure. In the third full year of the war there was little difference between the level of German and British armaments production. Two economies which in 1936 had had industrial sectors of roughly equal size were now producing roughly similar levels of armaments output.125 Britain of course benefited from the abundance of lend-lease, whereas Germany had to make do with far more meagre pickings in occupied Europe. Alongside armaments, Germany in 1942 also produced a far larger volume of investment goods than Britain, an advantage that would pay off by 1944 in substantially higher armaments output. The exceptional performer was the Soviet Union, which in 1942 produced twice as many infantry weapons, as many artillery pieces and