certainly took on impressive dimensions. In the last years of the war, the A4 programme was to emerge as the biggest single armaments project of the Nazi regime, costed at 2 billion Reichsmarks; a huge bill for a weapon that could do no more than inflict random devastation on the suburbs of London and Antwerp. It was also typical of Speer that he chose to stake his Ministry’s reputation on ‘miracle programmes’ that were offensive in nature. Both the U-boat and rocket programmes appealed to the  nranacandictic naod far vanaeanra Rut hwtha camatnablan thaw urara alen irralavant ta Garmanu’e ctratacin citiratinn What Carman naadad aftar 1049 urara nat maane of nffanca hit dafanca In  Page 616 of 800 76% — ee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee eee ee ee propagandistic need for vengeance. But, by the same token, they were also irrelevant to Germany’s strategic situation. What Germany needed after 1942 were not means of offence, but defence. In this respect, the Luftwaffe’s jet aircraft programme was far more promising. The Me 262, the world’s first operational jet fighter, was a truly extraordinary technological achievement. The fact that in 1945, in the most difficult of circumstances, Germany was capable of producing hundreds of these aircraft should give the lie to any claims about the inherent weaknesses in the German ‘technological system’. In the list of dei ex machina with which Hitler might have changed the course of the war, it is amongst the most commonly cited.10° But it is also one of the weapons most surrounded by self- serving post-war mythology. After the war, Ernst Heinkel, Willy Messerschmitt and the chief of Germany’s fighter forces Adolf Galland colluded in the construction of a highly one-sided account of the Me 262’s history, designed to celebrate the genius of German technology, whilst at the same time demonstrating the incompetence of the Nazi leadership. In their account, popularized in best-selling biographies and television interviews, it was the meddling of