lity foreign it iron ore and scrap, the steel  Ot a tt et i et i tn TA et ree te ee a ree . ee ee  Page 567 of 800 70% The first task of Speer’s new administration was to get to grips with this ‘ration inflation’. As we have seen, the crisis of the coal sector in 1941 had led to the formation 1n March 1941 of the Reich debates of World War I. Throughout his long career, Roechling’s overriding preoccupation was the expansion of German control over the Lorraine and its adjoining areas.4 But, despite his prominence question as far as the economy was concerned was clear-cut. ‘To justify the existence of the private economy we must achieve extraordinary performance ...If we... should not succeed, people are between Hitler’s regime and the leading elements of German industrial capitalism, to secure their common survival in the life and death struggle with Stalinism.£2 ubiquitous Voegler.£8 Voegler, in turn, entrusted the technical details to Hans Kehrl of the RWM. Kehr] was no steel expert. But he had consolidated his reputation as one of the toughest practitioners was haunted by the fear of a severe setback to steel output as a result of the difficulties in coal supply. By juggling steel types and supplementing with high-quality foreign iron ore and scrap, the steel firms in fact managed to maintain production at a relatively high level, at least until the last quarter of 1941.21 But after that output began to fall sharply, bottoming out in early 1942, when the supply of coal was severely disrupted by a renewed crisis of the German railway system, this time precipitated by the strain of covering thousands of extra kilometres of track in the Soviet Union. Having rearranged the system for allocating steel and adjusted allocations to bring them into line with actual output, Roechling’s overriding priority was to raise steel production. As early as the end of June 1942, Speer and Hitler had agreed that Germany would need to raise monthly production by at least 600,000 tons b