n the former Soviet Union, our knowledge of the fighting on the Eastern Front is still far from complete. But what is indisputable is that it was on the Eastern Front that the Third Reich was bled dry and that it was the Red Army that was chiefly responsible for destroying the Wehrmacht. By issuing the order for the attack on the Soviet Union, Hitler thus ushered in his own destruction.  Was this outcome inevitable? For some the question remains open.1 John Kenneth Galbraith, the celebrity economist who conducted the after-the-battle assessment for the US Army Air Force, put the case bluntly in an article published in Fortune magazine in 1945: ‘The simple fact is that Germany should never have lost the war . . ’2 According to Galbraith, the Wehrmacht’s invasion of the Soviet Union ended in disaster only because the Nazi dictatorship failed to mobilize the German economy sufficiently to supply the German army with the equipment it needed for victory. According to Galbraith, this under-mobilization was due to a mixture of overconfidence and incompetence compounded by a chronic lack of political will. As a result, the German home front was never asked to make the kinds of sacrifice that were taken for granted by its opponents. And for Galbraith the implications were far-reaching. German defeat was ‘conclusive testimony to the inherent inefficiencies of dictatorship and the inherent efficiencies of freedom’.3 Galbraith’s assessment was not original. He derived it from interrogations of Albert Speer and his staff, who strongly reinforced his voluntarist reading. Before 1942, according to Speer’s chief statistician, Hitler’s regime chose to operate a ‘peacetime economy at war’.4 Speer, who was widely credited for rousing the German war economy from its slumbers, suggested that if he had been placed in charge two years earlier, the Wehrmacht could have invaded the Soviet Union with twice as much weaponry. Hans Kehrl, the Nazi enthusiast who ann aera new Aetlintin na nee ti