wers could dictate the pace and intensity of the fighting.106 Up to the summer of 1942, it seemed as though Hitler’s greatest gamble, his alliance with Japan which announced that ‘in a campaign of little more than three weeks, the broad goals set for the southern flank of the Eastern Front... have been essentially achieved. Only weak enemy forces... have succeeded in escaping envelopment.. .’110 It again seemed as though the Soviet Union might be on the point of collapse. Given the disappointment of the previous winter and spring, the German public Oel, Germany’s freshly minted oil major, hatched plans to take control of British oil assets in Egypt.142 In Russia, the Einsatzgruppen were well into the second phase of their ghastly programme of on the production needs of the Luftwaffe and the navy.143 A few weeks earlier Hitler had stunned another audience by announcing that unless the oil wells of the Caucasus were taken by the end of the year that too would mean the end of the war.415 Ever Maginot Line on the sea.  Hitler knew that if he wanted to permanently cripple the anti-Nazi coalition he had only a few more months to finish the war in the East. But as in 1941 this begged the question: was the Red Army actually defeated? General Halder, chief of army staff, was already convinced by the end of July that the Ostheer was too weak to be able to force the Red Army to a decisive defeat. On 23 July, the day that Rostov was taken and Hitler announced the achievement of the major objectives of the southern operation, Halder confided to his diary that the ‘chronic tendency to underrate enemy capabilities is gradually assuming grotesque proportions and develops into a positive danger’117 Halder’s gloom was confirmed only days later by a violent Soviet counter-attack directed towards Rzhev at the heart of Army Group Centre.118 As Fromm had already spelled out in February 1942, the Ostheer was running out of manpower. Since starting its offensive, Army Group South had suffe