he public pricing system as a key element in his armaments miracle. In Speer’s account, the public procurement system that was in operation up to November 1941 was an aberrant outgrowth of state bureaucracy that positively encouraged inefficiency by granting firms a profit mark-up proportional to their cost-base. The higher a firm’s costs, the larger its profits.41 From 1942 onwards, Speer claimed, this system was swept aside and replaced by what is usually referred to as a ‘fixed price system’. All producers were asked to match a single standard price. Any profits they made by reducing costs below this standard price were theirs to keep. At a stroke of a pen, a gross inducement to inefficiency was thus abolished and German industry was set on course to efficiency and rationalization. Though this story-line was rhetorically compelling and has continued to attract historians, it was in fact a travesty of the real course of events.42 As we have seen, authorized profits under the existing guidelines were not in fact calculated as a percentage of costs, but as a percentage of capital employed.43 And the cost accounting guidelines were certainly strict.44 From the point of view of the new rationalization agenda, the essential flaw of the pre-Speer system was not that it allowed producers to inflate costs and prices as they liked. Nor was it devoid of incentives to efficiency. Once a price had been agreed, it was fixed and contractors thus had every incentive to cut costs.42 In the early years of the war, it was precisely the question of how to claw back the resulting ‘excess profits’ that was the source of controversy between the Reich Group for industry, the Reich price commissioner and the fiscal authorities. The real flaw in the system from the point of view of the rationalization agenda was that it did not set a single, standard price for all producers to aim towards. This, too, was not mere incompetence on the part of the authorities. The system was designed to ensu