close to breaking point.28 Following rumours that the Communist Guards Rifle Corps.322 The Panzers were no longer invincible. The Wehrmacht’s luck was running out. Within two weeks of the opening of Taifun 10th Panzer division had lost 140 of its 200 tanks. The retained its mobility.24 The navy was not so fortunate. In November 1941 the fuel oil situation of both the Italian and German navies was described by the Wehrmacht as ‘catastrophic’.35 In May 1941 and growing inflationary pressure.4° What particularly concerned the Reichsbank was the dramatic acceleration in the rate of money expansion that had occurred since April 1941. Between April and ‘three major military tasks [Soviet Russia, Mediterranean, England] that will take much time to resolve’. In the light of Germany’s strategic situation, the Reichsbank could not afford to be idle. Urgent ‘countermeasures’ (Gegenmassnahmen) were necessary, including a vigorous assault on the black market and a new propaganda drive to encourage popular saving.43 The Reichsbank also proposed a compulsory wartime savings scheme and a major increase in taxes to ‘cream off’ excessive purchasing power. To minimize military expenditure it demanded a ‘drastic reduction in the prices paid for armaments’.  Over the following months the Reich authorities made a determined effort to restore Germany’s fiscal balance. As has often been remarked,“4 the Third Reich did not resort to a major increase in personal income tax to finance the war. But, given the modest standard of living and the high per capita tax burden even before the war, this is hardly surprising. What the Reich did instead was to encourage saving and to raise taxes on profits and higher incomes.42 In mid-1941, the standard rate of corporation tax was raised from 40 to 50 per cent and then, as of January 1942, to 55 per cent. Revenue from this source rose by 1.5 billion Reichsmarks in 1941-2 and by a further 1.8 billion Reichsmarks in 1942-3.46 More important was the mortgag