ry, which had taken on ever more aggressive forms since the beginning of the war, was intensified. By 1943 the courts were issuing death penalties against Germans for defeatism and sabotage at the rate of a hundred a week. Even prominent businessmen were no longer immune. Indeed, Heinrich Himmler and the Gestapo made a point of singling out bourgeois defeatists for especially aggressive reprisals. In the autumn of 1943 two senior branch managers of the Deutsche Bank were arrested and executed for making defeatist remarks.24 A designated board member of the electricity giant RWE suffered the same fate, despite the intervention of Albert Voegler.25 In this drive to impose discipline on the German home front, Himmler could count on the full support of Albert Speer. As the crisis of the Third Reich deepened, Speer moved closer than ever before to the absolute centre of power. In so doing he made himself into one of the foremost advocates of radicalization and used his authority ruthlessly to silence debate about the wider rationale of the war effort.  Speer, of course, was not blind to the seriousness of Germany’s situation. When the Zentrale Planung met on 29 July 1943 Hamburg was still burning and Speer could not avoid drawing drastic conclusions:  Only ifthe enemy air attacks can be stopped will it be possible to think of an increase in production. If, however, the air attacks continue on the same scale as hitherto, they [the Zentrale Planung] would,  within twelve weeks, be automatically relieved of a lot of questions that they were now discussing... A greater output of fighter aircraft is the only means of preventing everything being smashed up, atharurica thaw micht ac wall nit a hilat thranch thair heade 56 in Hamburg.4¢ Though the attraction of Berlin as a target was obvious, it was a far larger objective than any of the Ruhr cities and it was at the very limit of RAF range. Furthermore, in industrial remarks.24 A designated board member of the electricity giant