and March 1941 the Reich Air Ministry author- turning out 2,800 high-performance aero-engines per month. On current trends, Anglo-American output would be twice that of the Axis by the end of 1942. ‘There is not a minute to lose .. ’, Milch declared. By the summer of 1942 Germany needed to increase its production of aircraft by 150 per cent, to roughly 3,000 planes per month.” The precise target set by Milch was new, but not the basic Given the cost of the hydrogenation process, it was unrealistic to assume that this could be produced from German coal. Hydrogenation was simply too expensive. Krauch’s promise therefore hinged on the assumption that the Wehrmacht would conquer the Caucasus in the next few months and that Germany by 1942 would be importing Russian oil at the rate of at least one million tons per annum.Z5 Here was the perverse logic of Barbarossa in a nutshell. The conquest of the oilfields of the Caucasus, 2,000 kilometres deep in the Soviet Union, was not treated as the awesome military- industrial undertaking that it was. It was inserted as a precondition into another gargantuan industrial plan designed to allow the Luftwaffe to fight an air war, not against the Soviet Union, but against the looming air fleet of Britain and the United States. III However optimistic the Wehrmacht may have been in the assessment of its own capacities, the sheer size of the task facing them in the Soviet Union could not be denied. Most fundamentally, the Germans were grossly outnumbered. Even allowing for the unreliability of Stalinist statistics, the population of the Soviet Union cannot have been less than 170 million in 1941. The population of Germany was less than half that: 83.76 million people in 1939.26 Though the German army that invaded the Soviet Union probably outnumbered the Red Army troops stationed in the western sectors,  Page 448 of 800 55% Koppenberg was also the driving force behind the proposal to build a gigantic new aero-engine factory.66 The idea o