1 As Halder now acknowledged, if there was any power in the 1930s and 1940s that exemplified the Fascist slogan of the ‘triumph of will’ over material circumstances it was not Nazi Germany, or  TDraniot Thaler hist Otalinla Mavwiat dintatarchin Mat antler did tha Carrint action nant nennls lilen ite Taavint nendanncans it nvadnd nanahla af cheavhina aneualting eaatler avantar than thaan ouffaend ber ane  Page 485 of 800 59% collapse somewhere soon, then it will be very difficult before the winter to hit them so hard as to eliminate them.&  a dozen have been smashed, then the Russian puts up another dozen.  In fact, Halder continued to underestimate the scale of the challenge facing the Wehrmacht in Russia. By the end of 1941 the Red Army had fielded not 360 divisions, but a total of 600.11 Fascist Italy, but Stalin’s Marxist dictatorship. Not only did the Soviet regime not crack like its Tsarist predecessor, it proved capable of absorbing casualties vastly greater than those suffered by any other combatant. And despite its relative economic backwardness, it proved capable during the emergency of 1941-2 of mobilizing a greater share of national economic resources.12 Rather than succumbing to its supposed lack of sophistication, the Soviet Union punched several classes above its weight. In large part this was an effect of terroristic coercion. But Stalin’s political power was inextricably tied up with the real achievement of Soviet industrialization, of which the excellent weaponry of the Red Army was the most dramatic expression.12 In France in 1940 the Wehrmacht had found ways of defeating France’s lumbering Char Bs. To the thousands of agile, heavily armoured T-34s that now began to pour off the Soviet production lines, the Germans had no answer. Hitler succumbed to doubt even before his generals. As early as the end of July he began to consider the possibility that the Red Army might not be destroyed in 1941. On his instruction, Wehrmacht high command issued a str