extraordinary powers granted to Speer to implement it, were out of all proportion to the significance of the tank in the overall war effort. Even at the height of the Adolf Hitler Programme, the share of tanks in total armaments production did not exceed 7 per cent. Meanwhile, other sectors were severely disadvantaged, both in practical and symbolic terms.2© Speer’s tank propaganda had its intended effect in focusing every German industrialist on the new top priority. Even if other programmes had high-priority rankings they found it hard to get the attention of key sub-contractors. The Luftwaffe, in particular, found it virtually impossible to get prompt delivery of crankshafts for aero-engines, given the priority now enjoyed by the Maybach tank engine factory. The Adolf Hitler Programme also hogged more than its fair share of freight capacity, holding up critical deliveries. So overwhelming was the furore created by the Programme, that the Luftwaffe resorted to the absurd expedient of applying ‘Panzer priority’ to aircraft orders, a privilege first granted by the Zentrale Planung in April 1943. And despite these handicaps, it was Milch’s aircraft production, not Speer’s tank programme, that was chiefly responsible for the continuing upsurge in armaments output in the first half of 1943. In May 1943 Milch SOE ae ee eee eee eee a ee Eee ee EEE eee eee ee ee ee with a major patriotic appeal to the tank workforce delivered at the Alkett-Rheinmetall tank plant in Berlin by Speer and Goebbels.1& Tank factories were authorized to go over to a seventy-two-hour in practical and symbolic terms.22 Speer’s tank propaganda had its intended effect in focusing every German industrialist on the new top priority. Even if other programmes had high-priority rankings matched Speer’s tank triumph with an even more dramatic record of his own: the production of 2,200 combat aircraft in a single month. This was in every respect a more significant achievement than Speer’s heralded producti