ted. Initially, Speer suggested to Hitler that Voegler himself should chair the RVE, but, as Speer noted, ‘He [Hitler] considers my suggestion of Voegler acceptable, but believes that Roechling would do the job even better. Leaves the decision to us.’&3 Speer of course took the hint. Hermann Roechling was certainly one of the regime’s most prominent industrial collaborators, but he was no advocate of a state dictatorship over industry. Amongst the active industrialists of World War II, Roechling was one of the senior exponents with a record stretching back to the annexationist debates of World War I. Throughout his long career, Roechling’s overriding preoccupation was the expansion of German control over the Lorraine and its adjoining areas.64 But, despite his prominence and excellent connections to the Nazi party, he had not been favoured in the final distribution of French assets in January 1941, losing out to Flick and the Reichswerke Hermann Goering. By 1942 Roechling was so antipathetic to the Reichswerke that he willingly cooperated with Ruhr interests to hold at bay any further extension of Pleiger’s interests.65 Pleiger for his part, was so suspicious of the heavy industrial establishment that he refused even to join the RVE’s presidium. => -_—  Page 567 of 800 69% unavoidable issue for the Zentrale Planung because the entire war machine would grind to a halt without fuel. Nitrogen, furthermore, was the key Ingredient both for explosives and fertilizer. However, more glamorous items such as tanks.2© Ammunition belonged rather to the visual repertoire of World War I than to the ‘Blitzkrieg’ campaigns of Hitler’s war. But shells, bombs and bullets in fact bartered between Speer and Albert Voegler, who as chairman of the Vestag supervisory board was still the dominant figure in the German steel industry.2 Instead of the unworkable idea of a steel Roechling would do the job even better. Leaves the decision to us.’63 Speer of course took the hint. Hermann Roechli