t we-we together-carry for our people the responsibility .. . responsibility for an achievement, not just an idea... and then take the secret with us to our of factories there, without being aware of the mass murders that were going on. To give just one example, in the autumn of 1942, in a report to Erhard Milch, Ernst Heinkel, one of Germany’s leading aircraft manufacturers, observed casually that it was virtually impossible to start up aircraft production in Poland, due to the disorganization being caused by the ‘extirpation of the Jews’, a remark which apparently required no further comment.Z! As we have seen, Paul Pleiger and Robert Ley had discussed the ‘final solution of the Jewish question’ with leading coal industrialists in the autumn of 1942.22 Speer, furthermore, had been fully informed of the decision to reallocate the European food supply in 1942. When in 1944 the SS undertook the evacuation of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews to Auschwitz, of which only a minority were designated for work, the movement of this huge number of people caused not even a ripple of consternation in the Armaments Ministry.23 No one could possibly have imagined that the camp at Auschwitz was intended to accommodate these people alive. At the very minimum, it would have required a major allocation of food, a measure which was never even discussed. The truth is that mass murder was not something that required any particular comment amongst men who were familiar with the realities of the General Government and the Eastern territories. Of course, no one liked to dwell on the gory details, or to be personally involved in the murders. But the enormity of the crimes that had been committed against the Jews,  the Saviet nriconers of urar and the civilian naniulatian of Factern Furane wac an anen cecret You all accept happily the obvious fact that there are no more Jews in your province. All Germans, with very few exceptions, realize perfectly well that we couldn’t have lasted t