l not doubt that the economic aspect presented many great difficulties, above all in the clearing of ghettos: in Warsaw we fought street battles for four weeks... Because that ghetto produced fur coats and textiles, we were prevented from taking it over when it would have been easy: we were told we were interfering with essential production. ‘Halt!’ they called. ‘This is war production!’ Of course this has nothing to do with party comrade Speer: it wasn’t your doing [italics JAT]. It is precisely this kind of so-called war production enterprise, which party comrade Speer and I will clean out together over the next weeks. We will do this just as unsentimentally as all things must be done in this fifth year of the war: unsentimentally but from the bottom of our hearts, for Germany...  And with this I want to finish about the matter of the Jews. You are now informed, and you will keep the knowledge to yourselves. Later, perhaps, we can consider whether the German people should be told about this. But I think it is better that we-we together-carry for our people the responsibility .. . responsibility for an achievement, not just an idea ... and then take the secret with us to our graves...  In the 1970s Speer claimed to have no memory of the afternoon sessions on 6 October 1943. He even had the effrontery to suggest that Himmler had addressed him personally at this critical point in the speech because the Reichsfuehrer SS was short-sighted, was not wearing his glasses and was, therefore, unaware that Speer had left the hall. In fact, it is far more likely that Speer, Milch and other key figures in the armaments effort sat through the entire address. In any case, it is grossly implausible to suggest that they were not acquainted by the autumn of 1943 with the atrocities that were being committed against Jews all over Europe and on the Eastern Front in general. Nobody could make visits to the Ukraine or the General Government after 1941, let alone oversee the operation  P