ition would be well nigh unassailable. But the position of the United States was precariously balanced. Whilst Roosevelt led the rhetorical assault against Hitler and encouraged Britain, France and Poland in their resist- ance to Nazi expansionism, isolationist currents in the United States were still strong. Hitler and the rest of the Nazi leadership could not help but interpret this complex situation through the dark haze of Manichaean anti-Semitism. For them, it was obvious that it was Jewish elements in Washington, London and Paris, bent implacably on the destruction of Nazi Germany, that were tightening the international encirclement. And it was this paranoid sense of menace that precipitated Hitler’s decision to launch his strike against Poland and then against the Western coalition that continued to stand obstinately in his way.  It is perhaps not surprising that this factor was not emphasized in the speeches that Hitler made to the military leadership between May and August 1939-certainly not in the notes taken by the military men who attended. But after the fact Hitler made no secret of its importance. Most emphatically in their conversations with the Italian leadership in the spring of 1940, both Hitler and  WILL we Wk nd 8 a et Ct a i tn Ad te ee et ee tt 2 et 2 et a ee te i at tt Ribbentrop stressed the role of world Jewry in forcing the pace of events in 1939. And what is more, this peculiar combination of strategic and economic factors, overarched by Hitler’s abiding anti- Semitic obsession, is capable not only of accounting for Hitler’s decision to go to war. It can also make sense of his subsequent willingness to escalate the conflict to an ever larger scale. The decision to risk a general European war over Poland, the decision in the summer of 1940, after having defeated France but not having defeated Britain, to begin immediate preparations for an attack on the Soviet Union and finally in November—-December 1941 the decision to support Japan in its