ringia, making his Gau into one of the true bastions of National Socialism. And after 1933 Sauckel remained true to his origins, a strong advocate of the left line of Nazi ideology, combining vivid anti-Semitism with deep suspicion of liberal capitalism and a florid commitment to the welfare of ‘ordinary’ German men and women. The Gauleiter also retained a keen eye for a populist public rela- tions stunt, joining one of the first U-boats to be sent against the Royal Navy as a stowaway. Such buffoonery, however, should not lead one to misjudge Sauckel. The simple contrast between Sauckel the plebeian radical and Speer the cool technocrat is doubly misleading. As will be argued in the next chapter, it radically underestimates the political role played by Albert Speer. And it also seriously underestimates Sauckel. He was more than just a Hitler loyalist. As Gauleiter in Thuringia he presided after 1933 over one of the key regional hubs of the German military-industrial complex.12 Situated in the heart of Germany, Thuringia was at the extreme range of Allied bombers. The town of Jena was home to Carl Zeiss, one of the Wehrmacht’s most indispensable suppliers. Suhl and Zella Mehlis were two of the oldest centres of gun-making in Germany. Rheinmetall, the Reich’s leading armourer after Krupp, maintained a large plant at Soemmerda. And Sauckel himself carried out the early Aryanization of Simsons & Co., one of Germany’s largest makers of pistols, rifles and machine guns. In 1935 Simsons was incorporated into the Wilhelm Gustloff Stiftung, Sauckel’s personal armaments holding, which by the early 1940s had an annual turnover of several hundred million Reichsmarks. Displaying a keen eye for the economic potential of Himmler’s carceral complex, Sauckel made sure that the largest of the second generation of concentration camps was sited at Buchenwald, just outside the state capital of Weimar. It was no coincidence, finally, that the underground manufacturing facilities both for