. Whereas Goebbels was becoming painfully aware of the difficulty of managing bad military news, the German armaments effort at least until the spring of 1943 developed largely without interference by the Allies. This was one arena in which the well-practised techniques of stage management could still be counted upon. Records could be broken and spectacular new weapons presented promptly for the Fuehrer’s birthday. Every tank, every aeroplane that came out of the factories reiterated the same solipsistic point: as long as Germany could keep on producing weapons of such excellence at an ever-increasing rate, its fate could surely not be sealed.  The increase in armaments output was real enough. But given the highly political function of the ‘armaments miracle’ the historical record of the Speer Ministry must be approached with a very wary eye. Too many historians have been far too uncritical in their acceptance of Speer’s rhetoric of rationalization, efficiency and productivism.12 A cold-eyed examination of the statistics suggests TEBE. U1 All AALVELL OVEST 6 CULILIIUULIOIIS LU INGSL PIUPasalitid, LIE ALIIIAIIELILS TIT ACIe Was UY tat LLIE TUL LEIVULLALLL. PLUM tiis 1itol Udo iil ills LIEW JUU, OVEEL Ulspla YOu a Cl€al CULSCIUUSTIE Sys Ul LIE Within months of taking office, Speer put a new and determinedly optimistic face on the armaments effort. In discussion with Hitler he devised an orchestrated propaganda display stressing the insiders noted that Speer gave no absolute figures.1& He made no mention of the fact that his indices were calculated with reference to well-chosen periods in 1941 when production had been particu- that the increases achieved after February 1942 were far less exceptional than is commonly believed. The sudden upsurge in German armaments production was far from miraculous. It was due to perfectly natural causes: reorganization and rationalization efforts begun long before Speer acceded to power; the ruthless mobilization of factors of product