, and not only on the part of Germany’s victims. Here is not the place to attempt a review of this horror. But since economic historians have ways of making disasters, such as that which Germany brought down upon itself in 1945, disappear from the long-run trajectory of economic growth, it is worth lingering a little on this scene.  The destruction and human misery in Germany in 1945 is barely describable in its scale.2 As the Third Reich collapsed, quite apart from the millionfold murder that Germany had committed across Europe, more than one-third of the boys born to German families between 1915 and 1924 were either dead or missing. Amongst those born between 1920 and 1925 losses amounted to 40 per cent. The rest of the German population was subject to uprooting and displacement on a truly epic scale. Whilst the 11 million Wehrmacht men who had survived the war in uniform were herded into makeshift prisoner of war camps administered by the occupying forces, a similar number of 9-10 million non-German displaced persons enjoyed an unwonted degree of freedom, whilst they waited to be repatriated to their homes in Eastern and Western Europe. At the same time 9 million German evacuees streamed back towards their devastated cities. Meanwhile, to the east there was an extraordinary human avalanche, as 14.16 million ethnic Germans were driven systematically out of their homes in Eastern and Central Europe by the embittered Slav population. Of this spectacular exodus at least 1.71 million would die en route. The country to which they ‘returned’ presented a scene of devastation and poverty that defies description. Large parts of Germany had been reduced to  64 ruthhle_ctraurn uractaland in urhich tha living nftan anviad tha daad’ 3 At laact 2 2 millinn aut nf a ctaclk nf 10 millian anartmante had haan dactrawvad Tn tha citiac hit hardact hw tha hamhina Inccac in inis pessimism, however, should throw Stark light on the group OF individuals who took Charge of the German war e