nsure that there was no further inflation, rations would in of 1942, the immediate goal was to match Hitler and Speer’s demands by raising output from its current level of roughly 31 million tons per annum to at least 36 million tons.23 In the longer term, voluntary basis, he would agree to any coercive measure, and this applied to the Western occupied territories as well, not only in the East.’24 However, given his experience with the malnourished and kind of brutal clarity. After a moment of stunned silence, Pleiger was left with no alternative but to reply: ‘My Fuehrer, I will do everything humanly possible to achieve the goal.’Z5 Somehow, the iron determination of National Socialist leadership would triumph over the natural limitations of Europe’s coal seams. We have already seen how the brutal consequences of this imperative were spelled out by Pleiger and Ley for the rest of the coal fraternity at the drunken Kaiserhof meeting in Essen in October 1942. If necessary, the foreign labour force would be worked to death. As Ley had put it, ‘after us there is nothing, everything will be over . .. Germany will be destroyed. Everybody will be slaughtered, murdered, burned and destroyed.’Z6 Nevertheless, in August 1942, in the more sober surroundings of the Fuehrerhauptquartier, Pleiger insisted on putting on record his ‘deep reservations’ about the feasibility of the steel plan.22 Inevitably, the agreement struck on 11 August was not the end of the steel saga. By October 1942 it was clear that Pleiger would not be able to meet the targets forced on him at the August meeting. When this broke into the open at the meeting of the Zentrale Planung on 23 October, Speer found himself facing a crisis of his entire ‘system’.78 To meet its expansion targets, the steel industry claimed to need 2.12 million tons of coal per month. In October 1942 it had received only 1.4 million tons and Pleiger now proposed to slash this to 925,000 tons. This would imply a 40 per cent cut in iro