ingrad to death would eliminate a large number of Communists and would relieve the Germans of the burden of feeding millions of people. The only real disadvantage was propagandistic. The foreign media would have a field day. In addition, the 18th Army feared the psychological impact on its soldiers of watching at close quarters as 4 million civilians starved to death. Evacuating the civilian population westwards, into the German-controlled rear areas, would deprive the Allies of their ‘horror story’. But it would force the Germans to find food for 4 million extra people and there could be no illusions on that score: ‘A large part of the people coming out of Petersburg will starve in any case.’ This too would upset the troops. Finally, there was the possibility of arranging with the Soviets for them to accept the evacuees. This would have propaganda advantages, but the Wehr- macht was concerned that the exodus from Leningrad might degenerate into a public relations disaster. Tens of thousands of civilians would clearly die en route to the Soviet lines. The one option that was never even considered was the possibility of feeding the Soviet population from German stores. By December 1941 Leningrad was in the grip of a severe famine. Over the Christmas period and Satie Pinas Sy ee THAD eam wee od eb fdeen Med a0 eho cts mPa 2 At eae 45-7 GR 8 pn nee oe ee th het cerattabls aiden ese £64 SRR T cee sendeee Hed ta sh Bees clever ss ecthe afte coos 68 2:- security operation of very substantial proportions.§1 With severe fighting continuing on all fronts, the Wehrmacht lacked the necessary manpower. Furthermore, harassed occupation officials could eastwards from Germany.® But given the inadequacy of the transport infrastructure even this was not enough. Army Group Centre never suffered hunger to compare with that which haunted the So- viet forces opposing them. But during the winter of 1941-2, with the transport system in disarray, many German soldiers did go without rations