rced to abandon the bat- tle in the main shipping lanes of the Atlantic.  As a direct result of this defeat, Doenitz, who had been appointed Commander-in-Chief of the navy in early 1943, turned to Speer, in the hope that he might be able to bring about an ‘armaments miracle’ for the navy.82 In exchange for subordinating the dockyards directly to the authority of the Armaments Ministry, Doenitz hoped that Speer would secure the manpower and materials needed to mass-produce a new generation of technologically advanced submarines. The hopes of the German navy rested on the revolutionary Mark XXI U-boat, arguably the world’s first true submarine. Prior to the advent of the XXI, the submarines of the German and other navies were designed to spend most of their time above water, where they could use diesel engines to maintain a reasonable cruising speed. U-boats only submerged and switched to their much less powerful electric engines when they were in direct contact with the enemy. The XXI by contrast was designed specifically to maximize underwater speed and endurance. Its streamlined form and high-powered batteries enabled it to reach maximum underwater speeds of 17 knots, enabling it to outrun British and American sonar systems. And it could cruise underwater for days at a time, needing to spend no more than three out of every twenty-four hours close enough to the surface for its diesel engines to suck air through a snorkel attachment. The problem, as with all Germany’s wonder weapons, was the time required to develop the excellent XXI design into a fully functional weapon that was suitable for bulk production. In the spring of 1943 the German navy estimated that even with an accelerated development programme, the soonest they could reckon with the first Mark XXI U-boats was November 1944. Series production could not begin before March 1945. This spelled disaster. Having lost the battle in the Atlantic, Admiral Doenitz could not afford to allow the Allies a breathing s