t on rearmament between 1930 and 1939. It was more than the combined total of all investment in the German economy between 1933 and 1938. It was approximately two-thirds of Germany’s GDP in 1941.36 Half a million marks was to be sunk into every square kilometre of Germany’s vast new Eastern empire. Assuming the territory was populated at the density of 80 persons per square kilometre, this implied an investment of 6,250 Reichsmarks per inhabitant. Here too there is no trace of backward-looking nostalgia. On the plans endorsed by both Himmler and Hitler, land remediation and agriculture would claim only 36 per cent of Germany’s investment in the East. The rest was earmarked for investments in transport infrastructure, industry and urban settlement.32 And this was only the state-directed element in Eastern economic development. Huge sums were expected to flow from private industry. The Reich, it was hoped, would provide at least 15.67 billion Reichsmarks from the national budget; 4.29 billion would come from a special fund at the disposal of Heinrich Himmler as RKF; German local government was expected to provide 3.04 billion. These public funds would be concentrated above all on forestry, infrastructure, road building and agricultural amelioration. The Reichsbahn was expected to contribute at least 1.5 billion towards expanding the railway infrastructure. Finally, in excess of 20 billion was expected to be raised on more or less commercial terms for industrial and urban development. If the Generalplan Ost had ever been carried out, it would have involved a massive re- allocation of German national capital towards the east.38  It was through the issue of costing and the consequent decision to rely heavily on forced labour that the Generalplan was linked directly to the Final Solution.22 As Himmler put it to a meeting of  ceaninr CC landare in tha crrmmar nf 10/49. Agriculture 35 21 populated rural areas of the Reich. In addition, the SS hoped to be able to attract 220