fort. with Speer’s design would be construed as tantamount to desertion.£3 Over the following months, Kehr] and his raw-materials staff were duly merged into the Armaments Ministry, where Kehr] also tion, Speer moved into an ever closer alliance with Heinrich Himmler. At the end of July 1943 Speer agreed that plant security operations in the armaments industry should be overseen by the Ss.64 German industry.£2 To celebrate the arrangement, Speer made a speech to an audience of one hundred leading Gestapo officers. The next day Speer and Himmler made a show of their new partnership at the annual gathering of the Gauleiter at the town hall conference centre in Posen, the capital of the Warthegau.£6 The programme of speeches on 6 October 1943 was extremely heavy. Apart from these key figures in the armaments effort was clearly no accident. It was calculated to make the regional leaders of the Nazi party aware of a new axis of power within the leadership of the Third Reich.  Speer’s speech, which he delivered immediately before lunch, was drastic in tone and reflected Germany’s critical military situation.£2 The purpose of his address Speer announced to the Gauleiter was ‘to remove from you in future any excuse that you did not know what we were dealing with... I receive again and again proposals from the respective Gauleiter which point to a misunderstanding of the present situation. I would ask you, now, in this hour, to be clear about this, that only the sharpest measures can ameliorate the situation for us.’ Speer reminded his audience of his triumphant address to the Sportspalast only a few months earlier, at which he had promised increases in armaments production of 15-20 per cent per month. The RAF’s sustained attack on the Ruhr had put paid to that. ‘Since the beginning of the air attacks, Speer explained, ‘we have, it is sure, had a slow rise in production but only about 3 to 5 per cent monthly. That is absolutely insufficient.’8 In fact, Speer was over-optimis