s personal favourite about the Third Reich. Stereotypes about incompetence, ideological obsession and bureaucratic infighting continue to haunt the literature to such a degree that it is at times hard to understand how the Third Reich was able to continue the war for as long as it did, unless, of course, one posits that the war economy, after the crisis at Moscow, was separated from the rest of the regime and placed under the leadership of ‘unpolitical’ businessmen and technocrats. In fact, the opposite was true. Following the frustration of its Blitzkrieg strategy in the autumn of 1941, the leadership of the Third Reich proved capable of yet another act of innovative, strategic improvisation. From the spring of 1942 onwards, the new leaders of the German war economy combined an expansive effort at indus- trial mobilization with some of the most destructive components of Nazism’s ideology, to fashion a radical new synthesis of total war. This was not a strategy that promised Nazi Germany any real chance of victory. In this sense, the turning point in December 1941 was final and decisive. But it did allow the regime to survive for a remarkable three and a half years, despite the overwhelming material superiority of its enemies. It allowed the SS to complete a large part of the mission that Heydrich had outlined at Wannsee and it also ensured that the Third Reich, unlike the Wilhelmine Empire, Fascist Italy or Imperial Japan, went down fighting, taking with it millions of its enemies. The key to this awful resilience of the Third Reich lay precisely in the alliance formed in the aftermath of Moscow between some of the most brutal exponents of Nazi ideology and the key powerholders in the German economy. The essential arbiter of this concord between political clout and industrial muscle was Albert Speer.  17 Albert Speer: ‘Miracle Man’  Page 547 of 800 67% STLE UPSOTIOL UL Lillis Lialil OL ALSUITICIIL 1b LilAl LIE ELAM CULLIAUICLIOI VELWEEI CCUIUIIUES ALIM LUEULUEY WiL