, as Heydrich had intended, with ‘destruction through labour’ (Vernichtung durch Arbeit).5& The opportunity for the latter was provided by the construction of a Group Centre, the ‘ration’ allocated to Jewish inhabitants of Minsk and other cities was no more than 420 calories per day.28 In most places less was available. Over the winter of 1941-2, tens of thou- sands of Jewish men, women and children succumbed to hunger and hunger-related illnesses. But it was the Soviet prisoners of war from whom the Hunger Plan exacted the heaviest toll.52 In the first phase of Barbarossa no less than 3.3 million Red Army soldiers fell into the hands of the German army. The Wehrmacht could not claim that it lacked experience in dealing with prisoners of war. On the Western Front it had coped quite adequately with 2 million men taken in the space of only two months. But in advance of the Barbarossa campaign an order was given to exempt Soviet prisoners from the normally accepted standards of the Geneva Convention. Special guidelines were laid down for the isolation and execution of those judged to be politically dangerous. The prisoners were to be separated into distinct ethnic categories. No adequate preparations were made for housing them over the winter months. In so far as any thought was given to the matter, the assumption seems to have been that they would dig mud dugouts. Special rations were prescribed providing far less nutrition than for any other category of prisoner. Even well-managed prisoner-of-war camps are not healthy places. Many Red Army soldiers were in a poor condition when they were captured. Many were wounded or suffering from shock and exhaustion. Many had not eaten for days. To add to their misery they were forced to march out of the combat zone in treks stretching over hundreds of kilo- metres. Given normal mortality rates, one would have expected tens of thousands of deaths. But the statistics leave no doubt that, aside from this ‘normal attrition’, the Weh