uck to this script three months later, in August 1944, in what had become his annual speech to the Gauleiter at Posen.2° Returning to his promise of the previous year, Speer boasted that despite Allied bombing the output of U-boat tonnage would have tripled by the end of the year.  In fact, however, there was no part of the German war effort in which the gulf between armaments propaganda and reality was more extreme. The ‘hidebound’ traditionalists of the dockvards were  Page 612 of 800 75% miracie for the navy. in exchange for subordinating the dockyarads directly to the authority of the Armaments Ministry, Voenitz hoped that speer would secure the manpower and materials needed with little concern for efficiency. For men such as as Blohm, Speer believed, the ‘old system of ship-building’ had become ‘almost a form of Weltanschauung’.82 The alternative, predictably enough, was In fact, however, there was no part of the German war effort in which the gulf between armaments propaganda and reality was more extreme. The ‘hidebound’ traditionalists of the dockyards were proved right on every point. Merker’s attempt to rush the untested Mark XXI model into mass-production was an expensive fiasco.21 The U-boat presented for Hitler’s birthday in Danzig was a hastily thrown together mock-up, which leaked so badly that it had to be towed back into dry dock as soon as the crowds had dispersed. Of the 80 Mark XXIU-boats delivered by the end of 1944, not one was fit for operations. By the end of January 1945 only four of Speer’s miraculous U-boats were ready for action. Only two ever went to sea in anger. Neither scored a single success against Allied shipping. Captured Mark XXI U-boats provided the template for much of the world’s submarine industry in the 1950s, but they had no practical impact on the war whatsoever. In part, the disappointment of the XXI programme was due to the familiar problems of pushing a a revolutionary new design straight from the drawing board into mass