upply of raw materials, the production of armaments in Speer’s sector was overseen before and after February 1942 by the system of Committees set up by Fritz Todt in the aftermath of the ‘ammunition crisis’ of 1940.28 Responsibility for the Committees within the Armaments Ministry lay with the so-called Technisches Amt. Head of the Amt was Karl Otto Saur. Any idea that the Speer Ministry was a haven of ‘unideological efficiency’ is rendered absurd by the central position occupied within it by Saur. Saur (1902-66) was the living embodiment of the ‘political engineer’. A former employee of the Thyssen steel firm, Saur had joined the party in the 1920s. By the late 1930s he had risen within the National Socialist league of German technicians to become Fritz Todt’s deputy. After Todt’s death, Saur rapidly developed a close working relationship with Speer. And he continued in his role as the Rottweiler of the Armaments Ministry until the very last days of the war. By that time Saur was notorious throughout German industry as a blunt-talking and intemperate bully, who was by no means averse to physical violence. On at least one occasion during a plant visit Saur personally assaulted a group of recalcitrant workers.22 Speer for his part made no secret of his admiration, indeed his fondness for Saur. And it was altogether fitting that, following his disillusionment with Speer in April 1945, Hitler in his last will and testament named Saur as his successor as Armaments Minister.  Saur’s Committees were both key organizing devices for armaments production and key points of political connection between the Reich authorities and German industry. After Walter Rohland reported back from his apocalyptic tour of the Eastern Front at the end of November 1941, the mood in the boardrooms of the Ruhr was bleak. There can be no doubt that the crisis shook the confidence of even the most loyal business leaders in Nazi Germany. For some, such as Walter Borbet of the Bochumer Verein, the s