many and that at a time when American industry was well short of its productive peak.©2 By 1944 the ratio of steel output, even if we add the output of Belgium, France and Poland to the German side, was 4.5 to 1 against Germany. What Germany faced by 1944 was simply the crushing material superiority that German strategists had always feared. Germany’s conquests early in the war certainly did something to offset this disadvantage. A further mobilization of ‘foreign capacity’, notably in France, was one of the trump cards with which Speer sought to rally the German war effort in the autumn of 1943.66 Between 17 and 19 September 1943 Speer and Kehrl hosted French Minister of Production Jean Bichelonne in Berlin to discuss the possibility of a major increase in the outsourcing of production to France. Given the state of the French economy, however, this was a last-ditch effort of little practical significance. Over the entire period from 1939-45, the occupied territories were undeniably important to the German war effort. Above all, they provided labour, food and raw materials. They also provided a gigantic territorial cushion without which the Wehrmacht could never have prolonged the end of the war until 1945. What they could not do, however, was to offset the overwhelming industrial advantage imparted to Germany’s European enemies by the involvement of the United States. We have seen how derisory was Luftwaffe outsourcing early in the occupation of the Western territories. The situation did not improve significantly later in the war. In 1943, the last full year of occupation, the combined deliveries to Germany of military equipment from France, Belgium, the Netherlands, the General Govern- ment, Denmark, Norway and Serbia amounted to only 9.3 per cent of total armaments production. £7 Only in ship-building, communications equipment and motor vehicles did the occupied territories make a notable contribution to the combat equipment of the Wehrmacht. In absolute terms, i