gained a new lease on life after 1942 in a defensive role, as night fighters in the battle against the RAF. Since RAF Bomber Command flew its missions without fighter escorts, the task of night interception put little premium on absolute speed or manoeuvrability. To track down and destroy the slow-moving bomber streams, what the German crews needed were bulky electronics and heavy guns which could be easily accommodated in the twin-engined bombers of 1930s vintage. It was not until the US Army Air Force began escorted daylight bombing raids in the second half of 1943, directly challenging the Luftwaffe’s fighter forces, that the true costs of Milch’s development decision began to make themselves felt. The mainstay of the Luftwaffe’s daytime defensive strength were Me 109s. Of the huge increases in aircraft output achieved by Milch after 1942, these fighters accounted for by far the largest share. When it was first combat-tested in the Spanish Civil War in 1937, Messerschmitt’s 109 had been state of the art. Five years later, due to deficiencies in its aerodynamic design, it was reaching the limit of its performance envelope. Equipped with bulky new engines, the 1943 version of the Me 109, the Me 109 G or ‘Gustav’, could match its British, American and Soviet rivals in straight-line speed. but onlv bv sacrificing combat agilitv. According to one American ace who flew all the maior combat aircraft of World War II. the poor handling of the Me 109 G made it ‘unaccent- Page 578 of 800 71% 1920s and 1930s, both in Germany and the United States.25 Furthermore, it would be misleading to counterpose the agenda of Werner, Frydag and Co. as ‘rational’ rationalization to the ‘fantastic’ straight-line speed, but only by sacrificing combat agility. According to one American ace who flew all the major combat aircraft of World War II, the poor handling of the Me 109 G made it ‘unaccept- able as a fighter’, ‘obsolete’ from the start, ‘a hopeless collection of lumps’ and ‘bumps’.14 A