f war on the United States the need to achieve a decisive success against the Red Army was more pressing than ever. In this crucial respect Speer’s Armaments Ministry failed. In 1942, in the first full flush of the ‘armaments miracle’, Germany was considerably outproduced by the extraordinary mobilization of the Soviet economy. This Soviet effort was unsustainable. By 1944 Germany had caught up with and overtaken the Soviet Union. But as both the Soviets and the Germans knew, the summer, autumn and winter battles of 1942- 3 were the key to deciding the war on the Eastern Front. And in this crucial period it was the Soviet factories that prevailed. This window of opportunity was so important because during most of 1942 Britain and America’s offensive operations against the Third Reich were marginal in their impact. As of the autumn of 1942 this was no longer the case. The weight of British and American material made itself felt first in North Africa and the Mediterranean, then in the defeat of the German U-boats and, as of the spring of 1943, in sustained aerial bombardment. Combined with the elimination of Mussolini in July 1943, the opening of a significant ‘second front’ had a truly dramatic effect. For six months in 1943 the disruption caused by British and American bombing halted Speer’s armaments miracle in its tracks. The German home front was rocked by a serious crisis of morale. By July 1943 the war was obviously lost. The final, famous acceleration of German armaments production in 1944, on which the reputation of Speer’s Armaments Ministry largely rests, took place amidst a maelstrom of apocalyptic violence that consumed the lives of millions of people and laid waste to a large part of the Continent. First in the Mittelbau and then in the brutal practices of the Jaegerstab, the murderous violence of the SS police state was imported directly into the war economy. Tens of thousands of out-of-date fighters were squeezed out of Germany’s factories in the first