42 were to be the Ukraine and France. However, it was in the General Government that the interlinking of food policy and genocide was most clear-cut.  As we have seen, after the occupation of autumn 1939 the most fertile regions of Poland had been annexed to Germany, leaving the General Government as an agricultural deficit territory. In the first year of the German occupation, Backe and Governor General Frank had agreed on food imports from the Reich that were sufficient to give food to those Poles working for the Germans. The majority of the Polish population were left to fend for themselves. The result was an epidemic of malnutrition and outright starvation, particularly amongst the Jewish population confined in the ghettos. Faced with Germany’s food shortage in 1942, Backe went much further. He now demanded that the Governor General should reverse the flow. Rather than receive food supplements from Germany, the Gen- eral Government was to make sizeable food deliveries. In the critical weeks between May and August 1942, in which the murder of the Jews of Poland accelerated to its most awful intensity, Backe and Himmler combined to exercise massive pressure on the administrators of the General Government to reduce the food consumption of their territory. And in these negotiations, Backe predicated his demands specifically on the elimination of the Polish Jews from the food chain. On 23 June 1942, two months before the harvest, Backe confronted the administrators of the General Government for 0 eee ee a eS SS ee ee ee ieniniecte! intimal the first time with the Reich’s new demands. When the local officials protested that the existing Polish rations were too low and that it would be impossible to raise the necessary supplies, Backe replied: ‘In the General Government there are currently still 3.5 million Jews. Poland is to be sanitized within the coming year.’24 Eliminating the Jews would not only reduce the number of people that needed feeding; it would also remove