the Japanese timetable for a surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, Hitler pledged himself to following Japan 1n a declaration of war on implications for operations in the coming year. Even Keitel was worried ‘that the Ostheer will not get back up by the summer and then that there will be no petrol’22 Thomas was more preoccupied production, and Hans Kehrl, Todt had harboured serious reservations about the Russian campaign from an early date.22 In November 1941, as Army Group Centre fought its way towards Moscow, Todt dispatched Rohland and a team of armaments industrialists to the very front of the German advance, to visit General Guderian at his headquarters in Orel. They returned deeply depressed. By contrast with the Soviet forces whose men and equipment were obviously well adapted to fighting in extreme conditions, the Wehrmacht was freezing to death. For leading representatives of German industrialism, the picture presented by the Ostheer in November 1941 was deeply shocking. As Rohland reported: ‘Our troops were far too lightly dressed, in some cases wrapped in blankets! An assorted nicture of frozen-11n cars ahandoned at the side of the road. with Panie carts drawn hv Russian nonies doings their hest to nrovide inadequate sunnlies. The tanks could not he emnloved: if the ae =e FY ee ee ee SS ee implications for operations in the coming year. Even Keitel was worried ‘that the Ostheer will not get back up by the summer and then that there will be no petrol’.2? Thomas was more preoccupied assorted picture of frozen-up cars abandoned at the side of the road, with Panje carts drawn by Russian ponies doing their best to provide inadequate supplies. The tanks could not be employed; if the motors and gearboxes still worked, the weapons failed due to freezing up. 122 On his return, Rohland immediately scheduled a meeting in the Ruhr with Albert Voegler, chairman of the supervisory board of the Vestag, and Borbet of the Bochumer Verein. On 28 November they confronted Todt in