ctually spent by the end of the war.42 In terms of sheer scale, the chemicals plant dw d the expanding extermination centre that the SS established just a mile to the west. Nor was Auschwitz an isolated investment. IG Farben’s decision to build the fourth rubber plant at Auschwitz-Monowitz (Dwory) incorporated it into a triangle of huge chemicals projects in eastern Upper Silesia. The other nodes were Heydebreck, also built by IG Farben for the production of iso-octane air fuel, and a second synthetic fuel plant built at Blechhammer by the firm that was originally to be awarded the Auschwitz site. Altogether, the Upper Silesian chemicals complex must have consumed in the order of 1.3 billion Reichsmz or roughly 13 billion euros in modern money. It is commonplace to dismiss these projects as nothing more than ‘investment ruins’ (Investitionsruinen), exercises in murderous futility that bore no practical relation to the German war effort.22 Since all three chemicals facilities in Silesia were built at least in part by concentration camp labour, this impulse is more than understandable. The construction of IG Farben’s plant at Monowitz aimed the lives of at least 30,000 inmates.+! In light of such horror, it is easier to think of Auschwit a place of pure negativity, of destruction pure and simple.22 Unfortunately, however, the reality is more complicated and disturbing. It is true, as is commonly remarked, that IG Auschwitz never produced any rubber. But by 1942 it was no longer simply a Buna facility. Under severe pressure from the Berlin authorities to justify their huge investment, IG’s managers at Auschwitz decided in the summer of 1942 to start up methanol production at the earliest possible opportunity.23 Methanol was a vital ingredient of war production, both for aircraft fuel and as one of the basic ingredients in the manufacture of explosives.54 The first tanker load of methanol to leave Auschwitz-Monowitz in October 1943 was the occasion of a major celebratio