no less than 600 buildings. More than 300 of these were completed by the end of the war. In addition, thousands of inmates worked on the 4,000-hectare estate that Himmler had carved out of the surrounding Polish countryside, which was intended to be the leading centre for agronomical research in the German Fast 45 To sustain the ecanamv of the camn the SS anerated a variety af small-scale industrial nlants. including a Portland cement works. a quarrv_a slaughterhouse a dairv and a camn hakerv._ Only scale can now be realized. I shall set to at once on a large scale. . 41 East.45 To sustain the economy of the camp, the SS operated a variety of small-scale industrial plants, including a Portland cement works, a quarry, a slaughterhouse, a dairy and a camp bakery. Only in the final stages of the war did these various SS projects recede into the background in favour of immediate war production. In this mode, the coupling of labour and destruction at Auschwitz reached its high point in the summer of 1944, when the Jews of Hungary became the last great population to be sucked into the maelstrom of destruction.4& Whilst the gas chambers worked at full capacity to kill hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews judged unfit for work, tens of thousands of young men and women were selected for dispatch across Germany to the highest-priority armaments factor- ies of the Reich. In the case of the Holocaust, ideological imperatives were clearly paramount, but subject to pragmatic compromise as circumstances demanded. Conversely, one can describe Sauckel’s forced labour programme as a compromise between ideology and pragmatic necessity with the signs reversed. The demands of the war economy were paramount, but they had to be reconciled with the require- ments of ideology. As we have seen, when Germany invaded Poland in 1939 the intention had not been to equip Germany’s farms with an army of Polish workers. Himmler as chief of police reluctantly agreed to Backe’s demands, but only on