e firms in these consumer industries are to be And he asked the Gauleiter ‘to note one thing: there can and will no longer be any room for the former manner in which individual Gaue exempted themselves from closure programmes. It is not possible that one Gau rides a sharp race and the other Gau on the other side does exactly the reverse.’ Speer gave the Gauleiter a fortnight to implement his closure programme. After that, he would impose the closures from Berlin, ‘“... and I can assure you that I am quite prepared in this case to assert the Reich’s authority at all costs. I have spoken to Reichsfuehrer SS Himmler and I shall now deal with Gaue that do not execute these measures accordingly.’ Speer concluded with a rallying cry: If we carry out these measures with the necessary brutality and if you give me your support in the matter, then I am absolutely convinced that we shall be able to force through the advantage, which we have undoubtedly achieved in the quality of armaments, in quantity as well, in order to withstand the enemy and then to defeat him finally.  Having lost his own brother at Stalingrad, Speer was under no illusions about the nature of this struggle. But he did not hesitate to espouse the most brutal logic of attrition:  It must be us who have the last divisions. Particularly in the fight against Russia it will be decisive to be the one who can throw reserves into the field to the very end. I have no anxiety that we shall be able to supply the equipment ... we are in a position to do it if we are given the necessary support.  Not for a minute did Speer allow the possibility that this was not a battle that Germany could win. Against all the evidence to the contrary, he insisted that the German home front still had the will to  rantinde a5 As nt neennnnn crea ale elee 4 ethene AL 1 an Anenbin  Page 604 of 800 74% ine Sheet Wining _ a a a German industry.62 To celebrate the arrangement, Speer made a speech to an audience of one hundred leading Gestapo