urn, Rohland immediately scheduled a meeting in the Ruhr with Albert Voegler, chairman of the supervisory board of the Vestag, and Borbet of the Bochumer Verein. On 28 November they confronted Todt in a conference that ended, according to Rohland, with the conclusion that ‘the war against Russia cannot be won!’ The next day, Todt and Rohland met with Hitler at Fuehrer headquarters in the presence of Army Supreme Commander Brauchitsch. Rohland recounted his experiences in Russia and combined them with his intimate knowledge of British and American industry to paint an apocalyptic picture. Once the United States entered the conflict, there would be no way of winning the war. Todt then drove home the point by insisting: ‘This war can no longer be won by military means.’ Hitler listened calmly before asking ‘How then shall I end the war?’ To which Todt replied with the obvious conclusion: ‘It can only be ended politically.’ As we have seen, Hitler had already discussed this possibility with Goebbels in August 1941. But now, with negotiations already under way with Japan, he had other ideas.  Nor was the meeting between Hitler, Todt and Rohland the only discussion of a possible peace at Fuehrer headquarters in November 1941. On 24 November, as the drive on Moscow was approaching  = eS ee 1941.94 In part this can be blamed on an intrigue by Secretary of State Erhard Milch, who was determined to oust Udet from control of aircraft procurement. But it was not office politics that drove implications for operations in the coming year. Even Keitel was worried ‘that the Ostheer will not get back up by the summer and then that there will be no petrol’.22 Thomas was more preoccupied motors and gearboxes still worked, the weapons failed due to freezing up. 192 On his return, Rohland immediately scheduled a meeting in the Ruhr with Albert Voegler, chairman of the supervisory its end, Halder noted the despairing mood of General Friedrich Fromm, commander of the reserve army and direc