moved to alleviate the situation, the guidelines reaffirmed the essential connection between mass starvation and the continuation of the German ...A claim by the [local] population on the German administration ...is rejected right from the start. III German spearheads plunged deep into the western Soviet Union, immediately behind the line of the Wehrmacht’s advance the Einsatzgruppen of the SS began their work of murder. In total, the four Einsatzgruppen (A Baltic, B Belorussia and central Russia, C Ukraine, D Romania and the Crimea) numbered only 3,000-3,200 men. But the SS rapidly gathered around them tens of thousands of local militia.55 In addition, from the autumn of 1941 the Einsatzgruppen were reinforced by fresh contingents of German personnel—Waffen SS and numerous battalions of armed German police. The rate at which the Einsatzgruppen killed depended on the speed at which ‘their’ Army Group advanced and the density of Jewish population that they encountered. Einsatzgruppe A was certainly the most devastating. It was responsible for the destruction of the great Jewish communities of Lithuania and Latvia, starting on 25-6 June with a horrific pogrom at Kaunas. By the spring of 1942, Einsatz- gruppe A had claimed more than 270,000 victims, the overwhelming majority of whom were Jewish, more than half the total killed by all four Einsatzgruppen. Like the other SS teams, Einsatzgruppe A murdered by hand, using rifles, pistols and machine guns. Local helpers sometimes resorted to clubs and pickaxes. Amongst a defenceless and largely docile population this was enough to wreak havoc. The Judaeocide thus rapidly took on an awful and concrete reality. Indeed, so intense was this experience that it set in motion a learning process, which by the end of 1941 was leading to the first experiments with gas vans, a method considered more adequate to the humanity of the perpetrators. However, the vans never caught on. They were improvised and slow-working contraptions ned c