protein necessary to fuel Albert Speer’s armaments miracle. As we showed in Chapter 16, in the summer of 1942 even the wholesale gassing of the Jews of Poland was made to serve a functional purpose in this radicalized form of Total War. And from the summer of 1943 onwards Speer came to rely ever more heavily on a coercive partnership with Heinrich Himmler and the SS. The emphasis on rationalization in the management of the German war effort that emerged from the crisis of 1941 was certainly new. And after Speer’s appointment German armaments output did increase. However, to treat this as the apolitical expression of Speer’s technocratic abilities is to miss the point. The entire purpose of the ‘armaments miracle’ was political. Loudly trumpeted by the new line in ‘armaments propaganda’, it served to answer the fundamental doubt that increasingly beset the German war effort. The essential message of the rationalization campaign was that Germany’s obvious material inferiority need not be fatal. With the proper application of will-power and energetic youthful improvisation, more could be produced for less. And, as the Wehrmacht had so often demonstrated, there was no limit to what German soldiers could achieve, provided only that they had the necessary weapons.  The point is not of course to dismiss entirely the increase in armaments production achieved by Speer and Milch. It was real enough. But no less real was its strategic failure. The essence of Hitler's  enanelel an fon Thee nen b we 4 AF creme btettine Abn thn da alewedinnn aLesne man thn Telia d Ohatnn tho on mad tm oles ween = da atatere accnenes. 5 ate at tle Dad, A aentee cine «ane mane nenentnn ethene acsen Ten thin aasainl cnamant  Page 665 of 800 82% gamble in December 1941 was timing. After the declaration of war on the United States the need to achieve a decisive success against the Red Army was more pressing than ever. In this crucial respect Speer’s Armaments Ministry failed. In 1942, in the first ful