gten who was responsible directly to the Min- istry. In practice, Speer’s commissar was a trusted director of the firm, and Rudolf Blohm seems to have remained very much in charge. But the symbolic degradation of one of the regime’s most loyal industrial supporters could hardly have been more drastic.25 At the Deschimag yard in Bremen, which had been owned by Krupp since the end of 1941, the Speer Ministry went even further.2& Like Blohm, Deschimag’s Generaldirektor Franz Stapelfeldt had repeatedly criticized Merker’s sectional scheme and like Blohm he had found it impossible to meet the Ministry’s exaggerated targets. After months of increasingly acrimonious exchanges, Stapelfeldt was arrested by the Gestapo on 3 October and held hostage until the spring of 1945, forcing Krupp to appoint a new director more to the likins of the Sneer Ministrv. Page 614 of 800 75% proved right on every point. Merker’s attempt to rush the untested Mark XXI model into mass-production was an expensive fiasco.2! The U-boat presented for Hitler’s birthday in Danzig was a hastily threats against Blohm, announcing that to rescue the programme he would act ‘without consideration of person or status ... and if there [was] no alternative, also with the necessary hardness’.24 By liking of the Speer Ministry.  IV  However, to let the fiasco of the Mark XXI U-boat programme and the tension with the dockyards stand for the industrial politics of the Speer Ministry in the later stages of the war would be misleading.22 Not that the other miracle programmes of 1943-5 were significantly more successful in affecting the outcome of the war. But it is hard to think of any other industry in which relations between the regime and German business deteriorated as badly as they did in ship-building. The rocket programme and the jet aircraft programme, by contrast, exhibit an ever closer alliance between Albert Speer’s armaments Ministry, Heinrich Himmler’s slave labour system and Germany’s leading industrial