rs as possible within the Reich remained strong. Significantly, no one in Berlin, even in 1944, ever questioned the necessity of continuing to press-gang Polish or Soviet workers. As fresh recruitment from Western Europe ground to a halt in the second half of 1943, it continued with unabated brutality in the East.18 Between October 1943 and the summer of 1944 the retreating German armies in the East evacuated more than 400,000 people from the combat zone for work in Germany.12  In the most basic sense, therefore, the Third Reich’s immediate response to the winter crisis of 1941—2 was ‘rational’. Germany was short of labour. By any Western standard, there was no way of increasing the mobilization of the native labour force. So Gauleiter Sauckel and his staff sallied forth and brought literally millions of additional foreign workers to Germany. T The result was that,  Sr ee a oe a: i) Ace ie a ee a Se Pe Pe | ee ee Oa tt ate tat town of Jena was home to Carl Zeiss, one of the Wehrmacht’s most indispensable suppliers. Suhl and Zella Mehlis were two of the oldest centres of gun-making in Germany. Rheinmetall, the Reich's Charged by Hitler in March 1942 with special responsibility for foreign labour recruitment, Gauleiter Sauckel set in motion one of the largest coercive labour programmes the world has ever seen. Since the Nuremberg tribunal introduced the term ‘slave labour’ into the discussion, Sauckel and his programme have been variously described as ‘millennial’ and ‘Pharaonic’.45 Such terms certainly of increasing the mobilization of the native labour force. So Gauleiter Sauckel and his staff sallied forth and brought literally millions of additional foreign workers to Germany. The result was that, by the final stages of the war, the Third Reich was a society playing host to at least as many foreigners as the ‘multi-cultural’ Germany of today. Because of the overwhelming emphasis on recruiting young workers, the representation of foreigners in the workplace—both in