ubt even before his generals. As early as the end of July he began to consider the possibility that the Red Army might not be destroyed in 1941. On his instruction, Wehrmacht high command issued a strategic directive openly acknowledging this possibility.14 Indeed, Hitler’s moment of strategic realism appears to have gone further than this. When Goebbels visited the Hauptquartier in Rastenburg on 18 August 1941, he was shocked to find his Fuehrer talking of a negotiated peace with Stalin.15 For Hitler, furthermore, the possibility of a stalemate in the East had immediate operational implications. Ever since the first staff studies of Barbarossa, Hitler and the Wehrmacht high command had assumed that, if the initial assault failed to destroy the Red Army, stratesic economic considerations would take nrioritv. If Germanv was to face a lang war on two fronts it was essential to secure full control of the srain and raw materials of the Ukraine. as well as though it had suffered devastating casualties, had not been destroyed.2 It was still fighting and inflicting serious losses. The situation was at its most critical in the central segment of the front line operation is to start from this position with the slowly falling combat value of the troops, who are attacked again and again, I don’t quite know yet.Z A few days later Bock noted: ‘If the Russians do not collapse somewhere soon, then it will be very difficult before the winter to hit them so hard as to eliminate them.’ In fact, Halder continued to underestimate the scale of the challenge facing the Wehrmacht in Russia. By the end of 1941 the Red Army had fielded not 360 divisions, but a total of 600.12 inextricably tied up with the real achievement of Soviet industrialization, of which the excellent weaponry of the Red Army was the most dramatic expression.13 In France in 1940 the Wehrmacht had strategic economic considerations would take priority. If Germany was to face a long war on two fronts it was essential to s