e ————eEeE— vO firms that agreed to accept the new standard prices set by the Armaments Ministry to claim back a substantial share of their excess profit payments.48 For Speer, wider concerns about spiralling state expenditure and inflation were irrelevant. All that mattered was the enthusiastic cooperation of German business in his drive to maximize production.  II Teturn to DeLlow. however’, ii there Was One issue Chat Nad the potential tO sour relations more generally, 1t Was Che question OF pricifig, prorits alld taxes. AS We flave seen}, tis lad Dee#l a Inatter OF GeDate These measures of reorganization were accompanied by a rhetoric of reform and rationalization that promised to resolve the problems of the German war effort by producing more for less. This ideological trope, however, always competed in the vocabulary of the German war effort with a no less determined emphasis on radical mobilization. In this respect, Speer was to a large degree the beneficiary of wider efforts to rally and stabilize the regime.  Though Speer deliberately prevented the Reich’s fiscal authorities from making a major raid on corporate profits in 1942, the success of his Ministry was in no small part due to the continuing stability of the Reichsmark. This in turn depended in large part on the one-off fiscal exactions levied particularly on property owners in 1942. A major contribution to the Reich’s revenue was also of course made by the occupied territories. Together, the increases in domestic and external revenue were enough to stem the threat of inflation for at least another eighteen months. Even more vital to sustaining the German war effort were the increased supplies of both food and labour obtained from the occupied territories in 1942-3. The 280,000 workers drained from the armaments factories in the twelve months that followed the Moscow crisis were more than offset by an influx of 970,000 foreign workers provided by Sauckel. And the prime beneficiaries were in Speer’s s