r OF the ariny. Arter a series Of rather fait-nearted Conrrontations, mitier got Nis Way. Kather than preparifig fOr afl Oren sive COWardsS IWLOSCOW, planning for a direct thrust towards the Soviet capital defended by what were assumed to be the last remnants of the Red Army.23 awaited evacuation of the German and Austrian Jewish populations finally began. In the woods outside L6dz, Eichmann inspected what was soon to become an experimental gassing facility. On 17 Throughout the autumn the scale of the Wehrmacht’s victories was enough to paper over the mounting dissonances in Germany’s strategic position. In the third week of August 1941 Keitel, as chief of the OKW, chaired a meeting to coordinate the armaments plans of the three Wehrmacht branches on the explicit assumption that the land war was effectively over. Resources could therefore be shifted away from the army towards the Luftwaffe to meet the growing menace of the Anglo-American airfleet.32 Ironically, the determination of the German army to finish the war by the end of 1941 helped only to reinforce this illusion. Despite the ongoing fighting, the army procurement offices raised little or no protest about the imminent shift in priorities. By October, however, as Taifun ground to its first, muddy climax, the German war economy began to come apart at the seams.  The fuel situation, as long predicted by the Wehrmacht military-economic office, was rapidly approaching a critical point. By early 1942, it would not be the Russian mud but the exhaustion of Germany’s petrol supplies that would ensure the ‘complete paralysis of the army’.22 In the event, by dipping into the Wehrmacht’s operational fuel reserve and by throttling consumption, the army retained its mobility.34 The navy was not so fortunate. In November 1941 the fuel oil situation of both the Italian and German navies was described by the Wehrmacht as ‘catastrophic’.35 In May 1941 the Royal Navy had sunk the battleship Bismarck as it made a futile bid t