erg tribunal introduced the term ‘slave labour’ into the discussion, Sauckel and his programme have been variously described as ‘millennial’ and ‘Pharaonic’.15 Such terms certainly capture the increasingly brutal means to which Sauckel resorted in recruiting ‘his’ workers. But such anachronistic language also tends to obscure the fact that Germany’s programme of foreign labour conformed to the most elementary principles of classical economics. Labour had been desperately scarce in Germany since 1939. Per capita productivity was far higher in Germany than anywhere else Kehr, one of the most draconian advocates of total mobilization, never hoped for more than 700,000 additional female workers.’ These are not the kind of figures which could have made much of a in continental Europe. It made sense, therefore, for a ‘rational economic dictator’ to redeploy the workers of Europe so as to concentrate them in the factories of the Reich. The fact that Sauckel, with his woolly National Socialist rhetoric, did not conform to the ideal type of the technocrat should not obscure the basic rationality that underpinned his efforts. Of course, coercive recruitment had costly ‘side effects’ in the territories that Germany occupied. Later in the war, this was to persuade Albert Speer to favour increased trade in goods with France, rather than a last-ditch effort to extract millions of additional workers.16 However, the logic of this ‘European strategy’ was political, not economic. Speer wanted to stabilize relations with Germany’s western neighbour and he also wanted to unseat Sauckel.1Z In economic terms, given the desperate shortage of labour in Germany and the ever-increasing productivity gap between Germany and the collapsing economy of France, the case for concentrating as many workers as possible within the Reich remained strong. Significantly, no one in Berlin, even in 1944, ever questioned the necessity of continuing to press-gang Polish or Soviet workers. As fresh recruitment