41 take no account of the fact that ai t production takes time-at least six months from raw material to finished aircraft. It is hardly surprising, therefore, that the large increase in the Luftwaffe workforce in 1941 did not immediately result in a surge in production. One would not expect the output produced by additional workers to appear in the Luftwaffe acceptance figures much before the spring of 1942. And this, in fact, is precisely what hap- pened. A large increase in the Luftwaffe workforce in 1941 was followed six to nine months later by a huge surge in output. Normally this is credited to Albert Speer’s ‘armaments miracle’, which began with a major reorganization of the war effort in the spring of 1942. In fact, the evidence suggests that we should look to preparations begun at least a year earlier.35  ON fae) ON — t c D5 — py of key personnel. There are serious problems in going beyond this kind of broad-brush statement, because of the difficulty of obtaining truly comparable measures for both production and the work- sector, too, suffered from the disruption caused by Barbarossa. More importantly, however, hasty comparisons of output and employment in 1941 take no account of the fact that aircraft production II  n any case, as surprising as this may seem, the key to understanding German armaments strategy in 1941 is to recognize that, unlike in the first months of the war, it was not directed primarily towards maximizing immediate output.36 From the start of 1941, the Luftwaffe in particular was focusing its attention as much on the continuation of the war against Britain and the United States as it was on Barbarossa. Hitler himself set the tone with his address to the commanders-in-chief at Berchtesgaden on 9 January 1941. Treating the defeat of the Soviet Union as a foregone conclusion, Hitler sketched a future of boundless possibilities, in which Germany would wage a ‘battle of the continents’, by which he clearly meant a war with the United States.3