ng over hundreds of kilo- metres. Given normal mortality rates, one would have expected tens of thousands of deaths. But the statistics leave no doubt that, aside from this ‘normal attrition’, the Wehrmacht was systematically starving its prisoners to death. By the end of December 1941, according to the Wehrmacht’s own records, the prisoner count had reached 3.35 million.2 Of these, only 1.1 million were still alive and only 400,000 were in sufficiently good physical state to be capable of work. Of the 2.25 million that had died, at least 600,000 had been shot, falling victim to the Kommissar-befehl, which gave the Page 479 of 800 59% But it was the Soviet prisoners of war from whom the Hunger Plan exacted the heaviest toll.22 In the first phase of Barbarossa no less than 3.3 million Red Army soldiers fell into the hands of the starving its prisoners to death. By the end of December 1941, according to the Wehrmacht’s own records, the prisoner count had reached 3.35 million.£2 Of these, only 1.1 million were still alive and German army and the SS Einsatzgruppen the licence to execute any Soviet citizens thought to be politically dangerous. The rest died of ‘natural’ causes. Six hundred thousand died between December 1941 and February 1942 alone. If the clock had been stopped in early 1942, this programme of mass murder would have stood as the greatest single crime committed by Hitler’s regime.  Destroying the urban population of occupied Russia turned out to be far more difficult. To have completely shut off Minsk, Kiev or Kharkov from their agricultural hinterland would have required a security operation of very substantial proportions.£1 With severe fighting continuing on all fronts, the Wehrmacht lacked the necessary manpower. Furthermore, harassed occupation officials could see no logic in unnecessarily antagonizing the civilian population by implementing an immediate programme of genocide. It was necessary to make at least a show of feeding the population. Thoug