in productivity relative to 1942.75 Eight months after the Krupp study, French workers were generally credited with 80—90 per cent of German norms. Eastern women came close to matching their German counterparts. All studies of male Ostarbeiter performance also showed increases in productivity. The performance range was wide, 60—80 in one study, 80—100 in another, but in no case did it fall below 60 per cent of the German level. Only the performance of concentration camp inmates, and Russian prisoners of war employed in construction, remained at 50 per cent of the German level or less. There is little reason to doubt, therefore, that as the foreign labour population expanded in size, their average level of productivity improved, certainly when compared to the disastrous levels of 1942. German managers were finding ways to make the foreign labour system pay.  III  Page 536 of 800 66% Road worker if not for the war economy as a whole. This ‘learning process’ began in 1940, intensified following the shock of the winter crisis of 1941—2 and finished amongst the ruins of the German home front in of 1942.23 In the space of only a few months in the summer of that year, Krupp became a gigantic employer of foreign labour. The Gusstahlfabrik’s foreign contingent, which in January 1942 had All subsequent investigations of the performance of Germany’s foreign workers suggested a considerable improvement in productivity relative to 1942.25 Eight months after the Krupp study, Given the strength of evidence accumulated in support of the ‘compromise’ interpretation, there can be little doubt that it captures essential features of Nazi policy. Obviously, ideology was decisive in the last instance, especially in relation to the Judaeocide. There could be no other reason for killing one group with such awful thoroughness. The assumption of a racial struggle was an unalterable given in the Nazi worldview. On the other hand, it is also clear that, as the war ground on, sustaining the war