he Wehrmacht was to continue active operations in 1942, it desperately needed to replenish its stocks. Not only that, given the startling to blame the army for the derailment. He denounced the army’s new steel demands as an ‘unconscionable blackmail’ (unerhoerte Erpressung) and immediately took steps to involve Hitler. Hitler for his part was in no mood for arguments about raw materials. As Thomas’s office noted: ‘He refuses to believe that there are not enough raw materials. After all, he has conquered all of Europe. The armed forces must be given what they demand.’§ Only two days after the OKW had announced the reallocation of steel away from the army, Hitler decreed that the Wehrmacht should ignore the raw material rationing system altogether.£2 Rather than follow through on the decision to shift priorities towards the Luftwaffe, each branch of the armed forces was free until the end of the year to order as much material as it liked. With everything hanging on Army Group Centre’s agonizing progress towards Moscow, any pretence of strategic coherence in the organization of Germany’s armaments effort was simply abandoned.°8 §8 In fact, in light of of the exhaustion both of the workforce and of coal iI supplies, the Wehrmacht’s military- economic office looked forward to the upcoming holiday season  —te a a ee ee oe ee. ce i ie ae ae ante 3 a ee ie ae ee re ee ee rn PVs sELOOLUILES PLUIEL LALED AU SPS MY OM PRE VET. LALA LEAS CALE OO PLVMELE LUMO VUES EM MS AP PEM LELLVGAUELVELY OU ELLE SEALED AAI FTE EAA YRGAL. SME LAWL ALLIED ALE ME PLC RLALIU EL GLU WV ALINE WEE PLGALLL LLL would undermine the basis on which ‘industry had been working and managing its affairs’ for the last year.24 In the event, it was not Zangen and Stahl who resigned but price commissioner Wagner, apparently as a result of an unrelated intrigue by the SS.2° But the incident is nevertheless indicative of the tensions building up within the German war economy. In the autumn of 1941, even the Germa