ated to an uncertain fate in the Eastern territories. Most ominously, it neglects the gap in the German statistics between those who were deported from the Eastern territories and those who were registered as workers in the Reich. This gap numbers in the hundreds of thousands. There are similar questions surrounding the figures for Polish workers, of whom at least 130,000 died during their stay in Germany. Amongst the ‘Western workers’, the group that suffered most were the Italian soldiers interned by the Germans after the Italian surrender in the autumn of 1943. Of these unfortunates, no less than 32,000 were starved and worked to death over the winter of 1943—4. Totalling these deaths amongst various categories of forced labour after January 1942, we arrive at a figure of perhaps 2.4 million for the non-Jewish-worker victims of the Nazi regime. Added to the figure of at least 2.4 million potential Jewish workers we arrive at a total of at least 4.8 million workers murdered by the Third Reich after it confronted the military crisis of 1941—2, closer to 7 million if we include the Soviet prisoners of war killed in 1941. Page 520 of 800 64% Shh A OUIMLEWGE LEO CALLOIIIS LULL, LAID OGLE PALAUUAILGL LICCALILIEILL WAS GIO LAC LOM ULE LU ELLE RAV ELIE WIOLGALUICLLCL SOUL UMALOM CU MIRE IALLY Sh COVELL LO MOLLis SAUL Add LTE. Ahh PALE Lillo Wao have recaptured 34,457.27 But given these numbers it was clearly impractical to continue with conventional police methods. In September 1942 the chief of the Gestapo himself, SS Gruppenfuehrer people sick with tuberculosis and venereal disease rode in the same coach. The dying lay in freight cars without straw, and one of the dead was .. . thrown onto the embankment.’22 Obviously, this account is suffused with a sense of biblical exaggeration. However, a number of reports confirm the claim that the emaciated corpses of Ostarbeiter were dumped on German railway embankments,32 II  One could conclude from these staggering numbers tha