at had to be accomplished with a complete lack of sentimentality. Everyone in the room shared responsibility for both. Whether or not Speer was still present, Himmler clearly wanted his audience to believe that he was. Speer had repeatedly invoked Himmler in his speech. Himmler was returning the gesture. The idea that Speer or Milch would have wanted to distance themselves from anything that the Reichsfuehrer SS had to say, would surely have struck their audience as absurd. The entire purpose of Himmler and Speer’s joint appearance in Posen was to highlight the complementarity between Speer’s expanded authority over the civilian economy and Himmler’s new role as Reich Minister of the Interior. As we have seen, by the end of the year, the Gauleiter were to be formally coopted into this relationship, by being given political oversight over the local civilian administration in addition to their role as regional Reichsverteidigungskommissare (regional defence commissioners).24 The purpose of the Posen meeting was to unite the regional Nazi leadership around the new axis formed by Speer and Himmler in Berlin. The common ground was the shared commitment to a last-ditch defence of Hit- ler’s regime, a struggle motivated, at least in part, by their shared responsibility for a campaign of mass murder on a barely imaginable scale. Page 607 of 800 74% ——————_—E——— Te TO ————_E—_—— OO a Se eee eee eee Oe all in the clearing of ghettos: in Warsaw we fought street battles for four weeks .. . Because that ghetto produced fur coats and textiles, we were prevented from taking it over when it would have been which apparently required no further comment.Z1 As we have seen, Paul Pleiger and Robert Ley had discussed the ‘final solution of the Jewish question’ with leading coal industrialists in the autumn of 1942.22 Speer, furthermore, had been fully informed of the decision to reallocate the European food supply in 1942. When in 1944 the SS undertook the evacuation of hundreds of thous