eds of population Source: C. Madajezyk (ed.), Vom Generalsiedlungsplan (Munich, 1994), 91-123, doc. 23 such wide-ranging support because it concerned a practical issue, the importance of which, following Germany’s experience in World War I, was obvious to all: the need to secure the food supply of the German population, if necessary at the expense of the population of the Soviet Union. As we have discussed, the ‘bread basket of the Ukraine’ played a key role in all the various military-economic assessments of the Barbarossa campaign prepared over the winter of 1940-41. For Hitler, it was the key priority, to be achieved prior to any other military consideration, the importance of which was only reinforced by the alarming decline in the German grain stocks. By December 1940 the entire military and political leadership of the Third Reich was convinced that this was the last year in which they could approach the food question with any confidence. Nor was this simply a German  Page 476 of 800 58% cultural facilities : Minimum provision with educational facilities, cultural facilities and hospitals, the rest to be built with own funds Urban crafts ; 45,000 craft and other businesses for needs of population Urban utilities 6 Local infrastructure plus gas, sewerage and local transport fz problem. All of the Western European territories which had fallen under German domination in 1940 had substantial net grain deficits.  Unless additional sources of feed grain could be secured, the only solution was a mass slaughter of Europe’s animal herds reminiscent of the famous ‘pig massacre’ of 1916. Given the isolation imposed on the European continent by the British blockade, only the Ukraine could provide Western Europe with the millions of tons of grain it needed to sustain its animal populations. Not surprisingly, therefore, when Hitler gave the definitive order in early December 1940 to begin preparing for an attack on the Soviet Union, State Secretary Herbert Backe in the Agric