art from the IG building site at Monowitz, also provided labour to heavy industrial projects throughout Silesia. It was followed by Oranienburg, which contracted to supply Heinkel with 800 inmates in September 1942, and Ravensbrueck, which provided female workers to Siemens. Before long Mauthausen had struck up a relationship with Steyr Daimler Puch. Sachsenhausen serviced the Daimler-Benz plant at Genshagen. Dachau was in business with BMW. Other notable partners of the SS included the  nod aor a dower toe th ma oad staat 1. rat ane oe ter rn aor ooo Aler i. e Canaan ad  Page 528 of 800 65% PULSE Was talllalnourit CO COMMUMO! assdUlt alla SMlOuld DE LICAled as SUCTI IT Lie COULLS.~= POTEET! WOTKETS STLOUIC DE SUDJECL LO LE SULIClLest AisCipiine, OUL TESPOMSiIDIUIly Was LO Le WiItti Lille POLICE, coal miners was a central preoccupation of the German war effort from the spring of 1941 onwards. Providing miners for Paul Pleiger’s hard-pressed pits was amongst Sauckel’s top priorities.£2 But the DAF, Ley was jointly responsible with Sauckel for overseeing the foreign workforce. The key item on the agenda of the Kaiserhof session was the question of ‘how to treat the Russians’. =4 A remark- that would spell disaster. ‘After us there is nothing, everything will be over ... Germany will be destroyed. Everybody will be slaughtered, murdered, burned and destroyed. We have, after all, burned over those concentration camps not exclusively concerned with the Final Solution, most notably Dachau, Mauthausen, Sachsenhausen, Buchenwald, Majdanek, Stutthof and Auschwitz.62 Under Pohl’s Reichswerke Hermann Goering, the VW plant in Fallersleben, the Akkumulatorenfabrik AG in Hanover and Henschel’s Rax subsidiary in Vienna.®! Up to the end of 1943, the aircraft industry was certainly the chief industrial employer of inmate labour, with Heinkel, Messerschmitt and BMW leading the way.®2 But in the later stages of the war it is hard to think of any major new armaments facility that was n