ed the Germans to evacuate their garrison, permitting in Hamburg.46 Though the attraction of Berlin as a target was obvious, it was a far larger objective than any of the Ruhr cities and it was at the very limit of RAF range. Furthermore, in industrial contrast with the Ruhr, which was Germany’s chief supplier of the most basic inputs of coal and steel.47 Shutting down the Ruhr and the transport links that connected it to the rest of Germany had rushed to the Ministry and was informed of the dimensions of the disaster, he suffered a temporary collapse. For the first time in years, this obsessive workaholic was forced to return home where he spent hours roaming around his garden in a daze. Not surprisingly, as the news from Hamburg leaked, the Gestapo picked up reports of shock and dismay from across the country. Mussolini’s sudden removal added to the panic. The SD noted that party members were no longer wearing their party badges in public and people were avoiding the Hitler salute wherever possible.22 Speer found that even party audiences no longer responded to his boasts about the triumphs of the armaments miracle.2! Amongst senior industrial leaders, the SD reported, there was no longer anyone who believed in the possibility of a German victory.22 To admit as much in public, however, was extremely dangerous. The Nazi leadership reacted to the crisis of morale with a determined escalation of violence.22 On 24 August 1943 Heinrich Himmler, Reichsfuehrer of the SS, took over the Interior Ministry. By the end of the year the regional bosses of the Nazi party, the Gauleiter, had been formally instituted as the overseeing authority of local government. The party and the state were increasingly fused and it was the party that set the tone. The politicization of the judiciary, which had taken on ever more aggressive forms since the beginning of the war, was intensified. By 1943 the courts were issuing death penalties against Germans for defeatism and sabotage at the rat