te of the art. Five years later, due to deficiencies in its aerodynamic design, it was  ky new engines, the 1943 version of the Me 109, the Me 109 G or ‘Gustav’, could match its British, American and Soviet rivals in  titude dogfights, Spitfire and Mustang pilots found that they could often provoke their hapless German counterparts into crashing into the ground, so ent manoeuvre. Between 1942 and the end of 1944 Milch oversaw the production of almost 24,000 of these inferior aircraft. For thousands of Luftwaffe fliers who squeezed themselves into their cramped cockpits Milch’s mass-produced Messerschmitts became little more than death traps.105 per hour, this was absurdly sluggish. In low-a slow was the Me 109 G to recover from any vio! Production of Model  E begins O— Costs predicted by  Updated Model F  introduced  Updated Model G  ‘Gustav’ introduced  71% but tne price that Germany paid ror tis quantitative expansion 1n OUtTput Was a Nign one: the increasing tecnnological oosolescenice OF the Lurtwaltes armoury. AS early aS UCtODer 174i a COMMIS- sion of front-line airmen, charged by the air staff with evaluating t he Luftwaffe’s development programme, had expressed horrified disbelief at Milch’s demand for a large increase in the production of Heinkel 111s.193 The Luftwaffe had first tested this medium bomber in February 1934, when Goering’s air force was still in its clandestine phase. At the time the He 111 had been an advanced aircraft  RAF Bomber Command flew its missions without fighter escorts, t  he task of night interception put little premium on absolute speed or manoeuvrability. To track down and destroy the slow-moving   largest share. When it was first combat-tested in the Spanish Civi  War in 1937, Messerschmitt’s 109 had been state of the art. Five years later, due to deficiencies in its aerodynamic design, it was  able as a fighter’, ‘obsolete’ from the start, ‘a hopeless collection of lumps’ and ‘bumps’.104 At combat speed, it required four secon