esigned to vindicate the embattled system of ‘self- responsibility’ and to demonstrate its indispensable importance to the war effort. The evenings were taken up with an uplifting programme of classical music, including Bruckner, chamber music on landings in Normandy, Speer rallied the forces of the Ruhr with a lecture entitled simply ‘The Miracle of Armaments’ (Das Wunder der Ruestung).32 What is clear from the text of the speech, and his increasingly unwilling to speak in public, he agreed to make a major appearance on Speer’s behalf. On 24-5 June, in Linz, under tight military security, Speer organized a conference for all the key figures period instruments and an appearance by Herbert von Karajan.4! For a select group of delegates, the high point came on 26 June with a visit to the Plattenhof at Berchtesgaden, at which they were privileged to hear what was to be Hitler’s last public speech, a speech that Speer effectively wrote. As his script, Speer had provided Hitler with a restatement of the message that the Armaments Ministry had been peddling for the last two months. The ‘self-responsibility of industry’ was the key to success. The achievements so far were miraculous. Defeatism was unjustified. But to prevail, Germany needed one last effort. If German industry failed to meet the demands of the war, the consequences would be catastrophic. Speer clearly wanted to emphasize this point in particular. No mercy was to be expected, even from the Western Allies. Speer’s notes for Hitler were emphatic: ‘Should the war be lost! . .. merciless extirpation of German industry, to eliminate competition in world markets. The enemy has concrete economic plans, which confirm this.’42 To stave off this awful prospect, virtually any sacrifice could be justified. The brutal methods of the Jaegerstab would have to be put up with. But, once victory had been achieved, German business could look forward to a return of entrepreneurial freedom. As Speer-Hitler put it: ‘When this war