ream of fundamentally overturning the global balance of power, he had to strike fast and hard and he had, at all costs, to retain the initiative. This was the consistent if perhaps ‘mad’ logic that impelled first his decision to risk a general war over Poland in September 1939, then his decision to press home the attack on France regardless of risk and shortly thereafter to prepare for an assault on the Soviet Union. In the light of the threat posed by the British and American armaments effort, in the light of the frailties of the blockaded European economy and in the light of the apparent invincibility of the German army, there was every reason to press onwards as quickly as possible. Insisting on this strategic logic, however, is not in any way meant to obscure the Manichaean racial ideology that provided the animating force of Hitler’s government. For Hitler, ‘conventional strategy’ was inseparably intertwined with racial ideology. Strategy for Hitler was the grand strategy of race struggle. If it is true that Hitler’s decision to drive against the Soviet Union as early as 1941 was motivated by a strategic calculation centred on the war in the West, this does not make the attack on the Soviet Union any less ‘ideological’. As we have seen, for Hitler and the Nazi leadership 1938 had marked a fundamental shift. As it was understood in Berlin, the war in the West had been forced on Germany by the world Jewish conspiracy pulling the strings in London and Washington. From the Sudeten crisis onwards, this perverse hidden linkage came to be personified by Roosevelt on the one hand and by Churchill, the arch-opponent of appeasement, on the other. And as we have seen, this conspiratorial interpretation was maintained consistently throughout 1940 and 1941. Documents captured in the Foreign Ministries in Warsaw and Paris only served to confirm the view that Hitler’s decision to start the war in 1939 had pre-empted a vicious British and American plot to encircle and strangle