prisoners of war from whom the Hunger Plan exacted the heaviest toll.ยฃ2 In the first phase of Barbarossa no less than 3.3 million Red Army soldiers fell into the hands of the really considered. No, that is not quite right. Following the official instructions we were... not supposed to consider them. But the war has taken a different turn ... Under these circumstances we can- German army was the requisitioning of food.ยง3 The troops plundered huge quantities of grain, livestock and dairy produce. Nevertheless, the German armies were not able to sustain themselves at the levels they expected. Especially in Belorussia, where the bulk of German forces were concentrated, local sources proved inadequate in every respect. Large quantities of extra food had to be shipped eastwards from Germany.4 But given the inadequacy of the transport infrastructure even this was not enough. Army Group Centre never suffered hunger to compare with that which haunted the So- viet forces opposing them. But during the winter of 1941-2, with the transport system in disarray, many German soldiers did go without rations for days and sometimes weeks on end.6 Fundamentally, however, the Hunger Plan was never implemented in its full horror, because the German zone of occupation never included the two largest urban concentrations of the Soviet Union, Moscow and Leningrad. Though they were key targets in the planning of Barbarossa, the Wehrmacht never captured either city. Indirectly, however, this did fulfil the objective of the Hunger Plan. The c wa aoe c coo toe os own coa mon c Sr ee oe wie woud  Page 480 of 800 59% really considered. No, that is not quite right. Following the official instructions we were . .. not supposed to consider them. But the war has taken a different turn ... Under these circumstances we can- not afford not to consider the population in food terms. But where are we supposed to get anything from?ยง2 German army was the requisitioning of food.62 The troops plundered huge qua