geration. However, a number of reports confirm the claim that the emaciated corpses of Ostarbeiter were dumped on German railway embankments,32 II  One could conclude from these staggering numbers that the Third Reich was simply a regime for which economic concerns were of secondary importance. In the last instance, the primacy of the political was absolute. The murder of millions of racial enemies, regardless of their potential usefulness to Germany’s war economy, is incontrovertible proof of this.  Clearly, it would be absurd entirely to deny the force of this argument. However, over the last three decades, historians have accumulated a mass of evidence that suggests a far more nuanced picture. One model for thinking about this problem is that of a compromise between the more and less ideological elements of the Nazi regime.33 If one accepts that the Judaeocide was an ideological  a An — iii ‘never be extinguished’.2® 26 ( Coming from ‘unsentimental’ bureaucrats with < ample experience of the East, these were strong words. And they were confirmed by the behaviour of Ostarbeiter themselves. ee ae? end in itself, indeed an obsessive fixation of the Nazi leadership, then it is even possible to see the forced labour programme and the genocide less as contradictions than as complementary. Gauleiter Sauckel’s success in recruiting millions of workers from across Eastern and Western Europe made the Jews appear dispensable. 34 Only in Poland and the Ukraine did the Jews account for more than a small minority of the population. Everywhere else they could be murdered without seriously reducing the overall workforce at Germany’s disposal.35 Furthermore, this process of extermination had an autonomous bureaucratic logic because it was s carried forward on 1 the independent initiative and authority of the Ss, above all the RSHA, with backing f from Hitler and Himmler at ‘the very top. word of mouth and througn tetters nome, rumours soon spread apout the treatment that Ustarbei