jeop- ardizing the war effort by imposing a system of mass-production that was quite unsuitable to the situation of the German dockyards in 1943.  Merker’s system for the mass-production of the Mark XXI U-boats proposed that U-boat production should be split into three stages. In the first stage, the hull, which had to be manufactured out of heavy sheet metal, was divided into eight sections, each of which was assigned to a group of inland steel construction firms, firms such as the MAN subsidiary at Gustavsburg, one of Germany’s leading constructors of steel bridges.8Z In the second stage of the process, the huge steel cross-sections were delivered by special freight cars to dockyards, where they were fitted with all the necessary internal equipment and machinery. Finally, these prefabricated sections were transported, again by rail, to three dedicated assembly yards: Blohm & Voss in Hamburg, Deschimag in Bremen (purchased by Krupp in 1941), and Schichau in the East. Merker touted his system as providing three key advantages. It would mobilize a large slice of new capacity outside the traditional ship-building sector, by making use of inland construction firms. The dry docks themselves, which up to now had been the major bottleneck, would be occupied for the minimum amount of time required to assemble each OL NTUPP ds GEIIMAlMawelit, LO PUoll LiLOUSII a IlajOl LCOLEallizatlorl itl Lie PLOCUCLION OF LIE Stallard la Vil SUUI TALE. <= LOME-Sselies PlOCUCLION Was CHCOUTAREU Ill Lile ColaVilslled GOCKYalUs alla boat from the completed segments. Finally, it was hoped that by subdividing the process of U-boat building, the manufacturers at each step in the chain would be able to achieve significant scale economies. From the rolling of the steel plate to the delivery of the vessel, Merker promised that construction of each U-boat would take no more than 175 days. The first Mark XXI U-boat was scheduled for delivery in mid-April 1944, with mass-production to follow immediat