omic and military power, centred on the established states of Western Europe, no longer existed. This was the most basic fallacy underpinning the effort by the Third Reich to create an empire in the East. America’s emergence as an economic superpower on the one hand and the explosive development of the Soviet Union on the other had fundamentally altered the balance of global power. Hitler was not oblivious to this shift. An awareness of the stakes involved runs clearly through both Mein Kampf and his ‘Second Book’. The same  Page 508 of 800 62% — ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee Army Group South, preparing it for the push towards the oil of the Caucasus.128 There was now no argument that economics had to take priority. Oil was all-important. Nor did Hitler need convincing. from defeat.1°2 What Fromm had in mind was the extraordinary work of a group of physicists who theorized that the energy contained in the elementary particles of matter might provide both a theme was reiterated in his strategic assessments of the 1930s and early 1940s. The conquest of Lebensraum in the East was not, after all, the end point of the historical trajectory on which Hitler had embarked. The conquest of natural resources and territory to match those of North America was the precondition for a true programme of ‘modernization’, both for German society and the German military. It was through the achievement of Lebensraum on an American scale that the Third Reich hoped to achieve both the standard of affluence and the encompassing reach of global power already attained by Britain and the United States. As events between June and December 1941 made clear, Nazi Germany lacked both the time and the resources to take this first step. of Todt’s death, the fact that such suspicions were crowding in upon a man as level-headed as Walter Rohland 1s evidence of the acute sense of crisis pervading the leadership of the Third Reich. It is no Whilst Speer established himself in his new office, Ge