gly debilitated condition of Germany’s heavy industry. As usual, the problems circled around coal and steel. By the late spring of 1941, stocks of coal in Germany were virtually non-existent and output was well short of requirement. At a meeting of the Four Year Plan at the end of June, General Hanneken reported that the German Grossraum faced an overall coal deficit of roughly 40 million tons. This reflected both the lagging production of the pits and the ever-increasing demands of German industry.2° As a result, the occupied territories were being supplied at a rate of only 60 per cent of requirement.22 Within Germany, the steel industry was having its coal consumption throttled by 15 per cent and there was the threat that this might soon be increased to25 ‘Per cent.58 Even the Producers c of felectricity and gas could no longert be exempt. Cutting t the coal allocated to households was not an option, since to ensure  FD 2 ae a a Par ace ee ane See ee Se a rn er ee Se ee ee ee -e  1920s.+< ‘If one only had to reckon with a short war, the Reichsbank went on, ‘one could in extremis accept even such a development. But a short war now seemed ‘improbable’, since there were still to encourage saving and to raise taxes on profits and higher incomes.45 In mid-1941, the standard rate of corporation tax was raised from 40 to 50 per cent and then, as of January 1942, to 55 per quired to meet a standard price, set at the level of costs achieved by a ‘good firm’, minus 10 per cent.22 In total, the price commissioner hoped that this package of measures would bring in at least 2 billion Reichsmarks. 23 The response from industry, not surprisingly, was one of outraged indignation. Zangen and his deputy Stahl threatened to resign. Their industrial constituency could have no apparently as a result of an unrelated intrigue by the SS.5° But the incident is nevertheless indicative of the tensions building up within the German war economy. In the autumn of 1941, even the German Grossra