however, was seriously at odds with the plan of the campaign as envisioned by Halder. For Halder, the priority of Moscow was absolute. Only by concentrating all forces on this objective, he believed, could the Red Army be brought to battle and decisively defeated. So fundamental an issue was this for Halder that Hitler’s decision to water down the priority of Moscow caused him to ques- tion the rationale of the entire campaign. On 28 January 1941, Halder noted in his diary: ‘Barbarossa: purpose not clear. We do not hurt the English. Our economic base is not significantly improved. Risk in West should not be underestimated. It is possible that Italy might collapse after the loss of her colonies, and we get a southern front in Spain, Italy, and Greece. If we are then tied up in Russia, a bad situation will be made worse.’2 As in the autumn of 1939, therefore, Hitler and Halder were fundamentally at odds. As in 1939-40, Germany’s entire future was at stake. But unlike in 1939, Halder did not force the issue to the point of near mutiny. After the spectacular success of the French campaign, the army high command could no longer assert absolute authority in military matters. Hitler could claim at least as much credit for the victory in France, and Halder knew it. He may also have believed that, once battle was joined with the Red Army, his version of the campaign would nenail Aha all Lanrardas aunerann aneand in haninea that tha main urnels af danteuntian anand ha dann an tha Naianas Nerina viens linn  Page 454 of 800 56% —— ee ee OO OE EEE eee ee eee eee ee eee ee ee eee eee ——e——EeEE———e——————eE eee eee ee —— ae onslaught.87 But as the planners in Berlin fully understood, the First Five Year Plan of 1928-32 had established a new Soviet industrial base, safely to the east of the Urals, which had the capacity to a bad situation will be made worse.’25 As in the autumn of 1939, therefore, Hitler and Halder were fundamentally at odds. As in 1939-40, Germany’s entire future w