Speer Ministrv. Up to the summer of 1944 it would hardlv be unfair to sav that the Reich Ministrv had been  United States 4 1,685 : . 5 1,499 Britain 3,682 5. . . 5 Z 346 Soviet Union ‘ 5,501 306.5 Fife 4. E 495 Total, Allies 10,868 Germany Ital Jap Allies/Axis Germz III By the last years of the war, the devastating blows delivered by the Allies were rocking the German war economy to its foundations. However, to assign sole responsibility for Germany’s final collapse between 1914 and 1923. And this points to one more blind spot in the heroic narrative of the Speer Ministry. Up to the summer of 1944 it would hardly be unfair to say that the Reich Ministry had been oblivious to money as an essential instrument of macroeconomic management. As we have seen, in the interests of maximizing armaments production, Speer in 1942 had opposed the efforts of the price commissioner and Finance Ministry to cream off excess profits. The Armaments Ministry’s entire system of economic management had been based on extending and perfecting a mechanism of physical controls over German industry. By 1944, however, the problem of inflation was catching up with Speer. Money could no longer be ignored, even by the most fervent advocates of direct phys- ical control. In July 1944 Hans Kehrl’s planning office compiled a memorandum on ‘Purchasing Power, Prices and War Finance’, which began in dramatic terms: ‘The German economy’, Kehrl’s office declared, ‘is threatening to fall into an anarchy, against which even an extended and improved system of economic controls [Wirtschaftslenkung] will struggle in vain.’21 From top to bottom the erosion of the value of money was robbing economic actors of their incentive to comply with the demands of the regime, as well as their basic standards of economic calculation. Germany was on the slippery slope from a state-directed economy, in which private economic actors responded of their own free will to incentives provided by the central authorities, to a ful