increased. Herbert Backe, however, drew radically different conclusions. To enable the grain surplus of the Ukraine to be directed immediately towards German needs, it was necessary simply to cut the Soviet cities out of the food chain. After ten years of Stalinist urbanization, the urban population of the western Soviet Union was now to be starved to death.  That such a scheme should come from the pen of Herbert Backe can come as no surprise. He was a doctrinaire racial ideologue, a long-time associate of Walther Darré and a personal friend of Reinhard Heydrich. As we have seen, he had already demonstrated his willingness to use food as a means of genocide in Poland in the first year of the war. What is perhaps more surprising is the alacrity with which Backe’s breathtaking suggestion was taken up by the rest of the Ministerial bureaucracy in Berlin, above all by the chief economic expert of the Oberkommando Wehrmacht (OKW), General Thomas. At times, as we have seen, Thomas had toyed with opposition to Hitler’s war. But at heart, the General was a ruthless pragmatist. Germany’s future as a great power was Thomas’s only real concern. The raison d’étre of his office in the OKW was to prevent the kind of domestic crisis that had crippled the German war effort in World War I. Thomas was fully apprised of the precariousness of Germany’s food situation and saw no reason to quibble with Backe’s calculations. Furthermore, Hitler’s mind was clearly made up on the issue. He had set his heart on the Ukraine.  And taclinch tha areimant Thamnace alen had enarifirally military ranreane far cumnartina Racbale nrannecal Tn arly 1041 tha Garman arm ume ineraacinaly eancarnoad urith tha lacictical nranaratinne And to clinch the argument, Thomas also had specifically military reasons for supporting Backe’s proposal. In early 1941, the German army was increasingly concerned with the logistical preparations for Barbarossa. The map exercises conducted by the quartermaster’s staff reveal