1943 = 5.5 per cent May 1943-February 1944 average monthly growth ‘ate = 0 per cent Oct-1942 5) Dec-194: Figure 22. The armaments miracle halted: two years of armaments production under Speer (January-February 1942=100) Only three days after the Germans launched their assault at Kursk, the British and Americans landed on Sicily.43 Inexcusably, the Allies allowed the Germans to evacuate their garrison, permitting them to mount a vigorous defence of the Italian mainland without having to divert substantial forces from the Eastern Front. But the political repercussions of the invasion were dramatic. On 25 July 1943 the Italian army deposed Mussolini, sending shock waves throughout international public opinion. The days of the fascist dictators were now clearly numbered. That same night the RAF launched one last attack on Essen, combined with a probing raid against Hamburg. Three days later the British bombers returned and incinerated Germany’s second city in an apocalyptic firestorm the like of which the world had never seen.44 No fire had ever reached the intensity of heat generated in the eastern districts of Hamburg early in the morning of Wednesday, 28 July. Glass melted. Human bodies were mummified. Forty thousand people suffocated or were burned alive. In a matter of days, the British and American air forces destroyed a quarter of a million homes and reduced a large part of the central city to a mountain of 43 million cubic metres of rubble. Nine hundred thousand people were driven to flight. Panic and disorder spread throughout the surrounding towns and rural areas. It appeared to be the vindication of all the hopes that Churchill and the rest of the British leadership had for so long invested in strategic bombing. RAF Bomber Command was finally devel- oping into a truly war-winning weapon. < February 1942- May 1943 ( per cent ; fay 1943-February 1944 monthly growth -y Oct-194, II  In fact, it was to take nearly two more years to finish off the Third Reich. In I