prisingly, was one of outraged indignation. Zangen and his deputy Stahl threatened to resign. Their industrial constituency could have no confidence in them, if the question of profit clawback ‘was handled 100 per cent differently than had been agreed in many months of meetings with the price commissioner’. The drastic new proposals would undermine the basis on which ‘industry had been working and managing its affairs’ for the last year.>4 In the event, it was not Zangen and Stahl who resigned but price commissioner Wagner, apparently as a result of an unrelated intrigue by the SS.22 But the incident is nevertheless indicative of the tensions building up within the German war economy. In the autumn of 1941, even the relatively harmonious relationship between German industry and the armaments authorities-the political foundation of the war effort since Todt’s appointment in the spring of 1940-was under threat. Page 493 of 800 60% Amongst those with access to scarce commodities, such as farmers, craftsmen and small shopkeepers, barter trade was becoming the norm.*! At the current rate of monetary expansion, the price and Gauleiter Josef Wagner, began to demand drastic action.22 Wilhelm Zangen, the head of the Reich Group for industry, managed to deflect this initial attack.+1 But in the autumn of 1941, as anxiety quired to meet a standard price, set at the level of costs achieved by a ‘good firm’, minus 10 per cent.+2 In total, the price commissioner hoped that this package of measures would bring in at least 2 billion Reichsmarks. 53 The response from industry, not surprisingly, was one of outraged indignation. Zangen and his deputy Stahl threatened to resign. Their industrial constituency could have no An even more pressing challenge, however, was posed by the increasingly debilitated condition of Germany’s heavy industry. As usual, the problems circled around coal and steel. By the late spring of 1941, stocks of coal in Germany were virtually non-existent and outpu