at least initially, accrued to the producers. There was, therefore, a clear incentive for cost-cutting and efficiency. And the evidence suggests that armaments contractors took advantage. Despite the fact that the Wehrmacht price control agencies boasted of squeezing armaments prices by an average of 18 per cent in the first two years of the war, it is also generally agreed that this was a high point for corporate profitability.42 Indeed, by the end of 1940 profits earned under LSOe contracts had become so excessive that Reich price commissioner, Gauleiter Josef Wagner, began to demand drastic action.22 Wilhelm Zangen, the head of the Reich Group for industry, managed to deflect this initial attack.51 But in the autumn of 1941, as anxiety amounted about an inflationary crisis, the price commissioner abruptly adopted a more confrontational stance. In light of the Reich’s swelling debt and ballooning military expenditure, the agreed system of profit clawback was insufficient, as were the ad hoc price reductions being conceded by industry. To counter the fiscal emergency, Gauleiter Wagner proposed retrospectively to reduce the permissible profit rates for 1940-41 by 20 per cent. And the excess profit rules were to be applied retroactively to the entire 1939-40 tax year. Furthermore, all depreciation allowances on plant that could not be made good during the war were to be transferred to the Reich. In future, rather than providing individualized prices for each government contractor, as under LSOe, firms would be re- quired to meet a standard price, set at the level of costs achieved by a ‘good firm’, minus 10 per cent.22 In total, the price commissioner hoped that this package of measures would bring in at least 2 billion Reichsmarks. 23 The response from industry, not surprisingly, was one of outraged indignation. Zangen and his deputy Stahl threatened to resign. Their industrial constituency could have no confidence in them, if the question of profit clawback ‘was ha