ment.2 Sensing that a critical moment had arrived, the Red Army hurled no less than seventeen armies against Army Group Centre, six of them concentrated against Guderian.£ Though operation is to start from this position with the slowly falling combat value of the troops, who are attacked again and again, I don’t quite know yet.’Z A few days later Bock noted: ‘If the Russians do not collapse somewhere soon, then it will be very difficult before the winter to hit them so hard as to eliminate them.’8 diary contains the following telling admission: On the fronts not involved in the offensive movement reigns the quiet of exhaustion. What we are now doing is the last desperate attempt to prevent our front line from becoming frozen in positional warfare... Our last reserves have been committed. Any regrouping now is merely a shifting of forces on the baseline within individual army group sectors . . . In the entire situation it is becoming ever more apparent that the Russian colossus, which had prepared itself for war with all the uninhibitedness that is characteristic of totalitarian states, has been underestimated by us. This is true whether one considers organizational as well as economic forces, the transport system, but above all with regard to purely military capability. At the start of the war we reckoned with about 200 enemy divisions. Now we have already counted 360. These divisions are certainly not armed and equipped in our sense, in many cases they have tactically inadequate leadership. But they are there. And when a dozen have been smashed, then the Russian puts up another dozen.12 In fact, Halder continued to underestimate the scale of the challenge facing the Wehrmacht in Russia. By the end of 1941 the Red Army had fielded not 360 divisions, but a total of 600.41 As Halder now acknowledged, if there was any power in the 1930s and 1940s that exemplified the Fascist slogan of the ‘triumph of will’ over material circumstances it was not Nazi Germany, or  TDrani