ilable on a smaller group of productive workers. What the ‘national war economy’ certainly could not afford was to allocate food to foreign workers simply to keep them alive.  Backe, for his part, was clearly not oblivious to these arguments. In its comments, the OKW was merely extending the logic of the Hunger Plan, which Backe himself had devised. But Backe was in an impossible position. The Fuehrer had demanded more workers. Gauleiter Sauckel was dedicated to delivering them. Hitler and Sauckel now demanded that the workers be fed, which was clearly a necessity if they were to be productive. And yet, given the level of grain stocks, Backe was unable to meet this demand. What was called for was a reduction in consumption, not additional provisions for millions of new workers. The seriousness of the situation became apparent to the wider public in the spring of 1942 when the Food Ministry announced cuts to the food rations of the German population. Given the regime’s mortal fear of damaging morale, the ration cuts of April 1942 are incontrovertible evidence that the food crisis was real. Lowering the rations was a political step of the specific pian ror the extermination of the jewisn poputation of furope. rood cut across the contradiction between economics anda ideology, between the need for 1abour ana the lmperative ror genocide. of their situation and the improvement in productivity.Z2 It is for more reasons, therefore, than narrative consistency that we must return to the Hunger Plan, which bulked so large in previous it confirmed his deepest anxiety. Backe had not been bluffing in 1941. In light of the extension of the war into the indefinite future, Germany was facing a severe food problem.Z8 The German grain cent since the start of the war, triggering a cut in meat rations as of June 1941.89 Bread rations had only been sustained by making severe inroads into grain stocks. By the end of 1941, these were first order, which Backe would never have suggested if t