f the second generation of concentration camps was sited at Buchenwald, just outside the state capital of Weimar. It was no coincidence, finally, that the underground manufacturing facilities both for the world’s first jet fighters and the world’s first ballistic mis- sile were sited in Thuringia. To say that Fritz Sauckel was no novice in the industrial politics of the Third Reich is an understatement.  Chavend her Liitlas in Maenh 1049 arith enanial enanancithilite fas Faeaion Inhaue eaneiiteant Cnulaitas Caaaleal ant in matinn ann nf tha lavenct anavaivn lnhaue nencvammas tha urmeld hae aas cnan 11  Page 513 of 800 63% + + + This was frustrating, but in 1944 the Reich plenipotentiary for labour claimed that even with the ‘powers of Stalin’ he would be able to mobilize no more than 1 million additional women.7 And Hans Charged by Hitler in March 1942 with special responsibility for foreign labour recruitment, Gauleiter Sauckel set in motion one of the largest coercive labour programmes the world has ever seen.11 In the spring of 1941, Germany already employed 1.2 million prisoners of war, mainly Frenchmen, and 1.3 million ‘civilian’ workers, mainly Poles, accounting for 8.4 per cent of the workforce. Over the course of 1941, the number of civilian foreign workers increased by a further million, mainly from Poland. As we have seen, it was the demands of the Reich Ministry of Food and Agriculture that had set this programme in motion. And it was not until the debacle at Moscow that the needs of industry began to drive Germany’s import of foreign workers. Sauckel responded by mobilizing literally millions of workers from all over Europe. The arrivals were mainly young men and women. More than half the females drafted in Eastern Europe were teenagers between 12 and 22 years old.12 They were drawn from the occupied territory of the Soviet Union—the Baltic Republics, Belorussia, the Ukraine and to a lesser extent from Russia itself. Poland was Sauckel’s most intensive a