longer mattered. As Albert Speer and Erhard Milch well knew, 1942 was the pivotal year in the war. If the Third Reich was to have any chance of survival, they needed to give Army Group South the necessary equipment to inflict a crippling defeat on the Red Army. And thanks to the extraordinary efforts of the Soviet Union, they failed. 18 Page 585 of 800 72% No Room for Doubt  Though the exhaustion of the German Army in the East could no longer be ignored by the autumn of 1942, the material superiority of Hitler’s enemies first made itself overwhelmingly felt, not on the Eastern Front, but in North Africa.t And the moment at which the balance shifted can be timed very precisely. On 21 June 1942 Rommel’s tiny Afrika Korps humiliated the much larger British 8th Army at Tobruk. In immediate response, President Roosevelt dispatched the first of a series of emergency convoys to Egypt, loaded with 400 American tanks and self-propelled artillery. Once they arrived in Suez the Afrika Korps, whose tank strength rarely exceeded 250 vehicles, would be hopelessly outnumbered. After the first bloody confrontation at El Alamein at the end of July 1942, Rom- mel knew that he had no more than a few weeks in which to achieve a decisive success against the Commonwealth forces blocking the route to the Suez Canal. By 6 September, thanks to dogged Commonwealth resistance, massive British air superiority and a chronic shortage of petrol, Rommel’s last offensive had ground inconclusively to a halt at Alam el Halfa. The first Sherman tanks arrived in Egypt in the first days of September. By 11 September their number had risen to more than 300. General Montgomery could begin his counter-offensive confident of overwhelming numerical su- periority. On the night of 23-4 October, at the second battle of El Alamein, the 8th Army attacked with a fleet of almost 1,000 tanks, at least half of which were American-built and equipped with powerful 75 millimetre guns. By contrast, Rommel had only 123 up