OF MYALOESN AMO! Plallts, LO DE DULIE DY all 1% LICETISCE. DUL It) VECEIMIDEL 174U IG FALE!) IUSeil SCOULER UE Site LOL its LOp-priOrity PUvveEL Plallt alla a vital ingredient of war production, both for aircraft fuel and as one of the basic ingredients in the manufacture of explosives.24 The first tanker load of methanol to leave Auschwitz-Monowitz in his largest-ever allocation of steel. According to the records of the Four Year Plan, no less than 2.5 billion Reichsmarks were channelled into Krauch’s chemicals projects in 1940 and 1941.26 from America were worrying enough for the industrialist Fritz Siebel, an acquaintance of Hermann Goering’s, to appeal for an urgent increase in German aircraft production.2& that caused great embarrassment to the Luftwaffe. And it was clear that in the foreseeable future it too would need to be replaced. The Focke Wulf FW 190, which was nearing combat readiness in early 1941, offered a substantial advance in performance. But Focke Wulf’s management lacked the political clout of Willy Messerschmitt, and the BMW radial engine around which the plane had been designed was proving extremely troublesome. Messerschmitt’s other mainstay, the Me 110 heavy fighter was one of the real casualties of the Battle of Britain. Intended as a long-range escort for Germany’s bombers, it had been hopelessly outclassed by the fighters of the RAF. According to Ernst Udet’s plans, the Me 110 was soon to be replaced by the much improved Me 210. However, this aircraft was turning into one of the great development disasters of the war.£2 The same could also be said of Heinkel’s long-range strategic bomber, the four-engined He 177. The future of the Luftwaffe as a strategic weapon, and Heinkel’s future as a maior aircraft developer, depended on the performance of this plane. A dedicated factory annexe had been built at Heinkel’s state-funded 20 dS COMMUMOTPACe CO GISITUSsS LESe PLOjects das NOUNS MOLE Ullal) LIVEStIMent LUIMIS UMVESLILLOMSTULMEM), CACICISES