in the raw material field over the winter.’ The shortages were such as to render absurd the gigantic chemicals expansion schemes that Krauch had set out only a few weeks earlier. To provide of 35-40 million tons.61 million tons.62 Combined with the obvious limitations of German metalworking capacity, this meant that the Wehrmacht’s overall allocation would have to be sharply curtailed to prevent any further ments, equivalent to roughly six months of production, unmatched by any corresponding steel output. Within weeks of announcing the gigantic Goering programme, the Luftwaffe was forced by Keitel to settle for the extraordinarily modest objective of simply replacing the aircraft destroyed on the Eastern Front over the last two months. In the foreseeable future there was neither the steel nor the labour to complete the huge synthetic fuel and rubber plants that would be necessary to supply the gigantic air fleet envisioned a few months earlier. And whereas the Luftwaffe was merely frus- trated in its programme of expansion, the army faced truly devastating cuts. On 25 October 1941 the army’s steel ration was set at a miserly 173,000 monthly tons, a level not seen since before the May crisis in 1938.83 This drastic shift was fully in line with German armaments strategy since the autumn of 1940-shifting resources to the Luftwaffe and navy as soon as the battle in the East was won. But it was starkly at odds with the reality facing the Wehrmacht in Russia. As Taifun exhausted itself on the Smolensk highway, the German generals began finally to adjust to the realization that the Red Army would not be defeated in 1941. Faced with drastic cuts to its steel ration, the army procurement office panicked.&4 Without extra steel, it saw no possibility of resupplying the Ostheer to continue the war in 1942. And the army was not bluffing. As we have seen, the production of ammunition had been deliberately run down in 1940 and 1941. After months of intense fighting, stocks of shel