ssel, Merker promised that construction of each U-boat would take no more than 175 days. The first Mark XXI U-boat was scheduled for delivery in mid-April 1944, with mass-production to follow immediately. By the end of the summer 1944, the navy was promised a fleet of at least 30 revolutionary new submarines with 30 more coming off the production line every month. Following the Adolf Hitler Panzer Programme, Merker’s triumphant transformation of the U-boat industry was to be the next big success story for the Speer Ministry. It had all the important elements of the Speer storyline: conservative military bureaucrats and industrialists overcome by thrusting young managers (Merker), backed by the full authority and energy of Albert Speer, yielding the triumphant introduction of a radical new weapons system, capable of turning the course of the war against all the odds.88 Speer’s public relations machine made sure that the first Mark XXI U- boat was launched at Schichau promptly in time for Hitler’s birthday on 19 April 1944. On 12 May 1944, shortly after his recuperation from the serious illness that had debilitated him since January, Speer appeared before the Hamburg dockworkers to hail their achievements: ‘We are really experiencing a miracle. Not one of us would have believed it after the first attacks and the heavy attack on Hamburg. Then we said to ourselves: if this goes on for another few months, we are done for.’ In fact, they had pulled themselves out from under the ruins and now things looked ‘really not that bad’. The U-boat crews, Speer proclaimed, were the best of the best. Once they had the ‘the right boat under their arses, they would be off’.82 The Mark XXI U-boat was to be one of the key weapons in the battle for the ‘final victory’ (Endsieg). And Speer stuck to this script three months later, in August 1944, in what had become his annual speech to the Gauleiter at Posen.2° Returning to his promise of the previous year, Speer boasted that despite Allie