ships, from prefabricated sections.84 This, Speer decided, was the system that Germany needed for its Mark XXI U-boat. Since the ship-building traditionalists could not be expected to carry out this revolution, it would, following the Speer formula, have to be imposed by an ‘outsider’. As his man for U-boat production Speer chose Otto Merker. Merker was a perfect poster boy for the ‘Speer sys- tem’? 85 In his early forties, equipped with a curriculum vitae that included considerable time in tank development at the MAN works, Merker had joined Kloeckner- Humboldt- Deutz AGin 1 937 torun Page 611 of 800 75% tem’.85 In his early forties, equipped with a curriculum vitae that included considerable time in tank development at the MAN works, Merker had joined Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz AG in 1937 to run their Magirus engineering works, a leading producer of firefighting equipment. In a period of only six years he had managed to more than triple turnover. He came to Speer’s attention as the energetic director of the special committee for fire engines, a role that had headline-grabbing potential given the nightly incendiary attacks by the Royal Air Force. Whereas for Speer, Merker’s lack of experience in ship-building was a positive recommendation, for Rudolf Blohm, the patriarch of German ship-building, to be displaced by a man like Merker was an extraordinary insult.86 In an unusual and highly symbolic move, Blohm refused to retire voluntarily from his positions, either as chair of the Main Committee or the Business Group, forcing Speer to sack him. The real conflict, however, was not about Blohm’s personal authority, but about the future of German U-boat construction. What led Blohm and most of his colleagues into conflict with Speer was the firmly held belief that Merker was jeop- ardizing the war effort by imposing a system of mass-production that was quite unsuitable to the situation of the German dockyards in 1943.  Merker’s system for the mass-production of the Mark X