liest possible opportunity. This, however, ran foul of conditions in the General Government and the transport needs of the German army in advance of Barbarossa. Instead of the 250,000 people that Hey- drich had hoped to move by May 1941, the SS in fact managed to displace only 25,000. These, however, were merely short-term difficulties. The news of Germany’s impending attack on the Soviet Union unleashed euphoria amongst the SS staffs. The Soviet Union offered the chance to solve the problems of territory and population on a scale unimaginable in the confines of Poland. Unwanted bodies could be swallowed up in the wastelands of the East, huge tracts could be allocated for German settlement. Here finally was the stage on which to resolve the problems of population and space in a truly radical fashion. On 30 January 1941 Hitler repeated to the ecstatic crowds in the Sportpalast the threat he had made two years earlier.8 In a speech directed above all towards asserting the futility of Britain’s continued war against Germany, Hitler ended by restating his ‘prophecy’ that ‘if Jewry were to plunge the world into war, the role of Jewry would be finished in Europe’. Unlike in 1939, this was no longer a conditional threat. It was a firm intention. The agitation of America against Germany was after all an established fact. Whether or not Germany was involved in an open world war, it was fighting a global coalition and would soon face the full flood of lend-lease. Hitler could therefore assert with some confidence: ‘The coming months and year will prove that I prophesied rightly in this case too.’ A few weeks earlier Heydrich had received his first order to prepare for a truly comprehensive solution for the European Jewish problem.2 Jews from all over Europe, from the Reich and from Poland would be sent to their deaths on marshy construction sites in the deso- lated territory of the East stripped bare by the German occupying forces. In March the Wehrmacht and the SS drafted gu