hin reach. On 30 August 1942, 3rd Panzer division seized a bridgehead over the Terek river, the last major natural obstacle en In public, at least, the Third Reich returned to its familiar tone of bravado. In July Hitler moved his headquarters to the Ukraine to be closer to the action and on 23 July he issued Directive No. 45, which announced that ‘in a campaign of little more than three weeks, the broad goals set for the southern flank of the Eastern Front ... have been essentially achieved. Only weak enemy forces... have succeeded in escaping envelopment .. .’110 It again seemed as though the Soviet Union might be on the point of collapse. Given the disappointment of the previous winter and spring, the German public was initially somewhat suspicious.111 However, by the end of July 1942 the Gestapo was reporting a wave of optimism, which Goebbels and Goering did their best to fan into a fever of excitement. The focus was now squarely on the plunder to be had in the Ukraine. And as we have seen, a renewed and ruthless effort was being made to ensure that Germany did actually receive increased food deliveries from the occupied territories. The summer of 1942 was to be the last great season for projects of Eastern settlement and racial empire. Whilst the oil troops laboured in Maikop, Kontinental Oel, Germany’s freshly minted oil major, hatched plans to take control of British oil assets in Egypt.112 In Russia, the Einsatzgruppen were well into the second phase of their ghastly programme of murder. Between 17 and 19 July Heinrich Himmler visited Auschwitz and the General Government to transmit his fateful instructions from Berlin. The shock of December 1941 was fading into the background. Having broken the Red Army and conquered the southern Soviet Union, the Nazi regime would no longer have to face a major threat in the East. It would need only to defend its continental empire against Britain and America. As in the previous year, Hitler even speculated about the poss