of projecting combat power across continents. Without the airmen’s prewar efforts, such offensive capabilities would not have existed and the Americans would have been constrained, as were the Germans and Japanese, to short- and medium-range aircraft de- signed to support ground forces. It was fortuitous for the United States that  6 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  the Air Corps Tactical School had developed a theory for strategic bombing that justified the creation of a large air force necessary to fight a global war.  This introduction traces American strategic bombing theory from its origins in World War I to the thinking of the three great interwar air power theorists—the Italian Giulio Douhet, the Briton Hugh Trenchard, and the American Billy Mitchell—to the founding of the Air Corps Tactical School, the development of the Norden bombsight and B-17 bomber, and the genesis of HADPB theory at the Air Corps Tactical School.  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WORLD WaR I  At the commencement of World War I, all the major powers had small num- bers of light and unarmed airplanes assigned to observation units. As the Western Front ossified, negating the cavalry’s traditional role of probing en- emy defenses, the use of aircraft for obtaining battlefield intelligence proved vital. Airplanes were fitted with cameras for reconnaissance and, soon there- after, wireless radios for artillery spotting. Airmen carried weapons, drop- ping grenades onto enemy positions and firing their guns at enemy aircraft. The utility of air power over the battlefield was obvious to all, as was the necessity of denying the same advantage to the enemy.’  Striving for command of the air spurred the development of purpose- designed pursuit aircraft. As dogfights spiraled above the trenches, the advantage shifted back and forth, with adversaries seeking technological ad- vantages in airframe and engine design and improvements in the lethality of air-to-air weapons.  In addition to air superiority