es. People of the same race are prompted by a fun- damental urge to unite. They desire an autonomous government embracing all the people of their race. If they cannot find political freedom by peaceful means, they will fight for it if they are able to do so.  ‘These desires to find prosperity, security, and racial unity are, of course, an inevitable source of conflict in a world already crowded and jealously ex- ploited. Where national policies cross, a dispute arises. There is, unfortunate- ly, no authoritative World Tribunal for the settlement of such disputes—no impartial court whose decisions can be enforced. Conflict of policies, if suf- ficiently vital, leads to war.  ‘The essence of war is, of course, conflict. It is an attempt to settle a con- flict of policies by a conflict of arms. It breaks out when further endurance of an unsatisfactory peace becomes intolerable—or when acquisition by force seems within reach.  Since war is a conflict, what are the fundamental factors underlying its expression? It is essentially and fundamentally a conflict of wills—the will to obtain is opposed by the will to retain. The will to progress is in conflict with the will to resist that progression.  We said that war is a furtherance of national policy by other means. It is a continuance of an old fight. It is an effort to decide, once and for all, whether the will to progress shall gain the ascendancy over the will to resist. Hence it is, in the ultimate analysis, an effort to overcome the will to resist. Where is that will to resist centered? How is it expressed?  It is centered in the mass of the people. It is expressed through political government. The will to resist, the will to fight, the will to progress, are all ultimately centered in the mass of the people—the civil mass—the people in the street. They represent the mainspring of every national machine. They are literally the heart of every national structure. Ultimately, defeat or vic- tory is determined by the break