ployment of our GHQ Air Force.  We find ourselves located in prepared bases furnished by Russia, just to the north of Vladivostok, and supplied by the Trans-Siberian Railway. Large Japanese and Russian ground forces are in contact along the Amur and Us- suri rivers. The situation is static and neither side has as yet gained any ad- vantage. The Japanese air force is located at bases within Japan proper and at their forward bases in Manchukuo. The Japanese air force is being employed  What to Target 191  to directly assist her ground forces. The location of occupied Japanese air- dromes has been determined and is furnished us by the Russians. Japan is still engaged with China to the south. The Japanese ground and air forces are being supplied by ocean transport across the sea of Japan, convoyed and screened by a portion of the Japanese Navy. The bulk of the navy is screening the Pacific coast of Japan.  ‘The range of our striking force units is such that all of these elements and all of the vital elements of the Japanese homeland are open to our attack. We have a complete freedom of choice as between the following major classes of objectives:  We can employ our striking force to directly assist the Russian ground forces in their effort to overwhelm the Japanese ground forces and drive them south out of Manchukuo. This may be done either by direct employ- ment near the combat zone or by cutting vulnerable lines of communica- tion far to the south. We can employ our striking force in counter-air force action, directly, to eliminate any future threat from the Japanese air force. We can employ our striking force against the transports and their convoying naval forces to prevent the supply and maintenance of any of Japan’s armed forces on the mainland. We can attack the naval bases which are the source of Japan's naval strength. We can reach out with our longer range equipment to the bulk of the Japanese fleet off the coast of Japan. If this attack is success- ful it will