supplies be flown over the Himalayas, a herculean task involving seven flights over the “Hump” to ferry the fuel and bombs for a single B-29 combat sortie. Opera-  220 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  tionally, the distance from its base at Chengdu in south-central China limited the range of the B-29 to Japan's southernmost island of Kyushu.”  Despite all of these formidable challenges, 20th Air Force tried to make good on Roosevelt's promise. On June 15, 1944, the XX Bomber Command launched its first raid with a night attack on the steel works at Kyushu. Forty- seven of the 67 bombers dropped nearly 2,000 bombs, resulting in only a single hit on the complex. This came at the loss of seven aircraft due to pilot error or mechanical failure, while only a single plane fell to enemy flak. Sub- sequent raids throughout the summer were similarly unsuccessful. In late August, an impatient Arnold sent Major General Curtis LeMay to China to wield the combat experience he had gained in Europe in pursuit of better re- sults. LeMay set about improving the training and tactics of the B-29 aircrew, but even he could not overcome the logistical challenges and range limita- tions of conducting operations from China.”  General Arnold’s hopes for the B-29 turned to the Marianas Islands once the US Navy had secured Guam, Tinian, and Saipan in August 1944. Arnold selected Brigadier General Haywood Hansell, his chief of staff, to command XXI Bomber Command, which was deployed from Kansas to the Pacific. As Hansell was a former ACTS faculty member of the Bomber Mafia and key planner for both AWPD-1 and AWPD-42, it was unsurprising that he trained his aircrew on HADPB. On November 24, XXI Bomber Command launched its first mission against Japan, with 111 bombers attacking the Musashino aircraft plant on the outskirts of Tokyo. Results were poor. A mere 24 aircraft located the target, with only 48 of the 1,000 bombs released actually landing within the factory perimeter, inflictin