xpect the initial mental state of a nation at war to be one of confusion, rather than the firm state of morale which may eventually emerge, it may well be possible for air attack direct on the civilian populace to destroy morale before it really comes into existence—provided of course that the air force can strike soon enough and hard enough. The point in doubt here is how hard is hard enough? This we don't know; but we do know that air attacks such as the Japanese have directed against the Chinese cities are not hard enough, for there, the reaction seems to have been to increase the morale of the nation as a whole. Observers seem to be of the opinion that the Japanese air attacks on cities have had the effect of unifying the Chinese people in opposition to the Japanese to a greater extent than any other factor.  It is apparent that if Air Warfare is to succeed in the direct attack against morale, it must create such an abnormal environment that continued sacrifice of the individual for the common good becomes intolerable. It is therefore  Vital and Vulnerable 143  clear that if this attack is launched against the civilian population directly, and it is to succeed, we must overwhelm the population with fear very quick- ly. The adaptability of man is very great and observers have commented upon the fact that in the bombing of Madrid and Barcelona, for example, the popu- lation eventually became accustomed to the attacks to the point that the fear, which they had at first caused, ceased to be apparent.  In general, the direct attack of populations gives temporary effects only and these are not necessarily cumulative. Furthermore, aside from the psy- chological effects on the workers, this attack does not directly injure the war making capacity of the nation. For all of these reasons the School advocates an entirely different method of attack. This method is the attack of the Na- tional Economic Structure.  ‘The School believes that this method of attack is more in kee