5.3.  Table 5.3. Carloads Item Miles of train 800 Fruits and vegetables Th 400 Milk and cream 3% 132 Butter, fish, eggs, and 1% dressed poultry 105 Dressed meats 1 215 Livestock 2 34 Live poultry % 67 Frozen and fresh fish %  This is equal to a train of 1,750 carloads, which at 100 cars to a train for one mile is equal to 17% miles of train per day.  ‘The percentage of perishables moved by motor truck is 21.8%, and with the exception of a small amount of dairy products and some 20% of the fruits and vegetables, all the remainder is carried by rail transportation. New York  172 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  City is peculiar in this respect, as it is more dependent upon rail transporta- tion for its food than any other large city in the United States. This is due to the longer haul required from the point of origin, and the motor truck can- not be used to replace rail transportation. The foodstuffs raised within one hundred miles of New York City, each year constitutes a smaller and smaller source of supply.  Two developments have made possible supplying such a congested area with the enormous quantity of food required. These are the refrigerator car and the cold storage warehouse. In New York City there are twenty-eight large cold storage warehouses with an aggregate cooler and freezer space of 40 million cubic feet. The supplies maintained in these cold storage ware- houses vary, for different items, with the seasons of the year and, for the items checked, range from one day’s supply as a minimum of one item to 47 days’ supply as a maximum for another—which happened to be eggs.  It is apparent that this whole system of feeding this great metropolitan area depends upon the continuance of uninterrupted rail communications into the area. With any interruption, shortages in various items would be- come apparent almost immediately. If the interruption could be maintained for a period of even a week or so, the area would become untenable and the population wo