oordinating more than a very few considerations at one time. This lack of mental capacity is so universal, and so well recog- nized, that military men have raised the desire for simplicity to the exalted position of a “Principle of War.” The chief point to remember is that effective execution demands a simple plan—even though a great amount of compli- cated, tedious, painstaking mental effort on the part of the commander and his staff may be required to produce the most effective simple plan. Too often such mental effort is avoided by the commander and his staff under the guise of simplicity. The Polish solution to the problem of defense against a modern military force was quite simple but certainly disastrous! Hence, we must conclude that simplicity is not an advantage except as it helps to produce the desired end.  Cooperation is essential because of the human incapacity to foresee all contingencies and provide the necessary measures for coordination. We all know that generous, willing, and voluntary cooperation is no problem when morale is high and everyone is driving toward a common purpose. But we  66 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  must not forget that wholehearted cooperation throughout all ranks is es- sential to this end.  In continuing our examination with a view toward progress, we may at times appear to be somewhat critical. However, we want carefully to avoid being destructive—we are critical only to engender the sort of dissatisfaction which is the essential preliminary to progress.  If efficient warfare always had been the rule in the past there would of course be little concern for the future. But we know that this has not been the case—mostly because of the resistance to new weapons and new methods. At least this resistance has been the rule for those who had to be shown—those who lacked the vision and courage necessary to accept a promising theory. These—the conservatives—are always in the majority.  This majority opinion in the military