mutable or perhaps in simpler terms “unchangeable.”  62 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Based on our own regulations and concepts, we must first make sure that we understand a “principle” to be a basic truth upon which many other truths depend and, in the scientific sense, a truth that fits all cases.  However, we must recognize it as an historical fact that soldiers have always sought a mystical “by-path” or a “never-failing” formula which they needed only to follow in blind faith in order to gain the road to victory.  ‘Therefore in our search for basic truths we must be ever mindful that while many of the so-called “Principles” “Maxims,” or “Guides” of the past may have been excellent guides of conduct for Napoleon or either great lead- ers, they are not necessarily so for us. Our problems differ from theirs. The formulae of yesterday cannot be used blindly today.  With this thought in mind let us examine our present accepted “Prin- ciples of War”  The Objective  First, the Principle of the Objective. This principle is closely associated with an important basic factor—“The End Desired.”  But what is the “end desired” in war?  We go to our primary statement of military doctrine as published in the latest Tentative Field Service Regulations—1939, FM 100-5—“‘The ultimate objective of all military operations is the destruction of the enemy’s armed forces by battle”  Let us try to reconcile this with the happenings in the latter part of 1918. We see that although the German army might have been the ultimate objec- tive of the Allied forces it was not defeated by battle. But since Germany was reduced to such a point that the Allies were able to dictate the terms of peace; something other than defeat of the military forces must have happened! We believe it was the collapse of the German nation as a unit and this causes us to score a major error against the Allies for not recognizing the most vulnerable element of that unit—for bending every effort to reduce th