-air attack. In “Tac- tical Offense and Tactical Defense,’ Frederick Hopkins assessed future bomb- er attrition rates by taking an inductive, historical approach. In World War I, only when German defenders concentrated their fighters to British bombers ata ratio of 1.5 to 1 did British loss rates become too great for sustained opera- tions. It was unlikely such ratios could be achieved in the future given the de- fender’s dilemma of having to defend everywhere yet also mass forces against an offensive force that could choose the time and location of attack.  ‘The operational requirements for conducting high-altitude daylight pre- cision bombing are examined in “Practical Bombing Probabilities” (chapter 4). Laurence Kuter reviews the detailed planning required to determine the number of bombers and bombs to assign to a target in order to be reasonably confident of success. For high-altitude operations, the accuracy of the bomb- sight was the key factor in such calculations.  Muir Fairchild took up the critical question as to what to bomb in two lectures, “National Economic Structure” and “New York Industrial Area” (chapter 5). Targeting a relatively small number of vital and vulnerable nodes of an industrialized nation would produce economic and social paralysis, thereby quickly draining the enemy population of the will and means to re- sist. By contrast, Fairchild argued that direct bombing of civilians was not only unethical and diplomatically costly but also less effective than attacking a nation’s infrastructure. The attack of economic targets would exert pressure both on the population's ability to sustain itself and on a country’s capacity to produce the weapons, munitions, and supplies required to wage war.  In the final lecture of the Air Force Course, “Primary Strategic Objec- tives of Air Forces” (chapter 6), Fairchild concluded that the fundamental decision for air warfare was whether to attack an enemy’s national econom- ic structure or its military force