the presence of a strong defense or a mere show of force. It is generally con- ceded, by those who are competent to judge, that an air attack well launched is most difficult to stop. The bursting of antiaircraft shells or the presence of a hostile pursuit force will not prevent a determined bombardment com- mander from accomplishing his mission. To stop a bombardment attack, the bombardment airplanes must be shot out of the sky.  In the final analysis, the most efficacious method of stopping a bombard- ment attack is to destroy the bombardment airplanes before they take to the air. As a bombardment unit will be upon its airdrome at least sixteen out of every twenty-four hours, the best defense would appear to be an offensive against the bombardment airdrome.  98 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  CoMMENTS ON “DRIVING HoME THE BOMBARDMENT ATTACK”  Compared to the other ACTS lectures presented in this book, this piece is the most dated because it was published in 1930, five years before the arrival of the four-engine B-17, a platform that doubled the air speed and combat range Kenneth Walker envisioned in a two-engine heavy bomber. Walker's central argument is that bombers in tight formation would have the advan- tage in both the number and rate of fire of its machine guns. Fighters, even in large formations, would have to break up their formations to prosecute attacks, thus conceding the advantage to the bomber.  Over time, Walker's conviction regarding the offensive nature of air pow- er became a key assumption in ACTS strategic bombing theory and under- pinned the belief that a tightly flown bomber formation could defend itself against any enemy defense. Of all the ACTS faculty, Walker was the most zealous, a prophesier who based his views purely on faith rather than on evidence from previous wars. In his conclusion, he attempted to insulate his claims from criticism by claiming his views were accepted by those “compe- tent to judge.” Though he does not nam