ided the intellectual foundation for the Air Corps Tactical School’s theory of strategic bombing. Fairchild emphasized how peacetime thinking led to the creation of air power. Wilson stressed how the advent of the airplane had changed the means to wage war. Finally, Hansell highlighted how air forces, unlike surface forces, could directly target the ultimate objective of war: the  86 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  will of the enemy population to resist by destroying the vital elements of a nation.  Given this theoretical framework, the next two chapters reveal the ACTS offensive operational construct whereby victory can be achieved by large for- mations of self-defending bombers that penetrate enemy defenses and con- duct high-altitude daylight precision bombing.  The Bomber Always Gets Through  Whereas the previous two chapters considered theoretical questions regard- ing air power in future wars, this chapter addresses the tactical challenge for bomber formations to penetrate enemy air defenses. Two lectures, “Driv- ing Home the Bombardment Attack” and “Tactical Offense and Tactical De- fense,’ offer distinct arguments as to how and why self-defending bomber forces without the protection of dedicated air cover could successfully con- duct deep strikes in enemy territory without suffering debilitating losses.  DrivinG HOME THE BOMBARDMENT ATTACK  Lieutenant Kenneth Walker argues that a well-armed and well-motivated of- fensive bomber force can penetrate and strike its target in the face of enemy defenders and without the aid of air cover.' This article, a summary of the ACTS 1931 bombardment text, discusses the attributes of different flying formations that allow a massed bomber group to defend against enemy in- terceptors and anti-aircraft fire.? Walker acknowledges that, while a bomber formation will likely take casualties, training and the determined will of the commander will propel the bombers to their destination.  Driving Home the Bombardment Att