s of which we are seeking?  We would this morning—if we could—call to our assistance the first leader of the air offensive—Viscount Hugh Trenchard, retired Marshal of the British Air Force, who commanded this Independent Force. We would like in our most polite manner to ask him these questions:  1. What percentage of striking force airplanes evaded German Pursuit?  2. What percentage of bombers which were exposed to the tactical de- fense were shot down in air combat?  3. What percentage of bombers were lost when the ratio of pursuit air- planes to bombers in air combat was one to one—two to one—three to one—four to one?  4. On what percentage of missions were alternate objectives bombed? And why?  It is possible to reconstruct from reports and squadron histories data to answer many of these questions. One squadron leader with tremendous pride in his outfit took time after the war to put into writing the complete story of the exploits of his squadron. Major L. A. Pattinson, commanding the 99th Day Squadron, has left us an invaluable record as source material. Would that there had been more such squadron leaders.  ‘The problem of tactical pursuit employment must for the sake of analysis in this discussion be divided into two phases. First, the bringing of the two forces into air combat; and, second, the actual air combat. The first represents the problems that are involved in pursuit interception. The second involves the numerical superiority of pursuit which is needed to defeat the striking force bombers either by shooting them all down, or by making them aban-  104 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Percent Losses in Bombers  Resulting from Air Combat with varying numbers of  Enemy Pursuit. Number of Combats—27  ‘Organization—99th and 55th Squadron e British Independent Bombing Force  Time—13 March to 5 October 1918  Type Airplanes—DH-9  Average size Formations —9 Airplanes  Percent Bomber Losses é  0 “88-S8S- oe  Ratio Pursuit to Bombers in Air Combat  don