upported by hostile air forces, the maximum contribution of our air forces would be made by employment against the hostile air force as an intermediate objective, since such action would be beyond the powers of our naval surface forces.  An illustration of such a situation is to be found in the step by step pro- gression across the Pacific Ocean toward Japan that has sometimes been proposed, in the event of war with that power without allies on our side. In such operations it is proposed that we advance outward from Hawaii, seizing island after island and utilizing each in turn as a base from which to conduct operations against the next one in order. In this case it is apparent that the objective of our air forces is the same as that of our naval forces—the defeat of the hostile naval forces to permit the step by step advance to continue. It is equally apparent that, if hostile air forces are present and constitute a serious threat, our air forces provide the only means available to oppose that threat and that their maximum contribution would lie in removing the threat be- fore proceeding against the hostile naval forces.  ‘The decisions seem quite obvious in these situations, where the hostile surface forces are selected as the primary objectives of our air forces. In fact they are, in each case, forced upon us by the situation. We have little or no  188 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  choice. The situation itself dictates clearly and unescapably the primary ob- jective of the air forces.  However, when we come to select the enemy national structure, or the hostile air force, as our primary objective, when both these classes of ob- jectives are open to us, the choice is not so clearly indicated and we must consider a great many factors. In fact, it seems apparent that the only basis upon which this decision can logically be made, is upon a thorough national estimate of the situation. In such an estimate we must consider in great detail the relative vulne