he conditions stated above is due to the output rate of airplanes and trained personnel stated plus the fact that a period of about six months would be required by the Germans after winning the war in Europe and before changing to an offensive against the Western Hemisphere. Until those output rates are established, even though an offensive is being waged against Germany, se- curity against any eventuality cannot be guaranteed without an additional force of at least 8 Heavy Bombardment Groups (544 total airplanes less reserve) in the Western Hemisphere. These 8 Groups would constitute a reserve to meet a threat greater than that conveyed by 1 or 2 ships or to “bomb them out” in the event that a small force established a base in the Western Hemisphere. This 8 group general reserve would probably be lo- cated in the United States the greater portion of the time.  3. General. If no offensive is being waged against Germany in Europe, a much larger force than that set up in the foregoing will be essential if the security of the continental United States, each of our possessions and the Western Hemisphere is to be assured against any eventuality.  FORCE REQUIRED TO ACCOMPLISH THE TASK OF STRATEGIC DE- FENSIVE AIR OPERATIONS IN ASIA.  1. Conception. If a shortage of airplanes were not the controlling factor, a satisfactory strategic defensive against Japan could be most effectively accomplished by a vigorous air offensive against the sources of Japan's military and civil strength. Actualities force the modification of that con-  240 Appendix 2  ception to the creation of a striking force designed to deter Japanese ex- pansion and aggression in Asia.  2. Minimum immediate requirements. In addition to the forces set up for the defense of the Philippines and Alaska, it will be necessary to add 2 Heavy Bombardment Groups (136 total airplanes less reserve) and 1 Pur- suit Group (130 airplanes less reserve) to the air garrison of the Philippine Department to attack or to threate