ies.  (iii) the destruction of those aircraft repair depots and storage parks within range, and on which the enemy fighter force is largely dependent.  Pointblank Directive 269  (iv) the destruction of enemy fighters in the air and on the ground.  ‘The list of targets appropriate to these special tasks is in Appendix ‘A’ for- warded under cover of Air Ministry letter $.46368/3/D.B.Ops. dated 4th June, 1943. Further copies of this list, which will be amended from time to time as necessary, will be forwarded in due course.  8. Consistent with the needs of the air defence of the United Kingdom the forces of the British Fighter Command will be employed to further this gen- eral offensive by: (i) the attack of enemy aircraft in the air and on the ground. (ii) the provision of support necessary to pass bomber forces through the enemy defensive system with the minimum cost.  9. American fighter forces will be employed in accordance with the instruc- tions of the Commanding General, Eighth Air Force in furtherance of the bomber offensive and in co-operation with the forces of Fighter Command.  10. The allocation of targets and the effective co-ordination of the forces in- volved is to be ensured by frequent consultation between the Command- ers concerned. To assist this co-ordination a combined operational planning committee has been set up. The suggested terms of reference under which this Committee is to operate is outlined in Air Ministry letter CS.1936/ A.C.A.S.(Ops) dated 10th June, 1943.  11. It is emphasized that the reduction of the German fighter force is of pri- mary importance; any delay in its prosecution will make the task progres- sively more difficult. At the same time it is necessary to direct the maximum effort against the submarine construction yards and operating bases when tactical and weather conditions preclude attacks upon objectives associated with the German Fighter Force. The list of these targets is in Appendix ‘B’ forwarded with the Appendix ‘A r