inst Japan.  4. Description of air operations.  a. AIR OFFENSIVE AGAINST GERMANY.  The air offensive against Germany is a combined effort by the U.S. Army Air Force and the R.A.F. The U.S. Army Air Force will con- centrate its efforts upon the systematic destruction of selected vital elements of the German military and industrial machine through precision bombing in daylight. The R.A.F. will concentrate upon mass air attacks of industrial areas at night, to break down morale. In view of the acute shortage of skilled labor in Germany this effort of the R.A. should have a pronounced effect upon production.  Systems of objectives to be destroyed and priorities are as follows: First Priority: Destruction of the German Air Force.  Targets: 11 fighter factories; 15 bomber factories; 17 airplane en- gine plants.  Destruction: Complete—with repeated attacks at two month intervals.  Results: Almost complete destruction of the sources of German air power, with consequent depletion of the German air force through combat attrition caused by these—and other—bomb- ing raids.  Bomber force: 22,374 bomber sorties.  Bombs: 44,748 tons (100 times the tonnage dropped on Renault)  Second Priority: Submarine building yards.  Targets: 20 building yards.  Destruction: Complete—one attack each.  Results: Germany’s submarine shipbuilding program completely disrupted. This offensive cure to the submarine menace, at its source, is the only conclusive solution. Other types of anti- submarine operations are defensive and inconclusive.  Bomber force: 10,332 bomber sorties.  258 Appendix 3  Bombs: 20,664 tons.  Third Priority: Transportation  Targets: 38 (locomotive building shops; locomotive repair shops; marshaling yards; inland waterways).  Destruction: Partial.  Results: Breakdown of a vital link in the German military and industrial structure—one which is at present taxed to its maxi- mum capacity and has become very sensitive to disruption.  Bomber force: 9,348 sorties.  Bombs: 18,696 tons.