ng the war between Austria and Prussia in 1866, a German staff offi- cer, Verdy Du Vernois, found himself confronted with a difficult situation.'* He was a great student of military history and was familiar with the cam- paigns of all the great captains. Seeking to find a solution to his difficulties, he repaired to his tent and reflected upon the military operations of those illustrious leaders. Nowhere could he recall a situation—and its attendant solution—which seemed analogous to his present predicament. Returning to his associates, in disgust, he remarked, “To the devil with history and tradi- tion; what is the problem?”  Gentlemen, we find ourselves today in a very similar predicament. We are approaching a study of the strategy of air warfare. Before we can arrive at an intelligent solution we must know the conditions of the problem.  74 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Regardless of how familiar we may be with the methods and operations of great military leaders, we must understand our peculiar problem before we can derive the benefits of past experiences. If we are to profit by the military strategy of the past, then we must do so in light of conditions of the present.  Strategy has been defined as “the art of the general” (and that is, in fact, its literal meaning in its Greek derivative), and again, by General Von Molke as “the art of applying the means placed at a general's disposal to the attain- ment of the object in view.”  Those great military leaders, whose victories have been recorded in his- tory, have been true artists in the sense of the latter definition. They have taken the means at hand and applied them in the most efficacious manner toward the achievement of the end desired. In many instances, the methods employed were, at the time of their employment, unorthodox and radical. However, two factors constituted the basic foundation which elevated those leaders from the ranks of skillful artisans into the select fold of great artists. F