sible to establish a pursuit defense of a single locality that might prove highly efficient against an enemy striking force of about this size. Of course, if the enemy striking force increases in size, the problem becomes more staggering. Grant that the maintenance of 1,500 pur- suit airplanes for defense against 1,000 bombers in the ground alert zone is  The Bomber Always Gets Through 113  quite feasible, reasonable, and economical, it is when we have more than one place to defend that we run into trouble. Because of the high speed of striking forces there is a limited distance to the front and side to which ground alert and air alert pursuit forces can make interception.  The same 100 bombing airplanes, that we initially assumed, might pre- sumably attack any of, say, five cities. Hence under the best circumstances in which our vital elements are far enough behind our frontiers to permit us to use the ground alert method, and assuming that it is possible to use great numbers of pursuit planes in combat which it is not, especially at night, it would be necessary to provide 750 pursuit airplanes and 1,500 crews in order to gain the necessary 1.5 to 1 superiority in combat against the origi- nal 100 enemy bombers to protect these five cities. If those enemy bombers were 1,000 in number it would require ten times as many to meet those same conditions. This type of reasoning is, of course “reduction ad absurdum.” But the general inference cannot be escaped. It may be feasible and economical to establish a defense of a particular locality that will effectively limit repeated air attacks. However, if the things to be defended are not concentrated, but rather widely separated, then it is not feasible or economical to provide that kind of a defense. Since this latter seems to be the usual case, we can but con- clude that to provide pursuit defenses on a broad scale that are capable of guar- anteeing a defense which will make enemy air offensive operations unprofitable is n