r us. This decision, then, whether we will choose the enemy national structure or the attack of the hostile armed forces as our primary strategic objective, is a matter of very considerable mo- ment. If we decide to attack the enemy national structure directly, neglecting the enemy armed forces as an objective, we may open up our own nation to the same sort of an offensive. You will certainly have become convinced by your studies at the school, if you were not already certain of the point, that the only method known at present by which we may obtain relative security from air attack for our own nation, as well as for our armed forces, lies in di- recting an air offensive against the hostile air force. Thus we may under some circumstances be forced into a decision accepting, as an intermediate objec- tive, the attack of the enemy air force, or perhaps his other armed forces.  It would certainly be fine if there were some simple rule that could be quoted which would cover the matter of how this decision is to be made. Life would certainly be much simpler if the conduct of war could be formulated    184 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  under a set of rules. But unfortunately that is not true, and probably never will be true. In this case as in most of the other major decisions of war—it depends on the situation. In fact, the whole art of air strategy consists in prop- erly evaluating all the factors of the situation and deciding against what hostile objectives our air offensive should be directed to so exploit the peculiar pow- ers of the air force as to secure its maximum contribution to the national aim.  Since it is impossible to establish a rule applicable to all situations, let us examine some of the important factors that must be taken into account in arriving at this decision.  ‘The point in question is whether, in the final analysis, the more certain path to victory, even though somewhat longer and more difficult, does not lead through the defeat of t