sents a reduction in Probable Error of 87.2 percent.”  Another and more comprehensive statement may be made of the re- lationship of current bombing accuracy with former bombing accuracy: “Bombing errors at 5,000 feet, with the Mk. I bomb sight, at high speeds, in the B-10 airplane, are about the same as they were with the D-4 bomb sight in the Keystone airplane.” At 8,000 feet our errors are actually less than one- half the former efforts; at 12,000 feet, at high speed, we are actually obtaining errors only % as great as those we estimated we would obtain with the D-4 bomb sight in the slow Keystone, if we could have bombed at that altitude. ‘The past history of the Air Corps bombing is obviously a sorry one. The past history of Air Corps interest in its ability to bomb is still sorrier. This may be due to a certain extent to lack of incentive or lack of instruction from higher Army authorities who did have general data on exterior ballistics. The first interest shown by the United States Army, outside the Air Corps, is dated May 7, 1938. It consists of a student study from the Air War College. The title of the study is “The Recording” by Lt. Colonel H. R. Harmon, who was, of course, Air Corps.  We will devote the remainder of this discussion to process of obtaining reliable bombing data and the progress of that project.  A new TR 440-40 is now in effect. The first bombing seasons under the provisions of that regulation have been completed. The results of this bomb- ing have been received and are being studied and analyzed. That bombing avoids the old, unsatisfactory, “down the groove” method of approach to bombing as follows: The bombardier approaches the target from some car- dinal point, passes, say south, drops one bomb, turns; approaches from the east, drops one bomb, turns; approaches from the north, drops one bomb, turns; approaches from the west and drops his fourth bomb. That completes  126 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  his bombing at that alt