onduct precision strikes and developing a method for determining the bombing requirements for an air campaign against Germany and Japan. In the next chapter, Fairchild concludes the Air Force course by considering the critical decision as to whether to attack the enemy’s military or its economy.  What to Target  The Economy or Military Forces?  PRIMARY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OF AIR FORCES  In the final lecture of the Air Force course, “Primary Strategic Objectives of Air Forces,’ Muir Fairchild concludes that the fundamental decision for air warfare is whether to attack an enemy’s national economic structure or its military forces. He observes that attacking the economic structure is a purely offensive action, while attacking enemy forces has both offensive and defen- sive objectives. Which objective to pursue depends as much on the vulner- ability of one’s own nation as it does on that of the opponent. The nation least vulnerable to attack should select the enemy’s national structure as its prima- ry target. An additional advantage in attacking the national economic struc- ture is that intelligence on fixed, nonmilitary targets is available in advance during peacetime, unlike the intelligence required to identify mobile military forces under wartime conditions, making target selection much easier.  Alternatively, for continental nations whose primary concern is the threat of invasion, the proper objective should be an attack on the enemy's military forces. Fairchild refers back to the threat to France from the Ger- man breakout along the Western Front in early 1918. It would have done little good to be bombing factories while German soldiers marched through Paris. Likewise, for a revisionist state such as Germany, which counted on victory through conquest, its air force would also be best employed against the forces of its enemy. Fairchild presciently argues that, for cases in which an air force cannot reach an enemy’s national structure, as with the United States ag