be the usual case, we can but con- clude that to provide pursuit defenses on a broad scale that are capable of guar- anteeing a defense which will make enemy air offensive operations unprofitable is not feasible.  If we examine the wars since the World War, are there lessons which may modify these views? Certainly there is little to learn from the Italian- Ethiopian conflict insofar as air fighting is concerned.  In China, it is the consensus of opinion of military observers that the air operations of both the Japanese and the Chinese are far below the standards of the occidental powers. Compact formations have not been used by the Japanese bombing formations although it is thought that the theory of mutu- ally supporting fires is taught at the Mannatsui Bombing School. Japanese night navigation has been excellent. The reports of the results of normal air combat between Japanese bombardment and Chinese pursuit, while the lat- ter existed, vary considerably. Japanese bombers with blind angles about the tail—those with large twin rudders seem to have suffered severely. A report of the Chinese aircraft interception net established in the early days of the war was received from a former instructor of the school here as follows: “The net was organized shortly after my arrival in China, May 31, and naturally  114 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  there was not time to train personnel properly or to test the net. In the first days of the war, the following message was received from one of the stations: “There is a loud noise passing overhead going in your direction.”  Most of the operations in China seem to be on this sort of standard.  As for Spain, we have demanded some first hand information of the war from Captain Griffiss in a coming conference which we are looking forward to with a great deal of interest.’ During the last summer of the war, aircraft of superior performance were used by both the Insurgent and Government forces. The superior pursuit armament o