y landings in June.*  Though it was USAAF fighters that inflicted the deathblow on the Luft- waffe, it would be a mistake to consider Eighth Air Force bombers immate- rial to the attainment of air superiority for the Allies. Prior efforts by the RAF to lure the Luftwaffe into the skies against similarly unfavorable odds had failed, as witnessed by the “Circus” daylight raids over northern France in 1940-1941. The difference in 1944 was that Eighth Air Force had the capabil- ity to penetrate deep and strike at the heart of Germany in the daylight. Con- sequently, these raids compelled Luftwaffe fighter pilots into the sky, under unfavorable odds, to fight and die.  As a result of US raids on Germany, by June 6, 1944, the skies over the beaches of Normandy were clear and, while Allied forces faced many chal- lenges conducting their amphibious landings, enemy air attack was not one of them. Because the USAAF had the foresight to generate a daylight long- range bombing capability, and the later flexibility to add long-range fighters,  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombing in World War II 211  North American P-51 Mustang formation, circa 1944.  the United States was able to gain air superiority, a prerequisite to the inva- sion of western Europe.  HADPB and German Synthetic Fuel Production  During the summer of 1944 HADPB strangled German synthetic fuel pro- duction, the lifeblood for the German Army and Air Force.* Precise daylight strikes were required to achieve the accuracy and bomb density necessary to disrupt the petroleum plants. The Germans concentrated roughly half of their synthetic oil production at four sites, and on two clear days in May 1944, Eighth Air Force successfully struck these and five other facilities. Fol- low-up HADPB raids throughout the summer markedly reduced German finished oil production by 42.6 percent. The loss of high-grade fuel produc- tion severely restricted Luftwaffe operations and delayed a German counter- offensive. The return of