vious.  What of food supply?  All the perishables of New York are stored in cold storage warehouses operated by electricity. We might expect wholesale spoilage of food and in- ability to maintain an adequate supply on hand. All the bread of New York City is made in modern electric ovens. One load in every six baked in the United States would not be baked without electricity in New York.  What of the water supply?  You will recall that both the Croton water supply and the Long Island supply have to be distributed by pumping. This pumping is of course done by electricity. At one stroke then the distribution of one-half the water supply of New York City is rendered impossible with all that this entails.  And what of the fire hazard?  ‘The high pressure fire systems, upon which reliance is placed in the con- gested areas, would be inoperative without electric power.  And what about the manufacturing industry?  Vital and Vulnerable 177  270,000 electric motors, representing nearly 65% of all the horse-power used in manufacturing in the New York industrial area, would stop.  There would be no street lights, no electric lights in the home, no cook- ing on electric ranges, no household appliances. People would not know what had happened. There would be no newspapers. The congestion of vehicular traffic would make it impossible to move. Even if the news were broadcast, people would be unable to receive it for radios would be dead.  At one stroke, the industry, the home, the entire machine that we know as New York City, could not function. Certainly the bulk of it would have to be evacuated. At least until numbers were reduced back to those of the horse car and ox team era of the old days.  Remember that New York was built because of transportation. Modern transportation facilities alone make its continuation possible. If these are taken away it will no longer be possible for a city like New York to exist.  I think our analysis has been carried far enough to illustrate how we