r one fixed point of foreign policy? What of British and French interests in Central and Eastern Europe? These were turned over to Hitler that he might construct a Mittel- Europa on a basis of German ascendency extending to the western threshold of the Soviet Union. And what of the solemn treaty obligations of that Soviet Union to uphold Czechoslovakia as a buffer against that very threat from the West? Indeed, what of the precedent to be established as to the sanctity of international contracts—not alone as moral obligations, but as the very foun- dation of international law and future international relations? No one could believe for a moment that these sacrifices, great as they were, would satisfy Hitler for long in spite of his statements. He had previously assured the World and especially Czechoslovakia, only a few months before as he was gobbling up Austria, that he had no further designs on other peoples in Europe!  No, here was something even more than “peace by fear.” It was the sort of peace that demanded sacrifices such as could formerly only be imposed upon a defeated and vanquished people in whom hope was dead.  But why should this be? Russia possessed the largest army in the world with 1,300,000 men under arms, and France alone had three times as many trained reserves as Germany. Even little Czechoslovakia could put 35 divi- sions in the field against Germany’s 140, and the few passes in the Sudeten Mountains had been rendered all but impregnable by her extensive fortifi- cations which were only exceeded by the tremendous defenses of France's famed Maginot Line.  On the sea the disparity was as great. Great Britain's mighty fleet, even without the help of France, not only offered complete protection but domi- nated the naval situation as completely as the most timorous could desire.  With such an estimate of the situation at hand, how can we account for the fact that the British and French prime ministers were almost mobbed by cheering crowds in the st