omb, turns; approaches from the north, drops one bomb, turns; approaches from the west and drops his fourth bomb. That completes  126 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  his bombing at that altitude. There, instead of disregarding sighting shots, we have nothing but sighting shots. Those may be considered approaching the tactical situation, at least from the consideration that one sighting operation only is performed, one bomb only is dropped under an identical condition of altitude and direction of approach. These Training Regulations will also avoid the selection of only two comfortable altitudes within probable effec- tive antiaircraft artillery altitudes in the following manner. The four direc- tions of approach at one altitude that we have just discussed will be at 4,000 feet. The bomber will then climb 4,000 feet, repeat those four approaches at 8,000 feet, then repeat the approaches at 12,000 feet and at 16,000 feet and so forth to the service ceiling of the current type bombardment airplane.  The maximum altitude is not arbitrarily set at some figure that the next model airplane may not look upon as extreme, but the maximum altitude is listed simply as the service ceiling of the current bombardment type airplane. After this Training Regulation has been in effect for some time it is evident that we will have accurate data on bombing, under conditions both of alti- tude and direction of approach very similar to those that may be encoun- tered in actual service. The most recent Training Directive from the GHQ Air Force expands the instructions contained in this Training Regulation. The GHQ Directive calls for considerable formation bombing, night bomb- ing, bombing in bad weather, bombing in conditions of poor visibility and at the conclusion of long missions. It is apparent that we will have truly valuable data after a great number of bombs have been dropped. A most important point which has not been overlooked by this Training Regulation and GHQ Air Fo