ree of these factors of production would later be identified by the United States Strategic Bombing Survey after World War II as key vulnerabilities in the Nazi German economy.’  Fairchild, in “New York Industrial Area,’ provided a blueprint for how to identify the vital and vulnerable economic nodes of a great city. Though his assessment was not intended to be comprehensive, he examined three systems in some detail: water supply, transportation, and electric power. With the exception of a comment on the potential need to reattack aque- ducts, Fairchild largely ignored the question as to the likely resilience of an  Vital and Vulnerable 179  enemy’s wartime economy and the impact this might have on the operational requirements to continually revisit targets.  Together, these two lectures captured the core, foundational idea of the ACTS theory of strategic bombing: that the high-altitude daylight precision bombing of vital and vulnerable nodes of a modern nation would produce economic paralysis. Analysis after World War II would show that Fairchild was largely correct to emphasize attacks on transportation and power net- works. Where he was wrong proved to be in errors of omission rather than commission. He ignored the potential resilience of a nation’s wartime indus- trial production and did not consider how economic paralysis would lead to the desired political outcome. This missing link in the ACTS theory of victory would be revealed later in World War II when the collapse of the German and Japanese economies failed to prompt the surrender of either the Nazi regime or the Japanese Empire.  Despite this major shortcoming, the Air Corps had gone far beyond merely theorizing about strategic bombing to producing the B-17, mounted with the Norden bombsight, as a means to conduct precision strikes and developing a method for determining the bombing requirements for an air campaign against Germany and Japan. In the next chapter, Fairchild concludes the Air Force course b