ak down, it did not produce the decisive results ACTS theorists had expected. The Nazi regime maintained strict control over the population and, even when faced with eco- nomic ruin, the Germans continued to fight to the end, unwilling to accede to unconditional surrender. Not until its army had been defeated and when the nation was faced with occupation by the Soviet Red Army did what was left of the Nazi regime finally agree to peace in May 1945.  Though US airmen fell short of independently achieving decisive victo- ry, this did not mean that HADPB was inconsequential to the war's outcome. First, HADPB provided the prewar rationale to construct the thousands of B-17, B-24, and B-29 heavy bombers that offered the United States the of- fensive capability to conduct air campaigns against Germany and Japan. Fur- ther, offensive daylight air operations by Eighth Air Force in early 1944 were key to the USAAF gaining air superiority over western Europe, a prerequisite  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombing in World War II 197  for Operation Overlord, the invasion of western Europe. Bomber formations protected by long-range escorts forced the Luftwaffe into the sky against great odds to fight and die to protect the Fatherland. Though command of the air would continue to be contested throughout 1944, by June, USAAF fight- ers had cleared the skies above the beaches of Normandy. Eighth Air Force bombers further contributed to the successful effort to interdict German re- inforcements. Finally, HADPB raids against German petroleum production facilities starved the German war machine of fuel such that, by December 1944, the German Army no longer had the means to maintain its desperate counteroffensive at the Battle of the Bulge.  Air power did prove critical to the Allied victory, though it did not do so in the independent and decisive way envisioned by ACTS. Air power was a key component of a combined arms strategy. This chapter examines the role American strategic bombi