f ACTS that a well-armed for- mation of unescorted bombers could conduct long-range operations at an acceptable loss rate.  ‘The bloody air war over Germany dispelled another belief of the strate- gic bombing advocates: that air power had obviated the need for attritional battle. As the Combined Bomber Offensive continued and losses mounted, it became obvious that the bloody trench warfare of World War I had sim- ply been elevated into the sky. As with surface forces, air forces had to first achieve the intermediate objective of defeating enemy forces before direct pressure could be placed upon the enemy nation. As it turned out, strategic bombing did not end wars quickly with fewer overall casualties, as the pro- ponents of strategic bombing had promised.“  Another implicit assumption by ACTS that proved untenable was the feasibility of conducting a high-altitude daylight precision bombing cam- paign against Germany. In practice, Eighth Air Force could not achieve pin-  B-17F inverted over Germany after losing right wing, circa 1943.  B-17 formation dropping bombs through clouds over Germany in 1945. (National Archives)  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombing in World War II 207  point accuracy due to German defenses and the weather. The threat from enemy fighters forced Eighth Air Force to abandon the tactic of having each bombardier calculate the bomb release point for his own aircraft. Instead, in order to maintain a tight defensive formation, only the lead bombardier cal- culated the bomb release point and the other bombardiers dropped on com- mand. This tactical innovation to reduce the vulnerability of the bombers to enemy fighters diminished bombing accuracy by one-third. Other German defensive measures such as concentrating anti-aircraft fire around key targets forced bombers to fly at higher altitude, a maneuver that further decreased the accuracy of the Norden bombsight. Passive defensive measures employ- ing decoys, camouflage, and smoke screens furthe