ion which, among other things, goes into action rapidly and delivers fast accurate fire. When the average Air Corps officer refers to a good Bombardment Squadron, he too frequently refers to an organization which can fly big airplanes in a precise review formation. We have excellent Train- ing Regulations and well prepared training directives. We know that all of the official publications under the sun can never build expert bombardiers in any unit unless there is an interest in accurate bombing.  We have devoted four conferences to bombing accuracy as represent- ed by probable errors which determine the capabilities of Bombardment Aviation.  Today’s assignment indicates that our conception of the employment of bombing errors by the bombardment commander is a miniature of some of the Air Corps Board's plan. You may have felt that we were advocating ex- tensive paper work in statistics. In this case we do not hesitate to affirm that we are advocating extensive computations. We feel that the bombardment squadron armament officer and his reserve assistant or two may actually be given an interesting, important and profitable job. The armament officer may be transposed from a fifth wheel on the flying line to an important statistical aid to the bombardment S-3. Today's assignment is believed to be sufficiently complete to stand without elaboration.  We do not expect the bombardment commander to ever determine the single-shot probability of any single target. We do expect that he will insist on having the most accurate means of determining how large a force he must employ in order to attain a reasonable chance of success. He will, therefore, demand that the probable errors of teams, flights, squadrons and groups be accurately determined. He may well have some staff officer or perhaps a mathematically inclined corporal take an objective folder and the latest prob- ability data and compute the probable chance of success of an airplane, flight,  138 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS