d lead to desirable politi- cal outcomes.  THE AIM IN WAR  Captain Haywood Hansell’s lecture “The Aim in War” expands upon Wil- son's discussion on ends, ways, and means by specifying that war is a means by which a nation can secure its national interests of prosperity, security, and racial unity (in the case of Nazi Germany). The objective of war is to over- come the adversary’s will, a force that resides with the people. He argues that the population is the enemy’s center of gravity, regardless of the type of gov- ernment, whether democratic or authoritarian. As evidence, Hansell points to how World War I ended with the German Army undefeated and deployed on foreign soil, while the German monarchy was defeated back home once the people lost their will to fight.  Hansell further contends that a nation must also have the means to con- tinue fighting, and that means and will are interrelated: a nation that loses the means of waging war quickly loses its will to do so and vice versa. In the past, to break the people’s morale meant occupying, or threatening to occupy, their territory. To prevent such an outcome, nations raised armies and navies for defense. The defeat of these armed forces, that is, the means to continue war, is thus an intermediate objective to occupation. Hansell concludes that, though the desired end of war—the breakdown of the enemy's will—has not changed, the means to achieve that aim has changed now with the arrival of the airplane. Air forces, unlike surface forces, do not have to first defeat enemy armies or occupy territory. Such obstacles can be circumvented for an immediate and direct attack on the will of the enemy population.  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 73  Haywood Hansell, circa 1931.  The Aim in War Haywood Hansell September 9, 1936  During the war between Austria and Prussia in 1866, a German staff offi- cer, Verdy Du Vernois, found himself confronted with a difficult situation.'* He was a great student of military history and was fa