e would not be sufficient suitable sidings at which the 17% miles of cars could be unloaded. It is not too much to say that the entire marketing, transportation and food storage systems in New York City depend upon the continued and uninterrupted use of the rail terminals.  We haven't the time to go into an analysis of what could be required in the way of air attack to cut the railroads off from the use of these terminals. However, just a glance at this small map we have here shows some nicely concentrated vulnerable objectives where the railroads pass over the wide tidal rivers on bridges. I think it is fairly safe to assume that this task would probably lie within the capacity of quite a reasonably sized striking force. If an adequate analysis should confirm this conclusion, it is apparent that New York City could quite easily be eliminated by an air offensive directed against this particular element.  Now, no doubt, careful study and analysis of the great city of New York would indicate many other vital elements that might be worthy of our atten- tion. However, our time is growing short, and we will, therefore, consider as a final vital point, an element which our prior discussion indicates may well be decisive—electric power.  Greater New York City has two distinct power systems, between which there is no inter-connection whatever. One lies on the Jersey side of the Hud- son and the other on the New York side. Now the Jersey system, including Staten Island, has a total of eleven steam generating plants. However, the bulk of the generating capacity is concentrated in the three plants of the New Jersey Public Service Corporation on the salt meadows near Newark. These three plants develop over 75% of all power generated on the New Jersey side of the river, where most of the heavy manufacturing industry of the New York district is located. An inter-connection is maintained between these plants and the Pennsylvania Railroad for stand-by services only.  On the New Yor