ld be very great. While the two high pressure fire sys- tems have an auxiliary salt water supply, these cover only the congested areas of lower Manhattan and Brooklyn. Sixty-six fires a day ordinarily occur in New York, which are controlled with only an average loss of $707.00—due entirely to the adequate water supply. Denied an adequate supply of water for fire fighting, the fire risk would be very great and considerable portions of the city would probably be destroyed.  It has been estimated that repair to the aqueducts could be effected in about one week, unless the damage was extensive. Therefore, in order to as-  Vital and Vulnerable 171  sure evacuation of the area, it would be necessary to cut the aqueducts again or to prevent repairs through chemicalization. It is apparent that if opera- tions could be sustained, this method of attack on the city could force its al- most complete evacuation with all that that would imply—not only to the city itself but to the nation. Even cutting them once would certainly deal the area a serious blow.  ‘There is another very vital element of any great city and that is, its supply of foodstuffs. A century ago all of the perishable foodstuffs that were con- sumed in New York City were grown within a fifty-mile radius and were largely transported to the markets by the farmers who raised them. Let us see how far we have come from that condition with the continued growth of this metropolitan center.  ‘The daily food of one-tenth of the people of the United States now de- pends upon the efficiency of the New York food distributing system. This metropolitan area alone consumes yearly about 8% to 9 billion pounds of all foodstuffs. Let us see what this means in terms of average daily receipts of perishable foods in 1934, shown in table 5.3.  Table 5.3. Carloads Item Miles of train 800 Fruits and vegetables Th 400 Milk and cream 3% 132 Butter, fish, eggs, and 1% dressed poultry 105 Dressed meats 1 215 Livestock 2 34 Live poultry % 67