or Muir S. Fairchild April 6, 1939  Gentlemen, the conference this morning is in the nature of an extension of yesterday's discussion.° You will recall that yesterday we made a very sketchy and hasty analysis of the vulnerability to a planned air offensive of the indus- trial and economic structure of the United States. Our purpose in making this analysis was to find out how we could best go about the direct attack of a great industrial nation. We used the United States as an example. Of course it is obvious from the examination we made of our economic structure, that the United States is hardly to be considered a typical great nation. In fact, each nation differs from all other nations, not only in its degree of vulnerability to air attack, but also in the kind of vulnerability; that is to say, in the elements of its national structure that are most vulnerable to this sort of an attack. One nation is weak and vulnerable in one respect and strong in another—while the exact opposite may be true of its neighbor.  Now we have tried to show that mere indiscriminate attack of a nation is definitely not the answer. There is certainly considerable doubt that any virile  Vital and Vulnerable 165  nation can be defeated by any such unplanned, indiscriminate air offensive, if it is engaged in a war in which its people have a vital interest. We conclude, then, that it is essential to analyze our particular prospective enemy in each case—arrive at a true and exact estimate of its vulnerability, and then con- centrate our attack on those vulnerable elements whose destruction will have the greatest cumulative effect in two respects. First, on the morale of the civil populace, by applying pressure to them through the dislocation of their mode of living and by making life under war conditions more intolerable to them than the acceptance of our terms of peace. Second, but not less important, by destroying their capacity to make war, which, of course, not only aids in achieving the f