rvive. Unable to defend or feed itself, the enemy population would soon lose the will to resist. Chapter 7 assesses how well this theory of HADPB held up to the reality of combat by examin- ing US air war planning in World War II and evaluating American strategic bombing effectiveness.  Air Power and War  AN INQUIRY INTO THE SUBJECT “WAR”  Major Harold George, the leading intellect of the ACTS bomber cadre, com- menced the Air Force Course in 1936 with “An Inquiry into the Subject “War,” in which he introduces the controversial topic of whether air forces can win wars independently.’ He considers whether the advent of the airplane has changed the very nature of war or simply added a new weapon to the arsenal. Nations once fought with only armies and navies, where victory over the en- emy’s forces was a necessary intermediate objective, an obstacle, the removal of which was required to overcome the enemy’s will to resist.’ George points out that modern civilization has made it advantageous to change how wars are waged. He argues that an industrial state is internally linked by a series of economic nodes vulnerable to disruption and concludes that air power can now attack the heart of a nation without it being necessary to first fight a war of attrition. In future wars, the air phase will be decisive.  An Inquiry into the Subject “War” Major Harold George, Director, Department of Air Tactics and Strategy 1936  We now begin a phase of study which should give at least an introduction to air power and the strategy of the employment of air forces.’ So far in our search for knowledge we have not been required to start with a fundamental principle or concept and then, by a process of reasoning and logic, deduce conclusions which, although not yet supported by actual proof, appear to  34 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Harold George, 1933.  be reasonable, practicable, and logical. To date, your air instruction has been centered around subjects with which you alrea