l power used in all industrial manufac- turing processes throughout the United States is furnished by central public service electric companies.  Many establishments of the primary industries engaging in the initial production of basic commodities, such as metal billets, for example, have their own independent power facilities. However, the present trend for all processing, finishing and assembling plants is to use central commercial power. Furthermore, any additional power required for industry in an emer- gency must be supplied by the commercial power industry, since there will be no time to construct new power plants.  Now the United States is the greatest producer and consumer of electric power in the world.  [Here the lecturer refers to a Federal Power Commission map, now lost.]  ‘This map of the Federal Power Commission, showing all the important existing facilities as of 1935, vividly demonstrates the importance of electric power to our industry. The size of the power plants is indicated by the size of the circles and squares. The importance of the transmission lines by the width of the red lines on the map. It certainly would appear from the appar- ent congestion of plants and transmission lines that there was no prospect of a shortage in power in this country; and that it is so wide-spread as to com- pare with the petroleum industry in point of vulnerability. However, let us go into this matter a little further. I quote from the Interim Report on the Na- tional Power Survey, published in 1935, by the Federal Power Commission:  Very little new generating capacity has been constructed by the pri- vately owned utilities since 1930. As a result the capacity of existing plants is 2,325,000 kilowatts less than the demand that will exist for power upon a resumption of pre-depression industrial activity, as- suming maintenance of normal reserve capacity. The critical short- age of existing generating capacity most seriously affects the great industrial districts of