e able to maintain the constant flow of sup- plies and replacements, if that force is to be able to act. It is plain that a nation must possess a highly organized and smoothly functioning economic system to carry on war in the modern way. The capacity to wage modern war is defi- nitely fixed by the capacity of the national economic structure to provide the raw materials and convert these materials into the sinews of war.  ‘This basic fact was thoroughly impressed upon all belligerent nations in the World War. As a result of the disastrous lessons that we learned from our own industrial effort in that struggle, our War Department places the great- est stress upon the fundamental importance of the economic effort for future war. To that end we have established a complete planning agency in the Of- fice of the Assistant Secretary of War which is constantly engaged in the full time job of planning our industrial war effort, to the end that our whole eco- nomic and industrial system can be thrown into high gear and placed under the most extreme pressure, immediately upon the outbreak of hostilities.  Vital and Vulnerable 145  In spite of the fact that the United States is the greatest industrial nation in the world, and in spite of the fact that every effort was made to get our great industrial machine to work smoothly and efficiently in the World War, our record in that respect is not too happy. It was found that the capacity of our industries, which is frequently taxed during normal times to supply the peacetime demands, was seriously strained when it was required to take on the additional demands of the military forces. It had to speed up to the limit to keep pace with the enormous demands made upon it. In this mere process of speeding up, all sorts of dislocations occurred. This economic disarrange- ment brought about, among other things, rapidly rising prices, food and fuel shortages, transportation congestion, labor unrest, and suffering and weak- ened morale among