prevent the accomplishment of this purpose and request that our air force be employed to directly assist them to hold back the Japanese. What is the decision to be in this case?  Or, let us take a somewhat similar change in the situation, so that the Japanese air force, having discovered our bases, is being employed effectively against our air force. Our losses are mounting. It is apparent that we cannot accomplish our purpose before the capacity of our force will be reduced too far to permit us to succeed. What is the decision here?  It seems clear from our discussion this morning that, under such cir- cumstances, we must postpone our attack of our selected primary objective and under the Principle of Security (not under the Principle of the Objec- tive) turn our attention to the elimination of these major threats. Once they are eliminated, or sufficiently reduced in importance, however, certainly we would once more take up the direct attack of our primary strategic objec- tive—the National Structure of the Enemy Nation. Under such a general situ- ation as has been pictured, such employment of our air force would surely constitute the maximum possible contribution of which it is capable, toward the achievement of our national aim in war.  Are there any questions or comments?  COMMENTS ON “PRIMARY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OF AIR FORCES”  In this final lecture, Fairchild continued his discussion from the previous chapter on the critical question of targeting. In “National Economic Struc- ture” the choice lay between attacking the civilian population or the eco- nomic infrastructure. In this lecture, the decision shifted back to a more fundamental consideration of whether to target enemy military forces or economic infrastructure. The ACTS solution was to attack national econom- ic structure, which Fairchild proclaimed to be the ultimate objective of an  What to Target 193  air force. Enemy military forces were only an intermediate objective to “the ultimate aim . . . the