side of the fuselage. In the nose of the fuselage extending forward of the leading edge of the wings, are placed the pilot, the bomber and the front gunner. In the rear portion of the fuselage are located the rear gunners. An alternate arrangement of rear gunners is to place them in the engine nacelles. By such an arrangement, excellent vision for the pilot and the bomber are af- forded. Flexibly mounted machine guns cover all areas open to the approach of hostile attacking aircraft. The airplane is equipped with radio telephone with which communications between airplanes may be maintained and for- mations controlled in flight. With the rapid advance of aeronautical develop- ment the above conception of the proper types of bombardment airplanes will be changed from time to time, when increased performance will make possible greater load and cruising range.  For purposes of discussion, bombardment tactics will be reviewed under the following headings:  90 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Day operations at high altitudes.  Day operations at low altitudes.  Night operations.  Special support by other classes of aviation.  Day Operations at High Altitude  In conducting day operations at high altitudes—meaning altitudes above ten thousand feet—a bombardment unit will normally perform a mission with its airplanes in formation. The formation lends itself to the delivery of a mass attack, to defensive machine gun fire superior to that which may be brought against it, and affords a measure of security against antiaircraft fire. That a mass attack is delivered from a formation is, of course, obvious. It is necessary, however, to investigate the types of formations adopted to under- stand their defensive powers when opposed to hostile pursuit and antiair- craft artillery.  Although it is not desired to consider in detail all points concerning the bombardment formation, it is believed that the discussion which follows will indicate sufficiently the features upon which