ed. This economic disarrange- ment brought about, among other things, rapidly rising prices, food and fuel shortages, transportation congestion, labor unrest, and suffering and weak- ened morale among a large portion of the civilian population. At one time every siding and much of the rail line was filled up, from the port of New York as far west as Pittsburgh, with backed up freight trains, caused by con- gestion due to the war load. This condition existed for almost three months, during which time trains could be moved only with the greatest difficulty, if at all. The repercussions were far-reaching and seriously retarded our war effort.  Innumerable examples could be cited to show the difficulties which this great industrial nation experienced in attempting to meet the war-time load that was placed upon industry, but time is not available for this historical examination. I think, however, it is quite plain that modern warfare places an enormous load upon the economic system of a nation, which increases its sensitivity to attack manifold. Certainly a breakdown in any part of this complex interlocked organization must seriously influence the conduct of war by that nation, and greatly interfere with the social welfare and morale of its nationals. No nation at the outbreak of war has a sufficient supply of war material on hand. It must depend on a program of rapid expansion that will increase production and distribution to satisfy requirements.  It is characteristic of modern civilization that the economic structure is dependent as a whole upon the integrity and continued functioning of each one of its individual elements. Raw materials must be available. They must be transported to the processing and manufacturing centers and from there moved on to numberless other assembling and finishing plants; through a long chain of operations, with many stops on the way, before the completed article is ready for final delivery. And everywhere there must be available— Power. Wi