ent aspect of war will dissolve, when forms, customs and opinions will again be altered. Looking forward into the future, we seem to feel the coming of a time when the armed millions of the present will have played their part. A new Alexander will arise who with a small body of well equipped and skilled warriors will drive the impotent hordes before him.”  It is apparent that our concern will be with broad generalities rather than with specific combats or specific types of equipment. This is at best a difficult and controversial subject and if we permit ourselves to become involved in argument over combat tactics we will soon mire down and lose sight of our broader purpose.  In studying the old wars, however, we are disconcerted by a statement that often appears in military writings to the effect that a new war is never like the last war. General Kitchener is reported to have said of the trench warfare of the World War “that whatever it was, it wasn’t war!”  Here we found stabilization developed to its highest degree. It was a war of attrition with anchored flanks from the straits to the frontier of Switzer- land. It gave birth to air power. For air, however, it was chiefly a ground force cooperation type of war—it was a war in which the airplane simply intensi- fied the killing power of the ground arms by supplying better maps, better information and better regulation of artillery fire. It was a war in which only the smallest percentage of airplanes could be made available for use in an air offensive. It is our contention, therefore, that although we may draw certain lessons from the World War we must be very careful in any application of these lessons to the next.  We have before used the British 41st Wing as the subject of a conference. It is to this force and to its expansion into the British Independent Force, RAB that we are compelled to turn at this time, for it is the only independent  102 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  offensive operation of whi