ell as assistant Chief of the Air Service. Instead, Mitchell reverted to his permanent rank of colonel and was reassigned to Fort Sam Houston, Texas, in March 1925.**  In August 1925, Mitchell published Winged Defense, a hastily prepared book comprised of previously published articles that directly attacked Secre- tary Weeks. In September, following the navy’s back-to-back loss of a PN-9 sea plane and the dirigible Shenandoah, Mitchell issued a statement call- ing the Navy and War Departments incompetent and criminally negligent in their administration of national defense. President Calvin Coolidge re- sponded by appointing the Morrow Board to assess the development of air power. Coolidge further charged Mitchell with insubordination, resulting in a publicized court-martial and the resignation of his commission in Febru- ary 1926.”  Mitchell would continue to advocate publicly for air power, but with his direct connection to the Air Service now severed, it would be left up to his lieutenants at the Air Corps Tactical School to mature American strategic  The 1925 court-martial of Brigadier General Billy Mitchell.  Introduction 19  bombing doctrine. Unlike Douhet and Trenchard, Mitchell argued for a bal- ance force of bombers and pursuit aircraft until the early 1930s when he, too, began to fall under the spell of the promise of unescorted long-range bombers.  Arr Corps TACTICAL SCHOOL  Back when Mitchell was waging his air power crusade against the army and navy, the Air Service organized the Field Officers’ School at Langley Field, Virginia, to instruct officers on air tactics. The school opened in November 1920, but its first academic year was cut short when Mitchell appropriated the faculty and students in the spring of 1921 to participate in the sinking of the Ostfriesland. In 1922, the school was renamed the Air Service Tacti- cal School. Its commandant, Major Thomas Milling, and his assistant, Ma- jor William Sherman, developed a nine-month curriculum that incl