ment the Army Air Forces in- dicated in the foregoing.  An air offensive against Germany can be initiated by a token force of 3 Heavy Bombardment Groups in April 1942.  If an all out effort is initiated immediately, the air offensive against Ger- many can reach full power in April 1944.  ‘The air offensive against Germany can be sustained at full power.  AWPD-1 245  COMPARISON OF OPPOSING AIR FORCES.  In operations against Germany, the estimated numerical relationship be- tween the Germany Air Force and the combined strength of the Army Air Forces and the Royal Air Force will be as follows:  Table A2.11. Comparison of Opposing Air Forces Superiority GAF RAF+AAF  July 1, 1943 Bombers 62% Pursuit 22% Fighter 90%  Total Combat 83% Mid 1944 Bombers 15% Pursuit 22% Fighter 90%  Total Combat 16% Ultimate Bombers 59% Pursuit 22% Fighter 90%  Total Combat 11%  The numerical comparison is no true indication of the relative strength of the opposing Air Forces. We now have a superiority in performance in Heavy Bombers and it is proposed to maintain that superiority and win the war by exploiting the superiority of our Heavy Bombers to the utmost.  ‘The grand total Army Air Forces set up in the foregoing is a large force. It is designed to win a large war.  CONCLUSION.  ‘The forces required to accomplish the mission of the Army Air Forces have  246 = Appendix 2  been computed carefully. They represent the minimum force necessary to succeed in each task. Any reduction in force must therefore include a reduc- tion in task.  For example, if the 25 groups required for the defense of the United States, our possessions and the Western Hemisphere cannot be made avail- able, the task must be reduced to the defense of a specific part of the Hemi- sphere or of specified possessions.  If the required combat airplanes are manufactured for the Army Air Forces, personnel can be trained to man and to operate those air forces as soon as the combat airplanes can be manufactured.  The Army Air Fo