ing at this decision.  ‘The point in question is whether, in the final analysis, the more certain path to victory, even though somewhat longer and more difficult, does not lead through the defeat of the hostile armed forces. The end sought in each course of action is the same. In one case it is intended to remove the forces that may successfully oppose our offensive action. We would then achieve a position that would permit the unhampered application of pressure upon the hostile nation. The other theory prescribes the application of that pressure in the first instance, and the neglect of the hostile armed forces as an objective of other than casual concern.  ‘The direct and exclusive attack of the structure of the enemy nation is of course purely offensive action. It must succeed quickly, as it permits the air force of the enemy to operate with the utmost freedom. It may give him the opportunity to strike, in his turn, similar targets within our own nation as well as to operate against our air force with the idea of defeating it directly. On the other hand, the selection of the hostile air force as the primary objec- tive has a dual purpose. It seeks an ultimate victory through the defeat of the enemy’s air force. In the meantime it provides the maximum possible degree of security of all objectives that the opposing air force would seek to attack, including not only objectives within the nation but also objectives vital to the continued action of our own armed forces.  Now it seems from this discussion that the governing factor must be the relative degree of vulnerability of the opposing nations and of their various classes of objectives. Certainly this degree of vulnerability will never be ex- actly the same and usually it will be very different.  Let us take the simple case where opposing nations each select the en- emy national structure as the primary objective of their respective air forces. If each air force continues to pound away at the hostile national stru