e Allied armies reenter the Continent, you will afford them all possible support in the manner most effective.  7. In attacking objectives in occupied territories, you will conform to such instructions as may be issued from time to time for political reasons by His Majesty’s Government through the British Chiefs of Staff.  Appendix 5  Pointblank Directive  POINTBLANK DIRECTIVE $.46368/A.C.A.S.(Ops.) 10th June, 1943 Sir,  Iam directed to refer to Directive C.C.S.166/1/D dated 21st January, 1943, issued by the Combined Chiefs of Staff and forwarded to the Commanding General, Eighth Air Force and the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Bomb- er Command under cover of Air Ministry letter $.46368/A.C.A.S.(Ops.) dat- ed 4th February, 1943. This directive contained instructions for the conduct of the British and American bomber offensive from this country.  2. In paragraph 2 of the directive, the primary objectives were set out in order of priority, subject to the exigencies of weather and tactical feasibility. Since the issue of this directive there have been rapid developments in the strategi- cal situation which have demanded a revision of the priorities originally laid down.  3. The increasing scale of destruction which is being inflicted by our night bomber forces and the development of the day bombing offensive by the Eighth Air Force have forced the enemy to deploy day and night fighters in increasing numbers on the Western Front. Unless this increase in fighter strength is checked we may find our bomber forces unable to fulfill the tasks allotted to them by the Combined Chiefs of Staff.  4. In these circumstances it has become essential to check the growth and to reduce the strength of the day and night fighter forces which the enemy can concentrate against us in this theatre. To this end the Combined Chiefs of Staff have decided that the first priority in the operation of British and  268 Appendix 5  American bombers based in the United Kingdom shall be accorded to t