delivered is of course determined. The time during which the formation will be within range of the batteries may be calculated. A formation flying at a speed of from two to three miles a minute will be within effective antiaircraft ranges but for a short space of time. These tactics present a problem to the defending antiaircraft artillery far greater than that presented when the bombardment formation approaches an objective in a compact formation.  In bombing from such a formation, each airplane is held to a straight course for those seconds (not to exceed twenty) required to perform the tim- ing operation and release the bombs. Upon release of bombs the airplanes again assume a maneuvering course until the defended area is passed through.  When a bombardment unit takes off to perform a mission, it will nor- mally open to a dispersed formation. The compact defensive formation is re- quired only for defense against hostile aircraft. The bombardment pilots are subjected to less strain in flying the dispersed formation than in the defensive formation. The route selected for the mission will avoid, as nearly as pos- sible, the known or suspected areas in which hostile pursuit is certain to be operating, and where antiaircraft artillery is sure to be emplaced. If, however, there is no alternative, the formation will proceed to the objective through the hostile combat zone. As it is possible that the hostile pursuit will attempt to intercept the bombardment formation as it crosses the hostile front lines, the air force commander will arrange that, at the time and place where the bombardment unit crosses the lines, friendly pursuit will be present in force. By such action, the bombardment formation may be enabled to maintain the dispersed formation while flying over the combat zone. Should hostile pursuit be present, the friendly pursuit should be able to effectively prevent  The Bomber Always Gets Through 95  @ Leacins Excoenr @ Secovo* ELEWATION Sa ae  Ecevation Scae “j