e replacement of those armed forces possible? A nation may still find heart and courage to resist after a military disaster. No hope remains for the nation de- prived of its power to maintain, to reinforce, or to replace its armed forces.  It has already been shown that the destruction of the capacity for war of a nation can be combined with the direct application of pressure to the civil population without loss of efficiency to either purpose. The industrial mechanisms which provide the means of war to the armed forces and those that provide the means of sustaining a normal life to the civil population, are not separate, disconnected entities. They are joined at many vital points. If not electric power, then the destruction of some other common element will render them both inoperative at a single blow. The nation-wide reaction to the stunning discovery that the sources of the country’s power to resist and to sustain itself are being relentlessly destroyed can hardly fail to be decisive.  ‘The conclusion seems to be inevitable that under the Principle of the Ob- jective, here is, in every case, the ideal primary strategic objective of the air force. It utilizes to the full the peculiar capabilities of the air force and would normally constitute its maximum possible contribution to the national war aim. Normally, only two considerations should prevent its exclusive selec- tion. First, sheer inability of our air force to accomplish the task. Second, ac-  190 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  tion found essential, under the Principle of Security, to provide the required degree of protection to our armed forces and our own national structure.  The employment of air forces against basically vital keys or links of the hostile economic structure combines the advantages of the enemy national structure objective and the armed force objective. Only those armed forces in being that are fully supplied and fully equipped escape the influence of such employment, if succ