nd if intercep- tions depended upon us as group commanders of pursuit aviation, undoubt- edly we would pray for the cloudless skies that occurred day after day in sunny Spain. Weather has become a factor which permits evasion of the pursuit de- fense and will be a powerful factor in reducing striking force interceptions.  110 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Ratio of Bombardment to Pursuit Speeds  &  Ratio = Bombardment Speed / Pursuit Speed  191s 1920 1925 1930 1935 1940  Our second factor is the speed superiority of the pursuit airplanes with respect to bombing aircraft. This is a most important factor. Very high speeds tend to affect seriously the maneuverability of the pursuit airplane. However, the higher the speed of the bombardment airplane, the more favorable will be its use in the tactical offensive. The higher the speed, the greater the aircraft interception net required for antiaircraft defense and, therefore, the fewer the vital establishments that can be provided a reasonable defense. The speed of these airplanes has almost tripled since 1918. The effect of these high speeds is to reduce the time of air combat between any two points on the earth's surface. ‘These speeds require the fastest kind of estimation on the part of the air com- bat commander involved. Whereas in actual air combat, speed difference is of vital interest, we are interested particularly in the ratio of bombardment speed to pursuit speed when we consider the problems of interception.  Summing up, the ratio of bombardment to pursuit speed curve has had its downs and ups in the last twenty years. Any increase of the ratio of bomb- er speed to pursuit speed increases the difficulties of pursuit not only in inter- ception but also in air combat, tending to reduce the effectiveness of contact. As a general rule newly designed and higher powered engines usually are placed in pursuit airplanes before being installed in the larger aircraft. It is the consensus of opinion of good ai