which, measured in time, will be such to allow the bombardment for-  The Bomber Always Gets Through 97  mation to proceed a great deal of time without being subjected either to the fire of pursuit or antiaircraft. If the action of pursuit and antiaircraft can be so coordinated and perfected that antiaircraft can fire during the intervals be- tween successive pursuit attacks, without danger to the attacking pursuit, it may be then habitual for friendly pursuit to support a bombardment forma- tion. Friendly pursuit should be able to break up any coordinated attack by the hostile pursuit, thus permitting the bombardment unit to maintain an open or dispersed formation without sacrifice of the scheme of defensive machine gun fire. . . . [The sections “Day Operations at Low Altitude,’ “Night Opera- tions,’ and “Special Support by Other Classes of Aviation” have been omitted.]  Conclusion  An attempt has been made to outline, in a most general way, those methods by which a bombardment attack may be driven home. There are many alter- native methods which are believed practicable but which follow to an extent those above discussed. How efficacious the tactics may prove to be can only be discovered in war. It is believed, however, that proper application of these tactics will lead to successful bombardment operations.  By no means may it be assumed that bombardment units, applying these or any other tactics, can avoid casualties. A certain loss in men and material is a price which must be paid for success. This is true for any military force. ‘The results obtained will be the determining factor as to whether or not the price paid is too high.  It must be remembered by those responsible for the defense against bombardment operations, that a bombardment unit will not be stopped by the presence of a strong defense or a mere show of force. It is generally con- ceded, by those who are competent to judge, that an air attack well launched is most difficult to stop. The bursting of a