Number of 123 Targets 5. Factors Involved in conducting th ir operation:  a. Destructive effect of bombing. Direct hits by bombs will destroy all the targets selected. In some cases repeat-raids must be conduct- ed to prevent rebuilding. Forces have been provided to meet this requirement.  b. Feasibility of conducting accurate bombing. Experience has shown that it is perfectly feasible to conduct accurate, high level, daylight bombing under combat conditions, in the face of enemy antiaircraft and fighter opposition.  c. Feasibility of penetrating fighter and AA defense without excessive losses. With our present types of well armed and armored bombers, and through skillful employment of great masses, it is possible to penetrate the known and projected defenses of Europe and the Far East without reaching a loss-rate which would prevent our waging a sustained offensive.  d. Rate of operations, and weather. Studies of the European and Japa- nese Theaters indicate that the following rates of operation of bomb-  AWPD-42 261  er units may be anticipated: Europe—5 to 6 operations a month. Far East—10 operations per month.  6. Air Forces Required to carry out the operations listed above in 1943 and early 1944.  281 Groups, to carry out operations 1 to 5 incl., Program A. The size force required to fully complete this task cannot be provided in the theaters shown until January 1944. However, during the period of build-up—in 1942—the available forces can be partially complet- ing the selected operations. It is anticipated that they can complete about one-third of the tasks required for the air offensive in 1943. Hence, it is expected that the air offensive against Germany, requir- ing six months of operations of the complete force, at the rates of operations expected, can be one-third accomplished in 1943, thus requiring four months of operations in 1944. This operation should be complete by May 1944, and the Combined Offensive should fol- low immediately thereafter.  336 Grou