—the people in the street. They represent the mainspring of every national machine. They are literally the heart of every national structure. Ultimately, defeat or vic- tory is determined by the breakdown or the triumph of the citizen at home. If there can be any question of the truth of this statement, we have only to consider the last war for verification. The German war machine collapsed  78 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  because the German political empire collapsed. Germany's armies—her mili- tary forces—were far from being defeated. They were, in fact, still on foreign soil and their Homeland was intact. Defeat was finally expressed because the people at home, the body politic, had lost its willingness to fight, because the will to resist of the German citizen had been broken. As in every other case, when to continue seemed hopeless, the cause was lost. That example seems particularly conclusive because of the type of government prevalent in Ger- many. Germany was an absolute monarchy, dominated by a war-like military machine. If there can be any doubt that ultimately the people are sovereign, that governments are accepted or tolerated by the people, then surely that doubt should be dispelled in the light of German experience.  ‘The mainspring of national government lies in the mass of the people. Only so long as those people maintain their will to fight, can any government continue to fight. Whatever may be the morale in the armed forces, the loss of morale at home is decisive.  Gentlemen, in laying such stress upon the enemy’s “will to fight—or will to resist,” we presuppose his ability to fight. However willing he may be, obvi- ously he must also have the means. When it comes to armed conflict, he must have armed forces.  Von Clausewitz has also defined armed forces for us. He said, “Armed forces are instruments for the furtherance of national policy.”  A nation which pursues policies likely to provoke conflict, must have the means to enforce it