- rienced aviators, they had almost no combat experience. Only George had fought in World War I, but only in the last week of the war. None were trained as economists, political scientists, or historians. In addition, these officers had limited professional military education other than having attended the ACTS: Wilson had attended the Army General Command and Staff College and Fairchild the Army Industrial College and War College. Overall this was a smart group of men, but their confidence in what air power could achieve independently was supported not by any special expertise or their own com- bat experience but rather by their faith and belief in HADPB.  Preface xiii  This project would not have been possible without the assistance and en- couragement of a number of people. My thanks to Tim Schultz, Barry Posen, Owen Cote, Colin Jackson, Williamson Murray, Mark Clodfelter, Richard Muller, Paul Kennedy, Angus Ross, Ray O’Mara, Sally Paine, Nick Saran- takes, Marc Genest, David Stone, Joshua Rovner, Joshua Shifrinson, Archie Difante, Maranda Gilmore, Jean Carrillo, Holly Hermes, and Geoffrey Burn. A special acknowledgment is reserved for Bonnie, who is not only a phe- nomenal editor of my rambling prose but an even better partner for life.    Note on the Text  The body of this book consists of lectures given at the Air Corps Tactical School at Maxwell Field, Alabama, from 1936 to 1940. Records of the ACTS, including typewritten copies of lectures, are located in the Air Force Histori- cal Research Agency at Maxwell AFB, Alabama. The ten lectures selected are from more than sixty given in the Air Force and Bombardment courses from 1932 to 1940. The lectures were chosen based on the following criteria. First, these are the most important lectures, the ones most quoted in books on US strategic bombing in World War II. Combined, these lectures lay out the logic and assumptions for a uniquely American theory of strategic bombing theory based on high-altitude daylight pr