ations in support of our land and sea forces to regain bases within striking distance of Japan. This involves support of amphibi- ous forces driving northwest from Australia as a base area, and of land forces driving northeast from India as a base area.  (2) Air operations against Japan proper to destroy her war making ca- pacity. This operation may be undertaken fairly promptly if it is pos- sible to retain the Russian Maritime provinces as a base area.  Sequence of Operations in 1943 and early 1944. Air Operations: Since:  (1) The German air force must be depleted and the German war econ- omy must be undermined before a successful invasion of the Euro- pean continent can be undertaken; and  (2) Base areas for an air offensive must be secured before a decisive at- tack can be launched against Japan; and  (3) Each of these undertakings will involve large forces and will require considerable time for accomplishment.  It appears that the air operations which can be carried out simultane-  ously in 1943 and early 1944 may be listed as follows:  Program A  (1) An Air offensive against Germany to deplete the German Air Forces and submarine force and undermine German war economy.  (2) Air support of operations in North Africa.  (3) Air support of operations in Middle East.  (4) Air operations in Far East. Support of surface forces in regaining bases and operations against enemy lines of communication and in- stallations from available bases.  (5) Air operations in Hemisphere Defense.  When these operations have been successfully accomplished, we will be  AWPD-42 257  in a position to carry out the following air operations—later in 1944—suc- cessively and simultaneously.  Program B  (6) Air operations in support of a Combined Offensive against Germany. (7) An air offensive against Japan.  4. Description of air operations.  a. AIR OFFENSIVE AGAINST GERMANY.  The air offensive against Germany is a combined effort by the U.S. Army Air Force and the R.A.F. The U.S. Army Air Fo