housand five hundred feet from the leading squadron. The fourth squadron flies to the rear of the leading squadron at a distance of approximately 3,000 feet and about 2,000 feet above the leading squadron. Within squadrons, the second elements are echeloned upward in altitude to the rear of the first or leading element. The individual airplanes are flown from four hundred to six hundred feet apart in their respective elements. Within such a formation, the airplanes are con- stantly changing speed, altitude and direction in maintaining the assigned distances. When antiaircraft fire is anticipated or experienced, each airplane, guiding upon the one in front of it within its respective element, engages in decided maneuvers. Endeavor is made to change altitude, speed or direction, or a combination of these, within the time of flight of the antiaircraft shell to  94 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  the altitude at which the airplanes are flying. With these distances between airplanes, one antiaircraft shell can injure but one airplane. Should all batter- ies within range concentrate on one squadron, the other squadrons are not in danger. If the batteries do not concentrate their fire, the probability of hits is reduced. When attacking a compact defensive formation, all batteries may concentrate their fire against the formation, with the probability that slight errors in fire, directed against a particular airplane, will hit another airplane in the formation, and that a shell which hits or detonates near one airplane may seriously damage another airplane.  Ina group formation such as described above, forty individual and sepa- rate targets are presented to the antiaircraft artillery. By plotting an antiair- craft gun defense, the area in which effective fire may be delivered is of course determined. The time during which the formation will be within range of the batteries may be calculated. A formation flying at a speed of from two to three miles a minute will b