approach of military strategists as to how future wars should be fought. For many, air power promised the means to avoid the enormous costs and suffering en- dured by land-based attritional warfare. Also, the manner in which World War I ended with the collapse of civilian morale at home while German sol- diers remained deployed on foreign soil had a deep impact on military think- ing. Many soldiers and airmen on both sides of the trenches believed that the German military had been “stabbed in the back” by weak and undisciplined civilians who had lost the will to fight. A central tenet of strategic bombing theory based on this lesson was that air power could avoid another lengthy and bloody war by overflying the enemy’s defenses and directly targeting the vulnerable will of the people.  STRATEGIC BOMBING THEORY IN THE INTERWAR PERIOD  In addition to the lessons taken from World War I, geostrategic concerns played a role as to which nations embraced strategic bombing. The continen-  Introduction 9  tal powers of Germany, France, and Russia, whose survival depended on de- fending against invasion, focused predominantly on how to better integrate air and ground forces in combined arms approaches to warfare.” Italy, Great Britain, and the United States, on the other hand, countries with the luxury of having intervening bodies of water between them and their enemies, con- sidered how air power might be employed independently. Italy was the first to produce an influential air power theorist in Giulio Douhet.  Giulio Douhet  Giulio Douhet began his career as an artillery officer when he first saw the potential for air power in 1911 during Italy’s war in Libya against the Otto- man Empire. He commanded an aviation battalion in World War I, but was court-martialed for criticizing the ineptness of the Italian Army. Incarcerated for a year, he was vindicated and reinstated in 1917 after the Italian defeat at the Battle of Caporetto. By 1918, he was directing the Italian Central