n whose results should be quick and decisive because each blow would augment and reinforce all the other blows to produce an accumulative effect.  Now taking New York City as a typical great city, let us for this once get off Broadway, neglect the theaters and night clubs and see what the rest of the metropolitan district really is like.  As a port New York is the largest in the world, handling 40% of our entire foreign trade. It possesses five hundred steamship piers, half of which are capable of accommodating ocean-going vessels, and it has more freight handling equipment than any other port in the world.  New York is the financial center of the world. Its financial machinery makes possible the major industrial undertakings of the nation which are, in the main, directed and controlled from this center. New York is the nation’s market place.  New York is the largest industrial center in the world. Its 36,000 indus- trial establishments turn out about 10% of the factories of the entire United States—to a value of about 10 billion dollars a year.  In the metropolitan district there is a population of 11 million persons.  Vital and Vulnerable 167  Brooklyn alone has 600,000 more people than Philadelphia. Manhattan con- tains 300,000 more people than Detroit. The Borough of the Bronx is about the same size as Los Angeles. The density of population over the entire dis- trict is around 200 per acre, and for Manhattan it is about 1,000 per acre. Why did such an enormous city develop here at the mouth of the Hudson River and how is it possible for such a number of people to be packed and crowded so closely into the area around this port? The basic answer can be given in one word—Transportation.  Since this is so obviously one of the absolutely fundamental elements in the existence of this great city, let us examine into it, trace its historical devel- opment and see what its influence really is.  A hundred years ago, New York was a city of some 200,000 people. The open fie