burned a square mile of the city. After two weeks of teetering between HADPB and area bomb- ing, LeMay finally committed to the latter. On March 9, he ordered that the B-29s be stripped of their self-defense armament and flown at low altitude, measures that allowed for a doubling of the incendiary bomb load. The night attack on Tokyo proved to be the single most destructive air raid in history, killing more than 80,000 and destroying sixteen square miles of Tokyo. After-  222 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  ward, XXI Bomber Command abandoned the pretext of HADPB, conducting four similar strikes over the next nine days that left much of Tokyo, Osaka, Kobe, and Nagoya destroyed. LeMay persisted with firebombing raids over the next five months until the war ended following the atomic bombing of Hi- roshima and Nagasaki on August 6 and 9, 1945, respectively. The firebombing campaign destroyed the majority of Japan's industrial cities and, in the pro- cess, killed between 260,000 and 310,000 civilians, injured another 412,000, and destroyed 2.2 million houses, leaving 9.2 million people homeless.”*  Why HADPB Failed to Independently Win the War against Japan  Allied victory was not the result of the independent air campaign envisioned by ACTS theorists, by which the Japanese economy would have been par- alyzed by surgical attacks against its vital and vulnerable economic nodes. Surrender was secured, rather, by a combination of the naval blockade, the firebombing of Japanese cities, the Soviet invasion of Manchuria, and the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.” B-29s contributed not only to the firebombing and atomic attacks but also to the blockade by the aerial mining of Japanese waters to interdict local shipping.”  In the end, the B-29’s performance did provide an argument for an in- dependent air force, though not as a result of HADPB. Aside from the em- ployment challenges previously discussed (poor weather, high winds, and extreme slant ranges), th