no aircraft plant on the outskirts of Tokyo. Results were poor. A mere 24 aircraft located the target, with only 48 of the 1,000 bombs released actually landing within the factory perimeter, inflicting little damage. The one positive note was that only one B-29 was lost to a Japanese fighter and another ditched due to fuel starvation. A follow-up raid on November 27 found Tokyo obscured, and subsequent raids through the end of December faced similar difficulties identifying targets. Even when factories were visible, B-29 bombardiers could not consistently hit their marks because of extreme winds and slant ranges.”  Washington continually pressed Hansell for better results. Brigadier General Lauris Norstad, who had replaced Hansell at the Pentagon and was effectively in charge of 20th Air Force while General Arnold recovered from a heart attack, repeatedly urged Hansell to conduct incendiary raids on Japa- nese industrial cities. Hansell resisted. Following the December 27 raid on Tokyo, regarding which Hansell acknowledged to the press the many opera- tional problems yet to be solved, a recuperating and frustrated Arnold fired    High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombing in World War II 221  Lauris Norstad, Curtis LeMay, and Thomas Power (left to right) on March 10, 1945, reviewing report on the firebombing of Tokyo. (National Archives)  Hansell. Curtis LeMay soon arrived from China and assumed command on January 20, 1945.”  For the next month, LeMay continued with the HADPB tactics with simi- larly meager results, all the while receiving continual prodding from Norstad to conduct incendiary raids. On February 25, 172 B-29s loaded with incendi- ary bombs employed their APQ-13 radars from high altitude to area-bomb Tokyo. Photographic evidence showed that the attacks had burned a square mile of the city. After two weeks of teetering between HADPB and area bomb- ing, LeMay finally committed to the latter. On March 9, he ordered that the B-29s be stripped of their self-