retched weather of that theater of operations.  It is, therefore, in the employment of the Day Squadrons that we may ex- pect to find the greatest result in our research.  All of the Day Squadrons were initially equipped with DH-9 airplanes. ‘These airplanes were rather slow. They were approximately twenty miles an hour slower than the German Albatross and Fokker fighters that were en- countered. The radius of action of these bombers was such that weather con- ditions, particularly the high westerly winds prevalent in that theater, had to be considered in all operations involving objectives in the Rhine Valley. Squadron personnel took three to four weeks of final service training in for- mation flying at their airdromes on the front before being sent over the lines. ‘The air attacks against Germany were conducted by units of six to twelve airplanes in formation. Each airplane had one defensive gunner, firing in the upper rear hemisphere. There was limited gun fire to the front from the single fixed gun.  The Bomber Always Gets Through 103  ‘The number of German pursuit airplanes that opposed these British for- mations varied. At times, however, there was a German superiority of five to one in this area. From August, 1918, onwards 16 Home Defense flights of 15 aircraft each assisted by five Pursuit flights of 18 aircraft each had assembled along routes most likely to be followed by British aircraft. A total of over 300 first class fighters—Albatross and Fokkers—were defending an area which would include the Montgomery-Birmingham-Atlanta Sector. It is to be ob- served that all of the penetrations into Germany passed through a relatively narrow arc. The German pursuit forces were concentrated behind the lines along that narrow arc.  What, then, are the questions—the answers of which we are seeking?  We would this morning—if we could—call to our assistance the first leader of the air offensive—Viscount Hugh Trenchard, retired Marshal of the British Air Force, who comman