g as the advent of radar tilted the offense-defense balance toward the defenders, and the persistent clouds over Germany and Japan neutralized the potential lethality of high- altitude daylight precision air strikes.  Though not as decisive as envisioned by the ACTS, strategic bombing proved to be a critical component of the Allied victory. In early 1944, the threat from the daylight bombing of the German heartland compelled Luft- waffe fighters into the air to engage the bomber formations and their lethal long-range fighter escorts on unequal terms. US fighters had decimated the Luftwaffe by late spring, clearing the skies over the beaches of Normandy for the Allied ground invasion. Meanwhile, air interdiction missions in France prevented the German Army’s strategic reserves from fortifying their de- fenses. As the Western Front moved eastward, US air strikes against German petroleum production and transportation networks collapsed the German economy, thus starving the German Army and Air Force of fuel and supplies. Though US strategic bombing did not win the war on its own, it was a ma- jor contributor to the combined arms effort that proved decisive in western Europe. Meanwhile, in the Pacific, a joint effort was required as an exten- sive naval campaign was needed to provide basing and logistics for US B-29 bombers to reach the Japanese islands. Though a number of factors contrib- uted to the Japanese defeat, it was the B-29s that delivered the two atomic bombs to Hiroshima and Nagasaki, triggering Japan’s surrender.  Even though the strategic bombing theorists were proven wrong in World War II—air forces almost never independently win wars—their ideas were critical during the interwar period in prompting the United States to develop the long-range aircraft capable of projecting combat power across continents. Without the airmen’s prewar efforts, such offensive capabilities would not have existed and the Americans would have been constrained, as were the Germans