king force suffers more than 10% losses on each mission that air operations will soon be very seri- ously curtailed. German air operations ceased against London when losses built up to 14%.  We will use this figure of 10% as a basis for further discussion. If we glance at our chart, we believe that you will concur that the British could expect such 10% losses when a striking force formation was outnumbered about 1.5 to 1. Such a figure taken from this chart would mean that when a  106 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  British formation of nine DH's was attacked by fourteen German Albatrosses the British usually lost one airplane.  We have previously mentioned a tabulation that was made for data for the preparation of this chart. There are several interesting additional figures that may be quoted.  A total of 191 day missions were conducted on a true air offensive into Germany. A total of 1,641 airplanes invaded Germany to bomb German ob- jectives. This does not include the missions that were assigned in counter-air force operations against German airdromes. It does not include those forced to return because of engine trouble. An additional 228 airplanes could have bombed if engine trouble had not forced a return to the airdrome. This is a high percentage—17.5% of those that actually were exposed, and indicates the engine unreliability in 1918. We would not expect certainly such a percentage in any air operations that we would conduct in 1939. It includes only those which were exposed. Now, there were ninety-one bombers actually shot down in air combat. This is 5.5% of the number of bombers that started for an objec- tive and were not forced to return for any reason. There were, of course, many other British losses that we are not interested in—crashes, forced landings in friendly and in enemy territory due to navigation or engine trouble—only one airplane is reported shot down by antiaircraft artillery fire. We note from British reports that these defensive