ansformers, the turbines, generators, rotary converters or even the boilers of steam plants. It is impos- sible to store electricity as we store petroleum. Immediately upon the break- down of any link in the chain the industry served by that system ceases to operate. You have all seen the open transformer units located at either end of large transmission lines. They occupy considerable area and are very vulner- able to attack with demolition bombs, especially in view of the additional destruction that would occur, due to shorts and the burning or fusing of installations requiring months to repair or replace.  162 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  ‘The power plants themselves must certainly be considered a most vul- nerable target, due to the high speed rotating mechanism, turbines and gen- erators, or the high pressure steam installations. Any detonation that would move the foundations of this machinery or would throw it out of line, would certainly cause its destruction or serious damage.  Now is sufficient destruction within the capacity of a reasonably sized force? Study discloses that a majority of the steam capacity in this area is located in about eight plants. But suppose we include all 49 of the impor- tant plants in our estimate. Since you have just finished the Bombardment Course, you are all experts in the theory of probability, so I will leave to you the calculation of the size force that would be required to do this job. That is, unless you would prefer to accept the general conclusion that a very reason- ably sized force should be able to knock out practically all of these forty-nine sources in a very short period of concentrated operations. As has already been said, the results would be immediate, cumulative and comparatively permanent.  I would like to call your attention, parenthetically, to the fact that, when air forces are properly employed, their lack of continuous operation or con- tinuous rate of fire, which is so often referred to by