atre. To this end the Combined Chiefs of Staff have decided that the first priority in the operation of British and  268 Appendix 5  American bombers based in the United Kingdom shall be accorded to the attack of German fighter forces and the industry upon which they depend.  5. The primary object of the bomber forces remains as set out in the origi- nal directive issued by the Combined Chiefs of Staff (C.C.S.166/1/D dated 21st January, 1943) i.e.: “the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened”  6. In view, however, of the factors referred to in para. 4 of the following prior- ity objectives have been assigned to the Eighth Air Force:  Intermediate objective: German Fighter Strength Primary objectives: German submarine yards and bases The remainder of the German aircraft industry Ball bearings Oil (contingent upon attacks against Ploesti from the Mediterranean) Secondary objectives: Synthetic rubber and tyres Military motor transport vehicles.  While the forces of the British Bomber Command will be employed in ac- cordance with their main aim in the general disorganization of German in- dustry their action will be designed as far as practicable to be complementary to the operations of the Eighth Air Force.  7. In pursuance of the particular requirements of para. 6 above, I am to re- quest you to direct your forces to the following tasks:  (i) the destruction of German airframe, engine and component facto- ries and the ball-bearing industry of which the strength of the Ger- man fighter force depend.  (ii) the general disorganization of those industrial areas associated with the above industries.  (iii) the destruction of those aircraft repair depots and storage parks within range, and on which the enemy fighter force is largely dependent.  Pointblank Directive 269  (iv) the destruction o