ficulties of the frontal or flank attack, or the attack from the lower rear hemisphere of a formation. In the frontal attack, the speed of approach of the pursuit is the sum of the speeds of the pursuit airplanes and the bombardment formation. This great speed limits the time in which the attacking pursuit is in position to deliver accurate aimed fire to but a few seconds. In the flank attack the target is moving at right angles to the line of fire of the pursuit—aimed fire is again difficult. In the attack from the lower rear hemisphere, the pursuit airplane pulls up from a dive beneath the forma- tion. The speed of the pursuit airplanes is materially reduced in the upward climb and the airplane “hangs” beneath the formation within range of the bombardment machine guns a longer period of time than is available for the pursuit airplanes to deliver aimed fire. In an attack from the upper rear hemi- sphere, the speed of approach is the difference between the speed of the for- mation and the attacking airplane; the front guns of the latter may be aimed from the beginning of the dive to completing the attack; the speed built up in the dive insures rapid withdrawal upon completion of the attack; the for- mation is moving generally in line of fire of the attacking pursuit airplane. Pursuit will attack from all angles, however, and as above noted, all angles of approach are well covered by machine gun fire, but with the maximum gun fire available to the upper rear hemisphere.  As the upper rear hemisphere is most favorable to pursuit attack, the formation is as narrow laterally as is consistent with concentration of de- fensive machine gun fire, to make difficult the simultaneous attack by large numbers of pursuit airplanes from this angle. Thus, a bombardment group formation of four squadrons can be easily flown within an area 500 feet wide and 1,000 feet long. It will be most difficult for an equal or superior number of pursuit airplanes to launch a coordinated, concentr