y to obtain a favorable ratio of fighters to bombers when the bombers had the initiative.  Unfortunately, neither Hopkins nor his fellow ACTS faculty appear to have been aware of the implications the recent advent of radar would have on air defenses. Hopkins'’s lecture was, in fact, delivered just as the British were completing the installation of the early-warning radars to their Chain Home air defense system, an addition that proved critical to the RAF Fighter Com- mand’s victory in the Battle of Britain.  Together, these two lectures provide the justification for the ACTS belief that  116 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  the offense would dominate the defense in the air domain. Air Corps ef- forts should therefore be focused on designing and building large numbers of bombers at the expense of pursuit aircraft. The next chapter considers the operational requirements in terms of bombers, bomb load, and bomber ac- curacy for conducting high-altitude daylight precision bombing.  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombardment  The ACTS faculty did not anticipate the impact radar would have on the offense-defense balance for aerial combat. Instead they worked on the op- erational requirements for a heavy bomber, made manifest in the B-17, to effectively conduct high-altitude daylight precision bombardment. In com- bat, bombers were compelled to fly at high altitudes due to the lethality of enemy anti-aircraft fire. This adjustment, however, introduced the significant challenge of bombing accuracy. Only a highly precise bombsight, such as the Norden Mark I, could deliver bombs from near-stratospheric altitudes with the requisite precision. Estimating the accuracy of the average bombardier, the challenge for air planners became that of determining the number of bombs and bombers to assign in order to destroy a target with a reasonable degree of certainty.  PRACTICAL BOMBING PROBABILITIES  The lecture by Captain Laurence Kuter, “Practical Bombing Probabilities, gi