raids as were then practicable was considerable. With the greater numbers of aircraft, the larger carrying capacity and range, and the heavier bombs available today, the effect would seriously impede the work of the enemy’s Navy, Army and Air Forces. Each raid spreads far outside the actual zone of the attack. Once a raid has been experienced false alarms are incessant and a state of panic remains in which work comes to a standstill. Of one town in the last war it is recorded that although attacked only seven times, and that by small formations, no less than 107 alarms were sounded, and work abandoned for the day. Each alarm by day brings day’s work to an end—while by night the mere possibility of a raid destroys the chance of sleep for thousands.  ‘These effects, it must be remembered, were produced by occasional raids by very minor forces. The effect on the workers of a Nation of an intensive air campaign will again be infinitely greater than if the main part of that air attack was launched at the enemy’s aerodromes and aeroplanes which may be many miles away from the vital points, and, if this air pressure is kept up, it will help to bring about the results that Marshal Foch summed up in the words “The potentialities of aircraft attacks on a large scale are almost incal- culable, but it is clear that such attack, owing to its crushing moral effect on a Nation, may impress the public opinion to a point of disarming the Govern- ment and thus becoming decisive.”  Turis FoRM OF WARFARE Is INEVITABLE  Ihave stated above the object which an Air Force should pursue in war, and the reasons on which the Air Staff base their contention that this object is in full accord with the principles of war, is in conformity with the laws of war, and is the best object by which to reach victory.  ‘There is another side to the matter upon which I must lay stress. There can be no question, whatever views we may hold in regard to it, that this form of warfare will be used.  There may be