ps over this country have been set down in some detail as a matter of historical record. The reader cannot fail to have been struck by the comparative ineffectiveness of the attacks, but it would be misleading to lay stress on the direct results. It should be remembered that the primary duty of the Zep-  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 53  pelins, and one which they splendidly fulfilled, was reconnaissance work over the North Sea, and that the raids on Great Britain used up only a minor part of their time and energies. Yet had the Zeppelins been built and maintained solely for the raids, it must be admitted that, from a purely military standpoint, they would more than have justified the money and ingenuity that went to their building. The threat of their raiding potentialities compelled us to set up at home a formidable organization which diverted men, guns, and aeroplanes from more important theatres of war. By the end of 1916 there were specifically retained in Great Britain for home anti-aircraft defence 17,341 officers and men. There were twelve Royal Flying Corps squadrons, comprising approximately 200 officers, 2,000 men, and 110 aeroplanes. The anti-aircraft guns and searchlights were served by 12,000 officers and men who would have found a ready place, with continuous work, in France or other war theatres. There was an observer corps of officers and men, and, in addition, some part of the energies of the police force and of the personnel of the tele- phone, fire brigade, and ambulance services was diverted to home defence activities.  And it must be remembered that this considerable force had to be kept in a high state of readiness all over the country, that it was, as it were, on constant active service against an enemy who, enjoying the advantages of the initiative, came from his sheds to raid when he chose.  ‘There were many other effects of the raids, real and powerful, but difficult to assess. When raids were in progress, or even threatened, vital war wor