ommons.  France and England are both building gas- and bomb-proof shelters on a tremendous scale. In Paris the subways are being utilized in many places, and sections that will accommodate as many as 5,000 persons are being blocked off and rendered gas- and bomb-proof. Building regulations and laws have been placed in effect in these countries to require the inclusion of gas- and bomb-proof chambers in new buildings that are to be erected in the future. You will remember from the Antiaircraft Defense course the extensive prepa- rations for air attacks that have been instituted in Great Britain by the Air Raid Precautions Department.  I mention all these indications because they are proof positive that those nations that are today in a position where they may be subjected to direct attack by Air Warfare, quite evidently feel that at least a considerable portion of that attack will be directed against the civil population.  ‘That such an event is a distinct possibility is not open to question. There is, however, considerable question that this method of attack is the best and most efficient method. This point is recognized to some extent by the Euro- pean nations referred to and we find them, not only taking all the steps they consider feasible to afford protection to their civilian populations, but also employing means of passive defense to provide the greatest possible protec- tion to other parts of their national structures as well.  Now is the direct attack of the civilian population the best method of bringing pressure to bear upon a hostile nation so as to achieve our aim in war by means of Air Warfare? There is no positive answer to this question since it has never been tried as yet against any highly integrated major na- tion. However, the School does not believe it to be so.  In the first place, the direct attack of civilian populations is most repug-  142 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  nant to our humanitarian principles, and certainly it is a me