knowledges that, while a bomber formation will likely take casualties, training and the determined will of the commander will propel the bombers to their destination.  Driving Home the Bombardment Attack Kenneth Walker October 1930  When a bombardment unit clears its airdromes with a mission of destroying a vital objective deep within a hostile territory, it will be opposed vigorously by the enemy’s defense forces; the hostile pursuit aviation and antiaircraft artillery.’ The unit will be confronted with a task no more difficult than that    88 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Kenneth Walker, circa 1930.  which confronts the infantry when it jumps off on a well-planned and coor- dinated attack. As the infantry receives the support of other ground arms, so does the bombardment unit receive the support, either special or general, from the other classes of aviation—observation, attack and pursuit, neces- sary to drive home the bombardment attack. In examining the tactics which a bombardment unit will employ to insure its arrival over and the attack of the objective, it will be found that this class of aviation operates at high altitudes and low; by day and by night; in formation and by series of single airplanes.  A brief review of bombardment organization and equipment may assist somewhat in the understanding of the present accepted bombardment tac- tics. Bombardment aviation is organized into squadrons, groups and wings. Two or more combat squadrons with a service squadron and other auxil- iary units compose a group; two or more groups with necessary auxiliary units compose a wing. Each squadron is equipped with thirteen airplanes, of which a maximum of ten are expected to be always in commission. The group, with four combat squadrons, for example, is expected to put a maxi- mum of forty airplanes in the air.  The number of squadrons which will operate against a particular target  The Bomber Always Gets Through 89  will depend upon the type of objective and