teams approaching the target, perhaps under fire, making one quick sighting operation, dropping bombs, and rap-  124 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  idly leaving the zone of fire. This tactical bombing is most certainly a far cry from the conditions under which the bombing recorded in these tables was accomplished. Again, from this viewpoint of method of bombing and meth- od of approach, there should have been a very great increase in these errors.  In discussing weather conditions, visibility, turbulence of air, and so forth, we know that all of this bombing was performed in the daytime. We know that the Annual Bombing and Gunnery Matches are conducted in con- ditions of at least good wind condition and very good visibility. On at least one occasion these bombing teams waited for several days for these condi- tions to arise.  Considering the airplanes and their speeds, from which this particular bombing was accomplished, and the airplanes and speeds that we now dis- cuss in bombing tactics, we find the old airplane a large, sturdy ship, cruising over the bombing range at from 65 to 80 miles per hour. The bombardier had all the time in the world to accomplish the sighting operation. We now talk freely of speeds well over 100 miles an hour in excess of that bombing speed. Once more, considering speed in airplanes, we can more justly increase these errors than arbitrarily reduce them.  All bombing done in this old Table 4.1 was accomplished with the D-1 and D-4 bomb sights. These bomb sights were technically entitled “the pen- dulous timing sights.” The bombing we are doing now and the bombing we count on in the near future, is accomplished by the Mk. I bomb sight, a gy- roscopic synchronizing sight. Is the Mk. I bomb sight, in itself, sufficiently more accurate than the D-1 and D-4 bomb sights to outweigh all these con- siderations—training, altitude, approach, speed, airplane, and weather—and still permit us to emerge with the belief that we can hit anyth