e, security, simplicity, and coopera- tion—were concerned with the employment of military forces. Wilson criti- cized the study of unchanging principles for ignoring how the weapons and methods of warfare change over time. He instead argued that airmen were better served by considering three fundamental factors: the end desired, the means available, and the application of those means.  Principles of War Lieutenant Colonel Donald Wilson 1939-1940  Gentlemen:  This morning we continue our search to find the rruTH.?  In fact this whole series of conferences which we group under the head- ing of AiR WARFARE is devoted to that type of search.  If we are to develop sound strategical conceptions for the employment of Air Power, we must know with complete honesty and impartiality just what the nature of future warfare is likely to become.  To visualize the steady march of military progress, we must conduct our search with an open and unbiased mind.  In yesterday's conference Major Fairchild began the treatment of these important basic considerations by introducing the subject of Air Power—the immediate ability of a nation to wage air warfare—that kind of warfare which we believe marks the beginning of a far-reaching fundamental change in the means and methods of waging war.  Our next step must be to briefly examine those concepts of the nature and conduct of war which have been developed as a result of the study of suc- cessful and unsuccessful traditional methods of warfare. Surely if we can find    60 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Donald Wilson, circa 1945.  the basic truths concerning war, we can learn them and can hope to avoid the mistakes of our predecessors. This is encouraging, and we dig into military writings with a feeling that we are on the right track. We therefore turn our attention first to an analysis of these methods of past warfare which have been passed down to us under the familiar heading—“The Principles of War.”  “The Principles of War are