e old one about 35 million. They con- nect with the supply reservoirs of Manhattan but do not cross to Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island, except through the Hill View reservoir connection with the Catskill system. On account of the lower level of the Croton system all water must be pumped except that of the lowest levels of the city. The Catskill system delivers water to all its distribution reservoirs by gravity. All of the Long Island subsidiary supply must, of course, be pumped.  As has been indicated, the aqueducts themselves are quite vulnerable to bombs. The Catskill aqueduct would naturally be cut between the Ken- sico reservoir and the Hill View reservoir, which contains but one day’s sup- ply. This operation should not be difficult with a 28-foot-wide aqueduct of practically unlimited length. While the Croton aqueducts are smaller they are equally vulnerable to small bombs and it should be quite possible to cut them.  [The accompanying chart showing the effect of cutting aqueducts is also missing.]  What would happen if these aqueducts were cut? We find that there would still be enough water available for drinking purposes but that it would be quite impossible to distribute it. Thus, while Brooklyn would be fairly well off, Manhattan, the Bronx, and Staten Island would be in a very bad condition. Mr. Nelson, engineer of the Department of Water Supply of New York City, estimated that it would be impossible to evacuate the city of New York under these circumstances, in time to prevent a considerable death toll due to thirst, on account of the complete lack of adequate distribution facili- ties from the small Brooklyn supply. The influence on sanitation and public health would be of the most serious nature and, in addition, the fire hazard in certain sections would be very great. While the two high pressure fire sys- tems have an auxiliary salt water supply, these cover only the congested areas of lower Manhattan and Brooklyn. Sixty-six fires a day ordinarily