s the principles of war and quotations and maxims from the ancient great, have caused the loss of more battles, the deaths of more men, the stultification of more thinking, than treason, cowardice, or stupidity.  It is evil to approach war with fixed ideas; that is, without an open and flexible mind, but it is certain to lead to disaster to approach it with the inapplicable formulas of the past.'*  Gentlemen, approaching our study of the proper application of Air Pow- er with open minds and with a complete disregard for the catchwords and slogans of the past, we will proceed in our next few conferences to investigate this matter of the proper application of Air Power in the light of these basic factors:  1. The end desired. 2. The means available. 3. The application of the means.  Are there any questions or comments?  COMMENTS ON “PRINCIPLES OF WAR”  Wilson rejected the conventional military view on teaching the principles of war as previously practiced at the school.'* He instead argued that technol-  72 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  ogy invalidated “immutable” principles and cited historical examples of how the English longbow in the 14th century, the machine gun and submarine in World War I and, most recently, German air power in Poland in 1939 had changed the nature of warfare. In the section on the principle of the of- fensive, however, Wilson paradoxically criticized the French in World War I for their obsession with the offensive, but then concluded that the offensive in fact remained the predominant characteristic of air power. In the end, the only backing for his claim was the school’s corporate belief that this was so. Still, the lecture is an important contribution for its emphasis on connecting means to ends: how massed offensive air action could lead to desirable politi- cal outcomes.  THE AIM IN WAR  Captain Haywood Hansell’s lecture “The Aim in War” expands upon Wil- son's discussion on ends, ways, and means by specifying that war is a me