ng campaign based on high-altitude daylight precision bombing.  In the chapters that follow, lectures from the Air Corps Tactical School are presented as they were given to the airmen who would soon lead the USAAF in World War II. Fortunately for us, ACTS policy in the late 1930s re- quired instructors to type out each lecture and have the transcript approved before its presentation. As a result, these lectures, given at a time when the Air Corps had matured its thinking on strategic bombing, have been pre- served word perfect, exactly as recited to the future combat leaders of the US- AAE. They have never been published heretofore and, unlike the secondary sources written after World War II, collectively introduce ex ante evidence of Air Corps thinking on strategic bombing during the interwar period. These lectures provide an invaluable resource for air power theorists and practitio- ners, as well as for security study scholars, to better understand the views of American airmen on the role of air power in World War II.  ‘The following chapters have been gleaned from dozens of lectures given over the years at the Air Corps Tactical School. In chapters 1 to 6, nine lec- tures and an article present a uniquely American vision of strategic bombing by high-altitude daylight precision bombing. The airplane had changed the nature of war. An independent air force in being during peace would be de- cisive in war by massing formations of self-defending bombers to overfly de-  32 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  fenses and precisely strike the enemy’s vital and vulnerable economic nodes. ‘The strategic paralysis that would ensue would prevent the enemy from the production of the materials required to wage modern warfare and deprive civilians of the goods necessary to survive. Unable to defend or feed itself, the enemy population would soon lose the will to resist. Chapter 7 assesses how well this theory of HADPB held up to the reality of combat by examin- ing US air