ths. Their office is in the basement of this building, just off the Reproduction Section’s rooms and I am sure if you will find the office, Doctor Heinecke at any time will interrupt his work and explain what they are doing with courtesy, if not with pleasure.  Colonel Sorenson has taken a very active interest in the supervision of this Section.° Early in May he hopes to have in his hands the first specific and obviously worthwhile results from this section. At that time we plan on having Colonel Sorenson present to you the first findings of this Research Section.  Meanwhile we are concerned about impatience. We know that one should not allow the analysis of bombing results to drift for twenty years and then expect to make up for all neglected opportunities in the next few months. This Research Section costs the Air Corps several thousands of dol- lars per year. We know there are many projects that the Air Corps would like to carry on with such funds. Given time we believe this section may, to a large extent, affect a “marked reduction in mean probable error,’ not unlike that investigated in Practical Bombing Probabilities Problem No. 2. However, even if this section accomplishes no more than the equivalent of increasing the effective strength of the GHQ Air Force by one B-17 airplane, the funds saved by that accomplishment would be sufficient to sustain this Section for 25 years. We hope that you will hear more detailed information on this sub- ject in May.  At this point we may conclude that we have not reduced the mean prob- able error as it probably could have been reduced in the past few years but we have not been asleep on this subject. With the continued receipt of usable, carefully prepared bombing records it may be possible in the immediate fu- ture to isolate some of the error contributing to the bombing probable error and to eliminate or reduce many of them.  Many of you have listened to or participated in recent Air Corps discus-  132 LECTURES OF THE AIR