of contact. As a general rule newly designed and higher powered engines usually are placed in pursuit airplanes before being installed in the larger aircraft. It is the consensus of opinion of good airplane designers that given an engine, a  The Bomber Always Gets Through 111  four-engined bombardment airplane can be designed with a high speed very close to that of any single engine pursuit interceptor, to speeds well within 10%. It is not too much to say that future development at the Materials Divi- sion visualize a bombing airplane with a range of 4,000 miles, powered by four 2,000 H.P. engines capable of a high speed at 20,000 feet of between 380 and 400 miles per hour. It is recognized, therefore, that the single engine pursuit airplane must give way to a twin-engined interceptor type, say the XF-38, in order to regain the speed superiority necessary. These high bomber speeds have brought forth in Europe a new interest in the time fuse bomb for bombing bombardment formations and has aroused a discussion of the pos- sibilities of ramming by pursuit.  ‘There is the third and last factor that we must consider—the influence of time, position and the number of objectives to be defended. Herein lies the weakness of the tactical defensive. This is the most important factor not only as regards the ability of pursuit aviation to intercept but also the ability of pursuit aviation to build a defense on any sort of a broad scale which insures a numeri- cal superiority that would make air force operations unprofitable.  Let us assume that we wish to defend a city with pursuit airplanes.  Let us assume that in conducting that defense we wish to engage all en- emy forces in combat with a numerical superiority of 1.5 to 1, a figure which we will assume may result in 10% striking force losses. We accept this as merely a general figure.  The method by which we employ our pursuit airplanes will vary with the position of the city to be defended. Let us assume that the entire frien