fted the offense-defense bal- ance in favor of the defense that daylight unescorted bombing raids would have proven unsustainable. The following summer of 1944 was likewise a lost opportunity for Eighth Air Force to test HADPB. It was at this point that  208 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  General Eisenhower took control of Allied targeting selection in preparation for the Allied invasion of Europe. Not until the end of September 1944 did Eighth Air Force regain its authority to select targets and refocus its attention on dismantling the German economy.  In addition to failing to anticipate the impact of enemy defenses and weather on their ability to conduct HADPB, ACTS theorists underestimated the resiliency of the German economy and population. In 1941, AWPD plan- ners had assumed the German economy was operating at maximum capac- ity. This was not the case, however, as Germany had not yet fully mobilized and thus had the slack to absorb the impact of air strikes. It would require repeated strikes to keep factories offline. The Germans further anticipated Allied air strikes by dispersing production, which increased costs and de- creased total potential output but did not significantly curtail production. Vital and vulnerable economic nodes proved more difficult to identify, at- tack, and reattack than anticipated. Not until the winter of 1944-1945 did airstrikes effectively dismantle the German transportation system, which then finally led to economic collapse.”*  A final assumption of HADPB theory was that the dislocation of the wartime economy would deny the enemy the means to continue fighting and, paired with the economic suffering of the population, would compel Germany to sue for peace. ACTS theorists, however, had underestimated the resolve of the German population, or at least the strength of the Nazi regime to control its citizens. The collapse of the economy did not, in fact, bring about an end to the war as ACTS theorists had expected, nor di