e preceding year been assembling and preparing that character of data essential to such a plan as AWPD/1.  7. The entire plan was predicated upon the best determination possible of the mission and the means required with which to accomplish it. Improving this information the calculation of equipment was calculated.  8. After determination of the aircraft was reached it was then necessary to tabulate all related aviation material. A representative of the A-4 Division proceeded to Dayton with officers called in from there for instruction and this latter information was compiled at Wright Field.  9. On August 11, the study was completed and on that date was presented orally in brief to the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-3, and to principal assis- tants who indicated general concurrence. The Chief, Army Air Force, was informed that the study was ready for his consideration.  10. On August 13, the study was presented orally to Mr. Lovett, General Ar- nold, Assistant Chief of the Air Staff WPD, and the Chief of Air Staff.  11. On August 22, the study was again presented to General Brett, General Fairchild, and Colonels Bundy, Wilson and Chauncey of Plans Division. On August 30, study was presented to General Marshall, Mr. W. A. Har- riman, General Arnold, General Fairchild, and Colonel Bundy. Within an  AWPD-1 251  hour after the presentation of the study, the AWPD was informed that General Marshall had approved the study and had written “O.K. GOM” under General Arnold’s signature on the original copy.  12. While it was intended to present this study thru the War Plans Division of the General Staff which had been provided copies of the study thru Colonel Bissell, it was presented directly by General Arnold to General Marshall. On September 4th, the study was presented to the principal of- ficers of the OPM including Messrs. Knudson, Harrison, Batt, Johnston, Heigs, Britton, and Bigger. These officials were accompanied by Gener- als Marshall and Arnold. On September 11, Mr. S