. Further, the B-29’s combat range of 1,600 miles doubled that of the B-17, with triple the bomb load, to boot.® The leap in service ceiling, speed, range, and bomb load came at a high price, however, as the program ended up costing $3 billion, making it the most expensive weapon system of the war, well above the $2.1 billion spent on the Manhattan Project.* With such an enormous outlay of resources, the USAAF desperately needed the new bomber to play a major role in the defeat of Japan. In light of the indeci- sive results of strategic bombing in Europe, airmen’s dreams of an indepen- dent air force now rested with the B-29.  Unfortunately, the USAAF did not similarly invest in a new precision bombsight. Like its predecessors, the B-29 utilized the Norden, which proved inadequate for the HADPB of Japan for three reasons. First, similar to weath- er patterns in western Europe, clouds frequently obscured the Japanese isles. While the B-29 was equipped with the APQ-13 radar as a weather backup,  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombing in World War II 219  similar to the H2X on the B-17, the air-to-ground radar was suitable only for area bombing. Second, Norden’s telescopic sight was not designed for the extreme slant ranges confronted when dropping bombs from above 30,000 feet. To hit their targets, aircrew were compelled to descend to lower altitude, making them susceptible to enemy flak and fighters. Third, the jet stream encountered over Japan was much stronger and at lower altitudes than that over Europe, with winds frequently above 120 miles per hour and exceeding both the limits of the Norden bombsight and the capability of even the most seasoned bombardier.”  To avoid being diverted to other priorities by theater commanders, as had happened in Europe when bombers were diverted to support the North Africa Campaign, all B-29s were assigned to 20th Air Force, headquartered in Washington, DC, and commanded by the chief of the USAAF, General Hap Arnold. Arnold plan