ncipal of- ficers of the OPM including Messrs. Knudson, Harrison, Batt, Johnston, Heigs, Britton, and Bigger. These officials were accompanied by Gener- als Marshall and Arnold. On September 11, Mr. Stimson called Colonels George and Walker and Major Kuter into his office for about an hour and a half of information discussion of the study. He implied his approval as a practicable project only if the nation were at war. On September 12, the study was presented to Mr. Stimson and Mr. McCloy. Following this presentation, the study was again presented to 27 key members of the air Staff, OCAC, and Air Force Combat Command.  13. On September 15, the study was presented to Colonel W. M. Donovan, Chief of Intelligence for the President and General Spaatz. Since that date, until the final compilation by the WPD General Staff “Army and Navy Es- timate of U.S. Over-All Production Requirements” representatives of the AWPD conferred with Colonel Scobey of the Joint Board in preparation of the above.  Appendix 3 AWPD-42  THE WHITE HOUSE WASHINGTON  August 24, 1942 SECRET MEMORANDUM FOR GENERAL MARSHALL:  I wish you would ask General Arnold to submit to you his judgment of the number of combat aircraft by types which should be produced for the Army and our Allies in this country in 1943 in order to have complete air ascendency over the enemy.  ‘This report should be prepared without consideration for existing sched- ules or production possibilities or any other competing military require- ments. I am asking for this because I would like to know what the theoretical requirements are to get complete control and domination of the air.  I realize fully, however, that there are limiting factors to the creation of air power, such as the availability of pilots, high octane gas, transportation and the competition of other essential critical munitions of war. Hence, I would like you and Admiral King to submit a second schedule based on these realities and the proper relationship of air pow