es all the more serious as the capacity of the force and the range of choice as to its employment, increases. In the ground arms courses you were given many rather definite principles to go on and historical examples of their appli- cation were, or could have been, advanced to support them. After a great war in which air power plays a major part it will probably be quite possible to give a similar set of principles covering the conduct of Air Warfare. At this time, however, it seems necessary to examine the whole subject of the application of air power in order to provide a proper background from which we may try and deduce the correct principles of employment, and the correct choice of objectives, for our air forces in the situations with which we may be confronted.  I should like to stress the great importance of this study—the importance of reaching a correct strategical conception of the employment of air power in general and, of course, of our own air power in particular. It is obvious that the aircraft that we design and build are constructed in accordance with our ideas of what their proper employment should be. Therefore, the powers and limitations of our air force are determined in advance, by our conceptions of how it should be employed.    ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 49  You all know how long it takes to produce modern aircraft even if re- design to meet new requirements is unnecessary. The characteristics of the existing or M-Day air force cannot be materially altered within a year—if not longer.  It is very apparent that if we have had the wrong strategical conception of employment, and have developed an air force which cannot cope on equal terms with an enemy having a sounder strategical conception of employ- ment—the results may be disastrous. Therefore, let us recognize the fact that developing a sound strategical concept of employment for our air forces is not alone a matter of importance for future Air Force commanders, on and after a vague and n