le, while the defender had the burden of operating an air defense sys- tem over a wide territory that made it difficult to react in time and with ad- equate force.*  Sherman diverged from Douhet, however, by anticipating that nations might be deterred, at least initially, from bombing civilians for fear of retali- ation. Instead, Sherman focused on the nature of modern militaries and the vital supply system required to feed, arm, and supply them. Bombers could overfly enemy forces and attack this supply chain, the most logical target be- ing enemy industrial centers. Unlike Trenchard, who would target the morale of the workers through dispersed area bombing, and Mitchell, who made no distinction as to which targets were most important, Sherman prioritized the targeting of key facilities that could paralyze an enemy’s military production. He described industry as a “complex system of interlocking factories, each of which makes only its allotted part of the whole. ... Accordingly in the major- ity of industries, it is necessary to destroy certain elements of the industry only, in order to cripple the whole. . . . On the declaration of war, these key plants should be made the objective of a systematic bombardment?“  Sherman's ideas were not entirely original, as the targeting of key indus- tries could be traced back to Gorrell’s strategic bombing plan from World War I. Still, this notion of air power independently targeting the vital and vulnerable nodes of an enemy nation’s military industrial complex would form the central tenet of the ACTS strategic bombing theory.  ACTS struggled during the 1920s from a lack of resources and qualified faculty. Asa result, only 217 officers graduated from the school while it oper- ated at Langley Field from 1921 to 1931. Only with the expansion of the Air Corps in 1927 did class size begin to increase, going from 15 graduates to 39 by 1931. Likewise, Langley Field could not physically accommodate both ACTS and the new flying squadro