st weekly how accurate the Mark I bomb sight is, how many bombs it takes to hit a battleship, and other very short and simple questions. The source of these very clear, very direct, and very embarrassing questions is frequently some imposing personage ranging from the Commandant of the Command    High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombardment 121  vivid conclusion that we cannot be sure of success without paying heavily for overwhelming odds. Had we been satisfied with an 80% chance of success, our force required could be cut 27%—down to 320 bombs. If we could have accepted a 50% chance of success, we might have reduced our force 69% and dropped 138 bombs. Here it is evident that a reduction in percent chance of success required will permit a proportionately greater reduction in size force requirement. When we go down 10% in chance of success we reduce our force 27%. This is an effective method of reducing the strength require- ment. Unfortunately, this is obviously an impractical method of avoiding our bombing inaccuracy restriction. We cannot recommend accepting worse odds as a method of increasing effectiveness. Those two methods—choosing favorable altitudes and not demanding high orders of success—are both ef- fective, and unfortunately, are equally impracticable.  In the first requirement in Practical Bombing Probabilities Problem No. 2 we investigated the effect of a drastic reduction in mean probable er- ror. We investigated the effect of a drastic increase in bombing accuracy. We found that a reduction of mean probable errors to % their former amount justified a reduction in size force required from ten squadrons to 1% squad- rons. Here our mean probable error was cut to % and our force requirement was simultaneously cut to %. Had we cut our mean probable error to %, our force requirement would have been cut to %. This, then, is the most effective method of reducing the strength requirement or of increasing the effectiveness of our available bombardment force.