, let us recognize the fact that developing a sound strategical concept of employment for our air forces is not alone a matter of importance for future Air Force commanders, on and after a vague and nebulous M-Day, it is a matter of pressing, immediate peacetime importance for every Air Corps officer today.  As an example of what an erroneous conception of the strategic employ- ment of a new means of action in war can mean, consider the effect on Great Britain of the German submarine campaign of the World War. Before the be- ginning of the World War the submarine was evaluated as being one of the minor means of naval action, and the full results of its use were altogether unforeseen. As a result the British were immediately forced by German sub- marine activity to move their main fleet north to new, and previously unpre- pared, bases. The British authorities have since stated that the declaration by Germany in 1917 of unlimited submarine warfare brought Great Britain with- in measurable distance of complete exhaustion of her food supplies and hence of complete defeat. In other words they finally almost lost the war, because their inadequate strategic conception delayed until almost too late the devel- opment of counter-measures to submarine attacks upon seaborne commerce.  ‘There is perhaps another lesson that might be drawn from this example. At the start of the war the Germans had only some twenty-seven submarines. Had they possessed several times this number with which to inaugurate the campaign there seems to be little doubt, in the light of results achieved, that it would have been successful. As it was, before they could accomplish their purpose, sufficiently effective counter-measures were developed to prevent accomplishment of that purpose. Let us remember then that not only must we have a proper strategic conception of how our means is to be employed, but we must see that the force provided has the capacity to accomplish our purpose. If we have not the capa