would also be best employed against the forces of its enemy. Fairchild presciently argues that, for cases in which an air force cannot reach an enemy’s national structure, as with the United States against Japan, a direct attack on enemy forces would be required to advance air basing to positions from which bombers could then reach the enemy’s homeland.  What to Target 181  Fairchild concludes his lecture by restating a final advantage to attacking national economic structure. Technologically sophisticated weapons were playing an increasingly important role in modern war. Paralyzing a nation’s wartime industrial production would prevent it from arming its military forces. Unless a country has sufficient forces in being at the outset of war, an attack on its national economic structure would deny the enemy both the capability to defend itself and the means to sustain its population. Such a situation would reduce the enemy’s hope of a military victory while simulta- neously imposing costs on its population for continued resistance.  Primary Strategic Objectives of Air Forces Major Muir S. Fairchild April 11, 1939  Gentlemen, in this course on Air Warfare we have been considering the background and underlying principles upon which correct decisions regard- ing the proper employment of air forces must be based.’ It may seem strange that we should find it necessary in this course to devote so much time to the study of objectives, while the courses in the ground arms are able to avoid the subject almost entirely. However, we must remember that the objectives of ground forces have been well established by long experience with these forces. They have a rather restricted field of choice in any event. As ground forces must be forever concerned with the holding and occupation of terri- tory, their objectives must continue to be largely topographical.  When we visualize the employment of air forces, however, we imme- diately find before us a heterogeneous collection of minor ob