cial system,—though undoubtedly disintegrating,—had done so less rapidly than those of the other side. But of what profit would be such a victory? The vanquished side  42 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  surely could not pay adequate reparations, because it would be like a sponge from which the last drop of water has been squeezed. With the delicate and intricate economic system of the world of today there can be no prosperity while the major nations of the world are suffering from economic paralysis; and so the objective of peace would be to restore the national health of all the belligerents—to repair the ravages of the disease: war.  Certainly it is not difficult for intelligent people to appreciate that the more speedily a war is over and the world can revert to its normal peace-time pursuits, the better it is for the entire world. Common sense dictates that ev- ery means should be employed which will bring wars between major powers to a conclusion within the shortest possible time and thus lessen the effect of the destruction of life and property and the disruption of the economic sys- tem. There is no other course if the preservation of civilization is worthwhile.  Surely, we can conclude that it is to the advantage of civilization and in the interest of the prosperity and happiness of nations to change the past method of waging war if such a change is possible. Whether future wars will be like those of the past, i.e., wars of absolute destruction, only the future will tell. However, it looks as though science has given to man a method of wag- ing war differently.  Has modern civilization reduced or increased the vulnerability of na- tions? I have tried in the limited period to show that the real objective of war is to force the will of one nation upon that of another,—to break down the hostile will to resist.  ‘There is plenty of indication that modern nations are interdependent not so much for the essentials of life as for those “non-essentials” ne