f the national economic structure, should be a detailed plan of attack—a plan of actual operations.  Such war plans may well have been prepared for the operation of some of Europe's great air forces. There, definite and well recognized enemies, with highly organized economic structures, lie completely within the tactical ra-  Vital and Vulnerable 147  dius of action of opposing air forces. The respective economic structures, with their vital and most vulnerable links, are well known to enemy nations.  In this country none of these conditions exist at present and such war plans, of course, have not been drawn.  In order to get some idea of what such a war plan would be like and how we should go about preparing it, let us devote the time this morning to attempting an analysis of a national economic structure. Lack of time and talent necessarily will result in a very sketchy analysis at best. Therefore let us choose for this analysis that country with which we are all most familiar—the United States—and try and place ourselves in the shoes of the enemy that contemplates bringing the attack against us.  With a subject as broad as this we could spend a great deal of time, and still not arrive at the final answer. Consequently we will not try and reach definite conclusions, but will merely hit a few of the high spots and see what we get out of it. If we should be able to put a finger on any weaknesses in this industrial giant of ours—whose sources of raw materials are unsurpassed— whose production facilities are unequaled—we can understand better what the possibilities of air attack may mean to less fortunate nations who have not been so bountifully endowed with resources and facilities.  Let us take up, first of all, a very brief consideration of our geographical advantages in relation to the other great powers.  It must be realized that except for Russia, this country is the only indus- trialized power built on continental proportions. We enjoy, therefore, unique super-