lysis. As a result, if three hostile airplane carriers were to appear off our coast today, no Bombardment Group commander, no Wing commander, nor any higher military headquarters has any sound basis upon which to determine whether he should dispatch all his bombardment airplanes against one carrier, or whether each carrier might be attacked, or whether a small portion of the bom-  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombardment  bardment aviation available would be a sufficient force to accom- plish the desired results.  b. BOMBARDMENT EQUIPMENT AND TECHNIQUE.—At Aberdeen Proving Ground an effort is being made to provide firing tables from the results of necessarily few bombs. The problem of preparing these tables is of considerably greater magnitude than preparing a similar table for a piece of artillery. Throughout the Army Air Corps tens of thousands of bombs are being dropped annually. These bombs could provide data from which firing tables of unquestioned accu- racy could be produced. No study is being conducted to determine the source of the errors that compose the bombing probable error. No effort is being made to isolate these errors with a view to their reduction or elimination, and yet a reduction of these errors may operate to the same effect as doubling or tripling the number of the bombardment units now existing.  3. REMEDIAL ACTION.  a. In order to remedy the serious impairment to the efficient em- ployment of bombardment aviation, and the logical development of its tactics, technique, and equipment, described in the preceding paragraph, immediate action should be taken to organize a section whose duty is the analysis of bombing records.  b. The duties of this section should be: (1) To determine the type and magnitude of current bombing errors. (2) To determine the causes of bombing errors and the means of their elimination or reduction.  c. The steps to be taken in the accomplishment of these two in- vestigations are quite similar and can properly be und