esland. In 1922, the school was renamed the Air Service Tacti- cal School. Its commandant, Major Thomas Milling, and his assistant, Ma- jor William Sherman, developed a nine-month curriculum that included air tactics as well as more generic staff duties. In 1923, the course added a flying program with morning classroom instruction followed by the practical ap- plication of the lessons in the air in the afternoon."  In July 1926, the recommendations of the Morrow Board led Congress to redesignate the Air Service as the Air Corps, giving the school its new name: the Air Corps Tactical School. Congress further authorized the expansion of the Air Corps over five years, though the Great Depression severely con- strained the funds made available to do so.  Though airmen envisioned the independent employment of air power, army doctrine remained conventional in its dictates. Army Training Regu- lation 440-15, “Fundamental Principles of Employment of the Air Service” (January 1926), had declared the purpose of air power as strictly the support of land forces. Within the Air Corps, there grew a disconnect between of- ficial army doctrine and what ACTS was teaching, particularly with regard to bombardment. The strategic bombing theory that emerged during these early years of ACTS is best expressed by Major William Sherman, who wrote the first bombardment text for the school, publishing it as a book titled Air Warfare in 1926.  Sherman, like Douhet, Trenchard, and Mitchell, believed that, unlike surface forces, air power was inherently offensive in nature, with victory the result of the application of superior force at the decisive time and location. On the offense, the attacker had the advantage of choosing the time and place  20 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  for battle, while the defender had the burden of operating an air defense sys- tem over a wide territory that made it difficult to react in time and with ad- equate force.*  Sherman diverged from Douhet, howe