es alone make its continuation possible. If these are taken away it will no longer be possible for a city like New York to exist.  I think our analysis has been carried far enough to illustrate how we should go about planning the air attack of a great city, should we ever be called upon to undertake such a job. Incidentally, I think, it has resulted in a rather graphic picture of the vulnerability of a typical great city to planned air attack.  Let us sincerely hope that in the event a hostile air force ever comes with- in striking distance of New York City, that it will be directed by one of those outstanding military thinkers who is perfectly sure that air offensives against great cities can never be effective.  Are there any questions or comments? Thank you.  CoMMENTs ON “NATIONAL ECONOMIC STRUCTURE” AND “New YorK INDUSTRIAL AREA”  “National Economic Structure” distinguished American thinking on strate- gic bombing from that of the Europeans by deeming Douhet’s emphasis on bombing civilians not only immoral but, moreover, ineffective. Air opera- tions in Spain and China indicated that the resolve of the population, once stiffened, was not easily swayed. By contrast, ACTS emphasized attacking a modern industrial nation’s infrastructure to reduce the enemy’s capacity to wage war while simultaneously applying economic pressure on the popula- tion. ACTS faculty, like other interwar military theorists, were heavily influ- enced by how World War I ended. Douhet believed that the direct bombing  178 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  of cities would cause the collapse of the will of the enemy population, as had happened in Germany. Fairchild, however, argued that the collapse of the en- emy’s will would be best achieved by bombing an enemy’s wartime economy. The cumulative effect of aerial bombardment would more efficiently reduce the enemy's material means to fight than that of conventional land battle, while simultaneously subjecting the population to severe e