he same is true to a great extent of Paris, which is the heart of France.  It might well be, then, that the great city would turn out to be the most important and vulnerable element in the country of our prospective enemy, when we come to make our analysis; or it might be, that pressure applied to  166 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  the great city would be the final and deciding factor found to be necessary, in addition to the attack of some other vital elements. In any event so much has been written and said about the attack of cities which the School believes to be quite erroneous that it seems well worthwhile to clarify our ideas on this subject.  ‘Therefore, this morning we will attempt to analyze the elements of a great city. We will try and select the vital points, get some idea of their vul- nerability to air attack, and estimate the effects that might be expected from a properly planned and successfully executed air offensive. For the same rea- sons that yesterday we selected our own economic structure as an example, let us turn today to a consideration of New York City, as a typical great city. It is not intended to make out a case for the attack of New York City as a proper objective for air warfare against the United States. Our analysis yesterday in- dicated that other lines of attack would almost certainly be more profitable and conclusive. Since this might not be true in the case of other countries, what we are really concerned with this morning is an analysis of a great city by itself—what makes it great—what is necessary for its continued existence. If we can find this out, we should be able to apply our air offensive pressure most effectively, by directing our air attacks at the most vulnerable part of the city structure in a planned campaign whose results should be quick and decisive because each blow would augment and reinforce all the other blows to produce an accumulative effect.  Now taking New York City as a typical great city, let