s from four or five to one, that almost 100% losses could be expected by the invading bomber formations. It indicates that the DH-9 with its single flexible ma- chine gun covering a quarter of the firing hemisphere could expect from zero to 20% losses when matched with an equal number of pursuit.  We should try to arrive at some general conclusion as to the pursuit nu- merical superiority in air combat that may make air force operations relatively unprofitable. Let me repeat that statement because much of our further dis- cussion rests upon this point.  Let us try to set up some kind of assumptions. It was the experience of the World War and is still the basis of our War Procurement Plans that an average airplane replacement rate of 30% a month will be needed to sustain the efforts of our Army Air Corps. We sincerely hope this figure is too high for the operations of a striking force but due to the lack of better values we shall accept it. The logistics tables of this school and adopted by the GHQ Air Force are built upon an expected average of two-thirds of a mission a day, or twenty missions per month, a figure which we may believe high but which we will also accept without discussion.  What do these figures mean? They mean that we must keep the average losses of all kinds in twenty missions in a month to less than 30% or else ex- ceed our replacement rate. These figures mean that whenever we exceed 1% average losses per mission of the total force we are exceeding our replacement rate. They mean that if on the twenty missions per month if we exceed 30% losses of the total force, future air operations must on the whole be cut down and we are jeopardizing the sustained effect of air force employment. It is rather obvious that if on any series of missions the entire striking force suffers more than 10% losses on each mission that air operations will soon be very seri- ously curtailed. German air operations ceased against London when losses built up to 14%.  We will u