the essentials of economic prosperity. Italy lacked even the financial weapon for she was poverty stricken and faced with an annual and increasing deficit. She sought solution to her economic difficulties by a war of acquisition in Africa.  As for the second factor in National Policy: Security. France today, pos- sessed of the world’s second largest colonial empire, is desperately concerned for her security. Her policy is concerned with maintaining what she has.  We, ourselves, are concerned principally with security. We are concerned with keeping what we have acquired. Although we have less than 6 percent of the world’s population, and only approximately 6 percent of its territory, we own and control:  40 percent of the world’s gold  49 percent of the world’s copper  52 percent of the world’s lumber production 56 percent of the world’s cotton  67 percent of the world’s oil  And yet our internal prosperity is in large measure influenced by our foreign trade. That, too, we try to maintain in the face of competition. As an example of the conflict which rages in time of peace—consider the conflict of our policy with that of Japan in the Far East. Our policy demands the “Open Door” in China, as a market for our goods. Japanese policy is clearly directed toward commercial subjugation of China and the reservation of that vast  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 77  potential market for Japanese exploitation. At present the conflict between American and Japanese policies is being waged essentially by diplomatic and economic pressure. Whether or not the problem can be settled by peaceful means remains to be seen.  As for the third factor: Racial Unity, we have only to glance at the map of Eastern Europe to find a maze of races grouped into arbitrary, and often unwelcome, nationalities. People of the same race are prompted by a fun- damental urge to unite. They desire an autonomous government embracing all the people of their race. If they cannot find political freedom by peacefu