s the lead bombardiers squinted through their Norden bombsights during the crucial seconds prior to bomb release, the Luftwaffe fighters ignored the flak and attacked in waves to disrupt the accuracy of the weapons release.  Despite the intense defenses, many of the B-17s managed to hit their tar- get, with post-mission analysis assessing the southern half of the Focke-Wulf complex as severely damaged by ninety-two 1,000-pound bombs. Egressing off target, the bombers turned west back toward Wildeshausen, then off to Ahlhorn before turning north to go “feet wet” over the coast near Emden. ‘The Luftwaffe relentlessly pursued the bombers, letting up only 40 miles out over the North Sea when RAF Spitfires finally appeared.‘  ‘The strike force had succeeded in damaging its assigned target, but the price had been high, twice that paid on any previous mission. Eighth Air Force sacrificed 16 bombers (14% attrition), primarily to Luftwaffe fighters, and half of the returning aircraft suffered battle damage.’ All losses were suf- fered by the lead wing as the Luftwaffe chose frontal attacks on the lead for- mations to take advantage of known limitations with the B-17F’s nose gun.®  As for the aircrew, 159 did not return. An additionally painful blow was the loss of the crew of Invasion 2nd on its 24th mission. Oscar-winning director William Wyler had been filming the crew for several weeks for a war documentary on the first crew to reach 25 missions. Such heavy losses, coupled with the relentless clouds that returned to cloak Germany, forced a delay of nearly a month before American bombers could again attack the Wehrmacht. Though the Bremen raid prompted Eighth Air Force Fighter Command to request an additional twenty P-47 fighter groups, it would not be until February 1944, a full 10 months later, that long-range escorts were available.’    Introduction 3  Formation of B-17Fs of the 92nd Bombardment Group en route from England to Germany, circa 1943.  Compared to US bombers