reasonably sized air force has the capacity to cause a sufficient breakdown of transportation within this area to accomplish our purpose. While this is a fairly large subject, all the necessary information is available and, time permitting, it is quite possible to arrive at a definite answer.  However, time does not allow us to go into this question and still take up an even more interesting, and perhaps important aspect of the national economic structure—the question of POWER.  So as a final item in our very hasty and sketchy survey of the economic structure of the United States, let us now consider very briefly the fundamen- tal item of electric power.  Modern civilization is characterized by the general and increasing use of power and as our industries are now developed they are, perhaps, even more dependent on power than on men or specific materials. The physical limitations on the transmission of mechanical power restricts its use to in- dividual plants, making it of minor importance as compared with electric power. Because electric power is generated in large central plants and it can be distributed over a large area, it has great advantages over mechanical pow- er in cost and efficiency of operation. For these reasons electric power has now very largely supplanted direct connected mechanical power. Therefore, we need to consider only commercial electric power generated by the major    158 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  inter-connected groups of public service companies. This is the power which must be depended upon to furnish practically all of the processing power to convert basic materials into the finished articles required for war and to maintain our civilian population. According to the 1936 report of the Federal Power Commission, 55% of the total power used in all industrial manufac- turing processes throughout the United States is furnished by central public service electric companies.  Many establishments of the primary industries engaging