mbers could not, in fact, conduct unescorted offensive operations with acceptable losses against an integrated air defense  196 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  system. A fleet of bombers could not simply avoid enemy forces by overfly- ing the front, as strategic bombing advocates had claimed. While the static trench warfare of World War I may have been avoided, attritional battles were still being waged, this time in the skies.  Second, HADPB required good weather for precision strikes with the Norden bombsight. The device proved unusable for most of the year, with the exception of Germany's sunny short summer. The USAAF lost its window of opportunity to test HADPB in the summer of 1943. Too few bombers arrived to Eighth Air Force in England, the result of aircraft production delays and the diversion of aircraft to the Pacific and Mediterranean theaters.’ Eighth Air Force subsequently lost the summer of 1944 when ordered to interdict German transportation lines in France in support of the long-anticipated Al- lied invasion of Europe.  Third, the assumption that a wartime economy would be paralyzed by surgical strikes against a select set of vital and vulnerable nodes proved illu- sive. The resilient German economy was not as fragile as anticipated, in part because the Germans did not fully mobilize until 1943. Under the constant threat of day and night air raids, the Nazis prioritized and dispersed produc- tion facilities to maintain output. Economic collapse did not occur until the winter of 1944-1945. Rather than the culmination of select strikes against key economic nodes as anticipated by HADPB, however, the collapse was brought on by the systematic destruction of the entire German transporta- tion network.  Fourth, when the German economy finally did break down, it did not produce the decisive results ACTS theorists had expected. The Nazi regime maintained strict control over the population and, even when faced with eco- nomic ruin, the Germans conti