ir Power in terms of a few observation squadrons, protected by some local pursuit and backed up by a scattering of bombardment and attack airplanes to radically alter his conceptions in the face of the Air Power that has actually been brought into existence in the world today. We must not be misled as to the potentialities of modern Air Power by the present size of our own GHQ Air Force.  Having in mind the facts and figures presented to you during the Bom- bardment Course, you might attempt to visualize the potentialities of such a force when employed directly against a nation as well as against its armed forces of whatever type.  Now Air Power, such as we have been discussing, is capable of waging Air Warfare. By Air Warfare we mean air operations in which primary reliance for the accomplishment of a broad purpose is placed upon the independent employment of Air Power. This broad purpose does not necessarily mean winning the war all by itself. It may well be to further the ultimate strategic success of the surface forces. However, the concept of Air Warfare does not include air operations in direct assistance to the immediate tactical success of particular forces. Such air operations constitute operations in immediate sup- port, and will be treated under the heading later. Lest you get the impression at this point that this breakdown of functions is an invention of the School, let  52 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  me assure you that it is based strictly upon War Department doctrine for the employment of our own GHQ Air Force, as laid down in TR 440-15.  You are, of course, already generally familiar with the historical back- ground of air operations during the World War. These operations in the main constituted air operations in immediate support. We haven't the time to go over this ground. I would like, however, to speak briefly about the German efforts toward Air Warfare because this is the only complete historical back- ground we have and it will b