ch nature left out of our soil. It has become indispensable in the preservation of food, since it furnishes a protective coat- ing on the steel with which our so-called tin cans are made. We use it in  Vital and Vulnerable 151  the manufacture of automobiles, for the making of bearings, solders, bronzes and gun metals. The world’s sources are the Straits settlements and Bolivia.  RUBBER grows in the tropics, and we are dependent upon outside sources for our supply. We use over one-half the world’s production, which comes from tropical countries distant from our shores. We have developed several substitutes but our production capacity for these is small and the cost of pro- ducing them is higher than is the natural crude rubber. At present these sub- stitutes are being used by industry only in the special cases where they are better than crude rubber for some purposes. Without the imports to which we are accustomed our industry and our people would suffer serious hardships.  TUNGSTEN is used as an ingredient of tool steel, since this material in steel enables a cutting tool to keep its edge even when hot. For production during an emergency, when speed is essential, it is hard to see how we could keep the pace required without this valuable mineral. Smaller quantities of this material are used in steel which has to stand excessive heat. The world’s major supply comes from China, with lesser amounts from India and Bolivia.  Practically the same conditions exist in regard to our other strategic raw materials: nickel, chromium, antimony, camphor, hides, mercury, mica, ni- trates, platinum, coconut shells, silk, wool, shellac, food items such as sugar and coffee, vegetable fibers for rope, bagging and twine, and certain essential drugs, such as iodine, quinine, and the opium derivatives.  Now it is apparent from this brief analysis, that even with by far the most favorable situation economically, among all the great powers, we could still be seriously embarrassed by the d