struction of those vital elements upon which modern social life is dependent.  ‘The ability to operate initially and directly in furtherance of the ultimate aim in war differentiates the air force from surface forces, and is the basic fac- tor in the introduction of a new means of waging war. The air force itself dif- fers from land and sea forces in three particulars. In the first place, air forces traverse any kind of terrain with equal facility. Rivers, mountains, lakes, or seas form simply interesting changes in the panorama below. Such terrain features are, of course, primary factors in the conduct of surface warfare. In the second place, the air force is not confined to its own element in the pros- ecution of war. Land forces fight only on the land. Sea forces fight only on the  82 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  sea. The land force is unable to fight sea forces or to control sea areas. Naval forces are unable to fight armies or to control land areas. Surface forces are not only forced to accept the enemy’s armed forces as their strategical objec- tives: they must exert their efforts against particular kinds of armed forces. ‘The air force, on the other hand, operates with equal facility against objects either on the land or on the sea. It is not forced to accept the enemy's armed forces as the principal objective, and, if air forces do operate against enemy air forces by choice, they can attack any form of the enemy’s forces.  ‘The third particular in which air forces differ from surface forces lies in the fact that air forces do not have to occupy in order to exert pressure. Sur- face forces are constrained to accept occupation as the only means of express- ing their force, of achieving their ultimate aim. Air forces are not restricted by this limitation. It is not necessary to physically occupy an area in order to render it useless to the enemy.  Those three characteristic advantages are peculiar to the air force, and to- gether contribute to the