and sea forces and also in- dependently thereof, which are necessary for the defeat of our enemies.  3. Strategic situation and concept. European  By the time that the air forces contemplated in this study are ready for employment, it is likely that large Axis ground forces will be re- leased from the Russian front for employment elsewhere. Under these circumstances the ground forces of the United Nations will be numeri- cally inferior to the Axis ground forces in Europe. If our ground forces, which are numerically inferior, are to defeat the seasoned troops of the Axis in Europe, then circumstances must be created which will make this possible. Our numerically superior air forces must deplete the air forces of the enemy and undermine the structure which supports his surface forces. Fortunately a base, England, is available to us which is capable of sustaining our increasingly superior air power, and is within striking distance of the sources of German air power and the vitals of the German war economy.  Far Eastern  Our armed forces in the Far Eastern theater are not within effec- tive striking distance of the vital sources of Japanese military policy. Unless the Russian Maritime Provinces can be made available—and retained—as bases of operation, we will be unable initially to wage a  256  Appendix 3  sustained air offensive against Japan. This condition cannot be relied  upon. Hence our land and sea forces, supported by our air forces, must  recover lost areas which are suitable as offensive bases against Japan proper. When these bases have been recovered, then our air power can be brought to bear against the highly vulnerable structure of Japan.  Hence from the standpoint of air requirements, the Far Eastern opera-  tions may be divided into two phases:  (1) Air operations in support of our land and sea forces to regain bases within striking distance of Japan. This involves support of amphibi- ous forces driving northwest from Australia as a base area, and of lan