trategic Objec- tives of Air Forces” (chapter 6), Fairchild concluded that the fundamental decision for air warfare was whether to attack an enemy’s national econom- ic structure or its military forces. Attacking the economic structure was a purely offensive action, while attacking enemy forces had both offensive and defensive objectives. In modern war, technologically sophisticated weapons played an increasingly important role, and destroying the means of produc- ing such weapons prevented the arming of the enemy’s military. The target-  Introduction 31  ing of the enemy nation’s economic structure thus denied the opponent the hope of victory and increased the costs of continued resistance.  Combined, these ACTS lectures presented a uniquely American theory of strategic bombing that would soon be tested in World War II. The lectures on the requirements for conducting high-altitude daylight precision bomb- ing offer not so much original thought by the ACTS faculty as a reflection of how the Air Corps thought corporately about how to conduct air operations. ‘The originality is found in the connection between means and ends, by ar- ticulating the causal logic of how HADPB operations would lead to victory, why the direct attack on a limited number of economic targets would curtail both the enemy’s will and its capability to resist.  ‘The rapid expansion of the Air Corps in 1940 in anticipation of war brought an end to the school and, had this been the end of the story, ACTS would be an inconsequential footnote in air power history. In August 1941, however, the ACTS Bomber Mafia, including George, Hansell, Kuter, and Walker, created AWPD-1 (Air War Plans Division), the US air campaign plan to defeat Germany and Japan. Central to the plan was an independent stra- tegic bombing campaign based on high-altitude daylight precision bombing.  In the chapters that follow, lectures from the Air Corps Tactical School are presented as they were given to the airmen who would soon l