to absorb the lesson,  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 67  it was learned, apparently, only by the small and troublesome minority and discarded by the conservative majority. This is no exaggeration because the majority was represented by the Romans—86,000 strong—who allowed the young upstart Hannibal with little more than half that number of men to re- peat the tactics of Marathon and practically annihilate the Romans. This was the famous battle of Cannae.  Now this is not particularly important, except that the battle of Cannae repeatedly has been quoted by military students as a model for annihilation of the hostile force without so much as a word about the slow thinking on the part of the smug Romans.  As another example of slow learning, this time in connection with a new weapon rather than a method, we might cite certain European experience more than one thousand years after Cannae. In the year 1346—19,000 Eng- lishmen demonstrated to more than three times that number of Frenchmen the value of the longbow, as opposed to mounted knights in armor.”  ‘The English demonstrated this new weapon so well that half the French were lost while the English lost the ridiculously small number of fifty men.  This appears to be a rather clear demonstration of the effectiveness of a new weapon. Moreover it was not a battle in some far off corner of the globe—it occurred on French soil. Did the French learn their lesson? Was the new weapon something they could not produce? Were they given any other demonstration that might serve to confirm this experience?  Only ten years after the first demonstration, the longbow was again vic- torious. This time 6,000 English decisively defeated 16,000 Frenchmen. Cer- tainly the lesson must be learned now! Let us see.  After the French had had seventy years to contemplate the adoption of the longbow, they marched 50,000 mounted knights and humble foot-sol- diers into the withering fire of a mere handful of Englishmen whose principal weapon was t