ere the Catskill aqueduct proper starts and runs over 80 miles into New York City.  ‘The dams of these two reservoirs are of massive construction and do not offer a particularly good target for air attack. The aqueduct from the Ashokan reservoir runs along as a cut and cover aqueduct except where it passes under Rondout Creek—the Walkill River and the Hudson—where syphons are em- ployed. It is interesting to note that this aqueduct passes under the Hudson River 1,200 feet below sea level. This aqueduct empties into the Kensico res- ervoir which is of sufficient capacity to hold a month's supply for New York City. From the Kensico reservoir a cut and cover aqueduct leads to the Hill View reservoir, which is merely an equalizing reservoir containing one day’s supply for New York City. Here there is a connection with the Croton supply system. At the Hill View reservoir the city tunnel starts and runs for eighteen miles south, 200 to 700 feet below Manhattan and the Bronx, to its further- est supply point, Silver Lake reservoir, on Staten Island, which is reached through a syphon under the Bay. The whole aqueduct is 92 miles long, with 35 miles of tunnel, six miles of syphons and 55 miles of cut and cover. The aqueduct in the cut and cover sections is made of concrete one foot thick at the top and four feet thick at the base of the side walls and covered with three feet of earth. It makes a mound easily visible from the air and can be located without difficulty. The aqueduct itself is about 28 feet wide and a railroad train could run through it with ease.  170 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Now the Croton supply has two aqueducts which connect with the Catskill supply at the Hill View reservoir. The new aqueduct has a capacity of 300 million gallons daily and the old one about 35 million. They con- nect with the supply reservoirs of Manhattan but do not cross to Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island, except through the Hill View reservoir connection with the Ca