sians, as measured by the actual work accomplished. These conditions cause the United States to use about one-half of the raw materials of the world.  Although this nation is the most self-contained of all nations, there are many materials we do not have, and these we must import, if our production, our war effectiveness, and our high standard of living are to continue.  ‘Therefore let us briefly consider some of the materials we do not have, or do not have in sufficient quantities—strategic raw materials. Strategic raw materials are those for which dependence must be placed on importation from abroad, and of which domestic production can supply only a small part. They are twenty-six in number, and include such materials as ferrograde manganese, tin, chromium, tungsten, and wool.  Just to give an idea of what constitutes a strategic raw material—where it comes from and what it is used for—let’s very briefly examine one or two of them.  MANGANESE ore, for use in making steel, is normally imported. Our country can produce low grade ore and chemical ore but has no large depos- its of the richer ores. It is impossible to make sound steel without this high grade ore, and without sound steel our industries and our war efforts would be paralyzed. The world’s supply of high grade manganese ores is found in Russia, India, the Gold Coast of Africa and Brazil. All of these courses are distant from our steel industry and ocean shipping is required to bring this essential material to us. It appears that nothing short of a physical reserve of this material will make us completely safe from interruption and a bill is now before the Congress to authorize the expenditure of some millions of dollars in building up stock piles of this and similar materials.  TIN is one of the minerals which nature left out of our soil. It has become indispensable in the preservation of food, since it furnishes a protective coat- ing on the steel with which our so-called tin cans are made. We use it in