victory.  ‘There is another side to the matter upon which I must lay stress. There can be no question, whatever views we may hold in regard to it, that this form of warfare will be used.  There may be many who, realizing that this new warfare will extend to the whole community the horrors and suffering hitherto confined to the battlefield would urge that the Air offensive should be restricted to the zone of the opposing armed forces. If this restriction were feasible, I should be the last to quarrel with it; but it is not feasible. In a vital struggle all available  Trenchard Memo 231  weapons always have been used and always will be used. All sides made a beginning in the last war, and what has been done will be done.  We ourselves are especially vulnerable to this form of attack; and foreign thinkers on war have already shown beyond all doubt that our enemies will exploit their advantage over us in this respect and will thus force us to con- form and to counter their attacks in kind.  Whatever we may wish or hope, and whatever course of action we may decide, whatever be the views held as the legality, or the humanity, or the military wisdom and expediency of such operations, there is not the slight- est doubt that in the next war both sides will send their aircraft out without scruple to bomb those objectives which they consider the most suitable.  I would, therefore, urge most strongly that we accept this fact and face it; that we do not bury our heads in the sand like ostriches; but that we train our officers and men, and organize our Services, so that they may be prepared to meet and to counter these inevitable air attacks.  Appendix 2 AWPD-1  Graphic Presentation and a Brief  A-WPD/1 MUNITIONS REQUIREMENTS OF THE ARMY AIR FORCES TO DEFEAT OUR POTENTIAL ENEMIES  THE TASK (Condensed from ABC-1 & Rainbow 5) 1. To wage sustained air offensive against Germany in order to: a. Reduce Axis surface and sub-surface operations. b. Restrict Axis air operations. c. Undermi