F THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Has modern civilization reduced or increased the vulnerability of nations? Have science and invention provided a new method of waging war?  After we have analyzed and discussed those questions we shall have prepared the foundation which will enable us to make an intelligent answer to our question.  If there is one thing which we desire studiously to avoid in our inquiry into the strategy of the employment of air forces, it is dogmatism. What we intend to discuss in this room are not our unsupported opinions. The con- clusions which we draw here have been obtained not by closing our eyes and pulling them out of the thin air, but by study, by research, by finding out what military students throughout the world, who have devoted their lives to the subject of air power, believe to be reasonable. If what we have to offer does not appear to be sound, reasonable, and logical to you gentlemen, then it must be faulty—it must be unsound; if it cannot stand up under a searching analysis by seventy officers who earnestly desire to ascertain the truth, then it must be wrong. And, gentlemen, it is the truth which we are seeking; it is the truth which we desire.  ‘The basic question with which we are confronted is national defense. If in our search for the truth we find that air power is merely an adjunct, an auxiliary, of land and sea power, and that its doctrines, the strategy of its em- ployment, must have as their ultimate purpose the furtherance of the mission of those forces, then that is what we earnestly desire to ascertain. If, on the other hand, common sense and logic indicate that air power is not merely an auxiliary of the traditional instrumentalities of war, but is a separate instru- mentality, that it has a role in future warfare separate and distinct from land or sea power, a role which it alone can accomplish, then that is what we are desirous of learning.  To start aright in this search for the truth we must initially recognize th