f the heavy manufacturing industry of the New York district is located. An inter-connection is maintained between these plants and the Pennsylvania Railroad for stand-by services only.  On the New York side of the river there are a total of twelve important steam generating plants; in fact, in the whole metropolitan area, within a radius of 22% miles from the city hall, there are only twenty-six generating plants altogether.  ‘The situation in New York City is considerably complicated—due to the presence of two systems, one using 25 and the other 60 cycle current. Some of  174 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  the plants furnish one type only and some both types, but the systems cannot be inter-connected due to the differences in equipment.  In the whole area there are eight steam generating plants which furnish power for the traction systems: Interborough Rapid Transit—Brooklyn-Man- hattan Transit Corporation—The 8th Avenue Subway—Hudson-Manhattan Lines—Long Island Railroad—Pennsylvania Railroad—and the electrified portions of the New York Central and New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad.  But perhaps this limited number of generating plants is offset by outside sources of power? Upon examination we find that there are only two main transmission lines running into the area—one in Jersey and one in New York. ‘The capacity of these transmission lines is strictly limited and the total power that can be moved in is equal to less than half the power that can be gener- ated in one plant alone of the Brooklyn-Edison Corporation.  Furthermore, we discover a very interesting situation. These outside power sources are tied directly in with the generating plants. The outside high voltage is brought to the steam generating plants for transforming and distribution, due to the saving in duplication of facilities which this system makes possible. We find, therefore, that the generating stations themselves are essential for the use of this outside power.  Now what ab