ke are even more elaborate and com- plicated than the machines which are made. A multitude of patterns, jigs, gauges, forgings, castings, and stampings,—a long process of turning, mill- ing, cutting, boring, drilling, and machining, of work in the forges, presses and lathes, go to the making of any modern arm of war. Even the infantry rifle and the ammunition it uses are the result of some thousands of me- chanical operations.  What to Target 189  Now the machines which are made and in the hands of the armed forces are mobile; they are hard to locate; and they are dispersed. The machines which make these machines are fixed; the location of their vital points and motivating powers are known; above all, they are concentrated and they can- not be dispersed. Here, then, we can deduce at least a minor principle: We cannot only destroy the machines, which alone make war possible, more ef- fectively, if we strike before they are brought into action by the armed forces. We can, by striking correctly, prevent them from ever coming into being. By selecting proper objectives we can destroy the machines that make the ma- chines and so destroy whole generations of war machines yet to come.  By so attacking our enemy, we strike at the heart of his war strength. We strike at his power to create, maintain, and replace his armed forces.  Here, then, we have the armed force objective on a vastly expanded scale. More vulnerable because it is more concentrated, without mobility, without inherent power of defense, and not designed or constituted to absorb the blows of the attacker. And who would say that even the defeat of an enemy’s armed force in battle would create a morale effect comparable to the destruction of those war industries which alone make the creation, the maintenance, and the replacement of those armed forces possible? A nation may still find heart and courage to resist after a military disaster. No hope remains for the nation de- prived of its power to maintain, to rein