s, unaware of exactly when and where the point of attack would be, had to disperse its forces and wait. The concentration of of- fensive force would thus prevent the pursuit to bomber ratio from becoming too high and attrition rates too great.  Tactical Offense and Tactical Defense Major Frederick Hopkins March 31, 1939  Gentlemen: In his conference last hour Major Thomas referred to the “pen- etration of artificial resistance.’ It is our purpose to explore this subject at this time. From the lectures presented thus far in the Air Force Course, it must be evident that we should have a clear conception of the characteristics of Air Forces. No decision affecting the organization and employment of our air forces made in time of peace is more important than that to be made from the conclusions which are to be drawn from these conferences this morning.  ‘The capacity of a nation to supply its armed air forces the necessary ser- vice aircraft in time of war or before the advent of war is not unlimited. It was pointed out last hour that someone in peacetime must decide the proportion of defensive pursuit aircraft we will need on M-Day. Someone in peacetime must decide the number of striking force airplanes which will be needed un- less we find it possible for a nation in adopting the strategic defense to de- pend 100% upon defensive action to protect those vital establishments which we believe an enemy would feel justified in attacking.  Insofar as is possible we will endeavor to compare the air tactical offen- sive with the air tactical defensive; to balance the air offensive against the defense that can be provided by pursuit aviation and against the resistance which can be interposed to counter offensive action. We will confine our- selves to air tactics eliminating all strategic considerations.  We will attempt to be perfectly reasonable. We have been investigating this morning the characteristics of an air force with a view to exploiting its  100 LECTURES OF THE AIR C