r than on evidence from previous wars. In his conclusion, he attempted to insulate his claims from criticism by claiming his views were accepted by those “compe- tent to judge.” Though he does not name who those are, we are left with the impression that such competence resides with him and his bomber brethren alone.  Interestingly, Walker was largely proven right in World War II as the bomber formation almost always did get through. Even on the most in- famous raids in which US bombers suffered horrendous losses, such as at Schweinfurt and Regensburg, the bombers made it to the target. Walker, however, addressed only the effectiveness of a single bomber raid while ig- noring the question as to whether there would be sufficient aircraft available for subsequent strikes. The success of air operations was borne out by the cumulative effect of attacks over time, not on the outcome of a single raid. ‘The central question that Walker did not address, and which is considered in the next lecture, was whether a bomber formation could attack its target with an acceptable loss rate.  TACTICAL OFFENSE AND TACTICAL DEFENSE  Major Frederick Hopkins, in his 1939 lecture on “Tactical Offense and Tacti- cal Defense,’ addresses this critical issue of bomber attrition.‘ From the evi-  The Bomber Always Gets Through 99  dence of the British Independent Force's daylight air raids in World War I, Hopkins concludes that only when the ratio of pursuit to bombers exceeds 1.5 to 1 does the attrition rate become too high for sustained offensive op- erations. Hopkins argues that such a ratio would prove rare as the offense would inherently have the advantage over the defense as the offense chose the time and place of attack. The offensive could mass its force at the point of attack, while defenders, unaware of exactly when and where the point of attack would be, had to disperse its forces and wait. The concentration of of- fensive force would thus prevent the pursuit to bomber ratio from becom