t while the material dam- age from bombing had been minor, the effect on German worker morale had been extensive. The report concluded that the threat of air raids had signifi- cantly disrupted production even at factories that had not been bombed."  8 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  While the RAF handed out passing marks for its strategic bombing ef- forts, the assessment of the German General Staff was more critical. The Germans admitted that the IF had compelled them to redeploy air defenses for homeland defense, but the number of men, artillery pieces, and aircraft repositioned was lower than the British estimate, and this diversion of re- sources had not had a significant impact on German force levels available to the Western Front. While the Germans agreed with the RAF that the material damage to their factories from air raids had been limited, they concluded that the overall impact on war production and worker morale had been minor.’  Edgar Gorrell authored the US bombing survey, which included a section assessing British bombing damage to German factories. The report mirrored the findings of the RAF except for criticism of the IF for not concentrating attacks against key industrial targets. The RAF justified its decision to dif- fuse its attacks as an effort to erode worker morale across multiple cities and industries. Had the strikes been concentrated against vital economic choke points, Gorrell reasoned, the strikes would have had much greater impact. ‘This interpretation of the British experience in World War I would lead the Americans to develop a divergent theory of strategic bombing during the interwar period.'®  In addition to the direct lessons taken from the IF’s strategic bombing campaign, the static nature of the Western Front affected the approach of military strategists as to how future wars should be fought. For many, air power promised the means to avoid the enormous costs and suffering en- dured by land-based attritional warfare. A