some of the error contributing to the bombing probable error and to eliminate or reduce many of them.  Many of you have listened to or participated in recent Air Corps discus-  132 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  sions of the “sighting shot.” Particularly those of you who have been close to the Headquarters of the First Wing at March Field, California, are familiar with the good logic with which they support their contention that sighting shots must be employed. That logic is contained in this situation: Where a Bombardment unit leaves its base and proceeds a thousand miles to sea, flying through bad weather, climbing to very high altitudes to avoid some weather, when it eventually arrives in the vicinity of its objective, no bombardier in the entire organization has any means whatsoever of checking the effects of this long flight with great changes in temperature, possibly having run in and out of icing conditions several times, on his bomb shackles, bomb racks or any of his bombing machinery. Furthermore, he has no knowledge whatsoever of the ballistic wind. He may be bombing at 18,000 feet in a 100 mile per hour west wind. During the 36 seconds it takes his bomb to fall that bomb may be moving through winds totally different in direction and velocity. Under these conditions First Wing Headquarters contends that these bombardiers are in a very sad situation and the sighting shot must surely be employed.  ‘The logic of that argument is sound and we believe that some people have been too hasty in not giving it proper consideration. For example, as- sume we have a mean probable error of 150 feet, we know that if we approach and bomb this point and if our bomb sight is operated perfectly, if racks, shackles and all bombing machinery function properly that there is a fifty- fifty chance that that bomb will strike 150 feet “over” the target. Assume that that bomb was our sighting shot and we correct our sights by that amount for the next bomb. We would, in ef