line can  be 91 octane, for trainers, alleviates this situation to some extent.  12. Air Transport Command Requirements.  2,217 Transports are required, of which two-thirds should be long range, four engine.  13. Rates of Attrition.  It is likely that initial operations in the air offensives will be attend- ed by an abnormally high rate of attrition. This may be expected as a result of losses in shipping caused by submarine operations before the air attack on submarine bases has taken effect, losses at bases be- fore the attack of enemy bomber factories has taken effect, and losses from combat before the attack of fighter factories and attrition from air combat has reduced the enemy fighter forces. However, these loss  264 Appendix 3  rates should drop rapidly as our operations progress. It is believed that the rate of attrition of 20% per month from all causes in active com- bat zones will be fairly average. This is based upon British long-term experience.  14. Rates of Commitment.  In order to reach the increased goal of combat units by January 1944, it will probably be necessary to reduce the expected rate of com- mitment of units to combat theaters in early 1943, to increase the train- ing establishments.  15. Conclusion.  a. Both Germany and Japan are vulnerable to air attack.  b. A successful air offensive against Germany can be carried out and is a necessary preliminary to ultimate victory over Germany.  c. Base areas are now available in the United Kingdom, capable of sus- taining the necessary air forces to accomplish this purpose.  d. It is possible to conduct precision daylight bombing in the face of known and projected defenses of Western Europe.  e. It is possible to conduct such an air offensive against Germany with- out prohibitive losses.  f. Air support is essential to the conduct of all our other campaigns in 1943.  g. It is possible to meet the logistic and personnel requirements for the air force necessary to gain victory over our enemy.  h. It i