is nearly three times as great as the D-4 error—hence, the Japanese bombing might be called nine times poorer. What M-1, B-18 errors are today is un- known, but we are sure, under similar conditions, that they are less than the 133 foot errors originally obtained with the M-1 in the B-10.  With the degree of accuracy shown by this bombing, the Japanese  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombardment 135  would have to take at least 227 shots for a 90% assurance of getting one hit in a circle 150 feet in diameter.  We believe—if 227 bombs must be dropped to get one in an area bigger than a baseball diamond—it may be better to employ bom- bardment to augment the artillery than against small vital objectives.  We have proof that the bombardiers in the Army Air Corps can hit small targets.  We believe that United States Army Air Corps bombardment units can be counted upon to hit and destroy small vital hostile ob- jectives, whatever they may be.  We regret that the data upon which these figures are drawn is “Confidential”  CONFIDENTIAL  Copy INTELLIGENCE REPORT  Serial No. 34-10 File No. 1005-500 US.S. MINDANAO Place: Canton, China. —_ Date: 16 August, 1938. Name of Intelligence Officer: j. p. saw, Lt. USN, Executive and Navigator, U.S.S. Mindanao, River Boat, South China Patrol. Name of C.O.—J. P. cay, Lt. Comdr., USN. Source: Personal Observation. Subject: Sino-Japanese Conflict AvIATION—OPERATIONS—TARGET PRACTICE  CONFIDENTIAL  ‘The enclosure marked sketch “A” is submitted as an indication of accuracy obtained by Japanese bombers. These bombs were aimed at an aircraft repair and assembly plant located on the bank of the Pearl River in the northeast suburbs of Canton, China.  None of this bombing was in formation. The altitude was about 8,000 feet, flat bombing, medium sized landplanes, with no interfer- ence from anti-aircraft fire. The general direction of the flight is as indicated on the sketch. Location of bombs are plotted to scale. All bombs were 120 pounds excep