bom- bardment airplanes hit. The fact remains that the bombardment formation is still delivering a superior volume of fire against the attackers.  Pursuit may employ a time-fused fragmentation bomb which may be dropped on a bombardment formation from above. Two-seater pursuit is be- ing developed. A hostile force equipped with airplanes of this type, may form on the flanks and in front of the bombardment formation, and concentrate against it the fire of the flexibly mounted rear guns. While the bombardment formation is the recipient of either or both of the above types of attack, other pursuit may attack the formation from the rear with their fixed guns. For the defense against this type of attack, support by friendly pursuit may be required.  A formation designed for defense against hostile aircraft is not entirely suitable for the avoidance of antiaircraft gun fire. A compact defensive for- mation is less maneuverable and it provides a larger target against which all antiaircraft batteries within range may be concentrated. That formation most suitable for operations over areas defended by antiaircraft artillery consists of one in which the airplanes are flown with considerable intervals and dis- tances, i.e., where the airplanes are dispersed rather than concentrated. One type of dispersed group formation, known as the “dispersed column,’ is cited to illustrate. In this formation each squadron will have ten airplanes, the nor- mal number. The airplanes are flown in two elements of five airplanes each, one behind the other. When opening up to a dispersed column, the lead- ing squadron maintains the lower altitude. The second and third squadrons take positions on the flanks and above to the rear of the leading squadron, each maintaining a distance of approximately one thousand five hundred feet from the leading squadron. The fourth squadron flies to the rear of the leading squadron at a distance of approximately 3,000 feet and about 2,000 feet above the leading squa