up to Laurence Kuter, who had taught Bombing Probabilities at ACTS, to calculate the number of bombs required to destroy the target list. Informed by Bomber Command’s combat experience, the bomb total calculated from peacetime bombing charts was multiplied by a factor of two and a quarter. Factoring in likely combat losses, mission aborts, and European weather patterns, which on average allowed only five clear days for bombing per month, the planners estimated the total number of bombs and bombers required for the air operations."*  Surprisingly, the army staff and the Roosevelt administration accepted the air plan, named AWPD-1, with little modification. It ambitiously estimat- ed an air force of nearly 2.2 million men and 63,000 aircraft, 7,000 of which would be heavy bombers dedicated to the air offensive against Germany. The planners expected to need eighteen months to generate the requisite aircraft and aircrews and another six months to conduct the air offensive needed to independently win the war.'*  In December 1941, following the attack on Pearl Harbor, additional air forces were added to the plans for the Pacific, but the overall scheme remained intact. Roosevelt requested an update on air force requirements in August 1942.'° Hansell, the last of the ACTS cadre still in Washington, led the reassess- ment. AWPD-42 (appendix 3) did not depart from the methodology employed by AWPD-1. The revised plan called for an army air force of 2.7 million per- sonnel and 75,000 aircraft by 1943, with the increase in the number of aircraft reflecting training requirements. The overall strategy focused on Germany first. The priority of the USAAF was to “deplete the German Air Force, destroy the sources of German submarine construction and undermine the German war-making capacity.’ The emphasis placed on striking the Luftwaffe was a recognition that gaining the level of air superiority needed to conduct a day-  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombing in World War II 203  l