rd, the influence upon the defense of time, position and the number of objectives to be defended.  Let us consider the first—weather. Weather is a natural resistance—and outside the scope of this lecture, but let us examine it in the light of the op- erations of the British Independent Force. It exercised a decidedly different influence on the tactical air offensive in France than it would today. If we examine the records of the Independent Force, RAF, we find that 32% or one mission in three failed to reach the primary objective and bombed alterna- tive objectives—alternative objectives that either were designated in orders or selected by the tactical judgment of the air combat commander. The prin- cipal reason for this failure to bomb primary objectives was due to the state of technical development of the airplane proper. It is not unfair to say that the World War ended before the airplane had developed its full power as an instrument of war.  ‘The airplanes of these Day Squadrons were used to bomb at about the extreme radius of action under most favorable conditions. Given weather conditions of clouds, fog, rain, sleet and particularly high winds, the squad- rons were grounded. Weather forecasting had not reached its present state of development and often after taking off, conditions arose that required the abandonment of deep penetrations into the Rhine Valley. The high winds of thirty miles per hour reduced the speed of the DH-9 about 30%—that of a present day bomber about 10%.  We believe that you will concur that no such conditions exist today. Such progress in blind flying has been made and is being made that probably if any of us were called upon to penetrate an active antiaircraft defense in daytime we would not want a clear and unlimited variety of weather. And if intercep- tions depended upon us as group commanders of pursuit aviation, undoubt- edly we would pray for the cloudless skies that occurred day after day in sunny Spain. Weather has become a fac