xt war was not new, as airmen had long been making this argument to justify an in- dependent air force.* Muir Fairchild went further than most air power theo- rists by considering how air power could deter or coerce an opponent in both war and peacetime. The cross-domain influence of Italy's Regia Aeronautica in deterring the British Royal Navy in the eastern Mediterranean is an ex- cellent example of a time when the threat, rather than the actual use, of air power had a significant impact on the outcome of a war. While Fairchild may have exaggerated the overall significance the Luftwaffe played at Munich, the air threat to London and Paris did contribute to Prime Ministers Chamber- lain and Daladier’s decision to appease.’ This argument for the value of air power in peace and war provided justification for the Air Corps dream of becoming an independent air force.  PRINCIPLES OF WAR  Lieutenant Colonel Donald Wilson followed Muir Fairchild to the ACTS podium for his lecture “Principles of War.’ Wilson concurred with Harold  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 59  George that the objective of war was not victory over the enemy’s military forces but rather the defeat of the enemy's will. Wilson took it a step further, however, by contending that the true purpose of war was for the enemy to concede to terms favorable to one’s national policy. Defeat of enemy forces or the enemy’s will was insufficient if it did not achieve the nation’s political objectives for going to war. He asserted that air power was best suited for achieving these objectives through massed offensive action. He contended that there were no “immutable” principles of war; these, in fact, changed over time. Except for the objective, the other principles of war—including mass, economy of force, movement, surprise, security, simplicity, and coopera- tion—were concerned with the employment of military forces. Wilson criti- cized the study of unchanging principles for ignoring how the weapons and methods of war