the Air Force Course, the capstone event at ACTS, that the faculty presented its theory of HADPB.* Harold George commenced the Air Force Course with “An In- quiry into the Subject “War” (chapter 1). The introductory lecture articulated the central thesis of the airplane as a new means of warfare whereby the heart of a nation could now be directly attacked without first having to defeat en- emy military forces, a role that would make air power decisive in the future. Subsequent lectures (chapter 2) expanded on George's thesis. Muir Fair- child, in “Air Power and Air Warfare” emphasized the need for an air force in being at the outset of war. In “Principles of War,’ Donald Wilson argued that instead of seeking out immutable principles, the study of war should instead focus on linking the desired ends to the available means. The true objective of war was not the defeat of the enemy’s armed forces in battle but the overall defeat of the enemy nation such that it sued for peace on favorable terms. Air power was best suited for achieving this objective through massed offensive action. Haywood Hansell, in “The Aim in War,’ reasoned that war was the means for a nation to achieve its objectives of prosperity, security, and racial unity (in the case of Nazi Germany) by overcoming the will of the enemy na-  30 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  tion’s population. The airplane, unlike surface forces, could directly strike the nation’s will without having to first defeat the enemy’s military forces.  To support the assertion that air power was inherently offensive, Kenneth Walker, in “Driving Home the Bombardment Attack” (chapter 3), argued that in the air, offense dominates defense, and that a well-armed and well-flown massed bomber formation could defend against any air-to-air attack. In “Tac- tical Offense and Tactical Defense,’ Frederick Hopkins assessed future bomb- er attrition rates by taking an inductive, historical approach. In World War I, only when German defe