heir employment, unorthodox and radical. However, two factors constituted the basic foundation which elevated those leaders from the ranks of skillful artisans into the select fold of great artists. First, they had a clear conception of the end desired; second, they were inti- mately familiar with the powers and limitations of the force at hand.  It is only by approaching our problem through those two fundamental stepping-stones that we can hope to gain an insight into the strategy of war in general, and the strategy of air war in particular.  As professional soldiers, we have an additional function and responsibil- ity. We are concerned not only with the strategy of war. We are concerned with the strategy of peace as well. That is particularly true of military students of air warfare. The Air Force is, in very truth, in its infancy. It is our duty to mold and direct the development of this growing giant during time of peace so that he will be best fitted to accomplish the end desired of him in time of war.  Again we return to that first fundamental—the end desired. Surely, it is only through a clear conception of that ultimate aim—that end desired—that we can plan and develop our force for its maximum effort. With this object in view, let us analyze the ultimate aim in war.  We are, all of us, professional soldiers. We are being maintained, in time of peace, by a government for some eventual purpose. What is that purpose? We are an expensive luxury. What is expected of us? Why do governments maintain professional soldiers? Why is a soldier?  It is, of course, self-evident that we are being trained and equipped for war. What then is war? What is the aim in war? What is eventually expected of us?  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 75  To answer the first question—what is war—let us quote the eminent German author, Von Clausewitz. About a century ago he entered upon a searching analysis of war. He, too, found it necessary to establish, first of all, the purpose behind arm