r. Germany was prepared for a few months’ war and was unable to adjust herself to a contest which dragged into four years. England, with her habitual confidence in her fleet, failed to esti- mate the influence of the submarine and nearly starved before that influence was overcome. On the other hand, Germany failed to adopt wholeheartedly the more or less new idea of the submarine and found herself with about one-half as many as were required. This lack of the necessary number of sub- marines must be charged against the old line navy people in Germany who insisted upon building capital ships only to have them be bottled up most of the time and scuttled at the end of the war.  We ourselves failed miserably to grasp the meaning of modern war, even after watching it for two and a half years. We were pretty well prepared for another Spanish-American War but that kind of war was not being staged. We entered the struggle in 1917 almost totally unprepared.  Major General George A. Lynch, Chief of Infantry, in a lecture delivered to the class at Leavenworth made these comments:  It is painful to have to recall that [although] the first three years of the World War had demonstrated the power of the machine gun, we not only entered the war without a machine gun but did not even have one under development—and this was not the fault of the supply ser- vices but of the tactical authorities who should have prescribed the characteristics of the weapon. It is likewise unpleasant to recall that  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 69  we entered the war with tactical regulations that called for the deploy- ment of infantry at a density of one man per yard though the war had clearly demonstrated the stupendous folly of this procedure."*  And yet we were a world power entering upon the serious business of war.  Of course the natural reaction is that those things happened then, and that they cannot recur. To a large extent that is correct because most of those deficiencies revealed by the Wor