in seven annual bombing matches at Langley Field, Virginia. Old Table 4.1 is the only record of D-1 and D-4 accuracy. This bombing was done by picked and carefully selected teams. One team was selected from each bombardment unit in the United States and Panama to compete for the gold “Distinguished Bomber” medal. It is possible these teams were not always the best bombing teams in existence, but they were well above average. Considering this as an accurate statement of average bombing errors, personnel and training considerations would most certainly indicate that these errors were not “average” but much smaller than average.  ‘These errors, from the consideration of training only, should have been multiplied by two, three, or by four to get an average statement. Considering altitudes, this bombing was accomplished at 5,000 and 8,000 feet, only. These two particular altitudes—5,000 feet and 8,000 feet—in the opinion of the an- tiaircraft artillery enthusiast, might well be called the “suicide altitudes” As far as altitude is concerned, again, it would appear that these errors should have been materially increased. Considering the methods of approach, the bombing in these matches was performed in series of six bombs. Each bombing team approached the target six times at the same altitude, from the same direction, and under the same conditions. These teams came down this same groove six times, dropping one bomb each time. The first bomb dropped was called the sighting shot. The errors of the sighting shots were not even recorded. This table was, therefore, built on the errors determined by five bombs, dropped under identical circumstances, one after the other, completely disregarding the errors of the first in the series of six. In tactical bombing we envisage the bombing teams approaching the target, perhaps under fire, making one quick sighting operation, dropping bombs, and rap-  124 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  idly leaving the zone of fire. This tact