, works by Harold George, Kenneth Walker, Haywood Hansell, and Laurence Kuter are included because these ACTS faculty alumni were the key air planners tasked by General Hap Arnold in early August of 1941 to coauthor AWPD-1 (Air War Plans Division), the blueprint for defeating Germany and Japan. These officers were responsible for turning theory into reality, selecting the targets and then calculating the aircraft and aircrew re- quirements for conducting a strategic bombing campaign.  Finally and unfortunately, there is not enough space in this volume to in- clude all the lectures of the Air Corps Tactical School. However, the lectures presented here are primary sources for airmen, historians, and anyone inter- ested in understanding the creation of the air power theory that underpinned the most important strategic bombing campaigns in history.  Introduction  At 0956 hours on April 17, 1943, the B-17F dubbed Stupntakit slowly lifted off the runway at RAF Bassingbourn, laden with five 1,000-pound high-ex- plosive bombs destined for the Focke-Wulf plant at Bremen. Stupntakit was lead aircraft for the thirty-two B-17s assigned to the 91st Bomb Group, one of four groups contributing to a total of 115 bombers, Eighth Air Force's larg- est strike force to date. Single file, the Flying Fortresses climbed eastward as streams of bombers from the nearby bases that littered East Anglia rose to join them.'  In the mission brief earlier that morning, intel had informed the aircrew that the Bremen plant assembled eighty Fw-190 single-engine fighters per month, one-third of German Focke-Wulf production. The well-fortified city bristled with an estimated 500 anti-aircraft artillery (AAA or flak) batteries. Inclement weather had delayed this mission for nearly two weeks, but on this day forecasters predicted good visibility and high ceilings en route and over the target area. Throughout the winter and spring of 1943, the weather had limited high-altitude daylight operations over Ger