pt.  Prosperity—Security—and Racial Unity. Let us consider the first: Pros- perity. Prosperity is an expression of economics. The Great Powers today are all manufacturers. They find prosperity through the conversion of raw mate- rials into manufactured articles. For that prosperity two factors are requisite: a source of raw materials and a market for finished products.  England today is an example of a well-balanced economic empire. Sev- enty million Englishmen govern and control four hundred million subjects. One-fifth of the world’s land area is under British dominion. India alone is a tremendous source of raw materials and contains over three hundred mil- lion purchasers for British goods. That economic empire was carved through military conquest. It will have to be maintained by military force. England's  76 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  policy is concerned with maintaining that advantage. Her problem is to keep the land which she has acquired, and to preserve the lines of communication which bring her raw materials and return British goods.  Across the channel 66 million Germans are crowded into a small corner of Europe, without any colonial empire whatever. The only source of raw materials for Germany is in her own backyard. She must find her markets by the hard process of competition. Germany’s economic prosperity cannot be maintained under her present status. She must expand or face economic ruin. Her policy conflicts with the policies of those other nations which are wealthy and satisfied. If diplomatic and financial measures fail to solve her problem, then she must eventually take the only remaining course: she must fight for her national prosperity.  Again, Italy! Forty-four million Italians crowded into a barren peninsu- la, totally lacking all the essentials of economic prosperity. Italy lacked even the financial weapon for she was poverty stricken and faced with an annual and increasing deficit. She sought solution to her economic difficul