ical situation. Moreover, other objectives of great importance either from the political or military point of view must be attacked. Examples of these are:  (1) Submarine operating bases on the Biscay coast. If these can be put out of action, a great step forward will have been taken in the U-boat    266 Appendix 4  war which the C.C.S. have agreed to be a first charge on our re- sources. Day and night attacks on these bases have been inaugurated and should be continued so that an assessment of their effects can be made as soon as possible. If it is found that successful results can be achieved, these attacks should continue whenever conditions are fa- vorable for as long and as often as is necessary. These objectives have not been included in the order of priority, which covers long term operations, particularly as the bases are not situated in Germany.  (2) Berlin, which should be attacked when conditions are suitable for the attainment of specially valuable results unfavorable to the mo- rale of the enemy or favorable to that of Russia.  3. You may also be required, at the appropriate time, to attack objectives in Northern Italy in connection with amphibious operations in the Mediter- ranean theater.  4, There may be certain other objectives of great but fleeting importance for the attack of which all necessary plans and preparations should be made. Of these, an example would be the important units of the German Fleet in harbor or at sea.  5. You should take every opportunity to attack Germany by day, to de- stroy objectives that are unsuitable for night attack, to sustain continuous pressure on German morale, to impose heavy losses on the German day fighter force, to contain German fighter strength away from the Russian and Mediterranean theaters of war.  6. When the Allied armies reenter the Continent, you will afford them all possible support in the manner most effective.  7. In attacking objectives in occupied territories, you will conform to such instruction