.  Although it is not desired to consider in detail all points concerning the bombardment formation, it is believed that the discussion which follows will indicate sufficiently the features upon which the foregoing statements are predicated. First, the formation must be simple, compact and capable of ready control by the formation leader. It must be capable of maneuver and so flexible that distances and intervals between individual airplanes may be readily opened and closed. Its arrangement must be such that all angles of ap- proach by hostile aviation are well covered by defensive machine gun fire. In this connection, emphasis is placed upon a formation arrangement whereby the maximum fire may be concentrated against that angle most favorable to attack by single seater pursuit. The formation must be so flown that a simul- taneous attack by a superior number of hostile pursuit is difficult.  To meet these requirements, the normal formation consists of a number of three or five airplane elements. Within elements the airplanes are eche- loned rearward from the leading airplane to the right and left and slightly up- ward in altitude, forming a V. Each element flies to the rear of the preceding element. The elements are echeloned downward from front to rear. With such arrangement all areas enclosing the formation are well covered by machine gun fire. By the “staggered down” feature embodied in echeloning elements downward from front to rear, all rear gunners are provided with unblanketed fire to the upper rear hemisphere, which is the angle of approach most favor-  The Bomber Always Gets Through 91  able to the attack of hostile single seater pursuit. To appreciate the fact that approach from the upper rear hemisphere is most favorable to hostile pur- suit, consider the difficulties of the frontal or flank attack, or the attack from the lower rear hemisphere of a formation. In the frontal attack, the speed of approach of the pursuit is the sum of the speeds of the pursu