Let us not lose sight of the fact that vast numbers of searchlights would be required for the defense of a large area at night—providing one of the most severe limitations to the employment of pursuit aviation. Let us even imagine that we have these thousands of searchlights.  Since within the ground alert zone we can bring all the available air- planes to bear against the enemy we find that we will need 150 pursuit air- planes and 450 combat crews to provide defense for this city against 100 enemy bombers. This is undoubtedly a minimum. The British defenses of London contemplate far greater numbers of pursuit aviation. It is possible, however, they fear far greater numbers in the attacking forces. So our ratio of 150 against 100 modern bombers is certainly not unduly optimistic.  If our city is in the air alert zone it will require more airplanes in order to maintain that 1.5 to 1 superiority. Let us remember that in the air alert method we keep our airplanes in the air. Even the very thought of this method is fatiguing. Since the airplanes must be maintained and the pilots must get some rest, we may assume that it will take three airplanes and six crews to keep one airplane in the air continuously. If that is the case we will find it necessary to provide 450 airplanes and 900 crews to bring about that same combat superiority of 1.5 to 1. If our city is up in this patrol area the problem becomes so difficult that we become convinced that some other means be- sides pursuit alone must be used to defend our objective.  Now, if the city represents the only element that must be defended with- in the enemy nation, such as London is assumed to be in the British Isles, then these figures are not necessarily exorbitant—particularly those for the ground alert. It seems quite feasible to establish a pursuit defense of a single locality that might prove highly efficient against an enemy striking force of about this size. Of course, if the enemy striking force increases in size