et-up, come to intelligent conclusions. We can determine, in our own minds, whether ground forces must undergo a radical change in organization if they are to continue to wage war in the  44 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  future. We can determine, in our own minds, whether the British Fleet would today be safe in the inland sea of Scapa Flow, protected though it may be from submarines if England were at war with Germany or France.  We know that mountains, oceans, and deserts provide no obstacle to travel through the air. We know that barbed wire and trenches cannot be erected to offer obstacles to aircraft. We know that aircraft can fly by night as well as by day and we know that a ton of TNT does not lose its identity and become impotent merely because it has been dropped from the air.  There is one thing certain: Air power has given to the world a means whereby the heart of a nation can be attacked at once without first having to wage an exhausting war at that nation’s frontiers.  Whether air power can, by and of itself, accomplish the whole object of war is certainly an academic question; but that the air phase of a future war between major powers will be the decisive phase seems to be accepted as more and more plausible as each year passes.  In conclusion, let me say that “philosophy is the love of wisdom and wis- dom is the power of forming the fittest judgments from whatever premises are under consideration. If the aim of wisdom is to arrive at the fittest judg- ments, then indeed is common sense the true philosophy of life. In the great masters, common sense is not only spontaneous but prescient, for not only are actions adapted to circumstances, but the circumstances themselves are seen in advance of their happening.” That is what we are attempting to do,— to see circumstances in advance of their happening; for to be forewarned is to be forearmed.  Common sense must be our keynote and the conclusions we draw will better fit us to take part in the