owers through occupation. The ultimate objective of land forces is the occupation and control of vital enemy territory. The ultimate objective of sea forces is the occupation and control of vital sea areas and sea lanes of communication. ‘The ultimate objective of air forces is the destruction of the vital elements within the enemy nation.  ‘The limitations of surface forces impose the acceptance of intermediate objectives. Since strategy is the application of a means to an end, let us call these intermediate objectives strategic objectives, since the strategy of surface warfare is necessarily concerned with achievement of those preliminary ends.  ‘The primary strategic objective of land forces is defeat of the hostile land forces.  ‘The primary strategic objective of sea forces is to defeat or contain the hostile sea forces.  Air forces are not constrained by the same limitations. Their primary strategic objective is normally identical with their ultimate objective. Air forces proceed directly to destruction of vital elements within the enemy na- tion in order to break the enemy’s will to resist.  Gentlemen, we are confronted with the challenge that air forces have never proved themselves in the crucial laboratory of war.  Let us accept that indictment—not reluctantly, but quite honestly. To be sure, the air force has never won its spurs. That is not surprising. It came of age after the last tournament had ended and before the next has begun.  It is true that the air force has never demonstrated its power to change  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 85  the age-old methods of waging war by orthodox means. However, it is equal- ly true that neither armies nor navies have proved their powers in the face of a real air force.  Let us not be zealots. Let us not plunge thoughtlessly from the old and known to the new and untried. Let us not claim that the airplane has out- moded all other machines of war. Rather, let us be content with an evident truth: The air force has intr