act such attacks would have in short- ening war.  ‘The ethics of attack on manufacturing areas in the rear is one which is engaging the attention of an International Tribunal convened at the Hague. The result of the conference will probably be the founda- tion of a set of rules limiting attacks of this nature. Manufacturing centers produce munitions of war. Munitions of war are imperative to the continuance of the struggle. The destruction of manufactur- ing and material brings the conflict to a quicker termination. These facts cannot be controverted. Thus, manufacturing centers become military objectives, even though they house non-combatant per- sonnel. If given sufficient warning that the center will be destroyed, non-combatant personnel will be unable to justify their remaining in the vicinity when the actual bombardment takes place.*®  As to his advocating the targeting of a nation’s water and grain supplies, Mitchell ignored the effect this would have on the civilian population, choos- ing to focus instead on the impact such loss would have on enemy’s capacity to wage war and on how such attacks would shorten the conflict.**  In 1923, Mitchell toured the Pacific and Asia. He returned in the summer of 1924 with a prescient trip report concluding that war between the United States and Japan was inevitable, that the Philippines, Guam, and Hawaii were vulnerable to attack, and that the United States should restructure its defense posture in the Pacific with long-range, land-based bombers.”    18 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Back in Washington, Mitchell continued his attack on the Navy and War Departments in a series of articles in the Saturday Evening Post and in con- gressional hearings. In response, Secretary of War John Weeks did not reap- point Mitchell as assistant Chief of the Air Service. Instead, Mitchell reverted to his permanent rank of colonel and was reassigned to Fort Sam Houston, Texas, in March 1925.**  In August 1925, Mitchell publish