dependent Bombing Force  Time—13 March to 5 October 1918  Type Airplanes—DH-9  Average size Formations —9 Airplanes  Percent Bomber Losses é  0 “88-S8S- oe  Ratio Pursuit to Bombers in Air Combat  don their mission or by inflicting such casualties that the bombers fail to return.  It is our intention to discuss this latter phase—the actual air combat phase—first.  From the records of the Independent Force, RAF, as presented in the official history of the war, a tabulation of factors has been made—the ob- jective, the number of bombardment airplanes employed, the number of German airplanes encountered, the ratio of German pursuit airplanes to British bombers in each combat, the number of bombers lost, the percent- age of bombers lost and the results of the combat insofar as the mission was concerned. It has been impossible to arrive at any figure on the number of German pursuit airplanes that were shot down except from British reports. By analyzing this table we may gain some idea of the influence of pursuit numerical superiority upon the percentage of bomber losses.  ‘The curve that has been drawn from this tabulated data will not satisfy those of you with engineering tendencies. As an ordinate on the vertical scale we have plotted the percentage of bomber losses. On the abscissa on the hori- zontal scale we have plotted the ratio of pursuit to bombers in combat. Keep  The Bomber Always Gets Through 105  in mind that the points plotted indicate actual air combats. A rather doubtful curve has been drawn through the points thus plotted but it may indicate certain tendencies that may be of value to us in our analysis. It most certainly indicates that bomber losses increased as the pursuit numerical superiority increased. It indicates that when German pursuit superiority was from four or five to one, that almost 100% losses could be expected by the invading bomber formations. It indicates that the DH-9 with its single flexible ma- chine gun covering a quarter of the fir