efeat our potential enemies. Colonel Bissell suggested that the air part of the problem could be approached in one of the following ways: by the War Plan and Air War Plans Division making independent studies and then coordinating them; by the War Plans Division with the assistance of the AWPD preparing the plan. This latter method was ap- proved by General Arnold.  2. Colonel Bissell then contacted Colonel George and preliminary meetings were held involving the latter two officers, Major Kuter, Hansell, and Lt.  250 Appendix 2  Colonel Walker. During these initial conferences the procedure desired by the Air War Plans Division in approaching the project was put into effect.  3. The AWPD, recognizing its responsibilities under AR 95-5, determined that the matter was primarily an air matter and should be prepared by AWPD as a staff agency of the Chief of the Air Force rather than as subor- dinate assistant to a section of the War Plans Division General Staff.  4. Consequently, from that time on the entire project was handled exclusively under the direction of the AWPD. Colonel Bissell attended a few meetings but actually the War Plans Division of General Staff thru him did not con- tribute to the preparation of this plan.  5. A memorandum was prepared by AWPD on August 4, wherein the meth- od of procedures was outlined and the responsibilities delegated to repre- sentatives of the A-2, A-3, A-4, T & O Division OCAC, Materiel Division OCAC. Each of the several agencies were requested to prepare the perti- nent information essential to the plan.  6. All data which formed the basis of AWPD/1 was secured almost exclu- sively thru Army Air Forces agencies. It is noteworthy that the entire In- telligence background was gained from the Intelligence Division OCAC which had for the preceding year been assembling and preparing that character of data essential to such a plan as AWPD/1.  7. The entire plan was predicated upon the best determination possible of the mission and the