ltage and the distance.  Most large modern plants generate alternating current at a voltage varying from 6,600 to 13,200 volts at the generator, but as alternating cur- rent can be easily stepped up or down, the voltage is stepped up by means of transformers as soon as it leaves the generator, sometimes to as high as 275,000 volts. Because of the danger of utilizing power at high voltages the power must again pass through step-down transformers before reaching the consumer.  Even with these extremely high voltages there is a definite limit to the distance that electric energy can be transmitted effectively—the normal limit being from 200 to 300 miles. We see then that we cannot count upon utilizing any surplus power from other districts very far removed from the area where shortage exists.  Furthermore, I would like to call your attention on the Federal Power Commission Facility Map to the fact that there are very few main inter-con-  160 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  nections between districts. The light lines shown on the map represent low voltage lines of definitely limited capacity. It is not possible to increase that capacity without re-building the line, and especially, without re-building the transformer stations—a process which would require many months. One of our public utility representatives quoted as an outstanding achievement, the building of 65 miles of transmission line in seven months. No doubt this time could be reduced under war time pressure, but obviously it will always be a time-consuming process. In order to lend authority to the estimated time of replacement I quote briefly from an article by Major General Markham, when he was Chief of the Engineer Corps.’ Please bear in mind that he is concerned solely with the potential shortage for war time procurement and not with the effects of an enemy air offensive:  In attempting to provide additional power when a shortage develops in an emergency, the following must be borne in mind: (a)