’s decision to commence the Battle of Kursk in early July in an effort to preempt the anticipated Soviet counteroffensive.**  Impact on German War Production  A second potential justification for the utility of HADPB was its impact on the German economy. For decades, critics of strategic bombing have argued that the CBO had little impact on German war production.” Adam Tooze, however, in his revisionist work Wages of Destruction: The Making and Break- ing of the Nazi Economy, has demonstrated that the CBO halted the rapid expansion of German industrial production." The bombing of the Ruhr in the spring of 1943 disrupted steel production. As a result, the Germans had severe shortages for the duration of the war.  The problem with this argument in support of HADPB is that it was Bomber Command's night raids, and not the USAAF’s daylight precision strikes, that capped German industrial expansion. From March to June 1943, Bomber Command conducted repeated raids on key industrial cities in  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombing in World War II 215  western Germany that proved much more effective than prior raids due to three factors.” First, the RAF had responded to navigational and targeting deficiencies exposed by the Butt Report by developing electronic navigation aids, the first of which was Oboe, a radio transponder system capable of the accurate blind bombing of targets as far away as western Germany.” Sec- ond, the introduction of the Mosquito light bomber pathfinder force further increased the accuracy of nighttime raids by utilizing master bombardiers skilled in the use of air-to-ground radar, who could identify and mark tar- gets for the incoming bomber stream. Third, the rise in both the quantity and quality of the heavy bomber aircraft available to Bomber Command in- creased the lethality of its air strikes. The Lancaster had a much larger bomb load than earlier bombers, and by the spring of 1943 over one hundred were rolling off assembly lines each month.