sure does not place them elsewhere? And what of our three groups of Pursuit? Where are they to be based to unfailingly interpose themselves between the attacker and his unpredictable target?  Whata picture of chaos and confusion all this presents! What happens to our capacity to wage war? Under such circumstances, what is the amount of pressure that would be applied to our civil populations? Would it be sufficient to cause our capitulation before the threat of continued action?  We don't know the answer to this question because such an attack has never been made against a great industrialized nation, as yet. However, if we picture section after section of our great industrial system ceasing to produce all those numberless articles which are essential to life as we know it, we can form an idea of the pressure that would be exerted.  We should note also that the effects are not confined to this area alone. From this area come innumerable articles essential to the continued func- tioning of industries of every kind in every corner of this country. The stop- page of the small obscure factory producing automobile door latches halted operations in automobile factories all over the country. The denial of a major portion of the production of our vital area, would prostrate every important industry in the United States.  What of the widening circle of repercussions throughout the nation as a whole? While we are unable to evaluate accurately the amount of pressure that would be produced on the national structure, it seems certain that it would be sufficient to strain it to the breaking point, if it did not, indeed, prove to be conclusive.  Now to go back to the purpose we set out to accomplish in this examina- tion of our economic structure. This study was undertaken to see if we could put a finger on any weakness in the economic system of this greatest of all in- dustrial nations. This survey has barely scratched the surface because of time limitations. However, we have demo