epare for, wage, or sustain war. In time of national stress this force, even to us, might not ap- pear unreasonably large. It is, today, a big force. Such a mission is beyond the capability of all of our Bombardment Groups today.  If some changes could be made so that a smaller proportion of our bom- bardment force could accomplish such a mission, we would have, in effect, greatly increased the strength of our whole bombardment force. As to the size force required against this objective, whether or not it is reasonably or unreasonably big, we must do everything in our power to take the necessary action so that we are not forced to employ so great a force on such a target.  In these two Practical Bombing Probabilities Problems we have inves- tigated three methods of reducing the size force required (or of increas- ing the effective strength of Bombardment forces available). Each of these three methods is effective. Only one of these three methods will be found practicable.  In Practical Bombing Probabilities Problem No. 1 we investigated one of these methods: Reduction in altitude. In that problem we found that by reducing altitudes or bombing at more favorable altitudes, fewer airplanes  120 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  were required (or the effective strength of available airplanes was increased). We found that we must drop 76 bombs to be practically certain of hitting that carrier from 18,000 feet altitude. By reducing our altitude 33%, or bombing at 12,000 feet (a more favorable altitude), only 27 bombs were required. In that case we reduced our altitude by 33%; we reduced the force required by 66%. Some such ratio with these errors will be found to be correct in gen- eral. A reduction of 25% altitude will increase the potential effectiveness of this bombardment force by much more than 25%, 45%, or 50%, for example. This is, therefore, an effective method of reducing the size force required. It is manifestly not a practicable method. We came down in