is the most permanent element in all history. It is the element upon which surprise is registered. Hence, the factor of surprise will always be a most powerful weapon.  Security  Security or protection is largely concerned with preventing surprises. It em- braces the measures employed by a nation or a military commander to pre-  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 65  vent the occurrence of a condition for which no adequate provision has been made.  ‘The greatest difficulty with providing security is that it usually reduces the efficiency of other elements, particularly when the available force is lim- ited. The proper balance between the need to guard against the effects of enemy action, while at the same time exerting pressure against him, is the proper solution for the factor of security.  In arriving at this compromise it is necessary to realize that the mini- mum security demanded is that which will permit continued operation of the force or activity until it can accomplish its purpose. Extreme measures for security, such as removing installations beyond the reach of the enemy, may nullify their purpose and hence may be entirely impracticable. At the other end of the scale, lack of security measures may cause quick defeat and thus prevent the force from striking a single blow as experienced by the Pol- ish Air Force. Somewhere between these extremes is found the compromise which provides the proper balance between effort expended in security and that which remains for use against the enemy.  Simplicity and Cooperation, like nearly all of the other items we have considered, are factors concerning method. They are both important factors. Both are made necessary by human limitations.  Simplicity is demanded because of the lack of facility of the human mind in grasping and coordinating more than a very few considerations at one time. This lack of mental capacity is so universal, and so well recog- nized, that military men have raised the desire for simplicity to the exal