were diverted to support the North Africa Campaign, all B-29s were assigned to 20th Air Force, headquartered in Washington, DC, and commanded by the chief of the USAAF, General Hap Arnold. Arnold planned to base the B-29s in China (XX Bomber Com- mand) and the Marianas Islands (XXI Bomber Command). The Committee for Operations Analysts (COA) had commenced initial target selection for a strategic bombing campaign against Japan the previous year and, by the win- ter of 1943, it had identified, but not prioritized, six target sets: steel plants, merchant shipping, aircraft factories, ball bearing plants, radar and radio fa- cilities, and urban industrial areas. Steel production, as an intermediate good, was the only target that fit neatly into the ACTS strategic bombing theory for targeting vital and vulnerable economic nodes. By contrast, the attack of merchant shipping complemented the navy’s ongoing blockade, and the targeting of aircraft and ball bearing factories, along with radar and radio fa- cilities, supported an air superiority campaign, a prerequisite to ground inva- sion. The targeting of urban industrial areas was reminiscent of RAF Bomber Command's campaign against Germany, with the firebombing of Hamburg in July 1943 serving as a template for inflicting extensive damage upon a city. The COA considered Japanese cities particularly vulnerable to incendiary raids, given the large number of wooden structures.  At the Cairo Conference in November 1943, Roosevelt promised Chiang Kai-shek that B-29s would soon be bombing Japan from China. Sustained operations from China, however, proved logistically and operationally infea- sible. In 1942, the Japanese had invaded Burma, interdicting the Allies’ only land route to China. Logistical support from India required that supplies be flown over the Himalayas, a herculean task involving seven flights over the “Hump” to ferry the fuel and bombs for a single B-29 combat sortie. Opera-  220 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTIC