ndividual power plants exist in the United States capable of producing and distributing as much as a million, eight hun- dred thousand, horsepower apiece. While there are many more smaller plants they are presumably of importance only to their immediate locality. From what we have dug up so far we may definitely conclude that if these forty-nine plants were destroyed the effect upon the economic and industrial system of the nation would be simply appalling. With no power in the Northeast, or rather with the tremendous deficit in power which the destruction of these plants would cause, our capacity to produce would be completely crippled.  Let us put it another way. Instead of being the most powerful and mighty industrial nation in the world, relying upon our tremendous resources and facilities to provide us with the means to wage a victorious war, we would be reduced to the status of a second, or perhaps a third class power for a period of a year, or perhaps two. Let us note in passing that the very facilities that we would rely upon to repair this damage themselves lie within this area, and themselves depend upon the continuation of power to manufacture the replacement equipment required.  Now what about the vulnerability of this great industry to air attack? If we examine this question we find that it is a very different sort of industry from the petroleum industry. Electric energy must move through a definite circuit, including many highly specialized units all built to handle a specific load. The capacity of these units is definitely limited. The destruction of any one unit in the chain from power source to distribution point will definitely put that source out of action. It is impossible to divert the flow around the damaged unit—such as the step-up or step-down transformers, the turbines, generators, rotary converters or even the boilers of steam plants. It is impos- sible to store electricity as we store petroleum. Immediately upon the break- down of any link