ir attacks would most certainly be carried out against the vital centres of communication and of the manufacture of munitions of war of every sort no matter where these centres were situated.  It seems to me that the time is now ripe to lay down explicitly the doc- trine of the Air Staff as to the object to be pursued by an Air Force in war.  ‘The doctrine which in the past has determined and still determines the object to be pursued by Navies and Armies is laid down in the respective Service Manuals in these words:  (i) The Navy: The Military aim of a Navy is to destroy in battle or to neu- tralize and to weaken the opposing navy including its directing will and morale.  (ii) The Army: The ultimate military aim in war is the destruction of the enemy’s main forces on the battlefield.  226 ~=Appendix 1  I would state definitely that in the view of the Air Staff the object to be sought by air action will be to paralyse from the very outset the enemy’s pro- ductive centres of munitions of war of every sort and to stop all communica- tions and transportation.  In the new Royal Air Force War Manual this object will be stated in some such general terms as the following—the actual terms have not been defined: “The aim of the Air Force is to break down the enemy's means of resistance by attacks on objectives selected as most likely to achieve this end”  I will now proceed to examine this object from three viewpoints:  (i) Does this doctrine violate any true principle of war?  (ii) Is an air offensive of this kind contrary either to international law or to the dictates of humanity?  (iii) Is the object sought one which will lead to victory, and in that re- spect, therefore, a correct employment of air power?  Does Tus DOCTRINE VIOLATE ANY ‘TRUE PRINCIPLE OF WAR?  In my view the object of all three Services is the same, to defeat the enemy nation, not merely its army, navy or air force.  For any army to do this, it is almost always necessary as a preliminary step to defeat th