ar to  34 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Harold George, 1933.  be reasonable, practicable, and logical. To date, your air instruction has been centered around subjects with which you already have a considerable ac- quaintance. You have been asked to believe merely that, with certain types of equipment, and with certain degrees of training, it is possible for an airplane, or a group of airplanes, to fly to a certain point and accomplish certain mili- tary missions. You have been asked to assemble the facts which you already know are true and make therefrom a completed picture. You all know, from personal experience, or from happenings to which you can give judicial no- tice, that bombs can sink powerful naval vessels and destroy such structures as reinforced concrete bridges. You know that blind flying and blind landing are possible and you know that an airplane can be navigated with accuracy over long distances. You may not have believed all the tactics or techniques taught at this school thus far but, believing or not, you have been able to subject the ideas presented to you to the analysis of personal knowledge. Insofar as your instruction in ground subjects has been concerned, you know that the tactics  Air Power and War 35  taught have been proven on the field of battle; that regardless of whether or not they are possible and feasible today, they were practical in the past.  From today on, much that we shall study will require us to start with nothing more than an acknowledged truth and then attempt, by the utiliza- tion of common sense and logic, to evolve a formula which we believe will stand up under the crucial test of actual conditions. We shall attempt to de- velop, logically, the role of air power in future wars, in the next war. We are not concerned in fighting the past war;—that was done 18 years ago. We are concerned, however, in determining how air power should be employed in the next war and what constitutes the principles governing its e