in relation to the other great powers.  It must be realized that except for Russia, this country is the only indus- trialized power built on continental proportions. We enjoy, therefore, unique super-abundance in the foodstuffs and raw materials essential for the devel- opment of national power—both in peace and war. But even in the case of those commodities, which we would be unable to produce in sufficient quan- tities under a war emergency, our situation is likewise unusual. Compare our position with that of other great powers, including their colonial possessions as shown on the map. The most notable feature at once apparent is the large proportion of the earth’s surface contained within the jurisdiction of the United States, Russia, and the empires of Great Britain and France. The vast consolidated territories of the United States and Russia furthermore make a striking contrast with the scattered and, therefore, strategically more vulner- able possessions of the other great powers. Consider the position of the Unit- ed States insofar as the availability of imports of raw materials in time of war is concerned. Contrast our situation with that of the other great powers. Rus- sia, for example, is hemmed in by both Asia and Europe with no direct outlet  148 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  to the sea. As to Great Britain and France, imports of necessary supplies from their colonial possessions, or other extra European regions, are extremely vulnerable in time of war. They must eventually be transported through the dangerous bottleneck of their territorial waters, near which lie the centers of their industries. In the case of Japan her complete isolation from the other industrialized centers of the world renders her situation precarious. The lack of a large number of important raw materials, which she and her immediate neighbors suffer, definitely limits the size and self-sufficiency of her industry. In any major conflict she must resort to western industr