ive, came from his sheds to raid when he chose.  ‘There were many other effects of the raids, real and powerful, but difficult to assess. When raids were in progress, or even threatened, vital war work was held up all over the country.  The air-raid menace, more, perhaps, than any other aspect of the war, was responsible for a temporary revolution in English social and general life. Night brought the unrelieved gloom of darkened streets and a brooding sense of danger. The reader, with the full facts before him, may reflect on the paucity of the means which brought this about. The air war was fought out on the Continent of Europe, and the bombing of Great Britain was episodic. It is not difficult to imagine circumstances in which we might have been called upon to meet the full force of Germany's air strength over this country.  54 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Unless the reader ponders what that implies, the air raids will not be viewed in their proper perspective, nor will the potentialities of air attack be made clear.’  Please bear in mind that the British Official Historian is evaluating results achieved by a few Zeppelins—never more than fourteen in number—results which by our present standards would be considered not only ineffective but complete failure. You are familiar with the capacity and efficiency of mod- ern bombardment and attack operations. Balancing these factors against this historical example you may draw the inevitable conclusions for yourselves.  Now we have devoted considerable time to the summarization of this historical example of Air Warfare, because it is the only one on which we have sufficient knowledge to evaluate means employed against strategic results achieved. I hope you will thoughtfully consider these factors: The smallness of the force employed; the relatively few attacks that were made; the relatively small tonnage of bombs that was dropped; the inaccuracy of the bombing, and, hence, the inconsiderable material damage