tric acid 52% Fire control instruments 87%  And so forth for other items too numerous to mention. In fact, out of the total allocations of facilities to produce our entire critical list of requirements amounting to 11,842 factories—three states alone: New York, Pennsylvania, and Massachusetts, have 5,791, or just about one-half.  Here then, is in truth a concentrated objective which one might not sus- pect existed in this great continental industrialized nation of ours. Had we the time we might make an analysis of this area and the vital industries that  Vital and Vulnerable 157  are concentrated there. All the information is available for this purpose in various commercial publications—available to us and to our prospective at- tacker as well. We haven't time to do this but even without it I think we can draw the obvious conclusions that this vital area of ours must be protected at all costs if our economic structure is to continue functioning, and, further- more, that in this area an adequate analysis would provide our attacker with vulnerable, concentrated targets whose destruction would apply tremendous pressure to our civilian population while at the same time seriously impair- ing our ability and capacity to wage war.  Particularly we should analyze the transportation system within this area. I am sure everyone will admit that a breakdown of the transportation system would cause the stoppage or complete collapse of all industry within the area. It seems likely from what we know of transportation systems gener- ally, that an adequate analysis would reveal concentrated vulnerable points whose destruction would go far toward causing that breakdown.  It would require a rather comprehensive analysis of available transporta- tion to reach any indication as to whether a reasonably sized air force has the capacity to cause a sufficient breakdown of transportation within this area to accomplish our purpose. While this is a fairly large subject, all the necessary inform