ng forward to with a great deal of interest.’ During the last summer of the war, aircraft of superior performance were used by both the Insurgent and Government forces. The superior pursuit armament of the Russian-built airplanes seems to be outstanding. The following report may be of interest to us in our discus- sion at this time:  Though the actions of the air forces in Spain have been on a very small scale in comparison with what they would be in a war between large nations of Europe, they have nevertheless offered an interest- ing field for investigation and observation.  First of all is the importance assumed by the factor of speed. It is speed that enables the airplanes to carry out their missions be- fore they are overtaken by the pursuit airplanes of the enemy, to escape the fires of these fighting airplanes and that is to say, reach objectives that are more and more distant. The more the units have been equipped with slow equipment, the greater the losses they have sustained and the greater the difficulties they have found in carry- ing out their missions. They have been an easy prey for the pursuit planes and the modern antiaircraft guns. The use of new planes; the Soviet Katiuskas, the Junkers, the Heinkels, the Dornier 177 and the Savoias 79, whose speed is approximately 400 Km/hr (about 250 m.p.h.) almost equal to that of the pursuit airplanes has made it pos- sible to recommence the long distance bombardment missions.  Let us definitely state our conclusions:  We believe that the trend in technical development has favored the of- fense at the expense of the defense.  ‘The initiative of the offensive gives to the attacker not only the choice of time and place of attack but the amount of force to be used.  We know that under no conditions can the tactical defensive secure a favorable ultimate decision.  The Bomber Always Gets Through 115  It seems very improbable at this time that we can guarantee 100% on a broad scale an effective denial of enemy air a