hat of another,—to break down the hostile will to resist.  ‘There is plenty of indication that modern nations are interdependent not so much for the essentials of life as for those “non-essentials” needed to conduct their daily lives under the existing standards of living. When re- trenchment in consumption and production in the last depression became manifest, it was soon world-wide—it was only a matter of time until the monster's tentacles reached into every so-called modern nation.  ‘The trend in modern nations has been towards specialization in industry and agriculture, which makes for large territories which are not self-support- ing. The miner has little to do with raising his own food nor with making his own clothes or other essentials for modern life. The city dweller is dependent upon other communities for nearly everything he consumes, and oftentimes the consumer and producer are brought together only through the medium of intricate systems of modern transportation. In large cities many of the workers are not self-sufficient even for their means of locomotion between  Air Power and War 43  home and work. Many factories and most homes and places of business are entirely dependent for electrical power upon sources far removed from their location. In some instance whole industries are dependent upon a single source of supply of raw material which must flow through a single vulnerable bottleneck;—witness the American steel industry and the Soo Canal.  Hence, modern industrial nations are much more vulnerable, because of the existence of the economic structure which our present civilization has created, than were the nations of a century ago, when the dependence of one section upon many others did not exist. It appears that nations are suscep- tible to defeat by the interruption of this economic web. It is possible that the moral collapse brought about by the break-up of this closely knit web would be sufficient; but connected therewith is the industrial fabric