ous, and, since nations are merely collections of individuals and since national security and national prosperity mean an enjoyable self-preservation, it is readily apparent that na- tions, even as individuals, will stake all to obtain them. Self-preservation is the strongest of man’s instincts; it is the same with nations. In the final analy- sis, all national policies are centered around the focal point of self-preserva- tion. And self-preservation means prosperity and security; therefore national policy centers around prosperity and security. War is sometimes the method resorted to by nations to insure those two conditions. Therefore, war is truly a continuance, by violence, of a nation’s peace-time policies.  Our second question—“Why does war occur?” Now in all walks of life, in all businesses, there exists competition. Great business establishments at- tempt to increase their size and their incomes by taking away from others; individuals attempt to improve their status, and this is usually done at the expense of someone else. In other words, this desire to change the status quo results in strife. Everyone wants to improve his position—no one wants to lose what he has—and, therefore, we find nations competing with one anoth- er in the markets of the world, in all of the activities which make them more prosperous, and, since this can usually be accomplished only at the expense of some other nation we see the commencement of strife.  Now nations try to adjust these differences by peaceful means—that is, in harmony with the instinct of self-preservation, for violence threatens life. However, frequently the time arrives when nations are unable to secure the things they consider essential for their continued self-preservation by  38 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  peaceful means and they resort to war because war is the only other means available. There is an anomaly: first, self-preservation dictates to man that he remain at peace with his fellow men, and