it to be so.  In the first place, the direct attack of civilian populations is most repug-  142 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  nant to our humanitarian principles, and certainly it is a method of warfare that we would adopt only with great reluctance and regret. Furthermore, the repercussions in neutral countries could not be completely ignored, though it is apparent from what has occurred in Ethiopia, Spain and China in this respect, that this is not a matter that need cause us as much concern as was formerly thought to be the case. In those undeclared wars, thousands of civil- ians including women and children have been killed during the bombing of cities without the reaction in neutral countries being serious enough to have any real effect.  However, there is another point which has a real bearing upon the prob- lem and that is whether this is the most effective method of waging air warfare directly against the enemy nation. Obviously we cannot and do not intend to actually kill or injure all of the people. Therefore our intention in deciding upon this method of attack must be to so reduce the morale of the enemy civilian population through fear—fear of death or injury for themselves and their loved ones—that they would prefer our terms of peace to continuing the struggle, and would force their government to capitulate. Any pressure that exerted upon the war making capacity of the hostile nation, other than this, would be entirely incidental.  Now the building up of morale during war has always developed from the act of war, and it has required a very appreciable length of time to develop to the maximum. Once developed, however, the breaking down process by the application of military pressure has taken an even greater length of time. Inasmuch as we may expect the initial mental state of a nation at war to be one of confusion, rather than the firm state of morale which may eventually emerge, it may well be possible for air attack direct on the civilia