erri- tory, their objectives must continue to be largely topographical.  When we visualize the employment of air forces, however, we imme- diately find before us a heterogeneous collection of minor objectives—air- dromes and port facilities—troop columns and battleships—rail centers and artillery batteries—factories, bivouacs, bridges—cities, and as some would have it, even the infantry line in battle! The attack of any one of these multi- tudinous, crowding objectives may be expected to have some virtue, however slight. Also we may expect each particular objective to have its insistent ad- vocates, if the present variety of thought on the question continues. Certainly there is as yet no unified opinion among military personnel in general on this important fundamental question.  One great reason for this condition is the attempt to fit this military fac- tor of air power—air warfare—into the old picture of traditional warfare, without regard to the proper application of the real fundamentals that have  182 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  held true throughout the history of war. Now certainly we have not presented any new or revolutionary principles; but we have tried to show in a broad and general way what the School believes is the proper application of those fundamentals to the conduct of air warfare.  Let us briefly summarize the basic points that have been brought out before proceeding to consider the question of the primary objectives of air forces.  In the first place, the ultimate aim of all military action in war is the breaking of the hostile will to resist. Surface forces, due to the inherent char- acteristics of surface forces, are obliged to accept an intermediate objective— the armed force objective. They are obliged to defeat the corresponding types of hostile armed forces before they can proceed on to their ultimate objective. Otherwise they are normally open to defeat by those hostile forces, through action directed at their vulnerable lin