OOL  peaceful means and they resort to war because war is the only other means available. There is an anomaly: first, self-preservation dictates to man that he remain at peace with his fellow men, and second, self-preservation dictates to man that he wage war against his fellow men. Peace and war are just two different means of securing the same end. Therefore, in answer to our sec- ond question we might well say with little risk of contradiction that major wars occur because the peace-time machinery has failed to enable a nation to continue those policies which it considers essential for the security and prosperity of its nationals.  Our next question—“What is the object of war?” Obviously, if war is a continuance, by violence, of a nation’s policies and if war is resorted to only when the peace-time machinery has failed to insure a continuance of those policies, then the purpose of war is to compel an adversary to accept such policies. In other words, the real object of war is to overcome the hostile will. Major wars are not resorted to until some obstacle appears in the path of a nation and prevents it from carrying out its policies. That obstacle is always the policy of another nation which the first nation feels will, either now or ultimately, threaten its security or prosperity. That obstacle must be removed. If it cannot be removed by peaceful acquiescence of the nation imposing the obstacle, the only other remedy known is to apply force to the extent neces- sary to overcome that nation’s will,—to make its will disintegrate to the ex- tent that it offers no further resistance to the removal of that obstacle. When that is accomplished, the object of war has been attained. Therefore, the basic purpose, the fundamental object of war, is to force the will of one nation upon another nation; to overcome the hostile will.  ‘The next question—“How has war been waged in the past and why has it been waged in that manner?” Since the object of war is to overcome the host