o do,— to see circumstances in advance of their happening; for to be forewarned is to be forearmed.  Common sense must be our keynote and the conclusions we draw will better fit us to take part in the next war, if and whenever it comes; for it is the next war with which we are concerned—not the last one which has ended. Let the historians revel in that one—our concern is with the future.  COMMENTS ON “AN INQUIRY INTO THE SUBJECT ‘WAR”  George's introductory lecture to the Air Force Course provides the thesis statement for the Air Corps Tactical School's theory of strategic bombing: air power can win wars quickly, decisively, and independently. The original- ity of the theory lies in how victory will be achieved: not by the defeat of the enemy’s military forces or by the bombing of its civilian population, but by disrupting the economic system of the enemy nation such that it will not  Air Power and War 45  only be unable to support its population but also be unable to produce the machinery required to continue the war.  Three key assumptions underlie the ACTS theory of victory. First, air power can attack the heart of the enemy without the need to first wage a war of attrition. George ignores the possibility of an attritional battle for air su- periority having to be waged prior to being able to sustain deep-strike opera- tions. Second is the assumption that a modern national economy is neither resilient nor adaptive enough to withstand a discreet number of air strikes against its vital nodes and/or chokepoints; such a course of attack will pro- duce economic paralysis. Third, George presumes that economic paralysis will end a war quickly by collapsing the enemy’s morale through economic deprivation and/or the inability to supply its military. The validity of these assumptions would be challenged in World War II. As it turned out, air forces were no different than surface forces in that the neutralization or defeat of the enemy forces remained a critical aspect of w