ypes of hostile armed forces before they can proceed on to their ultimate objective. Otherwise they are normally open to defeat by those hostile forces, through action directed at their vulnerable lines of communications. Now air forces are fully capable of acting against the armed force objective—incidentally, not only the corresponding type of armed force, but against all types of hos- tile armed forces. But beyond and above this capability, if they possess proper strategic air bases, air forces may act directly, immediately and continuously against their ultimate objective—the direct attack of the structure of the en- emy nation.  Here, then, we come to a fundamental difference between surface forces and air forces. The primary strategic objective of a land force is the hostile land force—to assure the defeat of the opposing land force. The primary strategic objective of a naval force is the defeat or the containing of the hostile naval force. However, the primary strategic objective of an air force is not necessar- ily the hostile air force. True, it may be the hostile air force, but it may also be the hostile ground force, the hostile naval force; or it may perhaps ignore all such intermediate objectives and make directly for its ultimate objective, the direct attack of the national structure of the enemy nation.  It is obvious that this complete choice does not always exist, as was dem- onstrated, for example, in the case of our being on the strategic defensive without allies. The reasons, of course, are to be found in the present range of aircraft and the lack of properly placed strategic air bases. We should not lay too much stress on this case however. It certainly is not the condition as be- tween two such nations as France and Germany, for example, where there is complete freedom of choice. In their case all the elements, not only of all the armed forces but of the respective nations themselves, lie well within their  What to Target 183  radius of operati