AFB), Alabama, I examined the files on the ACTS. I found a treasure trove of lectures that have often been cited but had never before been published. Lectures from the late 1920s and early 1930s were mostly scattered notes, but by the late 1930s, the school’s leadership had begun to require the ACTS faculty to type out each lecture for review prior to being presented to the students. As a result, these lectures have been preserved exactly as they were read aloud to the US Army Air Force (USAAF) officers who would be tasked to lead their squadrons, bombardment groups, and air wings into combat.  From these lectures I assigned one, Muir Fairchild’s “National Economic Structure,’ but without context many students and some of the faculty did not see the relevance of the reading and it was soon scrapped from subse- quent syllabi. For a time I considered what format could best make the ACTS lectures accessible to military officers and scholars. The original idea was to create something akin to an edited volume in which the ACTS lectures would form the body of the book. Finally, I had the time to commence the project in the fall of 2014 while commanding the Air Force ROTC detach- ment at Yale University. After combing through dozens of ACTS lectures, I identified those that best presented the ACTS theory of strategic bombing.  One evening, while at a Security Studies Program (SSP) dinner at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, I mentioned the book to the histo-  xii Preface  rian Frank Gavin, describing it as a history. He encouraged me to instead reconsider the project as a political scientist as I had been trained. Upon reflection, I realized that the case of Eighth Air Force's experience in the Combined Bomber Offensive against Germany presented an excellent case to test the ACTS theory of strategic bombing. The ACTS faculty, led by Har- old George, Donald Wilson, and Kenneth Walker, had developed a theory of strategic bombing based on the unescorted daylight bomb