mentals in the conduct of war, we give up and determine to accept these basic factors upon which we will predicate our future investigation into this subject.  1. The end desired. 2. The means available. 3. Application of the means.  The end desired. (This may be called: The Objective to be attained—the purpose—the aim—the object sought—or, any number of terms—but in the final analysis it is the primary purpose we choose to call “The end desired”)  The means available. In war on the national scale this embraces the whole of the nation’s resources of every kind. (In military operations the means in- cludes all of the various types of forces or other methods by which the com- mand may exert pressure on the enemy to bring about the end desired.)  The application of the means. This is the action which is intended to bring about the end desired, by use of available tools or forces—the means avail- able. Intelligent application of the tools available to any echelon of command  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 71  presupposes the most advantageous use of the peculiar powers of each weap- on or other means employed.  Well, we have been through the items that often pose as “principles.” We see they are almost wholly items for consideration in the application of a force to produce a desired end.  As such, of course they are important in all echelons of command.  However, as our analysis has shown, to dignify these guides to correct application of the means by giving them the name of Principles of War and utilizing them as the basis of our strategic concept for the application of Air Power,—is more than likely to lead us to disaster.  ‘This idea has been aptly expressed by a recent (and advanced) article published this year by an American Military writer:  Military catchwords, such as the principles of war and quotations and maxims from the ancient great, have caused the loss of more battles, the deaths of more men, the stultification of more thinking, than treason, cowardice, or