ined armed forces for us. He said, “Armed forces are instruments for the furtherance of national policy.”  A nation which pursues policies likely to provoke conflict, must have the means to enforce its desires and the will to employ those means. The two factors go hand in hand: the desire to do something, and the means to do it. If we are to frustrate the enemy’s intention, we may accomplish our purpose in either of two ways: we may break down his will to fight, or we may break down his means to fight. The two are, of course, intimately related. Past expe- rience has shown that the breakdown of the national will quickly follows the defeat of the armed forces, and conversely the political government whose will has been sapped finds military defeat insured.  Both these methods—these approaches to the ultimate end desired—are equally conclusive, and both have been used—separately or in conjunction— in past warfare. The siege of the walled city was an effort to starve the enemy into submission—and whereas both the means to fight (the military element) and the will to fight (the government represented by the people)—were af- fected, the primary burden fell upon the latter—the people. If the city capitu- lated without a final assault, it was because the people preferred the terms of  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 79  peace imposed, to endurance of further hardship. The garrison might still be willing and able to fight—the means to fight might still be present—but the will to resist, as expressed through political government, had been broken down. As another example, the Central Powers in the last war found them- selves in a virtual state of siege by the Allies. The means to fight still existed at the Armistice, but the seat of political government was no longer willing to fight. The people preferred the terms of peace to further endurance of the hardships of war. Many military experts are agreed that Germany’s military forces, fighting on internal lines, might have resist