mbardment force by much more than 25%, 45%, or 50%, for example. This is, therefore, an effective method of reducing the size force required. It is manifestly not a practicable method. We came down in altitude 25%; our bombing accuracy was increased by 45%. What was the increase in the effectiveness of the modern antiaircraft artillery guns with that decrease in altitude? The answer to that question will be known only when antiaircraft artillery guns have fired at current bombardment airplanes in a war between progressive, well-equipped, major nations. In the meantime, considering se- curity only, if we reduce our altitudes, such an action will be wholly to our disadvantage if antiaircraft artillery effectiveness increases in greater pro- portion than bombing accuracy increases. We will never know where these two curves intersect until we have returned from missions and counted our losses. Those of us who do not come back will provide the data on which the surviving bombardiers can draw these curves. Until that date we know that reductions in altitude which seek most efficient bombing conditions cannot be the reliable means of correcting bombing inaccuracy.  In the third requirement of Practical Bombing Probabilities Problem No. 2, we have investigated a second method of reducing the size force required. ‘There we have investigated reductions in the percent chance of success de- manded of our bombardment units. We found that a 90% chance of suc- cess required 440 bombs. This School accepts the 90% chance of success as a practical certainty. However, there may be bombardment commanders who will not accept odds of nine to one as practical certainty. Had we demanded odds of 95 to 100, we would have increased our chance of success by 5%. We would have increased the number of bombs required to 600, or 36%. With a 95% chance of success, there would still remain five chances, in a hundred, of failure. It is conceivable that some individuals might not tolerate even so small