usiness of war.  Of course the natural reaction is that those things happened then, and that they cannot recur. To a large extent that is correct because most of those deficiencies revealed by the World War have been overcome.  Today there is no problem concerning machine guns; there is no failure to realize the need for more than one yard interval in extended order; and only recently we at last changed our infantry division organization to con- form to that which was adopted by foreign armies during a war that took place more than twenty years ago. In other words we are now pretty well prepared to fight the World War over again.  But this does not mean that we will foresee the factors influencing the next war any better than these were foreseen in the past. It does not mean that we have grasped the significance of “Air Power” any better than we grasped the meaning of machine gun power. It does not mean that we cannot be surprised by some young upstart who is willing to proceed on the basis of a promising theory such as employing an air force composed of literally thou- sands of bombardment airplanes. Such a surprise was sprung at Munich, and again in a more definite manner in Poland.  It is obvious that mistakes have been made—it is obvious that tradition- al weapons and customary methods do not necessarily produce successful results. Hence, we must reach the conclusion that military equipment and military methods must change to meet the changing conditions. But where is the guide that will carry through this transition—that will show us things as they are—that will picture conditions in their true light? Certainly when we run on to an imposing title such as the “Principles of War” we are justified in expecting just such enlightenment.  But slowly, after much search for the basic truth concerning the prepa- ration for war, and the conduct of war, we find that practically everything that has been written is devoted to an explanation of methods concerning the conduct