emendous importance to the bombardment commander, and to the commander of any higher unit which is directing the employment of bombardment aviation.  (2) Training of bombardiers.—The variations in bombing prob- able errors now employed in TR 440-40 provide an easy means of rating the proficiency of bombardiers, and, in addition, have a prac- tical tactical value not found in any arbitrary system of scoring.  (3) Logistics. When the number and type of probable bombard- ment objectives are known, data on bombing accuracy are required to form the basis for estimating the quantity of bombs that should be provided bombardment units.  b, BOMBARDMENT EQUIPMENT AND TECHNIQUE.  (1) Bombs.—Bombing accuracy and the military characteristics of bombs are intimately associated. It is essential that bombing re- cords be carefully studied, with special reference to dispersion and variations from the mean trajectory, to set up satisfactory military characteristics for bombs. Once these characteristics are known, the Ordnance Department is properly charged with the design, devel- opment, and supply of bombs with these characteristics.  (2) Developments.—Effective general coordination of the devel- opment of bomb sights, bomb racks, and the bombardment airplane with the employment of bombardment aviation, can be accom- plished only by one central office which has immediate access to all detailed information relating to bombing errors.  2. PRESENT SITUATION.  a. ANALYSIS OF BOMBING RECORDS.—At present, bombing records are not analyzed. They are received at the Air Corps Tactical School as described in Section A of this Memorandum. The Air Corps Tac- tical School lacks both personnel of necessary scientific qualifica- tions and personnel of necessary mathematical ability to conduct this analysis. As a result, if three hostile airplane carriers were to appear off our coast today, no Bombardment Group commander, no Wing commander, nor any higher military headquarters has any sound basis u