ull 10 months later, that long-range escorts were available.’    Introduction 3  Formation of B-17Fs of the 92nd Bombardment Group en route from England to Germany, circa 1943.  Compared to US bombers, the Luftwaffe suffered little. Though B-17 gunners claimed 63 enemy fighters destroyed, the actual number was five (only three to enemy fire) with another nine damaged. In addition, the set- back to Focke-Wulf production was less than anticipated since, unknown to the allies, by 1943 the Germans had dispersed Fw-190 production across eight facilities. Though dispersal added to the cost of each fighter by as much as 30%, it afforded the Luftwaffe the ability to absorb the lost production from a single plant.*  AMERICAN STRATEGIC BOMBING THEORY  The conditions encountered by the B-17 raid on Bremen—weather delays, lethal enemy air defenses, and dispersed production facilities—are indicative of the broader challenges that confronted US airmen in their effort to win the    B-17F raid on Marienburg Focke-Wulf plant, October 9, 1943. (National Archives)  The Memphis Belle, a B-17F Flying Fortress assigned to the 91st Bombardment Group, flew her nineteenth mission against Bremen on April 17, 1943.  Introduction 5  war with a uniquely American vision of strategic bombing. During the inter- war period a small cadre of airmen serving on the faculty of the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) at Maxwell Field, Alabama, had articulated the con- cept of high-altitude daylight precision bombing (HADPB), a coherent yet controversial theory for victory through the independent employment of air forces. The ACTS instructors and their students would later be responsible for translating theory into practice in World War II. In so doing, the logic of HADPB was tested and in many ways found wanting as the advent of radar tilted the offense-defense balance toward the defenders, and the persistent clouds over Germany and Japan neutralized the potential lethality of high- altitude daylight precis