of four squadrons can be easily flown within an area 500 feet wide and 1,000 feet long. It will be most difficult for an equal or superior number of pursuit airplanes to launch a coordinated, concentrated attack against a group formation of this character. Even though 40 pursuit airplanes could deliver a simultaneous attack against such a formation, it would be bringing but 80 machine guns into action against either 160 or 240 guns mounted on 40 bombardment airplanes. As the rate of fire of the flexibly mounted ma- chine gun is nearly twice that of the machine gun mounted to fire through the propeller, it is apparent that the bombardment formation should have the best of the argument, by sheer force of fire power.  Pursuit will attack by long range fire, as well as by close range fire. A  92 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  i qe Oe ie  THE SQUADRON IN JAVELIN FORMATION —-—- CO ~Inghicaks Svswn elmer element  SALE  A ten-ship Bomber Squadron in a Javelin formation (overhead and side view).  group formation as compact as that above discussed is undesirable, in that machine gun fire, delivered in the plane of the formation, may miss the air- plane at which it is aimed, but hit another airplane. When such fire is an- ticipated the bombardment formation may increase interval and distance between airplanes to from one to two hundred feet in from about one to three seconds. A hostile pursuit force may attack with a number of airplanes flying to the rear of the formation and delivering long range fire, while other airplanes deliver close range fire, approaching the formation from several angles. The open formation will be used against such an attack. Accuracy in  The Bomber Always Gets Through 93  fire will be an important factor in the relative number of pursuit and bom- bardment airplanes hit. The fact remains that the bombardment formation is still delivering a superior volume of fire against the attackers.  Pursuit may employ a time-fused fragmentation bomb wh