like to call your attention, parenthetically, to the fact that, when air forces are properly employed, their lack of continuous operation or con- tinuous rate of fire, which is so often referred to by the military traditionalist, hardly appears to be the serious limitation which he seeks to make out.  Each mass attack of the power industry that is launched against these fixed, known installations would certainly succeed in achieving some per- centage of destruction. Destruction of power plants themselves, thus re- moving them from the production field; or destruction of the mass of high voltage transformers at either end of their transmission lines, thus preventing the distribution of the power produced.  We have heard the opinion of the Chief of Engineers that replacement would require from 9 to 18 months. We have seen the deficit in normal peacetime production of power for this area, predicted by the Federal Power Commission. We have seen the concentration of industry in this area as es- tablished by the Bureau of the Census. We know that one-half of all our allo- cations of war time requirements are concentrated in only three states of this area. We know that at the impact of each destructive bomb, the wheels of all industry in the area served by that power plant, or that distributing station, stop instantly.  And what of defense against this attack? The locations of targets are well known and quite incapable of removal. They are difficult or even impossible  Vital and Vulnerable 163  to conceal. In fact, adequate protection by any passive means seems almost out of the question.  As for active defense—the targets are scattered widely over a tremendous area. How would we dispose our six available regiments of AA artillery to offer protection, if indeed, political pressure does not place them elsewhere? And what of our three groups of Pursuit? Where are they to be based to unfailingly interpose themselves between the attacker and his unpredictable target?  Whata pi