ps Tactical School lectures in the previous chapters present a uniquely American vision of strategic bombing focused on attacking the vital and vulnerable nodes of a nation’s economy. High-altitude daylight precision bombing might have remained a theory only, however, had it not been for the arrival of World War II, a conflict that provided airmen the opportunity to test their hypothesis that an air force could independently and decisively win in war. In anticipation for the coming war, the Air Corps accelerated efforts to educate its airmen on strategic bombing theory. The curriculum was trun- cated to three abbreviated twelve-week courses taught from 1939 to 1940, during which time ACTS accommodated three hundred of the four hundred senior officers who had not previously had an opportunity to attend.' The Air Corps then discontinued the course, but a core group of its “Bomber Mafia” faculty would soon be translating theory into practice planning the air war for the newly expanded US Army Air Force.  In the summer of 1941, Lieutenant Colonel Harold George received the assignment as chief of the USAAF’s new Air War Plans Division. Tasked with estimating air force production requirements for conducting war against Germany and Japan, George mustered former ACTS colleagues for the ini- tial planning effort. Employing the same planning methodology they had taught at ACTS, within nine days they had produced AWPD-1 (appendix 2), the USAAF’s plan for defeating the enemy on both fronts. AWPD-1 formed the blueprint for aircraft production requirements designed to make HADPB central to the USAAF war effort.  ‘The reality of air warfare in World War II soon revealed four flaws in the assumptions of HADPB when the theory was put into practice. First, formations of self-defending bombers could not, in fact, conduct unescorted offensive operations with acceptable losses against an integrated air defense  196 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  system. A fleet of bombers co