e and distinct from land or sea power, a role which it alone can accomplish, then that is what we are desirous of learning.  To start aright in this search for the truth we must initially recognize that military organizations as such have no divine right but are suffered by a people simply because they have been able to give to that people security ina world where brotherly love exists more on the tongues of orators than in the daily practices of men and nations. In other words, national security is the aim; there is no obligation on the part of governments to provide this secu- rity in any certain way. There is no obligation to maintain an army, a navy, or an air force, if security can be provided without any or all of them.  Air Power and War 37  So remember, we are searching for the truth and we are not asking you to believe simply because you think we believe. We hope common sense will be our key-word. We know that we are attempting to peer down the path of future warfare. We are not discussing the past; “Let the dead past bury its dead.”* “Forward lie the pains of growth—backward the agonies of decompo- sition; to stand still is to rot.’> Therefore, let us get on with our inquiry.  ‘The first question we wish to answer for ourselves is “What is war?” As we study the writings of military leaders we come to the conclusion “War is a continuance, by violence, of a nation’s peace-time policies.”® You may re- member that, several months ago, you were told that national policy was the strategy pursued by nations to insure security, prosperity, and ethnic unity. That, actually, is merely another way of saying that national policy is the strat- egy pursued by nations to insure their people an enjoyable self-preservation. Individuals want security and they want to be prosperous, and, since nations are merely collections of individuals and since national security and national prosperity mean an enjoyable self-preservation, it is readily apparent that na- tions, even as in