ulative effect of aerial bombardment would more efficiently reduce the enemy's material means to fight than that of conventional land battle, while simultaneously subjecting the population to severe economic depriva- tion. It was this combination of lacking the material means to continue the war and the suffering endured by civilians that would compel the enemy to capitulate.  ‘The specific targeting of an industrial nation’s economy entailed two steps: first, identifying what key factors of production were vital and second, determining the location of concentrated chokepoints vulnerable to air at- tack. Fairchild believed the information needed to target fixed infrastructure was readily available, although World War II and the Cold War would later prove this optimism to be misplaced. Overall, however, Fairchild succeeded in identifying three critical requirements for any modern industrial state: raw materials, transportation, and power.  With a grand strategy of isolationism in the United States, the ACTS fac- ulty was prevented from obtaining intelligence on potential adversaries. In the second hour of the “National Economic Structure” lecture, Fairchild in- stead analyzed how the United States might itself be vulnerable to air attack. Given the US abundance in most raw materials and the multiple sources for those materials that were in short supply, Fairchild did not view it as practical to try to disrupt imports to the United States. He did, however, point out that import-dependent countries such as Great Britain, Germany, Italy, and Japan might be vulnerable to interdiction or blockade. Where Fairchild believed the United States to be most vulnerable was in its transportation networks, its concentrated petroleum refineries, and its electrical power stations. All three of these factors of production would later be identified by the United States Strategic Bombing Survey after World War II as key vulnerabilities in the Nazi German economy.’  Fairchild, in “New Yo