for those who had to be shown—those who lacked the vision and courage necessary to accept a promising theory. These—the conservatives—are always in the majority.  This majority opinion in the military is an average intelligence which resists the more progressive ideas while hanging on to those which have out- lived their usefulness. Not many months ago it was dangerous to speak of airplanes in the thousands, simply because the majority could not grasp such an idea so long as it remained a theory. Now we scurry to secure thousands of airplanes and argue about what to do with them.  Opposed to this average level of thought and intelligence, there is always a small, enthusiastic, and troublesome minority.  This minority is often wrong, but sometimes it is right. Of course the amount of noise and trouble it creates is no indication of whether it is right or wrong. Fortunately though, when it is wrong its life is short; when it is right it persists despite all opposition and thereby leads the way to the future.  However, in military matters particularly, much time is required to change the mind of the majority. Even when the correctness of an idea has been demonstrated to the majority it is still frequently not accepted. Such demonstrations must be repeated time and time again before the conserva- tives are convinced.  For example, the double envelopment method of attack was demonstrat- ed 490 years before Christ, when 10,000 Greeks decisively defeated twice as many Persians at the battle of Marathon.  This would appear to be a rather clear demonstration of the value of this method, under the conditions of that time—and to some it was—but to the conservative majority it was just another “special case.” This is borne out by the fact that 274 years later, with all those years to absorb the lesson,  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 67  it was learned, apparently, only by the small and troublesome minority and discarded by the conservative majority. This is no exaggeration beca