es of the enemy national structure objective and the armed force objective. Only those armed forces in being that are fully supplied and fully equipped escape the influence of such employment, if successful. This escape can only be temporary at best, for no nation in the world can afford to maintain in war reserve, the supplies, the munitions, the replacement equipment, to offset the terrific consumption which begins with war.  Hence the decision resolves itself into a relatively simple question. Can our nation and our armed forces withstand the action of the enemy's armed forces in being, until our air forces can exert the pressure necessary to cause the collapse and capitulation of the enemy nation? If we decide that they can do so our decision must be to exploit the peculiar powers of our air forces to the utmost by employing the air forces so as to obtain their maximum pos- sible contribution through the direct attack of the enemy national structure. While considerations of security or sheer inability may force us to postpone this action, the first opportunity which promises success should be seized upon to initiate this employment.  Now let us see if we can clarify the results of this discussion by briefly considering an actual situation. We will take a situation which might, per- haps, be real enough one of these days.  General situation.  Due to continued developments in the Far East the United States has declared war on Japan. Russia, seizing her chance, has allied herself with us. Our War Department has ordered the available striking units of our GHQ Air Force flown to bases to be furnished by Russia, in Siberia.  As staff officers, let us consider the situation that confronts us on our arrival and prepare ourselves to make recommendations as to the proper em- ployment of our GHQ Air Force.  We find ourselves located in prepared bases furnished by Russia, just to the north of Vladivostok, and supplied by the Trans-Siberian Railway. Large Japanese and Russia