orce losses. We accept this as merely a general figure.  The method by which we employ our pursuit airplanes will vary with the position of the city to be defended. Let us assume that the entire friendly territory within the frontier is organized into an aircraft interception net. As you will recall from your Pursuit Course, there are three general methods of pursuit operations—by patrol, by air alert, and by ground alert. Further- more, there is a definite limit within which each of those methods can be employed. Objectives to be defended that are located on or near the frontier with no interception net extending toward the enemy require the use of the patrol method. If we move backward from that frontier we reach a distance at which it becomes feasible to use the air alert method, and still further back we reach a zone within which the ground alert method can be employed. ‘The distances behind the frontier at which these methods can be used will vary with the performance of the friendly pursuit airplanes and the enemy attacking airplanes. The altitude at which the enemy attacking formations penetrate will also influence that distance.  112 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  If we assume that the city which we wish to defend is located back in the ground alert zone and further assume the enemy has 100 bombers which are within range of the city, we find that the enemy bombers have the tremen- dous advantage of initiative. They can select the time of day or night for at- tack. Since it is hardly reasonable to expect pursuit pilots to stay on the alert continuously for twenty-four hours without relief, day in and day out, let us recognize the fact that each pursuit airplane will require at least three combat crews. Would you, as pursuit commanders, ask for less?  Let us not lose sight of the fact that vast numbers of searchlights would be required for the defense of a large area at night—providing one of the most severe limitations to the employment of pursuit