e capable of achieving independent political out- comes. Beyond the impact of his leadership upon the RAF, Trenchard’s ideas also influenced American airmen, the most prominent of whom was Briga- dier General William Mitchell.  Billy Mitchell  William “Billy” Mitchell, the flamboyant son of a US senator, joined the US Army Signal Corps in 1898. In May 1917, Major Mitchell was dispatched as an aeronautical observer to Europe, where he witnessed the technologi- cal advances to French and British aircraft design, innovation accelerated by  14 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Brigadier General William “Billy” Mitchell, circa 1921.  the requirements of the war. It was here that Mitchell met Trenchard, who influenced his thinking on the need for an independent air force. When the American Expeditionary Force arrived later that year, Mitchell commanded the US air component, where he proved an able combat commander and gained invaluable insights into air operations. Experience convinced him that air power had a role to play equal with land and sea power and that command of the air was critical to the success of air, sea, and land warfare. Colonel Mitchell, however, returned to an isolationist America rapidly de- mobilizing. His call for an independent air force fell on deaf ears.”  Yet despite demobilization, the importance of air power was not en- tirely lost on the War Department. In 1920, the Army Reorganization Act formed the US Army Air Service with Brigadier General Mitchell as its as- sistant chief. The establishment of the Air Service did not mean, however, that army leadership believed air power should be employed independent of ground forces. Given the army’s view of air power as a supporting arm, along with America’s retrenchment into isolationism, Mitchell could not openly advocate for an offensive strategic bombing force designed to strike distant  Introduction 15  US Army Air Service Martin MB-2 bomber drops a white phosphorous practice bomb on the U