d landplanes, with no interfer- ence from anti-aircraft fire. The general direction of the flight is as indicated on the sketch. Location of bombs are plotted to scale. All bombs were 120 pounds except those marked A and B which were believed to be 480 pounds. The point of aim should have been quite clear as it was a large building which, though camouflaged, was well set off with trees around it.  136 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Itis hoped that these reports will provide some basis for compari- son with the results obtained by our bombers under like conditions. ‘This report is submitted separately from #33-9 as all bombing of the latter report was done in formation. CONFIDENTIAL Submitted by J. p. cLay, Lt-Comdr., USN. Forwarded by J. P. cLay, Lt-Comdr., USN.  In this period we have discussed the tremendous increase in the ef- fective strength of the GHQ Air Force that might result in lowering mean probable errors from the vicinity of 150 feet to the vicinity of 50 feet. It was this operation which permitted us to use five flights where ten squadrons had been required before. Here are two selected bombing records of recent bombing with the Mk I bomb sight in the B-18 airplane. In this first scoring record from 11,600 feet altitude by Lt. Offut, pilot, Lt. Schwanbeck, bom- bardier. They dropped five bombs from the clover leaf method of approach from 11,600 feet altitude in a 15 mile wind from a true air speed of 156 miles per hour. Their mean probable error was 58 feet. In this other record Cap- tain DeRosier and Lt. Anderson, bombardier, in a B-18 airplane, took off from their base en route to the objective, climbed 10,000 feet (indicated 9,400 feet) and bombed target 2,610 feet higher altitude than their point of take-off. ‘They operated in a 25 mile per hour wind with a true air speed of 150 miles per hour. They dropped eight bombs, the mean probable error of which is 38.5 feet. Of their eight, the fourth, fifth and sixth were all considerably short