sed—would tell a very different story.  Having failed to find that the great national petroleum industry consti- tutes a very vulnerable link in the national economic structure of the United States, let us turn our attention very briefly to the steel industry. I do not need to stress the fact that if the steel industry can be destroyed, our war capacity is reduced directly in proportion to the destruction achieved. In addition there would result the tremendous hardships which would soon thereafter be imposed upon the civil population.  [Here the speaker refers to a map showing various industrial resources, as he discusses.]  Note the iron ore resources of the United States, shown in orange; the coal resources necessary for smelting, shown in green; the concentration of pig iron production centers, shown as black dots; the movement of ore through the Soo Canal shown in red; and the concentration of steel plants, shown in blue.  What are our vulnerable points here? Certainly the destruction of the Soo Canal locks would be very troublesome. It is a concentrated vulnerable objective. You will recall that during the Bombardment Course on Bombing Probabilities you calculated the size of the force required to give a reason- able assurance of destruction of these locks. Recalling those figures we can conclude that it could be destroyed by quite a reasonably sized force without much difficulty. This would cause the diversion of the 50 million tons of ore, that normally pass through the locks annually, to the lake railroads for an average haul of 864 miles, which equals 43 billion, 200 million ton miles, or a 50% increase of traffic density on all lake railroads. It appears from study that this increase perhaps could be absorbed except for a serious shortage in locomotives. The general dislocation would, however, be very serious and  Vital and Vulnerable 155  would certainly cut our production of steel products down materially and would be a source of grave disturbance to our