mbling and finishing plants; through a long chain of operations, with many stops on the way, before the completed article is ready for final delivery. And everywhere there must be available— Power. Without power the whole vast machine comes to a jarring halt.  146 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  ‘This system is highly sensitive in peace. A strike in a small obscure fac- tory producing door latches for automobiles stopped production in many automobile factories all over the United States. A spring flood in Pittsburgh stopped the production of airplanes in California as well as in other sections of the country. If this is true of our industrial machine in peace, when it is under minimum load, if it is this sensitive then, how sensitive will it be dur- ing war when it is under maximum pressure?  ‘The application of the additional pressure necessary to cause a break- down—a collapse—of this industrial machine by the destruction of some vital link or links in the chain that ties it together, constitutes one of the pri- mary, basic objectives of an air force—in fact, it is the opinion of the School that this is the maximum contribution of which an air force is capable to- wards the attainment of the ultimate aim in war.  If there is any one point that the study of air attack on the National Eco- nomic Structure impresses upon us, outstandingly, it is that the objectives to be attacked in this type of an air offensive are not to be selected on the morn- ing of the attack. The future general of our air forces will not, I hope, be faced with the decision that must select either bridges or refineries for the next air mission. Let us hope that war does not find him bent over a map in his tent, trying to pick out the vulnerable points to be hit by his attacking force. The picture is to be quite the contrary, I think.  Complete information concerning the targets that comprise this objec- tive is available and should be gathered during peace. Only by a careful anal- ys