ll AFB: Air Corps Tactical  School, 1935), table 1, AFHRA, A2686: Pursuit & Bombardment Texts, 1925-1940,  1168.  in Hawaii in 1929; in the bombing of the Pee Dee River bridge in 1927; in the bombing in the Joint Army-Navy Exercises off Langley Field last Fall; and every other time when the bombardment component of the Army Air Corps has been forced into a conspicuous responsible bombing test, the errors have been considerably smaller than those listed in the Table 4.1 that was current at the time of those tests. Arbitrarily reducing those errors would be a neat but not effective method of talking ourselves out of the hole this table has placed us in. This table is the Air Corps’ story and we are stuck with it.  This School, and eventually the Bombardment Section, is asked almost weekly how accurate the Mark I bomb sight is, how many bombs it takes to hit a battleship, and other very short and simple questions. The source of these very clear, very direct, and very embarrassing questions is frequently some imposing personage ranging from the Commandant of the Command  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombardment 123  and General Staff School or the Army War College to the Chief of the Air Corps.  By this time, you will know that the answers to these questions are: (1) Nobody knows; (2) Depending upon the situation, the number of bombs required to hit anything varies from a very small number to a very large number. These obvious answers are the only ones that have not been given to these questions.  Until two or three years ago, such questions were answered by reference to this Table 4.1, which has appeared in all Bombardment texts prior to the one issued to this class.  ‘These errors tabulated in this old Table 4.1 are a precise statement of the errors actually measured in seven annual bombing matches at Langley Field, Virginia. Old Table 4.1 is the only record of D-1 and D-4 accuracy. This bombing was done by picked and carefully selected teams. One team was selecte