lating the bombing probabilities, the next critical question was to determine what tar- gets should be attacked. The next chapter addresses this issue by specifying the vital and vulnerable infrastructure nodes that, if disabled, would paralyze the enemy's wartime economy and wrest from it its capability and/or will to resist.  Vital and Vulnerable  NATIONAL ECONOMIC STRUCTURE AND New YorK INDUSTRIAL AREA  By the late 1930s, the combination of the B-17 and the Norden bombsight had finally provided the Air Corps with a technological solution for the conduct of long-range, independent air operations. The next question to consider was what targets should be attacked to effectively and efficiently bring about vic- tory from the air. Donald Wilson first provided the ACTS solution to this targeting problem with his two lectures “National Economic Structure” and “New York Industrial Area.” The US foreign policy of isolationism had dis- couraged offensive war planning against potential adversaries and thereby prevented the Air Corps from obtaining intelligence on Germany or Japan. Wilson instead took a different tack, analyzing the extent to which America’s economic infrastructure was most vulnerable to enemy attack. Specifically, he identified where US industrial capacity was most concentrated, the power sources required to operate these factories, and the transportation networks needed to link production.  Whereas in “National Economic Structure” the focus was on how an en- emy nation might target the United States, in “New York Industrial Area” the main point was that other modern states, with the exception of Russia, did not have the continental size and dispersed economic structure of the United States. Great Britain, France, Germany, and Japan concentrated their eco- nomic and political power in their capitals. The lecture analyzes New York City as an example of how to determine what to target in a metropolis.  Regrettably, only rough outlines of Wilson's original 193