ts forced bombers to fly at higher altitude, a maneuver that further decreased the accuracy of the Norden bombsight. Passive defensive measures employ- ing decoys, camouflage, and smoke screens further affected bombing accu- racy by making target identification more difficult.»  Even more degrading to US bomber accuracy than the enemy’s defens- es was the impact of weather over England and Germany. Weather condi- tions limited the number of days bombers could launch from England and find unobscured skies over Germany. Eighth Air Force’s weather abort rate was only 10.4 percent but, of the missions launched, only half were able to bomb visually. Daytime weather conditions over Germany during the winter proved particularly onerous. By November 1943, Eighth Air Force effectively abandoned the pretense of precision bombing when ordered by General Ar- nold to bomb through overcast conditions if need be. Eighth Air Force ad- opted radar bombing techniques that in practice resulted in area bombing and proved to be even less accurate than the night tactics adopted by Bomber Command.”  HADPB could not be conducted through cloud cover, a limitation that prevented the systematic attack of the vital economic nodes that the ACTS theorists believed would paralyze the German war economy. Only during the summer months was the weather dependable enough to attempt a high- altitude visual bombing campaign, but the United States squandered its first opportunity in the summer of 1943. A combination of delayed aircraft pro- duction and the dispersion of aircraft to other theaters limited the number of bombers available to Eighth Air Force.” But even if Eighth Air Force had had more bombers in the fall of 1943, Germany's early-warning radar and integrated air defense system had by then so shifted the offense-defense bal- ance in favor of the defense that daylight unescorted bombing raids would have proven unsustainable. The following summer of 1944 was likewise a lost opportunity for Eigh