r war time procurement and not with the effects of an enemy air offensive:  In attempting to provide additional power when a shortage develops in an emergency, the following must be borne in mind: (a) Since the construction of transmission lines is slow and expensive and a transmission of power for long distances is accompanied by large line losses, construction of expensive new transmission systems in time of war should not be counted on. The most practical method of providing additional power in a given area is by constructing new generating capacity in the area. (b) Since the construction of a large hydroelectric plant will require from four to five years the main re- liance for additional power must be placed on new fuel plants. (c) Unless prior plans and housing facilities exist new steam generating equipment cannot be installed in less than eighteen months. If such prior arrangements have been made a limited amount of equipment could be built and installed in about nine months. (d) The capac- ity of the manufacturing companies capable of producing suitable boilers, turbines, generators and other heavy equipment is decidedly limited.  In conclusion I wish to emphasize the importance of power in war time. Our past experiences and our annual surveys have shown that we may expect difficulties and shortages of power in various areas in the event of a major emergency in the future. We must not only continue our present planning activities but we must improve on them in every way possible.  Vital and Vulnerable 161  Now let us turn back to our vital industrial area. Study of the Federal Power Commission Chart shows there are roughly forty-nine power plants of 50,000 kilowatts or greater capacity in this area. Some of these individual power plants are very large indeed. Individual power plants exist in the United States capable of producing and distributing as much as a million, eight hun- dred thousand, horsepower apiece. While there are many more smaller plants they