ne the causes of bombing errors and the means of their elimination or reduction.  c. The steps to be taken in the accomplishment of these two in- vestigations are quite similar and can properly be undertaken by the same section. As this study is of a continuing nature, the results of which should be disseminated periodically, the personnel should be permanently employed.  d. The composition of this section should initially comprise a physicist with two clerical assistants. The qualifications required of the physicist are those of a high quality research analyst with espe- cial ability in original physical research. The necessary qualifications of the two clerical assistants include the ability to strip and select data and prepare accurate curves therefrom.  129  130  LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  e. The organization, direction, and supervision of this section should be a responsibility of the Air Corps Board. A considerable interest on the part of the Ordnance Department in the operation of this section of the Board is to be expected. The operation of this section of the Board bears directly on the Ordnance function of the design, development, and procurement of those bombs which are required by the Air Corps. Aside from this single aspect, all other findings of this section of the Board will pertain solely to the Air Corps. The Material Division will show considerable interest in the operation of this section of the Board when findings of the analysis of bombing records indicate shortcomings in bomb sights, bomb racks, and other items of bombardment equipment. Bombardment units will be particularly interested when findings point the way to material improvements in bombing training and technique. The Air Corps Tactical School, all bombardment units, and all other agen- cies concerned with the employment of bombardment aviation will be intimately affected by the findings of this section of the Board, through the practical tactical use of the bombing prob