e than the D-1 and D-4 bomb sights to outweigh all these con- siderations—training, altitude, approach, speed, airplane, and weather—and still permit us to emerge with the belief that we can hit anything at all? We believe that it is. Fortunately, we will not be forced to make arbitrary reduc- tions in an old table. We are building new tables.  Let us here take up one of the questions most frequently asked. How much more accurate is the Mk. I bomb sight than the old D-1 or D-4 bomb sight? You have seen that the only basis on which to compare D-4 is a far cry from tactical bombing. We have one test which we believe may be accepted as conclusive in providing an answer to this question.  Lieutenants Kilpatrick and Sullivan, in the 2d Bombardment Group at Langley Field, were enthusiastic, intelligent, interested bombardiers. When the Mk. I bomb sight was first made available to them, they mounted that bomb sight in a Keystone airplane and proceeded to bomb under exactly the  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombardment 125  same conditions that these Annual Match bombing errors were determined. While these two were, at that time, above average, they had had very little practice with this bomb sight. They were without doubt below average in skill of average bombardiers today. Comparatively they were far below the average of the bombing teams in the Annual Matches. As a result of their bombing we may make the following statement: “Under practically identical condi- tions of bombing, circular probable errors actually determined with the D-4 bomb sight have been reduced by the Mk. I bomb sight, at 5,000 feet, from 142 feet to 21 feet, and at 8,000 feet, from 238 feet to 28 feet. On an average these errors have actually been reduced to % the previous errors. This aver- age represents a reduction in Probable Error of 87.2 percent.”  Another and more comprehensive statement may be made of the re- lationship of current bombing accuracy with former bombing accuracy: “Bombing err