s already being waged by the two allies. The stated objec- tive was “the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German mili- tary, industrial and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened.” The statement captured both the USAAF aim to attack the German war economy and Bomber Command's objective of targeting the German population. The target list prioritized submarine construction yards, aircraft industry, transportation, oil plants, and other targets of the enemy war industry. The memorandum further encouraged both day and night bombing to maintain pressure on German morale, to attrit the Luft- waffe fighter force and draw fighters away from the Russian and Mediter- ranean theaters, to support operations in the Mediterranean, and to prepare for the invasion of the Continent."”  204 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  British bombing in the spring of 1943 focused on the Germans’ industrial Ruhr Valley, and by the summer of 1943, airstrikes had capped the expansion of Nazi war production. A major turning point in the Combined Bomber Offensive, however, came in late July 1943 with the bombing of Hamburg. A dry, hot summer had set conditions for a major firestorm when incendi- ary bombs struck Hamburg. The flames engulfed the city, killing and injur- ing a staggering 80,000 inhabitants, destroying a quarter of a million homes, and leaving 900,000 homeless. The operational success of the Hamburg raid encouraged Bomber Command to turn its attention further east to launch massive raids against Berlin in November in an effort to knock the German capital out of the war.”  TESTING HIGH-ALTITUDE DAYLIGHT PRECISION BOMBING  Like Bomber Command, after Hamburg Eighth Air Force conducted strikes progressively deeper into Germany. Unlike Bomber Command, which in- tentionally targeted cities, Eighth Air Force aimed at fighter aircraft factories and ball bearing plant