onomy, divert- ing equipment and personnel from the Eastern Front, and compelling the Germans to prioritize the production of fighter aircraft, anti-aircraft artillery, and revenge weapons.” These ex post claims are largely inaccurate. Each ar- gument will be analyzed in turn.  Keeping the Soviet Union in the War  One argument on the efficacy of strategic bombing is that the Combined Bomber Offensive maintained the cohesion of the Grand Alliance at a critical juncture by dissuading Stalin from making a peace deal with Hitler.’ Roo- sevelt had promised a second front on the Continent but by the summer of 1942, Churchill and Roosevelt had concluded that an invasion was not feasible until 1943 at the earliest.” Instead, the US Army would first join the British Army in the North African campaign and the USAAF would join Bomber Command in England for the CBO. In August 1942, Churchill trav- eled to Moscow to break the news to Stalin. To cushion the blow, Churchill offered a strategic bombing campaign as an alternative to a second front, arguing that the bombing of cities and attacking wartime industries would weaken Germany and compel Hitler to divert men and equipment from the Eastern Front to defend the homeland. Personally, Churchill was skeptical of the efficacy of strategic bombing since the Butt Report the previous year had exposed the ineptness of Bomber Command. Still, strategic bombing pro- vided Churchill the rhetoric to use with Stalin, and with the British public: that the British and Americans were taking the fight directly to Germany. ‘The key to the belief that the CBO kept the Soviet Union in the war hinges not only on the question of whether Stalin was mollified by the Brit- ish and American strategic bombing campaigns but also on the matter of whether he ever had the opportunity to make a peace deal with Hitler. Stalin, in fact, was never satisfied with the CBO as a substitute for a second front, which remained the Soviet’s top priority for the Grand Al