and the end desired, rather than the blind following of a method originally devised for some other set of condi- tions. Even today you will find those who would employ the different charac- teristics of air forces as though these were the same as ground or naval forces.  Surprise If there is any one factor that will produce large dividends it is this one—the Principle of Surprise. Surprise plays on the human characteristic of fear of the unknown. We all are likely to exaggerate the effect of anything which oc- curs suddenly and without warning. There are many examples in war where avery small force appearing at an unexpected place has caused havoc. A sur- prise formation defeated the Romans at Cannae. The surprise of the subma- rine almost defeated Great Britain in the last war. Apparently the surprise of air force action and its effect was a prime factor in the rapid defeat of Poland.  We should note from the Polish incident that surprise methods and weapons work very well on the national scale. Surprise is not confined to local engagements on the battlefield. However, we note that surprise is often neglected on the national scale, particularly by the “have” nations.  If we know definitely that our national structure would be attacked, say in ten or twenty years, and that our enemy would place his main dependence in air attack, we would now go about the job of rearranging that structure and its defenses to best meet such an attack. On the other hand, if we adhere to the belief that the war must be decided on the high seas or in the mud, and along comes a serious attack against our “home front,” we may be suffi- ciently surprised, shocked, and damaged to be unmistakably defeated. Just as complete and effective surprises have been wrought in past warfare. Human reaction is the most permanent element in all history. It is the element upon which surprise is registered. Hence, the factor of surprise will always be a most powerful weapon.  Security  Security or protectio