ing force. Continued fears that Germany would escalate its strategic bombing campaign convinced the British government to create the independent Royal Air Force on April 1, 1918."  British airmen had been brooding over how to bomb Germany since the first Zeppelin raids. On September 3, 1917, Major Lord Tiverton presented the first long-range operational plan to target four clusters of cities compris- ing Germany's key war industries. American officers had been observers within the British forces even before the United States’ entry into the war in 1917. US Army Major Edgar Gorrell recycled Tiverton’s plan in a November 1917 report that became the United States’ first strategic bombing plan.'?  ‘The implementation of a long-range bombing strategy, however, proved challenging for the British and beyond the capability of the United States. In October 1917, the Royal Flying Corps No. 41 Wing was tasked with reprisal raids, but struggled throughout the winter with bad weather, unsuitable air- craft, and poorly trained pilots. Renamed the Independent Force (IF) in June, its commander, Major General Hugh Trenchard, could muster no more than a handful of bombers for raids on Germany, and these aviators had difficulty navigating their way to assigned targets and even more trouble hitting the targets they did manage to locate. By war's end, the IF had primarily bombed airfields and railroads, while only 16% of strikes were scattered across the industrial targets in western Germany within range of the British bombers.*  After the war the British, German, and American military staffs inde- pendently conducted bombing surveys to evaluate the impact British bomb- ing had had on German wartime production. The British report, conducted under the watchful eye of Trenchard, concluded that while the material dam- age from bombing had been minor, the effect on German worker morale had been extensive. The report concluded that the threat of air raids had signifi- cantly disrupted produc