livery. Yet despite the centrality of shipping to the Japanese economy, Hansell resisted. It would take LeMay to implement the aerial mining campaign, in part because it took relatively little effort and few resources and he had excessive capacity with his expanding B-29 force.”  ACTS Contribution to Victory  As with the war against Germany, HADPB did not independently win the war as the ACTS theorists had hoped, though it did significantly contribute to victory. Prewar, HADPB provided the justification to plan for a long-range bomber force. The acquisition process for the B-29, the most technologically sophisticated weapon system of World War II, commenced two years before the United States’ entry into the war. Though large numbers of B-29 bombers would not be available until the winter of 1944-1945, without the intellectual and procurement efforts by the Air Corps prior to the war, there would have been no B-29s in 1945 to compel Japan to surrender without an invasion. B- 29s may not have been successful in executing HADPB, but the bombers did make a significant contribution to the war’s outcome through the aerial min- ing of Japanese domestic shipping lanes, the firebombing of Japanese cities, and ultimately, the dropping of the atomic bomb.”  This chapter highlighted both the limitations and the accomplishments of American strategic bombing in World War II and the critical role the Air Corps Tactical School’s unique theory of HADPB played in airmen’s think- ing leading up to and throughout the war. The predictions of early air power theorists that the advent of the aircraft had changed the very nature of war may have been exaggerated, but the new technology had changed the char- acter of warfare forever. As witnessed in the European and Pacific theaters, victory did not come about by air power alone, but through the combined effects of air, land, and sea forces.  Still, the central tenet of the ACTS theorists that independent air action could decisively win wars