he economic structure of some of the other great powers would probably give a far different answer in this respect than in the case of the United States. Such an analysis might very possibly come out with the answer that in some cases the denial of imports of essential materials would constitute the vital and most vulnerable element—one that was well within the capacity of the force and which would be quickly and conclusively decisive.  We will resume our analysis of the economic structure of this outstand- ing industrial country—the United States—after the usual intermission and we will continue our efforts to find the vital and vulnerable link which surely must exist somewhere in this great economic structure.  Having sketchily surveyed the economic factors involved in the geographic and external situation of the United States, let us turn our attention to the internal economic structure of the country. We have noted the fact that the United States leads the world in industrial capacity. We will take a quick look at a few of the outstanding factors that go to make up that great industrial capacity and see if we can locate some link in the chain which is at the same time both vital and vulnerable to air attack.  One of the most important industrial factors in the United States is the industry concerned with the production and the refining of petroleum. Pe- troleum is essential to modern war. Air forces, and mechanized and mo- torized forces, would be helpless without its products. Should it be possible to deny oil to a nation, its ability to wage modern war would be seriously interfered with, if not completely terminated. Also this denial would cause a breakdown in the transportation and distributing system of the nation, which is dependent, at point of origin and destination, upon motor truck operation. Such a breakdown would impose tremendous pressure upon the civil population, especially in the great cities.  Vital and Vulnerable 153  ‘The United States leads th