omings from the Chief of the Air Corps. There were a series of official communications and numerous personal visits apprising the Chief’s Office of the fact that very little of the potential value of these bombing records was being extracted by The Air Corps Tactical School. The last and culminating official communication on this subject was dated about two years ago. It is believed desirable to quote a few paragraphs from the important paper. It was labeled “Confidential” and addressed to the Chief of the Air Corps.  CONFIDENTIAL  B. PROJECT FOR ANALYSIS OF BOMBING RECORDS. 1, NECESSITY THEREFOR.  @. BOMBARDMENT TACTICS.  (1) Effectiveness of force.—That the effectiveness of a bombard- ment force varies with its bombing accuracy is immediately evident. ‘The degree of this variation is far greater than initial consideration might indicate. For example, prior to the advent of the Mark I bomb sights, the best available data indicated that about 10 squadrons would have been required to obtain a practical certainty of destroy- ing the locks in the Sault Ste. Marie Canal. Since the advent of the Mark I bomb sight, probable errors have been reduced to about one- third of their previous magnitude. With this increase in bombing accuracy, only 15 airplanes would be required to obtain the same results under similar circumstances. Here a reduction in probable error to one-third has increased the effectiveness of bombardment almost six times. In this particular example if the probable error is reduced to one-quarter the original error, the effectiveness of that bombardment unit would, as a consequence, be increased 17 times. With this example, it is immediately apparent that detailed informa-  128  LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  tion on “M-day bombing accuracy” is of tremendous importance to the bombardment commander, and to the commander of any higher unit which is directing the employment of bombardment aviation.  (2) Training of bombardiers.—The variations in bom