E TASK (Condensed from ABC-1 & Rainbow 5) 1. To wage sustained air offensive against Germany in order to: a. Reduce Axis surface and sub-surface operations. b. Restrict Axis air operations. c. Undermine German combat effectiveness by deprivation of essential supplies, production and communication facilities. d. Permit and support a final invasion of Germany. 2. To conduct air operations in strategic defensive in the Orient. 3. To provide air action essential to the security of the continental United States, our possessions and Western Hemisphere.  ACTION NECESSARY TO ACCOMPLISH THE TASK (Air Estimate) 1. Operations against Germany. a. Disrupt major portion of electric power, destroy 50 selected targets. b. Disrupt German transportation, 47 selected targets. c. Destroy 80% of synthetic petroleum establishments, 27 selected targets. d. Destroy principal airplane assembly plants, 18 selected targets. e. Destroy 90% of sources of aluminum, 6 selected targets. f. Destroy major source of magnesium, 6 selected targets. (Total selected targets to destroy & keep destroyed) 154. g- Provide air support for Army-Navy and joint action incidental to inva- sion of Germany. 2. Strategic Defensive Operations Against Japan. a. Apply air action over northern approach to China seas.  AWPD-1 = 233  b. Attack or threaten sources of military and civil strength in Japan.  3. Defense of cities’ exposed factories, naval and air bases and other criti- cal establishments in the continental United States, each possession and throughout Western Hemisphere against hit-and-run attacks by carriers or flying deckers, against internal disturbances within the Western Hemi- sphere and action against more remote possibility of the establishment of bases by small hostile forces.  FORCES REQUIRED TO ACCOMPLISH THE TASK IN OPERATIONS  AGAINST GERMANY.  (BASIS—Onur ability to hit the selected targets will fall off in the same pro-  portion when we move from our peacetime range to actual operations as  the R