in order to destroy the vital and vulnerable economic targets identified in AWPD-1. The acceptance of AWPD-1 by President Roosevelt in late 1941 initiated the production of the B-17s and B-24s that arrived month- ly by the hundreds in England and the Mediterranean in late 1943 and early 1944. Without the ACTS theory as a blueprint, the United States would not have generated the capacity to conduct a long-range air offensive.”  During the interwar period, only British and American airmen made strategic bombing central to their respective air power doctrines.” Both pri- oritized the development of four-engine bombers capable of long ranges and carrying heavy bomb loads. By contrast, the Luftwaffe, which adopted a com- bined arms doctrine for the continental land wars it anticipated, had only a medium-range bomber force at its disposal. Although the United States did not have an air force in being at the outset of the war, the Air Corps’ interwar technological development of the B-17 enabled the United States to quickly generate an offensive bomber fleet.  Attaining Air Superiority over Europe  The daytime bombing of Germany played a crucial role in the United States gaining air superiority over Europe. Luftwaffe fighter attrition had been high but bearable since the invasion of France in 1940. In early 1944, however, the losses proved unsustainable when Eighth Air Force bombers returned in mass over Germany accompanied by lethal long-range fighter escorts.” German fighter losses, which had hovered at 30 percent per month during the fall and winter of 1943, spiked in March 1944 to 56.4 percent and re-    210 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Republic P-47 Thunderbolt with external drop tank, circa 1944.  mained between 43 percent and 50 percent through the Normandy landings in June.*  Though it was USAAF fighters that inflicted the deathblow on the Luft- waffe, it would be a mistake to consider Eighth Air Force bombers immate- rial to the attainment of air sup