that not only must we have a proper strategic conception of how our means is to be employed, but we must see that the force provided has the capacity to accomplish our purpose. If we have not the capacity to accomplish what we set out to do—it will be better to accept another and less desirable mission until our capacity is equal to the task.  50 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  If we are to profit by the lessons of the past and prepare ourselves in advance to make the best and most efficient use of this new means of waging war, it is apparent that first of all it is necessary to examine the whole ques- tion of Air Power and its application.  Now Air Power we have defined as the immediate ability of a nation to wage Air Warfare. It is rather like naval power in this respect, in that it is Air Power in being, and not potential Air Power, which is to be considered. We are all aware that no matter what the potential capacity of a nation to create naval power may be, it is the fleet in being that is decisive. The same is true of Air Power. There is no possibility of throwing out covering forces and fight- ing delaying actions in Air Warfare while we prepare behind this defensive screen.  If an enemy has the power to strike us in Air Warfare, without effective counter measures on our part, he has the immediate power of preventing us from preparing to oppose him, in addition to taking other effective action against us. It is apparent therefore that Air Power to be effective must be in being at the time it is required and that we cannot count with safety upon improvising or mobilizing it after the need for its use has arisen.  We might, in passing, consider what the strength of the Air Power of ma- jor nations may be. Historically it is interesting to note that during the course of the World War, Great Britain alone produced a total of some 57,000 air- planes, and that at the end of war, she had some 22,000 in commission. While these were small light airplanes, n