est the ACTS theory of strategic bombing. The ACTS faculty, led by Har- old George, Donald Wilson, and Kenneth Walker, had developed a theory of strategic bombing based on the unescorted daylight bombing of the vital nodes of an enemy nation’s economy. In August 1941, the newly formed Air War Plans Division (AWPD), led by George and assisted by Walker and two other former ACTS faculty members, Haywood Hansell and Laurence Kuter, was provided the rare opportunity to test the theory in AWPD-1, the US air campaign plan for war against Germany and Japan.  In the concluding chapter of this book, I examine how these airmen turned theory into practice and assess how the bomber forces they creat- ed contributed to the Allied victory. Over the past two decades there have been several important revisionist historical works that much improve our understanding of the impact air power had on World War II. I rely heavily on these works, which include such must-reads as Tami Biddle’s Reality and Rhetoric in Air Warfare (2002), Adam Tooze’s Wages of Destruction (2006), Mark Clodfelter’s Beneficial Bombing (2010), Richard Overy’s Bomber and the Bombed (2013), and Phillips O’Brien’s How the War Was Won (2015).  When I commenced this project, one of my questions concerned the qualifications of the ACTS faculty. What intellectual capacity, either through education or combat experience, did these airmen have to develop a theory for how air power could independently cause a modern industrial nation to lose the will and means to fight? Overall, they were well educated. All but one, Kenneth Walker, had a college education, and Harold George had a law degree. Several had technical backgrounds, including Wilson, Hansell, and Kuter. Kuter was the sole West Point graduate. While they were all expe- rienced aviators, they had almost no combat experience. Only George had fought in World War I, but only in the last week of the war. None were trained as economists, political scientists, or histori