for the flexible guns of the defensive formation to fire with any degree of accuracy.  We are sure that neither of these views is correct.  We are not sure of how best to establish any basis of comparison.  On the inside cover of the Air Force Text of the Army War College there is a quotation attributed to Lieutenant General von der Goltz. This quotation may be found in the preface to the Fifth Edition of the works of this illustri- ous gentleman, a work which he wrote in 1883, entitled The Nation in Arms. This quotation reads: “It has been my endeavor to trace the developments in the range of military operations in conjunction with the older ones and to de- termine their influence on martial events. Progress along such a course may be less dashing and rapid than a surrender to the flight of fancy and a visionary forecast of the coming events, but the prospect of safely reaching one’s goal will certainly be much brighter.”  This quotation is interesting because it is a practical line of approach to this discussion. If we follow this sage advice of studying the old, we should  The Bomber Always Gets Through 101  evaluate the lessons of the World War insofar as they apply to our subject— modifying such evaluation by considering the trends in such operations in wars since the World War.  It is, however, rather strange to add that this Prussian General whose service extended from the Franco-Prussian War to the eve of the World War surrendered to a flight of fancy by advocating that fortresses be made mobile by the use of prefabricated parts of iron and steel which “form a whole and which are capable of transference from place to place.”  And perhaps as a visionary forecaster of the coming of air power and mechanization he prophesied in 1883: “The day will come when the present aspect of war will dissolve, when forms, customs and opinions will again be altered. Looking forward into the future, we seem to feel the coming of a time when the armed millions of the present wi