reasoning then that we can use to arrive at any conclusions as to the percentage of the missions that will completely evade pursuit and suffer no losses at all? Any answer to this question will depend on the pro- verbial situation.  We have no way of evaluating this factor. We can set general maximum and minimum limits only. In the case of strong defensive effectiveness, such as the attack of a well defended air base with all local defense agencies with an efficient interception net, it is not unreasonable to expect a very high per- centage of the striking force missions intercepted. Once air combat has been forced upon such a force we can expect maximum losses. On the other hand, in the attack of objectives where an aircraft interception net cannot be made available, such as in the defense of a coastal city or a naval vessel, we cer- tainly expect a very small percentage of the striking force penetrations to be intercepted on the advance to the objective and must figure on the effects of interception after the bombing has been completed.  After a little serious study of this defense problem it is difficult to remain unbiased.  There are certain factors which we believe will hinder the tactical defensive  The Bomber Always Gets Through 109  from obtaining any such combat numerical superiority as 1.5 to 1, when we set up a certain set of conditions. Air offensive operations on the whole cannot be made unprofitable when we consider a tactical defense on any kind of a broad scale. We believe that there are three factors of sufficient importance that alone will definitely prove this contention; first, the influence of weather on both the air tactical offensive and on the air tactical defensive; second, the influence of the relative speed between bomber and fighter; and, third, the influence upon the defense of time, position and the number of objectives to be defended.  Let us consider the first—weather. Weather is a natural resistance—and outside the scope of this lect