equired combat airplanes are manufactured for the Army Air Forces, personnel can be trained to man and to operate those air forces as soon as the combat airplanes can be manufactured.  The Army Air Forces are prepared to accomplish their mission in the defeat of our potential enemies as soon as American aviation industry can manufacture the required airplanes.  AIR OPERATIONS OTHER THAN THOSE DIRECTED AGAINST GER- MANY PROPER  (Army Air Force munitions requirement to defeat our potential enemies) STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE: To defeat Germany (and her Allies).  ARMY AIR FORCE TASKS: (In addition to operations against Germany proper)  a. To provide air action essential to the security of the continental United States, our possessions and the Western Hemisphere.  b. To combat air operations in strategic defensive in the Orient.  c. To provide close support to the ground forces during training, defensive operations and eventual invasion.  FORCES REQUIRED TO ACCOMPLISH THE TASKS:  a. Security. The forces provide the minimum coverage required to— (1) Protect vital economic and military objectives against carrier, flying deck or land based air attack; (2) Defend the Pacific Triangle, Alaska and approaches to the Panama Canal; (3) Acquire data and information essential for all out defense in the event of a forced retirement from the European Theatre.  ‘The forces set up are minimum. Note that the forces include only 5 Bom-  AWPD-1 247  bardment Groups in the continental United States and that coverage in South America is very thin.  Pursuit forces are set up to provide limited defense over the areas indi- cated and to defend bombardment bases.  Total Force Required:  Bombardment 25 Groups 1,700 Airplanes (Not including De- pot Reserve)  Pursuit 32 Groups 4,160 Airplanes (Not including De- pot Reserve)  In addition to these units, 8 Groups of Heavy Bombardment must be available as general reserve until maximum output of airplanes and pilots is underway.  b, Strategic Defensive in O