to put a maxi- mum of forty airplanes in the air.  The number of squadrons which will operate against a particular target  The Bomber Always Gets Through 89  will depend upon the type of objective and the hostile opposition expected. It is impossible to determine, in the abstract, the strength which must be employed against any particular type of target. It will, to use the overworked phrase, “depend upon the situation.” However, bombardment tactics are de- veloped with a view to the proper employment of whatever number of air- planes must be used to accomplish a mission, rather than being based upon specific types of objectives which bombardment aviation will attack. The tactics developed are adapted primarily to the squadron and group organiza- tion. When more than one group is employed against a particular objective, the wing tactics consist of one group guiding upon the other, maintaining such intervals as are necessary for coordinated action and mutual support.  Bombardment aviation employs two types of airplanes; the heavy bom- bardment airplane capable of carrying a 2,400-pound bomb load; the light bombardment airplane capable of a 1,100-pound bomb load. Ordinarily the units equipped with the heavy bombers will operate at night. Those equipped with the light bombers will operate in daytime. Each, however, are suitable for and may operate both day and night. While at the present time the heavy bombardment airplanes only are in service use, light bombardment airplanes are under construction. The heavy bomber must be capable of high speed of at least 125 miles per hour and must have a radius of at least 300 miles; the light bomber a high speed of 160 miles per hour and a radius of action of 200 miles. Each bomber is twin-engined—one engine placed outboard on either side of the fuselage. In the nose of the fuselage extending forward of the leading edge of the wings, are placed the pilot, the bomber and the front gunner. In the rear portion of the fuselage are loc