n't the time to go over this ground. I would like, however, to speak briefly about the German efforts toward Air Warfare because this is the only complete historical back- ground we have and it will be interesting to refer to some conclusions to be drawn from these efforts later on in the course.  ‘The first effort in Air Warfare was the German airship raids on Eng- land. These were begun in January 1915, and during that year twenty attacks were made, in the largest of which five airships started and four actually got over England. Thirty-nine tons of bombs were dropped, most of which fell in open fields, apparently because the airship commanders either could not determine where they were, or were unable to bomb with any accuracy. Let us note in passing that a formation of ten B-17’s would carry in a single mis- sion all of these bombs that were dropped on England during the first year of Air Warfare.  During 1916 twenty-two attacks were made, in the largest of which six- teen airships started and fourteen got over England. Bombing results were not much better. No objectives of any vital importance were hit. About 130 tons of bombs altogether were dropped, or considerably less than the capacity of one group mission of B-175.  By the end of 1916 the airship had been virtually defeated by the de- fense organization, on account of its extreme vulnerability. Throughout, the attacks were completely ineffective as to actual destruction of vital objectives. Some 500 people were killed and about 1,200 injured. Property damage was confined largely to small houses destroyed, particularly in London.  ‘That sounds like a pretty sorry record. But I would like to quote to you some passages from the British Official History of the War, Volume III.  ‘The operations of the German airships over this country have been set down in some detail as a matter of historical record. The reader cannot fail to have been struck by the comparative ineffectiveness of the attacks, but it would be m