mated that there are as many as 400,000 people under- ground at one time either being transported or waiting for transportation.  I would like you to bear in mind this picture of transportation within the metropolitan district as I shall come back to this point a little later.  In the meantime, however, let's turn our attention briefly to another el- ement that is vital in the life of every great city—water supply—its water system. There is no necessity of developing the essential nature of an abun- dant supply of pure water, not only for drinking and cooking but for sanitary purposes and fire fighting. Without an adequate water supply there would have been no New York, nor could there continue to be a New York were it  Vital and Vulnerable 169  deprived of this essential element. Even if the supply were so reduced as to make it insufficient, it would cause the greatest hardship and would doubtless require at least partial evacuation of the city.  Let us take a look at the New York City water system and see what it is like and how vulnerable it is to interruption by air attack.  [Here the speaker refers to a display chart of the New York water system, now lost.]  There are three main sources, which altogether are barely equal to the demand. The Catskill source—510 million gallons daily. The Croton source—300 million gallons daily. Small streams and wells on Long Is- land—210 million gallons daily. The Catskill supply is by far the most impor- tant and furnishes over half the total supply. It starts at the Schoharie water shed 120 miles from New York. The Schoharie reservoir collects the waters of this water shed and they are taken from it through the Shandakten tunnel under the mountains and poured into Esopus Creek which conducts the wa- ters to the Ashokan reservoir—here the Catskill aqueduct proper starts and runs over 80 miles into New York City.  ‘The dams of these two reservoirs are of massive construction and do not offer a particularly good target for air at