e Japan in coal, chromite or tungsten, or Russia in coal and iron, is not particularly impressive if applied to the normal con- sumption capacity of American industry.  Note the factor of power shown in the second column. This factor is of conclusive importance in industry. Please note particularly the dominating position of the United States in this respect. Note also that in power we are completely self-sufficient, since this power is derived from three sources— water power, which, of course, is our own—coal and petroleum, of which we not only have a great sufficiency but an exportable surplus. Note the position of the other great nations in this respect.  The United States, even with such a generous supply of raw materials within its borders, still imports from all over the world other raw materials it needs in its manufacturing operations, and pays for these materials with finished articles. With about seven percent of the people of the world we do about one-half of the world’s work. We can do this because our daily output of power is about 13.5 horsepower hours per capita, as compared, for ex-  150 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  ample, with less than one for Brazil and Peru. Another factor which enables us to accomplish so much is that about 22% of the people of the Nation can raise the food and vegetable fibers to feed and clothe the whole Nation; thus leaving 78% free to take part in commerce or industry, or to fight a war, if necessary. This 22% compares with about 40% to feed Germany, 45% for France, 65% for Italy, and 80% for Russia, which must be “on the land” Due to the horsepower helping an American workman, and to his own training and skill, he is equal to two Frenchmen, or nearly two Germans, or three Italian workmen, or three and one-half Russians, as measured by the actual work accomplished. These conditions cause the United States to use about one-half of the raw materials of the world.  Although this nation is the most self-contained o