le of its people finally broke when they could see no hope of victory for its military forces. It was not the defeat of its military forces which broke the will to resist; it was the continuance of a condition, without any hope of change, which finally became more ob- jectionable than the obnoxious terms demanded by the Allies. The German Army was not defeated or destroyed. The German Navy was still in existence. It was the breakdown of the German people through the continuous denial of those things which are essential, not only for the prosecution of war but to sustain life itself, that overcame the will to resist of the German nation.  Is it the advantage of civilization to change the past method of waging war if such a change is possible? The World War was waged by the traditional military forces in the traditional military manner. It was a war which has cost to date approximately two hundred billion dollars of the world’s wealth; a war which snuffed out the lives of ten million combatants. It was a war which was nearly as costly to the victors as to the vanquished; a war which upset the economic equilibrium of the world for nearly a score of years, and resulted in the overthrow of the governments of many nations. In that war the prevail- ing idea of all parties was destruction; and in following this idea they nearly succeeded in destroying themselves.  Modern inventions—machine-guns, rapid-fire cannon, gas, etc.—have served to strengthen the means of defensive warfare and have made more difficult the waging of offensive war. Surely another similar world conflict might mean a breakdown of civilization itself. It would be a war of diabolic attrition, and in the end victory would go to the side whose internal orga- nization, whose industrial organization, whose very social system,—though undoubtedly disintegrating,—had done so less rapidly than those of the other side. But of what profit would be such a victory? The vanquished side  42 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TAC