g question as to what the mission—the purpose—of the air force is to be, and then, the subsidiary questions as to what the specific objectives are to be, that will best and most efficiently accomplish that purpose.  In your problems on ground forces you have been confronted with the typical decisions that are required of a ground force commander. They might  48 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  be summed up ina single question, “Shall I attack or defend and where, when and in what manner?” The choices are relatively limited and the particular situation usually restricts the choice to only a few practicable alternatives. Furthermore, historical precedent in land warfare furnishes a sound basis upon which rather definite principles have been established. Even so, as I have no doubt you have discovered, the decision of the ground force com- mander is not always an easy one to make.  How difficult then, may be the decision facing the air force commander, with the widest possible choice of objectives and a practically non-existent historical background! There is no doubt that the likelihood for erroneous or faulty employment of air forces is very much greater than for wrong employ- ment of ground forces.  For example, our latest bomber has a radius of action of some 2,000 miles. It is, therefore, theoretically possible for it to be employed against any objective located in the 12.5 million square miles of territory surrounding its base. This figure is, of course, meaningless in itself but it is an indication of the tremendous latitude that exists in the choice of objectives for the employ- ment of an air force.  ‘The lack of well established principles, developed from past experience, to guide the air force commander in directing the employment of his force, be- comes all the more serious as the capacity of the force and the range of choice as to its employment, increases. In the ground arms courses you were given many rather definite principles to go on and his