c and political power in their capitals. The lecture analyzes New York City as an example of how to determine what to target in a metropolis.  Regrettably, only rough outlines of Wilson's original 1936 lectures re- main. His successor, Muir Fairchild, however, expanded on Wilson's work with two superb lectures that have been preserved, except for the support-  140 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  ing charts and maps, which were so large (to enable the entire class to see them) that they could not be placed in the archive files. The tables, however, have been preserved because they were typed into the text. Together, these lectures provide the key for identifying the vital and vulnerable nodes of an industrial nation’s infrastructure which, when attacked, would result in the economic paralysis that the ACTS believed would be decisive.  National Economic Structure Major Muir S. Fairchild April 5, 1939  Gentlemen, in our conference on Air Warfare so far in the course, we have referred many times to the ability of air forces to attack the enemy nation directly.' It becomes apparent, then, that the first and basic choice in how air forces are to be employed is whether we are going to choose to do this, or whether we are going to confine ourselves to the attack of the hostile armed forces.  Before we can intelligently take up this question it is necessary for us to establish what we mean by the direct attack of the enemy national structure. Also we must try and reach some conclusions as to how we are going to go about it, and just how vulnerable such a structure is to air attack. In other words, how effective may we expect such attack to be and how are we to con- duct it. If we can reach some reasonable and logical conclusions along these lines we will be in a better position to decide between taking this course of action, and choosing the enemy armed forces as our primary objective.  Now when we speak of direct attack of an enemy national structure, I have no d