—let us quote the eminent German author, Von Clausewitz. About a century ago he entered upon a searching analysis of war. He, too, found it necessary to establish, first of all, the purpose behind armed conflict between nations, and so he defined war as “the furtherance of national policy by other means.” Let us note that war is, by no means, the only means. Von Clausewitz realized that there are nor- mal means for furthering national policy in time of peace. Von Clausewitz had in mind diplomatic, economic and financial stratagems by which nations seek to further their own policies in time of peace. It is only when all other means have failed that the conflict is continued by violence. War is not an evidence of a generative conflict between nations; it is simply an evidence that all normal means have failed to settle an old dispute. War is a further- ance of national policy by violence. Since nations find the real fulfillment of their policies in peace, the real object of war is not a continuance of violence, but the establishment of a satisfactory peace.  From the standpoint of the soldier, the object of war is the restoration of peace on terms favorable to the national policy of his own people.  What is meant by this expression, “National Policy,’ which we have so often used? It is defined by Simonds as “the strategy employed by a people to obtain prosperity, security, and racial unity.”  If we accept that definition, and we further accept Von Clausewitz’s defi- nition of war, as the conflict between national policies, then it becomes ap- parent that war is, in general, the effort of people to find, through violence, their prosperity, their security, or their racial unity.  A glance at the map of Europe, after the Treaty of Versailles, seems to authenticate that concept.  Prosperity—Security—and Racial Unity. Let us consider the first: Pros- perity. Prosperity is an expression of economics. The Great Powers today are all manufacturers. They find prosperity through