arkedly reduced German finished oil production by 42.6 percent. The loss of high-grade fuel produc- tion severely restricted Luftwaffe operations and delayed a German counter- offensive. The return of cloud cover in October and November prevented the continuation of HADPB strikes, however, and the Germans recommenced synthetic fuel production to support limited air operations and generate suf- ficient stores to launch, though not sustain, the German counteroffensive in December 1944 at the Battle of the Bulge.**  212 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Interdiction of German Forces  Finally, the USAAF interdicted German lines of communication in France and western Germany in preparation for the Normandy invasion in June 1944. The Germans had the advantage of interior lines between the Eastern and Western Fronts, which in theory meant they could more easily rede- ploy their forces between the two theaters. The disruption of the German rail transport, however, delayed the deployment of desperately needed reserves to the west. In late April, Eighth Air Force diverted its bombers to attack the transportation network in France, Belgium, and western Germany. B-17 bombers participated in the interdiction campaign, conducting visual strikes against marshalling yards when the weather permitted and employing their H2X radar bombing system when skies were overcast. Radar bombing meant in practice the area bombing of the villages and towns where the marshal- ling yards were located. Simultaneously, Allied fighters and medium-range bombers conducted more precise low-altitude attacks against rail and road bridges and destroyed rolling stock.**  ‘The impact of the Allied interdiction campaign was exacerbated by the Germans decision to keep a large number of its ground forces in reserve. In the spring of 1944 the Germans anticipated the Allied invasion, but its army leadership was split over how best to defend France. The view held by the commander in chief of the west, Gene