percent.  Veh TT  “The Aerial Bomb vs. Traction Electric Power in the New York City Area” illustrates the impact of a limited number of accurately placed bombs and the resultant reduction in traction power for the New York City metropolitan area electric rail system: three bombs reducing power to 32 percent and three more bombs reducing power to 8 percent.  176 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  dropped on the right spots, will not only take out practically all of the electric power of the entire metropolitan area but will prevent the distribution of out- side power! Let us add one bomb for the Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit plant and make it eighteen. Two squadrons of bombers, therefore, would certainly do the trick if they could bomb with 100% accuracy. You may add on your own factor for bombing probability. Whatever that factor may be, it is quite apparent that it would take no very large force to practically assure depriv- ing this whole great metropolitan area of all sources of electric power for a period of many months.  What would this mean?  First, no rapid transit; the subways out; the tunnels under the Hudson and East Rivers inoperative. Pennsylvania Terminal dead; the Grand Central Terminal partially out; the elevated railroads stopped; no trolley cars.  And what about the influence on vehicular traffic? The Holland tunnel requires electricity for ventilation. Without ventilation it cannot be used.  There would be no vertical traffic. More passengers are carried in eleva- tors than by horizontal means. This would deprive the great buildings of New York of their usefulness.  What of the influence on ports?  The unloading of vessels depends on cranes and other apparatus oper- ated by electricity. The reduction in the usefulness of the port of New York is obvious.  What of food supply?  All the perishables of New York are stored in cold storage warehouses operated by electricity. We might expect wholesale spoilage of food and in- ability to maintain an a