ctive. Otherwise a belligerent would be able to secure complete immunity for his war manufactures and depots merely by locating them in a large city, which would, in effect, become    228 Appendix 1  neutral territory—a position which the opposing belligerent would never ac- cept. What is illegitimate, as being contrary to the dictates of humanity, is the indiscriminate bombing of a city for the sole purpose of terrorising the civil- ian population. It is an entirely different matter to terrorise munition workers (men and women) into absenting themselves from work or stevedores into abandoning the loading of a ship with munitions through fear of air attack upon the factory or dock concerned. Moral effect is created by the bombing in such circumstances but it is the inevitable result of a lawful operation of war—the bombing of a military objective. The laws of warfare have never prohibited such destruction as is “imperatively demanded by the necessities of war” (Hague Rules, 1907) and the same principle which allows a belliger- ent to destroy munitions destined to be used against him would justify him also in taking action to interrupt the manufacture and movement of such munitions and thus securing the same end at an earlier stage.  Is TH1s OBJECT ONE WHICH WILL LEAD TO VICTORY, AND A CORRECT EMPLOYMENT OF AIR POWER?  Before I deal with the above heading I would like to state here that, in a war of the first magnitude with civilized nations, I do not for a moment wish to imply by the following remarks that the Air by itself can finish the war. But it will materially assist, and will be one of the many means of exercising pressure on the enemy, in conjunction with sea power and blockade and the defeat of his armies.  In pursuit of this object, air attacks will be directed against any objec- tives which will contribute effectively towards the destruction of the enemy’s means of resistance and the lowering of his determination to fight.  These objectives will be milita