ion. It is not necessary to physically occupy an area in order to render it useless to the enemy.  Those three characteristic advantages are peculiar to the air force, and to- gether contribute to the one great advantage of air warfare over older means of waging war: the ability of air forces to proceed at once to the ultimate aim. It is the part of wisdom to exploit that great advantage to the utmost. To be sure, the air force may be used to influence the conduct of surface war by surface forces. But the air force contributes its maximum effort toward successful conclusion of the war by exploiting to the utmost the advantages peculiar to air warfare.  Gentlemen, we stated earlier in this discussion that armed forces are in- struments for the furtherance of national policy. Armed forces do not shape national policy. The national need for prosperity, security, or racial unity dic- tates the composition and size of the armed forces.  Even in cases where the political head which shapes the national policy and the military head which fashions and employs the armed forces are fused into one personality—as Napoleon and Frederick the Great in the last cen- tury, or Mussolini, Hitler, or Stalin in the present—even under those cir- cumstances it is the policy essential to peace which dictates the policy for war. The national need for prosperous peace is the basis for the design of the instruments of war. The soldier is servant to the statesman.  ‘The national need may be divided into three general categories. The na- tional need may require physical acquisition; political acquiescence; or physical and political defense.  ‘That is to say, national need may require the taking and keeping of ter-  ‘The Objective of Air Warfare 83  ritory belonging to another nation, and the maintenance of political domain over the people of that territory; as an example, the need for raw materials and the internal pressure of over population caused Japan to take Manchuria and Italy to conquer E