Air Force conducted strikes progressively deeper into Germany. Unlike Bomber Command, which in- tentionally targeted cities, Eighth Air Force aimed at fighter aircraft factories and ball bearing plants in accordance with the Pointblank Directive issued in June 1943, which prioritized the attainment of air superiority in western Europe (appendix 5).' In a series of air raids in the late summer and fall of 1943, Eighth Air Force successfully attacked factories in central Germany, but in the process suffered defeat as its bombers were overwhelmed by Luft- waffe fighters. On August 17, 60 of 376 bombers were lost (16 percent attri- tion) over Regensburg and Schweinfurt, and on September 6, 45 out of 338 bombers (13.3 percent) didn’t return from a raid on Stuttgart. In a third raid, reattacking Schweinfurt on October 14, Eighth Air Force sacrificed 60 of 291 B-17s at an unsustainable attrition rate of 20.7 percent.” These horrific losses curtailed US efforts to conduct unescorted high-altitude daylight precision bombing against Germany. It would not be until February 1944, with the introduction of long-range fighter escorts, that USAAF bombers would reap- pear in force over Germany.  ‘The Eighth Air Force defeat in the autumn of 1943 dispelled the notion of unescorted daylight bombing. By March 1944, improvements in German night fighter tactics further removed the sanctuary of darkness for Bomber Command, which suffered combat losses that matched those of Eighth Air Force in the previous fall.’ The German integrated air defense system, with its deadly combination of early-warning radars and quick-reacting fighter    High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombing in World War II 205  B-17F formation over Schweinfurt, August 17, 1943.  interceptors, disproved the prewar assertions of ACTS that a well-armed for- mation of unescorted bombers could conduct long-range operations at an acceptable loss rate.  ‘The bloody air war over Germany dispelled another belief of the strate- gic