ic collapse and imminent military defeat if the al- ternative is unconditional surrender and the demise of the state. Fairchild also does not consider how a powerful government, such as Nazi Germany, might compel the population to continue to fight even under severe pressure from strategic bombing.  Combined, the ACTS lectures presented in chapters 1 through 6 summarize a uniquely American theory of strategic bombing that would soon be tested in World War II. The lectures on operational requirements for conducting high-altitude daylight precision bombing offer not so much original thought from ACTS faculty as a reflection of how the Air Corps was thinking cor- porately about how to conduct independent air operations. The originality can be found in their connection of means to ends, that is, in articulating the  194 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  causal logic of how HADPB operations would lead to desired war outcomes: the bombing of vital and vulnerable industrial nodes would paralyze an eco- nomic structure to the extent that the enemy would lose the capability and will to continue.  ‘The rapid expansion of the Air Corps in anticipation of war brought an end to the school and, had the story of ACTS ended there in the summer of 1940, its theory might never have been tested. In August 1941, however, members of the ACTS faculty had the unique opportunity to create the US air campaign plan for World War II. The next chapter describes the contribu- tion made by Harold George, Ken Walker, Haywood Hansell, and Laurence Kuter in making HADPB a central component in the United States’ plans to defeat Germany and Japan. The chapter then assesses how well the theory performed when put into practice.  High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombing in World War Il  The Air Corps Tactical School lectures in the previous chapters present a uniquely American vision of strategic bombing focused on attacking the vital and vulnerable nodes of a nation’s economy. High-altitude da