r the basic truth concerning the prepa- ration for war, and the conduct of war, we find that practically everything that has been written is devoted to an explanation of methods concerning the conduct of operations on or near the battlefield. Such explanation is based upon certain definite weapons, and only too often provides little or no insight into the many basic factors which are essential if we are to profit from that experience in any future situation.  70 LECTURES OF THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL  Nowhere can we find any reference to a principle which teaches us to or- ganize that type of force which will most efficiently produce the end desired. Though we do find in unmistakable terms—“Infantry is the basic arm and all other arms operate to assist in its success.”  Here we pause and reflect on the noble knight. Undoubtedly he was the basic arm of the French! He remained the basic arm and the French contin- ued to be defeated.  Now we must accept unmistakable signs of changing weapons and chang- ing methods. Consequently, we are a bit doubtful about anything remaining a basic arm forever, and we can't be sure but that the change may well be made in the not too distant future.  Realizing that change does take place we are forced to believe that basic truths, immutable and unchangeable, cannot be based on any particular set of temporary conditions. All methods of warfare and all weapons of the past (as well as those of the present) are only a step in a continuing development.  Our analysis of the concepts developed from the study of past warfare has been none too fruitful in providing us with immutable principles upon which to base our conceptions of employment of Air Power in future wars. Having become sufficiently discouraged in looking for a guide to the fun- damentals in the conduct of war, we give up and determine to accept these basic factors upon which we will predicate our future investigation into this subject.  1. The end desired. 2. The means availab