and hitting targets the size of cities.*  Despite the fact that heavy air-to-air losses had compelled both the Ger- mans and the British to switch to night bombing, the American airmen who observed the air war remained resolute in their doctrine of high-altitude day- light precision bombing.  AIR WAR PLANS DIVISION  In July 1941, General Hap Arnold, the chief of the USAAF, summoned Lieu- tenant Colonel Harold George to Washington to set up the Air War Plans Division.’ Simultaneously, President Roosevelt directed the army and navy to    High-Altitude Daylight Precision Bombing in World War II 199  US Army Air Staff, 1941: Lieutenant Colonel Harold George (second from left), Major General Hap Arnold (center), and Major Haywood Hansell (third from right).  provide estimates on the production requirements for conducting war against Germany and Japan. At the end of July, the task to develop and integrate air force requirements into the overall army plan fell to AWPD, which by then consisted of George and a small staff including a core cadre of trusted former ACTS faculty: Kenneth Walker, Haywood Hansell, and Laurence Kuter.'° As the Bomber Mafia machinated, General Arnold departed for Newfoundland to accompany President Roosevelt in talks with the British prime minister Winston Churchill. AWPD had only nine days to assemble a scheme before Arnold’s return on August 12."  General Arnold gave AWPD few instructions other than to develop a plan that focused on defeating Germany first while maintaining a defensive position in the Pacific. George and his cohort were determined to place an independent strategic bombing campaign at the center of the American war effort. Still, in order to meet with army staff approval, they included fighters and attack aircraft in the event a ground invasion proved necessary.”  To calculate the overall aircraft and manning requirements, AWPD first had to decide how the air forces would be employed. In forming their strate- gic bombing campaign p