ry critical time. During that very critical time, in my mind there wasn’t a chance that we would have gone to war with Russia because we had overwhelming strategic capability and the Russians knew it. Burchinal: And we made it visible to them. Catton: Let me add just an underline to that because I think it is so important that we understand the versatility and flexibility of long-range air. During the Cuban Missile Crisis, who found the missiles? U-2s from SAC: long-range air. Then the strategic forces were generated up to about eighty percent, meaning that we had ready for launch perhaps four out of five of our bombers and tankers in SAC. And a portion of that eighty percent was on airborne alert. Burchinak Those were ten days when neither Curt nor I went home. We slept in the Pentagon right around the clock, beginning before the President’s 116  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 129 --- SAC IN THE 1950s AND EARLY 1960s Soviet missile equipment photographed in Cuba. announcement that produced the crisis.’33 Along the way, after we had assumed our alert posture, one of our U-2s out of Alaska had a malfunction in his navigation system and wound up over the Chukotski Penin~u1a.l~~ We knew the Soviet radar was following him. I remember word came to the 13’ LeMay and Burchinal were, respectively, Chief of Staff, USAF, and Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Operations, Headquarters, USAF. Thus, General LeMay represented the Air Force on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Lt. Gen. Burchinal was LeMay’s deputy for operations. Burchinal was responsible for developing and coordinating Air Force plans and for overseeing operations. He represented the Air Force and General LeMay at JCS meetings when the principals of the military services were not present. ‘34 The Chukotski Peninsula is a small jut of land near the Bering Sea. It is the most eastern part of the Soviet Union, and the United States flew regular reconnaissance flights along the Pacific rim observing activit