ore General Johnson went over to Europe, we had a very minimal atomic delivery capability-very few airplanes, less than a hundred. The Fifteenth Air Force had none, for example. The Eighth Air Force had the 509th, the 43d, and the 7th, and those were the only atomic-capable outfits. Those outfits were given attention different than the rest; they had their weaponeers trained, and they had their bomb commanders trained. What we didn’t have was brought out when General LeMay took charge. That is, we did not have a war plan for the use of those forces. All of us in the outfits at the operating level were just assuming: “Yes, at the higher levels things are well planned, and we just have to be well trained to execute.” I learned that was not the case. The day that Col. David A. Burchinal. 81  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 94 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE was bloody was the first day or two that General LeMay was there. You correct me, sir, where I go astray, but I have got to say that you were so disappointed and frustrated with what you found in the Strategic Air Command when you came back to command it, that it got right bloody. General LeMay assembled the staff and advised who was going to stay and who was going to go. He restaffed himself right then. So it was bloody, but it was necessary and appropriate, and we really got a head of steam going. LeMay: I even found group commanders who were not checked off on their airplanes. Johnson: I want to go back to an important point. When we demobilized the Air Force, I was in personnel and we were making plans for an orderly demobilization. I remember being over at the railroad station trying to figure out how many troops could be carried by the railways from San Francisco to various parts of the country as the men came home from the Pacific. General Muir Fairchild was sitting there. “What if the people demand to get out,” he asked? We said, “Well, gee, the plan won’t work.” The men did demand to get out immediatel