at would be visible to the Soviets, just in the event that the tough talk would excite the Soviets sufficiently to think they might want to do something. I remember our Ambassador in Moscow at the time was Foy K0h1er.l’~ He came back after the Cuban Missile Crisis ended and said that we walked Khrushchev up to the brink of nuclear war, he looked over the edge, and had no stomach for it. We could have written our own book at that time, but our politicians did not understand what happens when you have such a degree of superiority as we had, or they simply didn’t know how to use it. They were busily engaged in saving face for the Soviets and making concessions, giving up the IRBMs, the Thors and Jupiters deployed overseas-when all we had to do was write our own ticket.‘30 LeMay: We could have gotten not only the missiles out of Cuba, we could have gotten the Communists out of Cuba at that time. Johnson: You bet we could have. ‘29 Foy D. Kohler (1908- ), a career foreign service officer, was the U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet Union from 1962 to 1966. He was an expert on Berlin issues, and President Kennedy sent him to Moscow to negotiate with Premier Khrushchev on Berlin. See Foy D. Kohler and Mose L. Harvey, eds., The Soviet Union: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow (Miami, 1975), 122-133. At the peak of the Cuban Missile Crisis, on October 27, 1962, when a military invasion of Cuba seemed imminent, Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy met with Soviet Ambassador to the United States Anatoly Dobrynin. They discussed conditions for settling the crisis in which the Soviets would yield to the American naval quarantine and remove all offensive strategic weapons from Cuba, while in return, the United States would act to persuade the NATO nations to remove 15 Jupiter missiles from Turkey. These discussions did not produce a formal agreement, but they did result in an “understanding” between key government officials. As the crisis deepened, President Kennedy advocated strongly carryi