f the war that we even approached it. When we turned the B-52s loose up north-that started what would have been a strategic campaign, and it would have been completely over in a few more days if we had just continued it. 145 A few more days’ work and we would have been completely free without any casualties because all of the SAMs [surface-to-air missiles] were gone by that time. Their bases and warehouses supplying the SAM sites were gone, too. So it would have been a pretty free ride from then on, and we would have completely won the war. Up until that time, even when we were using the F3-52s, we were bombing jungle because there was a rumor there might be some Viet Cong in that jungle. So they would give us a point in the jungle, and we would go hit it. E52 stratofortresses bomb enemy concentrations along the Ho Chi Minh Trail. 14’ In the final weeks of the war, President Nixon ordered a bombing campaign against North Vietnam. Nixon acted because North Vietnam had suspended on December 13, 1972, diplomatic negotiations on a cease-fire agreement ending the fighting and returning U.S. prisoners of war. The bombing campaign, known as Operation Linebacker 11, began on December 18 and lasted for 11 days. Air Force B52s flew 729 sorties, and Navy and Air Force fighter-bombers flew approximately 1,OOO sorties. A total of 20,370 tons of bombs were dropped on North Vietnam, damaging military and civilian structures, electrical power networks, petroleum storage depots, railroad yards and tracks, and antiaircraft defenses. On December 29 the bombing stopped; North Vietnam agreed to resume negotiations. Three weeks later, on January 23, 1973, the final cease-fire agreement was signed by Henry Kissinger for the United States and Le Duc Tho for North Vietnam. See James R. McCarthy and George B. Allison, Linebacker II: A View From the Rock (Montgomery, Ala., 1979), 39-89,91-167; Berger, ed., The United States Air Force in Southeast Asia, 95-99; Richard M. Nixon, RN, The Memoirs