ugh. We just ignored flak-I did--right from the very start. We had an antiaircraft artillery officer in our division headquarters, and every time we had a mission he had all the intelligence information out and all the guns plotted around the target. He could tell you that if you came in this way, yoa were going to have so many rounds fired at you, and if you came in over here, you were going to have so many rounds. The Germans knew how to lay out a defense, and it didn’t make any difference from an artillery standpoint which way you came in. So we generally picked an approach with the sun at our back, or some other good approach. If a nice road ran dovvn to the target, that was fine; it helped the crews get in and find the target. That was how we did it, not paying any attention to the artillery. We would My right through it and come home. The fighters bothered me more than anything else, mainly because I had been in fighters for seven years, and seeing those guns winking at me out there bothered me, whereas the flak didn’t. Actually it is no great shakes to shoot a bomber down with a fighter if you go in there and press the attack. Of course, with all that lead flying around, it was not conducive to long life and happiness, but the fighters that did it shot bombers down. Catton: General LeMay, can you identify a period of time when the crews that you received in the UK were well trained? LeMay: Thai never happened. Catton: I knew you would say that. LeMay: We (established a combat crew replacement center in England where we gave the men a little more training; things were moving so fast that the Training Command never caught up. Certain of the later groups were better than the ones we started with, of course. But we always had to sort of “break them in” a little bit, try to baby them a little bit, and give them an easy mission to stisrt with. We broke them in that way. Without exception, every time a new group went into combat, they usually screwed up the first mi