1916, 305-313. 107  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 120 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE arrangement.”l The E52 was a harder airplane to handle and much heavier. It was a bad match. But refueling really made SAC, because with the B-47~ we would have had to do an awful lot of forward staging to get to any targets at all. The B-36 was the only airplane in the interim that had the necessary range.’” Kohn: Let me go back to strategic policy for a moment. Did the “Massive Retaliation” policy of the 1950s mean that we planned only to fight a general nuclear war? LeMay: There are as many answers to that question as there are people around, I guess. But I think too many people thought of massive retaliation as automatically pushing all buttons, shooting all guns, that sort of thing in response to virtually anything the Russians did. Nobody that I knew in the military ever thought of it that way. Massive retaliation I think was a word coined by either newspapermen or some public affairs guy someplace in the military. The idea was to have overwhelming strength so that nobody would dare attack us-at least that was my idea of it, and what I attempted to accomplish out at SAC-that we would have such strength that we would never have to do any fighting. Catton: I sure agree with the boss. Massive retaliation was a phrase that did not describe what we intended to do at all. The important thing, of course, was always to be able to prevail at the highest level of intensity, so that any kind of an escalation would be to the disadvantage of the enemy. Certainly as the Air Force and the country were building SAC’S capability, we intended to be able to operate across a much larger portion of the warfare spectrum. Now I am just talking SAC, but from the Air Force 12’ B-52s began service with the Air Force in June 1955. They were all-jet, heavy bombers capable of carrying 28,250 pounds of bombs over an unrefueled range of 6,000 miles. Carrying a crew of six, the J3-52 went through eig