where it was, and we could send help. Not so in Mao’s areas. The two were bitter enemies.50 Saying nothing, I sent my men up to Mao, knowing how they would be received. They asked him if he would let us know if an airplane went down in his area so wle could send help. Mao not only said “yes” but he offered to build us airdromes in his area. Well, since we couldn’t supply the fields we had in the south, I recommended only that he improve his field at his headquarters. I would set up a radio station and suppIy it if he would notify me about downed aircraft and help our people out. Well, he agreed, and we would get radio reports from there. However, we had nothing on which to draw maps. The only way we could draw a weather map was send some B-29s up to see what the weather looked like, aind try to draw maps from that, then make forecasts of how to set up a mission. On top of that, when ordered to fly a mission out of China, we had to mrtke seven trips with a B-29 and offload all the gas we could, leaving only enough to get back to India. On the eighth trip we would transport a load of bombs, top off with gas in China, and go drop them on Japan if the weather was right. Then we’d start the process all over again. So the logistical situation was hopeless in China. We didn’t get much accom- plished. We rim some decent missions; I think we stopped the main Japanese drive in China in 1944 by bombing Hankow, their main supply base, and on that mission did a little experimental work with the in~endiaries.~~ We knocked out Formosa pretty well before the Okinawa show, but we really didn’t get mulch done. 50 Mao Zedong (1893-1976) and Chiang Kai-shek (1887-1975) led the two rival forces struggling for control of China in the twentieth century. The rivalry began in the 1920s when the revolutionary movement of Dr. Sun Yat-Sen split into two factions. Mao was the principal Chinese marxist theorist, soldier, and leader in the struggle against Chiang Kai-shek‘s Nationalist Chinese go