gainst Japan, 1941-1945 (New York, 1978), 520-525; James L. Stokesbury, A Short History of World War ZZ (New York, 1980), 372-376. 51  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 64 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE again. If the weather was good and he ran two missions a day, he could drop 300 tons of bombs. That was his effort.& I didn’t volunteer anything. I just sat and waited for Halsey to tell me what he would like to have. Well, the fleet sailed from Ulithi, and I didn’t hear anything. I was waiting for my naval liaison officer to tell me what they wanted, but nothing happened. Finally, after they sailed, I got a message from Halsey saying that he wanted me to support him with a maximum effort of the B-29 force against the airfields in the vicinity of his strikes. Now what was he asking for? Our maximum effort at that time was 3,000 tons. He was asking for 3,000 tons on airfields that weren’t bothering anybody. We were sending reconnaissance airplanes and weather airplanes up there singlehand- ed, flying all over the place, and nobody bothered us. The Japanese were saving what airplanes they had left for use as kamikazes against the invasion. We weren’t being attacked, so I sent a message to Halsey saying that I didn’t think attacking airfields met the strategic mission. I suggested that I support him by hitting strategic targets in the area of his strikes. No message came back from Halsey. I got a message from Arnold that said, “Support Halsey in any way he asks.” I know what happened. Halsey had wired Nimitz, and Nimitz had wired King that I wasn’t supporting Hal~ey.~’ Arnold said, “Oh, hell,” and finally said, “Do it.” I still wasn’t licked, so I sent a message to Halsey that, okay, I would support him and hit the airfields-but to hit airfields, I had to have visual bombing conditions. The airfields didn’t show up on the radar scopes, so I would have to have visual bombing conditions. If the weather was visual, I would hit those airdromes. If the weather was not vi