groping, too. LeMay: I feel about the same way. I never saw a copy of Douhet’s book. I had heard about him and that he generally favored the use of air power and what it could do. We agreed with that. Of course, we had Billy Mitchell,16 and we: knew more about his battle for air power, and we knew about the bombing of the German ships off the Virginia Capes and so forth. There wasn’t much question about what we could do if we had something to do it with. Kohn: So the theory was always there. It was pretty generally understood that l4 Giulio Douhet (1869-1930) was an Italian military officer and theorist who authored a treatise omn air power, The Command of the Air, first published in 1921. Douhet’s work was one of the most influential theoretical statements on air power. His writings were translated into French, Russian, German, and English and discussed in military schools and institutions. Is Tlhe Army Air Corps Tactical School was located at Maxwell Field, Alabama, during the 1930s. Usually, Air Corps officers attended the 14-week school at the midpoint of their careers. Both Capt. Leon Johnson and 1st Lt. Curtis LeMay attended the school from May to August 1939. l6 Brig. Gen. William Mitchell (1879-1936) led the US. Army Air Service’s combat forces in Europe in World War I. In the 1920s he was an outspoken advocate for an independent air force, separate from the Army. In articles and speeches he attacked the Navy as well, asserting that the airplane had rendered the battleship obsolete. In a 1921 exercise, and again in 1923, Mitchell had Air Service pilots locate, bomb, and sink captured German warships. Amidst tumultuous publicity, Mitchell used the sinkings to push for military air independence. In 1925, when a Navy dirigible was lost with its entire crew in a severe storm at sea, Mitchell chastised the Navy an’d War Department for “incompetency, criminal negligence, and an almost treasonable administration of national defense. . . .” For these assertions he w