cepted air tactics called for the bombers to maneuver every few seconds over the target to avoid enemy antiaircraft fire. LeMay rejected this conventional wisdom and told his bomb group to concentrate on placing “bombs on target.” Using these tactics, the 305th was able to achieve air discipline and bombing accuracy. In the fall and winter months of 1942, the command‘s wing commanders recognized the 305th’~ results, and they- specifically, Brig. Gen. Laurence Kuter, and Brig. Gen. Haywood S. Hansell, Jr.-recommended that LeMay’s air tactics be adopted in all Eighth Air Force bomb groups and wings. They were. Roger A. Freeman, The Mighty Eighth: A History of the US. Eighth Army Air Forces (New York, 1970), 22-23, 247; Craven and Cate, AAF in WWZZ, 11, 264-267. 27  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 38 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE Kohn: Could I go back to the 1930s for just one moment to ask a question about doctrine? Did you ever read Giulio Douhet’s Command of the Air ?I4 Did you ever discuss the theory of strategic bombing, or how the force would be used in wartime, even though you didn’t have an enemy and weren’t looking forward to a war? Johnson: Individually we all had heard of Douhet, and we talked about Douhel, but I don’t think we paid that much attention to theory. The airplane could only do certain things, and we all believed in the airplane. We had the airplanes, and we thought we could do the job. The Tactical SchoolI5 and schools over in England were a bit of a disappointment to me when I went to them. I went to the short course only at Maxwell. Before that time most of us hadn’t gotten to school. I thought when I got to England the instructors were going to have all the answers. When I got there they didn’t have any more answers than we had. They were groping, too. LeMay: I feel about the same way. I never saw a copy of Douhet’s book. I had heard about him and that he generally favored the use of air power and what it could do. We agreed with that.