, determining the preparations for war, the types of airplanes developed and deployed, and the size and configuration of the service, from the location of its bases to the distinctive decoration on part of its uniforms. The very creation of the Air Force was bound up with the effort to wage independent air war, to use air power against the will and capacity of an enemy nation to wage war in order to decide a conflict without-r independent of-military operations on land or at sea. Thus the Office believed that by exploring the experiences and ideas of some of the senior commanders who led America’s strategic air forces in war and peace, it would contribute to an understanding not only of the United States Air Force, but of air power itself. Readers should remember, however, that this interview is not history but the collective memory of four leading airmen; it is the source material upon which history rests. The interview was conducted in person, with the followup discussion completed by telephone two months later. The transcript was edited and partially rearranged to follow a chronological format. Each discussant read and approved the edited transcript, occasionally adding some small fragment of material or editing the text further. The introduction, footnotes, and bibliography were contributed by the editors. The creation of this interview and its transformation from the spoken word to a finished publication was a group effort by the Air Force History Program. Lt. Col. Maurice Maryanow, Dr. James C. Hasdorff, and Mr. Hugh N. Ahmann of the USAF Historical Research Center contributed questions and did background research prior to the interview. Located in the Center are oral histories of Generals LeMay, Johnson, Burchinal, and Catton. Each were studied before the interview. Mr. John T. Bohn and Mr. J. C. Hopkins of the Strategic Air Command History Office suggested questions and read the final manuscript prior to publication. In the Office of Air Force 2  File: --- i