irmed American support for Berlin and ordered the airlift accelerated to a full scale effort immediately. From that day until September 30, 1949, the Berlin Airlift brought 2,323,067 tons of food, fuel, and supplies to the beseiged city of 2,250,000. For the history of the crisis see Rearden, Formative Years, 1947-1950, 275-308; for a history of the airlift, see Tunner, Over The Hump, 152-224. 78  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 91 --- THE LATE 1940s Catton: The first morning at Andrews Air Force Base, where SAC was headquartered, General LeMay said, “As the first order of business, I want to review the war plan.” Kohn: And there was no war plan? LeMay: No. Then I asked about the status of training: “Let me see your bombing scores.” “Oh,” was the response, “we are bombing right on the button.” They produced the bombing scores, and they were so good I didn’t believe them. The same was true of the radar bombing scores. Then, looking a little further, I found out that SAC wasn’t bombing from combat altitudes, but from 12,000 to 15,000 feet. I looked at the radar picture, and the planes weren’t at altitude. There had been trouble with the radars working at altitude. Instead the crews bombed down where the radars would work. Instead of bombing a realistic target, they were bombing a reflector on a raft out in the ocean or in the bay down off Eglin Field. It was completely unrealistic. It was perfectly apparent to me that while we didn’t have very much capability, everybody thought they were doing fine. The first thing to do was convince them otherwise. So I ran a maximum effort mission against Dayton, Ohio-a realistic combat mission, at combat altitudes, for every airplane in SAC that we could get in the air. We had them all up, and not one airplane, not one crew, completed the mission as briefed: aborts all over the place, equipment that wouldn’t work, the crews that didn’t work, nothing worked. Afterward we got the commanders all together and laid it out: “L