ers. From his new headquarters on Guam, LeMay planned and conducted B-29 strikes against Japanese industries, cities, and military installations. These air strikes devastated Japan and exerted pressure, especially in conjunction with Allied naval operations, on Japanese political and military leaders to surrender. In the war’s final months LeMay gained a degree of notoriety, appearing in articles in the New York Times, Colliers, and New Yorker, as well as on the cover of Time the week of August 13, 1945, the same week as the atomic bomb attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan. Public recognition was a consequence of the strategic air war and LeMay’s combat record. During World War I1 LeMay came to be recognized as one of the Army Air Forces’ quintessential bomber commanders and operators. His name became synonymous with leading large, powerful strategic air forces. He had trained and led bomber groups; he had developed bomber tactics that improved discipline in the air against attacking fighters and enabled bomb crews to strike targets more accurately; he had led massed formations of bomber wings and divisions on long-range air strikes over Germany; and finally in the Pacific, he had constructed a large, long-range strategic air force, developed new techniques of low-level, incendiary bombing, and conducted a devastating air campaign against the very fabric of the Japanese economy and society. When the war ended in September 1945, Major General LeMay was but one of the many air leaders who remained in the service to create and build the postwar United States Air Force. At thirty-eight, however, he was one of the service’s youngest major generals, and he was given significant responsi- bilities as the Deputy Chief of Staff for Research and Development at Headquarters, Army Air Forces, in Washington, D.C. For two years, amidst a general military demobilization and the drive for air independence, he tried to stimulate development of new bomber and fighter technologies