ic Air Command, 1946-1981,” 14-18. 104  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 117 --- SAC IN THE 1950s AND EARLY 1960s Burchinal: I remember that hose-the English probe and drogue. LeMay: The bomber came up behind the tanker with a grappling hook and flew across the hose hoping the hook would snag the hose; then you pulled it in and got it hooked up and transferred your fuel. Mark Bradley decided he could do better than that, and he came with the A B-29 tanker-aircraft (above) is refueling at high speed a B-50 Superfortress medium bomber through the flying boom. 'I6 At this time there were three basic inflight refueling techniques, each involving a tanker aircraft flying ahead and above the receiving aircraft. The earliest method, developed by Alan Cobham of Great Britain, had the crew of the tanker aircraft shoot a hose from a harpoon-like device across the wing of the trailing aircraft. Once the hose was caught on a hook, it was reeled in and attached to an interior fuel tank. The second method, called the probe and drogue system, had the tanker trail out a hose with a cone-shaped receptacle called a drogue. The receiver aircraft, equipped with a nozzle-shaped probe, flew it into the drogue and the fuel flowed into the receiving aircraft's interior fuel tanks. This method was used in the Korean War to refuel F-84 jet fighters. The third method, the flying boom, was devised by Brig. Gen. Clarence S. Irvine (SAC), Brig. Gen. Mark E. Bradley (Air Material Command), and Cliff Leisy (The Boeing Company). It differed by having the fuel transferred from the tanker by means of a long telescoping pipe-a boom-which was guided into a receptacle on the receiver aircraft by a specially trained boom operator. In the 1960s the flying boom refueling method became standard throughout the Air Force. 'I7 Gen. Mark E. Bradley (1907-) was a graduate of West Point (1930) who entered the Artillery Branch, but switched to the Air Corps, learning to fly at Brooks and Kelly Fields, Te