k at Air University about going after the Russians, and he was retired in about three days by President Truman.86 Burchinak Very fast. We knew we had supremacy, and we knew what we could do with it, but no one wanted to start another war. We had just finished one. We saw nothing bothering us right at that time worth the cost. Curt certainly went to work and made a very effective, efficient force very quickly when he got back. Catton: Maybe this will put it a little bit into perspective, and you will all remember this. Once General LeMay got back (we are always pointing at this man, but that is natural), we went to work. We not only started developing a war plan for the use of the forces that we had, but we developed a programming plan-the first time I learned about programming-how we were going to build the force. What was our concept of warfare? A good question. Remember, General LeMay, the Pegasus exercise down at Montgomery? Remember J. B. Montgomery and the briefing in which we showed the Air Force how we could use our forces, how we could stage through, pick up bombs at the general AEC storage sites, then fly to our prestrike staging bases, and finally to the targets that we would hit?*’ We convinced everybody that we knew how to do it and that, in fact, we could do it. It was at that time, vivid in my memory, that we achieved recognition on the part of the Air Force of the primacy of strategic nuclear warfare. That was the first hurdle that had to be overcome. Do you remember that? 86 Following the invasion of South Korea by North Korea in June 1950, Maj. Gen. Orvil A. Anderson, Commandant of Air War College, gave a series of lectures, briefings, and press interviews describing how he believed the United States should use its strategic air forces to launch a preventive strike on the Soviet Union. These remarks, along with similar ones by Secretary of the Navy Francis P. Matthews, alarmed President Truman and his advisors who were then in the midst of defining,