n and Stewart, Ploesti; Wolff, Low LevelMission; and Freeman, The Mighty Eighth, 8691. 27 Lt. Gen. Lewis H. Brereton (1890-1967). A graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy (191 I), Brereton resigned his Navy commission and entered the U.S. Army Signal Corps prior to World War I. He became a pilot in 1916, flew combat in the war, and served on Brig. Gen. Mitchell’s staff. In the interwar years Brereton commanded tactical, pursuit, bombardment, depot, and training units. At the beginning of World War I1 he was one of the Army Air Forces’ senior air leaders. Immediately after the Japanese struck Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, Maj. Gen. Brereton, then Commander, Far East Air Forces, in the Philippines, was selected by Gen. Douglas MacArthur to be the Air Commander-in-Chief, Allied Air Forces, Pacific. During the next six months, Japanese forces engaged and defeated American and British forces throughout the western Pacific. With few forces and no hope of resupply, General Brereton was transferred, first to India in March 1942 to command Tenth Air Force, then to Egypt in June 1942 to lead the Middle East 4ir Forces, and finally to North Africa in November 1942 to command Ninth Air Force. Brereton commanded the forces that flew on the Ploesti Raid of August 1, 1943. Early in 1944, he was selected to command the 1st Allied Airborne Army and following the Normandy invasion he led this allied force for the balance of the war in Europe. After the war, Brereton served in Washington in the Office of the Secretary of War and on the Atomic Energy Commission’s Military Liaison Committee. He retired in 1948. 37  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 49 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE didn’t admire their commander unless he was a very poor stick. In Eighth Air Force I was based up in East Anglia, and I would drive down to London about once a month. I had an old seven-passenger Packard. And on the way down there, I would fill it up with people thumbing rides. I would ask them B-24 Liber