ld you, and they mentioned cross-training.” We were so busy fighting our headquarters and trying to get the training that we didn’t have time to do anything else. LeMay: That is another factor, a disease that headquarters is often liable to get: the belief that combat outfits are working for headquarters instead of headquarters working for the combat outfits. It takes a little doing once in a while to get that attitude changed, just in the matter of reports that come in. I had a system in SAC whereby about every three months we checked the reports that came in to see who read them and what they did with them if they were read. Often we would cut them out. The question was whether the staff was putting work on the combat outfits, or taking work away from the combat outfits so they could get ready to fight. With this as an illustration, the staffs would then get down to business. We took the 509th Group, the original atomic outfit. I said: “Okay, we will start with that one.” We cleaned out the supply warehouses and stocked the things that the unit needed. We equipped all the planes with the things they were supposed to have on them. Some of the airplanes didn’t even have Lt. Col. Jack J. Catton. Courtesy Jack J. Catton 80  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 93 --- THE LATE 1940s guns on them; since it was peacetime, they supposedly didn’t need them, and didn’t have them. We put all the things on the airplanes they were supposed to have, and then started cleaning out the people that didn’t belong there, and getting people in who did. Kohn: Was that a bloody process? Do you all remember that? Johnson: Oh, boy! I remember it vividly. Catton: There is a point that needs to be made. During this period of time, when General LeMay came back from the airlift and just before General Johnson went over to Europe, we had a very minimal atomic delivery capability-very few airplanes, less than a hundred. The Fifteenth Air Force had none, for example. The Eighth Air Force h