and reliability factors to buy enough Minutemen to put reliably one missile on every bloody silo he had-just He wouldn’t have any part ‘39 PK stands for probability of kill. It is a term used in operational planning which indicates numerically the probability of a weapon destroying a target. Minuteman missiles were the United States’ principal land-based, intercontinental ballistic missiles from the Kennedy administration (196163) to the present. By 1964, the Air Force. had 700 Minuteman I missiles assigned to the Strategic Air Command. During the next ten years, the total number of operational Minuteman missiles, positioned in hardened, underground silos and continuously ready to be launched, grew to 1,ooO. However, by 1969, newer models, the Minuteman I1 and 111, had replaced the first generation of missiles. John W.R. Taylor, ed., Jane’s All the World’s Aircrofi, 1965L1970 (London, 1970), 583-584. 122  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 135 --- WAR IN SOUTHEAST ASIA of it. He was the one that forced us into this sart of assured destruction, minimum deterrence level, where it did almost force us to put cities and civilian populations at some risk, as hostage, because we didn’t have enough force to do a proper military job. LeMay: To get back to your question, “Was there any planning for the use of the air power in Vietnam?” There was some after we got fully embroiled over there. As a matter of fact, we got ground forces involved in there before I knew anything about it, but I don’t remember any discussion where we would use our ground forces in Asia until it was right there, happening. The decision was made and there we were, involved. The Joint Chiefs finally came up with a target list of ninety targets in North Vietnam, targets that would badly reduce the North Vietnamese capability of supporting the war in the South. But it was never approved, and we were never given authority to get them.“ Kohn: Was that after we began Rolling Th~nder?’~’ Burchinak No.