he big push came when we got the first monoplane, which gave us a tremendous leap forward in performance. As a matter of fact, at the beginning of the decade we had bombers that would go faster than fighters. That leap forward gave great impetus to the bombing end of the picture and began to fulfill our earlier expectations. I don’t think there was any stress on the bombers over the fighters; we had attack airplanes and observation airplanes also. However, we never had enough airplanes to call it a strategic air force. Burchinal: Those bombers were Martin B-lOs, weren’t they?3 LeMay: Yes. There was no radical change in theory or roles but a big jump in the performance of bomber equipment. Johnson: Personally, I don’t think we had a sense of mission early in the 1930s. The world had been made safe for democracy not too long before, and there seemed no chance of a war. We weren’t conscious of Hitler. I happened to be in the Philippines during those times, and we had a bomb squadron, a fighter squadron, an observation squadron, and a pursuit squadron over there. We flew around the islands and did our training because that’s what you did in peacetime. I know that we didn’t have a sense of purpose at that time. We didn’t see anything on the horizon; we weren’t worried about anything. We were just worried about getting enough airplanes to fly, and we were worried about getting our flying done. I quite agree with you that when the long-range fighter came in and Seversky made his P-35, then they began to say, “Well, there is a possibility of moving, and you can take these forces * The B-l/Keystone and B-2/Curtiss Condor bombers were acquired by the U.S. Army Air Corps in the late 1920s and early 1930s. The Air Corps purchased 140 of these aircraft and they became first-line bombers until the mid-1930s. Both aircraft had technological improvements over the DH4s. Both were biplanes that had maximum speeds of 120-130 miles per hour, ranges of 700-800 miles, and bomb load capac