Fortunately, there was enough panic in Washington when they saw those missiles going in, and it was a new team, of course, with Kennedy and McNamara and company, that they gave only the broadest 9 (Spring 1985): 106-122; Marc Trachtenberg, “The Influence of Nuclear Weapons in the Cuban Missile Crisis,” and “White House Tapes and Minutes of the Cuban Missile Crisis,” International Security 10 (Summer 1985): 137-163, 164-203. ”* Nikita Khrushchev (1894-1971) was a native of Kursk, Russia, who came to power in 1953, following the death of Stalin. For a brief period he shared power with five other Soviet leaders who constituted the Presidium. In early 1954 Khrushchev emerged as the sole leader of the Soviet Union. A powerful, somewhat eccentric leader, he changed the direction of Soviet history in 1956 in a secret speech to the 20th Party Congress in which he denounced the excesses of Stalin’s one-man rule and repudiated the concept that Soviet Communism was the single, infallible authority in the communist world. In the same speech he outlined a new Soviet foreign policy of “peaceful coexistence” with the western nations. Unlike Stalin, Khrushchev traveled extensively in the West, including the United States, visiting with President Eisenhower and other American officials in 1959. A dominating, often crude figure, he attended a session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York and when a speaker made some anti-Soviet remarks, the Soviet leader shouted back obscenities, pounded his fists, and removed his shoe, banging it repeatedly on the desk. In 1961, when Khrushchev met with the then newly elected President Kennedy in Vienna, Austria, Khrushchev perceived that Kennedy would be a weak president. Shortly thereafter Khrushchev moved to change the postwar status of Berlin. In a speech to the Soviet military in June 1961, he outlined his plans for unilaterally removing Berlin from control of the United States, France, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union, making i