ted to know,” he recalled later, “was the secret, so that they could go to war and come back home alive.” Burchinal, however, did not go to Europe with the 330th. Instead, in January 1944 he went to the 313th Bomb Wing, a B-29 outfit then in training for the Pacific. For eleven months they trained stateside. Then in December 1944, they left Nebraska with Burchinal piloting the lead bomber of the wing’s 180 B-29s. When the wing arrived at Tinian Island in the Marianas, they joined the XXI Bomber Command, led by General LeMay. Burchinal flew several bombing missions immediately and participated in one of the first test raids on Japanese cities using incendiary bombs. By chance more than design, he flew the lead bomber of 231 B-29s on an early incendiary raid to Tokyo on February 25, 1945. The success of this strike led to the decision to conduct a series of low-level, night, fire raids on Japanese cities-Tokyo, Kobe, Nagoya, Osaka, and Kawasaki. Burchinal did not fly on these later 11  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 21 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE -&- Lt. Col. David A. Burchinal. missions, however, as General LeMay had him transferred to headquarters to be an operations planner. Unrelated but nearly coincidental was LeMay's decision to step up significantly the strategic air attacks on Japan. Additional strikes were ordered and LeMay instituted a series of new air tactics: repeated, low-level, night attacks on Japanese cities using incendiary bombs; increased spacing in the strings of B-29s flying over Japan so as to allow for flexibility in striking alternate targets; use of B-29 reconnaissance aircraft equipped with air-to-air radios for redirecting the bombers to strike alternate targets when over Japan; and later, in mid-summer 1945, the use of squadron- sized raids, instead of massed formations, to attack targets throughout the length and breadth of Japan. For Burchinal, these new tactics signaled that victory was near. Resistance to this air campaign wa