age 99 --- KOREAN WAR Catton: There was one B-29 outfit on Okinawa, the 19th, that belonged to the Far East Air Forces. It did not belong to General LeMay. He owned the rest until the war started. LeMay: When we got orders to send them over there, we picked the low- priority outfits, the lowest ones on the totem pole. Kohn: Why did you choose the low-priority units? LeMay: Because I did not want to destroy the capability that we had built up for a strategic war if we had to go to war. We sent the outfits that were not fully manned and not combat ready for the overall strategic war plan. Catton: All the wings that he sent over there were not nuclear-capable. Kohn: Did you believe our bombing campaign against North Korea was strategic air war as you knew it? LeMay: No, we never did hit a strategic target. Catton: It was interdiction. Kohn: It was interdiction with strategic bombers? Catton: Absolutely. The strategic targets-the resource-were located north of the Yalu, yet we were not permitted to go north of the Yal~.’~ General LeMay kept very close contact with those three units-the 98th, the 92d, and the 22d. He kept very close tabs on those outfits; they did the jobs they were asked to do extremely well. He also sent Rosie O’Donnell to be the FEAF Bomber Command Commander. So, while General LeMay did not relinquish possession of those outfits, they were under the operational control of the theater commander. Right? LeMay: Right. Kohn: No lessons to be learned from the strategic standpoint, then? 93 The Yalu River forms the border between North Korea and the Chinese province of Manchuria. When the war began, the Truman administration did not allow American and Allied aircraft to fly north of the Yalu River in order to avoid provoking China. The fear was that China, if attacked, would enter the war allied with North Korea. After the Chinese intervention in November 1950, the Truman administration maintained its policy restrictions on air forces flying north of the Ya