rmy Air Forces, in Washington, D.C. For two years, amidst a general military demobilization and the drive for air independence, he tried to stimulate development of new bomber and fighter technologies. He left Washington in October 1947 as a lieutenant general, assuming command of U.S. Air Forces, Europe (USAFE). LeMay was in Europe in June 1948 when the Soviets blockaded Berlin. A small, tentative military airlift began; within 5  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 15 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE hours President Truman directed that it be expanded in size and scope. LeMay responded immediately; in addition, USAFE’s forces went on combat alert. As the days of the Berlin Blockade grew into weeks, then months, tensions between the Soviet Union and the United States escalated. Anticipat- ing war, Gen. Hoyt S. Vandenberg, Chief of Staff, USAF, and Stuart Symington, Secretary of the Air Force, surveyed the Air Force’s combat capability. They judged the Strategic Air Command to be unprepared and ordered LeMay home to command the nation’s strategic air forces. For the second time in four years, the Air Force had called upon LeMay to lead long- range strategic air forces. On both occasions, in World War I1 against Japan and in the Cold War against the Soviet Union, he had been given a similar mandate: reorganize and redirect an existing strategic air force so that American air power could influence the military situation directly. LeMay began quickly. Within weeks he had replaced SAC’S deputy commander, chief of staff, director of operations, and director of plans. The new men-Brigadier Generals Thomas S. Power, August W. Kissner, John B. Montgomery, and Walter S. Sweeney-were all veterans of the Pacific strategic bombing campaign. Experienced and confident, they began in the winter of 194849 to reshape the command, fitting together the people, aircraft, organization, training, tactics, and plans. As in the Pacific, LeMay was the driving force. Immediately, they change