we didn’t have that much capability in other parts of the Air Force in the early to mid-1950s. We had it mostly in SAC. Catton: “Massive” referred to what we could do proportionately to what the Russians could do to us. We had nuclear supremacy over the Soviets-such substantial nuclear superiority that it was massive in relation to what they could bring to bear on us. I surely agree with General LeMay, that it was not just pushing all the buttons in sight. There was a very clear targeting philosophy and a very professional war plan for SAC to go to war. In those early days in the 1950s, SAC was about the only war force we possessed. Kohn: Was your war plan-and here I only want to speak in general terms, of course-always for a substantial strategic campaign in the World War I1 sense? LeMay: No. We had a total war plan, and that was virtually the only thing that was planned. However, it was so segmented that you had a lot of choices over what could be done-something less than that if that was the choice you wanted to make. The main thing was that this force was not built simply for retaliation: That is, “If you don’t behave, we are going to hit you with all this.” It was built for people to see, and looking at it, nobody would want to tackle it. That was our main objectivewhat we hoped would happen, and what did happen. Johnson: I have recently heard this referred to as that “immoral” policy of massive destruction. My goodness, it was not immoral! No one ever expected it to have to be used. That was its whole purpose. As Air Deputy of Europe in the late 1950~~ people asked me how many airplanes the Russians had in Berlin. I replied, “I don’t know, and I don’t care because they are not going to move because we have superiority.” Personally I never expected, and it was the farthest thing from my mind, that we would ever have an attack on the United States as long as we had that strength. Burchinal: There were some similarities to World War 11, in that we were not trying