oups of B-24s and B-17s. For the duration of the European war he led this wing, participating in every major bombing campaign: Central Europe, Normandy, Northern France, the Rhineland, Ardennes-Alsace, and Central Germany. As wing commander he led four distinguished bomb groups: the 44th) 392d, 491st, and 94th. Combined, the bombers and crews under Johnson's direction 9  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 19 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE flew more than 15,OOO combat sorties against the enemy. Combat hardened, knowledgeable about every aspect of strategic air warfare, Brigadier General Johnson emerged from the war as a leading practitioner of bomber operations and strategic air warfare. Following the war, senior leaders of the Army Air Forces picked him to lead one of the two numbered air forces in the new Strategic Air Command. For eighteen months, 1947-48, he commanded SAC’S Fifteenth Air Force, where he was responsible for leading, training, and equipping one element of the nation’s small, atomic air force. It was a difficult assignment because postwar demobilization had created shortages of people, planes, equipment, and money in all of the Army Air Forces’ combatant commands. In August 1948, Johnson left SAC for Europe where he commanded United States Air Forces Europe’s Third Air Division. Activated in July 1948 during the first few tense weeks of the Berlin Airlift, this air division was based in England and had the dual mission of training and preparing the Air Force’s strategic bombers in Europe for war and serving as a depot for the air transports flying the airlift. For four years, 1948-52, during some of the most difficult moments of the Cold War, including the Berlin Airlift and the Korean War, Johnson trained and prepared American air forces in Europe for the possibility of war against the Soviet Union. Then in February 1952, Major General Johnson returned to the United States to lead the Air Force’s Continental Air Command, a composite command of A