e home from the Pacific. General Muir Fairchild was sitting there. “What if the people demand to get out,” he asked? We said, “Well, gee, the plan won’t work.” The men did demand to get out immediately, and I let them out. All of this helps explain the condition of the Air Force at the time. Another example: the records of my wartime group were left on the floor up at Rapid City, South Dakota. Some of them were gathered up and sent to the Pentagon when I was there; but in general there was no one left even to keep the records of the units from World War 11. We started from nothing, from nothing, to rebuild the Air Force. I think this helps explain this lack of readiness all the way through. Kohn: How did you conceive of warfare in that period before the Korean War? When General LeMay took over SAC and found no war plan, you must have begun to think through war plans and discuss the subject with the Joint Chiefs. General Burchinal, you were down at Air University then. Was that being discussed? Burchinal: No. We were reviewing history at that point. We weren’t looking ahead; we were looking back and seeing what happened, and teaching from what happened-the basic lessons, that sort of thing. I don’t think we fully realized what nuclear supremacy meant that early. It was probably well into the 1950s before the full dawning of what supremacy in the nuclear field really meant to us and how much of a ticket we could write based on that supremacy. We came to realize we had supremacy-after General LeMay came in and made SAC a fighting force again. Johnson: I think we realized what supremacy was, but no one wanted to use it or even think about using it. Orvil Anderson gave a lecture, if you will 82  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 95 --- THE LATE 1940s remember, a talk at Air University about going after the Russians, and he was retired in about three days by President Truman.86 Burchinak Very fast. We knew we had supremacy, and we knew what we could do with it, b