k upon it as atomic warfare exclusively? Johnson: I never gave a thought to it being atomic warfare only. I was just training the crews, getting them combat capable to do whatever they needed to do. I don’t think we thought of ourselves as world destroyers or world savers or anything. We were given a job to do. I personally believe in disciplining units. I always believed that nondisciplined units were lousy; they never did a good job anywhere. I don’t mean to emphasize strict discipline of the martinet type, but expecting people to do things they are supposed to do, when they are supposed to do them. That was all we were trying to do in the late 1940s: get the crews trained in their specialties, get the crews ready to be “marked,” as Curt says, combat ready. Catton: Let me give you a squadron commander’s point of view. I was fortunate because I was in a high-priority outfit. We had the “SILVER PLATE’ airplanes in the 43d Wing.82 We underwent a very sharp reduction in manpower authorization in the fighting outfits, in the combat outfits. As a consequence, a crew member had to be ready to be another officer as well; that is what cross-training meant. But the problem was not only cross- training; there was a very substantial reduction in manpower levels that were ’’ Lt. Gen. Roger M. Ramey (1905-63) was a West Point graduate (1930) who served in the air force for 29 years. In the 1930s he was a pilot, operations officer, and commanding officer in pursuit units. He was in Hawaii on December 7, 1941, serving as commander of the 42d Bombardment Squadron at Hickam Field. Associated with the Pacific war from its inception, Ramey commanded bomb units from 194145. He commanded the 58th Bomb Wing (B-29s) in China and in the Marianas in 1944-45. He was one of General LeMay’s wing commanders in the strategic air campaign against Japan. Immediately after the war, Brig. Gen. Ramey led the AAF Task Force that participated in the atomic bomb tests at Bikini Island in the Pacific. F