ok at these policies from a different point of view: massive retaliation and SAC seem to be synonymous in some people’s minds (wrongly, but it is the case); flexible response seems to imply the rest of the military in a conventional, down-to- guerrilla-warfare sense. I think we ought to remember that we had a Department of Defens-I should say the military services, one of which was the Air Force. SAC was the major war-fighting capability of the Air Force / President John F. Kennedy and Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Curtis E. LeMay at a firepower demonstration at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida, May 1962. 111  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 124 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE and of all the services for quite awhile, because the capability was there. The potential was there, and the capability was developed by virtue of the emplacement of resources. When flexible response became the Kennedy administration policy, what we are really saying is that instead of adding resources to Strategic Air Command, we put resources elsewhere, across the spectrum of war-fighting capability, in tactical forces. It is important that we consider this from an Air Force point of view, not just SAC. LeMay: To go back to your question, “Was there any drastic change when the Kennedy administration came in?” The administration spouted new phrases and things of that sort, but as far as the Air Force was concerned, we had no radical change in thinking at all. We were all on the same track. However, the Kennedy administration thought that being as strong as we were was provocative to the Russians and likely to start a war. We in the Air Force, and I personally, believed the exact opposite. While we had all this superiority, we invaded no one; we didn’t launch any conquest for loot or territory. We just sat there with the strength. As a matter of fact, we lost because we didn’t threaten to use it when it might have brought advantages to the country. Catton: I think we all know, and it might b