ig. Gen. Leon W. Johnson. Courtesy Leon W. Johnson the Fifteenth Air Force Commander, however, my job was to get the crews trained and create an effective combat force. Burchinak He had been on the logistics side of the house all his career up until then, hadn’t he? Johnson: I think he had, yes. Burchinak He commanded depots and that sort of business. LeMay: One of the things General McMullen started was cross-training. Everybody had to be a pilot, a navigator, and a bombardier. As a matter of fact, he didn’t have people trained in their primary specialty before he started cross-training them on something else. Johnson: He made us cross-train before we were trained. I had been in personnel before I took the Fifteenth Air Force. I called in all the nonrated officers who were in the other services and who had been with us in the war. I tried to get them to come over to the Air Force. I promised them good careers. When I got to the Fifteenth Air Force, this program was working very well. I had a good engineering officer at Rapid City; I had good people generally. I received a call saying that we were only required to have twenty percent nonflying people in the Air Force; “You are over that, so get rid of these people.” I rebutted it and rebutted it and also the cross-training policy 75  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 88 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE so much that when Roger Ramey, who commanded Eighth Air Force, came to see me at Colorado Springs, he said, “All you are doing is making Headquarters sore at you. Those people are not going to make any changes up there.”8’ At SAC we couldn’t do our mission very well. That was the thing, as I saw it anyway, and I think some of the others agreed. Kohn: How did you understand your mission then, General Johnson? Did you look upon it as atomic warfare exclusively? Johnson: I never gave a thought to it being atomic warfare only. I was just training the crews, getting them combat capable to do whatever they needed to do. I