ical, administrative, production, and political delays. So few of the German jet fighters ever flew in combat that scholars estimate that they had little impact on the sustained air battle that raged over Germany. Murray, Strategy For Defeat, 252-253; R. J. Overy, “The Military and the European Economy 1939-1945,” MilitaTeschichtliche Mitteilungen (March 1979), 55-78; Walter J. Boyne, Messerschmitt Me 262 (Washington, 1982). 44  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 56 --- WORLD WAR 11: EUROPE that time; yet we had put in new crews and had told them, “This is a milk run.’’36 Burchinal: Was. it by late 1943 that air fighter opposition had fallen off? LeMay: It was after D-day in 1944. We had spent SO much time isolating the Normandy battlefield. We had beaten up all the airfields, or our fighters had beaten them up, and we had hit some with the bombers. Their oil supply was pretty well down at the time, too. So they just didn’t have it. There was absolutely no air opposition at all at the Normandy in~asion.~’ I think I heard once that two Me-109s got in and made a pass at the beach. That was all. There was no other air activity. The Germans just didn’t have it, couldn’t get it there. Johnson: To go back to the issue of the effectiveness of the strategic campaign, I must say that there are only certain things you can do with airplanes. You don’t have to be a genius to know that if you knock out an enemy’s oil, he can’t fly. But I think we were spattering our shots; it seems to me that when I was in operations with Spaatz in 1942, we had just too many targets on our list. You would just get started on one target system and say, “Oh, the fighters are starting to build up. You have got to hit these factories.” And then the loss of shipping in the Atlantic would capture our attention- 600,000 tons in one month, I remember. Then it would be said, “Hit the submarine pens.” You would just get started on one little program- something would happen-and you would have to ch