Anglia, and I would drive down to London about once a month. I had an old seven-passenger Packard. And on the way down there, I would fill it up with people thumbing rides. I would ask them B-24 Liberators enter target area in Ploesti at extremely low altitude against background of flame and smoke of burning fuel. 38  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 50 --- WORLD WAR 11: EUROPE Lt. Gen. Jacob Devers (right) saluting Col. Leon Johnson, moments after he had placed the Congressional Medal of Honor around Johnson’s neck, Shipdham, England, 1943. Courtesy Leon W. Johnson what group they belonged to, and they always sang the praises of their commanders. Some of them I knew, and I didn’t think they were as good as the men thought they were, but all of the men admired their commanders unless they had just lost one recently, or changed and they hadn’t come yet to admire their new one. Crews want to look up to their commanders, the same way I want to look up to my President. Burchinal: Of course, your crews hadn’t been there before, either, at treetop level. You would always hope that was going to surprise them. Johnson: After the mission was over, I went down to a little sergeant there, and he said, “Colonel, you practically lied to us.” I said, “How did I lie to you?” He said, “You said it wasn’t going to be bad.” I replied, “I didn’t say that; I said, ‘I hoped it wasn’t going to be bad.”’ Catton: There is an analogy to that, and it deserves more discussion later on-but as an anecdote I recall in March 1945 that we ran the first five low- level incendiary raids on Japan with the l3-29s out of the Marianas. At that time I was still flying a lead crew up in Saipan. We finally had developed good lead crews. We went to the prebriefing that the lead crews got, and we came back and worked the problem out with our people in the squadron. My 39  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 51 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE bombardier, a guy named “Porky” Canfield, commented, “Wa