mission was wasted? I can’t say any one of them was wasted. They all accumulated to the point that we did win and probably at a much lower cost than if we had to invade under different circumstances. Burchinal: Did you recognize that the quality of the German Air Force deteriorated from attrition-loss of pilots and all-and that the Germans weren’t as effective as they had been? LeMay: Yes. We knew their effectiveness was going down. For instance, when they started shooting those missiles at us, if their crews had been a little better trained, if they had come in a little bit sooner with sights for the missiles, it would have been a different picture.34 If the crews had been a little more experienced, it probably would have been a different picture. You could tell the difference in the quality of German pilots. 33 Maj. Gen Frederick L. Anderson (1905-69) was a graduate of West Point (1928) and an early convert to strategic bombing. As a second lieutenant, Anderson decided to devote his career to studying and learning about strategic air warfare. In the 1930s he flew and worked in the 2d Bombardment Group with Maj. George E. Stratemeyer, Capt. Clarence L. Tinker, and 1st Lt. Kenneth N. Walker. When the war came, Anderson helped organize the expansion of bomber training in the United States. He went to Europe in May 1943 and commanded a new bomb wing, the 4.th Bombardment Wing, Eighth Air Force. This wing embraced the 94th, 95th, and 96th Bomb Groups (96 B-17s). From May 1943 to May 1945, Anderson participated in every major bombing campaign of the European war. During the war, he rose to command Eighth Air Force’s VIII Bomber Command. Maj. Gen. Anderson retired in 1947, and during the Eisenhower administration served as the US. Ambassador to NATO (1952-53). 34 During the summer of 1943 the German Air Force refined its fighter tactics against the massed formations of Allied bombers. The Germans began using large formations of fighters, which attacked the Allied bombers