try to baby them a little bit, and give them an easy mission to stisrt with. We broke them in that way. Without exception, every time a new group went into combat, they usually screwed up the first mission. Kohn: Was your experience similar to that, General Johnson? Johnson: I have said many times I never saw a mission in World War I1 that 35  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 47 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE went of’f the way it was briefed. I thought it depended very much on the leadership and who was leading it. Always, something different occurred, something you had not expected. Kohn: General LeMay told me last night that he never agreed with the frag order as it came down from wing when he was in the group. He was always calling lback up and arguing with the folks. Was that only in the first year or two, only in 1942, General LeMay? LeMay: To start off with, yes I argued. Then later on they got a little education down at Bomber Command, and it got a little bit better. They changed operations officers, and General Orvil Anderson came over.25 Remember, Orvil supposedly was one of our top thinkers and tacticians in the Army Air Forces. He would run out the order, and as soon as he got it ready to go, lie put it on the teletype, then went to bed just as we would begin getting it out in the outfits. I wouldn’t like some of the things I saw. The colonel he left on duty down there wouldn’t do anything about it, and I would finally have to go get Orvil out of bed and get some changes made. In other words it was a matter of education. Orvil’s theory was fine, but he had no practical experience. He hadn’t been there, and it was only natural that he missed a lot of things. Kohn: Was your experience similar to that, General Johnson? Johnson: General LeMay was at a higher echelon than I was. We carried out the orders. We fussed about them sometimes and tried to get changes made, but they generally came down to us from the division, and we accepted them most of the tim