d raids, instead of massed formations, to attack targets throughout the length and breadth of Japan. For Burchinal, these new tactics signaled that victory was near. Resistance to this air campaign was minimal. Burchinal recalled that every B-29 squadron was throwing its maximum effort against virtually every Japanese city. Japanese harbors and sea lanes were being mined and blockaded. Recalling those times, he remembered thinking then that if the Japanese could defend neither the airspace over their cities nor the sea lanes to their ports, their resistance could not continue indefinitely. The Japanese government surrendered in September 1945. Unlike most of his fellow airmen, Burchinal did not return to the United States immediately. Instead, he joined the Strategic Bombing Survey, spending eight months studying how the economic, military, and political infrastructure of 12  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 22 --- INTRODUCTION Japan disintegrated under the combined effects of strategic bombing and the naval blockade. Following this analytical work, he accompanied Maj. Gen. Orvil A. Anderson, AAF, to Montgomery, Alabama, where he joined Air University’s initial faculty. Teaching in the Air Strategy Division, he had the unusual opportunity of traveling extensively, since he and one other officer had responsibility for organizing the Air Force’s first worldwide commanders’ conference. They visited every command, briefed senior air leaders, and conducted the meeting at Maxwell AFB, Alabama, in 1949. This gathering became the model for subsequent worldwide commanders’ confer- ences. For Burchinal, the decade of the 1950s was seminal: air assignments working directly for senior air leaders; command of SAC bomb wings; promotion to general officer; and, finally, assignment to a major staff position on the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In April 1951, Gen. Muir S. Fairchild, Air Force Vice Chief of Staff, selected Burchinal to be the first secretary of the newly created A