mebody got fired, Io8 Within the Air Force, SAC was considered to be an elite command. It had a certain spirit, which was depicted, along with the pressures of working under constant nuclear alerts, in three contemporary Hollywood films: Strategic Air Command (1955), Bombers B-52 (1957), and A Gathering of Eagles (1963). '09 The 43d Bomb Wing (B-47~) was based at Davis-Monthan AFB, Arizona. 97  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 110 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE “I can’t afford to differentiate between the incompetent and the unfortunate.” Catton: He was somewhat “less than tolerant” for failure to perform. LeMay: We checked all of these things, all the time. We had a team go out. They would take off from Offutt, clear for one base but land at another, and hand the commander a letter: “Execute your war plan.” Burchinak Then we got into “No-notice.” In other words, you would go into a period where orders might come to your wing without warning. All of a sudden, the word would come through; you went to the airplane, and you took off-twelve airplanes out of the wing. You flew a profile of your combat mission. You would do a radar-bombing attack, perhaps from Tucson, on a target in France. Then you would land in England, and you would come on back. You might do this a couple of times. You never did pack a bag for that; you had the bag packed, stored down in operations. Johnson: I want to inject something here-I think I mentioned it casually before-curt earned all his commands. He progressed by good work from the bottom up. I don’t think he knew as many people as some of the rest of us Brig. Gen. 0. Ohman, Commander, 36th Air Division, congratulates Col. David Burchinal, Commander, 43d Bomb Wing, immediately after Burchinal landed the 1st B47 assigned to the 43d Wing, while Mrs. Burchinal and daughter Wendy look on. 98  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 111 --- SAC IN THE 1950s AND EARLY 1960s Brig. Gen. Catton stands before a I . B-52 at Homestead Air Force