Berlin. In a speech to the Soviet military in June 1961, he outlined his plans for unilaterally removing Berlin from control of the United States, France, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union, making it a free city in the midst of East Germany, a satellite state of the Soviet Union. In August, East Germany moved to stop the flood of refugees into West Berlin by constructing a wall. In this crisis, American military forces were mobilized and sent to Germany. The Cuban Missile Crisis of October 1962, perhaps the most serious confrontation ever between the United States and the Soviet Union, thus capped three years of heightened tensions between the two nations, tensions which also included conflict and competition in Latin America and the Far East as well as Europe and the Caribbean. For biographies of Khrushchev see Edward Crankshaw, Khrushchev: A Career (New York, 1967); Roy A. Medvedev and Zhores A. Medvedev, Khrushchev: The Years in Power (New York, 1976). For accounts of Khrushchev and the Cuban Missile Crisis see Robert M. Slusser, The Berlin Crisis of 1961 (Baltimore, 1973); Arnold L. Horelick, “The Cuban Missile Crisis, An Analysis of Soviet Calculations and Behavior,” World Politics 16 (April 1964): 363-389. 113  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 126 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE indication of what they wanted in terms of support for the President. So we were able at the military level, from the JCS on down (without involving the politicians) to put SAC on a one-third airborne alert, to disperse part of the force to civilian airfields, with nuclear weapons, to arm our air defense fighter forces with nuclear weapons and disperse them, and to take all of the ICBMs we had, including those still in the contractors’ hands, and count them down. These were things that would be visible to the Soviets, just in the event that the tough talk would excite the Soviets sufficiently to think they might want to do something. I remember our Ambassador in Moscow at the tim