s disposal. World War 11: The Pacific Kohn: 11: was different, however, in the Pacific where you were an 38 In the winter and spring months of 19434, the Allied air forces had three major objectives: carrying the war directly to Germany through the Combined Bomber Offensive; conducting a sustained air interdiction campaign against German/French transportation and communication networks prior to the June 6, 1944, Normandy invasion; and, destroying the German rocket launching sites in northwest France from which the V-1 and V-2 rockets were being sent against Great Britain. In December 1943, the V-1 and V-2 rocket threat seemed to be the most oininous as British intelligence identified 75 sites in operation or under construction along the French coast. When the British Chiefs of Staff requested in December that Eighth Air Force’s heavy bombers hit the rocket sites, the command complied while it continued to fly the Combined Bomber Offensive against Germany. Lt. Gen. Carl “Tooey” Spaatz, Commander, U.S. Strategic Air Forces, directed both bombing campaigns. From December to April, the number of Eighth Air Force sorties devoted to the rocket site attacks, called Operation CROSSBOW, escalated dramatically, reaching a peak of 4,150 in April 1944. In late March, General Eisenhower, who was Supreme Commander, Allied Expeditionary Forces, and Spaatz’ immediate superior, adopted a British-conceived air interdiction plan (the Transportation Plan), which stipulated the use of virtually all of the Allied air forces against the transportation networks in western and northern France prior to the Normandy invasion. Spaatz complied, but the situation of multiple objectives and finite strategic air resources was creating strains within American and Allied commands. See Walt W. Rostow, Pre-Invasion Bombing Strategy: General Eisenhower’s Decision of 25 March 1944 (Austin, Tex., 1984); Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., The Air Plan That Defeated Hitler (Atlanta, 1972); Solly Zuckerman, From Apes