le Crisis (October 1962) and the early period of the Vietnam War (1961-65), both of which he discusses in this interview. In 1965 LeMay retired, having served the nation in uniform for thirty-seven years. Subsequently, he published his memoirs and in 1968 ran for Vice- President with Governor George C. Wallace of Alabama on the American Independent Party ticket. They lost and LeMay returned to private life, but true to his interest in air power and his concern for national defense, he has periodically visited Air Force installations and provided his judgments on issues of current concern. General Johnson was born in Columbus, Missouri, in September 1904. He enrolled in the United States Military Academy at West Point in the summer of 1922, graduating in the upper half of his class. Commissioned a second lieutenant in the summer of 1926, he entered the Infantry, but shortly after completing basic training he transferred to the Army Air Corps. He 7  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 17 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE never returned to the Infantry, serving the balance of his thirty-nine-year military career with air forces. During the 1930s Johnson served as an observation pilot at Mitchel Field, New York, and Nichols Field, Philippine Islands, spent an academic year at California Institute of Technology (Master of Science in Meteorology), held command and staff assignments in operational and support units, and attended the Air Corps Tactical School at Maxwell Field, Alabama. In September 1939 Germany invaded Poland and World War I1 began in Europe. In the thirteen years since his commissioning in 1926, Johnson had been promoted from second lieutenant to captain; in the next four he would rise from captain to brigadier general. For most of World War 11, the United States’ preeminent strategic air force was the Eighth Air Force in Europe. Johnson flew and fought with the Eighth throughout the war, from its activation in January 1942 until victory in Europe in May 19