avy AA areas, you were pretty much home free. LeMay: In other words what we were trying to do was make maximum use of the tools we had, to get the maximum use out of them; tactics and everything went out the window. Johnson: I have been quiet all this time because I wasn’t involved in this, but I do think, going back to pressure, that General Arnold kept pressure on everyone to keep going and moving and moving. I talked to Larry Norstad for three hours recently at his home. Arnold put General LeMay there to put the pressure on because he knew General LeMay would do it. There wasn’t any question about that; he wanted more bombs on those targets. He wanted them everywhere. Burchinal: Earlier we were getting it from Arnold-before Curt showed up in the Pacific-because we weren’t doing much then. The results were not very encouraging. Johnson: Twining, who had the Fifteenth Air Force down in Italy in World War 11, was bombing away, and he told a couple of us this story perhaps ten years ago.66 The war was about to end in Europe, and Arnold came down to see him. Arnold said, “Nate, you are doing a lousy job down here. How are you going to get this war finished unless you get more bombs on those targets? Old “Joe” Cannon over there is doing a lousy job with the T~elfth.~’ 66 Gen. Nathan F. Twining (1897-1982) was one of General Arnold‘s combat commanders in World War 11. A professional soldier who graduated from the U.S. Military Academy in 1918, Twining had risen slowly to the rank of colonel in the Army Air Corps before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. In the spring of 1942 Twining went to the South Pacific as a brigadier general, serving as Chief of Staff, Allied Air Forces and Commanding General, Thirteenth Air Force. In the Pacific he directed the tactical air operations in the Solomon Islands Campaign. In November 1943 he became Commander, Fifteenth Air Force, then based in Italy. This air force participated in the Combined Bomber Offensive against Germany throug