d see what he says.” Sherman was the operations He not Maj. Gen. Curtis LeMay (left) and Brig. Gen. Roger Ramey, Commander of the XX Bomber Command, pictured before LeMay’s departure to assume command of the XXI Bomber Command. 42 Adm. Forrest P. Sherman (1896-1951) graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1917 and became a naval aviator in the 1920s. In the interwar years he remained in naval aviation, becoming in 1940 the fleet aviation offcer for the United States Fleet, based in Norfolk, Virginia. In September 1942, Captain Sherman was commanding the Wasp, an aircraft carrier in the Pacific, when it sank under Japanese attack during the Battle of Guadalcanal. Subsequently, Sherman went to Honolulu and worked at Headquarters, U.S. Navy, Pacific Ocean Areas. During the battle for Okinawa in April 1945, Rear Admiral Sherman was Admiral Chester Nimitz’s Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans. 50  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 63 --- WORLD WAR 11: THE PACIFIC only said, “No,” he said, “Hell, no!” We ought to keep on. We spent another three weeks just postholing the fields. There was nothing left to bomb. We used up all of our delayed action fuses to confuse the issue a little bit and dropped bombs in there that would go off sometime later. Kohn: That was only one month of the campaign. Catton: One month, but how long was the campaign? You are dealing in very short periods of time now. Our real effort virtually began in 1945. Europe was over; we were now concentrating on Japan. Hell, one month out of that campaign was a very large percentage of the campaign. LeMay: Remember, we just had a few months until the first of November when ths invasion of the Japanese home islands was scheduled to begin.43 Burchinal: I remember at one point on Okinawa the Japanese had dug themselvla into those cliffs way back in the caves. We were dropping napalm on them from E29s at low level; then we figured out we had to drop the napalm inert and come in with firebombs to light it af