back and worked the problem out with our people in the squadron. My 39  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 51 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE bombardier, a guy named “Porky” Canfield, commented, “Wait till you hear this; this will kill you.” We were going in at 4,500 feet as the lead crew on Tokyo. We had never attacked below 24,000-25,000 feet before that time. Of course, it was a night operation, and an entirely different proposition than Ploesti--it was very successful.** LeMay: We will get into the discussion as to why this happened later on. Kohn: I3efore we shift to the Japanese campaign, let me ask what the four of you think was the major factor in our success in the strategic bombing of Germany? While we argue over a definition of success, historians generally believe that the bombing of Germany wrought tremendous havoc on the Germans, and that bombing contributed materially to ending the war and ending it more quickly. There has been a continuing dispute over the word “decisive,” and controversy over the effectiveness of the campaign. LeMay: The biggest factor was getting the airplanes over there necessary to do the job. Kohn: .Was it numbers, General LeMay? LeMay: It was plain and simple numbers. There was no radical change in tactics or anything else. In the early days we just didn’t have enough airplanes to do the job. All the writings you see of the failures of the Army Air Forces to prove Mitchell and Douhet correct are wrong. We simply did not have an air force there to do the job well. We did what fighting we could, The March 9-10, 1945, low-level, night fire raid on Tokyo signaled a major change in the strategic campaign against Japan. General LeMay, commanding XXI Bomber Command for about six weeks, had concluded that high-altitude, precision bombing was not succeeding because of poor weather and an unexpectedly fast jet stream over Japanese targets. According to historian James Lea Cate, LeMay’s decision turned essentially on operational factors