ruary 1942. That was the first time we were generating relatively well- trained combat crews for B-l7s, and the demands from the United Kingdom were horrendous. Burchinal: We produced airplanes faster than we did crews. Johnson: One of the worst features of gunnery early in the game was that the guns froze at altitude. They had no oil that would take the low temperatures up there, so the machineguns froze up at altitude. But we corrected that.. I think it took about a month to do it. LeMay: We corrected it by washing the guns in gasoline before we put them in. You had to stand around with a club to do that, because all the gunners thought, ‘‘Just a little bit of oil on there won’t hurt it.” But the oil would freeze up. We finally learned to wash all the oil off when you assembled the guns for a mission. Burchinal: Dry guns. l3 LeMay commanded the 305th Bomb Group that arrived in Chelveston, England, in September 1942. A El7 outfit, the 305th gained a reputation for tactical innovation, based largely on LeMay’s interest in bomber tactics and concern for rigorous training. Disappointed in the bomb group’s initial missions over the continent during which most of the El7 crews failed to drop bombs accurately and showed a lack of air discipline, LeMay began experimenting with tactical formations. Rather quickly he settled on a staggered three-element combat box formation with eighteen bombers in the “box.” The group’s three six-plane squadrons were then positioned in a lead-high-low wedge-shaped formation. This arrangement (see illustration) gave the group a compact, yet maneuverable, “box-like” formation. On the bombing run LeMay ordered his pilots, navigators, and bombardiers to concentrate on the lead aircraft and to fly straight and level over the target. At this time accepted air tactics called for the bombers to maneuver every few seconds over the target to avoid enemy antiaircraft fire. LeMay rejected this conventional wisdom and told his bomb group to concentrate