hriever, the Atlas had the highest priority of any weapon developed and fielded during the Eisenhower administration. Begun in January 1955, the Atlas was rushed from research and development to operational status in three years and three months. The Strategic Air Command activated its first Atlas missile wing at Francis E. Warren AFB, Wyoming, in 1958. From that time forward the number of Atlas ICBMs increased steadily, until December 1962 when there were 142 in SAC's missile force. For a few years, these Atlas missiles were the bulwark of the nation's ICBM deterrent force. Then in the 196Os, SAC's missile force gained the more advanced Minuteman and Titan I1 missiles. By June 1965 all of the Atlases had been removed from the active force. 102  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 115 --- SAC IN THE 1950s AND EARLY 1960s Launch of an Atlas ICBM from Vandenberg Air Force Base, California. the target-all that good stuff.’14 These idiots pulled me down into the basement there and started explaining to me that we were going to shoot this rocket, that was going to go 5,000 miles and it was going to be within-what the hell did we have then-I guess about a mile of the target. LeMay: About a mile or two miles. Catton: About a mile circular error. There you are, shooting a rocket like a cannon, and it is going to go 5,000 miles and be within a mile of the aiming point. That was just hard for me to comprehend. That makes you apprehensive. Then there was General LeMay’s point about being tested fully, and being sure you know what you are doing. I don’t know how the ICBM could have gotten more momentum behind it than was given by SAC. ‘I4 CEP is an acronym for “circular error probable.” It is a term to describe accuracy: one- half of all shells, bombs, or missile warheads will fall within a specified radius of a circle centered on the target. Thus, a one-mile CEP would mean that one-half of all the weapons aimed at a specific target or point would fall within one mile of