gnment to a major staff position on the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In April 1951, Gen. Muir S. Fairchild, Air Force Vice Chief of Staff, selected Burchinal to be the first secretary of the newly created Air Force Council. Composed of the Chief of Staffs five principal deputies, the council met frequently and recommended action on matters of policy and resource allocation throughout the service. Burchinal’s job was to brief each issue and record the council’s recommendations to the Chief of Staff. This council, like the worldwide commanders’ conferences, became a permanent fixture in the Air Force. In April 1953, Burchinal left Washington for Kansas, assuming command of SAC‘s 40th Bomb Wing (B-29s) at Smokey Hill AFB. His timing was excellent; SAC‘s forces were being modernized, converting from long-range propeller-driven B-29s, B-50s, and B-36s to all-jet, refuelable B-47~ and B-52s. Eight months after joining SAC, Burchinal was selected by General LeMay to command a B-47 wing, the 43d Bomb Wing, which had a distinguished combat record. Successful, he was promoted to general officer and reassigned as the Chief of Staff, Eighth Air Force. The Eighth’s mission was to plan, prepare, and train for launching strategic air forces from bases located in the northeast and central United States against the Soviet Union in case of war. In 1958 Burchinal left SAC, becoming the Deputy Director, 5-3 (Operations), for the Joint Chiefs of Staff. This assignment began an eight-year period, 1958-66, of senior staff positions with the JCS and USAF Headquarters. In August 1962 Burchinal left the JCS and went to work for General LeMay, then Chief of Staff of the Air Force, as his Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs. Six months later Lt. Gen. Burchinal became Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Operations, the principal deputate for formulat- ing operational plans at USAF Headquarters and the key Air Force officer on policy issues to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Culminating these Pent