fighters caused considerable losses. By contrast, the El7 possessed the heaviest armament of any Allied bomber early in the war. The B-17 had eight .50-caliber machineguns mounted in the nose, tail, turrets above and below the fuselage (both were power-operated, rotating twin .50-cal. guns), and, later, two “chin” guns forward of the cockpit. Kenneth G. Munson, Aircraft of World War Two (New York, 1962), 43, 152. lo In 194243 American and British air leaders disagreed on the proper method for employing strategic air forces against Germany. Initially, American air leaders planned to use heavily armed, long-range bombers equipped with gyroscope-controlled bombsights to carry out massed daylight strikes against specific targets in Germany. Consequently, the American war plan specified a force structure of strategic bombers-first, B17s and B-24s, then B-29s and E36s, which would be massed at high altitudes to carry out the precision bombing campaign. The British Royal Air Force, relying on the operational experiences learned in 193941, adopted a strategic bombing campaign based on a stream of bombers flying at night and striking “areas” rather than precise targets. When the American bomber forces went to England in July-August 1942, the issue of daylight or night, precision or area bombing tactics, was discussed by American and British military and political leaders. However, while the discussions were significant it is far more important to recognize that the general concept of employing strategic air forces against Germany had been settled-Allied strategic air forces would carry the war to Germany in the long months before the invasion and liberation of the continent. Not until January 1944 were long-range fighters (P47s, P-51s) available in quantity in Europe. These fighters escorted the American bombers into Germany and fought an intense, sustained, and 24  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 34 --- WORLD WAR I1 PLANNING Catton: Of course, you had the advanta