aduated from the US. Military Academy in 1904. Prior to World War 11, he traveled and studied extensively in China, Japan, and the Far East. Early in the war, he was selected as commander of all US. Army forces in the China-Burma- India Theater and chief of staff to Gen. Chiang Kai-shek, leader of the Chinese Nationalist forces. When the Japanese defeated Chiang’s Nationalist forces in 1942, Brig. Gen. Stilwell personally led the remnant army on a 140-mile forced march into the interior of China. In order to supply this Nationalist army, Stilwell asked the Army Air Forces to establish an airlift from India over the Himalayan Mountains to China. When General LeMay arrived in India in late August 1944 to command the XX Bomber Command, Stilwell had been promoted to four-star rank by President Roosevelt and was the Deputy Supreme Allied Commander of the China- Burma-India Theater under Adm. Lord Louis Mountbatten. See Charles F. Romanus and Riley Sunderland, Stilwell’s Mission to China, Vol 1, in US. Army in World War Zfi China-lndia- Burma Theater (Washington, 1953); Tuchman, Stilwell and the American Experience in China, 256-349. 73  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 86 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE Demobilization was not a demobilization; it was a We just walked away and left everything. We started with nothing; I don’t think we had a squadron left together in late 1945 or early 1946. We were starting to rebuild when I took over the Fifteenth, hoping to get more personnel and more crews and get the Air Force going again. We were expanding the force. George Kenne~,~~ the SAC Commander, was actually not very active in running SAC. In my opinion he was busy on other things that were of interest to him, and he left most of his work to General McMullen, who was his chief of staff.*’ General McMullen had many ideas which I don’t believe were really conducive to building an effective striking force. In his own mind it was what he wanted. He said, “I want to build a rou