rth Vietnamese capability of supporting the war in the South. But it was never approved, and we were never given authority to get them.“ Kohn: Was that after we began Rolling Th~nder?’~’ Burchinak No. Rolling Thunder was substantially later. Johnson: It seemed to me that the handwriting was on the wall quite a bit earlier over there. Think back to Korea. I remember that Eisenhower promised that if elected, he would go to Korea. He went and got about the same settlement that Truman could have had any time he wanted it. We left our troops over there, and they are still there. Looking at that in 1961, I know On November 1, 1964, the Joint Chiefs of Staff verbally recommended to Secretary McNamara that the Air Force commence within sixty to seventy-two hours the systematic bombing of ninety-four strategic targets in North Vietnam. When President Johnson considered this recommendation, both Secretary of Defense McNamara and Secretary of State Dean Rusk advised a policy of restraint. Consequently, the President decided not to launch the air strikes; instead he opted for a much more restrained and limited air campaign called BARREL ROLL. See Futrell, The Advisory Years to 1965, 253-256. 14’ ROLLING THUNDER was the code name for the expanded, intermittent air campaign by American air forces against North Vietnam from February 1965 to March 1968. Its purpose was to strike at North Vietnam and persuade that government to seek a negotiated peace. Two other objectives were to use American air power to boost South Vietnamese morale and to demonstrate United States resolve following the destruction by the Viet Cong of a U.S. Army barracks which killed 23 soldiers. During ROLLING THUNDER Air Force and Navy forces flew 306,380 sorties and dropped 640,ooO tons of bombs on North Vietnam. See Lewy, America in Vietnam, 375406; William W. Momyer, Airpower in Three Wars (Washington, 1978), 90-98; Carl Berger, ed., United States Air Force in Southeast Asia, 1961-1973: An Illustrated Accou