don’t remember being opposed to the mission; I was opposed to going in at low altitude. We were right at the peak of our high-altitude bombing training. We had done one or two good missions just before that up in England, and we thought we could do it from altitude and not take the losses. We knew-I had been in attack fighters for years-that anybody can hit an airplane going in at treetop level, even with a rock if he throws it at the right place. So we knew we could be knocked down. We thought we were at the peak of bombing training. We wrote a letter to Gen. Brereton trying to get the orders changed, but he said that it would take a campaign to destroy Ploesti at altitude, which it did a year later, and that we didn’t have the airplanes for a sustained campaign.” All we could afford was one mission, and we would do it at low level. So we did it. Kohn: Was it difficult to motivate the crews because of that change in tactics? Was it a leadership rather than a . . . Johnson: No, no question. The crews wanted to look up to their commanders. Good Lord, their lives depended on their commander! I never saw crews that 26 Air planners had long been interested in oil: destroy the enemy’s oil refineries, and its armies, navies, and air forces could not fight. Intelligence sources had estimated that 60 percent of Germany’s oil was being produced at the Ploesti, Rumania, oil refineries. Consequently, Army Air Forces planners devised a mission that would fly from Allied airfields in North Africa across the Mediterranean and Yugoslavia to Rumania where it would destroy the refineries. It was to be a single mission, with a massed formation of heavy bombers (177) flying at low level and traversing 2,000 miles from start to finish. For an account of the plan and its execution, see Dugan and Stewart, Ploesti; Wolff, Low LevelMission; and Freeman, The Mighty Eighth, 8691. 27 Lt. Gen. Lewis H. Brereton (1890-1967). A graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy (191 I), Brereton resigned his Na