hout the Air Force. 'I7 Gen. Mark E. Bradley (1907-) was a graduate of West Point (1930) who entered the Artillery Branch, but switched to the Air Corps, learning to fly at Brooks and Kelly Fields, Texas. A fighter pilot, Bradley became in 1937 a test pilot at Wright Field, Ohio. Before World War I1 he was the P-47 project officer, shepherding the aircraft through testing and development into production. For much of the war Bradley remained at Wright Field as Chief of the Fighter Branch and Flight Test Section. In 1945 he went to the Pacific theater, serving as Chief of Staff, Fifth Air Force. An experienced aeronautical engineer, Bradley returned to Wright Field after the war and worked on refueling technologies for extending the range of bombers and fighters. Successful, he moved into senior leadership positions at Headquarters USAF in the 1950s and subsequently, in 1962, became the Commander of the Air Force Logistics Command. He retired in 1965. 105  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 118 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE Then, when we got the B47, an airplane which would not reach the number one target even from advanced bases, we had to have refueling."* Fortunately, there was some redundancy built into the thing, and we got the range increased and started getting more out of the engines that we had. We were planning on about sixty hours on the engines when we bought them, and we bought a whole flock of engines for the B47s that we never used because in later versions we increased the engine usage tremendously. Catton: They never wore out. LeMay: Needing tankers for the B47s gave us the impetus to spend the money for a tanker force. Then Boeing, of course, with some advanced thinking on their own, produced the KC-135 "'-the commercial 707-as a .~ . . . . . . -. J3-47, SAC'S first all-jet bomber. 'I8 The B47 was the Air Force's first all-jet bomber. Built by Boeing, the first flight of the XB47 was in December 1947, and the first production model, the B47A, arr