ody understands that, and they do their best to get the best effort. Burchinal: Dick, since I worked for Curt about as long as anybody-during the war, in SAC, and in the Pentagon-there are some things he won’t say. But I was an observer of his effectiveness, and I will add to what he says because he is probably too modest to tell you about it. It starts with a thorough knowledge of your own equipment, and the capability of your crews-their training, and their general and specific capabilities. With that very firmly and clearly in mind, in detail, then you need a thorough knowledge of what the enemy can do, either to counter what you are trying to do, or oppose your forces with any degree of success-at least with sufficient effectiveness to stop your particular efforts. You have to have the ability to inspire belief among your troops; that is, they must believe in their mission and in their leader-a mystique, really, rather than charisma. The gentleman we are talking about has that above all else. Decisiveness. You make decisions, and you take the responsibility for them, and nobody questions. Setting an example by your own dedication and work and 130  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 143 --- LEADERSHIP knowledge seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day, and there is no question in anybody’s mind that the service comes first. There is no competition for your loyalty and your dedication, none whatsoever when someone like Curt LeMay is your commander. Catton: That is very well put, David Burchinal. I agree with what you said. I would add to that, but you know that knowledge and understanding of capabilities and limitations of equipment and people is so important. That only comes from dedication, experience, and participation. And of course, you can’t do those things unless you are a courageous guy with absolute integrity and dedication. I use the term image instead of mystique, but I like mystique better. Burchinal: But it is not necessarily charisma. Catto