thoven, Charles J. Hitch, K. Wayne Smith, Henry Rowen, Russell Murray, Adam Yarmolinsky, and Daniel Ellsberg. Led by Hitch and Enthoven, these civilian advisers used systems analysis and economics to devise and implement a new planning- programming-budgeting system (PPBS). That system forced the military services to bring their operational plans and weapons programs into alignment with their annual budget requests. In turn, this system allowed McNamara and his advisors to choose between service programs and to set priorities. See Alain C. Enthoven and K. Wayne Smith, How Much Is Enough? Shaping the Defense Program 1961-1969 (New York, 1971); Charles J. Hitch, Decision-making for Defense (New York, 1965); Kaufman, McNamara Strategy. 121  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 134 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE Maj. Gen. Ton That Dinh, Commander of I1 Army Corps of Armed Forces for Republic of Vietnam, ex- plains the usage of the na- tive bow gun to Gen. Curtis LeMay, Chief of Staff, USAF, during LeMay’s trip to Vietnam in April 1962. But we couldn’t convince anybody in the Pentagon at the time it wouldn’t work. Burchinal: It also conveyed to the enemy a clear impression of weakness, of lack of will. You don’t have the will, really, or the guts, when push comes to shove. LeMay: That’s right. And they were right; we didn’t have it. Burchinak Exactly; we didn’t have it at the political level. By the way, Dick, don’t ever use “counterforce targeting” and “McNamara” in the same paragraph. He gutted any capability we had for counterforce targeting. He would absolutely not let us program forces for counterforce targeting. I once took him a program when the Soviets had started to build up a pretty reasonable intercontinental missile force. I wanted on the basis of our missile PK and reliability factors to buy enough Minutemen to put reliably one missile on every bloody silo he had-just He wouldn’t have any part ‘39 PK stands for probability of kill. It is a term used in opera