h new, all-jet B-47s, B-52s, and B-58s. SAC grew to 224,014 people and 2,711 aircraft by 1957, the year LeMay left the command to become Vice Chief of Staff, USAF. His legacy to SAC was the command itself: an American strategic air force that had become the dominant element in contemporary U.S. military strategy and the single most powerful military force in the history of war. He remained at USAF Headquarters for eight years (1957-65), four as Vice Chief and four as Chief of Staff. During these years many of the Air Force’s most significant issues concerned strategic forces. These included the acquisition and deployment of intercontinental ballistic missiles (Atlas, Titan, and Minuteman); continued modernization of manned bombers (B-58, B-70); standardization of all air refueling systems; evolution of advanced command control systems; development of satellites for reconnaissance, communications, and weather missions; and the establishment of a joint service strategic target planning agency. As Vice Chief, LeMay worked directly for Gen. Thomas D. White, Air Force Chief of Staff (1957-61), and with Gen. Nathan F. Twining, USAF, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (1957-60). When General White retired in 1961, LeMay succeeded him. His tenure as Chief of Staff, coinciding with the Kennedy administration years, was turbulent and acrimonious. He clashed repeatedly with Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Maxwell Taylor. They differed on strategy, weapons, budgets, and people. Not only were their differences irreconcilable, but their resolution by McNamara and Taylor tended to downgrade the primacy of strategic nuclear forces in American military policy and strategy. Also in these years LeMay participated in the Cuban Missile Crisis (October 1962) and the early period of the Vietnam War (1961-65), both of which he discusses in this interview. In 1965 LeMay retired, having served the nation in uniform for thirty-seven ye