ered to include training of the South Vietnamese forces. Led by Lt. Gen. Samuel T. Williams, U.S. Army, the size of the group fluctuated between 600 and 700 men drawn from all of the military services. The Army continued its predominance in people and mission, although there were a few Air Force officers and men there to train pilots in the small 3,000-man South Vietnamese Air Force. From 1961 until the Americanization of the war in 1965, the size of the MAAG gradually expanded, and its mission changed in two fundamental ways: first, the administrative burden of distributing and accounting for US. aid increased dramatically; second, the advisors’ direct combat support to the South Vietnamese forces became routine. In January 1962, the MAAG in Saigon became the Military Assistance Command, Vietnam (MAC-V), the principal American military command that conducted the war. Ronald H. Spector, United States Army in Vietnam, Advice and Support: The Early Years (Washington, 1983), 115-121, 259-262; Futrell, Advisory Years, 46-59, 79-84; Lewy, America in Vietnam, 22-24. 120  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 133 --- WAR IN SOUTHEAST ASIA Catton: We might even go back to flexible response for just a moment. Everybody can define a phrase, but we witnessed what some people thought was flexible response. The administration and the civilian leadership in the Pentagon determined that flexible response was “use just enough, not too much.” Flexible response in that manner was and is absolutely a loser. We always were forced to use just enough military power to get the job done and no more. Of course, when you use that philosophy, you always come out a loser. That happened and was going on during the standdown of Cuba and certainly was reflected in the efforts over there in Vietnam throughout, but particularly before 1965 and 1966. Burchinal: Remember these were the Whiz Kids, the so-called intellectuals, who thought they had all the answers.138 They didn’t understand militar