f the Chief of Bombardment. Late in 1944, he went to the Marianas with the XXI Bomber Command. That command was one of the two bomber commands of the Twentieth Air Force, the AAF‘s long- range strategic air force in the Pacific. In November 1944, Colonel Montgomery became the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations for the bomber command. When General LeMay assunled command in January 1945, he served on his headquarters staff for the balance of the war. Fr@m 1948 to 1955, a1 period when LeMay was building the Strategic Air Command, General Montgomery waij the command’s Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, and then Eighth Air Force Commander. ‘’ The U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey was established by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the fall of 1944 to measure the effectiveness of strategic bombing in the Allied victory. Fourteen hundred officers, enlisted personnel, and civilians constituted the European survey team, and another 1,100 made up the team surveying the Pacific theater. The Survey’s lasting record is impresslve: (1) a definitive record of the strategic bombing effort; (2) a lengthy series of reports, each carefully researched and checked against available enemy records; (3) a series of conclusions comparing prewar strategic air doctrine with wartime performance. For a history of the Survey and its findings, see David MacIsaac, Strategic Bombing in World War Two: The Story of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey (New York, 1976). 53  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 66 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE well at the beginning because we used the B-29 as a very high-altitude airplane. We put it up at 32,000 feet; the Japanese fighters would hang on their props trying to get up there. But we also ran into jetstreams of 180 and 200 knots, and we had never run into those before.48 Catton: I led our group on the first mission out of the Marianas, it was an entirely different situation than the raids run out of India through China. We flew in formation all t