tegic Bombing Survey, Over-all Report (European War), September 30, 1945, vol 1, 2; Summary Report (Pacific War), July 1, 1946, vol 1, 16; Futrell, USAF in Korea, 1950-53, 689; Report by Directorate of Management Analysis, Headquarters USAF, USAF Management Summary Southeast Asia, September 28, 1973, p 18. 129  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 142 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE Catton: You have got the right words, Dave. LeMay: If you destroy their capability to win war, then the will to wage war disappears also. Leadership Kohn: Could I ask you one last question, about leadership? The issue, General LeMay, is your legendary leadership. Could you reflect on that a bit, what you were trying to do and how you motivated people throughout your career, how you got the job done in your various commands? LeMay: I don’t think we can cover that thoroughly in a short conversation. The main thing is having the right sense of responsibility, trying to get a job done, and transfering that to your troops. It is a team effort, of course, so you have got to get some good working members on your team on the top side, get your plans going, keep the troops abreast of what your goals are, and the way you are going to get it done. Make sure that they feel they can participate in the planning. Make them feel that they are a part of the team and that their thoughts get right up to the top before the decision is made. Once the decision is made, “This is the way we do it,” everybody turns to and gets it done. That is the secret to the whole capitalistic system, a system of reward and punishment. If you do the job, you get rewarded. If you didn’t get it done, you get fired. Somebody else comes in that will get it done. Of course, in war you have to be kind of ruthless in that regard. Everybody understands that, and they do their best to get the best effort. Burchinal: Dick, since I worked for Curt about as long as anybody-during the war, in SAC, and in the Pentagon-there are some things