r arrival they were flying bombing missions over France. Colonel LeMay’s 305th Bomb Group was one of VIII Bomber Command’s first four combat groups; it remained active in combat throughout the war, flying in virtually every major bombing campaign. LeMay himself flew with the bomb group, was highly decorated, and achieved a reputation for his leadership in combat, his innovations in training, and his development of new bombing techniques. A taciturn, studious bomber commander, LeMay was promoted to brigadier general in September 1943, one year after his arrival in the European theater. Seven months later, in March 1944, he was promoted again to the rank of major general. With rank came larger commands. Remaining within Eighth Air Force, he commanded a wing (146 E17s) and an air division (3 wings, totaling 266 B-17s and B-24s). He flew with his bomber forces, participating in some of the fiercest air battles of the war, including the Schweinfurt- 4  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 14 --- INTRODUCTION Regensburg raids, Big Week, and the early efforts over Normandy and Northern France. In late June 1944 he left Europe for the Pacific, becoming Commander of the XX Bomber Command, the Army Air Forces’ first operational strategic air command in the Pacific. Flying from operational bases in China, the B-29s under his command struck directly at strategic targets in Japan. As the Pacific war intensified in the winter of 1944-45, Gen. Henry H. Arnold, Commanding General, Army Air Forces, decided to concentrate all of the Pacific Theater strategic bombing operations from bases in the Mariana Islands. He ordered LeMay to move his bomber command from China to the Marianas. There, Arnold made LeMay commander of the XXI Bomber Command, a newer and larger command of B-29 bombers. From his new headquarters on Guam, LeMay planned and conducted B-29 strikes against Japanese industries, cities, and military installations. These air strikes devastated Japan and exerted pressur