r 11, Republic built a total of 15,579 P47s. The Air Corps maneuvers of May 1931 were led by Brig. Gen. Benjamin D. Foulois, Assistant Chief of the Air Corps, who organized a provisional air division (670 aircraft). With this air division, the Air Corps tested the air arm’s capability to deploy a large force from Wright Field in Dayton, Ohio, to several large midwestern and eastern cities: Chicago, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, and New York. While most of the flying involved aerial demonstrations over the cities, these maneuvers did test the Air Corps’ logistics and safety procedures. Judged on that basis, the maneuvers were successful. The 670 aircraft flew 37,000 hours without any serious accidents. See Shiner, Foulois and the US. Army Air Corps, 34-40. 21  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 31 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE would also have the attack airplanes to go in ahead and work over the antiaircraft. That was the general theory. All of the historians and writers now point out the fact it was a big surprise to us when we got over to Europe in the war and found that the bombers had to have fighter escort. It was no surprise; we always expected to have fighter escorts. The only trouble was, we didn’t have any fighters, and we had long since abolished the attack airplane, so we didn’t have any of them either. Kohn: Was there not a theory, at the time, that unescorted bombers could make it through to the target if you arranged them properly and armed them sufficientlyP r.. Brig. Gen. Haywood S. Hansell (left) Commander of the 305th Bomb Group, Curtis E. LeMay, of a Boeing B-17. In the 1930s this theory was discussed and taught at the Army Air Corps Tactical School at Maxwell Field, Alabama. There, a small, influential group of officers on the faculty, led by Maj. Harold L. George, Maj. Donald Wilson, 1st Lt. Kenneth L. Walker, and 2d Lt. Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., developed a set of concepts about air power. They believed that air power could directly influence the co