olt missile was an air-to-ground nuclear missile with a range of approximately 800 miles. Originally developed by the Air Force in the mid-l950s, the Skybolt was supported strongly by the British who wanted it for the RAF Vulcan bombers. Because of the Vulcan’s slow speed and large radar signature, it could not penetrate Soviet air defenses; but with the Skybolt it would be capable of striking at Soviet targets from standoff distances. In 1962, Secretary McNamara cancelled the Skybolt program, citing escalating costs and the technological success of another missile, the Minuteman. Shocked, the British made the Skybolt cancellation one of their discussion points at the December 1962 Bermuda Conference, attended by Prime Minister Harold M. Macmillan and President John F. Kennedy. There, McNamara stated the American position forcefully, and President Kennedy reaffmed the cancellation decision. In the later 1960s the British government turned away from bombers and began acquiring submarines equipped with ballistic missiles. See Trewhitt, McNamara, 172-178; Kaufman, McNamum Strategy, 124-125, 219-227; Richard E. Neustadt, Alliance Politics (New York, 1970), 30-55. 110  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 123 --- SAC IN THE 1950s AND EARLY 1960s Johnson: I know that when I briefed him in Paris-the last thing I did on active duty over thereabout the Europeans coming in with their conven- tional forces, McNamara said he wanted the British to put in more. I said, “We have been trying to get them to put in more, and they won’t do it. And I can understand why, personally.” He said, “Well, make them.” That was his concept: we would make these people do these things. Well, they haven’t put them in yet as far as I know. Catton: You know, Dick, I think it might be helpful to look at these policies from a different point of view: massive retaliation and SAC seem to be synonymous in some people’s minds (wrongly, but it is the case); flexible response seems to imply the rest o