ntieth Air Force. This air force had responsibility for all strategic air operations against Japan, including the atomic bombing mission which ended the war. In the years after the war, Norstad was one of the architects of the independent Air Force. In 1956 General Norstad became the Supreme Allied Commander, Europe (SACEUR), the allied command coordinating the military forces of the nations in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. He retired in 1963, after completing thirty-three years of military service. 30  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 41 --- WORLD WAR 11: EUROPE there except about a dozen enlisted men, a detachment with no spare parts, no mechanics, no nothing. But we got back to England in about four days.'' Johnson: That's the problem. It sounds so simple on paper; it sounds so right, but it doesn't work out that way. World War 11: Europe Kohn: What kind of modifications did you have to make that first year or two when you got to Europe? You now had the planes, you were there, and you knew what you wanted to do. You have talked in the past, General LeMay, about having to modify the tactics of actual bombing. Few people had experience; I suppose yours was the same experience, General Johnson? Johnson: No, I hadn't had as much in bombers. I had medium bomber experience, the B-18. We were practicing bombing with B-18s. I had been in attack fighters and then went into B-18s and A-~OS, but I had not been in heavy bombar,dment.*' l9 The mission of August 17, 1943, was the largest United States air strike of World War I1 to that date. Known as the Schweinfurt-Regensburg raid, it was the deepest penetration of Germany and involved 376 B-17s and 108 E24s. It provoked an intense, fiercely fought air battle over Germany: German Air Force fighters, flak, and rockets shot down 60 and damaged 168 B-17s and 22 B-24s. General LeMay commanded the 3d Bomb Division and flew the Lead El7 over Regens'burg and bombed the Messerschmitt aircraft factory. His division