9s stationed in India and China were relocated to Tinian and Guam Islands in the Marianas in the early spring of 1945 where they joined the E29 forces already based there. The War Department order was issued on February 6, 1945. A few weeks prior, on January 18th, LeMay had been transferred to the Marianas to command the XXI Bomber Command, Twentieth Air Force. ’’ Lt. Gen. Paul Stanley Emrick, (1914- ) graduated from Purdue University (1938) with a degree in mechanical engineering. He joined the Army Air Corps in 1939, becoming a fighter pilot. In World War 11, Emrick served successively in the United States in bomber units, first in training, then in planning. In June 1944 he went to China, joining the B-29 units of the Twentieth Air Force. When General LeMay left China for the Marianas, Colonel Emrick accompanied him, becoming in a few weeks the chief maintenance officer for the XXI Bomber Command. He served with LeMay for the duration of the war. In the postwar Air Force, Emrick also worked with General LeMay in 1946-47 in developing requirements for the B-52 long-range bomber. Later in the 1950s Emrick served as the Strategic Air Command’s Inspector General and Director of Plans. 58  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 71 --- WORLD WAR 11: THE PACIFIC Kohn: You stood down for six weeks for the lack of incendiary bombs? Burchinal: Well, we kept on with daylight bombing using high explosive bombs. LeMay: In six weeks the Navy found some ships and we got incendiary bombs again, but we never caught up from then until the end of the war. We would persuade the Marines, who, were supposed to be resting to get up at four o’clock in the morning and haul bombs for us until breakfast time. Then they would go off on their mission, or we would get the Seabees to do it. We hauled bombs from the ships to the hardstands and skipped the bomb dumps from then on until the end of the war. Our whole goal was to try to end the war before the invasion. We were not going to be a