ces. The designation of heavy bomber was reserved for the B-17, E24, and B-29 bombers, which were four-engine, long-range, strategic bombers. See Swanborough and Bowers, US. Milifary Aircmfr Since 1909, 7483, 84-90, 218-220, 230-236. 31  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 42 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE LeMaiy: I don’t think we had to make any change in tactics in England; there weren’t any tactics there when we started, because there wasn’t anybody there who knew anything about it. There wasn’t even a wing headquarters that could write a five-paragraph field order. That’s one thing I did learn down at the Tactical School: how to write a field order. I had to go up there and tell them about the five-paragraph field order so we could get some sense out of this ten feet of teletype paper that came down with the mission for the next day. They didn’t even know those basics, much less anything about tactim. Everybody was learning the business from the ground up. Johnsion: The expansion was so great that it was almost impossible to imagine that we were over there with groups already fighting. Kohn:: So you went out and tried whatever you would think might work, and when you came back, you would assess it and make whatever changes were necessary to get the bombs on the target? Johnson: That’s an overstatement, I think. We had a pretty good idea that things were going to work unless you hit too much opposition. Burchinal: But you started and sort of fought your way into the railroad yards at Lille and St. Omer; the ones that were just across the Channel. The initial operations were just across the Channel, really.” LeMrty: That’s right. *’ The first mission of Eighth Air Force was flown on July 4, 1942, from England across the channel to strike at German airfields in Holland. For the remainder of the year, American B-17 and B-24 missions to the continent were characterized by small numbers, short distances, and limited damage to the enemy. The bombing mission to Lille,