ere unbelievable. I know that I was fortunate enough to receive the Medal of Honor for fifteen minutes of fighting, over Ploesti, and they fought for about five hours over Schweinfurt. I don’t remember anyone getting a Medal of Honor out of that. I think I would rather do five Ploesti raids than one Schweinfurt.8 Burchinal: I think a major reason why the Royal Air Force went at night was because they could keep their losses down to acceptable levels by operating in the dark. LeMay: The British drifted into that. They started out in daytime, but they didn’t have the proper equipment. The Wellington bomber, for instance, had .30-caliber guns and it wasn’t as well defended as our B-17~.~ Their loss rate rose so high that they were forced into night bombing. Then they concentrated on night bombing and built their equipment for it, whereas we started out bombing in daylight with better equipment for the purpose.” But we didn’t have the fighters we needed built yet. For a brief account of Johnson’s actions in the Ploesti, Rumania, raid, see Introduction, p 9. Three histories of the raid are James Dugan and Carol Stewart, Ploesti (New York, 1962); Leon Wolff, Low Level Mission (New York, 1957); and Leroy W. Newby, Target Ploesti: View From the Bombsight (Novato, Calif., 1983). Wellington medium-range bombers flew in the RAF‘s first strike against Germany, hitting Wilhelmshaven on September 4, 1939. The Wellingtons, first produced by Vickers in 1936, had a maximum speed of 255 mph at 14,000 feet and a range of 1,325 miles. Early in the war these RAF medium bombers were armed with six .30-caliber machineguns-two in the nose and four in the tail turret. This defensive armament did not afford protection from above, below, or either side. On early missions to the continent, German fighters caused considerable losses. By contrast, the El7 possessed the heaviest armament of any Allied bomber early in the war. The B-17 had eight .50-caliber machineguns mounted in the nose, tail, t