d ever get out. That was what was troubling me all the time, because we knew we were going to be under control, as we were in Korea. Kohn: What do you mean by “you knew you would be under control,” General Johnson? Johnson: I meant that we would be limited as to what military actions we could take. Kohn: So you believed that, from the beginning, we would never be able to work our will? Johnson: I couldn’t see how we could get out of there without leaving another division or two there the rest of my life. Kohn: Did you think from the beginning that we would not be permitted to wage a strategic campaign against North Vietnam as we had done in World War II? Johnson: We were very limited in Korea, so I believed the civilians would impose the same limitations and the same problem. Burchinal: Curt, was there ever a time during Vietnam when the recommen- dation was made that we go up and burn down North Vietnam? LeMay: Yes. When we finally got that target list through the Joint Chiefs. Burchinak Because that would have ended the war real quick, just like it did in Japan. LeMay: We could have ended it in any ten-day period you wanted to, but they never would bomb the target list we had. Burchinal: We could have dropped circulars like we did in Japan and said, “Get out because this town won’t be here tomorrow.” Kohn: Do you all think that what we did in the Southeast Asia war was at all a strategic air campaign, as you learned to wage strategic air war in your military careers? (1960-62), he went to Europe, becoming the Supreme Allied Commander, Europe. In July 1969 General Lemnitzer retired, having served the nation as a soldier for 49 years. 125  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 138 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE LeMay: Definitely not. It wasn’t until the last two weeks of the war that we even approached it. When we turned the B-52s loose up north-that started what would have been a strategic campaign, and it would have been completely over in a few more days if we ha