Hawaii, but we could not get a clearance straight to Washington. We were only cleared through San Francisco. We tried to get a radio clearance from San Francisco, but we ran out of radio range before we could get it. We never were cleared. When we showed up at the Washington National Airport, they said, “We don’t have any record of you. Where did you take off from?” I said, “Honolulu.” They said, “Honolulu!” Colonels John B. Montgomery, James D. Garcia, and Stanley Emrick were, respectively, General LeMay’s chief deputies for operations, intelligence, and plans for the XXI Bomber Command, Twentieth Air Force. For Montgomery and .Emrick see previous notes. Colonel Garcia was a graduate of the US. Military Academy (1939) who entered the Army Air Corps in 1940. He rose from second lieutenant to colonel in less than four years. 64  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 77 --- WORLD WAR 11: THE PACIFIC We briefed the Joint Chiefs of Staff; of course Arnold wasn’t there. We did not get a very good reception. As a matter of fact, General Marshall slept through most of the briefing. I can’t blame him; he was probably worn down to a nub. The decision was made to invade. Here was a crazy flyboy coming in saying the war could be ended without invasion. We didn’t make much of an imprint. So we went back to the Marianas and did it anyway.62 Burchinal: After that trip we made a change: from there on, we were going to fly max effort, logistically. We were going to burn the crews out. To hell with crew rotation, we were going to burn them out because we thought we could end the war. The crew replacement program wasn’t going to provide crews fast enough to replace crews which would complete the number of missions required to return home. That’s when the bombs came off the ships onto the hardstands and never got to the bomb dump. It was just max effort from there on out to knock the Japanese out of the war. Night and day. Kohn: Did you feel under pressure from Washington, that G