the winter of 194849 to reshape the command, fitting together the people, aircraft, organization, training, tactics, and plans. As in the Pacific, LeMay was the driving force. Immediately, they changed training of air crews by instituting a lead crew school for elite bomb crews. Operational procedures were standardized by issuing new SAC manuals and checklists for operations, maintenance, supply, and support personnel. New, rigid unit rating systems pinpointed safety and held commanders accountable for aircraft accidents. Detailed, specific operational war plans were developed and tested in demanding operational training exercises. Gradually but perceptibly, a new combat attitude emerged at SAC; it was the product of the Cold War, LeMay, and the professional airmen reshaping the command. When North Korea invaded South Korea in June 1950, President Truman and American military leaders believed that the invasion was a Soviet and Chinese Communist maneuver in the opening campaign of another global war. It was not. Yet it propelled the United States into the Korean War and, equally significant, into a massive rearmament program. The Strategic Air Command, as the nation’s principal long-range retaliatory force, benefitted directly. It grew from 71,490 people and 868 aircraft in January 1950 to 170,892 people and 1,830 aircraft in December 1953. After the war ended in 1953, the expansion continued. President Eisenhower established a defense program that relied more on strategic air forces for deterrence and less on conventional ground and sea forces for projecting power overseas. The Air Force and SAC were the major beneficiaries as SAC modernized its bomber fleet, replacing propeller-driven B-29s and B-36s 6  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 16 --- INTRODUCTION with new, all-jet B-47s, B-52s, and B-58s. SAC grew to 224,014 people and 2,711 aircraft by 1957, the year LeMay left the command to become Vice Chief of Staff, USAF. His legacy to SAC was the command it