We just sat there with the strength. As a matter of fact, we lost because we didn’t threaten to use it when it might have brought advantages to the country. Catton: I think we all know, and it might be redundant, but it ought to be said: When you talk about massive retaliation, you are talking, as General LeMay expresses it, about “real strength.” The concept of strength was absolutely proved, and dramatically, during the Cuban Missile Crisis, when we had absolute ~uperiority.’~’ Khrushchev was looking down the largest ‘”The Cuban Missile Crisis began in mid-October 1962 when President Kennedy announced that the United States had discovered through aerial reconnaissance the presence of Soviet intermediate-range ballistic missiles and jet bombers in Cuba. From October 16 to 28, the United States and the Soviet Union were locked in a nuclear confrontation that was resolved only through intense military pressure and diplomatic negotiations. From the outset, the United States insisted that all offensive strategic weapons be withdrawn from Cuba and that the missile sites be dismantled. To convey this position, President Kennedy negotiated directly with Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev. Reinforcing this diplomacy, the United States increased its military preparations for war against Cuba, and if necessary, against the Soviet Union. All U.S. military forces throughout the world went to a higher stage of military alert. In 1961, there were five stages of alert (Defense Condition 1 through 5). Most U.S. forces in the crisis went to Defense Condition 3; SAC went to Defense Condition 2. As the crisis deepened, U.S. naval forces in the Atlantic imposed a blockade, or quarantine, on Cuba by sending 90 ships and flying 9,000 naval air sorties over the Soviet ships approaching the island nation. The Strategic Air Command went on continuous airborne alert with 57 B52s and 61 tankers in the air around the clock. SAC‘S ICBM force, 90 Atlases and 46 Titans, were brought to a higher st