er the Senior Statesmen Conference. Let us start with the 193'0s and follow the historical development of the strategic air forces and the Air Force experience with strategic air warfare. My first question concerns the extent to which we were prepared for the strategic bombing campaign in World War 11. Apparently, the Army Air Corps changed from a tactical to a strategic air force in the 1930s. Do you have any sense, General Johnson or General LeMay, when and why this occurred, and how the transformation into a strategic air force occurred? LeMay: Well, I don't think it happened until the 1940s. At the end of World War I we had realized the potential of bombardment. But we didn't have any bombers, per se; our first bombers were DH-~s, two-seater airplanes that had bombs hung on the wings.' You couldn't carry any load or really have much chance of doing too much damage, but you could see the potential. In the ' In World 'War I U.S. Army Air Service leaders selected the British-designed de Havilland 4 (DH4) as its !standard combat aircraft. After the war, they continued using the DH-4, while revising its performance characteristics with newer models. In 1923-24 Boeing manufactured the DH-QM, which had an improved, welded steel-tube fuselage along with the reliable Liberty engine. This model was in service until the early 1930s. It had a 1,288-pound bomb capacity. See F. Gordon Swainborough and Peter M. Bowers, United States Military Aircraft Since I909 (London, 1963), 196-203. 19  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 29 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE 1930s that potential was realized to some extent. We finally built some bombers such as the B-1s and -2s, or bigger biplanes, that would carry heavier loads.’ But they were slow, clumsy, ninety-mile-an-hour things. I think the big push came when we got the first monoplane, which gave us a tremendous leap forward in performance. As a matter of fact, at the beginning of the decade we had bombers that would go faster than f