wing the appropriate air tactics, bombing patterns, rescue techniques, communication procedures, and the coordination routines established with Allied naval forces. Like other Army Air Forces airmen who fought in the war, Catton learned the art of piecing together an air campaign by working under pressure as an operational staff officer. Those experiences transformed him from a citizen-airman who had become a top-rated bomber pilot into a professional career officer. When the war ended, a future in the postwar air force seemed a certainty to the twenty-five-year-old lieutenant colonel. The first twelve months after the war confirmed that conclusion. Following a brief encounter with notoriety as an actor in a documentary film on the strategic air war against Japan, Catton became in January 1946, Director of Tactics, 444th Bomb Group, Tucson, Arizona. Barely a month into that job he and his B-29 crew were selected as a lead crew in Air Task Group 1.5, a special composite AAF unit then preparing for atomic weapons tests in the Pacific. Designated Operation CROSSROADS, these 1946 tests involved some 42,000 Army and Navy people and measured the effects of atomic weapons on naval warfare. Seventy-three captured Japanese and German vessels were anchored at Bikini Atoll in the Pacific where two atomic bombs were detonated on July 1 and 25, 1946. Catton and his crew flew their B-29 over the bomb sites and recorded the weapons’ effects. This direct experience with atomic weapons, when coupled with his time working with General LeMay in the Pacific war, placed Catton in a very small cadre of air officers who were both knowledgeable and experienced enough to build the nation’s incipient atomic air force. In March 1946, the Strategic Air Command was established; in August, following the CROSSROADS tests, Catton was selected to command SAC‘S 65th Bomb Squadron (B-29s). One year later he went back to the Pacific, leading Task Unit 741 in Air Task Group 7, which was another composi