n Missile Crisis confirms part of what Douhet and others were saying in the 1920s: strategic air power can decide the great issues of peace and war. Burchinal: It was a unique situation that very rarely occurs. We had such total superiority at that time that there was no question, no contest. As the The “tank” is the meeting room for the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Customarily, the chairman, the vice chairman (added in 1987), and the service chiefs-Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps-meet on a regular basis. During periods of crises, meetings in the “tank” are often continuous. See Lawrence J. Korb, The Joint Chiefs of StafJ The First Twenty-Five Years (Bloomington, Ind., 1976), 21-25. 118  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 131 --- WAR IN SOUTHEAST ASIA Russians built up their capacity during the 1960s and into the early 1970s, that situation no longer obtained. It has since always worried me that publications about the Cuban Missile Crisis all claim that we were so close to nuclear war; ninety-nine percent of the people who write about it don’t understand the truth. Kohn: Why do you say that, General Burchinal? Burchinal: Because the Russians were so thoroughly stood down, and we knew it. They didn’t make any move. They did not increase their alert; they did not increase any flights, or their air defense posture. They didn’t do a thing, they froze in place. We were never further from nuclear war than at the time of Cuba, never further. Kohn: In reading some of the literature on the Cuban Missile Crisis, one gets the impression that the civilian leadership of the country was so horrified by the prospect of war in any shape or form that they were really making every effort to draw back at the first opportunity. That’s my sense of it, but that’s only from the literature. All of you were there and knew the political leadership; you worked with them. Johnson: They were very good at putting out brave words, but they didn’t do a bloody thing to back them up except