ht my wife had “gotten the word” ahead of me, but she had won it at bingo the night before, so it was all right. LeMay: When I came back from Europe in 1948, I noticed the personnel situation that we have been discussing. When the war ended we were in the process of tearing the Air Force down. When we would disband an outfit, those that wanted out were sent to a processing station that got them out of the service. Those that wanted to stay in were usually ordered to a base somewhere close to their homes. It didn’t make any difference whether the man was a fighter pilot or some other MOS [military occupation specialty]. The whole force was ill-manned. We didn’t have the people we needed, and there were a lot of people we didn’t need and couldn’t use. The same was true of bases. Bombers were stationed at bases that had some other mission prior to the war, but if the base was to be kept, a bomber outfit was put there. Consequently, the warehouse would be full of supplies that pertained to something else, and not the supplies that bombers needed. Then I took a look at the war plan; there was no war plan. Kohn: Wasn’t that one of the first questions that you asked General Catton on your first day as SAC Commander? 84 Maj. Gen. Johnson went to England to command the Third Air Division in August 1948. General LeMay was then commanding U.S. Air Forces Europe, and the Berlin Airlift had been underway for eight weeks. The airlift began on June 26, 1948, in response to the Soviet Union’s action which closed all road and rail traffic through the Soviet sector of Germany to the city of Berlin. On June 26 Gen. Lucius D. Clay, U.S. Military Governor, Germany, directed General LeMay to organize and conduct a limited airlift to resupply Berlin. That same day President Harry S Truman affirmed American support for Berlin and ordered the airlift accelerated to a full scale effort immediately. From that day until September 30, 1949, the Berlin Airlift brought 2,323,067 tons of food, fue