and nation. The Strategic Air Command went on continuous airborne alert with 57 B52s and 61 tankers in the air around the clock. SAC‘S ICBM force, 90 Atlases and 46 Titans, were brought to a higher state of alert. The command‘s B-47 fleet was dispersed to preselected civilian and military airfields, thus lessening their vulnerability in any massed enemy attack. For thirteen days President Kennedy and his advisors negotiated with Premier Khrushchev, until on October 27, 1962, the Russian agreed to withdraw the offensive weapons from Cuba. For more than a month afterwards, the U.S. Navy blockaded the island, insuring compliance with the negotiated withdrawal of the offensive missiles and aircraft. See Graham T. Allison, Essence of Decision: Explaining the Cuban Missile Crisis (Boston, 197 1); Scott D. Sagan, “Nuclear Alerts and Crisis Management,” International Security 112  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 125 --- SAC IN THE 1950s AND EARLY 1960s barrel he had ever stared at, once Strategic Air Command did in fact generate its forces.’28 Remember that it all started with proof of the pudding brought back by strategic reconnaissance, continued with strategic surveillance, both of Cuba and the approaches to Cuba by sea. The Russians had no alternative but to step down and do what they were asked to do. End of speech. But I guess the simple point is that even during the Kennedy administration, the value of superiority was so obvious that it couldn’t be missed. Burchinal: It was totally missed by the Kennedy administration, by both the executive leadership and by McNamara. They did not understand what had been created and handed to them, and what it had given them. SAC was about at its peak. We had, not supremacy, but complete nuclear superiority over the Soviets. Fortunately, there was enough panic in Washington when they saw those missiles going in, and it was a new team, of course, with Kennedy and McNamara and company, that they gave only the broadest 9 (Sp