e the fact that we had achieved some success before General LeMay got there, but after General LeMay arrived, we really put our nose to the stone in terms of training, doctrine, and air discipline. It really paid off for the daylight visual missions. LeMay: That was early when we were still following the European pattern. At that rate we could get missions off doing high-altitude bombing, but the weather wasn’t going to let us do the job; we weren’t going to finish the job before the invasion. So we had to do something radical. Kohn: You were focusing on that point; you were trying to defeat Japan specifically by means of strategic air power, and there were no ifs, ands, or buts about it. LeMay: That’s right. Catton: The point I am making is that even though we didn’t have the force size required to do it with day visual bombing, we were good at day visual bombing in that springtime. We were doing a good job under the circumstances. 62  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 75 --- WORLD WAR 11: THE PACIFIC LeMay: If you could get the weather to do it. Catton: Right. Exactly. Burchinal: Didn’t you make a trip back here then to talk to Arnold about holding off the land invasion?58 LeMay: No. Burchinal: Or did you send it through by message? Because we got turned down. Arnold did go to Marshall, but then he backed him when Marshall said, “We are going to have an invasion.”59 This was perhaps in May 1945. LeMay: General Arnold came out to visit us. Remember when he came? Burchinal: That’s right. He came to visit us.6o 58 Gen. Henry H. “Hap” Arnold (18861950). Following graduation from West Point (1908), Arnold decided on a career in military aviation. He learned to fly from the Wright brothers in 1911 and set numerous military aeronautical records. During World War I he served on the War Department General Staff in Washington. In the 1920s and 1930s Arnold remained in the small Army Air Service and Air Corps, rising in rank and holding several significant commands.