ircraft at a fixed point. Once the aircraft’s position was known, the navigator could plan a route to the other known position: the target. In early bombing operations over Europe, the AN/APQ-13 radar was inaccurate and unreliable. The AN/APQ-7 rad,ar was a product of the war, developed at the MIT Lincoln Laboratories specifically for long-range bombing. It was mounted on the aircraft, but with an electromagnetic scanner which allowed a significantly higher degree of resolution. The aircraft’s radar scanned the horizon for prepositioned beacons. Once located or fixed, the radar gave the navigator accurate data on the location of the bomber. Using maps of the target area, the navigator took the information from the radar system and calculated the course to the target. See Arthur Roberts, ed., Radar Beacons (New York, 1947), 14-17. 59  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 72 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE part of Sai~an.~~ He came back shaking his head; he just could not understand how poorly trained the operators were. But he said, yes, he thought most of them could do that. Our first attack on Tokyo was just that; it was a little spit of land sticking out below Tokyo in the Tokyo Bay. Our people flew over it, turned to a compass heading to which they were assigned, flew for so many seconds, then pulled the string. That was our start. I also started a radar school to train our people better. As we got better people, we put them up in front of the formations. On the first attack I had our better people out front to start with, but as our people became trained and achieved proficiency, we actually destroyed an industrial area on an inland town in the middle of a thunderstorm. With training, radar became an important aid. Thus if you could get your airplanes ready, loaded with bombs, and the crews ready to go, gas and everything, and if the weather was good, we would hit one of the high-priority visual targets that we were assigned. If the weather was bad, which it usu