ling air and missile strikes against SAC‘s overseas staging bases. According to this analysis, SAC‘s forces overseas were extremely vulnerable to attack. Partly for this reason, and because of two other factors- reductions in Air Force budgets and the operational feasiblity of using all-jet air-to-air refueling of the bomber forces-the practice of temporarily basing large numbers of strategic forces abroad was reconsidered and in the early 1960s substantially curtailed. In subsequent years, all SAC nuclear forces returned to the United States. See John L. Gaddis, Strategies of Containment (New York, 1982), 89-127; Bruce L.R. Smith, The RAND Corporation (Cambridge, Mass., 1966), 195-240. 88  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 101 --- KOREAN WAR B-29 Superfortresses drop bombs over a target area during the Korean War. LeMay: We had to deploy in order to fight with the airplanes we had in those days. So we developed a plan for it and the equipment for it and practiced it. For instance, we had what we called “flyaway kits” that contained essential spare parts. We kept them up-to-date because as the airplanes aged, the parts in the flyaway kit changed a little bit. Different parts would be needed, different quantities of parts, but we were up-to-date so if we had to go, you just slammed the lids, and went. The boxes were all marked; some went on the bomber, others went with the first transports that came in to move the ground echelon over. Practicing that, we could deploy an outfit very rapidly. As a matter of fact, I deployed an outfit once so quickly that the crews and the people in the air echelon didn’t even go home to pack a bag. Later on we ironed it out so we could plan our deployments and tell our people, “You are going over on a deployment on such-and-such a date. You are going to come back on such-and-such a date, and you can take some leave along in this period and have some time with your family.” It took a little doing because the Air Staff was shumi