t is the Russians knew how to jam. They jammed anything they wanted to jam, but they didn’t dare move that far. I knew they weren’t serious unless and until they jammed that beacon. Korean War Kohn: Did the Korean War have an impact on SAC? Perhaps we did not really mount a strategic campaign in Korea in the same manner we waged strategic warfare in World War 11. You controlled all the strategic airplanes, General LeMay, at that time. LeMay: Not when they left and went to Korea.92 92 Nine days into the Korean War, Gen. Hoyt Vandenberg, Chief of Staff, USAF, directed the movement of two medium bomb groups (22d and 92d) from the United States to Japan. Vandenberg thought that these two SAC E29 units would be effective in Korea in flying air interdiction missions against the enemy’s long supply lines, which stretched the length of the peninsula into South Korea. Simultaneously, General Vandenberg directed Lt. Gen. George E. Stratemeyer, Commander of the Far East Air Forces, to organize and establish a Far East Air Forces Bomber Command (Provisional). To that command he assigned the two SAC B-29 units, plus the 19th Bomb Group (E29s), already in the Pacific Theater. To command, General Vandenberg selected Maj. Gen. Emmett “Rosie” O’Donnell, Jr., then a SAC numbered air force commander. In late 1950 the 22d and 92d Bomb Groups returned to the United States. Two other SAC bomb groups, the 98th and 307th, which had gone to Korea in August, remained with the Far East Air Forces Bomber Command. Throughout the war, SAC B-29 aircraft and crews were rotated to the theater and assigned to the Far East Bomber Command. See Robert F. Futrell, The United States Air Force in Korea, 1950-1953 (New York, 1961; rev. ed., Washington, 1983), 46, 71. 86  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 99 --- KOREAN WAR Catton: There was one B-29 outfit on Okinawa, the 19th, that belonged to the Far East Air Forces. It did not belong to General LeMay. He owned the rest until the war started. LeM