ere storm at sea, Mitchell chastised the Navy an’d War Department for “incompetency, criminal negligence, and an almost treasonable administration of national defense. . . .” For these assertions he was court-martialed and convicted of insubordination in a sensational trial. He resigned from the Army in February 1926. Until his death in 1936, Mitchell continued publicizing his airpower concepts in books and articles, including Winged Defense (New York, 1925), and Skyways. A Book on Modern Aeronautics (New York, 1930). For an excellent biography, see Alfred F. Hurley, Bilh Mitchell: Crusader For Airpower, 2d ed. (Bloomington, Ind., 1975). 28  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 39 --- WORLD WAR I1 PLANNING the great value of air power would be the strategic role if you had the airplanes and the capabilities. Of course, you had to fight the Army, and . . . Burchinal: It wasn’t that well formulated. Johnson: We knew if we had airplanes that could go someplace, we could take them there and hopefully bring them back. I think that was understood by all of us, and that the airplanes could bomb. Burchinal: This was theory, but there was a minimum of doctrine, really. Doctrine was not formulated, not thought through, not put down. It was just there. LeMay: I got that short course at the Tactical School, too, and I found that most of it was 180 degrees off from the facts of life out where the lead was flying around. For instance, we fought an air battle in an exercise with the ground troops at Gettysburg. I remember another problem we had off Florida. The only thing we had was a group of fighters to attack an invading force. More than half of us expended the fighters on that attack, which kind of surprised the instructors down there because we had to make the attack beyond the range of the fighters and we sent them out there knowing they weren’t coming back. I think we all had the general idea of what had to be done, but we didn’t have the tools. Air Corps Tactical Sch