ntive strike on the Soviet Union. These remarks, along with similar ones by Secretary of the Navy Francis P. Matthews, alarmed President Truman and his advisors who were then in the midst of defining, conducting, and limiting America’s participation in the Korean War. When Truman addressed the nation on radio on September 1, 1950, he declared explicitly that the United States “did not believe in aggressive or preventive war.” The next day, Gen. Hoyt S. Vandenberg, Chief of Staff, USAF, relieved General Anderson of his position and declared that the Air Force’s primary mission was “prevention of war.” Shortly thereafter, General Anderson retired. New York Times, September 2, 1950, pp 1,4,8. ’’ As a result of the disastrous Dayton exercise, General LeMay asked General Mont- gomery, SAC‘S Director of Operations, to develop detailed operational war plans that would assign specific targets to each SAC bomb crew and aircraft. That war plan, SAC Emergency War Plan 149, became the basis for all SAC training, force structure, and to a degree, future force requirements. The “Pegasus” briefing by General Montgomery was at the Air War College in 1949. This briefing was one of many that SAC leaders gave in the late 1940s and early 1950s in their attempt to explain how they intended to wage strategic air warfare. See Borowski, Hollow Threat, 167-168, 170-185; David Alan Rosenberg, “American Atomic Strategy and the Hydrogen Bomb,” Journal of American History 66 (1979): 62-87. 83  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 96 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE Johnson: I remember that, but I disagree to this extent. I think all of us understood the mission, that SAC certainly had priority over everything in all of our minds. I had served enough places and positions in those years to see that. SAC had the mission, really, to deter. We didn’t want war; we wanted to deter war, and the atomic force was going to deter the war. LeMay: Let me tell you what I was trying to do. I remembered the horr