obody knew how to shoot well enough to train our people. We were just terrible. We raised such a fuss about it over in England in 1942 that the commanders at the six or seven AAF gunnery schools were sent over to see what all the fuss was about. We sent all of them out on a combat mission, and on their first mission four of them got shot down. That emphasized our point. Burchinal: The equipment was relatively primitive, too. You stood at the open waist of a B-17 at 24,000 feet, freezing, with an oxygen mask and all the heavy winter equipment on-just an open bay-with no computing sights or anything like that. Johnson: Also, the pressure was on the training commands to get us crews; people were sent over who weren’t trained. I can’t say positively, and I am not sure I should say it at all, but I talked to a number of crews that had never been to altitude, really, and yet they came through all checked off as having completed training. LeMay: Some had never been in an airplane. The gunners I got came supposedly from a gunnery school, but they had never been in an airplane. They had used a flexible gun, mounted on a truck, that they would run up in front of a dirt bank out on the prairie someplace and shoot into the bank. I got my gunners one ride in an airplane, shooting at the desert as you ran across at low altitude. That was it; then we went into combat.12 Burchinal: I was at the training end at that point back in the United States and 1 remember the ninety-day wonders. We took those kids out of single- engine flying school, and ninety days later, we sent them in a four-engine bomber over to England, thinking they were going to be able to fly in combat. There were three stages of thirty days each and “on your way.” Before that you had to have 3,000 hours and fifteen years of experience as a pilot before you could fly the B-17. LeMay: The pilots that I got weren’t even ninety-day wonders. They came right from flying school and single-engine airplanes, and they had nev