AC had the mission, really, to deter. We didn’t want war; we wanted to deter war, and the atomic force was going to deter the war. LeMay: Let me tell you what I was trying to do. I remembered the horrible experience that we all had during the war, of going to war with nothing, with no training and having to start from scratch. With the atomic weapon, we could not afford this kind of unpreparedness again. My goal was to build a force that was so professional, so strong, so powerful that we would not have to fight. In other words, we had to build this deterrent force. And it had to be good. So I got guys who knew something about doing this, and we got busy and did it. Kohn: Was there a sense in 1948 and 1949, when you first took over, that war was imminent? What with the Berlin Crisis, the Czechoslovakian coup, the deterioriating situation in China. . . .88 LeMay: No. There may have been that sense back here in Washington, but to my mind there was only a possibility of war. I was sitting at Wiesbaden as USAFE Commander in 1948, an hour-and-a-half drive from the Russian border, and not a single doughfoot between me and the border. I remembered a couple of guys called Kimmel and Short-at Pearl Harbor.89 So I got busy ** From 1947 through 1949 a rapid series of international crises worsened the relationship between the Soviet Union and Western nations. In 1947 Communist guerrillas in Greece and Turkey were challenging existing national governments in civil wars. Poland and Hungary had fallen firmly under Soviet influence. In China, Communist armies led by Mao Zedong were challenging the Nationalist government. In 1948 the government of Czechoslovakia was taken over by Communists who quickly adopted a Soviet-style constitution. North Korea closed its borders to United Nations observers and established firm economic and diplomatic ties with the Soviet Union. Then in June 1948, the Soviets closed all surface travel to Berlin and the Western nations responded with the Berlin