stituted the United States’ Joint Chiefs of Staff during the war. 52  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 65 --- WORLD WAR 11: THE PACIFIC Kohn: What was different when you got over to the Pacific? How was it different from the European environment? Did you talk about that down in the wings? You had not been in Europe, General Catton. Catton: I was not in Europe, no. Kohn: General Burchinal, you were in Europe. Burchinal: I was over there in late 1942, but I was not on the bombing side. LeMay: The main difference, I think, was that we could fool the Japanese once in a while with diversions and such, but we never fooled the Germans. I think the Geimans had a better radar net and a better defense setup, and we had virtually trained them for a period of time with our piddling raids early in the war. The Japanese didn’t have that training. I remember “Monty” Montgomery., my ops officer, telling me this story (he went with the Strategic Bombing Survey into Japan after the The Survey team went into the central fighter control setup there, and Monty asked the question, “What happens here now when the radar sees the B-29s coming?” The answer was, “All lights light; all bells ring.”47 Kohn: Did you change any of your methods? Burchinal: There were two different parts to the campaign. The first were the early missions from the China-Burma-India theater. Then there were the early ones from the Marianas. From the Marianas we didn’t do things very 46 Maj. Gen. John B. Montgomery (1911-87) was commissioned in the Army Air Corps in February 1936. A bomber pilot prior to the war, he became an operational planner when the war began. Working at Headquarters, Army Air Forces, Montgomery assisted in planning the strategic bombing campaign in Europe as a staff officer in the Office of the Chief of Bombardment. Late in 1944, he went to the Marianas with the XXI Bomber Command. That command was one of the two bomber commands of the Twentieth Air Force, the AAF‘s long- range strateg