ile Mrs. Burchinal and daughter Wendy look on. 98  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 111 --- SAC IN THE 1950s AND EARLY 1960s Brig. Gen. Catton stands before a I . B-52 at Homestead Air Force Base, h%;.,T;i Florida, on occasion of his flying his 10,000th hour. Courtesy Jack J Catton S-! : knew, perhaps not as many, but every job he held he performed so well that everyone enjoyed working for him. Burchinal: He wrote the book as he went along. Johnson: I don’t want to praise him because he might get big-headed. LeMay: I picked people out that could do the job, and the person knew the job he had to do. Then I got out of his way and let him do it. He either did it, or he didn’t. If he did it, fine; if he didn’t, I got somebody else. Catton: From the early 1950s the wing commander was required personally to brief the numbered air force commander every time the wing received a change to the war order. Wing commanders personally would brief their numbered air force commander on his war plan. The wing commander knew that war plan. He knew his targets. He knew every detail about the war plan because he personally had to brief his boss, and of course, the numbered air force would brief the commander. So we were involved. Burchinak You lived with your crews and the war plan all the time. You were always being briefed by your crews on their particular target. 99  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 112 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE Catton: They briefed you, the wing commander, and then you briefed the numbered air force commander. LeMay: Along that line, during the war, it was standard thinking in the combat units that the next higher echelon of command didn't know what the hell they were doing. In many cases they had a point. In our war plan in SAC, I would bring somebody in from the unit who participated in the war plan so that a wing knew that somebody from its outfit had participated in the war plan. Thus people in the wings had more confidence in the plan, that