rature. All of you were there and knew the political leadership; you worked with them. Johnson: They were very good at putting out brave words, but they didn’t do a bloody thing to back them up except what, inadvertently, we did. LeMay: That was the mood prevalent with top civilian leadership; you are quite correct. The War In Southeast Asia Kohn: At this time and in the following two years, there must have been some talk of Southeast Asia. Was there any planning going on in 1962, 1963, or 1964 that you remember, or any discussion about how one would use air power in a war like the one we would be facing in Southeast Asia? LeMay: You mean before we moved into Vietnam at all? Kohn: Yes, when we were still in the advisory role, slowly building up our advisors during the Kennedy years, the FARM GATE operations. We were talking then also about some herbicide operations, but well before we really 119  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 132 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE began to use our air power and to put American units into South Vietnam- before 1965.’36 Burchinal: We were selling airplanes, ones they could fly, to the Vietnamese, giving them the air capability because we recognized they were going to have to have air capability if they were going to succeed. Catton: David, don’t you remember-you were in the Pentagon a lot earlier than I, and of course, General LeMay was there all of this time-but after Cuba, and in the beginnings of what became the Southeast Asia conflict, I can remember that the administration, particularly McNamara, was vociferous against providing any American-operated military force in the theater, and particularly air. Burchinal: Oh, yes. That’s what I said. We were using them-the Vietnam- ese-selling them the airplanes and training them to fly them. Our involvement was not overtly in combat at that point, only with our Military Assistance Advisory Group.13’ Until 1961, the United States had a small military advisory group of less than 700 me