Peninsula is a small jut of land near the Bering Sea. It is the most eastern part of the Soviet Union, and the United States flew regular reconnaissance flights along the Pacific rim observing activities on the peninsula. This U-2 incident occurred on Saturday, October 27, 1962, when a SAC reconnaissance aircraft inadvertently flew over Soviet territory. Although this U-2 incident was unrelated to the Cuban Missile Crisis, the perception that there was a linkage on the part of the Soviets was possible. The Soviets did not react militarily to the SAC U-2 aircraft flying over Chukotski, although Premier Khrushchev did write President Kennedy on October 28th expressing his displeasure and noting that at a key moment in the crisis the “intruding American plane could be easily taken for a nuclear bomber.” Kennedy responded and explained the accidental and coincidental nature of the Pacific U-2 episode, and pledged to avoid a recurrence in the future. See Sagan, “Nuclear Alerts and Crisis Management,” International Securiy 9 (Spring 1985): 118-120; Roger Hilsman, To Move A Nation (Garden City, N.Y., 1967), 221. 117  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 130 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE :yH! . .. , .. . Gen. Curtis LeMay presents Distinguished Service Med- al to Lt. Gen. David A. Burchinal. tank,’35 and McNamara was with the JCS. He left us in a great state of agitation to go get the President on the phone to apologize to the Russians. The JCS said, “No. Tell them, don’t touch that thing, or they’ve had it.” The Russians knew what was going on anyway, because our controllers in Alaska contacted the aircraft on the radio, gave him his correct course, and got him back out of there. There was no reaction on the Soviets’ part, because they were stood down. Kohn: Perhaps the Cuban Missile Crisis confirms part of what Douhet and others were saying in the 1920s: strategic air power can decide the great issues of peace and war. Burchinal: It was a unique situation that very rare