mbing conditions. The airfields didn’t show up on the radar scopes, so I would have to have visual bombing conditions. If the weather was visual, I would hit those airdromes. If the weather was not visual, I would support him by hitting strategic targets in the area. We had bad weather. He never got any air attacks from us. 44 On July 1, 1945, the final naval campaign against Japan began. Adm. William F. Halsey and the Third Fleet sailed from Leyte Gulf in the Philippines with the objective of attacking the enemy’s home islands, destroying the remnants of Japan’s navy, merchant marine, and air forces, and crippling the nation’s industrial and communications networks. Starting on July loth, Halsey’s Third Fleet sailed up and down the length of Japan, attacking at will. At this time General LeMay was commanding the XXI Bomber Command and was sending out as many as 500 B-29s, day and night, against Japanese cities and factories. Opposition was minimal. See Morison, Victory in the Pacific 1945, 298-336; Craven and Cate, AAF in WWII, V, 654-655. 45 At this time the chain of command in the Central Pacific Theater ran upward from Fleet Admiral William F. Halsey, Commander of the Third Fleet, to Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, Commander, Pacific Ocean Areas, to Admiral Ernest King, Chief of Naval Operations and Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Fleet. As noted earlier, Maj. Gen. LeMay’s command chain was different; he reported to General Arnold who was both the Commander of Twentieth Air Force and Commanding General, Army Air Forces. General George C. Marshall was the Chief of Staff, U.S. Army. The three ranking officers for sea, air, and land forces-Admiral King, General Arnold, and General Marshall-together with President Roosevelt’s personal represen- tative, Admiral William D. Leahy, constituted the United States’ Joint Chiefs of Staff during the war. 52  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 65 --- WORLD WAR 11: THE PACIFIC Kohn: What was different when you got over to the Paci