r Forces. Just ten months later he left the Pacific for Europe, assuming command of U.S. Air Forces, Europe. In September 1975, he retired from active duty. For some of Vogt’s observations on the air war, see Richard H. Kohn and Joseph P. Harahan, eds., Air Interdiction in World War IA Korea, and Vietnam: An Interview with Gen. Earle E. Partridge, Gen. Jacob E. Smart, and Gen. John W. Vogt, Jr. (Washington, 1986), 5686. 127  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 140 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE Ki~singer'~~ and the North Vietnamese reached their truce agreement in Paris we had, in effect, won the war. The North Vietnamese had had enough. We were going to move our air force that was in Vietnam back to Thailand, and keep our total air capability in place. The minute we didn't, of course, North Vietnam moved right in and took over. And we didn't have the will to follow through on the plan which Kissinger had negotiated. Catton: Actually the Congress prevented it, David. 150 Burchinal: Yes, that's right. There was no will left anywhere in the government to continue a major military force in that theater. Catton: Dick, let me back up one. General LeMay, how would you characterize the similarity between Linebacker I1 and the plan that we took to the government, took to the Secretary of Defense and the White House, back in 1964-65?15' LeMay: The first plan we had was 90 strategic targets, and I don't know what the target objective was in Linebacker 11. Catton: The targets, of course, would be a little bit different in detail, but the philosophy, the concept of the operation, to my mind was very similar. LeMay: In that we stopped bombing jungles and started getting more important targets. 149 Henry A. Kissinger (1923- ) was the Assistant to the President for National Security during the Nixon administration. As such, he was the principal negotiator with the North Vietnamese in Paris from 1969 to 1973. For an account of the negotiations see Kissinger, White House Years, 71