88, 617-618. 63 Maj. Gen. Norstad was General Arnold’s Chief of Staff for the Twentieth Air Force. Arnold actually commanded this specialized air force from Washington, but because of his many obligations in leading the Army Air Forces and in serving on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Norstad became his principal agent at Headquarters AAF in planning and overseeing the combat operations of the Twentieth in the Marianas. Schaffer, Wings of Judgment, 121-127, 128-142. 65  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 78 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE know Arnold very well. I had only met him once. Although he was commanding March Field when I was a flying cadet, I had never met him. I only met him on the way back from England to go to the Pacific. Kohn: Did he give you any specific instructions then? LeMay: No. And I never felt that they were looking over my shoulder. I knew what was expected of me and why I was there. I had to produce some results. Kohn: Did you attempt to define those results, General LeMay? Did you have anything specific in mind? LeMay: Once we successfully attacked Tokyo, it became apparent that if we trained the radar operators properly, then we could get the maximum hours and sorties out of our force, for use against the industrial areas. Then we would really get something done. That is what we were concentrating on. I was still following my instructions from Washington on the priority of targets. If we were sure of the weather, we would do a visual attack on priority targets. If we weren't sure of the weather, we would go after the industrial areas. Burchinal: Attacking at low altitude also let us put in ten tons, 20,000 pounds, of bombs in the bomb bay. Catton: The airplanes operated magnificently. We carried a maximum load of bombs, our losses went way down, and our effectiveness went way up. p Participating in discussions following Germany's surrender, from left to right, are Maj. Gen. Lauris Norstad, Gen. Henry H. Arnold, and Gen. George C. Marshall. 66