ds, which contained all of the AAF’s B-29 combat forces. These subordinate bomber commands were to be based in the Pacific-in China and the Mariana Islands-but they reported directly to Headquarters, Twentieth Air Force, located in Washington D.C. General Arnold served as commander of the Twentieth Air Force, and he reported directly to the Joint Chiefs of Staff on operational matters. The reason for this unusual arrangement was that Arnold wanted to keep direct control of the B-29s, believing that if they came under the control of one of the theater commanders the bombers would be directed away from a strategic campaign against Japan and used instead to support land and naval forces in the approach to the Japanese home islands. Although senior Navy leaders protested, the matter was settled in a joint Army-Navy conference in February 1944, with President Roosevelt concurring later. See Craven and Cate, AAF in WWZZ, IV, 3637; Hansell, The Strategic Air War Against Germany and Japan, 157-160 Ronald H. Spector, Eagle Against the Sun (New York, 1984), 489-494; Grace P. Hayes, The History of the Joint Chiefs of Staffin World War ZZ: The War Against Japan (Washington, 1982), 590-596. Fleet Adm. Chester W. Nimitz (1885-1966) graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy (1905) and became a submariner before World War I. An expert in submarine warfare and commander of a submarine division at age 26, Nimitz rose rapidly in rank and responsibility in the interwar Navy. By 1940 he was Chief of the Bureau of Navigation and following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941, he was made CINCPACFLT (Commander-in-Chief, Pacific Fleet) and commander of all land, sea, and air forces in the Pacific Ocean Area. Headquartered in Honolulu, Hawaii, Admiral Nimitz directed the war against the Japanese in the northern and central Pacific Ocean areas. Admiral Nimitz, as theater commander, marshalled all theater forces for the Okinawa invasion. After the war Nimitz became the Chief of Na