age out of the Mth! Catton: Salina, Kansas? Burchinal: Yes. lo’ From 1953 to 1954 General Burchinal, then a colonel, commanded the 40th Bomb Wing, a B-29 unit stationed at Smoky Hill AFB, Kansas. 96  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 109 --- SAC IN THE 1950s AND EARLY 1960s Kohn: But it was an exciting time. Johnson: It was. Burchinal: Even operating as a sort of replacement center was good. Kohn: You had good people, a strong sense of cohesion, tremendous Clan?'08 Catton: We gained great satisfaction from knowing we had an absolutely vital mission, that we were well led, and that the country was completely dependent on our succeeding in our mission. That feeling permeated down to the wing commander and throughout the crew force. Just as in World War 11, as General Johnson has mentioned, the outfit looked to the commander for leadership. They got it, or he didn't stay very long. Burchinak You had a sense of purpose-that was the whole thing. Kohn: Was it difficult because it was peacetime, or was there no sense of peacetime in SAC . . . LeMay: It was wartime. Catton: Training in SAC was harder than war. It might have been a relief to go to war. Burchinal: To go from the 40th over to the 43d was a real switch for me, from the lowest to one of the highest priority outfits in SAC.'09 We were involved in deployment, because we were on our ninety-day TDYs over to North Africa and England at the time. You are right, it was war. It was a twenty- four-hour, seven-day-a-week job, and you didn't look upon it as anything else. Kohn: Was General LeMay a presence in the whole command? Burchinal: You better believe it Kohn: Would you expand on that? Burchinak Say the name again. . . . I can always remember-at least it was attributed to General LeMay-that he once said, when somebody got fired, Io8 Within the Air Force, SAC was considered to be an elite command. It had a certain spirit, which was depicted, along with the pressures of working under constant nuclear alerts, i