attacked? LeMay: If I were on my own and half the country was destroyed and I could get no orders and so forth, I wasn't going to sit there fat, dumb, and happy and do nothing. Johnson: I wanted the country half-destroyed before you would contemplate this. LeMay: I may not have waited until half the country was destroyed, but I felt I had to do something in case no one else was capable of doing anything. Johnson: If we were under attack-that sort of thing. LeMay: Yes, if we were under attack, and I hadn't received orders for some reason, or any other information. '03 General Montgomery, SAC Director of Operations, stated in an oral history interview that in 194849, if the President had issued an order to launch an attack, SAC'S small, atomic- capable bomb group based at Roswell Field, New Mexico, (509th Composite, E29s) would need five or six days to depart the base, fly to an Atomic Energy Commission storage site, load the bombs, and fly to a forward base before launching air strikes against the enemy. See Borowski, Hollow Threat, 103-104, 110. Gordon Dean, Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, stated that during the Korean War, on April 6, 1951, President Truman authorized the transfer of nine nuclear weapons to the Air Force. This transfer was the first time the military had direct control of nuclear weapons since World War 11. See Roger M. Anders, ed. Forging the Atomic Shield: Excerpts from the Diary of Gordon E. Dean (Chapel Hill, 1987), 137-144. 93  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 106 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE Johnson: In response to their attack? LeMay: I was going to take some action at least to get ready to do something. Lacking orders and lacking the assumption that I was going to get some in the near future, I would take some action on my own. Catton: This business, of course, as you can understand, had progressed from nearly no capability to deliver atomic weapons to the absolute necessity of being able to launch within very brief periods