ew. Mr. John T. Bohn and Mr. J. C. Hopkins of the Strategic Air Command History Office suggested questions and read the final manuscript prior to publication. In the Office of Air Force 2  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 12 --- INTRODUCTION History, Col. John F. Shiner, Mr. Herman Wolk, Dr. Alfred M. Beck, and Dr. Walton S. Moody proposed questions, read and critiqued the edited manuscript, and offered suggestions. Sergeant Glenn B. Reynolds typed the manuscript. Mr. Ray Del Villar of the Air Force Publishing Division designed the graphics. Mrs. Laura H. Dahljelm accomplished the copy editing, photograph selection, and final layout before printing. All photo- graphs appearing throughout the volume, unless otherwise noted, are from the US. Air Force collection, the Department of Defense Still Media Records, and the National Air and Space Museum. The editors wish also to thank Professors David Rosenberg of the Naval War College and Marc Trachtenberg of the University of Pennsylvania for reading the transcript and offering their judgment that the interview if published would be useful to military historians. To all these individuals, the editors express sincerest thanks. General Curtis LeMay’s early life and education reveal the self- discipline, military inclination, and love of flying that characterized his Air Force career. A midwesterner born in Columbus, Ohio, in November 1906, he considered competing for an appointment to West Point, but lacking personal or family acquaintances with Ohio Congressmen he enrolled instead at Ohio State University. His studies and work preoccupied him: taking civil engineering courses, becoming an honor graduate of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC), and working nine hours a night, six days a week, at a local foundry. Appointed a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army Reserves in June 1928, LeMay spent the summer in basic training at Camp Knox, Kentucky, with the 62d Field Artillery Brigade, Field Artillery Reserve. I