farthest thing from my mind, that we would ever have an attack on the United States as long as we had that strength. Burchinal: There were some similarities to World War 11, in that we were not trying to hold cities hostage by means of a terror threat, or anything like that. We were targeting, if push came to shove, what was important militarily and what was important economically to him in supporting his military. So there was that carry-over from the strategic concepts of World War 11. Kohn: When the Kennedy administration took oflice, was there much of a change in the nature of our forces, our strategy, our planning, our 109  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 122 --- STRATEGIC AIR WARFARE capabilities, our targeting? They enunciated a very different policy-flexible respons-but it doesn’t sound like it changed our forces.’23 Burchinal: Let’s look at it this way: (Robert) McNamara was not fond of the Strategic Air Command or its capabilities.’” As a matter of fact, he didn’t approve any substantial improvements or new weapons for SAC in his budgets, except for the SR-71 for reconnai~sance.‘’~ He was the one who sold out the British strategic air forces when he denied them the Skybolt missile, because he wanted to have Britain and France actually stand down their nuclear forces so there would be a bipolar nuclear world.126 He thought that would be much simpler to manage. 123 “Flexible response” was the name the Kennedy administration adopted for its military policy. As articulated by Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara and Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, who was both the Military Representative to the President (1961-62) and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (1962-64), this policy called for the expansion of U.S. ground, naval, and air forces so that they would be capable of fighting wars of various kinds, conventional and nuclear, at different levels of conflict, from low-intensity guerilla wars all the way to general nuclear war. See William W. Kaufman, T