ts, for example, for months before the end.76 Burchinal: Between the aerial mining and the bombing, we tore up the Japanese so much that they couldn’t really move around. They were flat on their tail. They had had it, and they knew it. As Curt said, whom could they find to carry the message, and mediate? Kohn: Apparently a major problem was whether the Japanese government could agree internally to seek peace, the politics inside the Japanese cabinet . . . Burchinal: The A-bomb certainly gave them an excuse to come out of the closet, throw up their hands, and say . . . Kohn: And go over the brink and go to the Emperor. Burchinal: Yes. LeMay: Let me relate an interesting sidelight on ending the war. When I 75 The B-29 aerial mining campaign began in April 1945 and lasted until the Japanese surrender. The B-29s dropped some 12,000 mines on Japanese sea lanes, straits, and harbors. These mining operations, when combined with the impact of the Navy’s submarines and aircraft, virtually paralyzed Japan’s maritime traffic. See Craven and Cate, AAF in WWZI, V, 662-674; Frederick M. Sallagar, “Lessons from an Aerial Mining Campaign,” RAND Report R-1322 PR (Santa Monica, Calif., 1974). 76 The Shimonoseki Straits separated the main Japanese islands of Honshii and Kyiishii. Because the straits were very narrow, at one point only one-fourth of a mile wide, Allied aerial mining, submarines, and naval shelling concentrated there, and forced Japanese commercial and military shipping to refrain from using the straits. In the first month of mining operations, more than fifteen Japanese ships using the straits were sunk or disabled. After March 27, 1945, no large Japanese warships attempted to pass through the Shimonoseki Straits. See Craven and Cate, AAF in WWIZ, V, 671-672. 72  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 85 --- THE LATE 1940s arrived in India, I was under General Stilwell for administration and supplies, so I went to call on him.” He was not in his headquarters; he wa