ned up, the decision was made to move out there. I didn’t make that decision; it was made back in Washington. In my reports I recommended no more B-29s be sent to India because they weren’t getting as much done. Kohn: It was in the Marianas that you changed tactics . . . LeMay: I got over to the Marianas in January 1945. We started off with the standard tactics that had proved successful in Europe. Here again: weather. After we readied the crews, loaded the bombs, and gassed the aircraft, we would sit and wait on the weather. I woke up at the end of about six weeks and realized that we hadn’t got much done; the invasion of Japan was scheduled for the end of the year. “Stan” Emrick, my chief of maintenance, was doing a lot of thinking and planning over there, and he came in and told me one day, thinking about the invasion, that because we had changed our maintenance system, we were capable of flying every airplane and every air crew an average of 120 hours a month.53 We only had to hoop up the supply level a little bit. So I told Nimitz about that, but got the back of the hand: “YOU can’t do this; you only flew 30 hours a month over in England where you had all this industrial support around you; out in the boondocks, how are you going to fly 120?” I said, “Well, we have a new maintenance system and a different setup; we can do it.” We never got to first base with the Navy. I finally got mad and said, “Tell them down there that we are going to do it, and if we run out of supplies, they can tell the Joint Chiefs of Staff: We will go fishing.” We ran out of incendiary bombs, remember, at the end of the five missions when we started the low-altitude stuff, and we didn’t have another one then for about 6 weeks, except, I guess, for one small raid with a few bombs. 52 The B-29s stationed in India and China were relocated to Tinian and Guam Islands in the Marianas in the early spring of 1945 where they joined the E29 forces already based there. The War Department order was