eral David A. Burchinal was born in April 1915. He attended Brown University, graduating with Phi Beta Kappa honors in June 1938. The rise of Hitler’s Germany caused him to consider, like so many men of his generation, national military service. For Burchinal, this sense of patriotism was linked to the pure adventure of flying; in June 1939 he joined the Army Air Corps. A natural pilot, he advanced quickly from student pilot to instructor, then to depot test pilot. He flew everything and at one point in 1941 he was current in, or checked out to fly, twenty-nine different types of aircraft-trainers, fighters, bombers, transports, and experimental planes. Partly because of this profi- ciency, in July 1941, he became pilot and aide to Brig. Gen. Henry J. F. Miller, Commander, Air Technical Service Command, the forerunner of the USAF’s Logistics Command. When General Miller was reassigned to Europe in early 1943, Burchinal did not accompany him; instead he went to the 330th Bomb Group, a B-24 unit bound for Europe, but then in training at Alamagordo, New Mexico. Burchinal’s arrival in New Mexico was instructive: traveling by train, he disembarked at the tiny Alamagordo station and was greeted by a staff officer standing amidst twenty wooden coffins-training fatalities for one week. The Army Air Forces expected pilots and crews to progress from single-engine to four-engine aircraft proficiency in ninety days. For some, that pace was simply too swift. As the group’s operations and training officer, Burchinal instituted extensive night-flying training, stressed instrument flying, and placed instructor pilots in the tower twenty-four hours a day to reassure the nervous, inexperienced bomber crews. Gradually, confidence returned and accidents declined. “All those kids really wanted to know,” he recalled later, “was the secret, so that they could go to war and come back home alive.” Burchinal, however, did not go to Europe with the 330th. Instead, in January 1944 he went to t