hings unless you are a courageous guy with absolute integrity and dedication. I use the term image instead of mystique, but I like mystique better. Burchinal: But it is not necessarily charisma. Catton: I scratched out charisma, Dave. Kohn: Gentlemen, I greatly appreciate your time and effort in these interviews. Discussing the leadership of General LeMay is a fine way to end the interview. Johnson: Let me cut in here. I say that the people in the units want to look up to their leaders. They are very anxious to look up to their leaders. If they see that their leaders are trying, are honest and knowledgeable-I won’t repeat all the words of Generals Catton and Burchinal because I agree with all of them. But people will follow their leaders if they see the leaders are trying to do the right thing. Kohn: Thank you all again for sharing your thinking and experiences with the Air Force. 131  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 145 --- Bibliography Oral Histories The United States Air Force Historical Research Center at Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, maintains an extensive oral history collection. The following transcribed oral histories were used in preparation for this interview. Interview, Gen. David A. Burchinal, April 11, 1970 Interview, Gen. Jack J. Catton, July 19-20, 1977 Interview, Gen. Leon W. Johnson, August 2627, 1975 Interviews, Gen. Curtis E. LeMay, March 11, 1965; January 1965; March 9, 1971; March 29, 1972; and June 8, 1972 Published Sources Allison, Graham T. Essence of Decision: Explaining the Cuban Missile Crisis. Boston: Alperowitz, Gar. Atomic Diplomacy: Hiroshima and Potsdam. New York: Simon and An, Tai Sung. North Korea: A Political Handbook. Wilmington, Del.: Scholarly Resources, Anders, Roger M., ed. Forging the Atomic Shield: Excerpts from the Diary of Gordon E. Appleman, Roy E., and James M. Bums, et al. Okinawa: The Last Battle. [U.S. Army in Arnold, Henry H. Global Mission. New York: Harper Brothers, Inc., 1949. Beard, Edmund. Developi