slands in the Central Pacific. These Mananas bombing operations also used bombing tactics developed in Europe where Eighth and Fifteenth Air Force B17s and B-24s were attacking specific military and industrial targets. In January 1945 the Joint Chiefs of Staff, acting on the advice of General Arnold, shut down the strategic air operations in China and transferred the B-29s of the XX Bomber Command to the Marianas. See Craven and Cate, AAF in WWZZ, V, 92-179, 608-676. 54  File: --- interview_strategic.pdf --- Page 67 --- WORLD WAR 11: THE PACIFIC Catton: So you either had to go upwind or downwind to hold down the drift. Burchinal: If‘ you went upwind . . . LeMay: You sat there forever. Burchinal: You would be there until you ran out of fuel. LeMay: If yau came downwind then the bombardier had a hard time getting synchronized. Burchinal: You were doing 500 to 525 knots. Catton: We had a tough time there for the first several months of operations out of the Mirianas learning the use of the airplane at those altitudes. It was the combination of materiel problems-particularly the engines-and the difficulty witlh the jetstream. So we were not very successful. We gradually made changes to accommodate those problems. LeMay: Whm I got to India, fresh out of Europe, our force didn’t have standard tactics.49 They had gone on some missions at night and some in daytime, individually, and in formation, but nothing much standard. Every time you would fly a mission out of China to Japan, you encountered weather-the weather was worse there than it was in Europe. During the best month of the year there was an average of only seven days that would permit visual bombing from altitude; the worst month of the year, there was on1,y one day. We had to forecast that day and be up there over the target; we didn’t get any weather reports out of Japan, of course, and the Russians wouldn’t give us any. There was one Navy station up in the Gobi Desert. (Why the Navy was up there, I never did fin