er could serve the purpose. Opinion was divided, however. In- deed, the Air Corps Board took another look at the issue in early 1940 and concluded that bombers would need protection on daylight mis- sions where heavy opposition was likely: “The pertinent technical prob- lems incident to the provision of such protection merit thorough investi- gation.” But several studies that year led to inconclusive results on whether, and to what degree, the United States should continue the search for a viable escort."  This atmosphere of conflicting opinions—and doubts as to the tech- nical feasibility of a long-range escort—hardly was conducive to the development of a satisfactory plane. Unfortunately, American designers continued to focus on large, twin-engined types like the Bell YFM-1A Airacuda, the Lockheed XP-58, and the Northrop XP-61 (which belat- edly went into production as a night fighter). Equipping heavy bombers to serve as escorts to the others was considered, yielding the wartime YB-40 (a modified B-17), which proved eventually to be a complete failure."  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 171  “LESSONS” FROM FOREIGN WARS  Air theorists and planners in the United States hesitated to draw firm conclusions or lessons from the “little” wars of the late 1930s. Indeed, American interpretations did not differ substantially from those in Brit- ain, and they were remarkably similar in rhetorical style. Observations were heavily weighted with qualifiers that circumscribed the significance of the information reported or the value of the information itself. Air Corps officers insisted that these scattered foreign conflicts differed fun- damentally from any potential war between “first class powers” in Eu- rope. Despite this attitude, evidence from Spain heightened concerns in the United States about the ability of the bomber always to “get through,” subtly undermining the certainty with which the self-defending bomber theory was asserted.  Several branches of the U.S. Army took