onsensus on the dam raids’ impact. Historians recently have tended to argue that they probably had some effect on the  296 CONCLUSION  negotiations, even though that impact is difficult to specify and separate out from other factors, including, in particular, the death of Stalin. Con- rad Crane’s recent conclusions are representative: “The resort by the UN to such extreme measures as the dam attacks might have alarmed the enemy enough to influence their negotiating position to some de- gree, though there were many other factors involved in their decision to sign the armistice.”" If the exact impact of the raids was hard to specify, however, its effect on Korean civilians was not. In 1954 Brig. Gen. Don Z. Zimmerman, FEAF Deputy for Intelligence, argued, “The degree of destruction suffered by North Korea, in relation to its resources, was greater than that which the Japanese islands suffered in World War II.” He believed that “these pressures brought the enemy to terms.”* Many others agreed, and this interpretation cast the debate over means and ends in a positive light, problematical evidence not withstanding.  USAF planners wished to declare the war a success and move on. Most of all, they wished to put the experience—which they viewed as an aberration—behind them. FEAF’s 1954 final Report on the Korean War repeated a conclusion that Lt. Gen. George E. Stratemeyer had already drawn in 1950: the Korean conflict contained so many unusual factors as to make it a poor model for planning. In particular, the USAF wished to distance itself from the close air-support operations that had been a main a feature of the war. The report stated, “Because FEAF provided UN ground forces lavish close air support in Korea is no rea- son to assume this condition will exist in future wars.””  Air Force leaders were instead anxious to reassert their priority: pre- paring for strategic air war against the USSR. The funding allotted to the services as a result of the Korean War had greatl