rm determination on the part of Americans to pursue their own course: “A less resolute force than the Eighth Bomber Command,” they wrote, “would have broken down and a more versatile one would almost inevitably have followed the German and British example of changing to night attack.”**? But they argued, as well, that the achieve- ment of the Americans could not have been exploited nearly so well had it not been for two British aircraft, the Lancaster and the Mosquito, which were responsible for a great amount of the damage wrought by the air campaign.  Some thirty years after the British official history appeared, the Cana- dians produced an official history of their World War II air war—set squarely in the context of the Allied offensive as a whole. Stephen J. Harris, author of the strategic bombing sections of that history (titled The Crucible of War, 1939-1945), reached conclusions not dissimilar to—if somewhat more critical than—the Webster and Frankland vol- umes. While fully appreciating the bravery and sacrifice of Allied bomber crews, he took issue with some of the decisions imposed upon  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 285  them by their commanders. Taking a lead from the British and Ameri- can surveys, he questioned the efficacy of area bombing, pointing out the remarkable recovery capacity of both German industry and the Ger- man people. He also critiqued the mass incendiary attack on Dresden, and the stubborn insistence of Sir Arthur Harris that cities were the only targets that mattered.” He argued, however, that bombing had in fact served as a kind of “second front,” forcing a significant diversion of German resources into a defensive effort. He pointed out, for instance, that of 19,713 88-mm and 128-mm dual purpose flak/antitank artillery pieces produced between 1942 and 1944, all but 3,172 were allocated to air defense—denying the Wehrmacht a critical tool for the ground battle."  Recent analyses of the German war economy and of World War II in general ha