aller stations, at larger stations more extensive marshaling yards allowed trains to maneuver around damaged tracks and stay more or less on schedule.”* The American survey concluded that the majority of damage done at the important BASF of Ludwigshafen was caused by falling shells and debris from German anti-aircraft guns. It also claimed that the moral effect of bombing had done the most to curtail output at the plant through low- ered worker morale and losses in production due to air raids.” Reports on German towns frequently specified lost working hours due to raids or air raid alerts. Like the British, the Americans were impressed with the indirect effects that might be realized from bombing—specifically the loss of production (from both time in air raid shelters and lowered worker morale), the cost of establishing and maintaining defenses (in- cluding shelters, anti-aircraft batteries, and home defense flights), and, in general, the diversion of resources from offensive to defensive purposes.”  Estimations of the moral effect in the American survey suffered from the same limitations as the British survey, namely, the phrase did not lend itself to ready or reliable quantification. In reporting on it, Ameri- can survey members conscientiously wrote up summaries of interviews with factory owners and municipal officials. In general, though, the task was difficult and elusive. And the simple fact that they had been sent out to search for evidence of bombing effects set up expectations in the minds of survey members that such evidence existed. On the other hand, in some instances the Germans revealed a tendency to downplay such effects for the sake of national or personal pride. Even if all assessments of moral effect were inherently imprecise, however, the U.S. survey’s repeated references to it indicate that it was accepted as a sig- nificant, integral element of aerial bombardment. The report on Co- blenz stated for instance that, “everyone interviewed [was] of t