rowds, and when a direct hit on the Odhams Printing Works (doubling as an air raid shelter) claimed eighty-five severely injured and thirty-eight dead. The following night the Germans flew R-planes, without Gothas, against London. On the night of 16 February an R-plane dropped the single largest bomb of the  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 35  war: thirteen feet in length, it weighed one metric ton. As all this tran- spired, the Germans also raided Paris, shocking the city’s inhabitants who had not been hit hard since a zeppelin attack two years before.”  British government debates reflected worries about the course of the war and anxiety about the future. Concerned about German efforts to terrorize the British population, the War Cabinet discussed the possi- bility of large-scale air attacks on London (by as many as five hundred bombers) that might overwhelm the capacity of the fire brigades.’ In- deed, so profound were concerns about the stability of the homefront that government planners would develop (in the spring of 1918) Emer- gency Scheme L. This highly secret plan aligned military districts with police districts, and replaced civil authority with military control. It re- quired government authorities to maintain in Britain the equivalent of about eight divisions—units otherwise capable of overseas service. Though its purpose was not stated explicitly and must be deduced from the structure and requirements of the scheme, it was almost certainly to maintain control in a domestic emergency, and to counteract the emer- gence of revolutionary dissent.”*  BRITAIN AND THE BEGINNINGS OF STRATEGIC BOMBING  In the meantime the British authorities had, in October 1917, hastily established a detachment of mainly single-engine aircraft at Ochey, France—the 41st Wing under Brig. Gen. Cyril Newall—to fly reprisal raids against Germany. In a foreshadowing of 1939-40, the French urged the British not to launch strikes that would encourage German retaliation on French cities. The 4