le of identification. Reasonable care should be taken in attacks on such tar- gets so as to reduce the chances of collateral civilian casualties. The devil, as ever, lurked in the details of the phrase “legitimate military objectives.” Nonetheless, these guidelines had provided the basis for a directive issued to the Chief of Bomber Command in September during the Munich crisis.”  The following month the Chiefs of Staff’s Joint Planning Sub- Committee weighed the relative advantages and disadvantages of a re- stricted bombing policy. Its disadvantages included the loss of deterrent value, reduced ability to apply economic pressure on Germany from the air, and lessened means to reduce Germany’s air strength (although it had already been admitted that the prospects of doing this were lim- ited). The advantages included reducing the danger of an initial German air offensive and winning over world public opinion (especially Ameri- can opinion) if Germany chose to start an air offensive against Britain. In the end, the advantages of restriction looked more compelling. If the immediate weaknesses of Bomber Command meant that the force would have to be conserved to the greatest extent possible, it made no sense to risk provoking an all-out German attack.”  Planners working on targeting policy assumed that it would be legiti-  182 CHAPTER 4  mate to attack military targets in populated areas.” The prospect of imminent war forced discussion of the thorny legal issues that had re- mained unsettled for so long. But even determined and focused efforts did not wholly solve the intrinsic difficulties embedded in the problem. Sir John Slessor later recalled these debates as “difficult and depress- ing.” The seriousness with which air planners considered the issues, he wrote, was motivated by a desire to avoid bringing down “upon our then virtually defenceless heads a terrible weight of attack, without any counterveiling advantages to ourselves or our allies.” He added, “We never h