en 1942 and 1944, all but 3,172 were allocated to air defense—denying the Wehrmacht a critical tool for the ground battle."  Recent analyses of the German war economy and of World War II in general have drawn on expanded bodies of evidence, further economic analysis, and prior scholarship to add to the ongoing debate about bombing in World War II. Though critical of Harris and fully cognizant of the many problems inherent in the bombing campaigns, Gerhard Weinberg made clear both the direct and indirect effects of bombing on the Nazi economy.” In his recent book Why the Allies Won, Richard Overy argued that, in general, the bombing offensive caused German military leaders to drain much-needed air strength away from the main fighting fronts to protect the Reich, giving relief to the Russians and helping ease the situation in the Mediterranean. Less directly, money and resources that went into making anti-aircraft guns could not simul- taneously be used to build tanks—and soldiers operating those guns could not simultaneously drive tanks. In addition, he argued that bomb- ing set a “strict ceiling” on German economic output: “By the middle of the war, with the whole of continental Europe at her disposal, Germany was fast becoming an economic superpower. The harvest of destruction and disruption reaped by bomb attack, random and poorly planned as it often was, was sufficient to blunt German economic ambitions.” Overy argued that strategic bombing achieved all that was realistically asked of it. And bombing, he added, allowed the Allies to rely on their preference for bringing economic and scientific power (as opposed to large armies) to bear on their enemies, resulting in lower Allied casualties.  Overy’s conclusions, written for a wide-ranging account of World War II intended for a general readership, relied to a great degree on his scholarly investigations of the German war economy. In that realm he has argued that the rationalization of the German war economy, achie