not by the actual physical destruction of an armed force, but by the destruction of its belief in ultimate victory and its will to win.”® On World War I bombing, Sherman argued, “The Germans believed that the clamor of civilians for protection would find a ready echo among the governing politicians who would force the mili- tary authorities to protect their city. The event seems fully to have justi- fied their belief.”*°  From these premises he moved toward an explanation of the future of the bomber, pronouncing enthusiastically, “The bomber now stands forth as the supreme air arm of destruction. . .. When nations of today look with apprehension on the air policy of a neighbor, it is the bomber they dread.”"' While Sherman recognized the bomber’s potential against civilian populations, he guardedly cautioned that any decision to bomb cities had to be political and not strictly military. In addition, he be- lieved that the trend toward bombing civilian populations might be mit- igated by the practical fear of reprisals. Influenced perhaps by his expe- rience as a member of the U.S. team sent to participate in the drafting of the 1922-23 Hague Air Rules, Sherman believed that the direction in international law was toward proscribing deliberate air attacks on civil- ian populations. Though he understood all the difficulties (including the persistent problem of defining “military targets”), he nonetheless ar- gued, “Among peoples in whom the spirit of sport has been strongly inculcated, it is peculiarly abhorrent to contemplate the waging of war on unarmed civilians of all ages and sexes.”**  Building on a traditional interpretation of the importance of interdic- tion in war, Sherman asserted that “the military objective of bombard- ment aviation, par excellence, is the hostile system of supply.” There-  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 141  fore, “The long-range of the bomber should be utilized to the full, and every sensitive point and nerve center of the [supply] syst