t astray either had to return early or bomb a target of opportunity.””  As the failures mounted, General Arnold grew impatient with Han- sell. Like other American commanders and politicians, Arnold was anx- ious to see the war end as quickly as possible; he hoped that aerial bombing would play a conspicuous role in final victory, vindicating ex- penditure on the B-29, and enhancing the USAAF’s chances for full in- dependence after the war. The setbacks in the European theater in the autumn of 1944 only increased his determination to push hard in the Far East. In mid-December, Arnold’s deputy, Gen. Lauris Norstad, con-  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 267  veyed to Hansell an “urgent requirement” for a full-scale fire raid on Nagoya. Hansell undertook it reluctantly, arguing that he did not want to diverge from the priority mission of “precision bombing” just at the moment when, he believed, results were within his grasp.”  Hansell fully understood that the COA had emphasized the vulner- ability of Japanese cities to incendiary attack, and his own daylight tac- tics had included incendiaries, in particular for use against “home shop” production in Japanese cities. He knew, too, that nighttime incen- diary raids were in the original plans for the air war in the Far East. But he had an instinctive attraction to selective targeting and he believed— in accordance with the plans he had seen before leaving Washington— that nighttime area raids were to be undertaken as a “last resort, and only if precision bombing proved infeasible or failed to do the job.” He did not feel that events yet compelled such drastic measures. His read of the situation, however, was too complacent. Arnold was impa- tient, and, while Hansell had been dedicating himself to tactical and operational considerations in the theater, Washington-based plans for the air war in Japan had been changed to raise the priority of area incendiary missions. As Michael Sherry has pointed out, Hansell’s fail- ure to compr