re neither fully open nor fully closed  INTRODUCTION 5  to the implications of new information. While a preponderance of con- trary information can eventually shift our beliefs, any given datum will tend to be interpreted consistent with our original predispositions. The result is that preexisting beliefs, once organized and established, have a staying power in the face of new information that one might not expect, looking only at the new data itself. In general, we also prioritize incom- ing information according to its emotional vividness. Emotionally remote information, such as written memoranda, statistics, or second- and third-hand reports, carries less impact than first-hand personal experience, especially when the latter is unusually painful, strikingly positive, or uniquely formative. The medium influences receptivity, inde- pendent of the analytical merit of the information per se. In particular, early personal experiences of decision makers often have an effect that later analytical input cannot easily match.  A second broad class of information-processing bias relates to the effects of stress on decision making. Few of us respond the same way to stressful and to banal situations. In particular, most people rely on a variety of mechanisms to enable continued functioning in very difficult conditions. For example, choosing between two mutually exclusive goods—or between two apparently unattractive alternatives—is diffi- cult and unpleasant. Either something valued must be given up, or something repugnant must be accepted. Neither is easy to do. We there- fore tend to deny that stressful choices really have to be made. Over- looking or discounting the real virtues of one good reduces the apparent scale of loss when both cannot be had; overlooking or discounting the real drawbacks of one bad option moderates apparent costs when one must be chosen anyway. Either strategy, however, leads to a mistaken assessment of at least one choice, and a tendency to overlook