tish public did not comprehend the nature of Bomber Command’s effort was, in fact, misplaced. Reports of Home Intelligence indicated not only that the public understood the nature of Bomber Command’s war, but that they wished to see Ger- many punished.”*  Harris’s belief in the efficacy of city bombing was intuitive, but it also was supported by the selective reading of data, and by a number of problematical assumptions about the German war economy and Ger- man morale. The Bomber Command staff continued to assume that Germany had little slack in its economy and only limited ability to recu- perate from bombing raids. In a 1942 report the staff claimed that the enemy was already “strained to the limit.” (Conversely, the failure of German bombers to cause serious disruption in Britain from 1940-41 was explained away as a result of the island’s economic “fat and tre- mendous recuperative power.”) Though there was no systematic, ana- lytical evaluation of enemy morale, the British continued to assume that Germany was worse off than Britain had been during the blitz.” If re- ports on the state of German morale were not always consistent with one another, they usually contained enough positive information to sus- tain the hopes of those who wanted to believe that bombing could seri- ously erode Germany’s will to fight. A British Air Intelligence report of September 1942, for instance, had indicated that Germany was facing significant housing shortages for its population as a result of Bomber Command raids. A Directorate of Intelligence paper covering 15 Febru- ary to 15 March 1943 argued that the period under review saw a “sud- den, and in some cases a severe, decline in morale in the areas attacked, and increase in the areas over which the indirect results of raids have been apparent.” And a March 1943 letter from the U.S. Embassy, which conveyed information from its Legation in Helsinki, claimed that an eyewitness to Bomber Command attacks on Berlin reported terrific de