ir Service priori- ties to favor independent operations. Like Foch, General Pershing was reluctant to divert resources away from the battlefield to underwrite a  56 CHAPTER 1  proposition so uncertain as long-range bombing. And Pershing’s Chief of Staff, Maj. Gen. J. W. McAndrew, directed that, despite the philoso- phy behind Trenchard’s IF, “It is of special importance that the higher officers among our bombing personnel . . . be warned against any idea of independence and that they be taught from the beginning that their efforts must be closely coordinated with those of the remainder of the Air Service and with those of the ground army.”** Also that sum- mer, the name “Strategical Aviation, Zone of Advance” was changed to “G.H.Q. Air Service Reserve” to quell any heresies suggesting that this Air Service function was in any way independent of the rest of the army. In the end, the American aerial effort never engaged the Ger- man economy; its focus remained the battlefield. No section on “strate- gical” bombing appeared in the “Final Report” of the history of the Air Service in World War I, a compilation managed largely by Gorrell. As his plan for strategic bombing had not been implemented, Gorrell may have decided that it had no business in an operational history. Indeed, Gorrell did not even include his tenure as head of the “Strategical Sec- tion” in a biographical note he provided later (in 1927) to the U.S. Military Academy Association of Graduates.” Apparently he judged it wise not to emphasize too strongly his brief foray into the realm of independent air operations.  If the RAF had gained only a tenuous toehold on independence in World War I, the U.S. Army Air Service had not even made its first footsteps in such a direction. Production failures and an “early” armi- stice (from the perspective of the airmen) foreclosed Air Service hopes for postwar autonomy. General Pershing devoted few words and little praise to the role of the Air Service when he wrote up