eather intervals would create opportunities for attacks on eastern German cities such as Berlin, Leipzig, Chemnitz, and Dresden for the purpose of causing confusion and hampering the eastward movement of German troops. Sinclair sent Churchill a minute to that effect.  The prime minister, anticipating something more dramatic, sent back a sharp reply, which said in part, “I asked whether Berlin, and no doubt other large cities in East Germany, should not now be considered espe- cially attractive targets.” His response implied that he was not only interested in making life rough for the Germans, but also impressing the Soviets (on the eve of the Yalta conference) with the power of the Allied strategic air forces. Churchill’s reaction prompted the Air Staff to in- struct Harris to attack the previously identified cities in eastern Ger- many in an effort to cause confusion behind the German lines.’ Portal and Bottomley discussed the plan with Spaatz and Tedder, and, at a meeting of the Allied air commanders on 1 February 1945, Spaatz read his colleagues a copy of the new directive placing Berlin, Leipzig, and Dresden on the target priority list just below oil.'”  On the night of 13-14 February, the city of Dresden, swollen with refugees fleeing the Eastern Front battles, was attacked by a force of over 800 RAF bombers. On 14 February American bombers, using vi- sually assisted H2X, bombed the Dresden marshaling yards with an ordnance mix of 60 percent high explosives and 40 percent incendiaries. The city was already an inferno.'* The attack on Dresden was at once routine and exceptional. There had been nothing unusual in the plan- ning or execution of the raid—nothing in particular to distinguish it  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 255  from the other operations carried out by the Allied air forces at the same time. The Eighth Air Force had already bombed the city’s “indus- trial area” on 7 October 1944 and would do so again on 17 April 1945. In addition, the Eighth would bomb