ending that bomber aviation  170 CHAPTER 3  seek out every means for self-defense; only if all other means failed should additional aircraft be provided to support long-range missions. It suggested that if the need for an escort was fully demonstrated, then a search for a suitable machine should be made among existing aircraft types. The board did not want to see time, resources, or attention taken away from other projects of higher status. Several two-seater designs received preliminary consideration, but the greater promise was seen to reside in a larger platform—perhaps a modified bomber.” Larger planes, however, would not match the maneuverability and fighting characteristics of the defensive fighters they would have to face.  The heightened tensions of the late thirties, and greater investment in aviation generally, drew some attention back to fighters and to the ques- tion of escorts particularly. But a 1938 conference on escorts reflected ongoing confusion regarding design possibilities, and a 1939 study con- cluded pessimistically that there was “little, if any, possibility” of build- ing an escort fighter with the necessary range and performance to cope with the enemy’s short-range interceptors.’” Continuing concern over fire hazards led the Chief of the Air Corps in May 1939 to order that no tactical plane be equipped with a droppable tank."  At the same time, the bomber units themselves tended to consider escorts largely superfluous in light of increased bomber speeds and tac- tics using altitude, cloud, and movement to evade enemy defenses. In June 1939, Lt. Col. Donald Wilson, Director of Air Tactics and Strategy at ACTS, cautioned the Air Corps against diverting too many resources to the escort issue. He argued that bombers modified with additional firepower could serve the purpose. Opinion was divided, however. In- deed, the Air Corps Board took another look at the issue in early 1940 and concluded that bombers would need protection on daylight mis- s