e morale of soldiers on the front, and generally imperil the prosecution of the war.” Fears of possible domestic collapse in wartime Britain almost certainly facilitated the interwar tendency of the British to accept the idea that Germany had succumbed, in the autumn of 1918, to an unraveling homefront.  The interpretation of First World War experience and the ramifica- tions it seemed to hold had been conditioned by expectation, which, in turn, had rested on nagging fears about social stability, degeneracy, and the potential for political upheaval; initial experiences and “might have beens” strongly influenced official memory of events. In the absence of such expectation, a somewhat different interpretation might have been possible. The behavior of the British public in the First World War had been generally admirable. Overall, the public had revealed (and taken pride in) a propensity for steadfastness, orderliness, and determination. Though there was certainly disruption, exhaustion, and popular resent- ment of perceived government incompetencies, the likelihood of home- front collapse was less than officials had feared. Despite the very large numbers of people using the Underground and public buildings for shel- ter, for instance, stampedes of panicked crowds were very rare.” While the zeppelin and Gotha/ Giant raids had caused some outbreaks of pub- lic discontent and disorder, these had rarely become grave, uncontrolled problems for civil authorities. For many, the raids had the effect of ex- citing British desire to prevail in the war; it was not infrequently the case, for instance, that the numbers of prospective soldiers turning up at recruiting stations increased in the aftermath of the zeppelin raids.” Lost work hours were inefficient, and labor problems were certainly unsettling to authorities—but neither had been paralyzing to the war effort. Finally, as noted above, air defenses had, in fact, improved mark- edly following the early zeppelin raids, and a