labour at several of the Works might have been confi- dently expected.”  Not infrequently the survey team had to confront evidence that un- dermined the case they sought to make. For instance, German workers (including women, who were not choosing between factory work and the front) usually could be persuaded to stay on the job simply by salary raises. In addition, a number of the interviewed factory directors claimed that strategic bombing had no moral effect; one even explained that when the time came to enter shelters, the workers entertained themselves by dancing and enjoying other amusements.” While the in- vestigators did not fail to acknowledge these things, they attempted to  60 CHAPTER1  downplay their significance where possible. They argued, for instance, that “[a]lthough the Directors of one or two of the works visited effec- ted to make light of the moral effect produced by air raids, there can be no doubt whatever that it has been very considerable in many cases, and, if we regard the results as a whole, relatively greater than the mate- rial damage achieved.”  Some of the German posters, bulletins, and official notices reprinted in the report on industrial centres revealed that the psychological effect of bombing may have been less profound than the British wished to assert. For instance, a message posted in Bonn on 7 August 1918 com- plained, “On the occasion of the last air raid alarm, the prescribed rules of conduct were very inadequately observed by the public. During the alarm the streets were as full as ever of pedestrians and vehicles. Such levity is incredible [original emphasis]. . . . It is particularly regrettable that the adults should set the children such a bad example in neglecting the prescribed precautionary measures.”*“ But the very existence of civil defense efforts also served as evidence for the British of the fact that their bombing had caused German authorities to attend to the protec- tion of their population.  Word choices mad