does not matter.” Finally, Joubert insisted that the RAF must avoid the fatal flaw of devoting too many resources to a defensive force. In a statement worthy of his pre-World War I predecessors, he wrote, “The nation with the better fighting men, the stouter hearts, the better leaders and equipment will, in the end, out- fight the weaker, who will be forced more and more on the defensive, until finally the successful offensive of the stronger side will have given it the security it requires.”””  From his position in the Directorate of Plans, Group Capt. Charles Portal also weighed in. He argued that the Wessex Bombing Area ap- preciation was “about as unfortunate as it could be,” since the aim, as articulated by the AOC “leads directly to the idea that we can ‘make war on our own’ by ‘indiscriminate attacks on the civil population,’ which is exactly what . . . we have told the Government that it would not pay us to do.” Portal concluded, however, that the misinterpretation was not due to a lack of clarity in the manual, which, he believed, emphasized the moral effect. He tactfully suggested that the AOC prob- ably had insufficient data on the military situation, and this led him to put forward an aim that was “far too high and vague to form the basis of an A.O.C.’s appreciation.”  The war aim issue was never fully resolved before it was taken up again in early 1935 by Group Capt. Arthur T. Harris, Deputy Director of Plans, who concluded it might be worthwhile to revise and reissue an official statement of the war aim.” A draft, produced late in the year, stated simply that victory in war “goes to that nation which can the sooner break down the other’s power of resistance.” The author (very probably Harris) argued that a nation’s power of resistance, which is comprised of the interdependent qualities of military strength, financial and economic power, manpower, industrial power and the strength of  102 CHAPTER 2  character and moral attributes of the enemy people, is