.” Stressing the point, they argued, “Bombing for moral effect alone . .. which was probably the excuse for the wide spread of bombs over a town rather than their concentration on a factory, is not a productive means of bombing. The effect is legitimate and just as considerable when attained indirectly through the bombing of a factory.”?**  Finally, and significantly, the American survey concluded that to ob- tain useful results in future wars, one must first make a “careful study” of the different kinds of industries in an enemy nation, and ascertain “how one industry is dependent on another and what the most impor- tant factories of each are.” The authors added, “A decision should be reached as to just what factories if destroyed would do the greatest damage to the enemy’s military organization as a whole.”*” In this they clearly favored the Tivertonian rather than the Trenchardian approach to long-range bombardment. Of course it is impossible to determine whether the Americans, if they had had the chance, would have fol- lowed their own advice: their virgin status with respect to bombing surely gave them the freedom to be critical of their allies’ efforts. In any event, the criticisms leveled at Trenchard by the London Air Staff clearly resonated with them. American air planners took these seriously, not only at the time of the survey, but in the years following the war. The American observers were convinced that a more systematic analysis of target sets, and a more deliberate, concentrated attempt to destroy one key target after another, would prove beneficial in the prosecution of a program of strategic bombing. Ironically, the ideas in which Tiver- ton and his colleagues had set such store were heeded by the Americans and incorporated into what eventually would become the American canon on strategic bombardment.””*  ee  While there had been no consensus on the role that aircraft might play in war prior to 1914, there had been a good deal of speculation— partic