erican security. This perception, which had been for- malized in Anglo-American staff conversations earlier in the year, un- derscored the priority of American planning for a European war. For Churchill, the attack on Hawaii was, ironically, a bright spot in an oth- erwise bleak year. He immediately journeyed to the United States in order to observe and guide American war planning."  THE FIRST STEPS TOWARD A COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE  A reorganization of the American defense establishment, which had be- come effective on 20 June 1941, had created the U.S. Army Air Forces and had placed Gen. Hap Arnold at its helm. Arnold was directly re- sponsible to the Army Chief of Staff, and was responsible for establish- ing all policies and plans for army aviation. After Anglo-American con- sultations in January 1942, a Combined Chiefs of Staff Committee was formed to meet regularly in Washington.’ U.S. strategy, which, like Britain’s would rely heavily on aerial bombardment, would be imple- mented by using Britain as a base of operations. This required not only that the Americans work out plans for bringing the Army Air Forces across the Atlantic to join the offensive against Hitler, but also that the British make organizational changes in order to have the personnel in place to help facilitate those plans. Finally, the two allies had to hammer out a mutually acceptable command hierarchy and a coordinated plan for the air offensive. In early February 1942, Gen. Arnold designated Carl Spaatz (now a two-star general) to serve as the head of the Army Air Forces in Britain.  The Americans made clear from the start that their interest was in  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 209  selective attacks on German industry based on high altitude “precision” daylight bombing. On 19 February 1942, just days after Bomber Com- mand’s new directive had focused it on the morale of German workers, the British Air Staff in Washington conveyed to the Air Ministry in London the essentials of U.S. a