n Simon felt them- selves engaged in a struggle for their national security and the mainte- nance of their way of life, American participants saw themselves acting mainly as friendly facilitators in an effort to solve a European problem. While it is impossible to know—in light of political developments in Germany, whether any useful outcome at Geneva was possible—it is clear that American “help” ultimately served more as a hindrance to progress than an aid to it.  Concerned that the participating governments were not making satis- factory headway, President Hoover in May 1932 prepared a sweeping proposal that included dramatic reductions in ground armies, navies, and military aviation. He hoped that the initiative would build on the momentum that he believed the United States had generated through the Washington Naval Treaty and the Kellogg-Briand Pact of the 1920s, and also bring him favorable attention prior to the upcoming presiden- tial election. Initially, U.S. Secretary of State Henry Stimson warned the president that “the best method of promoting . . . progress was by help- ful private discussion and not by dramatization or publicity.”” But Stimson was in sympathy with the president’s intent and was prepared eventually to endorse the proposal with significant modifications. The revised plan suggested cutting battleships and aircraft carriers by one third, greatly reducing the size of national armies, and abolishing all military aviation except that used for observation and intelligence. It  152 CHAPTER 3  contained no security arrangement designed to allay French concerns about a resurgent Germany. Even though the proposal had the official endorsement of the Secretary of War and the Chief of Staff of the Army, there was little desire within the Air Corps to see a severe curtailment of military aviation. And the Department of Commerce, concerned for the future of American civil aviation, did not wish to see any restriction in that realm.*  The Hoover Administr