nd, provoking furious battles of attrition between German and US. fighters. These contests ultimately proved to be a first step in the destruction of the Luftwaffe.  In this same period, the Americans took other steps to intensify the  228 CHAPTER S$  results of their bombing campaign. Quietly they had moved away from their emphasis on “precision” bombing and toward an acceptance (though certainly not an embrace) of instrument bombing aids. In his book on H2S radar, scientist Bernard Lovell argued it was no coinci- dence that the dramatic change in the negative American attitudes to- ward H2S coincided with Eighth Air Force operations in Europe, so often hindered by cloudy weather.” In late 1942, General Arnold had expressed interest in nonvisual bombing methods by ordering a study of navigational aids used in homing and target location by radio means, and Eaker urged and prioritized the acquisition of such equipment. Early in 1943 individual bomb sighting (by bombardiers in each air- plane) was abandoned and replaced by a procedure in which all aircraft dropped their bombs simultaneously on a signal from the leader of a combat “box” of 18 to 21 aircraft. Because each box covered a sizable stretch of territory below, the result was, inevitably, pattern bombing. Under combat conditions—when bombers had to contend with fighters, anti-aircraft fire, and smoke—it became very difficult to bomb in tight patterns. “Precision bombing” was simply not an applicable term for this practice.” In early November 1943, following on the heels of the second Schweinfurt raid, Arnold gave American bombers permission to operate “blind”—to attack area targets through cloud.” This enabled them greatly to increase the tempo of their bombing operations; indeed, “blind” raids quickly came to comprise a significant portion of the American effort in Europe. But Arnold, mindful of American public opinion and comparisons with the British, warned against the use of the term “blind bombing,” as he