bility. Their enthusiasm for this new approach to warfare stemmed from the assumption that it would prove more powerful, more effective, and more expeditious than any mode of warfare ever previ- ously tried. Thinkers and planners in both air forces concentrated on the social and economic sinews that held together modern societies, and tried to envision means of eroding them. Precisely how the goal might be achieved was less clear, however, than the goal itself. The phrase “to undermine the enemy’s will to fight” contained much room for inter- pretation. Trenchard’s emphasis on the moral effect, which prioritized the psychological and the indirect effects of bombing, only intensified the vagueness of an inherently imprecise idea. The Trenchardian vision of two air forces largely ignoring each other to strike directly at one another’s “vital centres” implied that cities might be early—perhaps immediate—objectives for long-range bombers. Even though this pow- erful implication (useful for purposes of deterrence) was widely inter nalized by politicians and government agencies, and constantly rein- forced by a steady stream of popular writing, the RAF was not at liberty to elaborate upon its grim ramifications. Those were highly con-  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 163  troversial and, in themselves, politically unacceptable. For a variety of reasons Trenchard was disinclined either to specify targeting carefully or to erect any preemptive boundaries around it. The flexibility served many purposes, suited his nature, and had few disadvantages in the relatively benign security environment of the 1920s. As his successors grappled with questions of targeting they realized that the course of a given war would determine what might be open to them; contingencies and political factors would bear heavily on actions. No planner on ei- ther side of the Atlantic could predict the exact course of a future air war or the amount of political leeway that air forces might be given with