hardian tactics did in fact cause anxiety on the German side of the lines. Astonished by the British determination despite heavy losses, the Germans worried about interference with their artillery work, and wondered if they might be in danger of losing control over the battle- field. But it is not clear that Trenchard’s approach was the unqualified success he made it out to be. The high cost of the patrols offset their value to some extent. The RFC lost 20 percent of its total force in the first weeks of fighting at the Somme, and losses remained very high throughout the battle. Despite their smaller numbers, the Germans often were able to seize the initiative and impose heavy costs on their opponent when there was a critical engagement. In any event, Trenchar- dian tactics were problematical by 1917 when the Germans adopted a tactical posture that emphasized local air superiority in vital areas.”  Trenchard’s “relentless offensive” generally received the support of his colleagues, in part because they complacently assumed that German casualties had to be higher than British casualties.’ After the war, how- ever, it became clear that the opposite was true. Contributing greatly to the problem for the British was Trenchard’s insatiable appetite for new pilots, which stretched the already inadequate pilot training program to a point where it could not turn out competent aviators fast enough— leading to a vicious spiral in which novices were often quick victims of the more experienced enemy. Many lower-ranking officers had ex- pressed serious misgivings about Trenchard’s tactics, and these doubts had been reflected in the press and in Parliamentary debates. Indeed, a government committee of Enquiry investigated the situation, but since testimony came almost exclusively from senior officers (few junior offi- cers were willing to risk airing their views), no charges of wrongdoing were leveled.* In a widely read account of the war written shortly after the armistice, the n