nsed Germany might be particularly vulnerable psy- chologically. This sense of vulnerability would be influenced by the state of the German political, economic, and military situation. Thunderclap was not so much a triumph of Trenchardism as it was an acceptance of the idea that the conditions for victory in war are evoked not just by air warfare, but by ground and naval warfare as well. The plan, which would focus on Berlin, would be carried out when this interplay of forces had brought Germany to the point of collapse. Much of the mo- tivation for Thunderclap was to help hasten, consolidate, and control the German surrender.”'”  In August, Eisenhower was invited to prepare plans for an attack on Berlin along the lines suggested by Portal. Spaatz was wary of it; he told Eisenhower that he thought Thunderclap would compromise American claims regarding “precision” targeting of military objectives. Eisen- hower imposed his own view, however, stating that while he, too, had “always insisted that U.S. Strategic Air Forces be directed against preci- sion targets,” he was nonetheless “always prepared to take part in any- thing that gives real promise to ending the war quickly.”'’ Spaatz in- structed Doolittle to be ready to bomb Berlin “indiscriminately” on Eisenhower’s order. In the midst of his debate with Eisenhower, though, Spaatz protested to Arnold: “There is no doubt in my mind that the RAF want very much to have the U.S. tarred with the morale bombing aftermath which we feel will be terrific.”"*  Spaatz’s protest calls for some elaboration. There was no single, co- herent attitude among American airmen about bombing for psychologi- cal effect: some were lured by its promise; some perceived it as ineffi- cient; and others, including Doolittle, perceived it as both inefficient and ethically troubling. The desire to see the war over in 1944 was strong— so strong, in fact, that it caused American air planners to hope that by creating enough disillusionment and chaos i