ght rather than overlook disadvantages. In general, the Air Staff frowned on those few cooperative initiatives that did develop with the army, and Army Air Forces maneuvers lacked the most basic features of practical cooperation."  The problem of cooperation with armies was not wholly ignored in the 1930s, however. In 1936 Sir John Slessor published a book called  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 99.  Air Power and Armies, which sought to address some of the army's concerns. It was a thoughtful effort and it revealed that not everyone in the RAF had forgotten about cooperation. But it did not change the central thrust of RAF thought, and Slessor did not abandon any of the things he had come to believe as a bomber advocate. Indeed, he worked hard to maintain the flexibility and maneuvering room of the RAF even as he sought to calm the fears of his sister service." Little changed in practice, and, despite some proposals late in the day, the British aircraft industry produced no specialized types for close support. In 1940, Capt. B. H. Liddell Hart confided in his diary that the British had “no suitable machines for low-flying attack, and the Air Staff object to the idea of air counter-attack against troops moving up.”"””  Other problems remained. After Trenchard’s retirement, RAF officers continued to be at pains to explain that their means of prosecuting a future war were not immoral or outside international law. Much of their writing uneasily addressed charges that long-range bombing would be less ethical than traditional forms of warfare, including naval shell- ing or blockading."* One frustrated writer lampooned the debate, pointing out that while an aerial bomb will, unfailingly, select as its target “the female sex and children under sixteen,” a shell from an eighteen-pounder on land or a ship “proceeds with unerring aim di- rectly to the target at which it is fired and . . . kills only the male popu- lation of fighting age.”"”  Part of the confusion left in the wake o