c- ing in Iraq and Palestine. The army resented the encroachment, and both the army and navy condemned as immoral the aerial bombing of tribal peoples. The RAF countered that bombing was no more indis- criminate than long-range shelling by the army or the navy.** Although air control exacerbated interservice problems and has remained contro- versial to this day, it helped insure the RAF’s continued survival since it served Churchill’s interests and offered apparent economies in the re- gions where it was applied.“ Air control did not entirely replace troops on the ground, though. Indeed, despite the fact that it raised bureaucra- tic tensions between the army and the RAF, in practice it produced a rare interwar phenomenon: examples of sound army-RAF cooperation in the field.”  Air control also reinforced the RAF’s attachment to the rhetoric of the moral effect of bombing. One Air Staff Memorandum (1920) ar- gued, “Aircraft depend to a great extent on the moral effect they create: this is at present considerable owing to ignorance in the native mind.” Another claimed, “In the later stages of operations when the enemy has learnt to conceal himself . . . air action must rely for its effect less on material damage inflicted than on the effect on the tribal morale of    BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 85  T.C.R. Higgins, an expert on home defense in 1918—argued on behalf of air defense, a compromise was reached that authorized the inclusion of seventeen fighter squadrons for the fifty-two-squadron force. This was twice as many as Trenchard preferred.” It represented a political compromise within the organization, but it also pointed to a difference of opinion in the RAF over the allocation of resources in strategic plan- ning, and—though not fully countenanced at the time—a potential dis- connect in the logic of emerging RAF declaratory policy. The stridency and consistency of Trenchard’s position in this debate implied that it was undergirded by more than a cynical view of in