in a largely congratulatory argument about strategic bombing’s heavy impact on German oil and communications, and the difficulties this posed for Reich Gen. Heinz Guderian. But perceptive readers would have picked up on the implications of what was called “a new and terrifying prodigy of air power.” In key respects, the Combined Bomber Offensive had become different from previous years. Both Brit- ish and American raids were, at this point in the war, unprecedented in their size and sustained fury. With less to fear from the Luftwaffe and with the results of an immense Anglo-American aircraft production ef- fort fueling their efforts, the allies could lay waste to locations of their choosing.”  Conditions in Dresden proved conducive to a firestorm. The 1,181 tons of incendiary bombs (of 2,646 tons total) falling from Lancaster bombers kindled fires that merged into a vast, self-sustaining conflagra- tion. There are no agreed-upon casualty figures from the Dresden raid; they vary from 35,000 to over 100,000. It was impossible to count  256 CHAPTER S  the dead, but the vast majority were women, children, and elderly— noncombatants trying to escape war’s crossfire.'* In 1968 one historian wrote perceptively, “In every sense, Dresden exemplifies the dangers of carrying an idea to its logical conclusion.”"*  The nature of the Times reporting on the allied strategic bombing campaign (along with the almost daily accounting of British citizens killed by German bomber and V-weapons attacks) had given British citizens little reason to question that campaign, and—aside from some notable exceptions like the Bishop of Chichester—they had not.‘ Reading about Dresden, Times readers learned that the raid had caused “fires everywhere, with a terrific concentration in the center of the city.”’” As the results became known in Britain, questions were raised about the means and ends of the strategic bombing campaign. Dresden contained important railway lines and some industry, but it wa