warrantably cockahoop as a result of their lim- ited experience to date.” But, he added, “[T]hey are setting about it in a realistic and business-like way, paying special attention to gunnery training, distribution of ammunition in the aircraft, cutting the bomb- load and increasing the ammunition of wing aircraft, and so on. And making all allowances for their natural optimism, I have a feeling they will do it.” He warned, “They have hung their hats on the day bomber policy and are convinced they can do it . . . to cast doubts on it just at present would only cause irritation and make them very obstinate.”"* In a memorandum to Sir Archibald Sinclair, he expressed confidence in the American plan and argued that massed formations might make daylight bombing feasible.'**  Neither Churchill nor Portal was convinced, however, and their let- ters and minutes accurately foresaw many of the problems that the US- AAF would face in the coming year. But Sinclair stepped into the fray as a voice of diplomacy. He urged Churchill not to force the issue before the Americans had made a real try at their “cherished policy of daylight penetration.” He was certain they would not be convinced of anything except through their own experience. And he further warned that to be fractious over bombing policy would play right into the hands of naval- ists like Adm. Ernest King, and might tempt the Americans to focus on the Pacific." At this point Portal followed suit and argued to Churchill that the Americans at least be given a fair trial. He suggested, though, that the Americans should look into radar navigation and bomb-aiming aids, and “press on with night adaptation as an insurance.” Though still harboring deep concerns, Churchill chose to keep quiet.'”  Discord between the British and the Americans over the other’s ap- proach to strategic bombing sometimes emerged in staff memoranda and in public discourse. For instance, a May 1941 letter from the Direc- tor of the Air Corps Board to t