migrants (nearly nine mil- lion between 1900 and 1910), and by labor unrest that was frequently interpreted as a harbinger of mass sedition or political revolution.”  During the interwar years Washington, D.C., was witness to hunger marches and protests. Unemployed veterans demanded payment of Ad- justed Service Certificates; demonstrations supported by the Communist party, the Trade Union Unity League, and the Unemployment Councils drew over 100,000 participants in New York City and Detroit in March of 1930." The “Red Scare” and the labor unrest of the Great Depres- sion also heightened political uneasiness, and social stability seemed un-  148 CHAPTER 3  realizable. But the linkages between these trends and speculation about air warfare, so prevalent in Europe, were far less clear in the United States. They existed, but as background to what still seemed a remote and theoretical problem. Reflecting on the contrast in European and American attitudes, Michael Sherry has argued, “Europeans seemed to grasp almost desperately at the airplane, knowing its terrible role in war but hoping it might prevent war. Americans either seized on it eagerly or ignored it complacently, inspired by a confidence about man’s ability to control his creations.”*  Americans, however, understood that their “free security” would not last forever in a world of ever-developing technology and increasing international tension. The advances and potentialities of air warfare were thus of interest, even if that interest could remain—for the time being—less immediate than in Europe. Like the Europeans, Americans worried about the prospect of gas warfare. Their fears were heightened by, among others, Thomas Edison, who proclaimed in 1921 that aerial bombing with poison gas could destroy a great city in five minutes and leave every creature either burned to death or suffocated.“ Edison’s stat- ure and dramatic rhetoric insured that his doomsday argument garnered attention. The combination of the bomb