killed or injured.  In general, though, the survey team stressed the moral effect (a term encompassing the “indirect effects”) of bombing far more than its mate- rial effect. In the report on blast furnaces, for instance, the authors pointed out that work stoppages of two to three hours on account of air raid alarms were not unusual, and that this had an impact on produc- tion at the plants. Using the Réchling plant at Vélklingen as an exam- ple, they noted that the works had been subject to air raid alarms forty- four times during the month of September, but attacked on only one occasion.’ Likewise for chemical and munitions factories: while the BASF and Oppau works were bombed fifteen times (thirteen times by the British and twice by the French), they endured 256 air raid alerts during the war.*” Examining output figures at the Vélklingen foundry, the survey team argued that the output deficit in a month with over forty alarms and no actual attacks was more than double the deficit in a month in which there were nine alarms and three actual attacks (that caused some limited physical damage). Indirect effects of bombing, especially air raid alarms, also were stressed in connection with the bombing of railway stations. While admitting that damage to railways had been, on the whole, “moderate,” A.P, 1225 (3rd ed.) nonetheless  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 59  emphasized that the interruption of rail traffic caused by alarms had been considerable, since, at times, trains were delayed outside of sta- tions for hours. The report concluded that “even if actual damage was not done, the raids on railways had a very marked effect on the normal and smooth working of traffic.”**  The loss of production caused by air raids was considered both an important and consequential indirect effect of bombing. Indeed, the sig- nificance attached to this idea would increase during the interwar years as British aviators contemplated the air campaigns of the future. But the British survey membe