increasingly “total,” war, but also concerns about the structure of modern economies and their susceptibility to disrup- tion. This assumption derived from a particular historical context: the anxieties felt by Edwardian-era politicians and military planners who looked with increasing trepidation on the forces transforming their societies.  Arguments about enemy vulnerability gave validity to air force claims for existence and continued (or increased) autonomy; they gave weight to assertions about air power as a coercive tool in war.’ If modern states were in fact highly vulnerable to long-range bombardment—which took war directly to industry, political leaders, and populations—then it made sense to maintain an organization that might either deter wars or win them in what promised to be a direct, expeditious way. Indeed, any state wishing to survive in the great contest of nations would be obliged to maintain an air force, not only to deter potential enemies, but to prevail against them should deterrence fail. Ultimately it was this argu- ment that sustained the postwar RAF and gave credence to those voices calling for an independent U.S. air force. But ideas about vulnerability rested more on assumptions and assertions than established fact. The World War I experience seemed to confirm notions undergirding argu- ments about social and economic vulnerability, but the interpretation of that experience had been conditioned by preexisting expectations, indi- vidual and organizational interests, and a general lack of analytical rigor in methods of assessment.  During the interwar years, bold claims for the power of bombers were combined with a lack of focused attention to how, precisely, they would operate in war, and how, exactly, bombing an enemy might lead to its political capitulation. This inattention to what, in hindsight, seems like crucial and essential detail stemmed from several important causes— but most powerfully, perhaps, from the way in which airmen perce