”  In line with the thinking developed at the Air Corps Tactical School, the authors of AWPD/1 believed that bombers could rely on speed, high-altitude, massed formations, armament, and defensive firepower to penetrate to their targets in daylight. Regarding the latter, they called for increased gun power in larger calibre machine guns and in cannon; power-operated turrets; and adequate armor plate protection for the combat crew and vital parts of the airplane.’ Still, the planners thought it wise to hedge their bets by paying at least some attention to the ques- tion of long-range escorts. Following a pattern established in the inter- war years, they misjudged the type of aircraft required when they called for a large, heavily gunned, two-seater type that would have a range equal to the bombers they would escort, and would have armor to pro- tect each of the crew members. They requested that prototypes be built and that production be expanded if such planes proved necessary in numbers.'”  The long-range escort fighter still proved a vexing problem, even though the means of solution—the auxiliary, droppable fuel tank—was within reach if only the right people had been able and willing to grasp it. The need to keep aircraft design simple in order to facilitate high volume production was apparently the reason why Col. Spaatz, who had some sway in these matters by virtue of his work in the AAF’s Plans and Matériel divisions, passed up an opportunity to have auxiliary fuel tanks placed on 623 P-39D aircraft.’* Later, in October 1941, a board convened especially to discuss the future development of pursuit aircraft and failed, again, to perceive the issue with insight and clarity. One of its members, Col. Ira Eaker, would be influenced by the attitudes of the RAE, which still had not found any solution to the escort problem. While the board saw a need for auxiliary tanks for fighters, and also for increasing the safety of bombers on deep penetration raids, it “never conne