ing the Badische Anilin und Sodafabrik of Ludwigs- hafen, manufacturer of poison gas and explosives. By late summer of 1915, however, German fighters were taking an increasingly heavy toll on French bombers. The French responded by flying in formation and adding improved engines and armament to reduce losses. Night flying was employed also, but it further complicated the already difficult task of locating targets. Because Paris was easily reachable by air, the French had to consider the prospect of reprisal attacks. Aircraft production problems and the increasingly urgent calls from the front lines caused the French program to be scaled back by 1916. Since the French were compelled to divide their resources in many directions, their bombing force never attained the size required to engage in sustained, punishing raids against the enemy. Nonetheless, they would continue their efforts throughout the war, choosing their targets on the basis of feasibility and significance to the enemy war effort.”  26 CHAPTER 1  The Royal Naval Air Service, by 1916 free of the main responsibility for home defense, continued to stretch in new directions. Though Churchill had departed after the Gallipoli fiasco, the RNAS still had bomber advocates whose zeal for long-range bombing had been strengthened by the Germans’ zeppelin campaign and public sentiment for reprisals. Operations continued out of Dunkirk, and by May 1916 an advance party had been sent to review the French facilities at Luxeuil-les-Bains, later to be the home base for the Royal Navy’s No. 3 Naval Wing. Though delayed by the Somme campaign, the Wing was ready by October to commence strategic strikes (sometimes in coopera- tion with the French) against selected targets, mainly Saar Valley iron works and blast furnaces. Like the French bombing units, the Luxeuil Wing was hindered by aircraft production problems and adverse weather.”  Decisions about the allocation of resources and the missions to be carried out by aircraft