five minutes and leave every creature either burned to death or suffocated.“ Edison’s stat- ure and dramatic rhetoric insured that his doomsday argument garnered attention. The combination of the bomber and the poison gas bomb was a potent one, and it flourished in the hands of sensationalist writers. By the 1930s, Americans had been introduced, too, to the dra- matic arguments of Italy’s Gen. Giulio Douhet, whose name quickly became associated with the bombing of cities and the use of gas weapons.  Publicity surrounding the annual Air Corps maneuvers captured pub- lic attention and produced newspaper coverage accompanied by photo- graphs, maps, and drawings (the latter usually having more to do with an imagined future than existing realities). A special “bombing mission” to New York, part of the 1929 maneuvers, prompted one reporter to write, “The Army post on Governor's Island was reduced ... to a ‘smoldering heap of ashes.’ The city’s defenses were hopelessly ‘crip- pled’ and the ‘enemy’ might have taken New York without trouble.”™ A Popular Science article from 1931 asked (above a depiction of bomber darkened skies and a burning city), “Can Enemy Planes Wipe Out America?” Speculation about Europe lent drama and immediacy to these kinds of tales. In a 1929 article for The New Republic, Stuart Chase postulated that fifty tons of gas dropped by two hundred planes would have the effect of destroying “every living thing in the London area.” Arguing that legal conventions and arms control agreements would be useless in holding back the tide of future war, he asserted that “it hardly pays to discuss any mechanism of warfare except the aero- plane” and added that offense was the only true defense against air  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 149  attack. At the end of his essay, he consoled his readers by pointing out that even if bombing destroyed one or more nations in a future war, it would probably not destroy all of Western civilization.**  Those affiliated with the