ding armies. In both na-  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 175  tions, but perhaps even more so in the United States, this combined with optimistic faith in technology. As Michael Sherry has perceptively asserted, “Air power appealed . . . to a deeper strain of antistatism and antimilitarism in American culture because its reliance on a small, tech- nically sophisticated elite apparently avoided the burdens of conscrip- tion, taxation, and death. It was the perfect weapon for a nation that wanted the fruits of centralized state power without challenge to tradi- tions of decentralized authority and individual autonomy.”  CHAPTER FOUR  Rhetoric and Reality, 1939-1942  On Sunday, 3 September 1939, just moments after Prime Minister Chamberlain had announced “this country is at war with Germany,” an air raid warning began to wail over London and other places in Britain. It proved, however, to be a false alarm and the “all clear” was signaled a half hour later.’ The air war did not commence with an all-out strate- gic bomber offensive pitting the aerial strength of each contestant against the vital centers of its enemy. No revolution in warfare had yet taken place; the older forms of warfare were not yet obsolete. Indeed, the contrast could hardly have been sharper between what happened and what many had expected to happen. By the end of the Second World War, however, the combined Anglo-American air forces were waging strategic bombing attacks on a scale that approached the most dramatic and assertive interwar predictions. In the intervening years, Anglo-American air planners, supported by their governments, strug- gled to find means and methods of using aerial bombardment to achieve national war aims. Their efforts, which came at a high cost to their own bomber crews and to enemy civilians, were sustained by a stubborn faith in the potential of bombers. The combined bomber offensive was characterized by constant adaptation and adjustment; its history is one of ongoing, re