and human—fueling a state’s capacity to wage war were legitimate tar- gets of attack. He did not feel compelled to shroud his work in a guise designed to make it more palatable for the public, and he felt disdain for those who felt it necessary to do so, including the personnel of the Ministry of Information, the government’s official propaganda arm.” His position was not only a matter of principle to him, but also a mat- ter of protecting the morale of his crews. He understood the tension inherent in their performing a given mission on a certain night, and then later seeing a censored or manipulated version of it in the newspapers. Unsurprisingly, Harris’s determination to pull no punches troubled his colleagues who either convinced themselves that much of the destruc- tion wrought by Bomber Command was incidental or collateral, or that it had to be portrayed as such. They found it difficult to understand the stubbornness of his position, perhaps in part because they realized that the British public might raise questions about bombing later on, even if they were disinclined to do so in the midst of intense warfighting. Though he had been prepared to argue the case vigorously for city bombing, Portal had recognized that it had to be handled carefully in order to avoid stirring public discomfort. Churchill, too, was concerned about the potential for postwar backlash against Bomber Command’s methods.  Harris’s differences with his colleagues led him into an extended cor- respondence with the Under Secretary of State, Air Ministry, Sir Arthur Street. Writing to Street on 25 October 1943, he argued that too little attention had been paid to his force relative to the Allied ground forces, and that too much attention had been focused on “the bombing of spe- cific factory premises” rather than “the obliteration of German cities  220 CHAPTER S$  and their inhabitants as such.” He complained that, instead of stressing that the recently attacked city of Kassel “contained over