zed by AWPD/1, it did not receive dedicated attention because American au- thorities in England believed the system to be more highly developed and robust than it actually was.”  The USSBS and British Survey both affirmed the importance of air supremacy. The USSBS Over-all Report on the European war had recog- nized it implicitly in its statement, “Allied air power was decisive in the war in western Europe.” The American official historians were more direct on the point, claiming, “Of all the accomplishments of the air forces, the attainment of air supremacy was the most significant, for it made possible the invasions of the continent and gave the heavy bombers their opportunity to wreck the industries of the Reich.”*” The impact and import of air superiority was recognized particularly in a report by Gen. Omar N. Bradley titled “Effect of Air Power on Military Operations.” After V-E day, Eisenhower suggested that Bradley serve as a military advisor to the USSBS, to offer the views of a ground com- mander to the overall evaluation of wartime strategic air power. Brad-  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 277  ley’s report stressed that, though some air commanders may have wished it otherwise, air forces did not function outside an operational context that used air power as “a prelude to and preparation for ground operations.” He gave pride of place to the destruction of Ger- man air power and its key role in the Normandy landing, and hailed the contribution of the oil campaign in eroding the power of the Wehr- macht. But while he heralded these two accomplishments, he concluded that they were not in themselves decisive without exploitation by tacti- cal air, and Allied ground and sea forces. With regard to rail transport, Bradley drew a distinction between tactical attacks (designed to destroy military traffic), and strategic attacks (aimed at railway facilities well behind the lines of battle); he concluded that the former was of more significant help to Allied armies, and p