mber penetration and surviv- ability. They pinned their hopes on the self-defending bomber flying to distant targets unescorted: their vision required that sleek, fast, high- altitude bombers would use formation flying techniques, their own armament, and natural possibilities for evasion to reach their targets without prohibitive losses. As Trenchard and the RAF had done, the Americans sought to convince themselves that bombers would “get through.”  Claiming bomber survivability in a future war meant downplaying bomber vulnerability in the last war. While this was a bit awkward, it could be done by asserting that improved tactics and greater bomber speeds would change the equation. The technology of the early 1930s eased the process initially: the development of the B-9, B-10, B-12, and B-17 bombers—all modern combat aircraft with greatly improved speed and range—furthered the idea that fast, well-armed bombers could operate on their own. (Indeed, bomber advocates believed that the the speed differential between bombers and fighters would only in- crease.) Before radar, the assumption that fast bombers would use speed, altitude, and cloud cover to achieve their objectives seemed rather straightforward. Drawing these apparently sound conclusions, American planners deemphasized the requirement for a suitable escort. ‘At the same time, though, one finds in U.S. discussions of bomber vul- nerability an underlying current of subtle but nagging doubt that kept the question of escorts alive. Despite the faith of many in the self- defending capabilities of bombers, some Americans never entirely aban- doned the quest for a suitable escort. This search was ensnared by design and engineering challenges, oversights, and conceptual blind spots—all helping to insure that the doctrine of the self-defending bomber would remain largely intact until wartime experience would rudely challenge its assumptions."  Examples from past military experience (aside from the World War I aviation