attle with nighttime bombing. Ini- tially this concentrated on London but was soon extended to other Brit- ish cities.”  Portal, acutely aware of the limitations of his force, wanted to follow  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 189  Churchill’s advice. The prime minister’s encouragement and the expec- tation of poor winter weather allowed Portal to make some headway against Air Ministry arguments. His views, however, complicated the careful consideration given to civilian casualties and collateral damage in the August 1939 and June 1940 guidance. Though he had no author- ity in political matters, Portal believed that events had justified a direct attack on the “will of the German people to continue the war.” He argued that if heavy material destruction could be “periodically meted out to different towns,” it would produce a generalized fear of bombing that would then facilitate “panic and exaggerated reports,” even follow- ing scattered raids. The debate took on a new complexion as a result of a reshuffling within the RAF hierarchy: Vice Chief of Air Staff (VCAS) Sir Richard Peirse took over the helm of Bomber Command, while Sir Charles Portal went to London to take over as Chief of Air Staff, As CAS-designate and later as CAS (beginning 25 October 1940), Portal could directly shape Air Staff policies. At a meeting to discuss bombing policy, held on 23 October, he advocated a program of heavy incendiary attacks on large, populous areas. He argued that if the air war resolved itself into a contest of wills, the British “will prove them- selves to be tougher than the Germans.” In the end, the meeting pro- duced a compromise: attacks on oil would continue to be the focus of long-term strategy, but Bomber Command would turn more of its atten- tion to assaults on German morale.’ On the night of 16 December 1940, Bomber Command attacked the city of Mannheim in its first de- liberate “area raid” of the war.”  Ideas about what comprised enemy morale, or how to undermine it, h