reases in the numbers of fighters were tied to the development of the German bomber force, but insisted that British strategy had not changed, arguing that “[iJt is not enough to avoid losing a war . . . A boxer cannot win a fight if he does no more than parry his opponent’s blows—he must have an equivalent punch, he must be able to deliver it at the right time and place; and he must be able to keep on punching until his opponent is out.” Though willing to admit that there “had been a tendency in the past to over- state the case that ‘the bomber will always get through,’” the authors nonetheless staunchly upheld the importance of the counteroffensive.*” In November 1938 the Air Staff circulated a memorandum stating that the counteroffensive had not been abandoned or replaced by a defensive orientation.“  But there was a fundamental tension at work that the RAF never fully countenanced. If air defense methods were improving, then very likely they were improving in Germany as well. And if this were so, might it not call into question the entire basis of a strategy that ultimately rested on an aerial offensive? In analyzing this problem long after the fact, R. J. Overy succinctly summed up the dilemma facing the Air Staff: “To admit that there was a defence against the bomber was to question the whole basis upon which an independent air force had been built.”*” To have posed such a question would have been profoundly stressful for the organization, already in crisis. Though planning was put on a much more solid and serious footing than ever before, planners tried nonethe- less to hold on to as many of their foundational ideas as they could. The tendency of the organization was to preserve its fundamental assump- tions whenever possible, and to modify them only when there was little other option but to do so. This precluded a full examination of the tension inherent in simultaneously believing that one could fend off a Luftwaffe attack and also prosecute a successful of