n soldiering in the 1950s and soldier- ing in the interwar years: “[T]he amateur status has disappeared, and  92 CHAPTER 2  today it is no longer an agreeable part-time occupation for a gentleman, but a serious and very wholetime profession.”  Though it would have been the logical place for forward, analytical thinking about air warfare and strategic bombing, the RAF Staff Col- lege often served more as a disseminating station for the accepted orga- nizational viewpoint than it did as a center for critical thinking. The Staff College, which Trenchard had helped establish at Andover in 1921, sought “to draw lessons from World War I to form doctrine.” Among the first courses taught were: “The Nature of War,” “The Em- ployment of Aircraft in War,” “The War of 1914-1918,” and “Air Force Organization.”** But the curriculum did not encourage analysis or innovative thinking. Prospective students were accepted for admission if they passed an entrance exam administered under the direction of the Air Ministry and the Staff College. Answers were expected to conform with RAF established views. Examiners’ comments were published, and these “left no doubt in prospective candidates’ minds that if one wished to do well on the qualifying examination, it was safest to adopt the prevailing Air Force view in matters of doctrine.” Thus, indoctrination began even before students matriculated. Even when candidates lacked knowledge or had difficulty expressing themselves, they were nonethe- less commended for their “offensive spirit.”  Beginning with the college’s third cycle, a starting point for class dis- cussions was the “Notes”—copies of or extracts from original docu- ments related to RFC and RAF policy in World War I. Much of the material served to reinforce for students the dominance of the offensive and the importance of the moral effect of bombing. Because of the small size of the Staff College, both the Commandant and the Chief of Air Staff could be personally acquainted with th