—as well as the V-weapon attacks on British soil. But over time, and in particular as opportunities for more selective targeting opened up, the issue had became more complicated. Still, con- cerns of this nature were certainly tempered by the prevailing crisis at- mosphere surrounding the Ardennes offensive, and the realization that Germany was not yet defeated. New technologies including V-2 rockets and jet-fighters (specifically the Messerschmitt 262) had revealed that the fithrer still held an arsenal of daunting lethality. The first test of an Allied atomic weapon was still months away. On 21 January 1945, USSTAF’s Office of the Director of Intelligence circulated a grim mem- orandum pointing out that Anglo-American armies had lost the initia- tive in the West, and that the Luftwaffe had been able to rebound to a degree “not considered possible by Allied intelligence some eight months ago.” Though it recognized the many ways in which Germany had been seriously weakened, it drew attention to the enemy’s Houdini- like feats of recovery and, specifically, to jet aircraft, U-boats (which then included Schnorkel-equipped submarines), and “secret weapons” that the Reich might employ at any time. It recommended that the Al- lies make every effort possible to deal Germany a “knock-out blow.”"® Finally, the Soviets were becoming increasingly difficult, and the upcom- ing conference at Yalta promised to be tumultuous.  ‘THE COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE: 1945  This uneasy environment dominated the mood in early 1945. On 3 Feb- ruary, USSTAF waged a large-scale attack against the city of Berlin, implementing the remnants of the Thunderclap idea."* The raid was prosecuted in a less grandiose way than had been envisioned in the original proposal, but the fact that it took place at all indicated the lingering intuitive appeal of targeting for psychological effect, and the overwhelming desire to see the war brought to a prompt end. In- deed, USSTAF’s wide-ranging targeting choices