icts over priorities would plague the IF just as they had plagued its predecessors. When the 41st Wing (later the Eighth Brigade) had begun operations in the fall of 1917, Newall frequently diverted it to tactical targets in support of the army; this tendency was reinforced when the German ground offensive in March 1918 placed high demands on the air force.'* Trenchard, in command of the IF, would follow a similar pattern.  At its inception, the IF had only five squadrons of the forty originally envisioned: three-day bombing squadrons (of DeHavilland two-seater biplanes), and two night-bombing squadrons (of FE2bs and large Hand- ley Page bombers). Though the force would later be expanded by four additional night squadrons and one additional day squadron, its total strength would never amount to more than 10 percent of the total Brit- ish air strength in France." Inter-Allied command relationships further complicated the issue. In March 1918 the command of Allied forces had been unified under Field Marshal Ferdinand Foch of France as Supreme Commander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces. It took time, however, to work out an agreement with him regarding the overall direction of the various national forces. He was opposed to the concept of an air force outside of his control; he wanted all available aircraft oriented  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 41  toward the defeat of the German army. Months would pass before the issue would be formally settled.'*  Trenchard became General-Officer-Commanding (GOC) of the IF in early June, stepping into a position for which he felt ambivalence and perhaps even disdain. His discomfort may have been reinforced by a comment from Gen. Maurice Duval of the French Air Service, who in mid-June 1918 pointed out that the IF was something Trenchard never would have approved of a year earlier.’ Trenchard was clearly uneasy with the role that the press and the public were playing in the war; he felt they had forced an organizational change that made