cy in Bristol; frayed nerves in Portsmouth. But these problems, it was discovered, were very often symptomatic of inade- quacies in local aid and relief efforts. And certain behaviors that were viewed as worrisome, like trekking (leaving a town for the safety of the countryside), were actually quite rational, sensible responses to danger. Contrary to prewar prognostications, hospital admissions for neurosis declined, suicide rates fell, and drunkenness declined by half.** The ex- perts had been proved wrong. To their credit, however, they were quite prepared to admit it. Writing in The Lancet in 1941, Dr. Felix Brown explained, “The incidence of genuine psychiatric air-raid casualties has been much lower than might have been expected; the average previously  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 191  healthy civilian has proved remarkably adjustable.” He added that women had not been “a weakening element in the general population”; indeed, his data indicated that women fared better than men.”  The stress of the raids had not exacerbated class or ethnic differences; instead it created a sense of shared purpose and national identity. Many commentators pointed out that citizens took overt pride in traditional British calm in the face of adversity; indeed community spirit developed around the idea that “The British can take it.” As psychologist P. E. Vernon pointed out, “Each newly raided city has wished to emulate the example of London.”® In addition, the analogies drawn between sol- diers and civilians under air attack (which had almost always been drawn to the disadvantage of civilians) were subjected to more rigorous analysis—with surprising results. Civilians subjected to air attack were now seen to possess a number of advantages over soldiers in the same circumstance. Civilians had the enormous psychological advantage of being able, simply, to move out of the way. They had far greater physi- cal (and thus psychological) freedom than soldiers who had no choice but to sta