pport to the Anglo-American armies, and they performed a range of other duties as well. In addition to supporting the ground battle, they assisted on the Italian front, aided preparations for an Allied landing in southern France, and prosecuted attacks on Hitler’s V-weapons sites (Operation Crossbow). Because of the incessant V-1 strikes against England (over 300 V-1s were launched on 15-16 June alone), Crossbow was given high priority over the sum- mer. Indeed, in July and August the Allied air forces sent 16,566 total sorties against V-weapon targets—one quarter of their total tonnage for those months. General Spaatz was frustrated by this since he thought the raids were of doubtful efficacy, but he could do little about it with- out appearing callous to the plight of British civilians."”  Spaatz was interested in doing all he could to promote attacks on the German oil supply. In his eyes, German synthetic oil looked to be the long-sought key node—a genuine bottleneck in the German war ma- chine. There was no ready substitute for it, and the pressure on the Germans increased as Soviet armies moved east, denying the Reich the fuel sources of southeastern Europe. In May, the Fifteenth Air Force followed up on its initial attacks on Ploesti, and the Eighth attacked synthetic oil at a number of sites including Zwickau, Merseburg-Leuna, and Politz."" In a June memorandum to Tedder, Eisenhower drew up a bombing directive, which, though it ranked Crossbow first, added, “[W]hen we have favorable conditions over Germany and when the entire Strategic Air Force cannot be used against Crossbow, we should attack—a. Aircraft industry; b. Oil; c. Ball bearings; d. Vehicular pro- duction.”"”  Portal, too, was sympathetic to Spaatz’s thinking, which was increas- ingly supported by Ultra-based intelligence (derived from breaking en- emy codes) indicating that the Germans were facing critical shortages.’ On 9 July, for instance, a deciphered message from Luftwaffe chief Re- ichsmars