econd, less amenable to em- pirical analysis, could be established only through less direct means— usually interviews and interrogations of factory owners. British survey  58 CHAPTER 1  team members reluctantly admitted that, overall, physical damage had been quite limited. The survey of “Chemical and Munitions Factories,” which included the important Badische Analin und Sodafabrik (BASF) and the Oppau Works (both at Ludwigshafen), and a munitions factory at Kaiserslautern, concluded that while bombing had measurable results at Kaiserslautern, its effect had been minimal in the crucial Ludwigs- hafen works. On the first page of the survey, the authors stated, “Con- sidering the weight of the bombs dropped, the material damage both from a military and destructive point of view has been small... . No signs of any extensive damage or repairs were seen.”?* The authors concluded that bombing had not directly diminished military output. Similar results were reported with respect to blast furnaces.** In a sec- tion of the survey called “General Material Damage,” the authors re- ported, “It is very noteworthy how surprisingly little serious damage has been done throughout four years of war, and on no occasion has a works been forced to close down for more than a week as the direct result of bombing.” An exception to this trend appeared in the report on damage to “industrial centres” (a term used interchangeably with “town”), where investigators claimed optimistically that the material effect of air raids was “considerable.” In the third edition of A.P. 1225, the wording of this statement was changed so that it read, “The mate- rial damage has been great.”*” The evidence advanced to support the claim (in the original survey) included damage to buildings and num- bers of persons killed or injured.  In general, though, the survey team stressed the moral effect (a term encompassing the “indirect effects”) of bombing far more than its mate- rial effect. In the report on blast fu