uperior to the bombers they were to protect, and ranges equal to them.* In Air Warfare, Wil- liam Sherman made the case for fighter escorts. He argued that while pursuit might not remain continually with bombers, they should ar- range to be with bombers during crucial phases of missions." But lim- ited fighter range vexed the problem of providing escorts for bombers of ever-increasing range and speed. The authors of the 1926 Manual pro- posed that bombers be made as fast as possible to increase their chances of avoiding hostile interception." In addition, they devoted consider- able space to particular types of self-defensive formations for bombers.  In 1925 and 1926 the Air Service had undertaken tests of airplane performance with auxiliary, droppable tanks. These revealed that the extra weight did not seriously affect the general flying characteristics of the aircraft." Unfortunately, despite the feasibility of external tanks to increase range, they were not immediately embraced by the Air Corps for military use. Concern focused on the fire hazard posed by the tanks, and the possible reduction in performance caused by their weight and increased drag. Droppable tanks were discussed at ACTS beginning in 1929, but the “Pursuit” manual concluded that cruising speeds of bombers and fighters differed so much that an escort group would not be able to support bombers all the way to and from their targets. It recommended using two escort groups: one for the outbound phase and one for the return trip. A conference of Air Corps leaders, held at Lang- ley Field in April 1929, discussed the topic of escorts but reached no consensus.'"”  Texts used at ACTS in the 1930s reflected both the tensions sur- rounding the question of bomber survivability, and the increasing lean toward the idea that they could defend themselves. The 1930 “Bom- bardment” text readily acknowledged that pursuit had taken a toll on  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 167  daytime bombing in World War I, forci