y within the terms of his directive to attack oil installations—indeed, he felt such attacks were essential to bring German fighters into the skies in large numbers. Eisenhower con- curred, and on 19 April gave Spaatz permission to attack oil during the next two visual bombing opportunities. The results were promising enough to sustain Eisenhower’s interest and thereby open the door for increased activity against the target set.””  In a further modification of the 25 March decision, Allied strategic bombers attacked bridges over the Seine and Meuse Rivers prior to D-day (and the Loire bridges thereafter). This came about as a result of renewed debate over the utility of bridge attacks in the Mediterranean, and, in particular, of new information from General Eaker’s office indi- cating that bridge attacks in Italy’s Po Valley had added to the effective- ness of interdiction efforts there. The advocates of bridge bombing would later stress its significance for the success of Overlord and the Normandy campaign.”  By the time the D-day landing took place, strategic bombers had helped insure its success. The winter-spring battle for command of the skies meant that the Luftwaffe had a compromised ability to interfere  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 237  with the landing and inhibit the progress of Allied ground troops there- after. Indeed, the Luftwaffe mounted only 100 sorties on the first day of the invasion, and only 175 ineffectual sorties on the night of 6-7 June. A “decisive battle” over the beachhead, which some planners had antic- ipated, was unnecessary.” The attacks on French transportation did much to undermine the Germans’ ability to take advantage of interior lines of communication on the continent. After the landing, strategic bombers continued to provide tactical support to the Anglo-American armies, and they performed a range of other duties as well. In addition to supporting the ground battle, they assisted on the Italian front, aided preparations for an Allie