.’ On the night of 16 December 1940, Bomber Command attacked the city of Mannheim in its first de- liberate “area raid” of the war.”  Ideas about what comprised enemy morale, or how to undermine it, however, remained muddled at best. Britain’s domestic experience re- flected this. The government, recognizing the crucial role of public sup- port and steadfastness in war, had created a Ministry of Information to handle government propaganda and sustain homefront morale. But more than two years passed before its officials “made any attempt to define what it was they were charged with sustaining.” Lacking a clear sense of its objective, the Ministry floundered about, becoming the object of considerable criticism and ridicule in the early years of the war. Even as they worked out the requirements for implementing air raid policies and emergency medical procedures, they struggled with the more ethereal aspects of preserving the public will to fight. Despite the government’s grave fears that breakdown on the homefront would mean defeat in war, its efforts to think through and shape the social and psychological aspects of the problem were flailing and largely irrel- evant. If the elusiveness of the term “morale” had been an asset to Trenchard, it was a problem for those recruited to serve in the Ministry of Information.  190 CHAPTER 4  Much to the relief of officials, the British homefront proved robust during the battle of Britain and the “blitz” against British cities (partic- ularly London) that followed for six months afterward. As we saw in chapter 2, there had been no clear consensus on how the British public might fare in air war, but many official prognostications (often reflect- ing a problematical analysis of the World War I experience) had been alarmist and bleak. In the 1930s predictions offered up by many profes- sionals (including doctors, psychologists, and social scientists) were grim: panic, social upheaval, radical increases in mental illness and emotional