ated air raid alarms. In this they saw important indirect effects (a major component of the phrase “moral effects”): widespread inefficiencies and loss of production caused by the threat of imminent bombardment by small numbers of aircraft. This perception had been reinforced by German raids on Britain, when small contingents of zep- pelins and bombers had imposed disruption and delay—in addition to physical damage—during the early raids in particular. This apparently large payoff for a relatively small investment seemed to argue strongly in favor of an offensive stance; indeed, fearing this payoff to Germany, the British government had resisted instituting air raid alarms to warn of potential attacks. Similarly, in the aftermath of the 1917 Gotha raids, members of the government had been highly exercised by the need to recall fighters from the western front to meet public demands for im- proved protection. Those demands had been unsettling to a government already concerned by labor unrest and the prospect of political up- heaval stemming from the many dislocations of a long and unpreceden- tedly costly war. Policymakers were equally concerned by the large numbers of personnel and material ultimately devoted to coping with the German Gotha / Giant threat—a threat very modest in terms of the numbers involved. Indeed, policymakers understood that a driving mo- tive for the German air offensive had been to force the British into a defensive stance that would drain resources from the fighting front.’* Extrapolating, Trenchard argued that the side willing to prosecute a sustained and relentless offensive would eventually “throw” its enemy into a defensive stance characterized by a deeper and deeper commit- ment to homefront industrial and civil protection.  These themes began to appear with regularity in official writings. In a paper written for the newly opened RAF Staff College (and published by that body in 1923), Wing Commander J.E.A. Baldwin focused on the idea that