ans of the World War II bombing campaign summed up this momen- tum perceptively: “The Air Corps after 1935 was characterized not so much by its concern to change the basic organization of national de- fense as by a purpose to find in the mission assigned to the GHQ Air Force the basis for an ambitious program of bomber development. The Army airman thereafter was, above all else, an advocate of the big bomber, and around the potentialities of that type of plane he built his most cherished hopes.””  ENTHUSIASTS, ADVOCATES, ARMS CONTROLLERS, AND DEBUNKERS: THE PUBLIC DEBATE IN THE UNITED STATES  As in Britain, American interwar conceptions of future aerial conflict were influenced by general assumptions and concerns about the impact of modernity and urbanization, and the intricate, interlocking nature of modern economies and societies. These issues remained less immediate for Americans than for Britons, but common assumptions, ideas, and fears helped to establish a shared foundation. And, as in Britain, the military debate over the future of air warfare could hardly occur in isolation from the public debate.  Belief in the exploitable vulnerabilities of urban areas was not r stricted to Europe. By the last decades of the nineteenth century, Ame: cans had largely lost confidence in the notion that their individual com- munities could continue to be autonomous and self-sufficient. The old order was increasingly being supplanted by governmental bureauc- racies, centralized authority, and the regulative hierarchies of urban-in- dustrial life. Cities were, for many, “monolithic in their strangeness, centers of alien ways and murky power,” displacing old notions of self- sufficiency by a new dependence on centralized bureaucracies. This change was exacerbated by the inflow of immigrants (nearly nine mil- lion between 1900 and 1910), and by labor unrest that was frequently interpreted as a harbinger of mass sedition or political revolution.”  During the interwar years Washing