mously from the resources and assistance made available to me by the staffs of the Air Historical Branch, RAF (UK), the Office of Air Force History (USA), the Air Force Historical Research Center (USA), the RAF Museum (UK), the National Air and Space Museum (USA), the National Defence Headquarters (Canada), the Library of Congress (USA), the Public Record Office  vii ACKNOWLEDGMENTS  (UK), the National Archives and Records Administration (USA), the National Library of Canada, the U.S. Army War College Library, and the Christ Church Library, Oxford. Special thanks go to Alec Douglas and Stephen J. Harris of the National Defence Headquarters, and Peter Elliott of the RAF Museum. I owe, as well, many thanks to the out- standing staff of Perkins Library at Duke University, especially Ken Ber- ger and Margaret Brill. I thank Marc Trachtenberg and Chuck Myers for their interest in my work; I thank Linda Truilo, Bill Laznovsky, and Sylvia Coates for their help in transforming a manuscript into a book.  It is hard for me to imagine writing this book without the generous assistance and guidance of Sebastian Cox, the current head of the Air Historical Branch, RAF, who helped with the research process, made sure that I had ready access to key materials, and offered expert criti- cism all along the way. The voice in my ear these many years, he made this a better book than it otherwise would have been. Hays Parks very generously shared research materials with me, offered advice, support, and friendship—and cheered me on generally. John Ferris and Eliot Co- hen provided invaluable commentary on the manuscript while it was still a dissertation; I am indebted to them for their many helpful insights and suggestions. Vincent Orange taught me to think in new ways, and became a good friend in the process. The late Edward Thomas was a source of lasting inspiration to me.  George K. Williams, whose knowledge of this topic is both broad and deep, very generously read every word of the man