n: “Is the independent mission of the air force sufficiently stressed or is the entire course based on the thought that the sole mission of the Air Service is to assist the advance of the Ground Force?”*  The status of the Air Service was one of the most continuously de- bated topics in Washington in the 1920s. It was addressed repeatedly by an array of boards and commissions, most of them populated by distin- guished individuals opposed to change.” The Air Service’s weak institu- tional standing caused airmen to look outward, to Congress and to the public, for support. Congress was not without its self-proclaimed aerial visionaries: between 1913 and 1920 it had put forward eight bills pro- posing an independent air force. In 1919 both Sen. Harry New of Indi- ana and Rep. Charles Curry of California called for a separate Depart- ment of Aeronautics. Neither these nor a subsequent bill by New made any real progress: the War Department was unsympathetic and the Naval lobby used its considerable power to preserve the status quo. Those in the highest leadership positions in the Air Service, including Chief of Air Service Gen. Charles Menoher, had achieved their status in part by accepting army constraints; they were not inclined to make a play for early independence. Naturally, this circumscribed the activities of more junior officers who took a different view of things.”*  Most Air Service officers perceived that the forces arrayed against them were too great to be overcome immediately. Alternatively, they worked to bring about change incrementally.’ But one prominent offi-  136 CHAPTER 3  cer was entirely unprepared to move at a slow pace: Gen. William (“Billy”) Mitchell single-handedly campaigned for Air Service indepen- dence. Disdainfully referring to the Army General Staff as the “long- bowmen,” he challenged the auxiliary status of the Air Service, running a “bone-crushing interference” for the rest of the organization. Ulti- mately his tactics left a mixed legac