the debate through a memorandum to Churchill, which was then forwarded to the Chiefs of Staff. Using his peculiar mathematics to support the notion that no bomb is wasted on a city, he proclaimed that “ninety-nine per- cent of the bombs dropped on cities would contribute directly to the destruction of German morale.” Resurrecting his own views about the relentless and incessant offensive, he argued further that the attacks should be made every night, even if only one bomber could be sent over. Since British aircrew casualties would be heavy (he postulated 70 per- cent of the front line in a month), 400 to 500 percent of the reserves would be necessary, and aircraft production would have to receive top  194 CHAPTER 4  priority.” In early June, Trenchard offered his views at a meeting held by Portal to discuss bombing policy. He argued exactly what he had argued in 1918 and 1928, pointing out that everything turned on “the difference between the German and British mentality.” He said that re- ports from a wide variety of sources indicated that, in contrast to the British populace, the German civil population stood up “very badly” to the strain of repeated bombing attacks. Undermining German morale, he argued, ought to be Bomber Command’s primary aim; he recom- mended repeated attacks designed to force the population into air raid shelters, into a state of demoralization, and ultimately into a defensive stance from which they would not recover.” The former CAS argued that the weakening of morale could have an important effect on indus- trial ouput: “damage to essential services caused by indiscriminate bombing in a town was far greater than that caused by the aimed bombing of factories.” Trenchard asserted that the destructive synergy of these two effects should be exploited since the Germans were more susceptible than the British. He insisted that “no town of any size should consider itself safe,” and specified that morale raids should be held at frequent intervals to