c- curately reembraced) arguments about the power of the moral effect of bombing. As elements of the German war economy came to appear more robust than expected, German morale increasingly seemed like the most promising target. Hopes and expectations converged and, for a time at least, influenced interpretations of progress.  Sir Arthur Harris brought his own ideas about strategic bombing to the table: neither purely Trenchardian nor purely Tivertonian, his per- spective combined elements of both. He assumed that by hitting hard at German cities—the nation’s nerve and production centers—he could do enough damage and cause enough disruption and demoralization to bring his enemy to its knees. But as the war continued, British planners struggled increasingly to find sufficient evidence that Harris’s approach was sound. Portal, who had done the most to move the British toward city bombing, now became the most outspoken advocate for a revised strategy that would refocus British efforts on key elements of the Ger- man war economy. In particular he wanted to follow Spaatz’s lead and prioritize oil strikes whenever weather permitted. Harris, however, was too firmly entrenched in his beliefs and too personally invested in Bomber Command’s efforts to be able to make the shift readily or gracefully.  The Americans for their part held to their search for the most impor- tant bottlenecks, hoping that their destruction might unravel the Ger- man war economy. Their resistance to joining the British nighttime of- fensive and Spaatz’s determination to strike at German oil supplies reflected this commitment to the American concept of a military- industrial holy grail. But mounting frustration with weather and the length of the war provoked the Americans to try other approaches as well. By the winter of 1944-45 they targeted just about everything they could think of, hoping to hit upon some means of affecting enemy be- havior, directly or indirectly. While claiming adherence to “preci