e of the logic of Pointblank, but he, like Churchill, was in- trigued nonetheless by the promise of a major campaign against Berlin.*  Still flush with expectation, Harris wrote to the Air Ministry on 7 December 1943, claiming that it would be possible for his Lancasters singlehandedly to bring about a German surrender, Portraying his prog- ress in acres destroyed, Harris argued that surrender could be compelled “by the destruction of between 40% and 50% of the principal German towns.” This, he believed, could be accomplished by 1 April 1944 pro- vided that Lancaster production was maintained, that navigational aids were delivered on schedule, and that the bomber offensive be given un- challenged priority.” The goals of the Berlin campaign would be to un- dermine worker morale (by killing the workers, to the greatest extent possible) and to wreak havoc with industry and communications in the Nazi capital.  Berlin accounted for 8 percent of Germany’s total industrial output, and no less than 40 percent of the German electronics industry. But much of this industry was hard to find—located in small, undistin- guished buildings. And because the city had many broad avenues and generally nontimber construction, it was less susceptible to fire than many other German cities. Finally, Harris and others underestimated the degree to which the Germans would find technological counter- measures to British initiatives in the radar and radio wars. The Ger- mans, having sensed that Berlin would be Bomber Command’s next focus, had made the capital the most well-defended place in the Reich.”  As the long winter campaign was to prove, Harris had set his hopes too high with respect to Berlin: over time, rates of damage diminished  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 231  while bomber losses continued to rise. Some 9,000 sorties were flown, but they brought Britain no closer to victory. There was no obvious decline in the war economy, and no crack in morale. In the meantime, German night fighters