of a school system. In October 1919 the Director of Air Service sought permission to establish an “Army Air Service School of Application” at Langley Field, Virginia, to “develop and standardize the instruction and training of officers in the tactics and techniques of the Air Service.”® In July 1920 Maj. Thomas DeWitt Milling (assisted by Sherman) oversaw the organization of the Air Service Field Officers’ School (renamed the Air Service Tactical School in 1922 and then the Air Corps Tactical School [ACTS] in 1926). The curriculum included pursuit, observation, bombardment, and attack aviation; combined air tactics; aeronautical engineering; navigation and meteorology; and ar- mament." Course texts consisted of an ad hoc and occasionally incon- sistent collection of items. In its fledgling years the school did not in general stray too far from the prescribed line of policy handed down from the General Staff, but faculty sometimes dwelt at length on theo- ries of independent air operations.  134 CHAPTER 3  The 1922 “Air Tactics” text, written by Milling, paid lip service to the official constraints while it offered insights into broader thinking among airmen. It revealed both the influence of the British as well as American points of divergence from British theory. Moving beyond army conceptualizations, Milling divided the work of the Air Service into the “Air Service,” which consisted of observation in cooperation with the infantry, and the “Air Force,” made up of the offensive ele- ments of pursuit, attack, and bombardment aviation. He argued un- equivocally that pursuit was the “backbone of the Air Forces”: the means by which it undertakes its “first duty” to gain and hold control of the air."* Indeed, in the years right after the war, the Americans de- voted considerable attention to the development of pursuit (fighter) tac- tics and aircraft for specialized missions.’ Milling pointed out that day bombardment had increasingly fallen victim to hostile pursuit, and