"* Arnold summed up his initial views on Spain: “A few first class planes and heterogeneous legionnaire pilots operating under loose control can never be called an air force and no true lessons can be drawn therefrom. We cannot assume that air experiences in Spain are  172 CHAPTER 3  equally applicable to ourselves or to any first class air power. That is a civil war of loosely integrated and poorly armed opponents.”"” He was equally dismissive of the war in China, stating, “The air picture any observer sees in China will be out of focus unless it be remembered that a nation with an air force is opposing one without any worthy of that name.”"*  Readers of the Air Corps Newsletter may have been reassured by their April 1938 issue containing a translated article by Lt. Col. Emilio Canevari, an Italian, titled “Forecasts from the War in Spain.” Colonel Canevari noted, “Great care is necessary in drawing conclusions from the use of aircraft in this civil war and applying them unhesitatingly to a possible European war.” He pointed out that the air forces involved had “constituted themselves hesitatingly and gradually” and only in small scale. Therefore, “it is ... reasonable to assume that the situation of aerial warfare in a European struggle would differ greatly from what it is today in Spain. In the case of a large war, aerial warfare would start with great masses of modern aircraft in full readiness on both sides, well armed and supplied with munitions, directed by perfectly trained pilots accustomed to act in concert.”"”  The 1941 book Winged Warfare, again coauthored by General Ar- nold and Colonel Eaker, expressed retrospective views that were not substantially different from those they had articulated in the late 1930s. They still qualified the “lessons” from Ethiopia, China, and Spain, claiming that they were derived from wars that differed significantly from any future war between “first class powers.” The only targets in Ethiopia, they explained, were troop co