esponse, and—particularly in the case of national institutions within democracies—it sets up public expectations about the future.  My approach is premised as well on the assumption that fundamental ideas are not formed in a vacuum, but rather in a specific temporal context. In order to understand how the British and American air forces became interested in strategic bombing and formed expectations about it, we must understand the context in which the organizations’ members lived and worked, and the early experiences that helped mold their be- liefs and predilections. This means beginning the story early in the cen- tury, when initial conceptions about aircraft in war were being articu- lated in response to the long-anticipated arrival of heavier-than-air flight. A body of ideas about long-range aerial bombing began to take shape, based on assumptions about and perceptions of the behavior of modern societies. I argue that these helped determine how World War I aerial experience of aerial bombing was interpreted and, in turn, af- fected subsequent thinking and planning. While much of the strategic bombing literature has tended to overlook or minimize the World War I experience, I argue that it played an important role in determining what came afterward.  A fundamental assertion that became central to Anglo-American thinking about long-range bombing was that modern, complex, urban- based societies are fragile, interdependent, and therefore peculiarly vul- nerable to disruption through aerial bombing. This idea took slightly different but essentially overlapping forms in Britain and the United States. It involved not only political and military concerns about the  8 INTRODUCTION  steadfastness and political reliability of civilians (particularly urban dwellers) in modern, increasingly “total,” war, but also concerns about the structure of modern economies and their susceptibility to disrup- tion. This assumption derived from a particular historical context: the anxieti