Command’s ability to make good on its claims and to turn them strongly to Britain’s advantage. By 1941, though, those claims seemed empty. What had happened? And what would the future hold?  Just over two months later the United States, attacked at Pearl Har- bor and drawn into the global conflagration, would also turn to strate- gic bombing. But the Americans, too, would encounter vast problems as they tried to fight the war from high altitude. Not only did American bombers fail to achieve a prompt decision, but, in 1942-43, they seemed to have little impact on the enemy. Indeed, by late 1943 the Anglo-American “Combined Bomber Offensive” (CBO) was all but grounded by the strength of German defenses. Allied air planners scrambled for a solution, eventually finding their way to tactical changes that salvaged the air offensive. By 1944 both the numbers and capabilities of Anglo-American bombers had increased dramatically, and a campaign of increasing fury and intensity would, by 1945, lay waste to German and Japanese cities and industry in an unprecedented campaign of death and destruction that has been hotly debated ever since.  The Churchill-Portal debate of September 1941—a short, sharp ex- change between two men otherwise trying to cooperate in a larger, more  INTRODUCTION 3  consequential battle—evokes the dramatic history of strategic bombing in the Second World War. Controversy and emotional intensity have always surrounded the very concept of long-range or “strategic” bomb- ing. The concept implies that aircraft carrying bombs to an enemy’s “vital centers” can undermine its ability and will to fight. The idea is simple enough, yet few other claims about military power have pro- voked so many debates, or aroused so much intensity of feeling, both inside and outside the military. Time has neither stilled the controversy nor muted the arguments, which have recently focused on the 1991 Gulf War and the 1999 bombing of Kosovo. As a new century begins, the issue re