atever of any kind of panic, but there undoubtedly was a certain feeling of dismay. This was immediately followed by a deep and universal anger that such attacks should be made upon our defenceless women and children.” Accounts by Members of Parlia- ment were similar. In a debate held on 16 February 1916, M.P. Ronald McNeill, whose constituency had recently been bombed, argued em- phatically, “I want to avoid the language of exaggeration because if I were to speak as if those people were nervous or panicky or frightened in consequence of what they have been subjected to I should be guilty of mostly grossly misrepresenting them.” He insisted that the attacks had merely made them “set their teeth” in determination to prosecute the  24 CHAPTER 1  war harder. In the course of the same debate, Cecil Harmsworth argued, “There is only one chance of a panic arising in this country, and that would emerge from a mistrust of the authorities responsible for the air defences of the country. At present, as every member of this House knows, there is no panic in any part of the country.” He went on to say, though, that among the many bombing victims he had visited, there was “uneasiness” and “disappointment with the measures that have been taken hitherto to meet this very great danger.” Mr. Evelyn Cecil repre- senting the Midlands, asserted, “I am quite convinced that, while there is no panic, there is a very strong feeling of want of confidence in the general management. What we want is vigour, guidance, courage and determination.”*  Indeed, the strength of public feeling about the inadequacy of British defenses accounted for the election of an otherwise unlikely Member of Parliament, Noel Pemberton Billing. Leaving the RNAS to run for polit- ical office, the audacious Pemberton Billing won success on a single platform: changing the government's policy on home air defense. He energetically fulfilled his public mandate, making himself “almost a daily pest” in the House of Commons a