rtation, and food.’ For the remainder of the war, the COA strove to put American target planning on as sound a foundation as possible. Nonetheless, hunches and best guesses some- times had to substitute for facts. Target planning remained a very imper- fect science. And planners erred when they assumed that the industrial systems of highly developed states would be essentially similar; informa-  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 211  tion, plans, and blueprints from U.S. plants were not always the useful mirror-images that analysts assumed them to be. And, though the COA was comprised of knowledgeable personnel, it lacked industrial engi- neers and managers among its ranks."  The early U.S. raids, which had begun with an attack on marshalling yards at Rouen, France, on 17 August, probed only the fringes of Euro- pean airspace. Wishing to get the force off to a good start, American commanders insured that the raids were flown in good weather condi- tions and with heavy fighter escort. Even so, bombers were often sub- jected to intense German fighter attacks. For instance, the USAAF mission flown on 2 October, which included 156 aircraft, saw 3 B-17s lost and 36 damaged, and 1 B-24 lost and 10 damaged. U.S. crews claimed high numbers of kills against German fighters, but these were questioned by the British and subsequently shown to be greatly exaggerated.“  Although subsequent reconnaissance often belied claims of accuracy and extent of damage, the American bomber crews appeared at first to be hitting their objectives. Indeed, General Eaker was so encouraged that he predicted that 40 percent of bombs might fall regularly within 500 yards of the aiming point, so that adequate numbers of American bombers might shut down German aircraft factories and submarine ac- tivities in a matter of months. The British, more guarded in their as- sessments, pointed out the orchestrated quality of these early raids. A further source of Anglo-American frustration was the slow build-up o