. . hard to remain sane.” American political leaders reacted with anger and outrage at the aerial attacks that gripped the attention of the world in the 1930s, often responding in rhetoric that echoed the stigma Newton Baker had attached to strategic bombing. But it was not clear whether declarations of outrage and efforts to stigmatize the air attacks would have any chance of reducing their future occurrence in war. And international law seemed a thin reed on which to rest much hope. Informed American readers would have been aware of the diffi- culties of successfully applying international rules of warfare—such as they were—to aerial bombing. In a 1937 essay for The New Republic, Jonathan Mitchell offered a clear overview of the problems in this re- gard, explaining that the Hague Rules, drafted in 1922-23, foundered on definitions of what constituted a legitimate military target in an age of total war. The rules, he pointed out, “still remain unratified, and many American experts believe them too vague to be of practical impor- tance.”'” If Americans were not quite sure of what kind of threat for- eign air forces posed to their shores, they realized that modern war- fighting forces would now include aircraft engaged in a daunting range of activities.  ‘THE AIR CORPS TACTICAL SCHOOL: THE EVOLUTION OF THOUGHT IN THE 1930s  In July 1931 the Air Corps Tactical School moved from Langley, Vir- ginia, to Maxwell Field, Alabama. The relocation proved a fortuitous one as the school prospered through the remainder of the decade. The Works Progress Administration built base housing, garages, and a vari- ety of other needed structures." While the physical plant of the school  154 CHAPTER 3  expanded, so too did the body of thought applied to the potential role of bomber aircraft in war. ACTS personnel deliberately sought to create at Maxwell a center where air force ideas would be amassed, evaluated, and disseminated. Explaining this initiative, ACTS Commandant Lt. Col. John