rt Overlord, Eisenhower chose the plan calling for attacks on the French and Belgian railway system as a means of inhibi- ting the movement of German supplies and soldiers in the Normandy region, thereby constraining the enemy’s ability to reinforce the front and wage a war of maneuver.  The decision, however, was not taken without considerable debate among all parties about whether strikes against railways would have major and direct military effects. Spaatz made his case for oil, which was considered seriously by the parties present.” In the end Eisenhower and Tedder concluded that neither area bombing nor oil strikes prom- ised an immediate impact on the ground battle. They reasoned that even if the railway plan offered only a limited hope in this regard, it would  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 235  be worth the effort.” Once a conclusion was arrived at, though, Eisen- hower and Tedder still had to cope with concerns expressed by both Spaatz and Churchill regarding French civilian casualties likely to be caused by the transportation plan. The prospect of French deaths alarmed Churchill and caused him to refrain from supporting the plan, which he feared might “smear the good name of the Royal Air Force across the world.” Since the Combined Chiefs of Staff backed Eisen- hower, the prime minister felt he had but one route of appeal: Roose- velt. But FDR’s argument ultimately ended the matter. He said simply, “I am not prepared to impose from this distance any restriction on military action by the responsible commanders that in their opinion might militate against the success of ‘Overlord’ or cause additional loss of life to our Allied forces of invasion.””' Sensitive to the prospect of killing friendly civilians, Spaatz would try to insure that his forces used visual sighting and small bomb groups as often as possible. Even with such precautions, however, about one hundred French civilians died in each of the American attacks waged on rail yards in the prein- vasion cam