, briefer, and more effective way than had been the case during the disillusioning and dis- tasteful 1917-18 ground war in Europe. Even though U.S. military spending expanded across the board, it was easiest to get congressional approval for aircraft. Newspapers and journals made the case for air- planes instead of ground troops, and the public readily accepted it.”  But with expansion (and despite good intentions), military and indus- trial efforts sometimes went in circles. British air officers in the United States frequently had their patience tried as they waited for aircraft that did not materialize. Naturally the British wanted priority; just as natu- rally, the Americans sought to avoid gutting their own programs.” Sir  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 205  John Slessor, sent to the United States in the autumn of 1940 to explain British Air Staff plans for expansion, committed his impressions to paper some months later: when the United States woke up to the danger of war, “all three services . . . immediately aimed for the moon and set about building up the most immense forces that they could think of, without any proper coordination or examination of what their military policy should be and what forces they required to implement it.” Ser- vice rivalries in America concerned Slessor, as did the absence of a workable chiefs of staff system: “It is one of the most unfortunate as- pects of Service policy in the United States that the Army and Navy really seem to hate each other more than they do the Germans.”  In September 1941, Sir Arthur Harris, then with the RAF Delegation to the United States, had sent an acerbic letter back to London (to VCAS Air Chief Marshal Sir Wilfrid Freeman) complaining about army and air force leadership in the United States: “[Hap] Arnold and [George] Marshall are in the position of having expended, or rather accepted, vast sums of money for the production of Forces which exist only on paper or in their own rather muddled minds. They