of the B-29 bomber. In April 1943 the journal did, however, run a short news brief pointing out that two respected British papers (The New Statesman and The Tri- bune) had printed stories indicating that American bombing was killing innocent civilians. Disinclined to give credence to the British view, which conflicted with their own interpretation of events, the editors suggested that the newspapers had been “misled.” Arguing that more information was needed, the editors added, “The impression among Americans has been that high level bombings from our planes is not wildly inaccurate, as these papers claim.”"”  Unsurprisingly, the AP story generated a great flurry of uncomfort- able activity inside the USAAE™* Arnold requested an immediate clari- fication of USSTAF targeting policy—perhaps ironic in light of his on-  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 259  going interest in the war-weary bomber project. Maj. Gen. Frederick Anderson responded for Spaatz, who was then in the Mediterranean. He argued that nothing in American policy or practice had changed. USAAF representatives in Washington—attempting hurriedly to rectify the situation—held a press conference on 21 February, which pointed out that while the story was sent to newspapers in good faith, it was based on a grave misunderstanding and did not reflect the policy of either Supreme Allied Headquarters in Europe, nor the Headquarters of the Army Air Forces."” The spokesman explained that American airmen had concluded that indiscriminate attacks were “wasteful and ineffec- tive” and thus such attacks were passed over in favor of the policy of “precision bombing of selected military targets.” He concluded by em- phatically assuring the gathered press that “we have never done deliber- ate terror bombing . . . we are not doing it now . . . we will not do it.”""  General Marshall and Secretary of War Henry Stimson explained that the Dresden raid had been undertaken at Russian request. This was not technically correct because w