g German synthetic oil."” Though dramatic in terms of effort expended, Big Week in itself was not a fatal blow; German muni- tions output would continue to rise through July, and in the autumn a new and formidable threat would emerge in the form of German fighter jets. Nonetheless, Big Week was encouraging at the time since it indi-  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 233  cated that the Allies could make some headway through concentrated effort.  In early February the senior air force commanders in Europe had been formally notified that the Allied strategic and tactical air forces would be directed toward the completion of tasks designed to facilitate and support the Allied landing on the continent (Operation Overlord) and “to deal with the subsequent activities of the enemy.” A proposed key mission, along with securing air superiority, would be to “paralyse the railways from western Germany to the assault area to such an ex- tent that major reinforcement by rail would be virtually impossible.” The Anglo-American strategic air forces would be placed at the disposal of Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force (SHAEF) under the guidance of the Supreme Allied Commander in Europe, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, and his deputy, Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Tedder. The latter, an architect of the railway plan, was influenced by investigations into the effects of air attack on the railway network in Sicily and southern Italy, led by civilian advisor Solly Zuckerman, and completed at the end of 1943."  Both Spaatz and Harris had earlier hoped that strategic bombing might obviate the need for a major Allied amphibious landing but, in light of the difficulties faced by the Combined Bomber Offensive (CBO) in 1943, they had recognized that such a landing would go ahead, and that their forces would be called upon to play a direct role. Thus, they both sought to shape the nature of that role. On 13 January 1944, Harris had written a memorandum explaining that the heavy bomber had evol