ected by the results—would insure that evaluations of it would be contentious and contested. Lives had been lost, large sums had been invested, and national and individual reputations had been put on the line. Neither the American bombing survey nor the more limited British evaluation would fully answer critics’ questions or estab- lish unchallenged guidance for future air campaigns. Indeed, the British survey would remain a rather obscure document, narrowly circulated and, until recently, available only in a few archives.”*  The British were interested from the outset in a joint survey to assess the Combined Bomber Offensive. But the Americans, particularly Gen- eral Spaatz, resisted this vigorously. In the spring of 1944, when the first suggestions for a survey were circulated in USAAF circles, Spaatz in- sisted on a wholly American effort. He put forward some official and bureaucratic reasons for avoiding a joint assessment, and these had their own validity. But they were largely cover for Spaatz’s primary con- cern: that the USAAF and RAF efforts would end up merged in the public mind, with deleterious consequences for the USAAF. The ques- tion was not settled until late in the summer, when American delays finally convinced the British that a joint survey was not a live option.  The American survey got underway formally in the autumn of 1944 when General Arnold inquired if Franklin D’Olier, the president of the Prudential Insurance Company of America, would be willing to serve as the chairman of a comprehensive survey of the effects of strategic bomb- ing by the USAAE, D’Olier accepted, ultimately heading up an organiza- tion of some 350 officers, 500 enlisted men, and 300 civilians—many of them highly trained economists, managers, and businessmen. Those in key posts, besides D’Olier, included Henry Alexander (vice-chairman), George Ball, Paul Nitze, Theodore Wright, Fred Searls, and John Ken- neth Galbraith. Their job was to produce an independent, objective re