nited States about the ability of the bomber always to “get through,” subtly undermining the certainty with which the self-defending bomber theory was asserted.  Several branches of the U.S. Army took an attentive interest in the Spanish civil war, and many of the articles produced in their profes- sional journals cast doubt on the notion that strategic bombing would be decisive in the next war: bombed civilian populations had quickly learned to adapt, and various types of defenses had thwarted the notion that the bomber would “always get through.” The Air Corps Tactical School, however, seemed strangely indifferent to the event: in 1937-38, only one lecture was offered at ACTS on the Spanish civil war.* The official historians of the American air war in World War II would later point out that: “The U.S. Army Air Corps . . . saw nothing in the aerial warfare in Spain or in China to suggest the advisability of change in its own doctrines. In both conflicts, the combatants employed relatively small numbers of aircraft, and the bomber appeared to be regarded chiefly as a means of intensifying artillery fire and of increasing its range.”  In a chapter for a book titled This Flying Game, written with Col. Ira Eaker during the war in Spain, Gen. Hap Arnold explained that aircraft in the Spanish war had been used principally to attack troops and to assist infantry assaults and offensives. Drawing a distinction between these “air cooperation missions” and “air force missions” (which he held to include attacks on manufacturing establishments, rail centers, and populated areas), he argued that the latter had been little practiced in Spain. Consequently, parallels between the war in Spain and any Eu- ropean war in which the United States might become involved were limited at best."* Arnold summed up his initial views on Spain: “A few first class planes and heterogeneous legionnaire pilots operating under loose control can never be called an air force and no true lessons can be