my were in full gear. The fiihrer, they presumed, had organized his industrial war machine in an efficient, regimented way. But they presumed, too, that it was not up to the demands of a long war—it would collapse under sustained pressure. In September 1940 deliberations, the Chiefs of Staff concluded that if Britain maintained economic pressure on Germany, its deficiencies in oil, food, and textiles “may prove disastrous” by 1941. In the same month the MEW speculated that since the German econ- omy was more brittle than in the First World War, “an acute shortage of oil or a tie-up of the transport system might cause a breakdown of the closely-knit Nazi system.” Earlier, in a public speech of 18 June, Churchill had reminded his countrymen that in 1918 their terrible Ger- man foe had “quite suddenly, quite unexpectedly . . . collapsed before us.”  If these views had sustained the hopes of nervous policymakers in their darkest days, they also set up exaggerated expectations for Bomber Command. Pressuring the German war economy would prove far harder than planners expected. In the meantime, urgent issues dic- tated immediate priorities: Bomber Command was called upon to aid in the battle of Britain by attacking German airframe assembly factories, aluminum plants, air fields, and stores. In addition, Bomber Command was told it must help forestall a military attack from the sea; accord- ingly, German ports and shipping were to receive renewed attention. The net result was that the force divided its attention in multiple direc- tions, and the effect was minimal. For instance, in return for 1,097 sorties against airfields (and a loss of sixty-one aircraft), Bomber Com- mand destroyed five German planes on the ground and damaged twelve. Damage to airfields was hard to assess, but, as the official historian of the battle of Britain explained dryly, it “seems to have caused the enemy no serious embarrassment.”  Though engaged in a close-run thing, RAF fighters managed to pre-