ng the time devoted to the sighting opera- tion and release of bombs, the bombing teams must disregard the hos- tile pursuit and concentrate entirely upon the task at hand.” The authors added, “A well-trained and well-disciplined unit having full confidence in its ability to defend itself... may be depended upon to perform effective and accurate bombing even under the most unfavor- able circumstances.”*" The sentiment was worthy of any pre-World ‘War I army text pronouncing on the soundness of the offensive a outrance.  When the events of the late thirties began to erode the certainty of bomber invincibility, the selective reading and interpretation of informa- tion insured that reaction would be delayed and disjointed. Faith in bombers, and the long-standing pessimism about building an adequate escort type, helped to obscure avenues—such as the droppable auxiliary fuel tank—that might otherwise have been more readily recognized and explored. Though it is of course far easier to identify such things in hindsight than it is to see them at the time, there is no question that the airmen’s attachment to particular ideas inhibited their openness to new information bearing on those ideas. Their expectations, as well as their response to a competitive organizational environment, shaped their view of reality.  But bomber advocates on both sides of the Atlantic would have a chance to see their ideas tested extensively in the crucible of war. This would not have been possible if British and American politicians and publics had not found bombers a potentially attractive form of warfare (or, at least, relatively more attractive than other means). This attraction rested in large part on geography and a resulting strong tradition: resist- ance to the use and maintenance of large standing armies. In both na-  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 175  tions, but perhaps even more so in the United States, this combined with optimistic faith in technology. As Michael Sherry has perceptive