real operational capabilities of the force. As the British of- ficial historians pointed out, the results, “though not universally suc- cessful, were outstanding.”** They foreshadowed Bomber Command’s important contribution to the preinvasion bombing campaign.  Spaatz made his own bid for influence over planning. He had his staff draw up an overall assessment of the CBO’s progress and put forward targeting recommendations pertaining to Overlord. They rejected mo- rale as an object of attack, arguing that “neither fear, war weariness, nor the prospect of impoverishment is likely to be sufficient to enable important political and social groups to overthrow the efficient, ter- roristic Nazi social controls.” They likewise rejected Axis railway and motor transport arguing that the former involved too many targets with “too great a cushion of long-term civilian and industrial use.” (Spaatz was concerned, as well, that attacking railway targets would not compel German fighters into the air, thus jeopardizing the crucial battle for air superiority.) Instead, they proposed attacking the sources of German oil, along with ball bearings and fighter aircraft production. Oil had been given attention and priority by the Enemy Objectives Unit (EOU) of the Economic Warfare Division of the U.S. Embassy in London, charged with analyzing German military and industrial assets to determine the enemy’s most vulnerable points.”  Neither Harris nor Spaatz saw his preferences prevail however. On 25 March, Eisenhower and Tedder met with Harris, Portal, Spaatz, and others representing the Air Ministry, the United States Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF), the War Office, and the wartime intelligence organi- zations. After discussing at length the various targeting plans that might be employed to support Overlord, Eisenhower chose the plan calling for attacks on the French and Belgian railway system as a means of inhibi- ting the movement of German supplies and soldiers in the Normandy region, ther