f the interdependent qualities of military strength, financial and economic power, manpower, industrial power and the strength of  102 CHAPTER 2  character and moral attributes of the enemy people, is susceptible to pressure at its weakest points. He recommended that bombers use eva- sion tactics and “sheer determination” to prosecute the offensive. He maintained, though, that it would be necessary to retain a home fighter force to prevent as many enemy bombers as possible from reaching their targets, and to reduce the accuracy of those that do get through." The draft noted that the dependence of a “civilised community” on its urban centers (with their food, water, and sanitary organization) created an exploitable weakness. Its author recognized, however, that in a war for limited objectives, air bombardment or air blockade against “urban localities” might not be legitimate, and some “less devastating method of exerting pressure might have to be accepted in the early stages, or until such time as the enemy has himself shown such a lack of restraint as to attempt to apply urban blockade pressure himself.”  In Air Power and Armies, Slessor pointed out that the debate over strategic bombing in a future war had been much inflamed by “passions and prejudices” surrounding the issue of targeting. Realizing that he had to tread carefully, he asserted that he by no means underrated the “possibly terrible effects of air bombardment on the morale of a civil population,” explaining that if the “moral effect” of air attack was se- rious in the Great War, it would be “immensely more so under modern conditions.” But his conception of the RAF aim, he explained, focused on industrial dislocation and disorganization, and its impact on enemy functioning and war-related manufacture. He argued that industrial workers, who would bear the heavy brunt of attack, could not be ex- pected to have “morale and sticking power ... to equal that of the disciplined soldier.” Despite his earnest att