anizational views on discipline: steadfastness in the face of danger, they believed, came either through breeding (as in the officer class) or through instilled training and drill (as in the enlisted ranks). The urban poor had neither”  Generalized concerns about the urban poor had grown throughout the latter half of the nineteenth century. But the Edwardians redis- covered the problem at the turn of the century, and found it deeply troubling. Thirty-seven percent of the applicants examined for service in the Boer War were deemed unfit, and a similar percentage were turned away as too obviously unfit even for consideration. The root of the  16 CHAPTER 1  problem was not hard to find. Two important studies, Seebohm Rown- tree’s Poverty: A Study of Town Life (1901) and Charles Booth’s Life and Labour of the People of London (1903), both reached the same conclusion: wages paid to workers condemned one-third of the British population to conditions that barely supported the lowest level of hu- man existence. These poor were, as Samuel Hynes has explained, “a mysterious and frightening new force” inhabiting the nation’s cities and towns.”  The blunt statistics were quickly absorbed into the extant cultural- intellectual preoccupation with social Darwinism, producing anxiety about decadence (which conservatives believed to be at the heart of the problem), degeneracy, and national decline. Speculation was widespread not only about how competing states would stack up against one an- other, but also about how different races and classes within a state af- fected its overall strength, virility, cohesion, and steadfastness under stress. So great were these concerns that a 1905 pamphlet, “The Decline and Fall of the British Empire” (a weakly written tract by an author of dubious historical qualifications), became a bestseller. In its list of the eight causes of British decline, it ranked first “the prevalence of Town over Country life, and its disastrous effect on the health and