ceptions and  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 51  recommendations of the commission members. In London, the German Gotha raids of June-July 1917 had commenced; British air organization was in a state of flux; and the debate over strategic bombing was sim- mering. On 29 June, Bolling’s preliminary report, based largely on the views of Sir David Henderson of Britain’s Air Board, emphasized the potential significance of bombers.** In France, commission members spent a good deal of time trying to work out the details of licensing arrangements and royalties to be paid to French aircraft manufacturing firms. Perhaps the most immediate influence on the Bolling Commis- sion, however, was exerted by the Italians. Successful in their efforts to build a large bomber, the Italians had, by the summer of 1917, used concentrations of up to 250 such planes in raids on the Austrian front. The vital force behind the Italian air effort was the industrialist and entrepreneur Count Gianni Caproni. He offered his views to the com- mission, and in the end they nominated his aircraft as one of the types slated for American production. Special licensing and development is- sues, however, significantly delayed Caproni bomber production in the United States.’  By prioritizing aircraft for army cooperation, the Bolling Report helped insure that bombers would not be given primacy of production in the United States. More importantly, the report’s recommendations proved far in advance of American industrial organization at the time. An overnight shift from famine to feast in U.S. aircraft production could not be supported, and the problem was further complicated by constantly upgraded designs.’ By itself, money could not compensate for years of prior neglect. Production goals were set and reset; ratios for aircraft types were changed over and over; plans were drawn up but never implemented. Ironically, the grandiose American aircraft produc- tion goals had as their primary effect an urgent stimulation o