e German people. Its planners paid close attention to terminology: aim points would be transportation links, government buildings, and minor industries. In the autumn, the prospect of widely scattered air raids over Germany—employing both strategic and tactical aircraft—was raised again in plans called Hurricane I and II. Spaatz supported the plans for a “full-out beating up of Germany” in attacks on industry, oil, ordnance and motor transport depots, and transporta- tion. He was not blind to its potential psychological impact, arguing that a multiple-day attack “was bound to have considerable effect on morale” and might be the only way to end the war in 1944 with air forces.’ Ultimately though, neither Thunderclap nor the Hurricane plans materialized in 1944. The right strategic moment did not arrive, in part because the Anglo-American armies ran into setbacks. Had Op- eration Market Garden gone well, Thunderclap might have been launched on its heels."  At this same time another unusual prospect was in the works; it, too, revealed conflicted American attitudes about the need to pursue “preci- sion bombing” and the degree to which the moral effect of bombing might be used as a lever to compel victory. In June, Spaatz had sug- gested that the AAF Proving Grounds in Florida investigate the pros- pects of using new methods (special bombs or radio-controlled aircraft) to attack V-1 sites. At the same time, he had his own units look into using remotely controlled “war-weary” B-17s to carry heavy explosive loads to targets. When early testing went poorly, Spaatz began to lose interest. He discontinued testing when the Germans switched to mobile V-weapon launchers. But planes had already been collected for the pur- pose, and Arnold’s interest in the project kept it alive. A handful of aircraft were sent against a variety of targets, with mixed results. Doo- little, who was in charge of the tests, was critical of the project, dubbing it a failure as a strategic weapon.’” La