es against enemy fighters well enough to keep losses within reasonable bounds.” It credited success to the .50 caliber ma- chine gun arming U.S. bombers and to the tight formations used by bomber groups.** But events would prove that the Americans had not yet earned such bragging rights. Indeed, the basis for their optimism was fast evaporating. Continuing production problems meant that by the end of the summer, the Eighth Air Force was short of strength by some 240 bombers. In the meantime, German fighter strength on the western front had increased at a staggering rate: single-engine fighters had doubled in number, and the repertoire of deadly fighter tactics was expanding just as rapidly.” Also, American attempts at “precision bombing” were consistently hindered by pervasive cloud cover over northern Europe, and by the extreme altitudes forced upon the bomber pilots by German flak, fired by increasing numbers of anti-aircraft guns. The highly touted and publicized Norden bombsight, which had shown such promise in controlled test environments, had distinct operational  224 CHAPTER S$  limitations in Europe. Under the circumstances, Eighth Air Force bomb- ers began to divert with disturbing frequency to area targets or to fringe targets less likely to exact a high price in bombers and crews.“ Despite these setbacks, however, USAAF leaders were determined to maintain the daylight campaign.  Both the U.S. Committee of Operations Analysts (COA) and British intelligence sources had concluded that antifriction bearings represented a potential bottleneck in the German war economy, and that the Ger- mans had not stockpiled them. The factories around Schweinfurt, Germany—sixty-five miles east of Frankfurt—were known to manufac- ture approximately one-half of the total Axis supply; they looked to be a concentrated and potentially lucrative target.’ Harris had sought to resist pressure on him—maintained by those he dismissively called the “Schweinfurt fans” —to attack the tar