ovember 1918, 76 percent of the airplanes sent out bombed “some objective.” (Fourteen percent returned due to engine trouble and 10 percent due to poor weather.) Of the 76 percent dropping bombs, 55.5 percent attacked their “allotted targets,” and 20.5 percent at- tacked targets “of their own choosing.”  Under the circumstances, Trenchard, like Newall before him, turned to attacking what was readily in range. This expedient suited Trench- ard’s predilection for using air power to support ground operations whenever possible, and also allowed him to comply with the special requests of French General Headquarters. He reported that his forces had made frequent visits to railway stations in the vicinity of the ground war. He also reported increasing activities by hostile aircraft against his day bombers, and observed that “on many occasions there has been considerable fighting.”"® By high summer both enemy resistance and poor weather had become unhappy refrains in Trenchard’s dispatches. Though a spell of fine weather in August allowed opportunities for long-distance raids, the force was nonetheless grounded on eighteen days and sixteen nights. In October “extremely unfavorable” weather again kept his force grounded more than half the time. From mid- September into October, Trenchard’s force was diverted to help support the American ground offensive on the St. Mihiel salient.'* Though he reported long distance raids on Kaiserslautern, Frankfurt, Bonn, Wies- baden, and Mannheim, these generally involved small numbers of air- craft dropping ineffective 112-pound bombs.  In the end, strategic attacks on German war industry comprised only about 16 percent of total raids by the IF.“ Trenchard instead dedicated much of his time to attacking railways: in the three summer months of  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 43  1918, Trenchard devoted to the railways, respectively, 55 percent, 46 percent, and 31 percent of the total bombs dropped by the IF. And he argued that he had no choice bu