ed over a drawing of repeated hammer blows against a gradually shattering Nazi swastika. The opening paragraph of the story read, “The air offensive against Germany and Axis Europe is suffering from understatement. The objective is not merely to destroy cities, industries, human beings, and the human spirit on a scale never before attempted by air action. The objective is to defeat Hitler with bombs, and to do it in 1943.” But the author (anonymous) took a generally skeptical tone, pointing out the slower than expected build-up of American forces, the generally rapid recovery of German cities from bombing raids, and the lack of evidence of any imminent collapse of the German people. Harris’s faith, however, did not waver."  Evidence of Harris’s commitment to city bombing could be found in the “Blue Books” he maintained at his High Wycombe headquarters. These oversized volumes were intended to make his case—in diagram- matic form—to all who would listen. In them, each of the major towns in Germany was assigned a “key point rating,” which was an index of its overall industrial importance. Each town was portrayed as a circle, the area of which varied with its key point rating, and each circle was divided into colored segments showing the proportion of various main groups of industry making up the whole. The diagrams, constantly up- dated, also indicated the proportion of a town’s inhabitants directly en- gaged in or dependent on its industries (“key point factor”), as well as  218 CHAPTER S  the area of the town that Bomber Command had destroyed. Harris, very proud of this inventory of destruction, showed the leather-bound volumes to all important visitors who came through his headquarters."*  Harris’s successes had afforded him a certain amount of autonomy, but not as much as he would have liked. Moreover, Harris continued to believe that Bomber Command was under siege from the “diversion- ists” and “panacea mongers.” In a pointed letter to Deputy Chief of Air Staff S