tions. Jules Verne’s widely read novel Clipper of the Clouds (1886) asserted that the future belonged to aerial warfare machines.”  As scientific progress continued, notions of air war were modernized, and infused with the hopes, concerns, and fears of the day. A recurring theme was that air warfare would be terrible. Like Francesco Lana, many concluded that future air battles might be so awful as to prompt men to mitigate their behavior, or even abolish war altogether—fostering a better, more peaceful world. In 1862, Victor Hugo speculated that aircraft would bring about the universal abolition of borders, leading to  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 13  the end of wars and a great “peaceful revolution.”* In 1893, Maj. J. D. Fullerton of the British Royal Engineers anticipated an aerial “revolu- tion in the art of war,” arguing that the arrival of an enemy air fleet over a capital city would have such an impact as to end hostilities. A year later, inventor Octave Chanute argued that because no territory would be immune from the horrors of air war, “the ultimate effect will be to diminish greatly the frequency of wars and to substitute more rational methods of settling international misunderstandings.””  In the hands of some Victorian novelists and purveyors of sensa- tionalist fiction, however, speculation about air war was infiltrated by nationalism and xenophobia, and linked explicitly to imperialist fanta- sies of technical domination and subjugation of foreign peoples. These themes reflected the period’s pervasive acceptance of Social Darwinism and highly competitive forms of colonial conquest. William Delisle Hay’s 1881 novel, Three Hundred Years Hence, envisioned a war wherein a European air fleet destroys Asian armies and ravages their lands. Ameri- can writers produced similar fantasies. In $. W. Odell’s The Last War; Or, Triumph of the English Tongue, published in 1898, English-speaking peoples win their final battle against inferior races via an air force that ra