e the outcome they sought, British and American airmen made modifications that took them steadily toward heavier, less discriminate bombing. By 1944-1945 this trend was reinforced by an- other: Allied leaders’ desire to end the long war as quickly as possible. The result was nothing less than a form of aerial Armageddon played out over the skies of Germany and Japan.  10 INTRODUCTION  The first three chapters that follow treat the early development and evolution of Anglo-American ideas about aerial bombing; the fourth and fifth chapters discuss the way in which their adherents attempted to implement them in the Second World War. The first chapter begins by reviewing some of the earliest conceptions of strategic bombing and explaining how these ideas developed, within British and American mil- itary institutions, during the First World War. It traces the history of long-range bombing in the war, and concludes by summarizing the Brit- ish and American post-armistice bombing surveys. The second chapter examines the RAF during the interwar years, revealing how arguments about long-range bombing were developed and presented in the 1920s, and how they were (or were not) modified in the tense and uncertain years leading up to 1939. The third chapter, on the American Air Ser- vice (later Air Corps) in the interwar years, shows how American think- ing about strategic bombing evolved through the 1920s and 1930s, and contrasts this with British developments.  The fourth chapter covers the early World War II years, 1939-42. It focuses on the crises faced by British and American airmen, and the decisions that they made in response. It reveals the abrupt clash be- tween interwar assumptions and wartime realities. The fifth chapter ex- amines the the British and American “Combined Bomber Offensive” of 1943-45, detailing the sometimes desperate Anglo-American quest to make bombing into an effective tool of war against Germany, and how this quest ultimately led to the kind of aerial