st to echo the Hoover Plan), designed to rekindle the bomber discussions, but his efforts were not entirely successful. When German demands for Gleichberichtigung (equal treatment) prompted British policymakers to explore more radical solutions by late 1932, including the international control of civil aviation, the solutions were hung up in part by American unwillingness to accept any restraint in this realm.”  By the mid-1930s worldwide tension over the possibilities of air war- fare had increased, and Americans, like others around the globe, were increasingly confronted with highly disturbing news emanating from Ethiopia, China, and Spain. Descriptions of “cold-blooded, wanton, purposeless” attacks on noncombatants at Guernica helped to raise public concern and to encourage further Congressional funding for the  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 153  Air Corps.” Public analyses of the impact of bombing in foreign wars did not yield a consensus: “Prophets found the evidence necessary to sustain their arguments or merely ruled the record before 1939 too in- conclusive to merit much attention, while skeptics usually had their doubts reinforced.” Articles addressing the bombing raids did not shy away from detail or graphic imagery, and they professed outrage at the perpetrators of such cruel and inhuman acts. But their conclusions var- ied. Many commentators described the raids as self-defeating in that they roused the affected populations to higher levels of indignation and determination.  New York Times reporter Herbert L. Matthews, on assignment with the Leftist forces in Spain, argued that terror by air is a real phenome- non. He cabled the following: “Human beings are not built to with- stand such horror . . . makes one either hysterical or on the verge of hysteria . . . hard to remain sane.” American political leaders reacted with anger and outrage at the aerial attacks that gripped the attention of the world in the 1930s, often responding in rhetoric that echoed