ates—just as in Britain—the airplane’s appeal as a tool of war would come to be strong. Among both British and American airmen, arguments for power and autonomy came to rest heavily on claims about bomber’s role in war: if they were to determine the outcomes of future wars, then air forces should have institutional independence and a major claim on national resources. But any argument about the cen- trality of bombers in war had to rest on claims about enemy vulner- ability to disruption and dislocation. Trenchard worked to insure that his service would be committed to the prosecution of a prompt and determined offensive against enemy “vital centers.” In the 1920s this assertive rhetoric promised an inexpensive deterrent to such remote threats as appeared on the horizon. The details of how to prosecute an air war were less pressing. Trenchard was not inclined to dwell on these, and, in any event, it did not serve his bureaucratic interests to do so.  Useful for its immediate purpose, Trenchard’s rhetoric nonetheless re- mained vague and underspecified—an Edwardian artifact in a world that had moved on. This created problems both inside and outside the RABE particularly as a gap developed between the RAF’s official declara- tions and its actual capabilities. In emphasizing the moral effect of stra- tegic bombing, Trenchard overestimated its impact on a future war and downplayed the operational challenges it posed. He left his service con- fused as to its mission’s scope and nature—especially in light of implicit prohibitions against the bombing of civilians—and his far-reaching claims intensified the other services’ animosity toward the RAF. Upon his retirement, the RAF had institutional security, but no clarity regard- ing how it might perform its self-proclaimed mission. In the 1930s, Trenchard’s successors had to sort out these problems under the pres-  CONCLUSION 291  sures of an increasingly ominous political situation. As they did this, they reevaluated and pul