cottish businessman with a long-standing interest in strategic bombing. Once in his new post, Weir persuaded Trenchard to take charge of the soon-to-be-established “Independent Force,” emphasizing that it would be a “really big active command.”"" Weir’s choice, in many respects an unlikely one, nonethe- less capitalized on Trenchard’s energy and command experience. Tren- chard, in London and out of a job, finally agreed to take the post in the late spring.  Trenchard’s reasons for accepting command of the bomber force in  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 37  1918 have remained somewhat obscure; historians have had to make deductions based partly on circumstances and partly on Trenchard’s ex post facto explanations. Trenchard knew that he had the confidence of the field commanders on the continent and that he could maintain good relations with the Allied armies. As a pragmatist, he probably felt he was the best man for the job: it would give him an opportunity, at least, to prevent too much harm from being done. In written negotiations with Weir, Trenchard insisted that the “fundamental principles” of air warfare could not be understood by men with no experience of it. He also insisted that a bombing offensive could not be directed from Lon- don, but must instead be run from the field since “weather, wind, engine trouble, hostile machines, and anti-aircraft all have their voice in the matter.” On 8 May Trenchard, having concluded that the IF was an inevitability, reluctantly told Weir that he would do his best to make the command a success as far as possible.” Later in his career, Trenchard explained that he was opposed to an Independent Force at the time because he did not want to jeopardize the fighting on the western front; he implied, not quite genuinely, that he disagreed only on the timing of independence, not with the idea itself. But Weir’s influence was certainly crucial. He was able to chide Trenchard—petulant, embarrassed, and sitting idly in Green Park—and insist