resholds." In addition, discontented civilians may simply lack the mechanisms to convey their discontent into political leverage against the national leadership.  Second, World War II was the exception rather than the rule: most wars have been fought within distinct political parameters—not to mention legal and ethical ones. For political reasons it will rarely, if ever, be possible to implement what air forces have traditionally be- lieved to be the most effective campaign: an immediate, all-out strike on the enemy’s most valuable assets. Even in World War II (the most “to- tal” of modern wars), limits on Anglo-American bombers were lifted only slowly, over a period of years. And, even though the war was later considered a “good war” fought for the right reasons, the Anglo-Ameri- can public has proven uneasy with its legacy of unconstrained bombing.  300 CONCLUSION  After Vietnam, defensiveness inhibited USAF dialogues and, for a while, proscribed a thorough and searching analysis of doctrine (and the applicability of that doctrine to differing circumstances). There was still no satisfactory understanding of the crucial relationship between bomber raids and desired political outcomes. In the conclusion to his 1989 book, The Limits of Air Power, Mark Clodfelter, a junior officer in the air force, wrote, “The tremendous rush of technology—which has produced gargantuan B-52s and sleek B-1s capable of carrying 30 tons of ordnance, and supersonic fighters capable of directing laser- guided bombs into a single warehouse in the heart of a densely- populated city—has not guaranteed military success. What it has done, however, is to create a modern vision of air power that focuses on the lethality of its weaponry rather than on that weaponry’s effectiveness as a political instrument.”* His critique was notable not only because it was perceptive, but because it was delivered by a serving USAF officer.  In the thirty years since Vietnam, strategic bombing has, if anything, be