pansion of the Aviation Section.” The naive scheme failed to anticipate the time and effort required to raise American industry to such unprecedented levels of output. But it touched a chord in the American imagination, and the public was quickly captivated by aerial images of “slaying the Hun.”2” The patriotic fanfare and grandiose rhetoric inflamed public expecta- tions of American aviation.  Ribot had not specified aircraft types, so Secretary of War Newton Baker sent a commission to Europe to determine what kinds and num- bers of aircraft the United States could produce to best aid the Allied air effort. The commission, which set sail in June, was headed by Maj. Raynal C. Bolling, a former chief counsel for the United States Steel Corporation, and a staunch supporter of aviation.” Its members spent time in London, France, and Italy before tendering their report on 15 August. Significantly, the Bolling Report went beyond a conception of aircraft as support mechanisms and envisioned them ultimately per- forming a role separate from armies in the field.” It argued that Ameri- can production should proceed in three phases: the first would concen- trate on building aircraft for training purposes in the United States; the second on building aircraft and engines for use “strictly in connection with the operation of American forces in the Field”; and the third on building fighters and bombers “in excess of the tactical requirements [of the army in France].””° Bolling and his colleagues recommended creat- ing a mix of day and night bombers, although they viewed the latter as having greater possibilities. They took pains to point out that an ef- fective aerial bombing campaign would have to be concentrated and sustained.”  A number of events and individuals influenced the perceptions and  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 51  recommendations of the commission members. In London, the German Gotha raids of June-July 1917 had commenced; British air organization was in a state of flux