onal shortcomings.”  Other important issues also received inadequate attention. These in- cluded bomber tactics, in particular: how bombers might defend them- selves, the types and calibre of guns they might use, and the armor they might require. In addition, bombing trials held in the interwar years generally allowed bombers to fly without opposition, at altitudes too low (14,000 feet and below) to determine bombing accuracy under op- erational conditions. Further undermining any semblance of a wartime environment was the illumination of targets during night trials. Not enough was done to determine what effects different types of bombs might produce, and what improvements might be made in them. Finally, until 1929, no adequate air intelligence organization was set up to accu- mulate information about the industry and infrastructure of potential enemies, and to identify and evaluate targets. And even after such an organization was established on a permanent basis, its staff was too small for the task at hand.”  Though trials pitting bombers against fighters were held beginning in 1927, they never truly challenged Trenchardian assumptions. This was true even though a reading of the results, at least in hindsight, strongly suggests that they should have. Aided by a range of technical develop-  90 CHAPTER 2  ments, air defense against both daylight and nighttime raids was greatly improved over the World War I standard. In 1933, for instance, squad- rons intercepted 55 percent of enemy day-formations as they flew to- ward the target, and another 26 percent as they left it; 67 percent of individual night raiders were intercepted.”* But what might have seemed clear defensive victories were not perceived as such: proponents of the strategic air offensive did not seem to grasp the problems raised for them by these exercises. When assessing results, bomber advocates ap- plied both formal rules and cognitive filters that insured they would see what they expected to see: the p