ogey of War” that aviation had produced “a grotesque coterie of writers and editors who have subscribed to the unproven theory that the airplane is a substitute for every other weapon of war.” A naval reserve officer particularly incensed by Mitchell, Hogg argued that the “only warships ever seriously damaged or destroyed by aerial bombing were some obsolete old hulks ... motionless, undefended vessels— naval relics with none of the structural strength and armored decks of modern fighting ships.” In 1935, W. E. Kernan, warning that the bomber held an “insidious appeal to the imagination,” cautioned that “sweeping generalizations about the opportunities for conquest which modern science has placed in the hands of the aviator are easy to make and difficult to refute.” He added, “When such eminent authorities as Captain B. H. Liddell Hart and Mr. H. G. Wells predict misery, ruin, and desolation from the air . . . the average citizen is inclined to believe in the reality of the menace.”*”  Conway’s essay presented a sober, informed account of the history of strategic bombing and its limitations in wartime. Beginning with an overview of British and German bombing in World War I, he explained that since little material damage was done, emphasis had been placed upon the indirect effects and the moral effect of bombing, particularly in the British postwar bombing survey. He also summarized British mis- givings over public demands for reprisals and over the diversion of large numbers of aircraft to home defense missions. But he held, nonetheless, that bombers had operated with real limitations (including weather and navigation problems), and that improving air defenses had made suc- cessful raids increasingly rare as the war continued.  Conway then postulated a scenario in which a hostile northern neigh- bor waged air attacks upon the United States with a force roughly equal to that of France (the largest air power at the time). Basing his estimates on the number of bombs th