n” ideal. The toll this took on German civilians—formally considered “col- lateral casualties”—was enormous.  HARRIS’S BATTLE FOR CITY BOMBING  Battles over targeting priorities took place at practically every level of the Anglo-American wartime hierarchy. One of the most hard-fought battles developed between the British Air Staff and the chief of Bomber Command. Portal—who had led the RAF’s transition to area targets  246 CHAPTER S$  early in the war—at this point found himself in the position of arguing exactly the opposite case he had made four years previously. Though he had hoped that the general area offensive would significantly aid the war effort, he remained attentive to other approaches. Looking closely at Ultra intelligence, he had become increasingly convinced that Spaatz was on a fruitful path: oil was now a key German weakness—and city bombing had brought no similarly apparent result, In July the Air Min- istry had announced the formation of an Anglo-American oil targets committee, which diligently monitored the Axis oil supply. The Ameri- can raids under Spaatz, and the advance of the Red Army (neutralizing first Polish oil sources and later Romanian ones), had created a situa- tion that could not fail to arouse the Air Staff’s interest. By late summer of 1944, Allied oil attacks—even in the face of bad weather—had re- duced by two-thirds the level of oil production achieved by the Ger- mans in January of that year." Bomber Command’s contribution had the potential to be very great. The liberation of France and the overrun- ning of the German early-warning net had allowed Bomber Command to conduct some daylight raids on oil targets. These were more accurate than night raids, and, because they were undertaken with powerful Lan- caster bombers (with a bombload capacity higher than that of American bombers), they were capable of doing very serious damage: every single raid made a difference.  Portal worried (with cause) that Harris continued to see oil an