c” mentality of the Air Corps Tactical School: Lt. Col. Harold George, Maj. Lawrence Kuter, Maj. Haywood Hansell, and Lt. Col. Kenneth Walker. They designated “key node” targets in the German war economy for destruction by American bombers flying in self-defending formations in daylight.”*  AWPD /1 called for attacks against the industrial and economic structure of Germany to “break down the capacity of the German na- tion to wage war.” While it assumed that the air force would support a final invasion of the continent, it held out the possibility that if the strategic air offensive itself were successful, it might preclude the need for such an invasion. Overall it called for 2,164,916 men and 63,467 aircraft. Target selection was at the heart of the plan, and this was supported by analyses of bomb tonnage, aircraft attrition estimates, and airfield and crew requirements. In the end, the planners selected 154 targets, including the German electric power system, transportation, pe- troleum, aircraft assembly plants, and aluminum and magnesium facto- ries. Planners assumed that “precision” attacks on approximately fifty electric generating stations would, along with attacks on transportation and petroleum targets, collapse the German military and civilian estab- lishments.” Even though AWPD/1 was based on selective targeting of  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 207  key points in the German war economy, it also incorporated ideas about the psychological effect of bombing. Specifically, it included the possi- bility that at the right moment—when the enemy was already worn down and weary—air attacks for psychological effect against German cities might hasten enemy surrender. A carefully timed attack on Berlin was envisioned as the most likely scenario for such an operation."”  In line with the thinking developed at the Air Corps Tactical School, the authors of AWPD/1 believed that bombers could rely on speed, high-altitude, massed formations, armament, and defensive fire