imately destroy him.” He explained, “To this is added a feeling of utter helplessness, not justified by facts but none the less instinctive and not to be overcome wholly by reason or training.”* In a passage that reflected the early appeal of “bottleneck” theories and also foreshadowed a theme Sherman would develop more fully later, he compared the morale of an army to the human body, arguing that in order to destroy it, it is necessary only “to destroy one of several of its component parts.”’ In June 1920, portions of Sherman’s Tentative Manual were published in the Air Service Information Circu- lar; the opening section on day bombardment repeated Trenchard’s “twenty to one” rule, albeit without attribution.*  Like Sherman, the majority of officers accepted the organizational situation and identified army aviation as a supporting arm for infantry operations. In the early 1920s, official army publications on the role of the Air Service emphasized its position as an auxiliary service, and fo- cused on support missions including observation and defensive pursuit. ‘Without experience in independent operations, the Americans had little leverage in arguing for a separate identity and organization. The Army Reorganization Act of June 1920 made the Air Service a part of the combat line of the army; no changes were made in its relations with the General Staff.’ And another constraint operated: Secretary of War New- ton Baker had objected fundamentally to strategic bombing. In a section of his 1919 annual report, Baker made his thoughts clear. Addressing himself to the question of whether the United States required a separate  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 133  service for the air, his answer was a resounding “no.” To him, air forces were utilized best when supporting troops in the field, particularly through observation. He argued that by far the most effective use of air power in the war had been for observation."  With respect to long-range bombing, Baker first noted t