erica’s youth. In the 1930s, boys’ aeronautic organizations flourished: the Jun- ior Birdmen of America had no less than 500,000 members by 1936.” Alexander de Seversky, a World War I Russian fighter pilot who subse- quently emigrated to the United States and worked as an aircraft de- signer and entrepreneur, also worked as a tireless advocate of air power, proselytizing about its revolutionary impact on war. Though he did not evoke original ideas, he brought enormous energy and enthusiasm to his task.  Throughout the interwar years, though, the American debate over military aviation and strategic bombing was never so highly charged as it was in England—nor was it so high-profile a political issue. Mitchell’s fate serves as a paradigm: though clearly captivated by him, Americans remained detached from his prognostications and uncommitted to his demands. The navy remained a powerful and assertive force, able to work against any erosion of its power and influence. And dramatic speculation about air war was frequently offset by writers who took  150 CHAPTER 3  rather more sober views. Sometimes (but not always) associated with navy opinions, these critics sought to burst what they perceived as an overinflated air-power balloon set aloft by “enthusiasts,” “propagand- ists,” “devotees,” “advocates,” “fact-dodging contributors,” and “Jer- emiahs of the press.”  In his 1932 essay, “Death from the Sky” (for The American Mer- cury), Arlington B. Conway complained, “The flyers . . . have taken to playing the politician’s game, i.e. conjuring up a terrible bogey and then representing themselves as the only sorcerers capable of exorcising it.” He was concerned that the “air terror myth” was “rapidly penetrating the mass consciousness.” Similarly, John Edwin Hogg thundered in “The Bogey of War” that aviation had produced “a grotesque coterie of writers and editors who have subscribed to the unproven theory that the airplane is a substitute for every other weapon of war.” A naval