bacle was dissected by a committee headed by former Secretary of War Newton Baker. The Baker Board recommended a more comprehensive and sophisticated training program for pilots, better instruments and communications, and strengthening of the na- tional meteorological infrastructure. Air Corps leadership blamed its woes on insufficient funding and support. General Foulois, arguing that the Baker Board recommendations comprised the first “comprehensive outline of War Department policy” relative to the Air Corps, asserted that the loss of life had finally “forced” the president and congress to free up funds for the Air Corps.” Without doubt the Air Corps, like the RAK, had been stressed by the constraints of financial stringency. But again like the RAF, it had fallen victim to a certain amount of internal complacency about the operational details of its mission, allowing itself to be outpaced by the achievements of nonmilitary aviation.  Once the airmail fiasco had ended, however, the Air Corps quickly sought to regain its equilibrium. Speaking at the Indiana Department of the American Legion in early May 1935, Chief of the GHQ Air Force Gen. Frank M. Andrews described the probable wartime mission of his force, emphasizing that the “most important operation for the United States Army Air Forces is to defeat the enemy aviation.” Noting that the initial phases would be characterized by a struggle between opposing air forces, Andrews explained that the GHQ would then undertake “inde- pendent air operations,” attacking enemy aviation and aviation bases, naval forces, choke points (including railway lines, highway bridges, canal locks), troop concentrations, and war industry.” Andrews’ words reflected the expanding ambitions and aspirations of his service. With burgeoning responsibility for American national security policy, airmen knew that they also would have increased opportunity. By 1935, Con- gress expanded Air Corps appropriations—and the trend continued, spurred on