IC) again had argued that the majority of the German population accepted the bombing with hopeless resignation. In the view of the committee, Allied bombing was “most unlikely to foment such opposition or produce such chaos as might lead to a collapse of the home front.”"* Harris, preferring to trust his instincts, put little store in such information.  Portal feared that Harris’s conception of what was “possible” on any given night had been overly influenced by his strong investment in the city campaign. Not only had Harris staked his own prestige on it, but he had convinced himself that the built-up momentum of the attack— intensified almost daily by the increase in Allied strength and the deteri- oration of the German position—virtually guaranteed success in the near term. This conviction, along with the inability to believe that oil could be anything but another “panacea,” kept him from seeing the world as Portal did—and prevented him from understanding the history of the war, up to that point, as Portal had understood it.” Harris might have avoided a long and painful debate with Portal by simply reassuring him that Bomber Command was doing all it could for the oil campaign, given the weather. But Harris refused this course: he felt compelled to fight for the cause he believed in, even if it alienated others and compro- mised his position in the eyes of his colleagues. He would not accom- modate, conciliate, or play along in a collegial consensus. His actions were determined not only by the way he had come to perceive the war and his investment in a particular course of action, but also by his stub- born personality.  Harris’s sensitivities about the position of the RAF among the services played a role as well, inhibiting his willingness to prioritize targets in Germany that offered potent, synergistic effects with the ground war. Very much a central element of Harris’s debate with Portal was the former’s contention that to use bombers “to deprive the enemy figh