r to assess the effects of the raids on national morale. Be- yond question, the raids were a rude shock to a population that had felt itself insulated by both the English Channel and a tradition of naval strength. Some of the early raids caused disruption on the streets and in the factories. Sometimes following the more severe raids, public anger manifested itself in civil disturbances that usually took the form of an- gry groups attacking shops owned (or thought to be owned) by German. nationals.* But even though some residents of Hull sometimes took shelter in the countryside, and though some Londoners did the same (or headed to the Underground for safety), it would overstate the case to argue that the zeppelin raids had provoked panic. Here it is crucially important to separate out “panic” and “anger”; even though they are two distinct reactions, they have tended to be conflated in the inter- pretation of the British reaction to World War I bombing. Certainly the British were angry and indignant about the poor state of their defenses, and outraged that their government seemed so inept at the whole busi- ness. But there is no evidence of persistent, widespread, or deep-seated panic over the zeppelin raids. If members of the government began to feel pressure regarding the state of British defenses, it was not pressure to sue for terms.  Newspaper accounts, and wartime letters written by average citizens, indicated that though the zeppelin raids caused strain, the population was angered rather than paralyzed by them. But these sources surely expressed frustration over the slow development of British defenses.® In a book written just after the war, Col. A. Rawlinson of the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve explained the public reaction thus: “There was, of course, no sign whatever of any kind of panic, but there undoubtedly was a certain feeling of dismay. This was immediately followed by a deep and universal anger that such attacks should be made upon our defenceless wo