sioned the German air force, operating out of the Low Countries, able to drop 150 tons of bombs daily for an unspecified period. After reports of air attacks on Barcelona in 1938, the government raised its multiplier of fifty casualties per ton of bombs to a higher ratio of seventy-two per ton.’” A July 1938 report by the Advisory Committee on London Casu- alty Organization (under the Home Secretary and the Minister of Health)  110 CHAPTER 2  expected a rate of 30,000 casualties per day requiring hospital treat- ment; a rate that would continue over several weeks.’” And the govern- ment continued to be as concerned as the popular writers about the prospect of civilian panic and hysteria in the wake of air attacks. Be- tween December 1937 and September 1938, discussions among the War Office, Home Office, and Commissioner of Police recommended the provision of some 17,000 regular troops (with 20,000 reserve consta- bles) to control crowds and panic in London and other cities."”  In October 1938 the Ministry of Health received, from eminent psy- chiatrists in London, a report indicating that psychiatric casualties might outnumber physical casualties by three to one. The previous month the director of one highly regarded London clinic predicted widespread outbreaks of neurosis upon a declaration of war, and espe- cially after the first air raids. In April 1939 the Ministry of Health re- ceived another report indicating that war would trigger increases in mental and nervous disorders to “an extent never before experienced.” In that same month, the Ministry issued one million burial forms to local authorities.“ Unsurprisingly, medical journal articles speculated on the public health implications of a future war. In a typical assess- ment, Dr. John Rickman pointed out that “[t]he civilian population is not organized into regiments which, by special training and tradition, claim and inspire the self-forgetful devotion of individuals.” As if to remedy the situation, Dr. Maur