re understandably nervous about any RAF bombing that might provoke retaliation against them. On 4 June, DCAS Air Vice-Marshal Sholto Douglas summed things up when he told Portal laconically: “the strenuous and gallant efforts of your squad- rons against objectives in collaboration with the land battle since the 10th May have not always had results commensurate with the effort exerted.”  186 CHAPTER 4  At the end of May, the Chiefs of Staff had undertaken a plan for coping with “a certain eventuality”: the fall of France.” Their review of the situation called for defeating Germany through a combination of economic pressure, bombing, and the fostering of revolt in the occupied territories. Following a shift that had commenced earlier, the Air Staff chose to concentrate Bomber Command on attacks against the German oil supply. This Tivertonian approach, designed to eliminate (or at least reduce) a crucial commodity, was coupled with its Trenchardian alter- native: a continuous interruption of German industry to be sought on nights when weather would not permit the location of oil targets. The decision to target oil rested on optimistic intelligence reports combined with a hope—however faint it may have been at that point—that Bomber Command could actually find and hit such targets. Back in April, Portal had revealed hopefulness regarding Bomber Command’s prospects against oil. Indeed, RAF optimism at this point rested far more on hopefulness than direct experience: it was largely a case of good news being generated by those who wanted very badly to believe it.  A little unfounded optimism can be a good thing, however: the hope that Bomber Command might play a role in fighting Germany helped Winston Churchill win the day against those who felt that Britain had no choice but to seek terms with Hitler. The new prime minister felt that, before any negotiations with the enemy, the British had to prove they would not be beaten. Proving this would depend on maintaining effecti