f the navy dirigible Shenandoah as a pretext for issuing a highly inflammatory statement to the press, indicting the War and Navy De- partments on charges of “incompetency, criminal negligence, and al- most treasonable administration of the national defense.” The army  138 CHAPTER 3  promptly ordered Mitchell to Washington to stand before a court mar- tial. On 28 October he was charged with conduct prejudicial to military discipline and of a nature to bring discredit upon the military service; in December he was found guilty and suspended from duty for five years. He resigned from the Army in early 1926, but continued to be a cham- pion of air power and something of a celebrity in public circles.  Despite Mitchell’s strident campaign, the eventual fate of the Air Ser- vice was largely determined within various governmental bureaucracies. The House Committee on Military Affairs formulated its own “Air Corps Bill,” which the Senate then amended heavily. Their compromise became law on 2 July 1926." The Air Service was redesignated the Air Corps: an air section for each division of the General Staff was estab- lished, and a new Assistant Secretary of War was named for aeronau- tics. The bill also authorized a program for expanding and equipping the Air Corps over five years. But representation on the General Staff lacked real influence, meaningful reforms were not carried out (to the satisfaction of the airmen), and funds for a five-year expansion program were not always authorized in full amounts.” The Air Corps remained very much a part of the army.  PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS FOR THE AIR CORPS  When the Air Service became the Air Corps in 1926, the renamed Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) continued to train officers in the mission of the new service. Neither Congress nor Mitchell had settled any of the major debates on the future of air power. But most airmen were content simply to look to the future, a sentiment reflected in the ACTS motto adopted in 1929: “Proficimus Mo