eir own air forces independently." He was quite right on all counts, though his third point deserves elab- oration. USAAF commanders, focused as they had been on the fight for organizational independence, were determined not to relinquish their air assets to British control, or to jump to British tactics before trying out their own. But more was at work than national assertiveness. Amer- ican airmen had a genuine, unshaken conviction in their theory of air war. They found it elegant, straightforward, and promising. It helped them around the ethical concerns raised about bombing, and it prom- ised leverage in the ongoing struggle for service autonomy. By emphasiz- ing these things, and simultaneously downplaying British doubts, they held fast to their convictions. Still, as the American official historians have pointed out, the Americans were committed to daylight precision bombing “more as a matter of faith than of knowledge empirically ar- rived at.”  On 8 June 1942 the United States’ European Theater of Operations  210 CHAPTER 4  opened officially with Spaatz at the helm of the Eighth Air Force, com- prised of VIII Bomber Command, VIII Fighter Command, VIII Air Sup- port Command, and VIII Service Command. Brig. Gen. Ira Eaker was in charge of Eighth Bomber Command operations. Only in September was a joint U.S.-British directive on day bomber operations finalized. It stated that the aim of day bombardment by Allied air forces based in Britain was to achieve continuity in the bombing offensive against the Axis. It further stated that night bombardment policies, which fell under the purview of Bomber Command, would remain as defined in existing Air Ministry directives. The day bombing offensive, to be di- rected toward the “destruction and damage of precise targets vital to the Axis war effort,” would develop in three phases. First, U.S. bombers, aided by U.S. and RAF fighter protection, would attack tar- gets within the radius of action of RAF fighter forces. Second