d he cautioned, “A strong government will recognize that the enemy’s armed forces are the true objective, and will not permit popular clamor to weaken materially the forces at the front.” Milling identified headquarters, munitions depots, and railways as key bombardment ob- jectives. He also reasoned that, though the threat of the hostile air force would be countered chiefly in the air, enemy airdromes must also be  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 135  placed on any target list. Echoing the American bombing survey, he insisted that aerial bombing should not be haphazard, but must instead “have a definite objective in some war industry.”" Similarly, the 1924 Air Service Tactical School’s “Bombardment” text noted that during World War I, bombing squadrons had “operated in a more or less hap- hazard fashion, their efficiency varying with the initiative of the com- manders and the resistance they happened to encounter.”*’ Nonetheless, its authors went on to say that “[d]espite the fact that it was hampered in its early development by a confused idea of its mission and an utter lack of comprehension of its potentiality, bombardment . . . proved it- self to be a powerful combatant arm.”” The text strongly recommended that targets be selected carefully.  By 1925 American airmen were beginning to move steadily toward a more independent line than the one authorized by the army, and they were doing so self-consciously. This was reflected in a 1925 memo from the Office of the Chief of the Air Service to Maj. Carl Spaatz (later the commanding general of the U.S. Strategic Air Forces in Europe in World War II). Sent shortly after Spaatz graduated from the Air Service Tacti- cal School (and titled “Suggestions for improvement of The Air Service Tactical School”), it posed the question: “Is the independent mission of the air force sufficiently stressed or is the entire course based on the thought that the sole mission of the Air Service is to assist the advance of the Ground Force