nd won long ago, if only there had not been such political inhibition.”” But this perspective overlooked the crucial differences be- tween 1965 and 1972. Linebacker I’s success was facilitated by the fact that, when it took place, Hanoi had shifted to a conventional strategy that was far more vulnerable to air power’s effects than the earlier guer- illa war had been. And when Linebacker II commenced, Hanoi had already achieved most of its political goals and was prepared to sign an accord that would put it, ultimately, within easy grasp of its final aims. These important distinctions often were overlooked, however, leaving a false impression of bombing’s utility and reinforcing proclamations about its future application in war.”  The air force’s response to criticism implying that it had not lived up to public expectations was not to try to modify those expectations but rather to insist that bombing could be decisive—if only it could be freed from political restraints. Those air leaders who had held important po- sitions during World War II particularly resented the constraints placed on them later. But two observations are worth noting here. First, there were few important targets in Korea and Vietnam that were not hit hard by bombers (often multiple times). Even when heavy pressure can be brought to bear on enemy economies and societies, they can prove resilient and robust. In the economic realm, industry can be dispersed, repairs can be made, and resources can be obtained externally. In the social realm, civilians can move out of the way of bombs, they can become acclimated to their effects over time, or they can choose to ac- cept high levels of discomfort and sacrifice. Motivated and mobilized civilians backed by determined governments can sustain very high pain thresholds." In addition, discontented civilians may simply lack the mechanisms to convey their discontent into political leverage against the national leadership.  Second, World War II was the exceptio