di- ary attacks against cities, thereby laying the groundwork for the later use of atomic bombs. The consequences of all these adaptations were profound; in addition to their immediate effects, they raised urgent moral questions—and established legal and ethical dilemmas—that would linger long after all the guns of war had been silenced.  Conclusion  How aircraft might be employed in war—and what they might accom- plish—were among the most pressing military questions of the early twentieth century. Those who envisioned radical answers followed in a long tradition of speculation about the power of both flight and aerial bombardment, and the vulnerability of civilian societies to aerial on- slaught. Two ideas, in particular, drove this kind of imagining. The first was that the overwhelming power of bombers—especially their ability to inflict wanton destruction anywhere their pilots chose to fly—would prove overwhelming to human nerves. The second was that since mod- ern societies were complex and interdependent, they were vulnerable to the kinds of pressures bombers could impose. These notions have re- tained a remarkable tenacity into the twenty-first century, even in the face of evidence that has called them into question.  eer  The advent of aircraft forced governments and militaries to respond to them. During the First World War, sustained German air attacks on Britain—London in particular—aroused anger among the British peo- ple and convinced a nervous government to act. The Smuts Report of 1917 set in train a far-reaching and consequential reorganization of British military resources, and furthered the development of ideas about long-rang bombing. Remarkably, most of the key ideas shaping strategic bombing in twentieth century were developed rapidly—and articulated by 1917-18. In Britain, Tiverton perceived a natural opportunity to attack “bottlenecks” in the enemy’s war-fighting infrastructure. Direct attack on key industries and resources would offer an effici