iss the idea of a contest for air superiority, he argued that it would be won in the course of operations against enemy vital centers. In his May 1928 memorandum to the Chiefs of Staff Sub-Committee, he ex- plained that, unlike the other services, an air force was not bound in war to destroy first the opposing force. Instead, “the object to be sought by air action will be to paralyse from the very outset the enemy’s productive centres and munitions of war of every sort and to stop all communica- tions and transportation.” Harking back to the Great War, the CAS argued that “the stronger side, by developing the more powerful offen- sive, will provoke in his weaker enemy increasingly insistent calls for the protective employment of aircraft. In this way he will throw the enemy on to the defensive . . . and air superiority will be obtained, and not by direct destruction of air forces.” He argued further, “The great centres of manufacture, transport and communications cannot be wholly pro- tected. The personnel ... who man them are not armed and cannot shoot back. They are not disciplined and it cannot be expected of them that they will stick stolidly to their lathes and benches under the recur- ring threat of air bombardment. . . . Each raid spreads far outside the actual zone of the attack. Once a raid has been experienced, false alarms  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 95  are incessant and a state of panic remains in which work comes to a standstill.”** This refrain persisted. Two years into the Second World War, Air Vice-Marshal Sir John Slessor, commanding a bomber group, wrote the following to his crews: “[B]y . . . attacking in widely different parts of Germany on successive nights you spread the moral effect not only of the actual attacks but of the air-raid warnings in all districts over which you pass. You know Lord Trenchard’s slogan ‘keep the Germans out of bed, keep the syrens blowing,’ and there is the devil of a lot in it.”  The idea that one could “throw” the e