Early in 1943 the Americans already had begun to raise the percent- age of incendiary bombs used in the bomb “mix” dropped on enemy targets. In a memorandum of 26 April 1943, Arnold pointed out that the Eighth Air Force would use incendiaries for (1)“burning down suit- able precise industrial objectives” (when a more lasting degree of de- struction could be obtained than with a similar tonnage of high explo- sive bombs); (2)“starting fires by day in the densely built-up portions of cities and towns to serve as beacons for the RAF to exploit at night”; and (3)“burning down the densely built-up portions of cities and towns by day attack alone when the occasion warrants.”  Arnold’s concerns about phrasing aside, the simple fact was that the USAAF was resorting to area bombing. Though the fundamental intent of the campaign remained different from that of the RAF, its practical effects were now identical on many occasions. In periods of sustained bad weather, overall American accuracy was no better than—and often worse than—that of Bomber Command. In nonvisual bombing under- taken between October and December of 1943, for instance, the US- AAF achieved accuracy rates no better than those documented by the RAF’s 1941 Butt Report.  While the American crisis over escorts was at its peak, Sir Arthur Harris was meanwhile engaged in the aerial attack on Berlin. As ever, he remained uninterested in searching for key nodes (“panaceas”) in the German industrial structure. Encouraged by the weight of the raids his force had been able to inflict in previous months, Harris continued to hold out hope of a German collapse due to the sheer devastation of unrelenting city bombing. His successes in the summer of 1943 seemed to mitigate in favor of his case: heavy strikes like the one that engulfed Hamburg in fire made conceivable the idea that he might indeed be closing in on his objective.  No one believed this more than Harris himself. By early November 1943 he believed he was rounding