he French bombing units, the Luxeuil Wing was hindered by aircraft production problems and adverse weather.”  Decisions about the allocation of resources and the missions to be carried out by aircraft created an ongoing source of tension between the army and navy in Britain. Field Marshal Sir Douglas Haig, Commander- in-Chief of the British Expeditionary Force since December 1915, natu- rally wanted every available aircraft for use at the Somme. The govern- ment attempted, largely without success, to mediate these conflicts and rationalize the use of aviation.” Haig’s objections to the naval bombing program finally terminated the work of the No. 3 Naval Wing; not only did Haig feel that it threatened his ability to run a centrally controlled offensive, but he also remained unconvinced that the bombing had any significant impact on the ground war. He cited an increase in German aviation units all along the front, and cast doubt on the idea that the Luxeuil bombing had reduced German steel output. The Admiralty countered that their strategic campaign could claim a significant moral effect upon the Germans.” The winding up of the Luxeuil operations in April 1917 meant that the army-navy debate over the impact of bomb- ing would remain unresolved, at least for the time being.  While the RNAS had focused much of its attention on long-distance bombing, the Royal Flying Corps had kept its focus squarely on aiding the ground war. In 1914, the RFC had sent four squadrons to France with the British Expeditionary Force. Sir David Henderson, Director- General of Military Aeronautics (DGMA), was the first commander of the field force in France, with Col. Frederick Sykes as his chief of staff. The remnants of the RFC left behind in England were overseen by Lt. Col. W. S. Brancker and Maj. Hugh Trenchard. In mid-November 1914 the latter arrived on the continent, commanding a new wing attached to Haig’s First Army. By the summer of 1915 Trenchard, by then a briga- dier general, had