f defense.” Jones, like the members of the RAF field survey, was impressed by the idea that air raid alarms had caused disruption and impaired production in Germany. Though he admitted that “the effect on the morale of the workers was uneven” (being much more significant where at least one prior raid had had some impact), he fully accepted that Trenchard’s scattered raids had helped to undermine the will of the German people.””  Both the postwar assessments and the official history reflected a set of assumptions that their authors believed to be valid. These were condi- tioned by widely held prewar expectations about the likely effects of aerial bombing, and by mirror imaging that projected interpretations of the British experience of being bombed onto interpretations of the Ger- man experience. But institutional factors were at work here as well. Because Trenchard continued to have influence over the assessment pro- cess, there is no doubt that the documents pronouncing a verdict on the effectiveness of RAF bombing were strongly influenced by the field com- mander’s desire to justify and defend his record, and to protect the au- tonomy of the RAF. His imprimatur was evident throughout: the phras- ing and editing of both the wartime assessments and the postwar survey reflected his preferences and prerogatives. And the tone of these, subse- quently, was adopted by supportive official historians. On this founda- tion Trenchard, as Chief of Air Staff in the 1920s, would develop the declaratory policy of his young service. And from this, further expecta- tions would evolve.  The U.S. Survey  At war’s end Lt. Col. Edgar S. Gorrell oversaw a history of the Air Service in wartime and a “Final Report” for General Pershing. Though it acknowledged that tactical bombing of troops had a “great effect,” the absence of any reference to independent bombing operations re- flected the American wartime experience and the American position after the armistice.” Nonetheless, the Americ