ut, as the official historian of the battle of Britain explained dryly, it “seems to have caused the enemy no serious embarrassment.”  Though engaged in a close-run thing, RAF fighters managed to pre- vail in the air battle over British skies. Victory was due to prewar atten- tion to air defense, scientific and technological advances, the dogged determination of Fighter Command, and some crucial German errors. The Luftwaffe, headed by the rash, self-indulgent Hermann Goring, dis- covered that waging a successful air offensive was no simple matter. Paradoxically, however, the Luftwaffe failure did not seem to blunt the Air Staff’s enthusiasm for its own planned air offensive: the latter man- aged to convince themselves that the Germans had misused their re- sources. The German bombers of 1940-41, they argued, could not  188 CHAPTER 4  match the ordnance payloads of the heavy British bombers then in the works. And the Germans would not hold up very well under air attack: taking the war to Germany would undermine the “gloss of national unity” that the Nazis had labored to create.’ Perhaps under the circum- stances, this attitude was not surprising. Britain was in a desperate situ- ation: the bombers provided the only means of offensive action against Germany. Looking stoically ahead, the British kept themselves from de- spair by cultivating a selective blind spot. As one historian has argued, “[T]he Air Staff, and indeed the government, were sustained by a faith wholly at variance with the known facts of the situation.” Through the summer, however, reality often intruded on grasping optimism. Oil targets proved very difficult to find and hit with any reliability. Sir Charles Portal complained to the Air Staff that his force was incapable of performing all of its tasks. In particular, he believed neither that his force could consistently hit oil targets, nor that its light scale of attack against such targets could generate worthwhile results. He argued that for tactica