any to try to reopen the possibility of disarmament—that the Luft-  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 113  waffe already had achieved parity with the RAF and would seek parity with the Red Air Force. Confusion dominated the scene; as Wesley Wark has pointed out, “There were inconsistencies in the record of what Hitler had said, doubts about the standard of British strength . . . and little clarity about what was actually meant when Hitler boasted of air parity.”"* Further exacerbating the situation was volatile British public opinion, which vacillated between alarm and pacifism. Nonethe- less, when the tempest was over both the government and the Air Min- istry chose not to take Hitler’s parity claim literally.  But the episode had heightened tensions and exacerbated the concern of the Foreign Office. Mussolini’s invasion of Abyssinia hardly created a hopeful mood; in general, militarism was casting an increasingly omi- nous shadow over global affairs—European affairs in particular. Though the Air Ministry did not wish to create a hollow force, the external criticism could not fail to have some impact. In addition, the Air Staff began to concern itself increasingly with overall German in- dustrial potential, and its ramifications for German air power. When expansion Scheme F was accepted in early 1936, its goal was to see the completion of a 1,500 aircraft frontline force by April 1937, and the completion of a 1,736 aircraft frontline force by 1939. It represented a compromise between RAF priorities, growing alarm, and the continued desire to deter without undue provocation; but this collection of aims insured that none of them could be achieved particularly well.” The RAF won its case on two points, making full provision for reserves and creating new bomber types: light bombers were to be replaced by me- dium bombers and heavy mediums. This trend favoring heavier, longer- range aircraft—a first step in closing the gap between RAF declaratory policy and capabilities—would l