aircraft types were changed over and over; plans were drawn up but never implemented. Ironically, the grandiose American aircraft produc- tion goals had as their primary effect an urgent stimulation of 1917 German aircraft production efforts, the Amerikaprogramm." By the end of 1917 it was clear that American promises to the Allies would have to be scaled back dramatically. In their brief seven months on the front, American pilots flew foreign airplanes—mainly French—the vast majority of the time. The American contribution to the Allied aviation effort was felt primarily in the production of training planes (especially the Curtiss JN or “Jenny”) and engines (the Liberty engine being the most successful and extensively used)." Public frustration and disillu- sion expressed itself in congressional investigations: the verdict was that poor organization and incompetence, rather than fraud and conspiracy, were at the root of the problem.*”  The energetic and often flamboyant Col. William (Billy) Mitchell, who would become the most influential American aviator of the war, arrived in Europe in late April 1917, well ahead of the Bolling Commis-  52 CHAPTER 1  sion.” Sent over as an aeronautical observer, Mitchell took himself di- rectly to the front. In May he spent several days with Trenchard, who stressed the importance of taking and maintaining the offensive in air warfare—even reading aloud his 1916 memorandum on the subject.”” Mitchell served as Air Officer, American Expeditionary Forces (AEF) until 3 September 1917 when he was made Air Service Commander, Zone of Advance, under Gen. William Kenly, Chief of Air Service, AEF. In November, Kenly was replaced by Brig. Gen. Benjamin Foulois, fresh from the United States with a staff contingent—mostly nonflyers—to organize the Air Service in Europe in support of Gen. John J. Pershing’s AEE. Mitchell looked upon Foulois’s staff as interlopers, labeling them “carpet-baggers” with neither the experience nor the credentials to r