prise a significant portion of the American effort in Europe. But Arnold, mindful of American public opinion and comparisons with the British, warned against the use of the term “blind bombing,” as he believed it gave “both the military and the public the wrong impression.” He preferred phrases like “overcast bombing technique,” or “bombing through overcast.”*  The urgent need the Americans felt to bomb through cloud meant that they would rely heavily on their few B-17s equipped with the H2X (derived from Britain’s H2S) radar bombing aid. The H2X planes, equipped earlier in the autumn, served as pathfinders for American bomber groups. But there were problems with the H2X program, espe- cially at its outset. American crews and commanders thought of them- selves as part of a visual bombing force, and they resisted the imposi- tion of new methods. Commanders, when called on to furnish crews for H2X training, often sent their poorest personnel. Pathfinder crews tended to be overworked and, initially at least, overburdened with extra duties and debriefings. Inadequate maintenance of the highly technical equipment (exacerbated by a lack of parts and maintenance personnel) was common, leading to equipment failures. And the aircraft in which H2X was installed were sometimes substandard. While some of these problems were solved, others lingered.* In February 1944, General  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 229  Doolittle remarked that hitting a precision target with H2X “has been largely luck.” He added, “Ordinarily bombs are scattered over at least ten times as much area as with visual bombing. It is analogous to shoot- ing into a flock of ducks rather than selecting your duck.” Overall, American crews never became as skilled as their British counterparts when bombing on instrument.”  Early in 1943 the Americans already had begun to raise the percent- age of incendiary bombs used in the bomb “mix” dropped on enemy targets. In a memorandum of 26 April 1943, Arnold pointed out that t