ary; it spurred the government to action. On 11 July the War Cabinet ap- pointed a committee of two, Prime Minister David Lloyd George and the well-respected General Jan Christian Smuts of South Africa, to re- view the situation and make recommendations. Lloyd George left the work to Smuts, who first turned his attention to air defense organiza- tion, and then, in a second report, addressed the issue of counterattack." The latter, articulating a futurist vision of the yet unrealized power of aerial operations, argued for a radical change in British aviation organi- zation: the creation of an independent air arm emphasizing a counter- offensive through long-range bombing. Smuts used language that re- flected expectations and anticipations far more than existing realities:  Unlike artillery, an air fleet can conduct extensive operations far from, and independently of, both army and navy. As far as can at present be foreseen there is absolutely no limit to the scale of its future independent war use. ‘And the day may not be far off when aerial operations with their devasta- tion of enemy lands and destruction of industrial and populous centers on a vast scale may become the principal operations of war, to which the older forms of military and naval operations may become secondary and subordi- nate."  Smuts had been assured that sufficient surplus aircraft would be available in 1918 to constitute such a strategic bomber force.'"* The War Cabinet, on 24 August accepted all of Smuts’s recommendations in principle. So long as the army and navy were promised enough air strength to meet their own requirements (and they were), they could not easily delay or circumvent the report." This did not mean, however, that they favored restructuring British defenses in the middle of a war. Many in their ranks feared that the creation of an independent third service would waste resources or divert them to sideshows. Neither Trenchard nor Haig, for instance, was the least bit enthusiasti