present serving in the Royal Flying Corps is suitable for long distance day bombing.” Trenchard concluded by stressing that all air work had to be centrally coordinated. “It is essen- tial,” he wrote, “that one hand and one brain should have a firm grip of these difficult operations as a whole, and there ought to be no doubt in the mind of any pilot as to the source from which his orders spring.”"”  His insistence on virtually sole control over bombing operations would, inevitably, bring him into conflict with his colleagues. Sykes in particular had greater ambitions for strategic bombing than Trenchard did. In addition, Sykes’s staff in London was made up of men with practical experience of aerial bombing; they believed that their profes- sional advice and insights merited serious consideration. Two of the most important were Brig. Gen. P.R.C. Groves, appointed to head the Air Staff’s Directorate of Flying Operations (DFO), and Maj. Lord Tiverton (later, second Earl of Halsbury), who served under Groves. The latter may legitimately be considered one of the first true analysts of air warfare.’ Tiverton articulated a comprehensive concept of long- range bombing in a paper he wrote on 3 September 1917, two months ahead of Trenchard’s memorandum. At the time, he was serving with the naval section of the British Aviation Commission in Paris, as techni- cal liaison officer with the French. He identified key target sets, listed geographically: the Mannheim region because it produced chemicals, especially nitrates; Diisseldorf and Cologne because of their machine shops; and the Saar Valley because of its steel works. Tiverton also eval- uated a number of crucial operational issues: the location of bases; con- straints imposed by weather; navigation; the number of machines re- quired and the number of sorties one could expect from each machine; and the transport and storing of bombs."” He insisted that for bombing to have its greatest possible effect (either moral or materi