sts.” The stage was set for a change in leadership. Before that change was effected, however, a new bombing directive came to dominate Bomber Command’s operations. It represented the culmination of momentum that had been building since 1940—momentum guided by Portal all along the way. On 14 February 1942, Bomber Command was directed to attack area targets with the aim of undermining “the morale of the enemy civil population and in particular, of the industrial workers.” The directive suggested that, “This is the time of year to get the best effect from concentrated incendiary attacks.” Only in late October did the Air Ministry finally get around to revising formally its policy regard- ing the rules of bombardment to be adhered to by field commanders. Restrictions that had applied at the outset of the war—and still per- tained to bombing in occupied territory—no longer applied to Germany itself: “Consequent upon the enemy’s adoption of a campaign of unre- stricted air warfare, the Cabinet have authorised a bombing policy which includes the attack of enemy morale.”*  A week after the 14 February directive was issued, Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Harris took the helm of Bomber Command. Harris had ac- quired a reputation as a man of action able to work toward a goal with great energy and determination. During the interwar years he had amassed an impressive record as a commander who paid attention to the technical and operational details often overlooked by others. In the opening days of World War II, he gained crucial combat experience as the head of Bomber Command’s No. 5 Group. Then, from late 1940 to mid-1941, he served as Deputy Chief of Air Staff, where he developed further insight into the problems facing Bomber Command and took a  198 CHAPTER 4  special interest in the technical issues involved. Before being brought in to lead Bomber Command, Harris served as the head of an RAF delega- tion to the United States.”  Though very much a product of Trenchard’s RAF, Ha