he real drawbacks of one bad option moderates apparent costs when one must be chosen anyway. Either strategy, however, leads to a mistaken assessment of at least one choice, and a tendency to overlook poten- tially important information. The higher the stakes—the more repug- nant or the more attractive the options—the greater the stress and the greater the tendency to misperceive.  When a choice between unattractive alternatives cannot be post- poned, avoided, or miscast, the result can be especially stressful. The process of such decision making is often so onerous as to create power- ful barriers to reconsideration, even when new information casts doubt on the initial choice’s validity. Thus, rather than revisit the original choice, decision makers discount, misinterpret, or ignore new informa- tion bearing on that choice. Finally, in addition to seeing what we ex- pect to see, and not seeing what we find too stressful to absorb, we often see what it is in our interest to see. Decision makers with powerful organizational goals or self-interests may discount or minimize incom- ing information that conflicts with those interests, and highlight infor- mation that supports them. This may reflect cynicism or deliberate mis-  6 INTRODUCTION  representation of the facts, but, more commonly, these strongly felt de- sires have a subtler effect, coloring our interpretation of data in ways we may not fully recognize.  Alll of these information-processing biases influenced thinking about strategic bombing in Britain and the United States, and in the narrative that follows I draw attention to the places where their influence and effect are most evident. In writing this book, I have relied on a combi- nation of extensive primary source research, a comparative perspective, attention to the social and intellectual context in which planners and policymakers worked, and a sensitivity to the insights derived from the concepts outlined above. By examining British and American ideas t