high enough for Chief of Air Staff Sir Charles Por- tal to insist that the statistics be confined to “the smallest number of people.” In the early months of 1943, only 17 percent of Bomber Com- mand crews could be expected to complete the required thirty-mission tour of duty, and the life expectancy of new bombers was only forty hours flying time. Bomber Command was held together by the courage and determination of its crews.'  Competing claims and rivalry between the British and the Americans had characterized the closing months of 1942, as various interested par- ties in the bombing debate sought to assert the soundness of their own ideas and to lobby for influence. Clashes over how best to utilize bombers would become a central feature of the Anglo-American air campaign, and these would become particularly intense during the latter stages of the war. Harris would continue his steadfast commitment to city bombing and would lose no opportunity to convince those around him that his path was the correct one. Other Allied air commanders would survey a wider range of options, looking for whatever clues to German vulnerability they could find in available intelligence informa- tion. In the Far East, the Americans would first try to pursue the selec- tive targeting of key industries, but poor results and the attractions of applying fire techniques to vulnerable Japanese cities would move the American Twentieth Air Force toward the prosecution of a campaign that, in practice, had little to distinguish it from Bomber Command’s nighttime city raids over Germany.  IDEAS AND REALITIES: THE COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE IN 1943  British doubts about daylight “precision” bombing made the Americans all the more determined to press the case for it. The issue was taken to  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 215  the January 1943 Casablanca conference on Allied grand strategy. In a presentation to Churchill, Gen. Ira Eaker lobbied hard for the American position. His briefing text was designed t