en Churchill met Stalin in mid-August, news about the progress and prospects for Bomber Command was the only thing that pleased and brightened the Soviet leader who felt, otherwise, that the British were not making a significant enough contribution to the war effort.'”  Like Churchill, Harris dreaded the thought of sending men back to the continent to fight a ground war against the Germans; unlike Churchill, Harris believed that Bomber Command—given the right sup- port and resources—could win the war entirely on its own. But this would require that Bomber Command be free of the influence of those Harris derisively called the “diversionists”: those who, he believed, were frittering away Bomber Command’s potential on operations other than city bombing. Many of these “diversionists” were from the other ser- vices, but Harris had even more disdain for those lurking inside Air Staff offices. Hoping for a sympathetic ear from the old air marshal who had been through it all, Harris would tell Trenchard, “I sometimes  202 CHAPTER 4  wish you could do something to help us to get the Air Ministry as a whole more bomber offensive minded. Our greatest difficulties and our greatest opposition . . . arise surprisingly enough in the Air Ministry.”**  Harris’s dislike and distrust of the other services was so strong that he had great difficulty accepting their claim on RAF assets, even for urgent causes. Those air commanders who, early in the war, had gained diverse experience had an easier time than Harris seeing the war effort as a joint utilization of resources, rather than a competition for them. Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Tedder, for instance, had had no alternative but to learn to get along with the other services while he served in the Middle East and the Mediterranean. Maj. Gen. Carl A. Spaatz, who would later head the U.S. Strategic Air Forces in Europe (USSTAF), had his early war experience forged in a similar way."”  In mid-June 1942, Harris sent the prime minister a p