he Foreign Office had cooperated in the task of creating suitable leaflets.** Hopes that this effort would have some discernible impact on Germany proved to be greatly mistaken, however. Instead, the missions told of the difficulties of finding distant cities, the constant battles with weather, and the physical discomforts crews would encounter in such operations. Crews were sent out with maps, astro-sextants, and directional radio. With these means, which required a high degree of skill to use effectively, they were expected to find their way about; in essence, crews were expected to navigate at night by observation—an all but impossible task under the weather conditions so frequently prevailing. The interwar lack of attention to navigation told heavily. RAF crews mistakenly overflying and crashing on neutral Belgian, Dutch, and Danish territory led to a temporary ban on nighttime leaflet drops.* But the missions made clear something else: the relative absence, at night, of enemy fighters, and the comparative ineffectiveness of anti-aircraft fire, even at middle heights. This, along  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 185  with the shift away from the Ruhr plan, provoked the first steps in the conversion of Bomber Command to a night attack force.  At the same time, some elements of Trenchardian thinking were al- ready working themselves back into planning. A variant of W.A.S, pre- pared in January 1940 without any pretense of overriding earlier ver- sions, pointed out that Bomber Command might be best served in the near term by a night offensive designed for maximum moral effect. Its authors looked to dispersed harassing attacks at night to disrupt indus- trial production and disturb the population generally. Like Trenchard, they presumed that continuous air raid warnings would have an impor- tant cumulative impact on the nerves of the German people. Though they recognized that they were placing their faith in an “imponderable factor”—the will and morale of the German