he time of the armistice, however, Tren-  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 71  chard had only one fighter squadron attached to the IF. Existing aircraft were tied up with the ongoing German offensive, and continued pro- duction problems slowed the pace of new construction.’  Trenchard sought, on repeated occasions, to persuade his colleagues to provide him with increased numbers of fighters to aid the work of the IF. In a letter to Sykes of 4 August 1918, for instance, he requested fighter squadrons “to drive the Hun fighter scouts still further back into their own country.” He also discussed the possibility of using some bombers as fighting machines, and of increasing the armament on bombers so that they would be better able to protect themselves. But until such steps could be taken, he argued, his best recourse was “to try to educate everybody to think as I do, i.e., that if we bomb them harder than they do us this is the best and only defence.” He concluded, “I want you to impress upon all your people at home and upon everybody else you can that we must not be allowed to become a defensive force.”* The Air Staff in London, also concerned about the problem, suggested that the GOC, IF employ massed bomber formations for greater self- protection. This solution had its limitations since the IF was under- strength to begin with, but it at least implied that Trenchard might have rethought his tactics.’ Short of this, he chose to make do, ultimately falling back on his predilection to “bomb them harder than they do us.”  After the war, Trenchard downplayed the bomber escort issue; he in- stead argued that the key to a successful bombing campaign was to press it harder than the enemy by maintaining a constant offensive with the bombers available. Writing at the outset of the Second World War, aviation author J. M. Spaight recalled Trenchard once telling him that “ten bombers can be made to do the work of thirty, or of a hundred. All that is needed is to send them in again and a