they promptly added “When control of the air has been gained, then military objectives other than the hostile air force will receive increasing attention, including perhaps political capitals and centers of popula-  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 159  tion.” They added that “political considerations will govern, and war- fare of terrorization will probably be conducted only as a matter of reprisal.”"* But these equivocal statements left plenty of room for spec- ulation, and opinions varied. Some commentators handled the issue very delicately. Maj. B. Q. Jones, lecturing on the role of the GHQ Air Force, argued, “In opposition to Europe, we have no belligerent neigh- bors. And, if we ever did have trouble with them, we would most assur- edly hang back on the employment of any weapon that might jeopard- ize the lives and beings of their defenseless women and children. America doesn’t wage war that way.”"”  Grappling over how to wage a future war manifested itself in the “Air Force Objectives” section of the 1934-35 “Air Force” text. The authors argued that the “interlaced social, economic, political and mili- tary divisions of a nation acquire a state of absolute interdependence during war. Offensive action in one of these spheres will produce sym- pathetic disturbances of varying intensity in all the others.” Under the heading “the social sphere,” the authors examined both direct attack on population centers and direct attack on those targets “upon which the social life of the nation depends for its existence.” They postulated, “Civilization has rendered the economic and social life of a nation it creasingly vulnerable to attack. Sound strategy requires that the main blow be struck where the enemy is weakest.” In rhetoric reminiscent of contemporary RAF proclamations, the authors wrote, “The object here is the dislocation of normal life to the extent that the people are willing to surrender in the hope that they can at least regain a normal mode of living. Large urb