in the 1920s had conditioned most American airmen to accept that a General Headquarters Air Force (GHQ), a centrally controlled aerial strike force, would be the best or- ganizational arrangement that they could achieve in the short run. Mo- bilization plans of the 1920s had assigned attack, pursuit, and observa- tion aircraft to armies, and observation units to army corps, for the support of ground troops. The plans also called for a GHQ Air Force of 2,300 aircraft under an air officer who would report directly to the commander in chief in the field. As one historian explained, this GHQ  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 143  existed only as “a vague ‘something’ that would come into being when the army took the field for defense of the United States.”  High-ranking officers in other branches of the army had also been growing gradually more aware of the combat potential of aircraft. They understood that the Air Corps desired greater freedom, but they were also concerned about their own service priorities and budgets. They were inclined to believe that the Air Corps might be appeased by a GHQ Air Force arrangement. Thus, the early 1930s saw progress to- ward the centralization of combat aircraft in an increasingly formalized GHQ. By 1932 the War Plans Division of the General Staff viewed the GHQ Air Force (Provisional) as incorporating all bombardment, attack, and pursuit aviation, as well as some observation. Soon after, the War Department approved and formed the GHQ Air Force (Provisional) for maneuvers in May 1933, establishing a GHQ office in Washington in October. Finally, a permanent GHQ Air Force was approved in March 1935."  A number of developments contributed to this outcome. The first cen- tered on a January 1931 agreement between Army Chief of Staff Doug- las MacArthur and Chief of Naval Operations William V. Pratt, which sought to settle the hotly contested question of how to define and delin- eate the functional responsibilities of the army and navy regar