ll, that concentrated daylight attacks on single vital systems (like fighter factories) “are likely to have produced within that industry far in excess of the sum of the visible damage.” Like Harris, General Arnold was convinced that photos of bomb damage did not reveal the whole story. In an October 1943 talk to a conference of editors, writers, and news broadcasters in Washington, he argued, “You can’t always mea- sure damage done by what you see in the photograph.”  If the Americans and the British were taking heart from similar hopes and were working toward the same ends, they nonetheless utilized dif- ferent means. In contrast to Harris, General Eaker was interested in the quest for efficiency through the careful selection of targets. In an Octo- ber 1942 letter to General Spaatz, he had written optimistically, “I be- lieve it is clearly demonstrated that the efficiency of day bombardment over night bombardment is in the order of ten to one.” He told Spaatz that he anticipated losses, but he saw no evidence to indicate that “losses will be of such a high order as to make day bombing uneco- nomical.”* Eaker fully endorsed the work of the operations analysts whose efforts had been utilized in the preparation of the Pointblank directive; indeed, he called their efforts “eminently sound” and their report “a magnificent piece of work.”** He welcomed attempts to ra- tionalize the targeting process, and he sought the kind of analytical ad- vice and input that Harris consistently shunned.  Of course, the bomber offensive Eaker sought to undertake was in many respects the same one the British had hoped to wage in 1940-41. The failure of the British to fly successfully in daylight did not deter the Americans who were convinced that they would succeed where the Brit-  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 223  ish had failed.’ As we have seen, initial USAAF raids were limited in both range and scope, and they rarely challenged targets the Germans felt compelled to defend. The concent