. Lingering hopes still ex- isted in one form or another, but by the autumn of 1944, Portal and his staff were increasingly inclined to focus their efforts in a new direction. Now that reliable intelligence sources seemed able to identify targets with the potential to cripple Germany—and now that Bomber Com- mand was capable of significantly aiding in the attack of those targets— did it not make sense to embrace a new approach? In the absence of perfect information, all the parties in the debate were guessing. But Por- tal and his associates at the Air Ministry felt, increasingly, that their guesses were better informed than Harris’s. And by this time they may very likely have felt, as well, that they had an obligation to protect Bomber Command’s reputation for the postwar world, when wartime passions would die down and the area bombing policy would be scruti- nized on grounds of both efficiency and morality."  For some time Portal had suspected that Harris was using an out-  248 CHAPTER S  moded conception of Bomber Command’s capabilities as an excuse to continue city bombing. The CAS, as we have seen, had already chal- lenged Harris on this earlier in the year, with results foreshadowing the strong record Bomber Command would amass prior to D-day. But Por- tal was not convinced that Harris had taken these lessons to heart. His poor showing against oil in October aroused Air Staff concern that he was not committed enough to the letter and spirit of the new directives. The weather had indeed been bad, but Portal feared that Harris’s strate- gic preferences were coloring his tactical decisions.  Bottomley reminded Harris of his obligation, under the existing direc- tive, to attack oil and transport. And Portal sent Harris a memorandum by Tedder critiquing Bomber Command. If by this Portal had been looking to provoke a debate, his tactic worked. On 1 November, Harris sent back a lengthy response that argued, in no uncertain terms, for maintaining the area offensive. T