ly; they looked to be a concentrated and potentially lucrative target.’ Harris had sought to resist pressure on him—maintained by those he dismissively called the “Schweinfurt fans” —to attack the target. But the Americans were inter- ested. On 17 August 1943, to celebrate the first anniversary of USAAF operations in Europe, American bombers attacked the Schweinfurt anti- friction bearing plants and the Regensberg Messerschmitt factory. It would be the largest and costliest mission U.S. bomber crews had flown to date, with 16 percent of the force shot down. This, however, did not deter a second attack on Schweinfurt in the autumn. The raid of 14 October, which can only be considered a disaster for the Americans, finally brought an end to the theory of the self-defending bomber. Of the 291 bombers dispatched, 198 of them were shot down or damaged. Indeed, in four raids carried out over six days in October 1943, 148 American bombers had failed to return to their bases.**  In a press conference where he explained that 593 Americans had been lost in the second Schweinfurt raid, General Arnold nonetheless sought to put a positive face on things. He argued that the losses were worth the goal, since Schweinfurt’s production was essential to the Ger- man war effort. He pointed out, in what would prove to be a mistaken assumption, “We know the ball-bearing industry represents a potential bottleneck, for it is impracticable to assemble any considerable stockpile of ball-bearings.” Arnold also sought to reiterate the American commit- ment to “precision” bombing, pointing out that the bombing was un- dertaken “with the care and accuracy of a marksman firing a rifle at a bullseye.” The New York Times article conveying Arnold’s commentary also gave optimistic assessments by Sen. Sheridan Downey (D) of Cali- fornia, who insisted that full-scale bombing would “bring the Nazis to their knees in four months,” and by the USAAF’s Brig. Gen. Curtis LeMay, who asserted that Germany would