e situation helped fuel the sense of alienation and indeed persecution he felt by the end of the war."  In the meantime, the Americans were in the midst of their own tem- pest. On 17 February an Associated Press war correspondent had issued a dispatch (which had inexplicably cleared the censors) stating that the Allied air chiefs “had made the long-awaited decision to adopt deliber- ate terror bombing of German population centres as a ruthless expe- dient to hastening Hitler’s doom.” The story was widely circulated in the United States and to say the least it produced an awkward situa- tion."’ The USAAE, with one eye fixed firmly on a postwar struggle for service independence, had worked hard to maintain its image as a “pre- cision” or “pin point” force—an image frequently sought through com- parisons to the RAF. For instance, the USAAF’s glossy public relations magazine, Impact, consistently attempted to stress the distinction be- tween American and British bombing."  Members of the American press, who generally took a pro-air power stance and seemed to be enamored of the “precision bombing” image, rarely challenged the official USAAF interpretation of events, even as their stories described American bomb damage in terms of acres or square miles destroyed. Convinced, perhaps, that strategic bombing was the best possible substitute for costly ground battles of attrition, Ameri- cans were disinclined to demand more rigorous and searching analysis from reporters. During the war even liberal and religious journals of opinion were, generally, either supportive of or silent on American stra- tegic bombing. The New Republic for instance, largely dodged the issue of bombing from 1943 to 1945, publishing one article the purpose of which was simply to celebrate the capabilities of the B-29 bomber. In April 1943 the journal did, however, run a short news brief pointing out that two respected British papers (The New Statesman and The Tri- bune) had printed stories indicating t