rcept bombers. He argued, “There is consider- able doubt among the umpires as to the ability of any air organization to stop a well-organized, well-flown air force attack.” Back at ACTS, Lt. Kenneth Walker, a Billy Mitchell protégé and instructor of bombard- ment aviation from 1929-34, sanctified this idea in a pithy dictum: “A well-organized, well-planned and well-flown air force attack will consti- tute an offensive that cannot be stopped.”** Walker’s statement, much cited in subsequent years, succinctly captured an idea that would reach full flower at ACTS in the 1930s.  In the meantime, aviation had been advancing, paced by technology and human fascination with flight. Interwar air races and flying compe- titions captured the public’s attention and imagination, and helped spur developments in airframe construction and engine design. Long-distance flying established the airplane as a vehicle for transport and travel. As early as 1919, a crew led by noted Australian aviator Capt. Ross Smith had flown a Vickers Vimy to victory in the first England to Australia race. In 1927, Charles Lindbergh flew his small plane, alone and non- stop, from New York to Paris. The following year, Capt. Charles Kings- ford Smith crossed the Pacific. In 1931, Wiley Post and Harold Gatty circumnavigated the world in the Winnie May, and the following year Amelia Earhart became the first woman to fly the Atlantic alone. New records were also set by those seeking to take both balloons and aircraft higher than they had ever been taken before. While these break- throughs did not revolutionize attitudes toward military aviation, they did help to maintain an increasing background pressure for service au- tonomy by affirming the abilities and versatility of aircraft.  Slow progress toward autonomy in the 1920s had conditioned most American airmen to accept that a General Headquarters Air Force (GHQ), a centrally controlled aerial strike force, would be the best or- ganizational arrangement that