one to panic. Rather than attributing any differences in behavior to the structural problems in steerage (the smaller proportion of crew to passengers, the lack of information and language barriers, and the disadvantageous position of the third cabin within the ship), reporters and commentators systematically portrayed steerage panic as the result of class, ethnic, and racial predispositions.*  In both the United States and Britain, civil strife and industrial crises became endemic as laborers struggled for more humane working condi- tions; the problem was particularly acute on the eve of the First World War. In Britain frequent, bitter strikes—especially by miners and rail- waymen—were marked by unusual assertiveness.** Naturally, this at- mosphere fueled speculation about how workers would behave under the strain of war. Discussion and debate took place in both civilian and military realms; indeed, there was no clear separation between the two since the military operated squarely within the context of the broader society. Commentators worried that the subhuman conditions present in the nation’s congested industrial cities created weaknesses in the na- tional population that might cause fatal vulnerabilities in wartime.  Such worries were particularly evident in numerous lectures delivered to the Royal United Services Institution. T. Miller Maguire, in two 1909 lectures, associated what he called “the flotsam and jetsam of decaying British humanity” with the perversions of the factory system.* In a lengthy lecture given in November 1913, Maj. Stewart L. Murray, who worried that “popular passion” might trigger a war in the first place, concerned himself with the potential for civil strife generated by the rise of working-class radicalism during wartime. He argued that a major war might see the “explosion of those volcanic forces which underlie every modern democracy,” and urged that “unless steps are taken to prevent the hardships of war pressing intolerably upon th