all other demands imposed by the war. Nonetheless, the Chiefs of Staff  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 195  endorsed Trenchard in principle when they concluded that “the most vulnerable point in the German nation” is “the morale of her civilian population under air attack.” Since there was no chance that a force as large as Trenchard wanted could be built in the near term, the spirit of his dictum had to be reconciled with a small Bomber Command subject to frequent diversions from its preferred primary role." The new direc- tive, which called on Bomber Command to attack transportation and communications targets (in particular marshalling yards), was a com- promise: it satisfied those who wished to produce direct economic re- sults from bombing, and also those who wished to see indirect effects accrue, partly due to bombs missing their targets and falling in the built-up areas around railway stations. Issued on 9 July 1941, the direc- tive argued that the weak points in the German armor were the inland transport system and the morale of the civilian population. In addition, the Air Ministry resurrected (from the W.A. plans) a plan for burning German forests, instructing Peirse to carry out fire-raising attacks when the weather did not permit the attack of specific targets outlined in the new directive. Forest attacks, it was argued, would have both a material effect and a psychological effect “on the rural population who are not normally subjected to attack.”*'  New information arriving late in the summer of 1941 had the effect of pushing Bomber Command further in the direction that Portal had been trying to guide it. In August a photo-reconnaissance survey (the Butt Report) revealed that, despite aircrew claims, only about one in five crews were bombing within five miles of their intended targets. The report forced even the staunchest optimists to rethink the situation. Peirse was dismayed and discomfited.® The prime minister, who had begun harboring doubts about t