ises” rather than “the obliteration of German cities  220 CHAPTER S$  and their inhabitants as such.” He complained that, instead of stressing that the recently attacked city of Kassel “contained over 200,000 Ger- mans, many of whom are now dead and most of the remainder home- less and destitute,” official handouts emphasized that the Henschel lo- comotive works and various other important factory premises were in or near the city. “The result of this presentation,” Harris wrote, “espe- cially since the highly effective raids recently carried out by the VII Bomber Command which were aimed at specific factories, is inevitably to give the impression that Bomber Command is trying to do the same thing as the Americans, and is doing it comparatively ineffectively.”* This, he argued, compelled his crews to think that “the authorities are ashamed of area bombing.” Concluding his letter, he asserted that the aim of Bomber Command should be unambiguously stated as “the de- struction of German cities, the killing of German workers, and the dis- ruption of civilised community life throughout Germany.” He added, “It should be emphasised that the destruction of houses, public utilities, transport and lives; the creation of a refugee problem on an unprece- dented scale; and the breakdown of morale both at home and at the battle fronts by fear of extended and intensified bombing are accepted and intended aims of our bombing policy. They are not by-products of attempts to hit factories.”**  In mid-December, Street answered Harris, telling him that the Air Staff did not intend to change the orientation of publicity regarding Bomber Command operations. He explained, “No attempt has been made to conceal from the public the immense devastation that is being brought to German industrial cities.” But he added, “In all official com- muniqués and pronouncements, however, the emphasis is such as to bring out what . . . is an obvious truth, i.e., that the widespread devas- tation is not an e