nly on the timing of independence, not with the idea itself. But Weir’s influence was certainly crucial. He was able to chide Trenchard—petulant, embarrassed, and sitting idly in Green Park—and insist that he get back into the fight."* ‘As a condition of employment, Trenchard scrupulously arranged a di- rect relationship with Weir, allowing a great deal of freedom from Sykes and the Air Staff in London. This unusual arrangement would have important consequences since it would give Trenchard wide discretion in the operation of the Independent Force.'*  A window into Trenchard’s early thinking on long-range bombing can be discovered in a memo he wrote in late 1917, just before he departed his post as head of the RFC. At that time, he viewed long- distance bombing as a component of air warfare to be organized and run within the context of the army, as surplus resources permitted. He argued that it had a dual purpose: (a) to weaken the power of the en- emy directly “by interrupting his production, transport and organiza- tion through infliction of damage to his industrial, railway and military centres, and by compelling him to draw back his fighting machines to deal with the menace”; and (b) to weaken the enemy indirectly “by producing discontent and alarm amongst the industrial population.” He pointed out that “experience goes to show that the moral effect of bombing industrial towns may be great, even though the material effect is, in fact, small.”"%*  For Trenchard, long-distance bombing was part of the essential task of keeping the enemy on the defensive at all times. He pointed out that bombers needed to be specialized aircraft able to “beat off attack or be  38 CHAPTER1  escorted by other fighting machines with a large range of action.” But, he argued, “No machine at present serving in the Royal Flying Corps is suitable for long distance day bombing.” Trenchard concluded by stressing that all air work had to be centrally coordinated. “It is essen- tial,” he wrote,