quired and the number of sorties one could expect from each machine; and the transport and storing of bombs."” He insisted that for bombing to have its greatest possible effect (either moral or material), it had to be concentrated. Rear Adm. Mark Kerr echoed this emphasis on concen- tration: “Bombing to be effective must be done on a large scale and be continuous. Sporadic and small bombings only cause the enemy to pre- pare field defenses and dug-outs for personnel and material.”™  For Tiverton and others considering the problem at this point, it seemed self-evident that attacking the foundations of the German war economy would mean keeping war matériel out of the hands of the enemy. Their target lists included the Benz motor works, the Bosch magneto factory and aeroplane works, munitions works, petroleum re- fining stations and stores, and power stations." One observer argued, “A modern Army cannot fight without an adequate supply of munitions and therefore the strategy will be directed along the lines which will best destroy such supply. . . . In order to effect this, the root industries  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 39  in Germany, or if another word be preferred, the bottleneck of produc- tion must be attacked.” In a second paper on bombing written in November, Tiverton refined his target list, and sought the most efficient way for Britain to attack it. He prioritized the Badische Anilin und Soda Fabrik (BASF) at Ludwigshafen, the Meister Lucius works at Hoechst, and the Bayer works at Cologne—all of which produced synthetic ni- trates for explosives.’  If the material effect of bombing was prioritized by World War I Brit- ish staff planners, the moral effect was never very far behind. Its con- ceptualization and articulation varied somewhat, but general trends were discernable. Admiral Kerr argued that bombs missing factory tar- gets would often hit workers’ dwellings and thus reduce output indi- rectly: “If [workers] houses are hit it produces panic and lowers th