tions against industrial and communications targets well behind the lines. In all, the teams visited 140 towns, 60 percent of which were able to provide pertinent data. In other places, data were either not available or had been destroyed or taken away by retreating Germans. The teams produced sixty-five separate reports, a few of which surveyed more than one location. In addition, the survey included a concluding overview and suggestions for the future.”* Comparing the American survey to the British survey allows one to detect both the consistencies in and differ- ences between the two assessments. The Americans, because they fo- cused mainly on British and French bombing, could be reasonably ob- jective: no wartime claims had to be defended for the U.S. Air Service. For the most part, they reported damage matter-of-factly: estimates and monetary totals were drawn from factory and town records, police re- ports, and insurance claims. But the analytical methods employed by the Americans were no more sophisticated than those used by the Brit- ish, and American reports—like the British reports—were peppered with general and undefined phrases like “considerable damage.”  As most long-distance attacks involved only a limited number of planes dropping a handful of small bombs, extensive damage rarely re- sulted from any one raid.’ An exception that impressed itself on the Americans was the Thionville raid of 16 July 1918, where a bomb hit a munitions train and caused shells to explode, setting fire to the freight station and other buildings in the vicinity.” Besides such dramatic epi- sodes, the Americans obtained information on railway traffic delays as well as the average time needed for repairs. They reported that while  64 CHAPTER 1  bombing held up railway traffic at smaller stations, at larger stations more extensive marshaling yards allowed trains to maneuver around damaged tracks and stay more or less on schedule.”* The American survey concluded that the majority