on- ceptions. If Trenchard concerned himself mainly with the upheaval, dis- ruption, and dislocation caused by bombers getting into the general vi- cinity of a target, the Americans tended to keep their focus more on the  130 CHAPTER 3  nature of the damage that might be directly imposed on a given target. The destruction of the target itself—and the resulting impact on the enemy’s economic structure—mattered primarily.  Third, because the Americans had no direct experience of strategic bombing in World War I, they had no record to explain or protect in the interwar years. As we saw in chapter one, much of what the Ameri- cans learned about “strategical” bombing in World War I came from observing the experience of their allies, and from the bombing survey that they undertook independently at the end of the war. While they were strongly influenced by the British experience, American airmen de- veloped an approach to air warfare and strategic bombing that reflected their own circumstances and predispositions. For example, the Ameri- cans never distanced themselves so much as the British did from the assumption that the first objective in war would have to be the enemy air force. When they imagined air warfare, Americans generally envi- sioned large-scale counterforce operations through bomber attacks against the enemy air force on the ground (airfields, hangars), and through air-to-air combat waged by armed bombers flying in defensive formation.  Like the British, the Americans felt that victory in war came to the side able to undermine most effectively its enemy’s will to war. The Americans did not privilege the elusive “moral effect” of bombing in the same way that Trenchard did, and therefore it did not come to have the high-profile rhetorical role that it had in the RAE The Americans believed, however, that bombing did produce a “moral effect.” But though they discussed it throughout the interwar years, they never fully specified what it meant or how it might be q