ll indicated the lingering intuitive appeal of targeting for psychological effect, and the overwhelming desire to see the war brought to a prompt end. In- deed, USSTAF’s wide-ranging targeting choices for the month of Febru- ary revealed an almost desperate quest for a decisive use of strategic air power. One of the targeting priorities, in accordance with Tedder’s transportation plan, was railways. During the Normandy campaign, American bombers had dropped about nine tons of incendiaries per month on French rail yards. In contrast, they dropped roughly 600 tons per month on German rail yards between September 1944 and April  254 CHAPTER S$  1945. Of 38 marshaling yard raids (each containing more than 200 tons of incendiaries) flown between 1 January and 30 April 1945, fully 75 percent were blind."  ‘The centerpiece of the war in Europe in early 1945, however, was the Red Army’s move on Berlin. The Joint Intelligence Committee in Britain postulated that a heavy flow of refugees from Berlin coinciding with the westward trek of civilians fleeing the advance of the Soviet armies would create great confusion and would interfere with the movement of German armies to the battlefront. When DCAS Sir Norman Bottomley discussed it with Harris, the latter argued that Chemnitz, Leipzig, and Dresden might be added to Berlin as places where Bomber Command could apply pressure to the Germans on behalf of the Soviets. The issue developed urgency when Churchill became involved. The prime minister was then interested in the role that air would play in the endgame in Europe. He asked Sir Archibald Sinclair what plans the RAF had for “basting the Germans in their retreat from Breslau.” After some debate the Air Staff decided that, while oil should continue to be the priority target, poor weather intervals would create opportunities for attacks on eastern German cities such as Berlin, Leipzig, Chemnitz, and Dresden for the purpose of causing confusion and hampering the eastward movement