Staff as the “long- bowmen,” he challenged the auxiliary status of the Air Service, running a “bone-crushing interference” for the rest of the organization. Ulti- mately his tactics left a mixed legacy, but his flamboyant performances brought the debate over air power to the center of the national stage.”  Outspoken, impetuous, and stubborn, Mitchell rejected gradual change and compromise. Trenchard had noted, presciently, that Mitchell would go far “if he [could] only break his habit of trying to convert opponents by killing them.””” Believing that military changes come only after disas- ter in war or through public pressure, he assaulted the public with speeches, articles, books, and endless appearances before congressional committees. To challenge the dominance and self-perceived omnipo- tence of the navy, he staged a much-publicized series of air attacks on unmanned, stationary battleships in the summer of 1921. Mitchell be- lieved that the navy’s role as national “first line of defense” was soon to be wholly eroded by bomber aircraft. Only by possessing its own inde- pendently directed bomber fleet would the United States be able to re- main safe at home and project its interests abroad.  Mitchell advocated positions well beyond what the army was pre- pared to sanction. He insisted on a new paradigm for warfare based on the independent operations of aircraft. The forward to his 1921 book, Our Air Force, was a sustained plea for a Department of Aeronautics. His 1925 volume, Winged Defense, was in fact a manifesto for winged offense. His last book, Skyways, argued that defeating an industrialized enemy would mean controlling its vital centers, which consist of “cities where the people live, areas where their food and supplies are produced and the transport lines that carry these supplies from place to place.” An unabashed advocate, he asserted that any future war would com- mence with air battles: “[T]he nation winning them is practically certain to win the whole