defense preparations of any given state need to be assessed against other states at the time, not against an artificial standard re- moved from context. The RAF had not been starved of funding from the end of World War I onward; moreover, British defense budgets were not unreasonable in the political context of the late 1920s.® If the Trea- sury by 1926 gained an increased voice in strategic matters relative to the services, it was because policymakers deemed it appropriate. Equally, between 1924 and 1932, RAF procurement expenditure in- creased rather than declined, and in the mid-1920s, the Air Ministry spent a higher proportion of its total budget on research and develop- ment than did the Admiralty or the War Office.” Nor was the British aviation industry in dire shape. Clearly (and naturally) its size was much reduced after the war, but, as David Edgerton has pointed out, the situation had stabilized fairly quickly and, into the early 1930s the British aircraft industry was as large as any other in the world. (In the  88 CHAPTER 2  mid-1930s Britain, the United States, Germany, Italy, and France were the only net exporters of aircraft.) In 1940, the United Kingdom was the largest aircraft producer in the world.”  Churchill was right to argue that an era of restraint ought not to impede ideas and analytical thinking. The problems that the RAF faced in 1939 and 1940 were due less to reduced funding per se than to the failure to analyze thoroughly the requirements of its own declaratory policy, which had as its centerpiece a strategic bombing offensive at the outset of a major air war between industrialized states. Interestingly, the RAF in this period made more progress in thinking through the de- mands of air defense than those of a strategic air offensive, even though its public rhetoric stressed the latter. In the 1920s and early 1930s, the most important operational aspects of waging a strategic air campaign received inadequate attention, including those—like