dity to which, in statistical theory and for other reasons, it was hardly entitled.”” The Air Staff's math went largely un- questioned even though there were plenty of grounds for questioning it, and was maintained through the interwar years. As a result, the ques- tion of how to fill the requirement for enormous numbers of doctors, ambulances, and hospital beds became an unhappy and constant refrain for domestic planners. And, as the estimated tonnage of bombs deliver- able by the Luftwaffe grew throughout the thirties, the multiplier of fifty produced continually higher estimated casualties. Trenchard’s solu-  76 CHAPTER 2  tion, to bomb the other side harder, was of limited comfort at best to those approaching the issues from a civil defense perspective.  ‘THE “MORAL” AND THE “MATERIAL”  The Trenchardian notion that an enemy state could be thrown on to the defensive through bombing presumed that its government would be re- quired to devote more and more resources to civil protection in re- sponse to popular demands for it. Since it would be impossible wholly to control one’s own domestic population, the only way to cope would be to steal a march on the enemy and remain more aggressively commit- ted to a continuous aerial offensive. When pared back to its essential premises, the “relentless and incessant offensive” theory rested on the assumption that one’s own state, if possessed of an adequate air force and the right notions about how to use it, could be tougher and ulti- mately more determined than one’s enemy (who, presumably, would be attempting the same thing). Aiding in the effort to predominate would be any qualities of steadfastness and strength of character possessed by one’s population. These were, of course, relative rather than absolute: even if one’s own population possessed weaknesses and vulnerabilities, they needed only to be less than the enemy’s. Trenchard had to be able to argue that the British, despite inherent weaknesses, would not suc- cumb