cendiary bombs. His motive in writing the book was to bring the danger to the attention of the public, and to set up the conditions that might lead to international abolition of chemical weapons." Such dire predictions—official and literary—had the effect of encouraging liberals and pacifists to lobby hard for air disarmament. For instance, A. $. (Susan) Lawrence, an undersecretary in the Labour government of 1929, argued in 1927 that the government was obliged to make a serious and genuine commitment to aerial disar- mament. Citing the 1922 Groves articles, she asserted that there could be no defense against an attack that would produce such terror, disor- der, and disorganization as to “break up” London as a civil community in two to three hours. She estimated that millions would die, especially from gas attacks."  Lawrence’s arguments anticipated a wave of popular fiction on air and gas warfare that continued until the outbreak of actual war in 1939. The perfection of instruments of destruction was at the heart of S. Southwold’s 1931 book The Gas War of 1940, a tale set in the late summer of 1940: Germany attacks Poland and destroys France’s defen- sive fortifications; London is smashed by a succession of air raids, and all of the world’s great cities experience bombardment with high explo- sives and poison gas. Following closely in this genre were such interwar works as The Poison War, The Black Death, Menace, Empty Victory, Invasion from the Air, War Upon Women, Chaos, Air Reprisal, and What Happened to the Corbetts.'** The impact of these was augmented not only by the futurist scenarios being played in the (increasingly pop- ular) cinema, but also by the ominous and troubling events of the 1930s, including the Japanese attack on Manchuria, the Italian attack on Abyssinia, and the Spanish civil war.  By this time as well, the ideas of the Italian air enthusiast, Gen. Giulio Douhet, were becoming more widely known in English-speaking coun- tries, Douhet’s 1921 b