bove the heads of his colleagues, and directly to the masses. He had such faith in his convictions and found them so instinctively correct that he was confident the public, once roused to awareness, would rally to his cause.  But this did not happen. Though intrigued by Mitchell’s antics and exploits, the American public did not feel any corresponding urgency to demand a Department of Aeronautics over Army and Navy resistance. Indeed, following World War I many Americans felt a general revulsion to war (and preparation for war); this was accompanied by support for isolationism, later manifested in the Neutrality Acts of the 1930s, and vigorous investigation, under North Dakota Republican Sen. Gerald Nye, of “Merchants of Death” (an alleged collusion of bankers and munitions manufacturers). Nonetheless, Mitchell persisted. He was per- ceived as a gadfly by army leaders, and as “General of the Hot Air Force” by navy leaders.*  Another round of congressional interest in aviation matters (1923- 25) elicited further aggressive testimony from Mitchell, capped by a series of articles for the Saturday Evening Post. In the latter he argued that a powerful air force could make war a briefer, more humane, and cheaper affair by obliterating an enemy’s industrial centers.’ His examples presumed that all industrial states were essentially alike. As one scholar later explained, “he bestowed on the governments under attack a degree of rationality that ignored the war aims of the enemy and the possibility that the population would willingly suffer to avoid capitulation.”**  In 1925 the army, finally fed up with Mitchell’s maverick behavior, demoted him to colonel and assigned him to an obscure post in Texas. But this only pushed him to a more radical stand. He used the loss in a storm of the navy dirigible Shenandoah as a pretext for issuing a highly inflammatory statement to the press, indicting the War and Navy De- partments on charges of “incompetency, criminal negligence, and al