uch an evaluation, even though it would have been inexpensive and instructive.  Even though the Independent Force had little choice but to fly most  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 89  of its missions at night in 1918, scant interwar attention was given to the difficulties of night flying and night bombing. This oversight was especially problematical since, during the war, distances covered had been short, flying had been done at low level, and operations had been attempted only in relatively good weather. During the interwar years, the standard navigational technique taught and trained in the RAF was map reading. And yet the obvious practical difficulties of relying on maps when flying in darkness over large stretches of blacked-out terri- tory were never taken nearly so seriously as they should have been. Night flying training took place at the squadron level, and rather spo- radically at that. And the lessons provided by these few trials were rarely heeded at higher command levels.” In general, navigation train- ing was left to languish during the interwar years. No Air Ministry department had responsibility for navigation, nor was there a perceived need to train a special class of aviators for the task; pilots simply were expected to fly and navigate simultaneously. With no incentive or re- ward for proficiency in navigation, few airmen invested their time in it. The navigational knowledge of the wartime observers—many from the RNAS—was simply lost after the war. Celestial navigation, a common and important practice among civil airlines, was largely ignored in the RAF until the late 1930s. And though it was assumed that direction- finding wireless would play a large role in future operations, it was rarely practiced, and few studies were undertaken to assess its opera- tional shortcomings.”  Other important issues also received inadequate attention. These in- cluded bomber tactics, in particular: how bombers might defend them- selves, the types and calibre of guns the