of anxiety that nurtured alarmist prognostications and ultimately stirred support for the RAF in political circles. This atmosphere proved to be a growth medium for air force institutional interests, allowing Trenchard to stress the centrality of an aerial deterrent to British defense, and to rely on claims about the moral effect in relation to past and future air wars.  Trenchard was able to use his “twenty to one” calculation to good effect: after the war, echoing proclamations of the moral effect appeared consistently in official RAF memoranda, policy statements, essays, lec- tures, and examinations. In his December 1919 lecture to the Royal United Services Institution, Brooke-Popham would tell his audience that “[t]he material effect of bombs is ... small compared to its moral ef- fect, and I think most people will agree that bombing from aircraft has considerably greater moral effect than ordinary shelling. This of course applies with still greater force to towns and places far behind the line which, at any rate previous to the war, considered themselves immune from attack.” Likewise, the January 1921 Air Staff paper, “Air Power and National Security,” warned that in a future air war, the material damage would be great, but “the moral effect will be more far-reaching still.” Significantly, the authors argued, “The dislocation of national life and of the work of factories, the damage to centres of food supply . . . and the widespread fear of personal injury . .. may force us to comply with the demands of the enemy without a single surface action being fought.” The remedy, they explained, would lie in the prosecution of an  80 CHAPTER 2  aerial offensive designed to carry the war into the enemy state and force upon it a defensive role." Countless examples of such arguments are available to any researcher willing to delve even briefly into Air Staff documents of the early postwar years.**  Hewing to Trenchard’s line, the Committee of Imperial Defence’s first commi