had a “great effect,” the absence of any reference to independent bombing operations re- flected the American wartime experience and the American position after the armistice.” Nonetheless, the Americans, like the British, were intrigued by the potential of aviation, including strategic bombing. To preserve the history of the war, Gorrell coordinated and compiled a series of “lessons learned” reports from leading American aviators, and organized an investigative survey of Allied bombing efforts. For help, he  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 63  turned to the Intelligence Section (G-2), General Headquarters, AEF. The American field work, which did not coincide with that of the Brit- ish survey, was begun in early March 1919 and was concluded in late May. Twelve teams were formed, each consisting of one German-speaking officer and two enlisted men. They were directed to go to factories and towns looking for information on both the material and the moral ef- fect of bombing. The region surveyed was west of the Rhine and south of a line from Diisseldorf on the Rhine to Meziéres on the border be- tween Belgium and France. It contained all of the places bombed by the Americans (who never ventured more than about sixty miles from their base of operations), all of those bombed by the British except for a few cities east of the Rhine to which the Allies did not have access after the war, and some of the targets bombed by the French.”  While American bombing efforts had directly supported the St. Mi- hiel and Meuse-Argonne campaigns, discrete data on the effects of those efforts were hard to obtain after the war; it was especially difficult to distinguish the effects of aerial bombing from those of long-range artill- ery. Most of the American survey dealt with British and French opera- tions against industrial and communications targets well behind the lines. In all, the teams visited 140 towns, 60 percent of which were able to provide pertinent data. In other places, data were eith