ible for report- ing the results of the surveys. Under these circumstances, their flights into extrapolation are, perhaps, unsurprising.  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 61  The two wartime versions of A.P. 1225, which relied heavily on cap- tured letters and intelligence agents’ reports, had insisted upon the moral effect of bombing: “Though information as to results is increas- ingly hard to obtain, it is certain that the moral of the German popula- tion becomes lower as the range and power of our bombing squadrons increases.” As George K. Williams has argued, “the wartime editions of AP. 1225... had firmly established an analytical precedent for the widely cited third edition of January 1920.” Boyle’s staff, Williams argues, did not produce a comprehensive, analytical report based on “substantive analysis of captured materials or thorough cross-checking against R.A.F. wartime records.” A.P. 1225 (3rd ed.) was dedicated more to “advocacy than accuracy.”* An April 1919 Parliamentary paper, Command 100 (titled “Synopsis of British War Effort during the War”), trumpeted the official verdict on British bombing: “The effect, both morally and materially, of the raids on German territory carried out during the summer of 1918 can hardly be overestimated.”?°  But such glowing official British pronouncements contrasted with the more understated conclusions arrived at by the German General Staff. The Germans certainly had felt compelled to erect defenses to protect their population against long-range bombers, and they had seen their routines disrupted by Allied raids. But they determined that those raids had been neither a major threat to their population, nor a major hin- drance to German war production. A detailed General Staff study of all the Allied raids (undertaken in August 1918) revealed a number of im- portant insights. The German civilians who encountered bombers were initially fascinated by them, and most casualties occurred during initial attacks on cities when fascinat