gether dropped more than 130,000 tons of bombs—well over their combined total effort for the year in 1942, and just under the total tonnage Bomber Command had dropped for the year in 1943.2” Still, the Red Army had to batter its way into Berlin. Both the Tivertonian and Trenchardian theories had presumed that bombing would offer a shortcut to victory: a prompt and direct means of exploiting newly ex- posed enemy vulnerabilities. But both theories had underestimated the robustness of urban societies and economies, and the potential effective- ness of enemy defenses. And they had, similarly, overestimated the likely efficiency of strategic bombing itself.  288 CHAPTER S$  The difference between expectations and realities caused both the RAF and USAAF to make constant wartime adjustments to their plans, tactics, and machinery. The kinds of shifts they made were consistent with (and articulated in terms of) their individual circumstances and predilections, but in some cases the practical effects were nearly identi- cal. Most notably, both air forces moved toward much less discriminate forms of bombing than they had used in the opening phases of the war. The British translated the shift into a formal directive and brought in a field commander who believed in the new approach. The Americans avoided any explicit change in announced policy in Europe, and, to the greatest extent possible, clung to their self-identity as “precision” bombers. But they nonetheless grasped an expedient that frequently caused their efforts to be virtually indistinguishable from those of the British, and they experimented late in the day with aerial attacks de- signed to evoke a primarily psychological effect on the enemy. In the Far East, they adopted an operational policy that depended on area incendi- ary attacks against cities, thereby laying the groundwork for the later use of atomic bombs. The consequences of all these adaptations were profound; in addition to their immediate effects, they r