o enable them to clear away the misconceptions that exist in their own minds as to the Air Force Aim.”'* That this confusion and lack of consistency occurred inside the service as well as outside indicates that it was not just a problem of the other services caricaturing the RAF aim, but rather that the aim itself was unclear, as were the means of achieving it. In the interwar years, mantras about air power were advocated and repeated, but without much practical detail, especially in regard to counter—air operations and targeting. This odd combination of dogma and ambiguity left plenty of room for confusion.  The ADGB March exercise, with its attack of “thickly populated areas,” merely highlighted this problem. Joubert suggested that “[a]  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 101  common doctrine on the interpretation of the Aim as laid down in the manual should be stated by the Air Staff at the Air Ministry, and ac- cepted and worked to by all commands in all forms of training.” In his effort to help, he sent the Air Ministry examples of his own teach- ings, stressing those issues he thought most misunderstood. Though he attempted to tighten some definitions and to appease the other services, his language did not differ fundamentally from Trenchard’s. In one (rather remarkable) passage, he made an argument that almost certainly was influenced by an “air control” model: “What we desire to do is to make an area in which exists some organisation of a military nature so uncomfortable that nobody can work in it effectively. Actual killing is not in any way essential to our purpose. It is sufficient to indicate that if a certain course of action is pursued, death or maiming is likely to en- sue. ... It should not be necessary to use large numbers of aircraft, since the weight of bombs does not matter.” Finally, Joubert insisted that the RAF must avoid the fatal flaw of devoting too many resources to a defensive force. In a statement worthy of his pre-World War I predecessors, he wr