ver would have approved of a year earlier.’ Trenchard was clearly uneasy with the role that the press and the public were playing in the war; he felt they had forced an organizational change that made little military sense. But while he grumbled about it privately, he accepted the de- mands of the new reality. Indeed, Trenchard quickly proved himself highly attentive to press accounts of his work, and to national opinion generally. He understood that public expectation had made the IF the object of hopeful attention and critical scrutiny; he knew he would be expected to produce results and avenge the insults of the Gotha / Giant raids, Within two hours of taking up his new post—even before he had sent a telegram to the Air Ministry announcing he was officially in charge—Trenchard sent his first press release back home. He upgraded the communications links to England, and made a point of complaining whenever his press releases were not printed, or not followed verbatim in major English papers. The IF organized an extensive program of daily, weekly, and monthly news releases and dispatches for public con- sumption."  This public relations campaign, however, belied the IF’s meager re- sults. Trenchard’s first operational dispatch to Lord Weir (in July) ex- plained his strategy: to attack a large number of objectives “so as to force the enemy to disperse his defensive forces,” and then to bomb the same objective repeatedly. He complained thereafter that he was not able to undertake this program because of weather, engine troubles, and under-trained pilots. His small force had strictly limited capabilities, and his airfields (south of Nancy, France) were subpar.” In early Au- gust, Trenchard summarized (for Weir) his force’s second month in the field. After complaining about such obstacles as “high wind and cloud over the Rhine Valley,” he highlighted a few long-distance raids against Stuttgart, Mannheim, Zweibrucken, and Rottweil. Many of these raids involved only a han