AE The Americans believed, however, that bombing did produce a “moral effect.” But though they discussed it throughout the interwar years, they never fully specified what it meant or how it might be quantified. How did it inter- act with and overlap the material effect of bombing? How, exactly, might it bear on war? These questions never were adequately answered, and the Americans would never come to a consensus on the meaning, significance, and operational definition of the moral effect. In addition, uncertainty and vagueness surrounded the American conceptualization of what constituted enemy morale, and what might be the most effec- tive and efficient means of undermining it. Failure to specify and reach consensus in this regard also complicated American debates over the legal and ethical aspects of long-range bombing. These problems, and the confusion and uncertainty that they engendered, were reflected in inconsistent and even contradictory writing on the subject.  The Americans, however, felt they had a clearer idea of how to achieve “material effect,” even though they never closed with how, ex- actly, this might translate into victory in war. From the moment that Edgar S. Gorrell first borrowed the ideas articulated in Tiverton’s Sep- tember 1917 paper, American airmen embraced the assumptions under-  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 131  lying the selective targeting of key elements in an enemy’s industrial economy. The American critique of British World War I bombing, influ- enced by the London Air Staff, chided Trenchard for not following through on a systematic program based on analysis. The Americans, impressed by the potential frailties and weaknesses in the interlocking structure of a modern industrial economy, postulated that careful anal- ysis could guide planning in crucial ways and produce effective results. They came to believe that their own long-range bombers would be able to undermine efficiently the integrity of an enemy’s war economy by attacki