ired special equipment suited to long-range reconnaissance over land and water. The Air Corps could also agitate for a GHQ Air Force to exist in peacetime and for a GHQ Headquarters to be established in Washington. The General Staff de- murred, anxious that a permanent GHQ Air Force would cause airmen to slight their support duties. Nonetheless, the Air Corps won War De- partment approval to form a GHQ Air Force (Provisional) for maneu- vers in May 1933."  The coastal defense and long-range reconnaissance mission provided the Air Corps with a doctrinal rationale—accepted by the army’s ground combat arms—to develop long-range reconnaissance aircraft. This new responsibility ultimately resulted in the production of larger planes, including bomber prototypes. The Air Corps’s preoccupation with long-range aircraft had more to do with strategic bombing than reconnaissance, but that sentiment could not be fully articulated as long as USS. military policy remained defensive in nature. Coastal defense operations were integrated into Air Corps training. Australian navigator Harold Gatty, who had flown the world in Wiley Post’s airplane Winnie Mae, was hired to instruct. In October 1933 the Air Corps formed units at Langley Field, Virginia, and Rockwell, California, for navigation and instrument flying. In addition, Chief of the Air Corps Gen. Benjamin Foulois set up a school at Bolling Field to develop coast defense naviga- tion and plotting equipment. But the Depression years put a strain on Air Corps resources for coastal defense missions.“ National belt- tightening meant fewer flying hours as well as frequent furloughs, pay cuts for both officers and enlisted men (in 1933 a $21-a-month private saw his salary cut to $17.85), and limits and delays for new aircraft. Even the Air Corps Newsletter suspended publication from October 1933 to January 1935.  Over the summer of 1933, General Foulois was asked to recommend the employment of GHQ air power in the national war plans (“