the problems raised for them by these exercises. When assessing results, bomber advocates ap- plied both formal rules and cognitive filters that insured they would see what they expected to see: the primacy of the aerial offensive waged by determined bombers. The rules under which the exercises were run gave advantages to bombers, and umpire rulings explained away unexpected results.  As there was no means of determining how many bombers inter- cepted in a given exercise would likely have been shot down under combat conditions, the Air Staff determined its own rule of thumb. De- fensive fighters were accorded only half the “killing power” of twin- engined bombers. The Air Staff argued that “the fighting value of a good formation of bombers is higher than that of the same number of single-seat fighters; as an arbitary figure, the fighting value of the bombers is assessed as 2 and that of the fighters as 1.” This guidance, unfortunately, was not based on a careful assessment of historical expe- rience; had it been, fighters would have garnered more respect. Other assumptions were curious at best. For instance, exercise umpires seemed to have had as much professed faith in the relentless offensive and the “moral effect” of bombing as Trenchard himself. A 1930 exercise, for instance, applied the “Blueland” tactic of direct attack against enemy “Redland” resources, while Redland put up an air defensive battle and also attacked Blue aerodromes. While the Red Force was given credit for destroying large numbers of Blue aircraft, this did not determine the outcome: Blueland was instead adjudged the victor by dint of its initial offensive. Writing up the exercise for publication, Flight Lt. M. W. Yool observed, “Blue’s policy of commencing the operations by practically ignoring the existence of the enemy air force, and of concentrating on the attack of those objectives, the destruction of which would best achieve his aim, was fully justified by the results.””’ In his analysis