h and American air forces maintained a gritty optimism. Largely undaunted by the gap between prewar promises and wartime results to date, the leaders of both forces figured that success would be a matter of time and resources. If Churchill had had deep concerns about Bomber Command—and even deeper concerns about the USAAF—he nonetheless continued to feel that they had to carry a significant part of the war effort. American military and political leaders felt, too, that bombers had an important role to play in the prosecution of the war. Their determination that bombers would be able to carry out the tasks envisioned in prewar theory caused them to downplay or discount the indications that it might not be possible, at least in the way they had thought. Neither the British nor the Americans realized the extent of the struggle that lay ahead, still, for the Allied air forces, Though they would continue to gain in size, strength, and operational efficiency, they would continue to face vast problems. Indeed, by the end of 1943 the entire Allied strategic bombing effort was in danger of collapse. The next chapter will examine how that crisis in Allied strategy was met and overcome. It will examine, as well, the many problems and dilemmas faced by the Combined Bomber Offensive in the later years of the war, and the many ethical questions posed by those problems.  CHAPTER FIVE  The Combined Bomber Offensive: 1943-1945  By the end of 1942 no theory of strategic bombing had been proven or disproven. The Americans were just out of the starting blocks with their nascent air campaign. Sir Arthur Harris had helped bring Bomber Com- mand through the many crises it faced in 1942, and he was gearing up for the vast campaign he planned to implement. But losses in Bomber Command remained high enough for Chief of Air Staff Sir Charles Por- tal to insist that the statistics be confined to “the smallest number of people.” In the early months of 1943, only 17 percent of Bomber Com- mand c