al by Royal license of Letters of Mark granting the right to privateers of the air to carry havoc and destruction as reprisals into Germany.”'* Popu- lar anger again found an outlet in daily newspapers. Letters to editors called for defense restructuring, including the creation of a separate air force. And again citizens vented their anger by attacking the shopfronts of Germans (or those thought to be Germans) in neighborhoods like Lambeth, Clerkenwell, Hackney, Holloway, and Bethnal Green."  The Gotha raids provoked several important official responses. After  32 CHAPTER1  the attacks on London of 13 June and 7 July, the government requested that Haig send fighter squadrons from the front line back home to help defend Britain. He complied, but warned Chief of the Imperial General Staff Sir William Robertson that losing two squadrons would compli- cate his job in France.' In addition, the War Cabinet mandated that aircraft production—plagued with widespread problems of manage- ment and organization—was to be given priority over all other forms of weapon production. Further, the number of RFC and RNAS squadrons would be roughly doubled, and engine production would be trebled. Forty of the new squadrons would be devoted to reprisals against Ger- many."  Following the raid of 7 July in particular, the government’s reluctance to organize air raid warnings was sharply challenged by a number of public figures. In rebuttal, some officials argued that air raid alarms would cause production losses due to work stoppage. They argued fur- ther that diverting fighters to home defense would increase the German advantage on the western front. Since casualties from air raids had been relatively modest (as compared to the battlefront), they urged the public to remain steadfast.” The editors of the conservative journal The Spec- tator supported this rationale, chiding other publishers for exaggerating the German menace and encouraging public outcries of vengeance." But there is no qu