mile ra- dius, the average circular error was 2.48 miles. Gross errors (bombs falling more than 3,000 feet from the aim point) and mission failures  244 CHAPTER S  (when less than 5 percent of total bombs dispatched fall within the 1,000 feet around the target) became common. Gross errors ran at 66 percent for the Eighth Air Force in poor weather, and 29 percent in good weather.”  A special study of American H2X attacks on Ludwigshafen and Mannheim, flown in September 1944, had indicated that “a disturb- ingly high proportion of our attacks failed to reach the general area of the target, . . . of 186 formations dispatched . . . the bombfalls of only 80 have been identified within the area of photographic coverage. Pre- sumably the balance, somewhat over 50 percent, either represent errors of very large magnitude or mistaken attacks on other targets.”'" Var- ious analyses of American H2X bombing explained that inaccuracy was due to a range of factors, including the unfamiliarity of H2X Pathfinder techniques and “the lack of understanding by the combat wing com- mander of the requirements for good radar bombing”; insufficient train- ing of radar navigator-bombardiers; overworked crews; inadequate maintenance; equipment failures; combat fatigue and enemy opposition (especially flak); navigational errors; unfamiliarity with the target; lack of maneuverability with a large formation; interference from other for- mations in the target area; inability to observe results and profit from them; and (to a lesser degree) the inherent inaccuracy of the bombsight.’*  Because they were so often blocked by weather from attacks on oil facilities, U.S. strategic bombers dedicated ever-increasing tonnages to marshaling yards in German cities. And escort fighters accompanying bombers increasingly undertook low-level attacks and strafing raids against enemy matériel. This had an important consequence: attacks on marshaling yards (large, identifiable targets in urban areas) had the ef- f