is instance was wholly consistent with his use of the phrase in summaries and press releases sent out during the course of the fighting: he argued that his long-range raids (no matter how dis- persed or inconsistent), at least had caused lost hours to German manu- facturing, forcing enemy defensive preparations that otherwise would have been unnecessary.  Trenchard singled out only a few raids for detailed analysis. Much of the dispatch simply offered lists of locations bombed and tons dropped. He outlined the unfulfilled plans for the use of super Handley Page V/ 1500s and described the work of his force in cooperation with the American First Army. Significantly, Trenchard argued that before he could attack Germany successfully, “it was necessary to attack the en- emy’s aerodromes heavily in order to prevent his [the enemy’s] attacking our aerodromes by night, and by destroying his machines to render his attacks by day less efficacious.” He also pointed out that in September and October 1918 in particular, day bombers often had to fight their way into Germany and back out again, a hardship that necessitated formation flying. Overall, the dispatch echoed themes that Trenchard had highlighted in his press releases, in particular the moral effect, which combined vaguely articulated notions of psychological impact with broad categories of “indirect effects.” These statements might not have been quite so important had events followed a different course, and had Trenchard not become the head of the interwar RAF.  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 49  AMERICAN AERIAL PARTICIPATION IN WORLD WAR I  While the United States eventually would become a world leader in air- craft design and manufacture, and come to possess the most powerful air force in the world, this would not happen until well after the First ‘World War. Entering that war late in the day, the Americans never had an opportunity to gain first-hand experience of long-range bombing. Like other belligerents, the Americans u