s than one- tenth of 1 percent of German war expenditure.'” More recently, a scholar of German aviation concluded, “The expense of the RAF’s de- stroyed aircraft exceeded the cost of the damage it inflicted on Ger- many.”"” Allied bombing did cause the Germans to divert resources to defense, including, by 1918, 896 heavy Flak guns, 454 searchlights, 204 Flak machine guns, and 9 fighter squadrons.” The ever-increasing effec tiveness of air defenses—German Flak guns shot down 129 Allied air- craft in October 1918—prompted the British to believe that the Ger- mans had invested very heavily in this realm. While this investment was  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 45  by no means insubstantial, it was consistently overestimated by RAF officers after the war.”  At one point Trenchard wondered, privately, if the effort repaid the cost. In August 1918 he admitted in his diary that the material damage done by bombing was likely very small. And, though he believed that the moral effect was very great, he added that its greatest impact was perhaps “to give the newspapers copy to say how wonderful we are, though it really does not affect the enemy so much as it affects our own people.”**! Yet any misgivings he had at the time had not prompted him to reevaluate his own approach, to rely more substantially on Air Staff analyses, or to tone down his public pronouncements. Indeed, he used the latter to cover up his doubts in a rhetorical offensive that may have helped him cope with the ambivalence he felt about his job. By focusing attention on the vague and amorphous moral effect of bombing, he could argue that he had met his obligations and justified his losses. And he could do so without much fear of contradiction.  In highlighting the moral effect, Trenchard was amplifying a claim first made by his predecessors in the RNAS and RFC." Over time the RNAS had relied increasingly on the moral effect as a way of justifying the existence of No. 3 (Luxeuil) Wing, and this tendency reached its