ndful of aircraft were sent against a variety of targets, with mixed results. Doo- little, who was in charge of the tests, was critical of the project, dubbing it a failure as a strategic weapon.’” Later in the year the project was examined for tactical purposes, with aircraft to be launched from for- ward bases. This, too, generated little enthusiasm from field com- manders. In the meantime the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington, no    COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 241  doubt urged on by Arnold, began to shape their own ideas for the project—specifically, a plan to launch over 500 war-weary bombers against industrial targets in Germany, with the aim of producing dis- location and disruption. Arnold felt that the raids might be “a means of breaking down the morale of the people of interior Germany.”"*  In November the Americans requested authority from the British to proceed with the development and implementation of the plan.’” British representatives in Washington pointed out that the Americans “feel that anything that can be done to increase the enemy’s difficulties and lower their general morale is worthwhile.” Nonetheless, some Air Ministry personnel balked at the plan on grounds of operational effectiveness and political factors: “This proposal has on the face of it little to recom- mend it.... The idea appears to be a rather labourious copy of the flying bomb.” Portal’s reaction was more sympathetic, although he argued that the feasibility of the project would have to be proven to justify the expenditure of resources. Presuming that Churchill would agree, the British Chiefs authorized the continuation of the project. But Churchill, concerned about possible German retaliation in kind against London, would not give his assent and the Chiefs had to rescind their original answer in January 1945.”  The negotiations continued, and Arnold’s commitment to the project insured that the negotiations took place at high levels. Roosevelt, who generally did not interject hims