in or near their sheds, it was not enough to prevent airship raids against England, which commenced January 1915." The raids put the British in an unac- customed situation: suddenly, the nation was uncomfortably exposed. Some officials reacted quickly and with alarm, proffering dramatic schemes to redress the situation. First Sea Lord Baron Fisher of Kilver- stone, for instance, proposed killing a captured German civilian for every British citizen killed by the German raids.”  While Churchill and the RNAS pondered the zeppelin campaign, the kaiser and his advisors debated how to use the weapon to best advan- tage. Though zeppelins were powerful symbols of national prestige, not all German leaders were comfortable employing them as long-range bombing platforms against Britain. Adm. Alfred von Tirpitz had doubts about their utility, and Chancellor Theobald von Bettmann-Hollweg fretted over possible international reaction to German bombing of civil- ians. But the temptation to use an available weapon—one that had cap- tured the popular imagination and was backed strongly by advocates like Admiral Behncke—eventually eroded the hesitation of German de- cision makers. Additional impetus was provided by German frustration with the naval blockade against them, and by a French air attack on Freiburg in December 1914. In January 1915 the kaiser authorized at- tacks on docks and military targets along the English coast and on the lower Thames.* In trying to confine attacks to military targets, he sought not only to protect the Royal family (to whom he was directly related), but also to keep Germany within the parameters of interna- tional law on bombardment, such as it was. The belligerents in the Great War, however, had no means by which to strike targets from the air with precision. Indeed, witnesses on the ground rarely could deter- mine the intended targets of invading air attackers.*  Over time, the kaiser loosened the constraints on air attacks, and  22 CHAPTER1  zeppeli