air: “[I]t is not decisive but better that doing nothing, and indeed is a formidable method of injuring the enemy.”" The con- flicted phrasing betrayed much. Churchill had been, at various points in his extensive political life, one of the most potent supporters of bomb- ing as a means of war. During World War I he had encouraged the Royal Naval Air Service to wage preemptive strategic air attacks against  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 203  German zeppelin sheds. In the 1930s he had actively warned of the Luftwaffe threat, and had encouraged a build-up of the RAF. And his World War II strategic plans all relied heavily on air power. But at the same time he had doubts—first expressed in 1917 while he served as Minister of Munitions—about the ability of bombers to break civil will. He reiterated these in a January 1939 article he wrote for the American magazine, Colliers." If he had embraced the Cherwell report (thereby ignoring arguments he himself had made in September 1941), he had almost certainly done so because other options were lacking at a crucial moment in the course of the war." And, if he relied on Bomber Com- mand, he nonetheless was deeply concerned not only about its many weaknesses, but also about possible criticism of its operations on moral grounds. Thus, when the Americans began planning and preparing their own strategic bombing offensive, the prime minister took careful notice. He was acutely desirous of guiding American policy. Churchill’s faith in Britain’s ability to hold Germany off had depended to an important extent on his expectation that the United States would enter the war in a timely fashion. This hope had proven too optimistic early on, but the consequences of Pearl Harbor filled him with a sense of renewed energy: now that the Americans were in, he believed, the fate of the Axis was sealed."’ All the details of cooperation remained to be worked out, however.  THE UNITED STATES AND THE PREPARATION FOR WAR  In late January 1938, Presid