defended target in the middle of wide-open terrain.” Committed to an idea, the airmen chose not to countenance completely those things that undermined it. Even as war loomed on the horizon, bomber crews rarely dropped bombs from heights above 12,000 feet." But this was not the only potential problem facing American bomber advocates. Being able to attack selected targets and bomb them pre- cisely rested on the assumption that one would be able to reach them without sustaining prohibitive losses in the process.  THE BOMBER WILL ALWAYS GET THROUGH  Through the 1930s, ACTS emphasized bombers at the expense of obser- vation, attack, and pursuit.” So obvious was this favoritism that the Air Corps sometimes referred to its observation units as “orphans.” The ground army, though it tried continually to rein in the Air Corps, was preoccupied with its own affairs and did little to force a change. Addi- tionally, army and Air Corps units were scattered among isolated loca- tions, and funding for joint training exercises was limited. Indeed, not until 1941 were there maneuvers with two army-sized teams.’ Favori- tism toward bombers was especially reflected in aircraft procurement. As Lee Kennett has pointed out, the U.S. Army Air Forces deployed two generations of strategic bombers in World War II (and would have fielded a third if the war had continued), but neither developed a satis- factory plane for light observation and liaison, nor identified the proper aircraft for ground attack.’ Pursuit (or fighter) aviation’s demotion to a  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 165  distinct second on the American priority list occurred gradually but in- exorably as the bomber ascended.  ‘As the bomber advocates envisioned longer-range missions, they had to come to terms with the problems of bomber penetration and surviv- ability. They pinned their hopes on the self-defending bomber flying to distant targets unescorted: their vision required that sleek, fast, high- altitude bombers would us