ng and small bomb groups as often as possible. Even with such precautions, however, about one hundred French civilians died in each of the American attacks waged on rail yards in the prein- vasion campaign.”  Harris, too, put up some verbal resistance and continued to agitate for greater freedom. Indeed, he never truly accepted an Allied grand strategy oriented ultimately to a ground battle in northwest Europe. He complained that day bombing as practiced by the Americans was not, except under clear weather conditions, a very serious menace to Ger- many, and argued (tellingly) that its effect on morale, as compared to that of “night bombing on a large scale” was slight. He argued, “In any case the Germans know that any factory can be replaced relatively eas- ily in the post-war period provided that the city on which it depends is not too badly damaged to be repairable in a reasonable time. But facto- ries without cities are valueless.”**  In an April letter to U.S. Assistant Secretary of War Robert Lovett, Harris lambasted Zuckerman: “Our worst headache has been a panacea plan devised by a civilian professor whose peacetime forté is the study of the sexual aberrations of the higher apes.” The relationship between Portal and Harris, never an easy one, was growing increasingly testy. A debate over night fighter equipment dissolved into an acrimonious struggle over loyalty and the lines of authority between Bomber Com- mand and the Air Ministry. Much of Harris’s venom on this point was directed at several members of the Air Ministry Staff who were critical of his commitment to city bombing, in particular Air Commodore S. O. Bufton, the Air Ministry’s Director of Bomber Operations.  To Harris’s surprise, Eisenhower’s first bombing directive, dated 17 April, gave him more leeway to bomb cities than he had expected. In a second surprise, Bomber Command proved perfectly capable of hitting  236 CHAPTER S$  the tactical targets Eisenhower and Tedder had prioritized. After try