the best it could within the narrow bounds set by the prime minister, ultimately turning to SHAEF where Professor Zuckerman had been attempting to make investigations with the few people available to him. With Tedder’s endorsement as a boost, Zuckerman became scientific advisor to the BBSU. Nine panels were constituted, and they relied heavily on the statistical data provided by the U.S. Survey teams. The study of area bombing was based on statisti- cal inquiry and was not checked by direct observation. Once the report was completed it might have been possible to submit it to an impartial body for review, but this was not done as the Air Ministry by then showed little interest in such a course, and other departments had lost interest—and much of their wartime personnel as well.’ Bomber Com- mand’s Operational Research Section (ORS) also undertook some lim- ited investigations; these were independent of the BBSU effort.  In the meantime, the USSBS studies came together, and results of the European assessments were ready to be made public in the autumn of 1945. The USSBS Over-all and Summary reports on the European war gave a positive endorsement to the role of aviation. The vice-chairman, Henry Alexander, read sections of these to the press on 24 October  274 CHAPTER S$  1945. In particular he emphasized that “Allied air power was decisive in the war in Western Europe.” He went on, “Hindsight inevitably sug- gests that it might have been employed differently or better in some respects. Nevertheless it was decisive.” The phrasing had been carefully selected by the editors working for the chairman’s office. Newspaper writers generally took their cue from these statements when they de- vised headlines for the next day’s copy. In fact, the argument was more qualified than it seemed: “air power” was used instead of “strategic bombing,” and “Western Europe” instead of “Europe.” The term “de- cisive,” in the context of the overlapping influences affecting the war’s endgame,