y we can de- ploy . . . and the the strongest navy we can dispose . . . will provide no effective defense against determined efforts . . . to bomb our cities.”** But Douhet’s perspective was narrow, and he saw only the evidence that supported his view. His idea of the future rested on crude extrapolation, and like many other interwar “prophets” of air power, he failed to see how, in the words of historian Michael Sherry, it “might evolve un- predictably, strengthening the defense as well as the offense, creating its own futile charges and bloody stalemates.”"”  In 1932 the Air Staff decided to move the annual ADGB exercises away from London. This was in part because the Geneva negotiations were ongoing, and in part because bombers over London seemed to have the effect of underscoring the concerns given voice in the popular fiction of the day. Maj. F. A. de V. Robertson, who wrote on the 1932 exercises for the Journal of the Royal United Services Institution, took the press to task for sensationalized coverage of previous RAF exercises, which had as its consequence “a considerable scare and a general belief that any enemy could bomb London at will.”' But journalists were not the only ones helping to promulgate such views. The RAF’s own official statements and predictions had fostered an environment for sensa- tionalized stories. And members of the government, too, speculated about air war and the potency of the bomber. In November 1932, once and future Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin (then serving as Lord Presi- dent of the Council) offered up one of the most repeated and remem- bered statements of the era when he declared in the House of Commons  108 CHAPTER 2  that “the bomber will always get through.”' As time went on, his grim convictions remained unshaken. In 1936 he stated that the next war would be the end of civilization in Europe: “[T]he raging peoples of every country, torn with passion, suffering and horror, would wipe out every government in Europe” and wo