ice, he found Sykes’s plans for the postwar RAF too grandiose and expensive; instead, he prevailed upon Trenchard to oversee a smaller force. It was indeed ironic, in view of Trenchard’s earlier antipathy to- ward RAF independence, that he came to play the central role in de- fending the postwar RAF. After some deliberation, the former GOC, IF chose to accept the position; on 15 February 1919, he became the Chief of Air Staff (CAS) once again. This time, however, he would stay, hold- ing the post for nearly a decade, during which he would have a domi- nating voice in the public articulation of RAF thought.” Once estab- lished in his new job, he fiercely defended his organizational turf, coping as the older services jealously eyed the RAF and jockeyed to regain control over their air components. He proved himself shrewd when the situation called for it, and he found ways to fend off chal- lenges, often by arguing that the RAF could accomplish tasks that the other services could not—and could accomplish them efficiently and inexpensively. Indeed, Trenchard’s bureaucratic talents, intransigence, and force of will were to make him a crucial asset to the survival of the still-fragile RAE”  Trenchard initially resisted Churchill’s fiscal constraints, but com- promised—insisting that, in return, the RAF be treated as an indepen- dent service. He realized he would have to move carefully and, initially at least, avoid a fight to the death with the older services. He soon realized, too, that he could use fiscal issues to his advantage. He played his hand skillfully—at one point even implying that he might be willing to release air cooperation units to the army and the navy.” While he probably never intended to allow this, it bought him some time and temporarily kept his rivals from combining forces against him. He was quite prepared to make promises that served his short-term interests.  82 CHAPTER 2  And he felt he had time: the armistice had removed any serious threat to Br