ial dis- connect in the logic of emerging RAF declaratory policy. The stridency and consistency of Trenchard’s position in this debate implied that it was undergirded by more than a cynical view of institutional interests or an attempt to maximize deterrence through assertive rhetoric and posturing. He argued that “it is easy to lose sight of the effect one is making on the enemy if one is too anxious to safeguard oneself from attack... . Our people would undoubtedly squeal if they were bombed, but we should find, if we bombed the enemy enough, that he would collapse before we did.” Full and unhesitating commitment to the of- fensive would be paramount. But the air defense advocates were not prepared to accept all the ramifications of Trenchard’s orthodoxy on offensive planning, and their arguments provided for the continued and crucial evolution of a system of air defense for Britain. Pushing in this same direction was the fact that the army not only insisted that the RAF maintain effective air defense, but threatened to seize the role for itself.“ Though its public rhetoric and declaratory policy would remain fixed on the “relentless offensive,” the RAF would not ignore the air defense mission.  In an address given to the War Office Exercise at Buxton (April 1923), Trenchard had claimed that a battle for air superiority would form an initial and separate phase of a continental air war; he also argued that winning air superiority would depend in large part on such factors as a “combined organisation composed of night fighting squad- rons, searchlight companies, anti-aircraft guns and other devices to fight the enemy’s bombing aircraft by night.” In the same talk, the CAS de- veloped familiar themes, warning that a future war in Europe would resolve itself “into a contest of morale between respective civilian popu- lations.” He asserted that the population which suffered most from air attacks, or which lacked “moral tenacity” would likely “bring such pressure to bea