ir Staff (May 1933—August 1937), Sir Edward Ellington oversaw the drawing up of specifications that led to the Hawker Hurricane and the Supermarine Spitfire. When experiments in methods of aircraft detection began to reveal the first glimpses of what would later become radar, these could be readily and successfully posi- tioned into a preexisting framework.*”  If the Germans can lay claim to key innovations (in terms of technical change) regarding radar, the British employed their systems more effec- tively and efficiently.*” In Britain, concern about the improving capa- bilities of bombers, especially following the 1934 exercises, prompted investigations into improved aircraft detection techniques.*' H. E. Wimperis, Director of Scientific Research in the Air Ministry, proposed that a scientific committee to survey air defense be formed under Henry Tizard, Chairman of the Aeronautical Research Committee; it met for the first time in January 1935.** Tizard consulted with R. A. Watson- ‘Watt, Superintendent of the Radio Department of the National Physics Laboratory, who, in February, wrote a paper proving the feasibility of radar; in March members of the committee saw a demonstration of the principle.’ Between 1936 and 1940 the existing defensive net was en- hanced by the Chain Home and Chain Home Low (for low-flying air- craft) radar systems. The centralization of the Command enabled infor- mation to be disseminated quickly.  In March 1938 the Deputy Director of Plans (Slessor) requested from the Air Staff an overview of the effectiveness of fighter defenses; he needed the information for meetings of the Joint Planning Committee. He sought answers to questions about such things as the likelihood of bomber interception, the value of defensive armament for bombers, and the margin of speed between fighters and bombers. In his covering note to the Assistant Chief of the Air Staff, he admitted that, on many issues involving the tactical performance of new fighters and bom