rdromes, depots, and aircraft construction facilities would result in “losses of aircraft on the ground greatly in excess of those suffered during the World War.”"  Exercises held in 1931 seemed to reinforce the idea that fast bombers could fare well on their own. Lt. Col. Henry (“Hap”) Arnold reached this conclusion, as did the umpires, one of whom proclaimed: “[I]t is impossible for fighters to intercept bombers and therefore it is inconsist- ent with the employment of air force to develop fighters.”*’ Comment- ing on 1933 exercises designed to test the GHQ Air Force (Provisional), Asst. Chief of the Air Corps Brig. Gen. Oscar Westover observed what he termed the “woefully obsolete” speed characteristics of pursuit avia- tion. From this he was moved to postulate that “no known agency can frustrate the accomplishment of a bombardment mission.” Specifically, he argued, “Bombardment aviation has defensive fire power of such quantity and effectiveness as to warrant the belief that with its modern speeds it may be capable of effectively accomplishing its assigned mis- sion without support.”"*  Of the 1934 exercises in California pitting B-12 bombers (a modified version of the B-10) against the less capable P-26 fighter, Arnold wrote, “Pursuit or fighter airplanes operating from frontline airdromes will rarely intercept modern bombers except accidentally.”"® In a speech to the Army War College in the same year, Major General Foulois argued, “Observation, bombardment and attack have advanced in speed devel- opment much faster than has pursuit.”’” The progress of American pur- suit aircraft in the latter half of the decade was not promising. The awkward two-seater P-30 served mainly, as one historian observed, “to demonstrate the superiority of the single-seat pursuit.” While they rep- resented improvements over the P-26, neither the Seversky P-35 nor the Curtiss P-36 was a match for the B-17.17"  Not everyone, however, accepted the intellectual orthodoxy of bomber invinc