. He told Peirse to prepare a letter to Zamoyski explaining the difficulties. Peirse thus regretfully informed Zamoyski that limitations on accuracy  192 CHAPTER 4  and the weight of bombs that could be carried to such a distance would inhibit chances for a successful mission. And, significantly, he added that it was important for him to concentrate every one of his bombers against industrial targets in Germany since “we are likely to precipitate a crisis in Germany’s war economy this year.” Peirse’s optimism, re- markable in retrospect, nonetheless reflected a truly held belief about the likelihood of causing hardship in Germany in the near term. And it held up despite the fact that he was able to complete only three opera- tions against oil targets in January and February 1941." In general it was not uncommon for intelligence assessments undertaken in late 1940 and early 1941 to be wildly optimistic—and Air Staff assessments often were not far behind. One of these claimed that industrial output in the Ruhr-Rhine and Frankfurt-Main districts had fallen by more than 30 percent (due to the lack of sleep among workers), and that bombing had affected 25 percent of the total productive capacity of Germany.“  In February, Portal informed Peirse that the mood in London was swinging from oil and toward the “general dislocation of industry by mass attacks on industrial centres.” He also told him that the RAF was “on the defensive with a vengeance owing to the situation in the Atlan- tic” and added that “a very high proportion of bomber effort will inev- itably be required to pull the Admiralty out of the mess they have got into.”” Portal at this point forcefully argued that in the poor weather prevailing over northern Europe much of the time, it was “virtually impossible for a pilot to select and bomb a particular object”; but it was at least possible to attack areas successfully. He noticed, as well, that secret reports were indicating no German anxiety about oil productio