to seek terms with Hitler. The new prime minister felt that, before any negotiations with the enemy, the British had to prove they would not be beaten. Proving this would depend on maintaining effective defenses and carrying out offensive operations designed to erode German industry and the German homefront. The latter would rely on methods Britain had traditionally used in continental warfare: economic pressure rather than a direct clash of ground forces. In this, Bomber Command would have a key role, especially since the effective- ness of naval blockade had been undermined by Hitler’s conquests. Bombers would “pulverise the entire industry and scientific structure on which the war effort and economic life of the enemy depend.” Bomber Command, Churchill insisted, must be rapidly expanded “since no other way of winning the war has yet been proposed.””  Churchill’s views came to dominate debates on grand strategy: in late July the Chiefs of Staff relegated the army’s role largely to an occupa- tion force in the final stages of Germany’s defeat. “Massive bombing” would be relied upon to destroy the Germany economy and morale."’ Churchill’s faith in this view rested not only on implicit assumptions about the effect of bombing, but also on assumptions about weaknesses in the German economy. Several of these proved to be misguided, ill- founded, or simply overly optimistic, including the assumption that the German economy was already nearing capacity; that it had readily ex-  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 187  ploitable Achilles’ heels, like oil; and that the German people already were greatly worn down by privation and the effort involved in war preparation. The British assumed that Hitler fully intended war in 1939, and that he would have undertaken it only if his economy were in full gear. The fiihrer, they presumed, had organized his industrial war machine in an efficient, regimented way. But they presumed, too, that it was not up to the demands of a long war—it w