ds that were, in both con- ception and in operational technique, urban-incendiary attacks. This would mean, inevitably, that the “indirect effects” of bombing would be elevated to a position of increased prominence, thereby upending the theory revered at ACTS. But planners worked around this problem by looking for the advantages of indirect effects. Applying logic similar to that used by the British when they switched to area bombing, they spe- cified the disruption and dislocation of the work force as an explicit motive for their targeting decisions. At the Quebec Conference of Sep- tember 1943 General Arnold presented “An Air Plan for the Defeat of Japan” in carefully chosen but rather tortured language, including “the dislocation of labor by casualty.”??  Inherent in any plan for incendiary attacks on cities is the acceptance of large numbers of casualties among those not in military uniform. Some of those, surely, would be engaged in war work—but many more would not be. This was well understood by planners, although it was eased in many instances by self-justifying rhetoric. And, while it raised the concerns of some of them, it did not prevent them from going ahead with both the conceptualization and prosecution of urban incendiary raids. Another targeting report, released in October, highlighted the congested, flammable nature of Japanese cities. Twenty cities, noted the authors, contained 22 percent of the Japanese population, 53 percent of all the targets, and 74 percent of all the targets listed on the March 1943 target priority list. Some 1,600 tons of M-69 incendiary bombs might destroy all twenty cities. A COA report released two weeks later came to similar conclusions.** This line of thinking was similar to that elaborated in the detailed and careful graphics contained in Harris’s “Blue Books.”  While two different approaches to targeting were now clearly on the  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 265  table, nothing had as yet been settled. The groundwork for ur