pilot to select and bomb a particular object”; but it was at least possible to attack areas successfully. He noticed, as well, that secret reports were indicating no German anxiety about oil production due to the availability of Rumanian oil fields.* Peirse resisted Portal’s drift, pointing out that there was no reason voluntarily to abandon the oil directive “unless we are convinced . . . that whatever we might do to oil within the next two moon phases will not be worthwhile; and can offer some very attractive alternative which, at the same time, is likely to have more effect.”*  The debate became less urgent in early March, when, at the behest of the Prime Minister, Bomber Command received a directive stating that in the near term, attention would be devoted to “defeating the attempt of the enemy to strangle our food supplies and our connection with the United States” by attacking U-boats at sea, in docks, and in building yards, and by attacking the Focke-Wulf and other bombers used against shipping. In the event, some room narrowly remained for continued attacks on oil. The British official historians have argued, though, that the rather dramatic refocusing compelled by the battle of the Atlantic was actually a saving grace for Bomber Command since any attempt to drive home an all-out offensive at that point would have been doomed  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 193  to failure.” In the meantime, a Trenchardian trend continued to emerge. Deputy Chief of the Air Staff (DCAS) Air Vice-Marshal Arthur Harris argued that—even within the bounds of the existing directive—some targets ought to be selected to impose ARP (Air Raid Precautions) mea- sures over wide areas in Germany. Thus, as the official historians pointed out laconically, in this period “some ostensibly naval targets were whole German towns.””!  Later in the year Portal held out against resurrecting the oil plan. In May, DCAS Air Vice-Marshal Sir Norman Bottomley argued that in the five months since the o