g that same month, Caproni gave Gorrell a book on aerial bombing—essentially a compilation of Caproni’s views—by Italian journalist Nino Salvaneschi. Written in English, the slim volume was clearly intended to enhance American enthusiasm for long-range bombardment, and to instill a sense of urgency about it. After receiving the book, Gorrell wrote back to Caproni asking for additional copies, stating that he would “spread the gospel in all directions.”*' The British, however, would most influ- ence Gorrell’s views on strategic bombing. Indeed, during his service in Europe, Gorrell would turn repeatedly to his British colleagues for ideas and guidance.  Soon after General Foulois arrived in the autumn of 1917 to take up his new post as head of Air Service, AEF, Gorrell submitted to him (28 November 1917) a scheme for bombing Germany. The document was drawn up as part of a program to provide General Pershing with plans for the utilization of American air power. Shortly after submitting his plan, Gorrell was promoted to lieutenant colonel, and detailed to head the Strategical Section, Zone of Advance, American Expeditionary Forces.** What came to be known as the “Gorrell Plan” was later con- sidered paradigmatically American: the “earliest” and “clearest” state- ment of “the American conception of the employment of air power.”?? This was ironic because the plan was based heavily on Tiverton’s 3 September 1917 plan for long-range bombing. Tiverton and Gorrell were then in Paris; it is clear that the two men consulted and that Tiver- ton provided ideas to his American colleague. Gorrell added opening and concluding sections of his own, but adopted the Tiverton paper, virtually verbatim, for the body of his own paper.  Gorrell began by pointing out that trench stalemate had called for a new policy, and he argued that the Germans and the Allies had both come to understand the promise held out by aerial bombing. He felt though that the Germans were gaining the upper hand, a