this point sought to distance themselves from the inconvenient fact that bombers had often been vulnerable to the enemy. They implied that better tactics and increased speeds would solve the problem, arguing (tautologically) in the 1930 “Air Force” text that lessons derived from the World War experience of bombers versus pursuit could not be conclusive because the war had offered few exam- ples of “well flown [emphasis added] bombardment formations”. They pointed out that both “bombardment and attack have very great powers of self-defense against pursuit”: high altitudes and speeds would allow bombers to reach their targets before defensive pursuit could reach them. If attacked, a bomber could “defend itself with its flexible machine guns . . . while flying directly home.”!° Bombers could defend one another through interlocking fields of fire from their own rapid fire weapons. Again stressing tactics, they wrote, “Formations of attack, bombardment and observation airplanes, properly flown and tightly maintained [emphasis added], provide adequate protection except against an attack by hostile pursuit overwhelmingly superior in num- bers and firepower.”"*  In Trenchardian-sounding tones, they claimed, “Victory will accrue to him who is best able to withstand the blows of the enemy and at the  168 CHAPTER 3  same time strike first, hardest, and strike most often.”'’* But while Tren- chard had failed to emphasize counterforce operations, the Americans maintained that they were important, and very likely essential. The 1930 Air Force text argued, “The contest for air superiority will start immediately upon the declaration of war, and will result in every means being employed to destroy hostile aircraft.” The use of modern bom- bardment and attack aviation directed against airdromes, depots, and aircraft construction facilities would result in “losses of aircraft on the ground greatly in excess of those suffered during the World War.”"  Exercises held in 1931 seemed to re