D BOMBER OFFENSIVE 223  ish had failed.’ As we have seen, initial USAAF raids were limited in both range and scope, and they rarely challenged targets the Germans felt compelled to defend. The concentration of German fighters on the eastern and Mediterranean fronts also helped insure that the early American efforts would be relatively unmolested. Indeed, nothing in the American’s experience of bombing had yet forced a reexamination of their faith.  During the spring of 1943 the USAAF turned its primary attention from U-boat pens and construction sites to the German air force. But the campaign against the Luftwaffe, prioritized by Pointblank, proved harder than anticipated: American sorties against German airframe, en- gine, and component factories—limited in number at first because of ongoing production holdups back home—fell victim to the German fighters and anti-aircraft artillery increasingly assigned to the Western Front. In mid-April, 16 of the 115 U.S. bombers dispatched were de- stroyed in a raid on the Focke-Wulf plant at Bremen; a further 44 were damaged. Realizing that the Americans were looking to wrest air su- premacy from them, the Germans set up a defense that, by the summer of 1943, contained a fighter command system covering a geographical zone up to 480 miles deep.  General Eaker retained his faith, however, that daylight bombers op- erating in “well-flown formations” could penetrate enemy air space successfully—with a loss rate of 5 percent or less—in their pursuit of the German aircraft industry.*’ A September 1943 essay for the Royal Air Force Quarterly, written to defend and promote the American bombing effort, argued triumphantly that the Americans had “given the proof” that they could “hit the target from the sub-stratopshere” and “defend themselves against enemy fighters well enough to keep losses within reasonable bounds.” It credited success to the .50 caliber ma- chine gun arming U.S. bombers and to the tight formations used by bomber grou