d to rise. Some 9,000 sorties were flown, but they brought Britain no closer to victory. There was no obvious decline in the war economy, and no crack in morale. In the meantime, German night fighters took an ever-increasing toll, and Bomber Com- mand had no answer to them. Portal and his staff, like the Americans, were disheartened by intelligence reports indicating that total Luftwaffe fighter strength on the western front had continued to swell; indeed, one report estimated that at the planned date for Operation Overlord, the total front line strength of the Luftwaffe fighter force would be 2,865.”  Evidence about the state of affairs inside Germany continued to vary from source to source and from week to week. Harris, heavily invested in his own statements and predictions, held firm in his convictions; in- deed, he dug in his heels, continuing to insist that German morale was near to a breaking point. In late February 1944 he wrote to the Under Secretary of State at the Air Ministry to protest the language used in press statements about “the state of mind of the German populace.” He insisted that “incontestable evidence derived from Most secret sources” predicted a “German defeat comparatively quickly” through a “collapse of morale as well as of production on the homefront.” Harris protested use of the word “apathy” to describe the popular mood in Germany; he found the term weak and misleading, and argued that the situation was better described as one of “the utmost despair, of terror and of panic not always held in control by the authorities.” He insisted that the Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC) investigate the evidence on the state of German morale, and that descriptions more in line with his views be offered to the public.”  In fact, both the JIC and the Assistant Chief of Air Staff (ACAS) for Intelligence were then undertaking evaluations of German morale, and the results did not support Harris’s assumptions. The latter argued that since the Berlin campai