ble progress toward victory, and, as time passed, American B-29s became increasingly vulnerable to North Korean air defenses: by the end of 1951 they were forced to fly almost exclusively at night.‘  Airmen were frustrated by the politics of the limited war, which kept enemy supply sources outside North Korea permanently off the target lists, ensuring that the industrial fabric theory would remain a poor fit with the reality of the situation. After the war General LeMay would argue, “We never did hit a strategic target.”* When MacArthur was fired in April 1951, General Matthew B. Ridgway assumed command of UN Forces. Though he generally restrained the use of bombers, he con- tinued to use them to maintain pressure on Chinese troops. Such pres- sure included interdiction-oriented attacks on Pyongyang (on 30 July and 14 August). But negotiations made little headway, and, in the  CONCLUSION 295  meantime, overworked air crews began to suffer morale problems and high abort rates.”  In May 1952 Ridgway was replaced by Gen. Mark Clark, who was interested in using aircraft to compel movement in the negotiations. Clark authorized a FEAF-designed “air pressure” campaign designed to destroy military targets so situated as to have a “deleterious effect upon the morale of the civilian population actively engaged in the logistic support of enemy forces.”* The rhetoric attempted to frame it carefully and identify it as a logistics campaign, but the emergence of the “air pressure” campaign signaled a familiar pattern of an air force, in frus- tration, turning to an increased emphasis on civilian morale.  The first targets were the previously off-limits North Korean hydro- electric power plants. The attacks saw FEAF destroy 90 percent of North Korea’s hydroelectric potential in less than a week. The cam- paign also renewed full-scale attacks on North Korean cities, beginning in July. The 29 August attack on Pyongyang was designed to “punish the enemy with air power,” yielding a psy