in the field, particularly through observation. He argued that by far the most effective use of air power in the war had been for observation."  With respect to long-range bombing, Baker first noted the wartime proliferation of anti-aircraft defenses, and he observed that “the actual loss of life caused by these bombardments was relatively small and the destruction of property, while large, had no appreciable effect upon the war-making power of either nation.” More importantly, he felt that bombing enemy industry and cities had violated the Hague principle that bombardment be restricted to “fortified places.” Aside from the ongoing legal debate over that phrase, he had no doubt that strategic bombing fell outside of the bounds within which civilized states should conduct warfare. Though cognizant of the appeal of air power and its compelling hold on the public imagination, Baker nonetheless refused to sanction the “inevitability” of long-range air campaigns for the future; indeed, he suggested ruling out strategic bombing on the most “elemen- tal ethical and humanitarian grounds.” And he argued that advocates of strategic bombing created their own paradox: “[I]t is most likely that history will record these manifestations of inhumanity as the most pow- erful aids to [military] recruitment in the nations against which they were made.”"  Partly because of Baker’s strong views, the Air Service was compelled to develop a dual personality: externally (and in official documents) it followed the army line, while internally it developed and nurtured a more congenial, independent ideology. As time went on, the latter phi- losophy became increasingly dominant among the restless American air- men. This trend toward independent thinking was greatly facilitated by the establishment of a school system. In October 1919 the Director of Air Service sought permission to establish an “Army Air Service School of Application” at Langley Field, Virginia, to “develop and standardize the i