n. Cyril Newall—to fly reprisal raids against Germany. In a foreshadowing of 1939-40, the French urged the British not to launch strikes that would encourage German retaliation on French cities. The 41st Wing (renamed the Eighth Brigade in February 1918) was the forerunner of an “Independent Force” (IF), which would operate as an air reprisal force during the final year of the war. Its activities were constrained by a shortage of suitable aircraft, inadequately trained crews, lack of navigational instruments, and poor weather."  An ad hoc effort, Newall’s offensive achieved only limited results. Though he would have preferred more resources, he believed that bombing which was ineffective on a material level nonetheless had a moral effect on the enemy. At the conclusion of his efforts in May 1918, he submitted a paper to London with the optimistic title “The Scientific and Methodical Attack of Vital Industries” to help inform a strategy for a larger-scale long-range bombing effort. In it Newall asserted, “Up to the present, judging from reports and photographs, actual experience goes to show that the material effect has not been very great, except perhaps in isolated cases, but the moral effect has been considerable.”  36 CHAPTER 1  He argued as well that if his limited effort had caused “so much fear and discontent,” then it was not difficult “to foresee what the effect of twenty or more squadrons, whether day or night, or both, will pro- duce.” Newall’s paper displayed a number of qualities that would re- veal themselves over and over again in the writings of later airmen. The first was a hopefulness about orchestrating sustained attacks on care- fully selected targets. The second was a firm faith that bombing had a significant moral effect even in the absence of significant material dam- age. And the third was a ready willingness to extrapolate from the per- ceived results of earlier bombing raids to overwhelming, decisive air offensives.  While Newall struggled a