on of pilot training, practice flying, and fuel supplies.” Harris never fully appreci- ated the extent to which this pulled British chestnuts out of the fire—or, if he did, he never acknowledged it during the war.”  THE COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE: 1944  In a forward he wrote for a December 1943 report on the progress of the Combined Bomber Offensive, General Arnold stated, “To hasten the end of the war we must achieve the maximum flexibility in our bomb- ing operations, by altering our technique, employing new gadgets, and by any other means found practicable . . . to secure an uninterrupted bombing offensive of the greatest possible effectiveness.”” As noted above he had already employed “new gadgets” allowing the Americans to rely much more frequently on blind bombing, and he moved to im- plement other forms of flexibility. He was, for instance, in agreement with a decision already taken by Spaatz and Doolittle to use escort air- craft in a more aggressive air-to-air combat role instead of tying them to the bombers.”  A break in the weather in mid-February allowed USSTAF to com- mence a mission that had been in the works since the previous Novem- ber: Operation Argument (or “Big Week” as it came to be called) con- centrated the full available weight of American resources against the Luftwaffe, on the ground and in the air. The campaign, prosecuted not only by the strategic bomber forces but also by the tactically oriented Ninth Air Force, caused a temporary decline in German fighter produc- tion—for a cost of 266 heavy bombers and 2,600 aircrew. Although German production levels were thereafter restored, the pause gave American bomber crews some room to commence attacks on other tar- gets considered crucial to the longer-term goals of the strategic cam- paign, including German synthetic oil."” Though dramatic in terms of effort expended, Big Week in itself was not a fatal blow; German muni- tions output would continue to rise through July, and in the autumn a new a