ril the Combined Chiefs of Staff recommended a new bombing directive, which came into effect formally on 5 May. It spe- cified that the main mission of the strategic air forces would be to pro- vide direct assistance to the land campaign.” On 25 April the American Eighth Air Force flew its last raid of the war; the following day the Fifteenth Air Force flew its last raid. Bomber Command Lancasters, which recently had been dispatching twenty-two-thousand-pound “Grand Slam” earthquake bombs, could now take up the rather more pleasant duty of bringing Allied prisoners of war out of formerly Nazi- occupied lands. But the war, for Bomber Command crews and for Sir Arthur Harris in particular, would end on a bitter note. Churchill, in a further effort to downplay strategic bombing in the public mind, de- clined to offer Bomber Command its own campaign medal. The prime minister had not mentioned Bomber Command in his victory speech, and he scarcely mentioned strategic bombing in the six-volume epic he would later write on the war. For Harris, the denial of recognition to his personnel, in light of the sacrifices they had made throughout the war, was an inexcusable affront—further evidence of the preference continu- ally given throughout the war to the older services. In early June, he  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 261  vented his bitterness to the Secretary of State for Air: “[W]henever the armies succeed in doing anything more useful and spectacular than a retreat, a medal is immediately announced for them. When Bomber Command carries on the offensive alone for two years no medal is struck for them—and a share in one is only awarded as an afterthought for crews only.”  THE USAAF AND THE FIREBOMBING OF CITIES: JAPAN, 1945  As the war in Europe reached its end stages, British and American bombers in that theater began preparing for redeployment to the Far East, where their combined power, added to existing might of the Pa- cific bombing fleet, would be loosed on the Japanese ho