s.” In a grim foreshadowing of World War II, he requested from air intelligence a “list of towns and works which specialize in workmen’s dwellings, such dwellings therefore forming a reasonable target, and also a priority list of towns (not targets) in which munitions are being manufactured.”"* The Air Staff also assessed the potential of a new type of incendiary bomb. One memorandum cold-bloodedly stated, “In an incendiary sys-  40 CHAPTER1  tem we are harnessing the element fire and applying it as a war weapon. In deciding on this element, we need no stronger warranty than the universal dread in which fire is held by humanity.” Such bombs, if used systematically, might produce “terrific” results that “no ordinary popu- lace” could endure over time.” At one point Tiverton even recom- mended a type of early biological warfare in which the British would drop planeloads of Colorado beetles on German farmland in order to devastate their potato crops.’  Debates regarding the moral effect invariably reflected the subjective, evanescent nature of the idea and the hopes and motives of its partisans. Perhaps Tiverton put it best when he admitted that the moral effect “is strongly reminiscent of that sweet and blessed word ‘Mesopotamia.’ It is used most loosely to embrace all manner of different enterprises.”"" But whether long-distance bombing was likely to effect any result at all depended on the resources dedicated to it. In Britain, the organizing and equipping of a suitable force lagged considerably behind the prolifera tion of planning documents outlining its employment. Disparities be- tween ideas and capabilities would have an immediate and a long-lasting effect on British bombing efforts.  THE INDEPENDENT FORCE IN ACTION  Aircraft shortages and problems as well as conflicts over priorities would plague the IF just as they had plagued its predecessors. When the 41st Wing (later the Eighth Brigade) had begun operations in the fall of 1917, Newall frequently diverted i