enchardian pattern of falling back on moral effects, he argued, “I am concerned that you will not appreciate the tremendous damage that is being done to the German morale by these attacks through the overcast, since we cannot show you appreciable damage by photographs. .. . The German people cannot take that kind of terror much longer.”*” At the Cairo and Teheran conferences of November and December 1943, Allied air leaders struggled to put a good face on things by offering up a quantification of square miles destroyed and asserting that German mo- rale was “at an extremely low ebb.”* But the reality was grimmer than they let on. Both the Americans and the British were struggling: Bomber Command’s Berlin offensive, highly touted by Harris as a potential war winner, had yet to show results. In the meantime, more and more bombers were falling to Luftwaffe night fighters. Indeed, it is hardly overstatement to argue that, in the winter of 1943-44, the entire Com- bined Bomber Offensive (and therefore the operations that depended upon it) hung in the balance. Official Allied policy continued to call for attacks on the Luftwaffe, but the means by which to do it successfully were not entirely clear. The Americans were facing a crucial choice: either they would have to change targets, as the British had earlier in the war, or change tactics.  Eaker’s rhetorical emphasis on German morale was not enough to save his position. At the end of the year General Arnold sent him to take command of air operations in the Mediterranean. Maj. Gen. James  226 CHAPTER S  Doolittle was installed as the field commander of the Eighth Air Force, and Maj. Gen. Nathan Twining took command of the Fifteenth Air Force, established in northern Italy in November. Carl Spaatz (now a three-star general) assumed overall leadership of the two air forces as commander of the United States Strategic Air Forces (USSTAF) in Eu- rope. When Spaatz took up his new post in late December 1943, he arrived at a crit