dorsed a campaign of selective targeting based on a careful analysis of the enemy’s economic structure. In language reminiscent of the Ameri- can World War I bombing survey (to ascertain “how one industry is dependent on another and what the most important factories of each are”), they wrote, “The specific objective for the offensive will be se- lected only as the result of a careful and complete scientific analysis that would evaluate the effects upon the economic system and estimate the force necessary for suppression or destruction.” Targets analyzed under “the economic sphere” included petroleum, coal, electric power, and transportation facilities. Direct pressure on these might undermine the enemy’s national morale without raising the kinds of ethical ques- tions that might be posed by attacks on targets considered to be “so- cial” or “political” in nature. Resting on assumptions about the com- plex and fragile nature of modern industrial economies, the “industrial fabric” approach postulated that by carefully choosing the right card at the base of an intricate structure, an air force could bring the whole house of cards crashing down. It depended on the same logic that had led British air planners in 1917-18 to talk about “root industries” and “bottleneck targets.” And it was the same argument that William Sher- man had explicated in his 1926 book, Air Warfare. Its appeal in the United States had continued unbroken since the First World War.  The ideology of selective targeting was fully articulated at ACTS by several young officers who happened to be posted together as instruc- tors there in the early 1930s: Donald Wilson, Harold George, Kenneth Walker, and Robert Olds. Walker, in particular, had helped orient think- ing toward high-altitude bombing. Herbert Dargue, who became the new assistant commandant at ACTS in 1934, brought with him an ap- preciation of technological advances in precision bombing and target- ing, including the new Norden bombsight.'™ Al