n those in Europe, Arnold further loosened whatever constraints remained on American bombing; he was unwilling to wait around for those slow to embrace the new methods.  If the inflammability of Japanese cities was folded into an argument about efficiency, it was also recognized as a way of capitalizing on an exploitable weakness and on Japanese fears of air attack. And the tone of the public relations information on the air war in Japan belied the notion of a campaign based solely on economic considerations. As the noose tightened around Japan, the air force was anxious to claim its share of the credit. Once victory was achieved, this desire intensified. The exuberant language of the New York-based Office of Information Services, Headquarters Army Air Forces, revealed that if killing Japa- nese and lowering popular morale was not the principal focus of the incendiary raids, it was certainly seen as a beneficial side effect. One release, called “Highlights of the Twentieth Air Force,” displayed an unrepentant tone of vengeance and celebration, exclaiming that the “Twentieth Air Force Blitz” against Japan culminated in a “fiery perfec- tion” of “jellied fire attacks” that “literally burned Japan out of the war.” The “vaunted Twentieth” had “killed outright 310,000 Japanese, injured 412,000 more, and rendered 9,200,000 homeless.” For “five flaming months . . . a thousand All-American planes and 20,000 Ameri- can men brought homelessness, terror, and death to an arrogant foe, and left him practically a nomad in an almost cityless land.”?"  In his final war dispatch (published after the conclusion of hostilities), General Arnold included a map of Japan, showing each of the sixty-six cities that had been firebombed. To help policymakers and the Ameri- can public appreciate the nature of the achievement, each Japanese city had listed next to it the name of an American city of roughly the same size. In the text accompanying the graphic, Arnold admitted that casu- alties ha