ir Service in Europe in support of Gen. John J. Pershing’s AEE. Mitchell looked upon Foulois’s staff as interlopers, labeling them “carpet-baggers” with neither the experience nor the credentials to run an air campaign in the field.” In May 1918, Gen. Mason Patrick, an engineer, replaced Foulois as Chief of Air Service, AEF. Foulois was to be made Chief of Air Service, First Army, but instead asked to serve as an assistant to Patrick, recommending Mitchell for the crucial combat position. Mitchell took up his new post on 27 July 1918, and in Octo- ber was promoted to brigadier general and appointed Chief of Air Ser- vice, Army Group.2*  Early on, Mitchell prepared two papers on air policy and organiza- tion for General Pershing’s Chief of Staff, Lt. Col. James G. Harbord. He urged that aviation be considered a separate branch, like infantry and artillery, and that aerial operations be divided into “strategical” and “tactical” functions. With respect to the former, he wrote, “The strategical phase . . . applies to the air attack of enemy material of all kinds behind his lines.” He added, “To be successful, large combatant groups of airplanes must be organized, separate from those directly at- tached to army units.” Then he argued optimistically that “this class of aviation . . . will have a greater influence on the ultimate decision of the war than any other one arm.”  Mitchell corresponded with Count Caproni, asked AEF intelligence to draw up a list of potential targets in Germany, and later received a French list of German industrial targets in the Ruhr.” But if Mitchell’s enthusiasm for what he termed “strategical” bombing was emergent, he had to oversee daily the aerial support of armies in the field. At the time, he believed that an army “is composed of various arms and ser- vices whose complete interdependence and working together is neces- sary for efficiency. No one arm alone can bring about complete vic- tory.”** Mitchell’s main task was to control the air o