he technical issues involved. Before being brought in to lead Bomber Command, Harris served as the head of an RAF delega- tion to the United States.”  Though very much a product of Trenchard’s RAF, Harris bristled at Britain’s overall military unpreparedness during the interwar years. He had coauthored the important 1936 Joint Planning Committee report assessing Britain’s options in a war with Germany in 1939. A worst- case scenario, the paper was intended by its authors to light a fire under governmental decision makers. But it had proven a stronger tonic than the Chiefs of Staff were willing to put before the cabinet, and it was circulated in a toned-down form that had the unhelpful effect of head- ing off serious ministerial discussion.” The episode did not prompt Harris to be more circumspect in the future; indeed it had just the oppo- site effect.  Harris was brusque, opinionated, outspoken, and searingly percep- tive. He was also somber in spirit, single-minded, dogged, determined, and, in certain respects at least, thick-skinned. Taking the helm of Bomber Command when he did, he needed these qualities. Throughout 1941 arguments had raged about whether Bomber Command ought to receive the budget and material its advocates claimed would be neces- sary for a successful offensive in the future. Harris set out to convince the nonbelievers. He moved quickly to try to restore the morale of Bomber Command crews, and to win the respect and confidence of the prime minister. With Harris’s headquarters at High Wycombe only a short drive from Chequers the Commander-in-Chief could, and did, fre- quently impress his views on Churchill in person. Though a strong rela- tionship between the two men did not last through the end of the war, it nonetheless helped to secure and bolster the position of Bomber Com- mand at a crucial moment.  When Harris was brought in to take command, his colleagues at the Air Staff knew exactly what they were getting. Harris had never been one to hi