t on the Odhams Printing Works in 1918, helped perpetuate the perception that British defenses were somewhere between inadequate and futile.”  But with respect to both zeppelin and Gotha/Giant raids, British de- fenses improved over time, and the cost to the Germans increased corre- spondingly. Indeed, from the German perspective, the air war looked very different. While it did manage to tie up resources in Britain, it was disappointing in other respects. Improved British defenses forced night flying, which in turn complicated the nemeses of long-range bombing— mechanical difficulties and weather. These took an inevitable toll: of the sixty-two German planes lost during the Gotha/Giant raids, forty-three were lost to operational accidents. British defenses accounted outright for the downing of another nineteen planes—nearly one-third of total German losses. Indeed, during its year of operation, the German bomber force “England Wing” was, in effect, wiped out nearly twice over. The German bomber raid flown on the night of 19 May 1918 had been so costly to its perpetrators—over 20 percent of the attacking force was lost—that it helped persuade them to reorient their bombers  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 75  to tactical roles on the continent. The Germans came away from the war unconvinced that the investment in the Giant bomber—in con- struction costs, maintenance, and servicing—had been worth the effort.”  After the war, Trenchard took the stance that defense-oriented expen- diture should be minimized so as to free as many resources as possible for the prosecution of an all-out bomber offensive against the enemy. As we shall see, Air Staff opinions were not uniform on the issue of the offense-defense balance for indigenous forces, and Trenchard would not have his way entirely in this particular realm. Many in the RAF felt it was essential to do the kind of mathematical calculation that Trenchard eschewed: to find the ideal proportion of fighters and bombers that would b