commit too rapidly to aircraft designs that might well become obsolete on the production line. Their concerns were not unjustified since aircraft technology was in a period of particular flux and development. The switch from wood to metal construction, for instance, demanded increased commitments to devel- opment and testing. Second, initial rearmament schemes were designed to insure that Britain maintained “parity” with Germany’s expanding air force. The government saw parity as a means of deterrence, and as a way of maintaining diplomatic credibility without engaging in undue provocation. But parity was a problematical concept because defining and calculating force levels was difficult, and because it gave Germany the initiative."” Third, and perhaps most importantly, rearmament took place without adequate assessment of the purpose and development of the German air force.” This reflected not only a tendency to rely over- much on preconceptions, but also a failure to appreciate and prioritize intelligence information that would form a basis for informed decision making. The underappreciation of intelligence also meant chronic staff shortages and underfunding in that realm, All this resulted in unhelpful fluctuations in Air Ministry attitudes and actions in the years leading up to war: after putting forward conservative estimates of the German Luftwaffe growth early on, Air Ministry officials became alarmed and remained so through the end of the Munich crisis in 1938. Lacking adequate information on the purpose of the Luftwaffe—information that would have included technical intelligence like aircraft performance characteristics and data on bombs and bombsights—British air planners assumed that its role would not be very much different from the role they envisioned for the RAF. Thus, as the Luftwaffe expanded, the Air Ministry ultimately relied on worst case scenarios that envisioned a massive German air strike aimed at producing a quick surrender, mainly by breaking