ion of the harrowing experience of the 1914-18 war. As I explain in chapters 2 and 3, this process moved more quickly in Britain than the United States, but both found themselves in essentially the same place by the Second World War.  Not all of the story is unique to Britain and the Unites States, how- ever. Their thinking, planning, and decision making illuminates patterns generalizable to other military organizations in other places and times. Individuals and institutions have commonalities in the way they per- ceive new information, interpret experience, and respond to change. This exposes them to similar types of misperceptions, errors, and mal- adaptations, particularly in times of rapid change. My analysis relies on a few basic concepts borrowed from cognitive psychology.’ These shed light on how and why air theorists in Britain and the United States perceived information and interpreted experience as they did.  All decision makers use cognitive processes to make sense of their complicated and stressful environments. Two forms of information- processing bias in particular seem pertinent here. The first derives from the problem of environmental complexity. To organize a vast array of incoming sensory information without being overwhelmed, we all use data-processing shortcuts. Most of the time, these shortcuts serve us well. Sometimes, however, they skew perceptions in ways that can have problematic consequences. For example, we tend to assimilate incoming information to fit existing beliefs and expectations. If all our basic un- derstandings were subject to wholesale revision with every new datum, we would be in constant turmoil, changing direction so often as to become virtually aimless. Remaining impervious to new information would be just as useless. Thus, we are neither fully open nor fully closed  INTRODUCTION 5  to the implications of new information. While a preponderance of con- trary information can eventually shift our beliefs, any given datum will t