ficient and ethically troubling. The desire to see the war over in 1944 was strong— so strong, in fact, that it caused American air planners to hope that by creating enough disillusionment and chaos in Germany they might force an internal crisis. In certain respects, Thunderclap might be thought of as a manifestation of the idea, set out in 1941 in AWPD/1, that at a moment of particular weakness toward the end of war the enemy might be vulnerable to a major air attack for psychological effect.” As the governmental and administrative center of the Third Reich, Berlin held an enormous attraction: between early March and late June 1944 the Americans bombed it nine times. Spaatz’s concern may well have been aroused by the idea of a massive attack on Berlin in conjunction with Bomber Command. Though the Americans had relied increasingly on inaccurate nonvisual bombing, and though they had attacked targets defined simply as “cities and towns” throughout 1944, they still contin- ued to think of themselves as “precision bombers” with a mission dis- tinct from the British. Maintaining that distinction meant keeping a  240 CHAPTER S  careful distance from Bomber Command. Historian Richard G. Davis put it succinctly when he pointed out that the American airmen “judged themselves by their motives rather than their results.”'* They wanted others to do the same.  But even as they sought to protect their image and to keep their dis- tance from Bomber Command, the Americans looked at ways in which the moral effect of bombing might be employed to Allied advantage. In response to the V-weapon attacks on England, USSTAF had worked up a plan (Operation Shatter) to bomb over one hundred German cities in a single day, thus demonstrating the demise of the Luftwaffe and the vulnerability of the German people. Its planners paid close attention to terminology: aim points would be transportation links, government buildings, and minor industries. In the autumn, the prospect of widely scattered