1944 was the most important single cause of Germany’s ultimate economic collapse.” The author explained, “The operation of Germany's raw material in- dustries, her manufacturing industries, and her power supply were all dependent on coal. By January [1945] their stocks were becoming ex- hausted and collapse was inevitable. ... From December 1944 on- wards, all sectors of the German economy were in rapid decline. This collapse was due to the results of air raids working in combination with other causes.”*  A separate USSBS report titled “The Impact of the Allied Air Effort on German Logistics,” which examined the effect of aerial attacks on German army supply lines, argued that attacks on transport targets pre- vented the enemy from effectively concentrating men and matériel at critical times and places. Transport, the authors argued, was the weak- est link in the German logistics chain, and thus “its failure was the immediate cause of the breakdown of the supply system, and conse- quently was a decisive factor in the breakdown of the German army.” Both the strategic and tactical air forces were credited for their contri- bution to this outcome.’! The Over-all and Summary reports accord- ingly stressed the importance of transport attacks in undermining Ger- many’s ability to fight the war.  The USSBS also highlighted the utility of General Spaatz’s pet project, the oil campaign; unsurprisingly, perhaps, the USSBS gave a good deal of attention to the oil plan, which came closest to fulfilling the aspira- tions of the “industrial fabric” theory. The American official historians of the bombing campaign reflected and reinforced this finding, writing, “The air offensive against German oil production was the pride of the  276 CHAPTER S$  US. Strategic Air Forces. Initiated through the insistence of its officers, effective immediately, and decisive within less than a year, this campaign proved to be a clear-cut illustration of strategic air-war doctrine.”** Galbraith’s repo