lians in future conflicts. With regard to aerial bombing, the moral effect would soon take on a life of its own.  THE OPENING ROUNDS: ZEPPELINS OVER BRITAIN, 1914418  Because interested nations grasped the potential utility of striking di- rectly at an enemy state, ideas about strategic bombing developed si- multaneously with ideas about other forms of aerial combat. During the First World War, both German and French pilots quickly began air at- tacks on targets not directly related to the land battles. On 14 August 1914, for instance, a German pilot flew to the outskirts of Paris and dropped two small (four-pound) bombs on the urban dwellers below. Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin’s airships offered the Germans another means of striking at enemy populations.** Perhaps the most aggressive advocate of the use of “zeppelins” for strategic bombing was Rear Adm. Paul Behncke, Deputy Chief of the German Naval Staff. In the summer and fall of 1914, he argued that by bombing London, its docks, and the Admiralty Building in Whitehall, it might be possible to “cause panic in the population which may possibly render it doubtful that the war can be continued.”*”  In Britain, decisions had to be made about how to utilize the nation’s air assets. While it has often been argued that British aviation developed more slowly than in France and Germany, historian David Edgerton has pointed out that between 1908 and 1914 a large number of British private firms began to manufacture aircraft, and that by 1914 Britain owned the largest air force—in proportion to its ground force—in the world.” Britain’s status relative to other aerial powers was hotly de- bated at the time, however, as was the question of air force organiza- tion. These debates were marked by divisions among groups with differ- ing agendas and institutional interests. In 1911 the Air Battalion of the Royal Engineers had been formed, and in 1912 the Royal Flying Corps (REC), originally comprising both a military and a naval wi