he RAF. Thus, as the Luftwaffe expanded, the Air Ministry ultimately relied on worst case scenarios that envisioned a massive German air strike aimed at producing a quick surrender, mainly by breaking civilian morale. As historian Wesley Wark has pointed out, “the public's apocalyptic vision was matched by a professional air staff nightmare about a future war.”"  In late 1933 the government set up the Defence Requirements Com- mittee (DRC) to sort out priorities and to remedy the “worst deficien- cies” in Britain’s defenses.” It suggested modernizing Britain’s aging battle fleet; preparing an expeditionary force equal to that of 1914; and completing an updated version of the RAF’s 1923 expansion scheme.  112 CHAPTER 2  The decision to upgrade all three services reflected concern over the Japanese threat to British interests in the Far East, apparent since 1931." The report was referred to the Ministerial Committee on Disarmament— dominated by Chancellor of the Exchequer Neville Chamberlain— which upended some of its premises. Concerned about the cost of re- armament, and not convinced that the public would support a large buildup in the Far East or an expansion of the army, Chamberlain opted for an aerial deterrent. He believed that Germany was the foremost threat, persuading himself that Japan would not attack Britain unless Britain were involved in hostilities with Germany, so a deterrent to Ger- many would deter Japan as well. Accordingly, he proposed cutting the DRC allocations to the army and navy, while increasing the allocation to the RAF to allow for eighty squadrons rather than the original fifty- two."  In the early deliberations on the German threat and the British reac- tion, the Air Ministry had moved carefully and produced conservative estimates, believing that Hitler would develop strength rationally, and in depth (rather than in the “shop window”). This assessment reflected the Air Ministry’s own concern for efficiency, as well as assumptions about t