42, just days after Bomber Com- mand’s new directive had focused it on the morale of German workers, the British Air Staff in Washington conveyed to the Air Ministry in London the essentials of U.S. air plans. The Americans were “very firmly convinced of the inadequacy of the night bombing and conse- quently of the need to intensify the day bombing effort.” Heavy bombers would be sent to Britain, and the Americans hoped that with improved armament and crew training these bombers could operate without fighter escort.” The British knew that this commitment to day- light “precision” bombing would cause a number of difficulties, and they made clear to the Americans their doubts about deep penetrations into Germany during daylight. They urged the Americans to join them, with the RAF as senior partner, in a bomber offensive waged by night."  Clearly, the Americans and the British were heading in two very dif- ferent directions, and these had to be reconciled somehow. In the event, the process would prove to be tumultuous. The British, due to their own grim experience, had no faith in the Americans’ ability successfully to conduct a daylight precision campaign over Germany. The Ameri- cans, for their part, had no interest in changing their plans. Historian Noble Frankland, in a paper he delivered at the United States Air Force Academy long after the end of World War II, argued that there were three reasons why the Americans had clung so tenaciously to daylight bombing of selected military targets even though there was plenty of evidence to indicate that it was a problematic strategy: (1) they believed that the B-17 was better suited to daytime operations than to nighttime ones; (2) they were unimpressed with the British effort; and (3) they were simply determined to operate their own air forces independently." He was quite right on all counts, though his third point deserves elab- oration. USAAF commanders, focused as they had been on the fight for organizational independe