particular, he believed neither that his force could consistently hit oil targets, nor that its light scale of attack against such targets could generate worthwhile results. He argued that for tactical reasons scattered bombing was unavoidable. Using an old argument of Trenchard’s, he rationalized that dispersal “largely in- creases the moral effect of our operations by the alarm and disturbance created over the wider area.”**  German air attacks on Britain peaked in August. Following the fall of some German bombs on London the night of 24 August 1940, Bomber Command retaliated with attacks on industrial targets in Berlin (25 Au- gust). Portal believed that German behavior in the war to date had freed Britain to “take the gloves off” and give as good as she got. Churchill’s thinking ran along the same lines. In July he had written to Lord Bea- verbrook, Minister for Aircraft Production, about the need for an “ab- solutely devastating exterminating attack by very heavy bombers from this country upon the Nazi homeland.”** Churchill suggested that Portal might spread his attacks as widely as possible over cities in Germany. But most Air Staff members still preferred to prioritize selective attack, despite Portal’s reservations.*’ Indeed, one memorandum from the Air Ministry’s Plans Division—suggesting curious gaps in organizational coordination, and revealing the extent of misplaced optimism in some circles—argued that, since Bomber Command had been adequately trained for precise bombing of important selected targets, anything less would have little appeal." A new bombing directive, issued 21 Septem- ber, continued to stress the disruption of Germany’s oil supply as the basis for long-term offensive policy. In the meantime the Germans had begun to supplement the daylight battle with nighttime bombing. Ini- tially this concentrated on London but was soon extended to other Brit- ish cities.”  Portal, acutely aware of the limitations of his force, wanted to follow  RHETOR