. Indeed, the B-10 marked a new generation of machines: it proved that greater size did not necessarily mean slower speeds (instead, aerodynamic efficiency could be increased with size). But the B-10’s range did not extend be- yond that required for support missions. With the long-range reconnais- sance mission in its pocket, however, the Air Corps had the opportunity to change its future, and to move closer to becoming the radically new tool of war that so many of its members hoped it might be. The real breakthrough in this realm—pregnant with policy implications—was the development of a plane with much greater range than the B-10.”  In response to a 1933 design proposal circulated by the Air Corps, the Boeing Company put forward a four-engine bomber of radical de- sign. In 1935 tests, the prototype YB-17, which had a top speed of 250 mph, made a record-breaking flight from Seattle to Dayton. It could carry a load of 2,500 pounds for 2,260 miles at cruising speed. The Air Corps was, unsurprisingly, very enthusiastic about the new plane; it rec- ommended the purchase of sixty-five of them for delivery in 1936. For- mal testing and acquisition was held up when the prototype crashed in October 1935 (due to human error rather than mechanical failure).” In August 1937 the Air Corps finally was in possession of its first thirteen B-17 bombers. Training and maneuvers soon confirmed its advantages for sea-search and bombing operations. Using the newly developed Nor- den bombsight, B-17 pilots were able to score hits (with water-filled  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 147  bombs) against battleships. Col. Hugh Knerr, Chief of Staff of the GHQ, exclaimed that his headquarters believed that the B-17 was the “best bombardment aircraft in existence.” The American official histo- rians of the World War II bombing campaign summed up this momen- tum perceptively: “The Air Corps after 1935 was characterized not so much by its concern to change the basic organization of national de-