was not, on seven nights and three days in the last three months of 1944. Despite the difficulty of resolving the issue finally, several observations are worth raising. First, despite his grudging rhetoric, Harris responded to pres- sure from the Air Ministry: knowing he was under Portal’s scrutinizing  252 CHAPTER S$  eye seems to have made him inclined to devote more overall effort to oil. For instance, Harris raised his total tonnage on oil from 6 percent of Bomber Command’s total in October, to more than 24 percent in November. None of the November total, however, relied on visual methods.*” While this shift does not prove anything in itself, it seems at least to imply that what was “possible” depended in part on what the commander-in-chief was motivated to do. Second, a major part of Harris’s argument had nothing to do with weather or operational lim- itations: the assertion that the Germans would continue to find ways to work around their oil shortage had everything do to with Harris’s own assumptions, which were unrelated to data then available from reliable intelligence sources. This in itself could not fail to raise Portal’s doubts about the degree to which Harris had committed himself to attacking oil on every possible occasion. And third, if Harris had been willing earlier to change tactics only on the margin—an additional one or two raids against oil per month by the enormously potent Lancasters—it might have made a discernable difference to the German war effort. Whether it might have precluded or greatly inhibited the Ardennes of- fensive of December 1944 is very difficult to know, but it is certainly one of the more intriguing “what ifs” of the war.  From January through April 1945, Bomber Command carried out 74 operations against 49 oil targets (38 at night and 36 in daylight). On eleven occasions more than one oil target was attacked in a single night. “Thus,” the official historians concluded, “if by no means a maximum effort, the Bomber Command pa