ar some promising news, lent an ear, He could find little solace elsewhere. On Christmas Day 1941 the British had surrendered Hong Kong to the Japanese; on 1 February 1942 British forces evacuated Derna; two weeks later Singapore capitulated. Rom- mel advanced while German U-boats shredded Allied shipping. Pressing questions of Allied grand strategy soon would have to be settled, and Churchill needed options to pose against those preferred by the Ameri- cans and, especially, the Soviets."°* The members of the RAF delegation in Washington also needed official commentary on the bomber cam- paign to resonate, positive and unqualified. They were determined to encourage all-out American production and avoid giving American na- valists any opening for concentrating on Japan instead of Germany." Timing did, indeed, make the difference. Harris now had an apparent green light from the highest policy levels to proceed full speed ahead.  On the night of 30 May 1942, Bomber Command launched the first of its “thousand bomber raids” on Cologne. In a dramatic but risky effort to create support for Bomber Command by showing what it might achieve if expanded, Harris scraped together his assets by calling upon reserves, including crews in training. The raid produced dramatic results, damaging about one-third of the total area of the city. It greatly strained the capacity of the force, however, and could not be regularly repeated without a serious increase in resources. But it provided impres- sive copy for the newspapers and raised the spirits of those on the homefront. With Harris in charge, new aircraft types coming into pro- duction, and improved target-finding techniques in development, there seemed reason to hope that the bomber offensive might offer some check on Hitler’s plans. When Churchill met Stalin in mid-August, news about the progress and prospects for Bomber Command was the only thing that pleased and brightened the Soviet leader who felt, otherwise, that the British w