nce to become one, and then encouraged me all through graduate school. Paul Kennedy, who advised this project when it was a doctoral thesis, was an inspired role model for me in every sense. My Duke colleague Alex Roland has been no less an inspiring role model, and has helped to make working in the field of military history both a pleasure and a privilege. I thank him for his unfailing willingness to read drafts of my work and to offer—always—incisive advice.  Those who aided me and influenced my thinking in the early stages of this project include: Ashton Carter, Stephen Van Evera, Sir Michael Howard, Robert O’Neill, Noble Frankland, Ramsay D. Potts, David Maclsaac, and the late Lord Zuckerman. I am particularly indebted to Air Commodore Henry Probert, RAF (ret.), former head of the Air His- torical Branch, RAF, who offered patient guidance to a novice re- searcher who first turned up in his office many years ago.  No project of this nature can be undertaken without substantial fi- nancial assistance. For their support of my work over the years I am greatly indebted to: Yale University, the Social Science Research Coun- cil, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University, the U.S. Air Force Historical Research Center, The Brookings Institution, the National Air and Space Museum, and Duke University. Luke Arant, Lisa Kellmeyer, and D’Arcy Brissman provided able research assistance; Wayne Lee helped bring me into the computer age. Teresa Lawson and Kathy Goldgeier offered excellent editorial guidance on the final manu- script. I thank the U.S. Army’s Military History Institute for support through the Harold K. Johnson Visiting Professorship, 2001-2002.  Over the years I have benefited enormously from the resources and assistance made available to me by the staffs of the Air Historical Branch, RAF (UK), the Office of Air Force History (USA), the Air Force Historical Research Center (USA