ce that these were ‘precision’ raids a little puzzling.”*”  In its internal history written at the time, the USAAF did not cite “undermining enemy morale” as a reason for the shift to the nighttime incendiary attacks. While recognizing that their tactics represented a “radical departure from the traditional doctrine,” they attempted to maintain consistency by arguing that they “were not conceived as terror raids against the civilian population.” The authors explained, “The Jap- anese economy depends heavily on home industries carried on in cities or settlements close to major factory areas. By destroying these feeder industries the flow of vital parts could be curtailed and production dis- organized.” And they added, “A general conflagration in a city like Tokyo or Nagoya might have the further advantage of spreading to some of the priority targets located in those areas, making it unnecess- ary to knock them out by separate pinpoint attacks.”**°  In the European theater the Americans focused on intentions rather than outcomes. In doing so, they had persuaded themselves that they were being true to the concept of “precision bombing” even when such  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 269  bombing was desperately inaccurate. In the Far Eastern theater, the Americans worked hard to link their actions to the general philosophy behind the industrial fabric theory. But in many respects the Americans followed a path similar to the one the British had followed in Europe: rationalizing their choices by reference to the particular psychology of the Japanese, and to the indirect effects of area bombing. To this the Americans added arguments about the peculiar structure of Japanese industry. Looking for a way to end the war quickly, and faced with operational problems even more daunting than those in Europe, Arnold further loosened whatever constraints remained on American bombing; he was unwilling to wait around for those slow to embrace the new methods.  If the inflammability of Japan