receiving full recognition for his ideas, and from becoming a leading name in the history of U.S. Air Force thought.  By the end of the decade, American airmen were increasingly lured by the promise of the bomber and its cardinal role in the offensive theory of air warfare, and they were increasingly willing to run the risk of chafing their parent service. In 1928 the Air Corps Tactical School com- mitted to paper a statement on “The Doctrine of the Air Force.” It went beyond what the War Department would have been prepared to en- dorse. Even so, the Office of the Chief of the Air Corps argued that it was too guarded and subordinate in tone.‘  As advocates of independent air power found their stride, they in- creasingly began to brush aside the candid observations about bomber vulnerability that had appeared in American writing just after World War I. And this tendency was furthered by a growing consensus that increasingly shut out dissenting voices. Subsequent trends in annual ma- neuvers, which had begun in 1925, portended a decline in the promi- nence once accorded the pursuit plane in the United States.  Air exercises annually brought units of the Corps areas together to  142 CHAPTER 3  train and test equipment, tactics, and logistics. The maneuvers of May 1929, held in Ohio, were more sophisticated than in previous years. Results were determined by rules established by the umpires. As in Brit- ain, these gave the advantage to attackers: for instance, bombers would be declared to have succeeded in their mission unless they were inter- cepted by pursuit aircraft (fighters) possessing two to one superiority. As chief umpire for the 1929 maneuvers, Maj. Walter H. Frank (the serving commandant of ACTS) reported that pursuit aircraft found it difficult to locate and intercept bombers. He argued, “There is consider- able doubt among the umpires as to the ability of any air organization to stop a well-organized, well-flown air force attack.” Back at ACTS, Lt. Kenneth W