ficant material dam- age. And the third was a ready willingness to extrapolate from the per- ceived results of earlier bombing raids to overwhelming, decisive air offensives.  While Newall struggled along as best he could, the effort to get a larger reprisal effort up and running was plagued by ongoing organiza- tional difficulties. These have been documented elsewhere and will not be discussed in detail here.’” Still, some of these problems deserve brief mention since they affected the results of Britain’s first major strategic bombing effort. Air organization had troubled the British throughout the war, and the rather dramatic discontinuities of the Smuts Report only increased the tumult. Haig had been strongly opposed to any no- tion of removing Trenchard from his field command so that he could serve as an administrator of the new service, and Trenchard himself was just as firmly opposed.” Nonetheless, Trenchard was recalled from France to serve as the first Chief of Air Staff (CAS), and Lord Rother- mere was named the first Secretary of State for Air. While Rothermere rosily imagined great reprisal raids against German cities, Trenchard hewed to the operational reality: the British effort involved only a few squadrons equipped with bombers of limited range, and not fully capa- ble of coping in poor weather.”  At continual loggerheads with his minister, Trenchard chose to tender his resignation in March 1918. It was accepted in April, once the crisis of the great German ground offensive had abated somewhat. Trenchard was replaced by his old rival Sir Frederick Sykes—now a major gen- eral—who had long held a more ambitious view of strategic bombing possibilities than Trenchard."® Rothermere himself resigned shortly thereafter, and was replaced by Sir William Weir, a Scottish businessman with a long-standing interest in strategic bombing. Once in his new post, Weir persuaded Trenchard to take charge of the soon-to-be-established “Independent Force,” emphasizing tha