ugh its public rhetoric stressed the latter. In the 1920s and early 1930s, the most important operational aspects of waging a strategic air campaign received inadequate attention, including those—like navigation—that could have been treated seriously and adequately even by a financially strapped air force. Beginning with rearmament in the mid-1930s, the RAF had either to develop or reframe its thinking with respect to every- thing from navigation to targeting to matching aircraft types to mis- sions. And even when this got underway, the RAF moved slowly. Fund- ing was less the reason than a tendency to rely overmuch on prevailing assumptions and assertions, and to promote simplistic interpretations that eschewed real analysis and begged many important questions about strategic bombing. While these types of problems were unique neither to the RAF (the army and the navy had similar troubles) nor Britain, they must be considered if we are to comprehend the fortunes of the RAF through the early years of World War IL.  ‘THE SEEDS OF LATER TROUBLES  So long as the central tenets of Trenchardian thought remained un- challenged externally there was no incentive to question them, partic- ularly since they served institutional interests very effectively. The war had highlighted any number of crucial but only partly resolved issues, including the problems of night and bad weather flying, the vulner- ability of bombers, and the nature of civilian will. But little work had been done since 1918 to help shed light on these problems. Since Tren- chard felt that he understood the World War I experience (and since analyzing it more carefully might have meant calling some of his deci- sions into question or placing the RAF in a less favorable light), he had little incentive to undertake such an evaluation, even though it would have been inexpensive and instructive.  Even though the Independent Force had little choice but to fly most  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 89  of its missions at ni