nemy civilians, were sustained by a stubborn faith in the potential of bombers. The combined bomber offensive was characterized by constant adaptation and adjustment; its history is one of ongoing, real-time reconciliation of plans and capabilities, sustained by an optimism often at odds with the realities of the situation.  Unable at the outset of war to follow through on Trenchard’s strident policy of relentless offensive, RAF decision makers put a premium on air strategies designed to shield Britain and avoid pushing Germany into a “gloves off” all-out aerial assault against cities. Weakness circum- scribed the range of possible action: defending Britain and conserving the bombing force for a later day became the new priorities.’ The RAF fitfully adjusted its plans and tactics to cope with losses, limited capa- bilities, small force size, and the lingering array of problems that had never been solved during the interwar years. But British reliance on the bomber as a tool of war was hardly abandoned. In June 1940, those who stood with Prime Minister Winston Churchill and rejected accom- modation with Hitler did so in part because of their faith in the pros- pects for aerial bombing. Later, German defeat in the battle of Britain did not dampen British enthusiasm for waging a strategic air campaign  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 177  against Germany: British planners were able to persuade themselves that their conception of air power was more sophisticated than Ger- many’s, and that they would not make the same mistakes that their enemy had made. But the early years of the British air offensive saw one disappointment after another. Bomber Command’s weak performance raised a chorus of critical voices demanding that the RAF justify its sizable portion of the national defense effort. Churchill endured his own crisis of doubt about Bomber Command, but he was not prepared to reallocate radically British defense resources in the midst of the war.  Under pressure to brin