ustry, with priority placed on the aircraft industry, were disappointing—indeed they produced little consequential damage. This made Arnold particularly uneasy, for he feared that if American bombers did not make headway in an air force controlled operation, they would be parceled out to army and navy theater commanders.”  The B-29 bomber was the backbone of the Twenty-first Bomber Com- mand. The large plane—the air force’s “three billion dollar gamble” — was to be a war-winning airplane, and thus it had much to prove. The AAF and General Arnold in particular had staked a great deal on the plane. After the second experimental B-29 flew successfully on 27 June 1943, manufacturing sites were set up in Wichita, Kansas; Marietta, Georgia; Omaha, Nebraska; and Seattle, Washington. B-29s were hur- ried off assembly lines to meet President Roosevelt’s pledge that 200 of the aircraft would be ready for combat in Asia by March 1944. But the rush—off the drawing board and off the assembly line both—had costs: the aircraft suffered engine failures, fires, dead power plants, and jammed gear boxes. Thousands of modifications were required to make the plane operationally reliable and effective.”  The manifold teething problems of the B-29 were a major factor in Hansell’s (and Wolfe’s) difficulties, but the weather over Japan was even more of an obstacle. Constant cloud cover, and the prevailing winds of the jet stream (which were imperfectly understood at the time), made it nearly impossible for bombers to keep and hold formation and to bomb their targets accurately. These problems were exacerbated by the unsat- isfactory nature of weather forecasting in the theater and the fact that, due to the long distances being flown, navigational errors could not be corrected: aircraft that went astray either had to return early or bomb a target of opportunity.””  As the failures mounted, General Arnold grew impatient with Han- sell. Like other American commanders and politicians, Arnold wa