15 October there were 579. At the armistice, U.S. aviators had available only 457 airplanes.” Nonetheless, Mitchell be- lieved that his stress on concentration protected American troops by dispersing and thwarting enemy air. His views, reinforced by the appar- ent success of the autumn campaigns, would establish the principle of concentration as aerial dogma in the United States.  “Strategical” Bombardment  At war’s end, the United States had only one night-bomber squadron in operation. It had been equipped with DH4 aircraft, and had been as- signed to the front only on 9 November 1918.”* American thinking about long-range bombing was not completely stymied, though, as ob- servers on the scene gathered some practical insights. And while optim- ism about production still existed, plans and guidelines for the long- range bombing campaign continued apace. The First World War gave American airmen a basis—however partial and rudimentary—on which to build future ideas about the role and nature of long-range aerial bombardment.  After the Bolling Commission disbanded in late August 1917, Major Bolling was promoted to colonel and made an assistant chief of the Air Service. Maj. Edgar S. Gorrell, an aeronautical engineer, took over the Air Service Technical Section in Paris, managing purchases of air maté- riel in Europe.” Through this period Gorrell’s enthusiasm for strategic bombing continued to grow. As a member of the Bolling Commission, Gorrell had been receptive to Caproni’s ideas and, in the autumn of  54 CHAPTER 1  1917, the two men continued to interact. In a memorandum to Colonel Bolling dated 15 October, Gorrell argued that the Air Service could in- flict “immense destruction” on German morale and matériel by initiat- ing a systematic campaign of night bombing.” During that same month, Caproni gave Gorrell a book on aerial bombing—essentially a compilation of Caproni’s views—by Italian journalist Nino Salvaneschi. Written in English, the slim volume was clearly in