e City,” which determined that the New York metropolitan area relied upon twenty-six generating  162 CHAPTER 3  plants within a radius of twenty-two and a half miles. The author as- sumed, optimistically, that one direct hit with a large bomb might take a power plant out of action for up to six months.”  Attempts by ACTS faculty to compile a data base for comprehensive analysis fell short however. An instructor in the “Air Force” course in 1937, Maj. Muir S. Fairchild, wrote to the Army War College to discuss ways to determine the amount of destruction a particular target might require to have a “decisive” effect.” Fairchild raised the possibility of ACTS personnel working with the Industrial War College or the Brook- ings Institution to answer such questions. He expressed concern that ACTS instructors alone could not authoritatively answer such “funda- mental national questions.” Putting all the pieces together would re- quire excellent intelligence information, augmented and assessed by economists and statisticians.“* He was correct in this. Unfortunately, however, the esoteric arts of intelligence and target analysis did not ma- ture before the war: they would develop, instead, in the crucible of war- time events. Only in 1939 would a tiny economic analysis section be established inside the Office of the Chief of the Air Staff. This meant, however, that the fundamental and foundational data on which the the- ory necessarily rested remained underdeveloped. In addition, the con- nections between air force action and enemy responses remained vague and speculative.  In both the RAF and the Air Corps, the general objective of the bomber advocates was the same: to undermine the enemy’s will to fight—directly and efficiently—by aerial attacks on an enemy’s points of vulnerability. Their enthusiasm for this new approach to warfare stemmed from the assumption that it would prove more powerful, more effective, and more expeditious than any mode of warfare ever previ- ously