ankfurt, in which  46 CHAPTER1  it was claimed that the attack—carried out by only one bomber—had killed 120 persons and left the Opera House a “heap of ruins.” Inter- viewed for the story, Trenchard repeatedly argued that, “the damage to moral is out of all proportion to the number of bombs dropped.” Keep- ing German towns under constant apprehension about being bombed, he asserted, made unremitting demands on the enemy’s defenses. Even bombers on their way to other targets would trigger air raid alerts: “Every big German town hit at once screams for assistance. In this way hundreds of guns, searchlights, planes, and thousands of men have been drawn away from the front to meet the occasional attacks of a compar- atively small number of assailants. It would be no exaggeration to say that every unit of the Independent Force immobilizes at least 50 times its fighting value from the ranks of the enemy.”"”  Trenchard’s mathematics were not based upon any rational calcula- tion or operational observation, but instead concocted to impress the Daily Mail readership. Even though he felt that the press had helped lead Britain to some unfortunate choices, Trenchard clearly felt obli- gated to feed its ongoing appetite. Indeed, he was so insistent upon media coverage that the Air Staff became concerned that his habit of announcing virtually every raid might jeopardize the campaign by giv- ing away too much information to the Germans."* Cultivating public opinion also meant satisfying politicians and the civilian leaders of the young RAF, who were often strident and vengeful in their desire for reprisal raids." According to Trenchard’s biographer, Lord Weir once said to Trenchard, “I would like it very much if you would start up a really big fire in one of the German towns.” He added, “If I were you I would not be too exacting as regards accuracy in bombing railway sta- tions in the middle of towns. The German is susceptible to bloodiness, and I would not mind a few accidents d