yssinia, and the Spanish civil war.  By this time as well, the ideas of the Italian air enthusiast, Gen. Giulio Douhet, were becoming more widely known in English-speaking coun- tries, Douhet’s 1921 book, The Command of the Air, had painted a graphic vision of societal collapse in the face of air attack. Indeed, it was the futurist drama he conveyed rather than the analytical rigor of his ideas that gave Douhet a lasting place in the canon of air warfare.’  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 107  A poet, painter, playwright, and amateur novelist, Douhet brought to bear on his work “the intense modernist fascination with the latest ad- vances in science and technology—with the automobile, with electricity, with gas and finally with the aeroplane—prevalent in prewar Italian protofascist avant-garde culture.”'*’ Though both British and American airmen developed indigenous theories of air warfare that did not de- pend on Douhet—and though there is no evidence that Douhet was widely read in Britain before the 1930s—his ideas were cited thereafter and used to support apocalyptic visions of air warfare.'*  Douhet’s vision stressed the offensive, indeed he referred to aircraft as the offensive weapon “par excellence.” Postulating that vast destruction could be wrought by fifty squadrons of bombers, he asked his readers, “How could a country go on living and working under this constant threat, oppressed by the nightmare of imminent destruction and death?” Douhet was impressed by the possibilities of attack against those of “least moral resistance,” such as factory workers.’*’ His vision was one of technological determinism. He wrote, “The brutal but inescapable conclusion we must draw is this: in the face of the technical develop- ments of aviation today, in case of war the strongest army we can de- ploy . . . and the the strongest navy we can dispose . . . will provide no effective defense against determined efforts . . . to bomb our cities.”** But Douhet’s perspective was narrow, a