ng won success on a single platform: changing the government's policy on home air defense. He energetically fulfilled his public mandate, making himself “almost a daily pest” in the House of Commons as he called insistently for im- proved home defense and reprisals.  The first great breech of British air space had left its mark: while the zeppelins caused no general panic or social upheaval, they nonetheless brought the war home to the British populace in an unprecedented way. The homefront population had sought a voice in the prosecution of modern conflict, and the government had been forced to take notice. In the popular reaction to the zeppelins, some British authorities thought they saw a manifestation of some of the upheaval that prewar specula- tion had predicted. After the war, British successes against the later zep- pelin raids would tend to be overshadowed in public memory by uneasy recollections of frustrating impotence in the earlier instances. Some mili- tary officials looked with concern on the implications arising from the public’s new place in the line of fire and its new voice in matters of war.” The influential military writer Capt. B. H. Liddell Hart was dismayed by scenes in Hull, which he personally witnessed. Liddell Hart’s ex- perience undoubtedly did much to shape his widely read 1925 book, Paris, or the Future of War, which argued that homefronts were partic- ularly vulnerable to aerial bombardment. His emotional account of “women, children, babies in arms, spending night after night huddled in sodden fields, shivering under a bitter wintry sky” led him straight to melodramatic extrapolation: “Imagine for a moment London, Man- chester, Birmingham, and a half a dozen other great centres simultane- ously attacked, the business localities and Fleet Street wrecked, White- hall a heap of ruins, the slum districts maddened into the impulse to  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 25  break loose and maraud, the railways cut, factories destroyed. Would not the