gulfed Hamburg in fire made conceivable the idea that he might indeed be closing in on his objective.  No one believed this more than Harris himself. By early November 1943 he believed he was rounding a corner. He sent Churchill a report that included a list of forty-seven German towns, nineteen of which were “virtually destroyed,” nineteen of which were “seriously dam- aged,” and nine of which were “damaged.” Pointing out that most of the damage had been done since March 1943 “when the heavies came into full production and Oboe, H2S and the Pathfinders served to con- centrate the effort,” he went on to propose Berlin and eight other target  230 CHAPTER S$  complexes as the remaining priority targets for his force. Harris asserted confidently, “We have not far to go. But we must get the USAAF to wade in in greater force. ... We can wreck Berlin from end to end if the USAAF will come in on it. It will cost between us 400-500 aircraft. It will cost Germany the war.” He believed, of course, that the Ameri- cans had to eschew their “disastrous diversions” (a clear reference to the Schweinfurt raids). Tellingly, he made no reference to an Allied sec- ond front.  Even though the Casablanca and Pointblank directives had sought to accommodate both Bomber Command and the USAAF, the guidance under which the two organizations were operating was fundamentally incompatible: if Harris was right, then all Allied bombers ought to have been thrown into the attack on German cities. Increasingly, however, members of the British Air Staff were coming to support the American approach. Sir Norman Bottomley, the Deputy Chief of Air Staff, took this view, arguing for a more committed and vigorous attack on the Luftwaffe by both Bomber Command and the USAAE Sir Charles Portal was also supportive of the logic of Pointblank, but he, like Churchill, was in- trigued nonetheless by the promise of a major campaign against Berlin.*  Still flush with expectation, Harris wrote to the Air Ministry on