ion. Indeed, witnesses on the ground rarely could deter- mine the intended targets of invading air attackers.*  Over time, the kaiser loosened the constraints on air attacks, and  22 CHAPTER1  zeppelin pilots ranged widely over London and Britain. Even Admiral Tirpitz became intrigued with the possibility of setting London ablaze. Flown primarily at night, and often inhibited by weather, bombload limits, and army-navy service rivalry in Germany, the raids caused lim- ited physical damage. But they drew British soldiers and resources away from the western front, provoked disruption, and enjoyed some notable early successes in London, Greenwich, and Hull." Indeed, a zeppelin attack set fire to the heart of London on 8 September 1915, and during that month thousands flocked to the Underground stations for shelter. For the RNAS, attempting to defend Britain against air threats was a frustrating task, and the poor early record of the defenders tended to convey the impression that little could be done to keep hostile craft from flying overhead at will. In early 1916, zeppelin raids against a variety of targets in the North, Midlands, and the South only added to RNAS frustration; the Midlands raid of 31 January 1916 highlighted the need for more deliberate attention to all aspects of air defense. Un- der heated public scrutiny, the Admiralty had been seeking to unburden itself of the home defense task for some time. In February 1916, respon- sibility for the defense of British airspace was finally transferred to the RFC, although the navy still had some responsibility for intercepting aircraft over water.”  On 10 August 1916, Commander Peter Strasser, head of the German Naval Airship Division, notified the Commander-in-Chief of the High Seas Fleet (Reinhard Scheer) that “airships offer a certain means of vic- toriously ending the war.”** By the time the message was sent, however, British defenses had improved substantially. Fighter aircraft with greatly improved climb spee