g,” making deri- sive reference, for instance, to the “Schweinfurt fans” who wanted to strike German ball bearings, and the “oily boys” who sought to priori- tize petroleum targets. Harris believed, instead, that cities concentrated everything important to a modern state, and therefore the most efficient way to use bombers in war was to direct them against the main cities of an industrialized enemy. He was certain that if he could destroy vast stretches of Germany’s largest cities—the edifices sustaining and sup- porting modern industrial life—he would surely bring the war to a close on his own terms. This approach was not about short cuts particularly (although Harris did believe and expect that an all-out bombing cam- paign would preclude having to land Anglo-American troops on the continent). It was a form of aerial warfare that was more akin to a Clausewitzian frontal assault on the enemy than a clever Sun-tzu-like attack on a point of particular vulnerability. The destruction of a high enough percentage of the enemy’s infrastructure and urban factory floorspace would eventually and inevitably stop the enemy in its tracks. For Harris, it was as simple and straightforward as that.  The early war years seem to have cemented Harris’s commitment to city bombing. Not only was he well aware of the operational limitations of the RAE, but he was increasingly convinced of the soundness of his instincts about targeting. He would later write, “The Germans again and again missed their chance, as they did in the London blitz that I watched from the roof of the Air Ministry, of setting our cities ablaze by a concentrated attack.” Harris explained that the blitz caused British air planners to appreciate the principle of concentration: “the principle of starting so many fires at the same time that no fire fighting services, however efficiently and quickly they were reinforced . . . could get them under control.” But Harris did not feel that the German attacks on Britain had off