ions in the theater, Washington-based plans for the air war in Japan had been changed to raise the priority of area incendiary missions. As Michael Sherry has pointed out, Hansell’s fail- ure to comprehend fully the situation was understandable: “[T]he vague circumlocutions employed and the incremental way by which new as- sumptions crept into planning obscured the shift.” It was obscured as well, by the unwillingness of Arnold and his staff to admit that they were contemplating a marked change in tactics.*?  In January, Arnold opted for a reshuffling of command in the Far East. He was anxious to consolidate operations in the hands of his more experienced field commander, but he was anxious as well to move Hansell out of the way. When LeMay took over the consolidated B-29 operations he did so with the understanding that he was to produce results as rapidly as possible. In his memoir, Hansell would argue that Arnold had become more impressed by tonnages dropped than by (Iess- knowable) estimates of damage done: “[S]tatistics of tons of bombs dropped and of sorties flown,” he complained, “are easily compiled, seem factual and specific, and are impressive. Photographs of burned out cities also speak for themselves.” While recognizing the many pres- sures that had made Arnold impatient, Hansell nonetheless pointed out that “time had become an obsessive compulsion” in the Washington headquarters of the USAAF. He was right: Washington was in a hurry. Convinced that he had been diverted from the right course, Hansell lamented that “General Arnold did not understand what the Twenty- first Bomber Command had gone through or had achieved.”**  LeMay’s assumption of a new position, consolidating the operations of the Twentieth Air Force, coincided with a strengthening of the B-29  268 CHAPTER S$  force in the Pacific. But LeMay acted on his own initiative to enhance the prospects for planned incendiary attacks. Knowing that his deci- sions would not be censured, he made tactica