FFENSIVE THEORY OF AIR POWER  Trenchard attached great weight to offensive tactics, embracing the con- viction that air war must be guided foremost by a commitment to the “relentless and incessant offensive.” This emphasis fit into his preexist- ing conception of effective behavior in wartime, and it was, in addition, reinforced by his wartime experience and by his subsequent need to explain his actions in the two key posts he held during the most difficult and consequential war his nation had ever fought. In particular, Tren- chard’s emphasis on the offensive helped to justify the heavy casualties that otherwise might have been an embarrassment to him.'  70 CHAPTER 2  Trenchard had spent the formative years of his career in a military environment wholly permeated by the idea that wars are fought and won through an unshakable commitment to the offensive. The forces shaping this environment have been explained in detail by others. What is important here is simply that the theory of the offensive, which suf- fused European military thought at the end of the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth, stemmed from both the interpreta- tion of past war experience and the inherent ability of an offensive pos- ture to serve particular and important institutional needs of military organizations.’ Certainly the Royal Flying Corp’s commitment to offen- sive tactics was influenced by observed French experience at Verdun and cemented by the interpretation of experience at the Somme in 1916. Trenchard’s September 1916 memorandum on offensive tactics was widely cited and reproduced, and it became part of the early canon on air tactics—a guide to action in a new war-fighting medium.’ RAF pa- pers written just after the war consistently stressed the offensive. For instance, an early postwar paper titled “Air Superiority” argued, “An enemy air offensive more intensive than our own must be met by re- newed efforts on our part. Never must a defensive role be forced upon us