ates of that worst case were dire: fifty thousand casualties in a twenty-four hour period. Be- cause senior military advisors to the government did not analyze the bolt from the blue scenario, the issue was left “to the imagination of the ministers.”* With images of a “knock-out blow” casting a shadow over his thinking, Chamberlain opted to settle with Hitler at Munich rather than risk war at that point. Britain was “outdeterred by Ger- many.”2"  In many ways, the RAF’s aggressive declaratory policy had come home to roost. If it had helped preserve RAF autonomy, it had also troubled and confused the other services, and frightened the public, the politicians, and the diplomats. As a deterrent in a time of peace, it prob- ably had much to recommend it. But, because the words had not been backed up by actual capabilities, or even very much systematic thought about how to achieve them, it proved terribly stressful in a time of sudden, serious threat. The 15 September 1938 issue of the Times (Lon- don) referred to the “intolerable sense of impotence and tension” felt throughout the nation. Reflecting back on the period before and during the Munich crisis, Sir John Slessor described the “gnawing dread of national shame and disaster that curdles the tummy and wakes one up  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 127  at three in the morning to lie tossing and wondering what can be done and what will happen if nothing is.”?*  In London, workmen toiled through the nights to dig sheltering trenches in the city’s many parks, to distribute sandbags, and to dim the city’s traffic lights. Air Raid Precautions (ARP) personnel tested sirens, distributed posters, made public announcements at sporting events, and prepared instructional films for the cinemas. Gas mask distribution cen- ters stayed open twelve hours a day, and “laggards” who had not yet picked up their masks were implored to do so via loudspeakers mounted on roving trucks. Airplanes circled overhead, trailing streamers asking volunt