MacDonald’s Na- tional Government backed the Geneva initiative, hoping that the inter- national atmosphere might be right for real progress in placing curbs on war, Disarmament was of considerable and indeed passionate personal interest to both MacDonald and his Foreign Secretary, Sir John Simon.'*  The Foreign Office, the War Office, and the Admiralty all favored banning the bomber. The latter was particularly adamant, noting (with a good deal of interservice animosity), “Only the Air Ministry wants to retain these weapons for use against towns, a method of warfare which is revolting and un-English.”* But Air Ministry members argued vigor- ously against British initiatives regarding bombers, pointing out that no agreement could prevent civil aircraft from being transformed into bombers in wartime, and that banning the bomber would deprive the government of an inexpensive method of controlling colonial territo- ries. Indeed, Arthur Harris, then a wing commander, took an almost conspiratorial view of the Geneva discussions, referring to them as “disarmament plots and counterplots.”" Air Ministry resistance, how- ever, did not prevent British participation in an armaments “truce,” which lasted from 1 November 1931 to 31 March 1933. This pre- cluded work on heavy bombers, and thus had a serious impact on the RAP’s fifty-two-squadron program which was significantly behind its original schedule."”  Writing while the Geneva negotiations were ongoing, P.R.C. Groves, the World War I Director of Flying Operations, opined dryly, “To judge from the nature of the speeches of public men of all denominations, there is no clearer method of gaining popular applause than to an- athematize war and eulogize peace. Unfortunately . . . reference is sel- dom made to the prodigious difficulties which must be overcome before any approximation to the ideal of ‘Law—not War’ is possible.”"* But if the public in Britain was inclined to endorse those who called for peace, their stance was not u