tors of the conservative journal The Spec- tator supported this rationale, chiding other publishers for exaggerating the German menace and encouraging public outcries of vengeance." But there is no question that the government was concerned. Lloyd George had his hands full with labor troubles in 1917. In his memoirs he would later write, “Of all the problems which Governments had to handle during the Great War, the most delicate and probably the most perilous were those arising on the home front . . . the contentment and co-operation of the wage earners was our vital concern, and industrial unrest spelt a graver menace to our endurance and ultimate victory than even the military strength of Germany.”"” The Russian Revolution, and the deployment of four cavalry divisions to the interior of France to break strikes and suppress agitation, hardly lightened the mind of un- easy officials in Britain already deeply worried about the pressures im- posed on the people by Germany's unrestricted submarine warfare. Lloyd George recalled that the government’s “constant anxiety” about how to handle labor was, in those difficult days, “more than ever acute.”"” Sir H. S. Rawlinson, British representative to the Supreme ‘War Council through April 1918, worried that the strained and wearied masses—egged on by “Bolshevist propaganda” —wished to take control of the war from the government and the Parliament. In a speech to the House of Commons on 21 February 1918, Sir William Pearce asserted that in order to avert disaster, the London poor had to be given the impression that everything possible was being done on their behalf."  In this context, the public anger displayed in the aftermath of the 7  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 33  July raid was interpreted as ominous and, perhaps, prerevolutionary; it spurred the government to action. On 11 July the War Cabinet ap- pointed a committee of two, Prime Minister David Lloyd George and the well-respected General Jan Christian Smuts of South Afric