out that RAF strategy as articulated would mean that the civilian life of the enemy would be “endangered to a far greater degree than has ever hitherto been contem-  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 97  plated under International Law.” And Milne stated simply that “it is for His Majesty’s Government to accept or to refuse a doctrine which, put into plain English, amounts to one which advocates unrestricted war- fare against the civil population of one’s enemy.”™  Debate continued among the chiefs, and Trenchard made another ef- fort, in a speech to the Imperial Defence College in October 1928, to convey publicly his perception of the RAF mission. In a nod to the other services, he conceded that the new declared “war aim of the RAF” would be to break down the enemy’s resistance “by attacks on objec- tives calculated to achieve this end and in addition to direct cooperation with the navy and army and in furtherance of the policy of His Maj- esty’s Government at the time.”"’’ The CAS still insisted, however, that instead of engaging in counterforce work (“a waste of air power in a first class war”), the RAF would concentrate on “other objectives more vulnerable and which cannot be so readily defended.” Regarding tar- gets, he equivocated, noting only that “[a]t one time one kind of objec- tive might be the best one for the air forces to attack, while at another the fullest effect might be gained . . . by attacking another kind of ob- jective altogether.”’* His October speech reiterated the importance of “throwing” the enemy on to the defensive. “The issue to be fought out,” Trenchard said, “is which side by maintaining its bombing attacks in the face of losses can continue to lead and keep the other on the defensive.” As in May, the CAS argued that the Air Staff was not “desirous of carrying out indiscriminate bombing attacks on the civil population as such.” Air attacks, he said, “will be directed against mili- tary objectives using that term in the broad sense.”'®  CONFUSED