) revealed a number of im- portant insights. The German civilians who encountered bombers were initially fascinated by them, and most casualties occurred during initial attacks on cities when fascination overtook a willingness to heed pre- cautions. Many casualties sustained might have been avoided if civilians had followed simple procedures like taking proper shelter, In subse- quent raids, citizens generally followed the civil defense regimen estab- lished by local authorities, thus curtailing casualties dramatically. In ten of the largest raids undertaken in July 1918, the Germans suffered no casualties at all. Night raids, due to their inaccuracy, were little more than a nuisance.?”  Greater attention to such conclusions might have tempered somewhat the tone of British pronouncements, or prompted more searching eval- uations. But German conclusions received little notice in Britain. Be- cause of its status as the officially sanctioned Air Ministry final report, A.P. 1225 (3rd ed.) not only bolstered RAF policy, but also provided the main database upon which historians would rely. The official historian of the air war, H. A. Jones, cited the bombing surveys to argue that British long-range raids on German industry and cities had three major effects: (1) a weakening of the national will, particularly in 1918 when the nerves of the people, through hunger and general war weariness,  62 CHAPTER 1  were acutely sensitive; (2) a falling off in the production of essential war materials, partly because the morale of the workers was lowered by the attacks, but chiefly through loss of time as a result of air-raid alarms; and (3) a diversion of fighting squadrons, anti-aircraft guns, and searchlights, and of a great amount of material and labour, to active and passive schemes of defense.” Jones, like the members of the RAF field survey, was impressed by the idea that air raid alarms had caused disruption and impaired production in Germany. Though he admitted that “the effec