of other arms, I feel that air power’s part may fairly be called decisive.”2”  The third volume of the American official history of the air campaign, which offered a summary assessment, acknowledged that the “magni- tude, resilience, and reserve strength of the German economic system” enabled it to hold out against all but the greatest efforts of the Allies. As noted above, its authors particularly celebrated the attainment of air superiority by the Allies, recognizing and appreciating all the ramifica- tions of that achievement. The U.S. official history also drew attention to the contribution of U.S. tactical air forces in aiding the progress of Allied ground forces. They pointed to intelligence errors as a cause of certain mistakes in the air war, but acknowledged the contributions of the oil and transportation campaigns.” Again crediting tactical air forces for helping with the latter, they argued that its impact was pro- found: “It was clear toward the end of the war that the transportation campaign had paralyzed Germany.”?°  The report of the British Bombing Survey Unit also heralded the con- tribution of the transportation plan. This is unsurprising since the prin- cipal author of the report, Solly Zuckerman, had been the plan’s guid- ing force and most determined advocate. As we have seen, though, both Galbraith and the American official historians agreed with his assess- ment. And subsequent studies, too, have not only reinforced but strengthened the argument.’” Like Galbraith, Zuckerman invested the attack on transportation with primary responsibility for collapsing the German economy by the end of the war. BBSU authors argued that perhaps the most telling evidence of the effectiveness of the transport campaign was in the number of trains that were assembled but not moved as a result of loading difficulties and other problems caused by air attacks: in June 1944 the average daily figure was 275; by October 1944 it was 1,000; by March 1945 it was 2,000."  Th