e Chinese a shot in the arm, and, more con- cretely, to persuade the Japanese to pull fighter squadrons out of com- bat theaters and back to the home islands. Though the targets of the “Doolittle raid” were industrial and military facilities, the bombs scat- tered into residential areas. Though the brazen attack was heralded in the American press, and though it caused the Japanese to rethink some parts of their grand strategy and reallocate resources in ways that were ultimately advantageous to the Americans, it made clear the operational difficulties of operating in the Far East: the planes were lost in their attempts to make it back to Chinese (and in one case Siberian) territory. The Japanese government used the raid as an excuse to tighten controls over its population.**  As government officials prioritized aircraft manufacture, planners sought ways to employ bombers in the Far East. New B-29 bombers offered greater range if suitable bases could be found for them. Looking for a solution (and under continued pressure from Roosevelt), the Air Staff fastened on the idea of staging bombers out of India, using ad- vance bases in China for refueling and loading bombs. This plan went forward even though it was understood that, in time, the Marianas Is- lands would offer even better staging opportunities for bomber opera- tions. And new weapons entered the scene as well. In 1943 a cloth streamer attached to the recently developed M-69 incendiary bomb (filled with jellied gasoline, or “napalm”) stabilized it in flight. It proved the most successful incendiary bomb employed in trials (May—September 1943) against the mock “Japanese village” at the Dugway Proving Ground, Utah, which consisted of two dozen houses made with con- struction materials like those used in Japan.?”  By 1943 targeting for the Japanese theater reflected the ongoing pri- oritization of selective bombing of key industries, along with the in- creasing lure of urban incendiary bombing. A March report pre