able attention to the development of pursuit (fighter) tac- tics and aircraft for specialized missions.’ Milling pointed out that day bombardment had increasingly fallen victim to hostile pursuit, and that even night pursuit was beginning to make strong progress by the end of the war. The response, he explained, had been the tactic of formation flying for mutual defense. In addition, the Americans utilized escort fighters that were not tied to the formation but instead sought out en- emy fighters and attacked them as they came up to engage."  Milling’s conceptualization of aerial bombing revealed some British influences, but also the building momentum of indigenous views. His text’s “Bombardment Aviation” section stated that the twenty to one rule (which he attributed to Trenchard) “is undoubtedly a fair approx- imation”—although he did not explain it. He argued that bombing, once it had attained “efficiency,” would then produce an effect “so marked that violent enemy reactions were naturally called forth.” Inev- itably, populated areas of strategic or political importance would de- mand elaborate anti-aircraft defenses. He further asserted “the concus- sion of masses of high explosive is a thing under which human nerves simply cannot stand up.”” Likewise, in 1923 the commander of the USS. 1st Pursuit Group, Maj. Carl A. Spaatz, observed, “The first bomb dropped by an enemy on one of our cities will cause such a clamor for protection that no executive would be strong enough to withstand it.”*  But Milling’s work contained ambivalence (and perhaps confusion) about Trenchardian dictums. On the one hand, he acknowledged the Trenchardian notion of pushing the enemy population on to the defen- sive, and the indirect effects of bombs (on industrial workers); on the other, hand he cautioned, “A strong government will recognize that the enemy’s armed forces are the true objective, and will not permit popular clamor to weaken materially the forces at the front.” Milling iden