ing; it formed a foundation for extrapolation, speculation, and zealous advocacy.’ But the perception and interpretation of the ex- perience itself had been shaped by expectation.  AERIAL BOMBING AND PUBLIC EXPECTATION,  The First World War commenced only eleven years after the Wright Brothers made their first successful but brief ascent over the windy dunes of Kitty Hawk, North Carolina. The airplanes of 1914 were frail machines constructed mainly of wood, cloth, and wire; their capabilities were speculative at best. Military experts had varying expectations for these craft, but even the most conservative understood that an aerial perspective would facilitate observation and reconnaissance. Indeed, the aerial perspective quickly proved so valuable that it was aggressively sought and fought for, prompting the development of purpose-built fighter aircraft. Throughout the war, increasingly capable fighters sought control of the air to allow other aircraft to carry out reconnais- sance work, including trench mapping and artillery spotting. Other tac- tical missions evolved, such as contact patrol (for tracking ground troops), close air support, and battlefield interdiction bombing.  The role aircraft might play beyond the battlefield had long been the  12 CHAPTER1  subject of intense anticipation.* For centuries before flying machines were invented, they were envisioned as platforms for dropping explo- sives onto the vulnerable earth. From the beginning, this speculation imagined bombers not only as agents of physical destruction, but also of psychological shock and social disruption; the earliest conceptions of strategic bombing assumed it would impair both the enemy’s capacity and will to fight. Much of this speculation came from futurist writers, inventors, and visionaries of various sorts.’ In 1670, Jesuit monk Fran- cesco Lana produced an important treatise with two chapters on the “Aerial Ship.” While he believed his theoretical machine to be viable, he warned th