h as he would have liked. Moreover, Harris continued to believe that Bomber Command was under siege from the “diversion- ists” and “panacea mongers.” In a pointed letter to Deputy Chief of Air Staff Sir Norman Bottomley at the end of the year, he noted sar- castically that the “panacea mongers” must have been planted by the enemy in a deliberate attempt to insure that only the minimum amount of damage be caused to Germany through aerial bombardment." Deter- mined that the way to victory was through relentless attacks on cities, Harris resisted any efforts to divert his bombers from this mission. And he agitated constantly for better resources and increased respect for Bomber Command’s achievements.’* He felt that those who criticized the bomber offensive for not doing enough had no idea of how thin bomber assets had been spread, in large part due to the demands of the battle of the Atlantic. The naval use of air power, he complained, con- sisted of “picking at the fringes of enemy power, of waiting for oppor- tunities that may never occur ... and of looking for needles in hay- stacks.”””  Not all of his bitterness was without foundation. In early 1943, Bomber Command was enjoined to attack submarine pens in a cam- paign that ultimately aided the navy very little, due to the great diffi- culty of damaging the structures. But many of Harris’s complaints about the navy were parochial, since naval-oriented aviation had made crucial contributions to Allied survival."* Virtually the whole of the Western war effort—including Bomber Command’s own fuel supply— depended on sea lines of communication. Certainly Harris was obli- gated to prioritize and fight for the interests of the strategic air offen- sive, but his vigorous protests against “diversions” were often narrow in outlook and caused no end of headaches for his colleagues and supe- riors. He was too quick to assume that those who prioritized naval targets were short-sighted or insufficiently “air-minded.” In August 1