om combining forces against him. He was quite prepared to make promises that served his short-term interests.  82 CHAPTER 2  And he felt he had time: the armistice had removed any serious threat to Britain for the foreseeable future. In July, Trenchard stated that he did not think a British strategic bombing force would have to operate in Europe for twenty or thirty years.”  In August 1919, Lloyd George’s cabinet adopted what John Ferris has called “strategic axioms” to guide service planning and expenditure: (1) that there would be no war for the next five to ten years, and the chief concern would be policing colonial areas; (2) that service strengths simi- lar to those of 1914 (now including the RAF) would meet those needs; and (3) that scientific weapons should, to the greatest extent possible, replace manpower. Though these were never entirely accepted by the services—and though the Treasury failed to gain any real control over the military planning in the first few years after the war—they nonethe- less established parameters within which service debates and struggles were conducted.*? Outmaneuvering the army, Trenchard argued that the RAF could offer substantial economies in colonial policing by substitut- ing aircraft for soldiers and horses (and all their required supplies). Re- lying on the concept of “air control,” he sought to secure the RAF’s independent status by making the service useful in the near term. Air control was, very simply, using aircraft to threaten, intimidate, and thereby “control” native populations in British colonial territories. Trenchard used RAF assets, too, in the ongoing struggle against Brit- ain’s tenacious enemy, the so-called “Mad Mullah” of Somaliland, and took the opportunity to fulfill Churchill’s desire for cost-effective polic- ing in Iraq and Palestine. The army resented the encroachment, and both the army and navy condemned as immoral the aerial bombing of tribal peoples. The RAF countered that bombing was no more indis