ra-based intelligence (derived from breaking en- emy codes) indicating that the Germans were facing critical shortages.’ On 9 July, for instance, a deciphered message from Luftwaffe chief Re- ichsmarschall Hermann Géring argued that “[t]he deep inroads made into the supply of aircraft fuel demand the most stringent reduction in flying. Drastic economy is absolutely essential.” Indeed, the Germans were so concerned about their oil situation that they transferred large numbers of anti-aircraft guns from their cities to the synthetic oil plants (SOPS).'* Spaatz thus tried to balance his obligations so as to direct as  238 CHAPTER S$  much effort as possible toward oil. In June and July, despite suffering heavy losses to flak, USSTAF bombers took a serious toll on Germany’s diminishing oil supply." In August and early September the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces continued to divide their resources between sup- porting the ground campaign, attacking V-weapons sites, and attacking strategic targets, mainly oil. The Eighth flew seven missions against Ger- man oil, and the Fifteenth flew thirteen missions against German and Balkan oil.'°*  For the American bomber forces, good results against oil facilities demanded visual conditions. But not all clear days could be dedicated to this end, since bomber crews were called on repeatedly to aid in ground operations, including close support for troops in the field. Though these tactical operations could be effective, they did not always live up to expectations. In addition, they entailed serious risks due to the chal- lenges of controlling a large and inherently inaccurate force. The heavy bomber missions flown in support of Lt. Gen. Omar Bradley’s Opera- tion Cobra in late July 1944, for instance, were a mixed blessing. Though they aided the Allied advance, they killed over one hundred American troops and wounded hundreds more.” The inability of Allied supply lines to keep pace with the advance of ground troops caused the divers