aircraft industry itself—a set of targets known to Air Intelligence, and believed to be reasonably identi- fiable. The Commander-in-Chief of Bomber Command, Sir Edgar Ludlow- Hewitt, thought it might be possible to mitigate the German offensive somewhat by striking directly at the Luftwaffe, but he worried deeply about the costs of such an offensive if undertaken while his force re- mained very weak." It would be necessary, as well, for the RAF to assist the army in repulsing a German offensive through the Low Countries and France, an outcome also anticipated by the Joint Planners and Chiefs of Staff. This scenario generated W.A.4, the attack on German military rail, canal, and road communications. Again, though, the Air Staff and Bomber Command lacked enthusiasm: neither was much in- terested in seeing the bulk of the bombing force used to support armies in the field. Moreover, Air Staff views differed from General Staff views regarding optimum aerial tactics for slowing a land advance."  Of the prioritized alternatives, the Air Ministry clearly favored W.A.5: direct attacks on German industry, to be commenced once a full- scale air war had begun. The Air Targets Sub-Committee offered up a number of targets considered both feasible and vulnerable to air bom- bardment, including the German electric power grid; the canal locks and aqueducts connecting the Ruhr to northern Germany; coking sta- tions; and repair depots and workshops of the main railway lines. By 1 September 1939, W.A.5 had evolved into three sub-plans: W.A.5(a) the attack on German war industry; W.A.5(b) the attack on the Ruhr (and its military lines of communication in Western Germany); and W.A.5(c) the attack on Germany’s oil resources.” Planners favored quick, focused strikes against Germany’s “weakest link”: oil, plus concentrated attacks in the Ruhr to inflict both material and moral damage. They warned, “The longer we postpone the attack of oil after the ‘gloves are off’ and serious operations be