s contained in Harris’s “Blue Books.”  While two different approaches to targeting were now clearly on the  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 265  table, nothing had as yet been settled. The groundwork for urban incen- diary attacks had been established, but the AAF’s instinct for selective targeting continued to coexist with it. In November 1943 a COA target- ing list prioritized shipping, aircraft, steel, and urban areas. And target- ing lists produced by other agencies in 1944 continued this pattern. An updated COA list (of June) listed in order: aircraft, coke, oil, elec- tronics, bearings, urban areas, and shipping. It noted that urban areas could be attacked using blind bombing methods. In the same month, the COA established the Joint Incendiary Committee, to focus on the possibilities of destroying six important urban areas on the island of Honshu. In September its subcommittee recommended undertaking such a campaign with massive force in a concentrated time frame. Plan- ners estimated 560,000 casualties. In October 1944 the National De- fense Research Committee suggested that just over nine thousand tons of incendiary bombs could burn out twenty-two Japanese cities. This approach, the authors maintained, held the prospect of shortening the war and saving lives. They edged around the ethical questions by assert- ing simply that they would have to be settled at higher levels.**  When bombing operations began in the Pacific theater, they slammed immediately into the daunting logistical and operational difficulties of functioning over enormous distances and in difficult conditions.” In the summer of 1944 the Twentieth Bomber Command began operations in the China-Burma-India theater. Its B-29s had reached Karachi via Gan- der, Newfoundland, Marrakech, and Cairo. But the Twentieth, com- manded by Gen. Kenneth Wolfe, faced a painfully slow build-up of fuel, ordnance, and supplies, due to the formidable problems of bringing it in by air “over the hump” of the Himalayas. (To