944-45 faded into spring, it became ever clearer that the Third Reich finally was in the throes of collapse. Despite admitting that the “operational considerations which have in the past  260 CHAPTER S$  necessitated area attacks still exist,” the British Joint Chiefs of Staff argued in early April that “at this advanced stage of the war no great or immediate additional advantage can be expected from the attack of the remaining industrial centres of Germany.” (At a practical level, the Al- lies were now beginning to concern themselves, too, with reconstruc- tion.) While recognizing that area bombing might still be required to overcome remaining pockets of German resistance—and thus no direc- tive should exclude it—they argued that “area bombing designed solely with the object of destroying or disorganizing industrial areas should be discontinued.” '”*  Harris felt this was one more denial of his opportunity to deliver Germany a coup de grace. Since he had become so deeply invested in the area campaign—dedicating all his efforts for nearly three years to prosecuting it ever more efficiently—it was very difficult for him to change course. In the waning months of the war he felt that the Air Staff had denied him not only the opportunity to bring his efforts to a crescendo, but also the credit that would have accompanied such an achievement. In January 1945, long after his battle of Berlin had failed, Harris still insisted that attacking the remaining major cities in Ger- many, and “bringing a great weight to bear on Berlin” would be “the end” of the Third Reich. “It is for this reason,” he told Portal, “that I am personally so upset at this sudden change of horses in mid-stream after the three years of tremendous effort we have put into the alterna- tive policy.”  On 19 April the Combined Chiefs of Staff recommended a new bombing directive, which came into effect formally on 5 May. It spe- cified that the main mission of the strategic air forces would be to pro- vide d