e frequency and stridency of their questions about Bomber Command. Harris felt that the Allied reaction to Dresden was based on the same kind of misplaced sentimentality that had caused the Air Staff to try to prettify the language used to describe strategic bombing to the public. At the Allied air commanders’ confer- ence of 1 March 1945, Harris had reiterated his unflinching commit- ment to area bombing. Rather than the Dresden raid, he singled out a Bomber Command attack on Pforzheim, explaining with satisfaction that the whole town had been burned out, and that Bomber Command “had now destroyed 63 German cities in this fashion.” He noted with more than a hint of sarcasm that this kind of raid, “popularly known as a deliberate terror attack” had “disputed value in certain quarters.”  At this juncture Harris also was deeply concerned that the strategic air offensive was not receiving appropriate credit for the work it had done in clearing a path for advancing Allied armies, and that artillery and tactical air forces were instead reaping an unearned reward in the press. He was so troubled by this that he wrote directly to Eisenhower, asking him to “see to it that as the armies advance, credit is given to us for our efforts, and that what we have achieved is neither ignored by army correspondents nor still less credited solely to the magnificent ef- forts of the ground forces.”"* All throughout the war Harris felt that Bomber Command was shortchanged in recognition compared to the  258 CHAPTER S$  army and navy. This was a matter of perspective, of course: there was no dearth of press coverage of Bomber Command’s activities in wartime British newspapers. But Harris’s perception that his crews were denied press attention and that the Air Ministry did nothing to change the situation helped fuel the sense of alienation and indeed persecution he felt by the end of the war."  In the meantime, the Americans were in the midst of their own tem- pest. On 17 February an Assoc