ity.”’” As the results became known in Britain, questions were raised about the means and ends of the strategic bombing campaign. Dresden contained important railway lines and some industry, but it was cer- tainly not one of Germany’s foremost industrial cities. Educated Britons knew it mainly for its cultural life and its fine examples of Baroque architecture. Was the raid, which took such a heavy toll on noncomba- tants, really warranted, especially at what was clearly a late stage in the war?  Churchill, who always had one eye toward posterity, was now be- coming uneasy with the “fury” of the strategic air campaign. In a pointed minute to the Chiefs of Staff, on 28 March, he argued that there was no longer very much to be gained by continued heavy bomb- ing, and that the time had come for a review of the “question of bomb- ing of German cities simply for the sake of increasing the terror.” After stating that “the destruction of Dresden remains a serious query against the conduct of Allied bombing,” he insisted there was a need for “more precise concentration on military objectives ... rather than on mere acts of terror and wonton destruction, however impressive.”'”*  Portal, unwilling to accept the prime minister’s sanctimonious turn- about, took the bold step of demanding that the statement (which the British official historians described as “among the least felicitous of the prime minister’s long series of wartime minutes”) be withdrawn and replaced by a version the Air Staff could more readily stomach. The CAS was not prepared to allow Churchill to stand in harsh after-the- fact judgment of a raid he had urged and was fully informed of ahead of time. The prime minister’s revised minute of 1 April 1945 concluded, “We must see to it that our attacks do not do more harm to ourselves in the long run than they do to the enemy’s immediate war effort.”"” In a telegram to Truman of 14 April, Churchill argued that “the war situation has now turned so much in our favour