ver. His essay called “The Future Role of American Bombardment Aviation,” written some months after he had completed his November “Plan,” in- corporated significant segments of Trenchard’s November 1917 paper on “Long Distance Bombing.”**° Gorrell adopted Trenchard’s definition of long-distance bombing, explaining that its basic purpose was to weaken the power of the enemy directly (“through the infliction of damage on his industrial, railway, and military centers”), and indirectly (“by producing discontent and alarm among the industrial popula- tion”). Owing a debt to his British colleagues, Gorrell infused Ameri- can air power thought with Tiverton’s emphasis on analytical planning and systematic implementation, as well as Trenchard’s emphasis on the moral effect of bombing. The latter acted as a multiplier. As George K. Williams has pointed out, “Moral effect diminished uncertainty by making every bomb dropped on enemy soil count, thus neatly compli- menting the direct, destructive effects of bombs that in fact hit what one was aiming at.”*?  In the end, Gorrell’s plan was never implemented. Had production measured up and the war continued into 1919, American momentum toward strategic bombing very likely would have increased. Indeed, Trenchard showed a particular interest in having the Americans join the work of his Independent Force.” But ambivalent attitudes about strate- gic bombing existed within the U.S. military hierarchy in 1918. Gor- rell’s tenure as head of the Strategical Section, Zone of Advance was brief; by February1918 he had been transferred to the Operations Sec- tion (G-3) of the General Staff.“* Though in his new position he contin- ued to work on bombing, he was more firmly under the thumb of the army. Over the summer, the army balked at shifting Air Service priori- ties to favor independent operations. Like Foch, General Pershing was reluctant to divert resources away from the battlefield to underwrite a  56 CHAPTER 1  proposition so uncertain