he strat- egy of the Pacific.”** Such optimistic assessments rested in part on the idea that the Japanese were intensely afraid of aerial bombing, and that they would be prone to panic or collapse in the face of it. In an ulti- mately vain effort to deter the Japanese, Gen. George Marshall in mid- November threatened to “set the paper cities of Japan on fire.” But the comment was more than simply a deterrent threat: Marshall knew that incendiary weapons, which had limited use against military targets, were being shipped to the Philippines, and that U.S. airmen were pre- paring plans for an aerial offensive against Japan. The Americans hoped to overcome the long distances in the Pacific by having Luzon-based bombers land in the Soviet Union once they had bombed their Japanese objectives. General Marshall made vigorous though ultimately futile ef- forts to win Soviet permission for the plan.” In the meantime, popular American journals speculated about U.S. incendiary attacks on Tokyo. By February 1942 the U.S. Air Staff had identified areas of Tokyo par- ticularly vulnerable to fire attack.”  Once the war was underway, planning for the air campaign against Japan went on in several different circles, including the Air Staff and the Committee of Operations Analysts (COA). President Roosevelt, fearing that the Pacific war might be an intolerably protracted affair, urged a shortcut, again suggesting the possibility of using Siberian airfields in a  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 263  bid to attack “the heart of Japan.””” Earlier he had endorsed another  route to the same end. On 18 April 1942, sixteen B-25 bombers had departed the carrier Hornet to wage an aerial assault on Tokyo. Led by Gen. James Doolittle, the raid was intended to deliver a blow to Japa- nese morale, to give the Chinese a shot in the arm, and, more con- cretely, to persuade the Japanese to pull fighter squadrons out of com- bat theaters and back to the home islands. Though the targets of the “Doolittle raid