y the winter of 1944-45 they targeted just about everything they could think of, hoping to hit upon some means of affecting enemy be- havior, directly or indirectly. While claiming adherence to “precision” bombing of industrial targets, they often engaged in area attacks on cities.  In Europe, strategic bombing did not prove the case of its most out- spoken advocates. Harris would claim that it might have, had he been  CONCLUSION 293  left alone to prosecute the air war as he saw fit. Others, albeit in more moderate tones, would sometimes appropriate his argument. The ensu- ing struggle over what bombing had or had not achieved in Europe was political, partisan, and subjective. The problem was exacerbated by the hushed and stifled debate in Britain and by the unwieldy and often in- ternally inconsistent nature of the United States Strategic Bombing Sur- vey. In the Far East the debate was just as acrimonious, and was ob- scured by the use of atomic bombs; indeed, the new weapon looked so different and so revolutionary as to make discussions about mere “con- ventional” bombing seem outdated and obsolete. Under the circum- stances, both advocates and critics of bombing would continue to argue their positions vigorously.  At the end of the war, American airmen found themselves in a posi- tion similar to the one the British had faced in 1919: battling for auton- omy. Clearly the Americans could make their argument on the basis of much fuller experience than could the British at the end of World War I, but the often acrimonious post-World War II debate had parallels with the earlier British experience—and similar effects. In particular, it en- couraged an assertive tone in USAAF (later USAF) rhetoric that encour- aged overclaiming. Once again, airmen emphasized the strategic bomb- ing mission, stressing it as the justification for service autonomy and downplaying other more modest and cooperative roles for aircraft, however important they might be. This rhetoric was only