fense effort. Churchill endured his own crisis of doubt about Bomber Command, but he was not prepared to reallocate radically British defense resources in the midst of the war.  Under pressure to bring greater results despite persistent operational shortcomings, air planners turned their attention to the “area bombing” of German cities; by late 1941 Bomber Command was shifting the bulk of its effort in this direction. When Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Harris took up the reigns of the force in late February 1942, he was under instructions to use his force to attack the housing of urban workers in order to undermine their productivity and morale. Harris, convinced that city bombing was unquestionably the best and most efficient course for Bomber Command to pursue, assumed his new job with single- minded determination to prove his point. Indeed, he would remain te- naciously committed to city bombing throughout the remainder of the war, well after most of his colleagues had lost faith in it and shifted their attention to other targets. As was true in the First World War, the British bomber offensive was shaped in part by ongoing tensions be- tween the field commander and the Air Ministry. Harris’s views on bombing, and the conflicts they triggered with his colleagues, formed an important part of the history of Britain’s strategic air war.  Across the Atlantic the Americans watched, waited, and finally began a military expansion program of their own. But the freeing up of funds did not solve problems of scale or banish persistent cognitive hurdles. Despite their vast resource base, the Americans would be plagued with the inevitable organizational and production problems of rapid rearma- ment in a highly demanding and dynamic environment. The Air Corps, soon to become the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF), would enter into war with limited numbers of aircraft and an untested faith that high altitude, “precision” daylight bombers would be able to reach their targets u