mand’s attacks on oil “exceeded my expectations and frustrated the German hopes.”*° Harris argued that though the demands of the Nor- mandy campaign gave German cities a “virtual respite from bombing” for “nearly half a year,” he resumed the all-important campaign against cities in September 1944, achieving record tonnages in October. To sup- port his case and his wartime decisions, Harris highlighted assessments made by Bomber Command’s own analysts and commentary derived from postwar interrogations of Albert Speer. In his conclusions he main- tained that the “enemy’s sinews of War were to be found in his indus- trial cities.” Harris added, “German propaganda tried very hard to con-  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 283  vince us that German war industry was wholly dispersed, or was under- ground, or concealed in forests, or indeed was anywhere except where one would expect to find it—in the great industrial cities.”  The years after the war saw ongoing debates about the history and record of strategic bombing. In his 1947 book, Bombing and Strategy: The Fallacy of Total War, Adm. Sir Gerald Dickens called on his naval instincts to caste doubt upon the entire concept of strategic bombing. M4aj.-Gen. J.EC. Fuller implicated strategic bombing in an overall de- cline in the civility of war, which he linked to the demise of aristocracy and the effect of general conscription. Marshall Andrews’ 1949 Disaster Through Air Power and David Divine’s The Broken Wing also rebuked arguments supporting strategic bombing. In 1948 noted British scientist P.M.S. (Patrick) Blackett, writing about the broader consequences of nuclear war, launched his own critique of strategic bombing on grounds of both efficacy and morality.2”  A different perspective on the issue was offered by Lord Tedder when he delivered the Lees Knowles Lectures at Cambridge University in 1947 on the topic: “Air Power in War.” Arguing that air power— though “interlocked with sea and land power”—was essential in World Wa