d out that the public had not panicked during or after the raids.“ But anger was thick in the air. On 15 June, the Daily Mail published photographs of the child victims of the first raid, along with a “Reprisal Map” of German towns within 150 miles of the front lines.’’ Well-attended public meetings at Tower Hill and the London Opera House debated air defense and air reprisals. The Times described the latter as “crowded and enthusiastic.” A resolution was passed “amid great cheering,” which called on the government to undertake air reprisals on German cities.’ Letters to the editor demanded air defense and reprisals. Most contended that the government must warn citizens of impending air raids and carry out retaliatory efforts. Some writers were careful to argue, however, that any steps taken against the Ger- mans ought not to diminish the critical air effort on the western front and thus “play into the German hands”; they believed that German strategic attacks had been deliberately designed to draw British re- sources away from the front lines.”  The raid of 7 July caused a more dramatic, sustained reaction in the press. In an outpouring of description, commentary, and debate that  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 31  continued for days, the pages of the Times were full of the air raid. Writers describing the raid again pointed out (and took pride in) the cool, calm reaction of Londoners. One article in the Times argued, “An extraordinary indication of the futility of the raid as a demonstration of frightfulness’ was the rapidity with which people everywhere settled down to their business again once the last of the raiders had disap- peared.” Indeed, the language used to describe the attack, which in- cluded such terms as “thrilling” and “magnificent” revealed that many had perceived the raid as a spectacle second to none.” In the United States, the Literary Digest cited British sources claiming that, “in the majority of our fellows we believe the evidence before us shows d