aft, the larger carrying capacity and range, and the heavier bombs available.”  After reading Trenchard’s memorandum, both the Chief of the Impe- rial General Staff (Milne) and the Chief of the Naval Staff (Madden) expressed serious reservations on several key points. Neither was con- vinced that an air force could simply pass over the enemy army and navy and achieve its aim through a direct attack on the enemy’s vital centers. Madden bluntly observed that in Trenchard’s paper it “is taken for granted that direct air attack on the centres of production, transpor- tation and communication must succeed in paralysing the life and effort of the community and therefore of winning the war.” But, the Naval Chief argued, “No evidence has so far been produced that such bomb-  96 CHAPTER 2  ing in the face of counter attack will have such a result.” Milne likewise argued that in World War I “no military concentration either by the Germans or by the Allies was ever brought to a standstill by air action.” Both Milne and Madden suggested that instead of undermining enemy morale, air attacks might have the effect of stiffening it. Milne also pointed out that developments in “counter air action” might undermine Britain’s all-out aerial offensive, and he argued that the RAF’s air strat- egy, in any event, had the effect of placing Britain in a disadvantageous position due to the geographical vulnerability of London.”  Milne and Madden raised further objections to Trenchard’s memo- randum on ethical grounds; to them, Trenchard’s articulated policy sounded like advocacy of indiscriminate attacks on civilians. In fact, the issue of targeting would pose a chronic dilemma for the RAF. The problem—as the army and navy critics of RAF policy understood—was that most industry was located in or very near cities, and it was not clear where “dislocation” would slide into terrorization. The issue was obscured by international legal difficulties over what constituted a “mil- itary target” and wh