ns had recently developed a newer, larger, more powerful bomber; any de- lay in British plans for an air offensive would give the initiative to the enemy. Arguing that parts of London were in danger of being bombed flat, he called for the construction of 2,000 big bombers. Lloyd George saw the memorandum, and it was quickly printed up and distributed to the full War Cabinet. The latter recommended that arrangements be made for the creation of an Air Ministry and for the commencement of long-range bombing operations." The Air Force Constitution Bill passed in November 1917, and in January 1918 an Air Council was constituted and charged with overseeing the administration of the new “Royal Air Force” (RAF), which came into existence officially on 1 April 1918."  In the meantime, the Germans prosecuted their plan to invoke panic and confusion through the use of newly developed ten-pound incendi- ary bombs. Large numbers of these could be dropped from small num- bers of aircraft; the effect, the Germans hoped, might be a great confla- gration in the heart of the city. This did not come to pass. In early December the Germans expressed their disappointment with the incen- diaries. Even the large raid of 18 December 1917, which set several fires in the city, caused a limited damage and casualty toll—the latter includ- ing twelve dead and sixty-six wounded.” The British government, how- ever, concerned itself with the prospect of war-weariness, especially since the conflict had been so unexpectedly long and costly. Debates were rekindled over the adequacy of British defenses, alerts, and public safety. These questions seemed even more urgent following the night of 28 January 1918, when twenty-eight casualties, including fourteen dead, resulted from the crush of shelter-seeking crowds, and when a direct hit on the Odhams Printing Works (doubling as an air raid shelter) claimed eighty-five severely injured and thirty-eight dead. The following night the Germans flew R-planes, w