during operations against revolutionary leader Pancho Villa. The frail planes could not cope with the weather and the demands of active field service; within six weeks all had either crashed or become unus- able.*” This outcome exposed the sorry state of American military avia- tion and helped prompt the National Security Act of 1916, which pro- vided for “aero squadrons” to be developed as needed, but which kept most aviation firmly bound to ground troops.”  Between 1914 and 1917, aviation underwent rapid evolution among the belligerent powers, but the United States did not benefit much from this progress; poor liaison left the United States isolated and lacking  50 CHAPTER 1  knowledge about air warfare. As historian I. B. Holley has pointed out, “Doctrine in the Signal Corps was the product of two factors: extremely limited operational experience with a handful of training aircraft and domestic interpretations of the scanty reports of military attachés.”** ‘When the United States went to war in 1917, its Aviation Section con- sisted of 130 officers, and just over 1,000 enlisted men. Of approx- imately 200 aircraft, none was suitable for combat service, even recon- naissance. There was no overall plan for utilizing aircraft in the war.” Nonetheless, the Americans quickly pledged themselves to an ambitious plan suggested in May 1917 by French Premier Alexandre Ribot. In a burst of unfounded optimism, the Joint Army and Navy Technical Air- craft Board translated the Ribot recommendations into a plan calling for the production of 12,000 aircraft for service in France (in 1918), as. well as 5,000 training planes and 24,000 engines. Funding for the plan was included in the $640 million appropriated by Congress (and signed by President Woodrow Wilson in July 1917) for an expansion of the Aviation Section.” The naive scheme failed to anticipate the time and effort required to raise American industry to such unprecedented levels of output. But it touched a chord in the Am