ut not moved as a result of loading difficulties and other problems caused by air attacks: in June 1944 the average daily figure was 275; by October 1944 it was 1,000; by March 1945 it was 2,000."  The BBSU report argued against the efficacy of city bombing, partic-  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 281  ularly for moral effect but also as a means of reducing industrial pro- duction. The BBSU final report concluded, “In so far as the offensive against German towns was designed to break the morale of the German. civilian population, it clearly failed. Far from lowering essential war production, it also failed to stem a remarkable increase in the output of armaments.” Later in the report the authors argued that “area attacks against German cities could not have been responsible for more than a very small part of the fall which actually had occurred in German pro- duction by the spring of 1945.” The British official historians were un- impressed with area bombing, which, they argued, had by the end of the war shown itself to be an “uneconomic” and “largely self-defeating policy.”?”  The report of the BBSU was initially classified, and—until very re- cently—was only available in special repositories such as London’s Pub- lic Record Office. Likewise, Sir Arthur Harris’s official dispatch on his three and a half years at the helm of Bomber Command was not made public; it became widely available only in 1995.7” Since the USSBS fo- cused on American efforts, it downplayed the role of Bomber Com- mand in the war generally. And the conclusions of the USSBS were often harsh in their attitude to the British contribution, reflecting the Ameri- cans’ ongoing desire to distance themselves from the taint of area bombing in Europe, and to use British bombing as a foil against which to argue the effectiveness and “precision” of their own campaign. In- deed, the bias was so evident that the American official historians felt compelled to apologize for it in 1951, writing, “the deprecating ton