aided the Allied advance, they killed over one hundred American troops and wounded hundreds more.” The inability of Allied supply lines to keep pace with the advance of ground troops caused the diversion of an entire bomber combat wing (approximately 200 B-24s) to the ferrying of supplies to forward troops. And the preparation for and execution of Operation Market Garden in September placed serious demands on Allied strategic bombers: under dangerous and ultimately costly conditions, they shuttled supplies forward for the paratroops and engaged in close support operations. General Doolittle estimated that Market Garden cost the Allies four major and two minor heavy bomber missions in September."  In the meantime, the attempt on Hitler’s life in July had prompted the USSTAF director of intelligence to note that “there has been widespread unrest within the German armed services.” Though it was hard to as- sess what this meant, it at least suggested that the Reich might be edg- ing toward some sort of crisis. This development, along with the success of the attack on oil and the rapid progress of troops immediately fol- lowing the Normandy breakout, inspired the hope—among some at least—that victory in Europe might be near at hand and that a collapse of German morale might be effected and put to use in the war’s end- game. Indeed, optimism about the course of the war already had helped spur a joint venture between the Air Staff, USSTAF, the Ministry of Economic Warfare, and the Foreign Office, resulting in a plan called Thunderclap, which envisioned a massive attack (by both American and British strategic bombers) on German morale at a crucial moment."”  Portal stressed that timing was critical: the raid would be undertaken  COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE 239  when the Allies sensed Germany might be particularly vulnerable psy- chologically. This sense of vulnerability would be influenced by the state of the German political, economic, and military situation. Thunderclap was