cross the board. But the slide was reversed a year later when (despite exercise rules tilted against fighters, and bombers flying at twice the altitude of earlier exercises) 79 percent of the 110 raids flown were intercepted, and 56 percent of them by supe- rior numbers.” While these exercises gave crucial practice to air defense personnel who later put it to good effect, they did not—as one might have expected—force a reevaluation of the bomber advocates’ position. Bomber advocates found a range of ways to see what they wanted to see, and to avoid seeing what contradicted their views. As John Ferris has pointed out, “They adopted the future conditional tense about ma- terial developments, assuming that marginal increases in the speed of altitude of bombers would cripple air defence, while ignoring the possi- bility that other developments could bolster it. The errors were multi- plied by the erroneous assumption that just a few raids would wreck an enemy’s morale and production.”"”  Of the dominant RAF view in the interwar years, Sir John Slessor later wrote, “Our belief in the bomber, in fact, was intuitive—a matter of faith.”" This faith came partly from prevailing assumptions about societal and economic vulnerability, partly from the need to preserve a lever—in the form of the strategic air offensive—in interservice wars, and partly from cultural norms inside the service. Though formally pro- fessionalized, the military services in interwar Britain continued to be pervaded by a spirit of traditional amateurism.” While by no means unique to the RAF at the time, this attitude told heavily on a service that was born of technology, and whose future rested on developments in that realm." Slessor summed it up well when he confessed in his memoir the main difference between soldiering in the 1950s and soldier- ing in the interwar years: “[T]he amateur status has disappeared, and  92 CHAPTER 2  today it is no longer an agreeable part-time occupation for a gentleman, but