ment would set in among peoples who had been falsely promised a “War to End All Wars” and a “Home Fit for Heroes.” Embittered ex-serviceman figured prominently in most of these stories.'*  The earliest deliberations of the Air Raid Precautions (ARP) Commit- tee (1924-25), reflected this pervasive level of concern.” Even though the head of the committee (Sir John Anderson) was well known for his unflappability and objectivity, the report he oversaw incorporated (from Air Ministry estimates) an assessment that a future war might bring some 350 tons of bombs down on London in the first forty-eight hours, and 100 tons per day thereafter for a month. The Committee—again following the lead of the Air Ministry—put only limited faith in de- fense; it recommended partial evacuation of the city so as to minimize panic, chaos, and confusion. Conversations with Trenchard led commit- tee members to conclude, pessimistically, that the only course open to them was to continue their investigations “with a view to mitigating, so far as possible, the evils attendant upon aerial bombardment.” Regard- ing public morale, they wrote, “It has been borne upon us that in the  106 CHAPTER 2  next war it may well be that the nation whose people can endure aerial bombardment the longer and with greater stoicism will ultimately prove victorious.” '*"  In 1926, the futurist novel 1944 envisioned a massive air attack against London with lethal gas. Its author, the second Earl of Halsbury— formerly Viscount Tiverton of the World War I Air Staff—had main- tained an interest in air warfare despite returning to his civilian work as a lawyer. After the war he grew convinced that the new gas weapons becoming available would not require the specialized equipment and training needed for high explosive and incendiary bombs. His motive in writing the book was to bring the danger to the attention of the public, and to set up the conditions that might lead to international abolition of chemical weapons." Suc