d and [George] Marshall are in the position of having expended, or rather accepted, vast sums of money for the production of Forces which exist only on paper or in their own rather muddled minds. They have literally nothing to show for it, and are covering up in self-defence lest their bluff be called. In that situation to demand from them any substantial part of the little that is being produced is in effect like asking them for blood in a bucket.” In the same skeptical vein he bet Freeman that if the Americans came into the war short of being “kicked in,” then he would eat “a pink elephant, trunk, tail, and toenails—and raw at that.” Harris did suggest, however, that if the war were to go on long enough, unlimited American resources and manpower would make up in “smoth- ering effect” what they lacked in careful implementation.’  In addition to expanding their infrastructure for wartime aircraft pro- duction, the Americans began to formulate a detailed strategy for em- ploying their own air power. Unsurprisingly, the ideas that had been developed by those at the Air Corps Tactical School now came into prominence. As the airmen saw it, their long battle for recognition, val- idation, and greater autonomy was finally yielding fruit. Like the Brit- ish, American bomber advocates held fast to their ideas: nothing in the European air war to date had shaken ACTS faith in the potential of independent strategic air operations. Carl A. Spaatz, then a colonel, was sent to Britain in 1940 to observe the RAF at close hand. He came back with all of his existing views intact. Despite British and German experi- ence, he remained convinced that groups of self-defending bombers could operate without the aid of escorts, and that “precision” attacks of selected targets would be necessary for maximum results. His time in Britain did convince Spaatz, however, that civilian populations were ro- bust and therefore it would be harder to shatter enemy morale than  206 CHAPTER 4  some propo