well after the First ‘World War. Entering that war late in the day, the Americans never had an opportunity to gain first-hand experience of long-range bombing. Like other belligerents, the Americans underestimated the production demands of complex weaponry in mass, industrialized warfare: the grand plans they made for a large-scale aerial offensive never came to fruition. Nonetheless, American military planners observed their allies’ checkered progress in planning and implementing a long-range bombing policy, and drew lessons from it.  Despite the Wright Brothers’ achievements, the Americans took surely approach to developing and exploiting the military possi for aircraft. In 1907 the U.S. Army established an Aeronautical Division within the Signal Corps to deal with air machines, ballooning, and re- lated topics. In the same year, the service set out specifications for a military airplane, and accepted a bid by the Wright Brothers. But real progress was slow, and in 1911—only three years before the outbreak of war—the Signal Corps still had but one plane and one pilot.’” That year Congress finally appropriated funds for army aeronautics: five new planes were ordered, and new pilots were trained. By then, however, the United States had fallen well behind the Europeans.” The U.S. War Department’s Field Service Regulations of 1914 acknowledged aviation only for reconnaissance and observation of artillery fire; aircraft were not mentioned in the section dealing with combined arms operations. While these guidelines were modified several times in subsequent years, the sections on aviation remained essentially unchanged.” The 1st Aero Squadron, which was formally established in September 1914 with eight planes and ten pilots, saw its first service in northern Mexico in 1916, during operations against revolutionary leader Pancho Villa. The frail planes could not cope with the weather and the demands of active field service; within six weeks all had either crashed or become