t be prepared in an emergency to carry out attacks on essential enemy targets. Later, in May 1939, he argued that Ludlow-Hewitt’s outlook was overly pessimistic.” This ten- sion not only recalled the general problem of opposing views that had  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 181  arisen during the First World War, but foreshadowed future wartime conflicts within the bureaucratic machinery of the British air offensive.  Whether and how Bomber Command might carry out Air Staff war plans was not the only issue bedeviling strategy however. Another con- cern was how British planning might be squared with the new impera- tive of doing everything possible to encourage Germany to keep the “gloves on” until the British bomber force could be enlarged and made more capable. This required a reexamination of the frustrating, unre- solved issue of what was to be considered a “military target,” and who in Germany ought to be considered “noncombatants.” Attitudes and interpretations varied from person to person, even within the RAF. As the Hague Draft Rules of 1923 had not been ratified, international law provided no definitive guidance on the issue. And yet the question could not be avoided. The government, which had only recently abandoned the fruitless quest for an international agreement on aerial bombing, was in favor of doing anything it could to reduce the chances of Ger- many’s attempting a “knock-out blow” against cities in the early stages of war. Prime Minister Chamberlain choose to adhere to the Hague Draft Rules, such as they were. On 21 June 1938 he had declared in the House of Commons that it was against international law to make delib- erate attacks on civilian populations, and he specified that targets of air bombardment should be “legitimate military objectives” capable of identification. Reasonable care should be taken in attacks on such tar- gets so as to reduce the chances of collateral civilian casualties. The devil, as ever, lurked in the details of the phras