is took the view that the most immediate menace to Britain would arise if Germany were to use the Luftwaffe for unrestricted air attacks on the nation. Appendix II of the report, which tried to provide some idea of what such an attack might look like, pointed out that the Germans might wage intensive air strikes against Britain to persuade the popula- tion that “surrender was preferable to the continuation of the attacks.”"* The planners—influenced by Harris—believed that this might be mit- igated by air defensive measures, but nonetheless admitted that they had been “unable . . . to discover any method of direct defence sufficiently  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 115  effective to guarantee the security of objectives in this country,” and thus believed that “the only real answer lies in a counter-offensive of at least similar effectiveness.”’” But they could not identify any German target so valuable as London, nor any highly vulnerable economic tar- get; they selected the “bases, communications, and maintenance organ- isation of the German bomber force” as the initial targeting priority. Though this course was seen to have serious disadvantages, they could envision no other short-term answer. They postulated however that in a later phase of the war the RAF would prosecute a broad bomber offen- sive designed to strike at the “sources of Germany’s belligerent power as a whole” (which Harris would later interpret as Germany’s great indus- trial cities). If a counteroffensive on land remained necessary, the RAF would be called upon to help prepare for it. These tasks would require a large, heavy bomber force able to deliver a great weight of attack on to the enemy."*  The plan failed to call for the initial, overwhelming offensive that Trenchard had envisioned, and it gave initial priority instead to counter- force targeting of aircraft on the ground—a strategy that Trenchard had largely eschewed. But Trenchard, who had never faced a serious aerial enemy after World War I