al mission of the RAF and the practical means by which to achieve it. An avoidance of analytical rigor, com- bined with rhetorical flexibility designed to serve organizational needs, had left behind problems. Fundamental points of contention remained over interservice cooperation, counterforce operations, and targeting. RAF members debated the aim of their organization among themselves, while remaining on the defensive with respect to the other services.  The RAF’s focus on its strategic mission in these years tended to edge out thorough consideration of missions shared by the other services, including tactical cooperation with the army. Indeed, Sir Maurice Dean has written that “[bletween 1918 and 1939 the RAF forgot how to support the army.”' So far apart did the army and RAF drift in the interwar years that they began to lose the ability to communicate with one another effectively. In one exercise in 1939, considerable confusion prevailed until personnel from each side got together to work out the meaning, in practice, of such terms as “close support” and “direct sup- port.”"" If the significance of close support of troops had been recog- nized and understood during the First World War, it was not clear quite how it might play out in a future war—and this situation was hardly helped by the fact that the British had set themselves firmly against the possibility of another 1914-style continental commitment. In addition, postwar analyses of close air support often focused on its high cost in pilots and aircraft." If high cost had been a feature of long-range bombing as well, its proponents were inclined to overlook it; with close air support—a use of aircraft which tied air forces to armies and did little to further a rationale for independence—airmen tended to high- light rather than overlook disadvantages. In general, the Air Staff frowned on those few cooperative initiatives that did develop with the army, and Army Air Forces maneuvers lacked the most basic featu