ed, “If I were you I would not be too exacting as regards accuracy in bombing railway sta- tions in the middle of towns. The German is susceptible to bloodiness, and I would not mind a few accidents due to inaccuracy.” And Prime Minister Lloyd George looked ahead to 1919 when the RAF would be in a position to wage “devastating raids” on the German homeland.'”  If the Air Staff accepted the idea of the moral effect of bombing, they nonetheless ultimately parted company with Trenchard regarding the way to achieve it, the emphasis to be placed upon it, and the degree to which it should be elevated rhetorically as the “primary effect” of the Independent Force.” Immediately after Trenchard’s story appeared in the 21 September 1918 Daily Mail, Lt. Col. J. Gammell fired off an angry memorandum to Groves. While Gammell accepted the concept of moral effect, he questioned Trenchard’s exaggerated claims and appar- ent dismissal of bombing’s material effects. He argued: “G.O.C., LE. is alleged to have said that the moral damage is of far greater importance than the material. This is at variance with the policy of the Air Force  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 47  submitted to the War Cabinet and adopted by them.” He complained that Trenchard had not stressed the “war against vital German indus- tries which is the real work of the Independent Force,” and he pointed out in frustration, “If statements of this kind appear in the press . . . it is difficult to see how the public can be educated up to appreciate the real policy of the Air Staff and so give the War Cabinet enough support to enable their policy to be carried through.” Tiverton, who had dili- gently explored schemes to make terror bombing work, nonetheless re- mained committed to the primary importance of the material effect of bombing. In early October 1918 he composed yet another memoran- dum on the future possibilities for long-distance bombing. Working from the premise that it would be possible, realistically, to wage only