ely low level of resources involved and the paucity of industrial targets, they argued, made its utility for comparison limited at best. Prevailing im- ages and assumptions were preserved since, at the end of the day, one could claim that air power had been mishandled, or that the war en- tailed unique circumstances that would not pertain to a future war in- volving large industrial nations, or to Britain in particular. Through se- lective interpretation of the available data, British air planners were able to avoid a reinterpretation of their existing hypotheses. In a similar vein, professional military journals in Britain did not give the Spanish war the kind of attention it might have merited.”  Some of the most dramatic information from Spain had to do with low-flying attacks on infantry. But even as they reported on this infor- mation, Air Ministry officials insured that it would not greatly alter their views. On 21 September 1937, Wing Commander R. V. Goddard, the Chairman of the Joint Intelligence Sub-Committee on Spain, re- ported that aerial attack had a great effect on ground troops. In a pas- sage that foreshadowed later events in France, Goddard stressed the “terrifying roar of diving and zooming aircraft close overhead.” None- theless, he insisted that such attacks cause high aircraft losses, and he reminded his readers that “these attacks have been carried out against troops whose standard of training and morale is lower than that of regular trained troops against whom the effect of such attacks would probably be less great.”*” In the same month, the Deputy Director of Operations (DDOps) sent a minute to the Deputy Chief of Air Staff (DCAS) arguing against drawing the RAF into close support duties, which he viewed as “uneconomical.” He insisted that, in accordance with the War Manual, the RAF had not contemplated (in a war in the European theater) “any organized close support by aircraft at all” as “no units are really trained in such work.” He said th