an a week. The cam- paign also renewed full-scale attacks on North Korean cities, beginning in July. The 29 August attack on Pyongyang was designed to “punish the enemy with air power,” yielding a psychological payoff during the Moscow Conference between the Chinese and the Russians.’ Following a course similar to the one the USAAF had followed in World War II, FEAF’s Bomber Command was, by early 1953, attacking small cities and towns deemed important to the communist supply system. Still, however, negotiations dragged on, with little apparent change in the enemy’s determination to hold out.  The campaign’s last phase was particularly dramatic. In March 1953 FEAF targeteers began to study North Korea’s irrigation system. His patience exhausted, General Clark told the Joint Chiefs that he was prepared to breach twenty dams, which would flood areas producing approximately 250,000 tons of rice. At the same time FEAF Bomber Command made plans to destroy what remained of Pyongyang. In the course of events, the campaign went forward more modestly, with mid- May attacks on three dams situated near railway lines. (Officially, these could have been designated “interdiction” attacks against those railway lines—although neither FEAF planners nor the communists perceived them that way.) The raids flooded nearby villages and rice fields. The North Koreans worked vigorously to repair the Toksan dam site in par- ticular: thirteen days later they had repaired the dam and the railway lines around it, and had placed anti-aircraft artillery around the dam itself. Two more dams were struck in June, and planners anticipated further strikes. These, however, were delayed pending the outcome of armistice negotiations. Those talks resulted, shortly thereafter, in a truce.””  There has been no consensus on the dam raids’ impact. Historians recently have tended to argue that they probably had some effect on the  296 CONCLUSION  negotiations, even though that impact is difficult to specify and