so slow in coming. Fol- lowing a tour of operational units in England in the spring of 1943, Asst. Secretary of War Robert Lovett realized the importance of escorts; he informed General Arnold that there was an “immediate need” in Europe for long-range fighters and “proper tanks”—not only for P-47s, but for P-38s and P-51s as well. The P-51 had been produced originally for the British in lieu of the Curtiss fighters they had requested from North American Aviation, Inc. But the initial model, in which the Amer- icans took little interest, had disappointing performance capabilities. Not until the British replaced its Allison V-1710 engine with a much more capable Rolls Royce Merlin 61 did the plane begin to show real promise. American interest in the plane picked up, and, equipped with the American-built Packard-Merlin engine, the P-51 quickly outclassed other aircraft of its type.  Even in the summer of 1943, however, the Americans had not totally recognized the potential of a solution so near at hand—in large part because they had not yet completely acknowledged that there was a problem to be solved. Of the first 145 P-51B machines produced be- tween June and August 1943, none was sent to Britain as a long-range fighter. Only after the second Schweinfurt raid was the production schedule for the P-51s (and P-38s) reconfigured to give priority produc- tion to long-range escorts over reconnaissance types. Once they had been forced to recognize the problem, however, the Americans took ad- vantage of the available solution. Relying on a fully-functioning indus- trial production base, they built escorts and brought them into the Eu- ropean theater in large numbers. Soon, escorted USSTAF bombers were flying regularly to strategic targets that the Germans felt compelled to defend, provoking furious battles of attrition between German and US. fighters. These contests ultimately proved to be a first step in the destruction of the Luftwaffe.  In this same period, the Americans