by 1917-18. In Britain, Tiverton perceived a natural opportunity to attack “bottlenecks” in the enemy’s war-fighting infrastructure. Direct attack on key industries and resources would offer an efficient means of undermining and ultimately collapsing the enemy war effort. To him— and the Americans who appreciated and indeed appropriated his think- ing—the idea was obvious and logical.  If the gap was great between the heady promises of the Smuts report and the reality of Britain’s Independent Force, Trenchard sought to close it through rhetoric of his own, emphasizing the “moral”—including indirect—effects of aerial bombing and the disruption it caused. If his claims were expeditious, they were nonetheless readily grasped from the  290 CONCLUSION  prevailing military culture, and resonant in the public and political realms. They derived from an overly optimistic assessment of the IF’s impact and from a particular interpretation of British public behavior under the fall of bombs—an interpretation that was neither objective nor disinterested, but instead influenced by prevailing concerns about the likely behavior of urban workers under stress. Trenchard’s instinct to protect his own record and his own version of the war effort was a natural enough response to finding himself in charge of RAF postwar interests. But it also closed off deeper and more searching analyses of what bombing had or had not accomplished in the war.  After the First World War, American airmen combined certain ele- ments of Trenchardian thinking about the moral effects of bombing with an instinctive interest in Tivertonian ideas. For a time, though, these preferences were largely academic since the Air Service’s parent service, the army, had little interest in long-range bombing. But in the United States—just as in Britain—the airplane’s appeal as a tool of war would come to be strong. Among both British and American airmen, arguments for power and autonomy came to rest heavily on claims about bo