he authors wrote, “The object here is the dislocation of normal life to the extent that the people are willing to surrender in the hope that they can at least regain a normal mode of living. Large urban populations . . . add length to the lever that an air force can apply against morale.”"" Fully aware of the moral and legal problems raised by bombing social centers, the authors justified ad- dressing the possibility of such action nonetheless: while it was “an un- deniable fact that the consensus of world opinion is opposed to such employment of air power, it is common knowledge that nearly all of the leading powers are facing the actualities of war by recognizing the prob- ability of this employment in the preparation of plans and the training of civilians to the end of minimizing the effects of such an attack.”'*  All of this indicated clearly that the Americans continued to think about the impact of bombing on enemy morale and civilian will to fight. At no point during the interwar years did the Americans cease to con- template either the psychological or indirect effects of bombing. They wrestled with it, tried to make sense of it, and sought out the connec- tions between the material and the moral effects of strategic air raids. But they usually found themselves conflicted and confused about it, and they avoided raising the moral or psychological effects of bombing to a privileged rhetorical position.  160 CHAPTER 3  Indeed, the authors of the “Air Force” text were clearly more com- fortable with and confident in their subsection titled “The Economic Sphere,” which received nearly twice as much attention as any other category in the text. In this realm they believed they could escape uncer- tainties and deal instead in practical analysis. Unsurprisingly, they en- dorsed a campaign of selective targeting based on a careful analysis of the enemy’s economic structure. In language reminiscent of the Ameri- can World War I bombing survey (to ascertain “how one indu