f the offensive and the importance of the moral effect of bombing. Because of the small size of the Staff College, both the Commandant and the Chief of Air Staff could be personally acquainted with the instructors, and it was common for exceptional students to be posted on as instructors at the College. Thus, internal ideologies perpetuated themselves.”  In the mid 1920s and early 1930s it was not unusual to find articles in The Hawk (the RAF Staff College Yearbook and Journal) and the Royal Air Force Quarterly about the virtues of horseback riding, or bazaars in Baghdad. The pull of the old cavalry mentality—in a service that until recently had been part of the army—was evident. Riding, with all the romantic, nostalgic images it evoked, remained part of RAF culture. For several years The Hawk devoted most of its essays on the annual com- bined exercise at Camberly (including the Army, RAF, and Navy Staff Colleges) to the “outstanding event of the week”: the annual “Drag Hunt,” designed to test the students’ strength of character by placing them on horseback (even those who could not ride well) and sending them over a course of difficult obstacles at breakneck speed. Sir John  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 93  Slessor would later write laconically, “There was a slight tendency for the Drag to assume undue importance in the curriculum at Camberly.”**  Though a key part of the RAF Staff College mission was to articu- late the assumptions on which wartime air strategy would rest, its leadership often seemed resistant to grappling with details in advance of events. They preferred to stress general principles and leave plenty of room for improvisation in the event. This was part of a broad ten- dency in British military thought, and, while it had certain advantages, was increasingly risky in the age of mechanization and ever more com- plex methods of warfare—all of which demanded analysis and calcula- tion. Brooke-Popham, the first commandant of the Staff College, cau- tione