s, besides D’Olier, included Henry Alexander (vice-chairman), George Ball, Paul Nitze, Theodore Wright, Fred Searls, and John Ken- neth Galbraith. Their job was to produce an independent, objective re- port (not issued under the auspices of the United States Army Air Forces) on wartime bombing.” Though USAAF leaders initially sup- ported a wholly independent report, they grew anxious that it might evaluate only the results of the war, without adequately considering the course of the war, and the challenges it posed. Their concern was acute enough that General Spaatz authorized a separate study, under his di- rector of intelligence, titled “The Contribution of Air Power to the De- feat of Germany.” It stressed the long struggle for air supremacy and the large air effort devoted to ground support operations.’ Fully cognizant  272 CHAPTER S$  of their upcoming battle for service independence, USAAF leaders wanted to insure that their own perspective on the war was known and available to others.  The personnel of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS) followed the advance of front line troops in the end stages of the war, examining bomb damage and interviewing factory managers and local German officials.” This work, undertaken so closely on the heels of advancing armies, was often dangerous. USSBS personnel produced re- ports on key targets systems, as well as more than 200 special reports on a variety of topics, such as the influence of weather upon bombing operations. In all, over 330 reports and annexes were released for print- ing in 1946. Two special reports on the war in Europe—the Over-all Report (European War), and the Summary Report (European War)— were the focus of attention when the survey conclusions were released publicly and became the most widely cited portions of the survey for Europe.” The Summary Report for the Pacific war, written mainly by Paul Nitze, was the most widely read portion of the survey assessing the Far Eastern campaign. These