n what may have been direct response to Charlton, he explained that the “drenching” of great cities with gas would be “profoundly obnoxious to the moral sense of man- kind,” with far-reaching political considerations. He argued, as well, that restraint might be brought about by the fact that “the real arbiters in a momentous decision of this kind must, by the irony of circum- stances, become in their own persons among its first victims.” Morison was greatly concerned, however, with efforts by a potential enemy to set fire to London from the air, using large concentrations of high thermal capacity incendiary bombs."  For its part, the government was not prepared to take any chances with the prospect of gas warfare. Because gas had been the subject of much research in Britain, more was known about its effects than was known about the effects of high explosive or incendiary bombs.” The first ARP circular on civil defense (July 1935), provided information on gas masks, other antigas equipment, and the setting up of a gas school to train instructors. These measures were meant to instill within the population the sense that they could protect themselves through self- help measures. In regard to war preparations in general, though, the trend in Britain until the late 1930s was generally away from full public discussion. For political reasons the government kept under wraps the details of most of its home defense plans. A ban on the full disclosure of information regarding wartime measures, including naming the enemy, was not lifted until after the Munich crisis of 1938.'”  The 1930s saw no diminution in the grim casualty estimates put for- ward for air war. The preparation of the 1935 circular prompted the Air Staff to produce a more ominous picture than ever before: it envi- sioned the German air force, operating out of the Low Countries, able to drop 150 tons of bombs daily for an unspecified period. After reports of air attacks on Barcelona in 1938, the government raise