tile system of supply.” There-  UNITED STATES IN INTERWAR YEARS 141  fore, “The long-range of the bomber should be utilized to the full, and every sensitive point and nerve center of the [supply] system put under pressure, in an effort to paralyze the whole.” Rejecting haphazard or dispersed attacks, he added, “Not a mission should be executed which does not fit in with a well defined strategic plan.” In language similar to that used by Tiverton and the London Air Staff during World War I, Sherman cogently articulated a set of ideas that would shortly thereafter take on a central doctrinal role at ACTS as the “industrial fabric” or “key-node” theory of targeting:  Industry consists . . . of a complex system of interlocking factories, each of which makes only its allotted part of the whole. ... Accordingly, in the majority of industries, it is necessary to destroy certain elements of the industry only, in order to cripple the whole. These elements may be called the key plants. These will be carefully determined, usually before the out- break of war.... On the declaration of war, these key plants should be made the objective of a systematic bombardment, both by day and by night, until their destruction has been assured, or at least until they have been sufficiently crippled.*  Sherman took the lead in outlining what would come to be embraced by Americans as the “American” view of air warfare. It was not uniquely American, since its provenance could be traced back to Gor- rell’s 1917 appropriation of Tiverton’s ideas. But it had become an important refrain for Americans, and one that they seemed to adopt instinctively. Sherman had now articulated it clearly and fully in a book- length treatise on aircraft in war. His low-key style and his untimely death prevented him from receiving full recognition for his ideas, and from becoming a leading name in the history of U.S. Air Force thought.  By the end of the decade, American airmen were increasingly lured by the promise o