even temporarily, was disturbing and disorienting. But, with their counteroffensive capa- bilities so uncertain, they were hardly in a strong position to parry suc- cessfully Inskip’s thrust—at least at the moment. The Air Ministry’s lay- ered reaction to Inskip was later summed up best, perhaps, by Sir John Slessor’s internally inconsistent reflection: “To multiply fighters is the usual refuge of the ignorant about air power, but in this case it was undoubtedly justified.”** Air Staff members, however, could take solace in reminding themselves that the situation was only temporary, and that they still would be able, eventually, to wage a war more or less as they had envisioned. Relying on the sound work that had been done on air defense through the interwar years, they focused their near-term ener- gies on resisting a German attack. But all along they intended to pre- serve their commitment to the offensive, and reemphasize it at the ear- liest possible moment.  Still, building the basis of an offensive force would be no mean feat: the problems facing Bomber Command were manifold—and daunting. When Sir Edgar Ludlow-Hewitt had assumed leadership of Bomber Command in the autumn of 1937, he had taken an inspection tour to assess the state of the organization. In reporting the results to the Air Staff on 10 November, he was frank. He told them he had expected some confusion due to the rate of expansion, but found the current situation with respect to war preparedness “most disquieting.” He an- nounced to his colleagues that Bomber Command was “entirely un- prepared for war, unable to operate except in fair weather, and ex- tremely vulnerable both in the air and on the ground.”*” His unvarnished revelations made him an uncomfortable figure among his colleagues, many of whom preferred to try to convince themselves that things were not so bad.*° Ironically, the man who had once warned against “calculations” was now having to make very many of them. To his credit, he set a