es which must be overcome before any approximation to the ideal of ‘Law—not War’ is possible.”"* But if the public in Britain was inclined to endorse those who called for peace, their stance was not unrelated to their imaginative foreboding about the consequences of future air wars. Groves himself had helped establish this environment through articles he wrote for the Times (London) in  104 CHAPTER 2  the spring of 1922.” Widely cited afterward as a reliable account of future air warfare, the articles developed themes that would be repeated steadily through the interwar years in Britain. Echoing H. G. Wells, Groves pointed out that aviation had made war an affair of “areas” rather than “fronts”: at the outset of conflict, each side would strike immediately at the “heart and nerve centers” of its opponent with high explosive, incendiary, and poison gas bombs. Certain that civilians would suffer these onslaughts, and pessimistic about the chances for successful air defense, Groves explained that the only course was there- fore a “policy of aerial offensive-defensive” which would unleash a long-distance striking force against the enemy."”  Ministers, politicians, and other opinion leaders promulgated similar ideas in articles, public speeches, and House of Commons debates. In- deed, the annual Commons debate on the defense budget served as a regular catalyst for dire proclamations about the menace of air war- fare.’ Capt. Frederick E. Guest, who had a short tenure as Air Minister after Churchill, gave an ominous speech on air power to lead off the 1922 debates on air estimates in the House of Commons. And Sir Sam- uel Hoare, an admirer of Trenchard who served as civilian Air Minister from 1922 to 1929, argued that an aerial counteroffensive would be vital both for deterrence and for defense if deterrence failed. Sir Freder- ick Sykes, who was responsible for civil aviation after the war, wrote of great aerial armadas that would aim at the heartland of their enemy in fu