ng agendas and institutional interests. In 1911 the Air Battalion of the Royal Engineers had been formed, and in 1912 the Royal Flying Corps (REC), originally comprising both a military and a naval wing, had been established. An Air Committee of the CID (Committee of Imperial Defence) took shape to preside over the new interservice institution. But this arrangement had not settled the issue, particularly in light of ongo- ing tension between the army and navy. Despite concerns about the vulnerability of Britain to air attack, air defense remained a thorny, un- resolved issue within the larger debate over organization; indeed, the British had not overcome these difficulties to make fully adequate air defense preparations prior to the outbreak of war.”  Because the navy did not wish to lose control over its aviation, it  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 21  managed to acquire, by July 1914, recognition of a separate Royal Naval Air Service (RNAS). On the presumption that the “short” war in Europe would call for a full continental engagement of the British army’s air arm, the RFC, the Secretary of State for War, Lord Kitchener, handed responsibility for home defense to the RNAS. To prevent or at least curtail zeppelin attacks on Britain, First Lord of the Admiralty Winston Churchill opted for preemptive strikes against zeppelin sheds at such places as Cologne, Cuxhaven, Diisseldorf, and Friedrichshaven. Churchill, thereafter associated for many decades with British air power and long-range bombing, also authorized development of a heavy bomber in December 1914. The RNAS’s anti-airship raids were flown from various British toe-holds on the continent; by November, all RNAS aircraft in Flanders were concentrated at Dunkirk. Though RNAS pilots reported six successes against zeppelins in or near their sheds, it was not enough to prevent airship raids against England, which commenced January 1915." The raids put the British in an unac- customed situation: suddenly, the nation was un