es of their intended targets. The report forced even the staunchest optimists to rethink the situation. Peirse was dismayed and discomfited.® The prime minister, who had begun harboring doubts about the bomber offensive, told Portal that the report required “most urgent attention.” Days later he reflected, “It is an awful thought that perhaps three-quarters of our bombs go astray. If we could make it half and half we should virtually have doubled our bombing power.”" At the same time, the Chiefs of Staff discussed the very high losses then being sustained by Bomber Command: no less than 107 aircraft had been lost between mid-July and mid-August. The prime minister suggested that attacks be scaled back in the face of bad weather."  Portal at this juncture undertook to improve navigation, develop marker bombs, and to train “expert fire raising crews.” In addition he urged that it had become necessary, under the circumstances, to under- take a careful reconsideration of bombing policy. He explained that there was a growing body of opinion to the effect that “by keeping as many Germans out of bed as possible for as long as possible every night we shall achieve far greater moral effect and not much less material  196 CHAPTER 4  effect than by attempting concentrated attacks with the primary object of material destruction.”** Vice Chief of the Air Staff Sir Wilfrid Free- man entered a strong objection to the momentum of events, however, arguing that material damage could be achieved only by concentration and not by the dispersal of effort that Portal was recommending. He rejected the notion that British policy should rest on the assumption that German civilian behavior was fundamentally different from British civilian behavior. Freeman emphasized that “Lord Trenchard’s theory . .. depends on a basis which is fundamentally unsound. Material dam- age would be negligible and the enemy’s morale, if not stimulated, will certainly be strengthened in a very short time.” But Port