]he civilian population is not organized into regiments which, by special training and tradition, claim and inspire the self-forgetful devotion of individuals.” As if to remedy the situation, Dr. Maurice Wright suggested that “[t]he civilian population must be treated as if they were combatant troops; they must be under authority and know what to do and what to avoid doing in case of emergency."  REARMAMENT: THE EARLY YEARS  Even though the British government continued to seek a path to disar- mament, it was forced, after the failure of the Geneva Conference, to face the prospect of rearmament. When the Geneva armaments “truce” expired in March 1933, Britain’s first line possessed only six day- and five night-bomber squadrons. The Auxiliary Air Force and the Special Reserve contained eight day- and two night-bomber squadrons." Build- ing a new air force would be complicated and lengthy, and made all the more difficult by ongoing concerns about Britain’s financial situation, the tense environment that seemed to preclude clear and sober thinking, and strained relations between the Air Ministry and the Foreign Office.’” Though the process was underway by 1934, it got off to a slow and halting start. Air rearmament was marked by eight different stages, la- beled expansion schemes A to M (the extra letters being those that did  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 111  not achieve official approval). On the whole, the British aircraft indus- try would respond well under the circumstances, ultimately producing invaluable types.’ But difficulties were inevitable in a telescoped and unavoidably stressful process, and these troubles had their reflection in the early years of the war. There were several underlying causes for the problems that arose.  First, the Air Ministry was hesitant to commit too rapidly to aircraft designs that might well become obsolete on the production line. Their concerns were not unjustified since aircraft technology was in a period of particular flux and deve