re an air force composed quite differ- ently from that which we are now creating. If therefore it is your view that the strategic picture has changed since the issue of your original directives I would urge that revised instructions should be given to the Chiefs of Staff without a moment’s delay.” Portal thus called the prime  2 INTRODUCTION  minister to account with a response that one observer at the time called “masterly” and “audacious.”*  Churchill, however, refused to be put on the defensive. Acknowledg- ing the significance of Bomber Command’s role, he nonetheless warned Portal against “placing unbounded confidence in this means of attack.” He argued, “Even if all the towns of Germany were rendered largely uninhabitable, it does not follow that the military control would be weakened or even that war industry could not be carried on.” He lashed out at the RAF’s previous claims about strategic bombing, and the fears that they had aroused in Britain at the time of the Munich crisis: “Before the war we were greatly misled by the pictures [the Air Staff] painted of the destruction that would be wrought by Air raids. This is illustrated by the fact that 750,000 beds were actually provided for Air raid casualties, never more than 6,000 being required.” He charged that “[t]his picture of Air destruction was so exaggerated that it depressed the statesmen responsible for the prewar policy, and played a definite part in the desertion of Czecho-Slovakia in August 1938.”*  This was a tense moment. While bold interwar claims about the power of bombers and the vulnerability of enemy societies had helped preserve the RAF’s institutional autonomy, they had also contributed to deep public anxiety about future wars. When he took office in 1940, Churchill had placed faith in Bomber Command’s ability to make good on its claims and to turn them strongly to Britain’s advantage. By 1941, though, those claims seemed empty. What had happened? And what would the future hold?  Just over