emained as committed as ever to city bombing, which he felt certain was responsi- ble for Germany’s distress and for the ongoing advance of Allied ground forces on both the eastern and western fronts.’ When Harris closed with a threat to resign (it was not the first time he had done so), Portal backed off, writing, “I willingly accept your assurance that you will continue to do your utmost to ensure the successful execution of the policy laid down. I am very sorry that you do not believe in it but it is no use my craving for what is evidently unattainable.”** Portal was not at that point prepared to remove Harris from command. Because of the inherent difficulties in interpreting weather data, there was no way to be absolutely sure that Harris was operating in contravention of Allied bombing directives." Perhaps seeking a different approach to his prob- lem, Portal (in February) raised the possibility of sending Harris to Russia so that he could point out to Stalin, in person, the contribution of strategic bombing to the Allied war effort. Harris, however, revealed no enthusiasm for the mission.'  Despite all the attention that has been given to it in the literature, no clear victor can be declared in the Portal-Harris debate. Even if one were to gather all the existing weather records for the period, there could be no final resolution to the question of whether Harris took every opportunity to attack oil: weather data itself was subject to inter- pretation that varied from individual to individual.” It may be the case that Harris did take every opportunity—as he perceived it—to attack oil. And it may be the case that he did not. After the war, the Chiefs of Staff's Committee’s Technical Sub-committee on Axis Oil concluded that oil “might possibly” have been bombed, but was not, on seven nights and three days in the last three months of 1944. Despite the difficulty of resolving the issue finally, several observations are worth raising. First, despite his grudging rhe