torical qualifications), became a bestseller. In its list of the eight causes of British decline, it ranked first “the prevalence of Town over Country life, and its disastrous effect on the health and faith of English people.”* Similarly, an amateurish 1909 play, “The English- man’s Home,” became a box office hit when it struck a chord with audiences anxious about national weakness and unpreparedness. When enemy troops from “Nearland” (a thinly-veiled reference to Germany) invade and occupy a private residence, they are met by inept civilians and military volunteers with all manner of physical and moral deficien- cies. Social reformer C.F.G. Masterman, in his Heart of Empire (1901), had lamented the handicaps faced by a new class of urban poor. “The physical change,” he wrote, “is the result of the city upbringing in twice-breathed air in the crowded quarters of the labouring classes. This is a substitute for the spacious places of the old, silent life of England: close to the ground, vibrating to the lengthy, unhurried processes of Nature.” The consequence, he gloomily explained, was “the production of a characteristic physical type of town dweller: stunted, narrow-chested, easily-wearied; yet voluble, excitable, with little ballast, stamina or endurance—seeking stimulus in drink, in betting, in any unaccustomed conflicts at home or abroad.”**  Indeed, concern over England’s perceived inability to defend itself was at the heart of a new round of invasion literature that peaked be- tween 1906 and 1909. In William LeQueux’s The Invasion of 1910 (1906), England’s problems were attributed to the fact that a strong aristocratic government had been replaced by a weak administration “swayed by every breath of popular impulse.” Lord Roberts, who had  STRATEGIC BOMBING IN WWI 17  commanded troops in South Africa, and who on his retirement became an energetic campaigner for preparedness, endorsed LeQueux’s book. A year earlier he had composed the preface to Maj. Stewart L. M