udents spent many more hours on horseback than they did addressing themselves to more useful topics such as air logistics."” The riding requirement was increas- ingly resented as the years passed. Hoping to be exempted, Lt. Col. E. L. Hoffmann wrote to the school’s commandant in 1935: “I have never liked a horse, nor admired one, except at a safe distance. . . . I fail to see that horses have any place in the science of aviation.” His request was denied." In a 1936 article for the Air Corps Newsletter, Maj. Ira Eaker explained that “the present class has suffered five major casu- alties from riding to date, including broken bones—an arm, a leg, and miscellaneous ribs. There is considerable agitation on the part of the present class to make riding optional. The student council has recom- mended that the Tactical School Cavalry be placed high on the army’s priority list for early mechanization.”  Other training methods were more obviously relevant. The Depart- ment of Air Strategy and Tactics covered attack, bombardment, pursuit, and observation aviation, as well as “Air Force,” which included a mixed bag of general topics such as “air warfare, anti-aircraft defense, and air operations.”’” If the texts for ACTS courses, updated fre- quently, were not always consistent with one another, this body of writ- ing nonetheless revealed trends and patterns representative of Air Corps thinking—patterns that continued to reflect both Trenchardian and Tivertonian ideas, and the problems and unresolved questions inherent in them. At Maxwell the Air Corps allowed itself the freedom to articu- late ideas, to wrestle with them, and finally to endorse them in print. But this process did not always resolve debates or lay the foundation for successful wartime operations. Just as in Britain, assertion and conjec- ture retained loose ends that were not satisfactorily tied off by the air- men themselves. Even if the Air Corps had been allowed or required to present its case more completel