ce in the army zone.”"* By midsummer, Sykes had revealed his own views and aspira- tions in an ambitious, forward-looking planning paper titled, “Review of Air Situation and Strategy for the Information of the Imperial War Cabinet.”*® In July, Tiverton vented his frustrations over Trenchard’s direction of strategic bombing, and the irrelevance of the Air Staff to the effort. He felt that the Air Staff needed to take a much more aggres- sive line regarding targeting priorities.” Tiverton was most troubled by Trenchard’s refusal to develop and execute any systematic plan. He had long been convinced that the Air Staff should identify German targets, and then consult with engineers, civilian industrialists, and technicians for insights into the German war industry and its vulnerabilities. In ad- dition he wished to undertake tests of equipment and to conduct exer- cises to generate data and models for analysis. In pursuit of these objec- tives, he had produced, by the end of 1918, a total of sixty-five studies for Sykes and the Air Staff." To these, however, Trenchard seemed largely oblivious: a soldier of the old tradition, he preferred to com- mand more by instinct than by science and analysis.  44 CHAPTER1  In related matters, Tiverton and the Air Staff fretted over Trenchard’s apparently haphazard attacks and his reckless disregard for the IF’s very high loss rates. And after reviewing Trenchard’s September dispatch on operations, Tiverton questioned the accuracy of the field commander’s reporting, especially claims about losses and objectives." Also in Sep- tember, veteran pilot Capt. H. McClelland calculated that although the IF flying-hour total for July 1918 exceeded June’s total by 33 percent, the wastage rate in the second month doubled. A similar analysis for July and August revealed that the wastage rate increased by 2.5 times the flying rate. Indeed, while Trenchard lost twenty-one aircraft over German lines in August, he lost another fifty-four—a staggerin