der on land or a ship “proceeds with unerring aim di- rectly to the target at which it is fired and . . . kills only the male popu- lation of fighting age.”"”  Part of the confusion left in the wake of Trenchard’s departure mani- fested itself in a staff exercise for the Wessex Bombing Area Headquar- ters of the Air Defence of Great Britain (CADGB), held on 13-15 March 1933 and written up by Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief (AOC) Air Vice-Marshal T. Webb-Bowen. Based on the premise that the “Western European Confederation” was about to commence intensive air attacks on London, Webb-Bowen drew up a plan of response. While it met with general approval, it raised questions among some reviewers, who asked, rhetorically, if the targeting guidance laid out in the 1928 Manual had been clear enough. In brief, the AOC’s objective was to attempt to “break the enemy’s national resistance in the shortest possi- ble time.” Concerned that he would not be able to crush the enemy’s will by material damage alone, Webb-Bowen argued, “Our effort must therefore be directed against the morale of the civil population with the object of so disorganizing the normal daily life of the individual that a continuance of such conditions becomes intolerable. This postulates striking primarily at targets located in thickly populated areas.”'*° He settled on a plan that sent the bulk of his force against centers of gov- ernment, and the rest against the aircraft industry and other industrial areas. He identified material damage as a “secondary consideration”  100 CHAPTER 2  behind “moral pressure,” and defended his position with language that sounded remarkably similar to that found in Trenchard’s final war dis- patch of 1919."  Over the summer of 1933, however, the exercise was drawn into an intraservice debate on the “war aim” of the RAE. Staff College Com- mandant Joubert de la Ferté opened the debate by bringing to the atten- tion of the Air Ministry his concerns that the real “aim” of the RAF w