ennault wrote an eight-page critique, arguing that the P-26 was outmoded compared to foreign fighters of far superior quality. He argued further that, instead of proving the invulnerability of bombers, the maneuvers only proved the need for improved intercep- tors, better tactics, and effective ground control.'* In 1936 the Air Corps’s Chief of the War Plans and Training Division felt compelled to dispute and disown a critical article Chennault published in the May— June 1936 Infantry Journal.”  So convinced was Chennault of the soundness of his own ideas that he successfully tested an experimental air defense system that included ground observers, a centralized communications agency, and alert fighters. But while he was able to influence a group of young fighter pilots—one of whom suggested that if the bomber boys could be lured into a fair test, real bullets should be used—Chennault did not make much of a dent in the bomber orthodoxy then ascendent. His retirement in 1937 due to physical disability meant that the bomber advocates were freed from the naysayings of their most persistent and vocal critic.’  As in Britain, this issue was hindered by rivalry and compartmentaliz- ation. No disinterested central authority successfully mediated the de- bate. Once the theory of the long-range self-defending bomber had taken hold, it proved surprisingly robust. The 1935 “Bombardment” text prescribed that escorts for bombers would not be provided unless bombers could not in fact penetrate enemy resistance.’” This contingent statement implied that escorts would be on call if experience ever con- tradicted theory. But, though a fitful quest for an escort continued, it never enjoyed high priority before the war. In 1935 the Air Corps Board chose to handle the escort issue by recommending that bomber aviation  170 CHAPTER 3  seek out every means for self-defense; only if all other means failed should additional aircraft be provided to support long-range missions. It suggested th