mbing to exploit oppor- tunities created in part or wholly by the other services, discovered in this role its greatest strength. In addition, bombing kept a check on the development of new weapons in Germany, and aided—crucially at times—in the war at sea. It made possible a successful Allied landing on the coast of France and contributed to the collapse of Japan in August 1945.  The Second World War made it obvious that a military force able to win and hold dominance in the air would have a profound advantage over its enemies. The lesson was clear enough: any state with interna- tional interests and powerful enemies would have to be prepared to wage, and to defend against, air war. Strategic bombing did not, how- ever, fulfill the bold and dramatic claims of the 1917 Smuts prophesy: “[T]he day may not be far off when aerial operations with their devas- tation of enemy lands and destruction of industrial and populous cen- ters on a vast scale may become the principal operations of war, to which the older forms of military and naval operations may become secondary and subordinate.” The other services had not, in fact, be- come “secondary and subordinate.” If airplanes had made themselves, in every imaginable way, fixtures of modern warfare, they had not yet evoked a revolutionary change in its conduct. This insured that interser- vice rivalries—which after the war would be complicated by the issue of nuclear weapons—would continue to affect and condition all argu- ments about strategic bombing in war.  The Smuts claims had not been fulfilled because modern societies and economies had proven far more resilient than the advocates of strategic bombing had predicted they would be. In March 1945, the peak month of the Combined Bomber Offensive, the USAAF and Bomber Command together dropped more than 130,000 tons of bombs—well over their combined total effort for the year in 1942, and just under the total tonnage Bomber Command had dropped for the year in 1943.2” Still, th