ted their commitment to Edwardian martial culture, includ- ing the idea of the decisive battle.* In 1916, Trenchard implemented a policy that pushed his own fighters deep over the lines to interdict en- emy aircraft and keep them on the defensive. In support of the plan, he cited the French experience at Verdun, where aviators were able to pen- etrate the Germans’ defensive Luftsperre (air blockade) designed to deny Allied aerial freedom of movement.” He felt that taking and main- taining the offensive in the air could achieve moral as well as material dominance over the enemy. Over the course of the Somme campaign, REC pilots flew aggressive patrols designed to win freedom of maneuver for British reconnaissance, artillery, and other ground support aircraft— and to deny such freedom to the enemy. In a memorandum of Septem- ber 1916, Trenchard officially asserted that at the Somme British air policy was one of “relentless and incessant offensive” that “had the effect so far on the enemy of compelling him to keep back or to detail portions of his forces in the air for defensive purposes.” He argued, “It is the deliberate opinion of those most competent to judge that .. . an aeroplane is an offensive and not a defensive weapon. Owing to the unlimited space in the air, the difficulty one machine has in seeing an- other, the accidents of wind and cloud, it is impossible for aeroplanes, however skillful and vigilant their pilots, however numerous their for- mations, to prevent hostile aircraft from crossing the line if they have  28 CHAPTER 1  the initiative and determination to do so.”* The memorandum, much- quoted during the war, also influenced a summary of RFC results (printed in October 1917), which similarly stressed Trenchard’s “lessons” of the Somme offensive."  Trenchardian tactics did in fact cause anxiety on the German side of the lines. Astonished by the British determination despite heavy losses, the Germans worried about interference with their artillery wor