en. Carl A. Spaatz, who would later head the U.S. Strategic Air Forces in Europe (USSTAF), had his early war experience forged in a similar way."”  In mid-June 1942, Harris sent the prime minister a personal minute in which he argued vigorously for giving Bomber Command the support it would need to defeat Germany without resort to a large-scale ground campaign that might, Harris speculated, see Britain’s youth slaughtered once again in the mud of Flanders." Harris felt so strongly about the issue that later in the summer he reiterated his argument to Churchill and, in an even more passionate form, to Portal. In planning for an eventual invasion, Harris argued, “United Nations’ soldier strategists” were driven by a “blind and even pathetic urge to do that only thing which they know how.” He insisted that the war would have to be won in the air, and that Bomber Command could not be diverted repeatedly from its main purpose. He stressed, in underlined text: “When it be- comes possible to defeat the German army on land by United Nations’ forces transported overseas, there will no longer be any need to defeat them. They will already have broken.”  Harris’s vision was a radical one, and in the end Churchill was not prepared to commit himself to it. If Harris was disappointed by Churchill’s refusal to bet solely on the air power horse, he was nonethe- less the beneficiary of the prime minister’s great desire to wear Germany down prior to a direct confrontation between Allied ground forces and the Wehrmacht. Throughout the war Churchill had complex and am- bivalent attitudes toward strategic bombing, and these attitudes made him frequently anxious, impatient, and unpredictable. Back in March he had summed up his views on bombing to Secretary of State for Air Sir Archibald Sinclair: “[I]t is not decisive but better that doing nothing, and indeed is a formidable method of injuring the enemy.”" The con- flicted phrasing betrayed much. Churchill had been, at various points in h