fought.” In his 1916 memorandum on the pri- macy of an offensive posture in the air, he wrote, “[T]he moral effect produced by a hostile aeroplane . . . is all out of proportion to the dam- age which it can inflict.” He added, “The sound policy which should guide all warfare in the air would seem to be this: to exploit the moral effect of the aeroplane on the enemy, but not to let him exploit it on ourselves.” The March 1917 edition of the RFC’s manual “Fighting in the Air” had asserted that the psychological impact of aircraft is similar to the psychological impact of a successful cavalry action, and that the “moral effect produced by an aeroplane is also out of all proportion to the material damage which it can inflict, which in itself is considerable.”**  In moving from the tactical realm to the strategical realm, Trenchard took the idea with him. Now, however, it applied not just to fighting men and their leaders, but to entire societies. The transfer seemed natu- ral enough: the idea that modern war was nothing less than an all-out struggle between states (requiring all their resources) had been a funda- mental tenet of the German school, and the argument had resonated in England. In 1905, for instance, Maj. Stewart Murray referred to “these days of scientific warfare when wars are waged by great empires with the whole united force of their peoples.” The “total” nature of the Great War had been lost on no one who lived through it. Sir Frederick Sykes, in his June 1918 paper, “Review of Air Situation and Strategy for the Information of the Imperial War Cabinet,” described what he called “national attrition”: “The entire population and the whole weight of the resources and industries of the opposing nations are thrown into the balance. The success of the armies or fleets entirely depends upon the energy and ‘moral’ of the nation supporting them.””*  The personnel of the new Royal Air Force well understood that their service had been brought into existence largely