merican bombers in that theater began preparing for redeployment to the Far East, where their combined power, added to existing might of the Pa- cific bombing fleet, would be loosed on the Japanese home islands.” In a letter to Bottomley at the end of March, Harris concluded with the following rhetorical question: “Japan remains. Are we going to bomb their cities flat—as in Germany—and give the armies a walk over—as in France and Germany—or are we going to bomb only their outlying factories and subsequently invade at the cost of 3 to 6 million casu- alties?”*” At the time of his writing, the Americans already were in the midst of a campaign to bomb Japanese cities flat.  Beginning in 1944, American bomber forces operated in the Japanese theater under the direction of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, with Gen. Arnold in direct command of the newly formed Twentieth Air Force.” Just less than a year later, on the night of 9-10 March 1945, American B-29 bombers launched what proved to be the single most deadly raid of the war: sixteen square miles of Tokyo were burned out, and no less than 80,000 residents were killed. The Tokyo raid had marked a turn in the American air campaign in the Far East; it came after months of frustration and stagnation. But it was not an abrupt turn. Plans to at- tack Japanese cities with incendiary bombs had been in the works for years.  The Americans had long been aware that the structure and nature of Japanese cities made them especially vulnerable to fire. In the 1920s, while the U.S.-Japanese antagonism was yet in its early stages, Billy Mitchell had noted that Japanese cities were built from inflammable materials like wood and paper. This idea influenced thinking at the Air Corps Tactical School and, in 1939, instructors there taught their stu- dents that large sections of Japanese cities “are built of flimsy and highly inflammable materials.” They argued that the earthquake disas- ter of 1924 “bears witness to the fearful destruction th