n to appear with regularity in official writings. In a paper written for the newly opened RAF Staff College (and published by that body in 1923), Wing Commander J.E.A. Baldwin focused on the idea that air raids could cause long periods of delay and disruption at a factory, even when the raid itself did little or no physical damage. He pointed out that the British offensive effort had compelled the Ger- mans to pull resources back from the front, to divert labor to defense, and to expend “vast sums” on shelters and warning systems.” Similar sentiments were articulated by Air Vice-Marshal Sir H.R.M. Brooke- Popham, who would become the first commandant of the Staff College.  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 73  In a lecture to the Royal United Services Institution, given shortly after the war, he drew pointed attention to “the amount of manpower and material that is absorbed in the endeavours to obtain protection from aircraft.” Following up on this theme in a 1924 lecture to the RAF Staff College, he offered an officially sanctioned RAF interpretation of the past and the future of air power in warfare. One of its key sections discussed the effects of German bombing of Britain—in particular the scale of the British defensive effort needed to cope with a handful of German bombers: in order to respond to a limited German offensive, the British had, from February 1918 onward, some 270 aircraft and over 13,000 men employed on searchlights and anti-aircraft guns. Brooke-Popham emphasized that “[t]he total number of German aero- plane flights over to England was 452; the total number of aeroplane flights made to beat off their attacks was 1,882, over four times as many.”**  In Trenchard’s eyes, these human and material resources devoted to defense represented a potentially significant loss to the critical offensive aspect of the war effort. In fact, the wartime experience had traced only the very steep, initial portion of a diminishing marginal returns curve. The relationship betw