very near cities, and it was not clear where “dislocation” would slide into terrorization. The issue was obscured by international legal difficulties over what constituted a “mil- itary target” and who constituted “civilians” in the brave new world of total warfare. But the Trenchardian concept of moral effect depended on weaknesses and points of vulnerability in the enemy population— and these in turn rested on assumptions about civilian reliability and worker steadfastness. Attempting to clarify his service’s position, Trenchard argued that his means of undermining enemy morale would be within the bounds of the existing law of war, which permitted at- tacks on “military objectives” wherever located. Certainly, he conceded, civilian casualties would occur, but they would result from attacks on legitimate military targets. He argued that he was not interested in in- discriminate bombing for “the sole purpose of terrorising the civilian population.” Rather his intention was to “terrorise munitions workers (men and women) into absenting themselves from work, or stevedores into abandoning the loading of a ship.”  But Trenchard’s attempted distinction was largely lost on the other chiefs. Clearly, terms like “vital centres” and “centres of manufacture, communications, and transportation” meant cities would take the brunt of the attacks, whether civilians were an explicit target or not. And terms like “enemy morale” and “national will” implied that the RAF was seeking to apply leverage against something quite human. Trench- ard did nothing to banish this impression when he said, “It will be harder to affect the will of an army in the field by air attack than to affect the morale of a Nation by attacks on its centres of supply and communications as a whole.”"’ Madden pointed out that RAF strategy as articulated would mean that the civilian life of the enemy would be “endangered to a far greater degree than has ever hitherto been contem-  BRITAIN IN INTERWAR YEARS 97  plat