itial priority instead to counter- force targeting of aircraft on the ground—a strategy that Trenchard had largely eschewed. But Trenchard, who had never faced a serious aerial enemy after World War I, had been content to make vast claims that did not have to be backed up by deeds. Operating in a very different envi- ronment, Harris and the air planners of 1936 were forced to start clos- ing the gap between rhetoric and reality; they had to think concretely about scenarios based on resources available in the near term.’” The plan—which envisioned the ultimate use of a heavy bomber force with which to prosecute a vital counteroffensive—proved a prescient guide to RAF strategy in World War II. It also, however, revealed the extent to which RAF planners “mirror imaged” assumptions about Luftwaffe be- havior in wartime. And, as Wesley Wark has explained, “Nothing dis- tilled from the sources that became available during 1937 challenged the Air Ministry’s preconceptions about the Luftwaffe’s strategic air mission. The picture indicated instead that the German air force would have both an army-support and a strategic bombing role. On this basis, a German knock-out blow could not be dismissed.” In the midst of all this, the Air Ministry had to decide how to assess and utilize informa- tion arriving from real air wars overseas.  THE AIR WARS OF THE 1930s Though the progress in air warfare during the Abyssinian crisis, the  Sino-Japanese war, and the Spanish civil war was attended to by Air Staff members, it did not substantially change their attitudes. The war  116 CHAPTER 2  in Spain, which in particular might have been seen as a testing ground for air warfare ideas, did not appear to British planners to offer many clues to a future war between Germany and Britain. The relatively low level of resources involved and the paucity of industrial targets, they argued, made its utility for comparison limited at best. Prevailing im- ages and assumptions were preserved since, at th