t able to operate in primitive condi- tions—a requirement also amenable to Treasury wishes since it offered the maximum number of aircraft for the least money. The result was a concentration of light bombers of short range and little striking power, mainly Harts and Wapitis.” If these were rational for the purpose at hand, they certainly could not close the gap between the RAF’s dra- matic public proclamations and its actual capabilities.  A bleak economic picture dominated the scene, and, in 1928 the com- pletion date of the fifty-two-squadron home defense force was post- poned again, until 1938. Also in 1928, Churchill took the first of the 1919 strategic axioms—that the services should plan on the assumption that there would be no war for a period of up to ten years—and placed it on a rolling basis, insuring that the “ten years” would continuously start anew. When Air Minister Sir Samuel Hoare protested the decision, Churchill replied that his action “would not in any way hamper the development of ideas, but would check mass production until the situa- tion demanded it.” This statement deserves particular notice since ex- planations of Britain’s unpreparedness in the air at the start of World ‘War II often have rested on assumptions about the cumulative effect of economic stringency. Slimmer budgets certainly slowed aircraft con- struction, curtailed pilot training, and eroded operational readiness. And the repeated delays of the fifty-two-squadron program certainly helped widen the cleavage between RAF declaratory policy and RAF capabilities. But the story here is less simple than it has been made out to be. The literature on interwar air power has typically overstated fis- cal constraints as a cause of the RAF’s unpreparedness at the outbreak of World War IL.  The defense preparations of any given state need to be assessed against other states at the time, not against an artificial standard re- moved from context. The RAF had not been starved of funding from th