ed organiza- tional thought. I trace organizational thought by examining the rhetoric used by British and American airmen, in intra- and inter-institutional conversations and in public statements. This rhetoric resides in a variety of places: the minutes of meetings, internal policy and planning docu- ments, speeches, lectures, journal articles, letters, and teaching materials for the air staff schools. All these sources reveal the ways in which two nascent air organizations envisioned and articulated their function as well as their plans for carrying out that function. As new organizations  INTRODUCTION 7  dealing with brand-new, rapidly evolving technologies, they faced chal- lenges, but their members brought energy, stubborn determination, and, sometimes, an almost religious fervor and commitment to their work. These qualities helped secure the place of air forces and elevate their status, but they also contributed to problems of conception and rigidity of thought.  My approach is premised on the assumption that articulations of function and policy reveal fundamental ideas within military organiza- tions and that such ideas matter. They matter because they often serve as guides to action, in whole or in part. Thus, to understand actions we must understand the premises on which they rest. And once articulated in a formal way, the premises have consequences outside the institution itself. Of course, public or “declaratory” policy may not be wholly con- sistent with actual practice. Even if later modified, a declaratory policy promulgated for any length of time not only creates echoes and socializ- ing effects inside an organization, but also produces independent conse- quences: it conveys information to other organizations, which may then modify their own behavior in response, and—particularly in the case of national institutions within democracies—it sets up public expectations about the future.  My approach is premised as well on the assumption that fundamental i