-35 “Air Force” text bluntly concurred, arguing that in World War I, “Germany, in spite of the intensity and duration of the fighting, did not lose through the military defeat of her armed forces but through the moral collapse of her civilian population.”™ This sentiment was echoed in speeches delivered throughout the 1930s by ACTS instructors. Maj. Harold L. George, Director of the Department of Air Tactics and Strat- egy, lectured for instance that the defeat of Germany had followed inev- itably from “the breakdown of the German people through the contin- uous denial of those things which are essential, not only for the prosecution of war but to sustain life itself.”  George’s comment is instructive in that it brings together a number of ideas that, explored more deeply, led to dilemmas for the Air Corps. It  158 CHAPTER 3  rested fundamentally on an assumption that Allied victory in World War I had been won mainly by the erosion of the “will to resist” of the German homefront, and it implied that a similar process of erosion could be facilitated in future wars through the application of air power, not only against those things essential to the prosecution of war, but also to the sustenance of life itself. This interpretation of the history was at least problematic, and spoke to the widespread acceptance of the Dolchstoss (“Stab in the Back”) myth stressed emphatically by inter- ested parties in Germany. Beyond this, the interpretation raised thorny issues for the Air Corps: when and how might an air force pressure an enemy population—deny it those elements necessary to sustain life it- self? The RAF had faced similar dilemmas, and had faced them more publicly, Trenchard’s solution was to remain vague and to avoid being pinned down on issues of targeting. In part this was because it gave him bureaucratic flexibility, and in part because he was disinclined to work out details in advance of events. But the elusive way in which he han- dled the question, combined wit