mbing. In early October 1918 he composed yet another memoran- dum on the future possibilities for long-distance bombing. Working from the premise that it would be possible, realistically, to wage only about eighty long-range attacks on Germany before September 1919, he made the case that targets like Berlin earlier considered the ultimate “moral” target ought to be left alone and that, instead, targeting should concentrate on the Westphalian industrial region. In a not-so-oblique reference to Trenchard, he argued that each raid ought to be “thought out, not by one man only, but by the joint brains of all those who know the question from the commercial, the political, the flying, and the tech- nical points of view.”  The war ended before a force large enough to test the Air Staff’s ideas could be brought to bear on Germany. By the time of the armistice, only three super Handley Page V/1500 aircraft had been delivered, and none had flown over German territory.’* What might have happened if the war had continued another year is hard to say, although it seems likely that, in 1919, the political pressure to bomb Berlin would have been very great. What matters here, though, was the way Trenchard handled his duties and how he explained his behavior publicly, since this would become important to the future of the RAE  In December 1918, as European affairs began to slow to a peacetime cadence, Trenchard composed his final dispatch on the Independent Force." Naturally, he wanted to put the best face on policies and deci- sions, especially since the document was for public consumption as well as the military record. He began with a straightforward overview of the circumstances leading to his assignment to the IF. A later section titled “Scheme of Attack” was the crux of the dispatch, and the part most often quoted because it articulated Trenchard’s overall approach. “The question I had to decide,” Trenchard wrote, “was how to use this Force in order to achieve the object, i.e.