nce of war. With the English Channel no longer serving as the useful moat it had been for centuries, the British felt their new vulnerability acutely. Though the postwar dismantling of the German air force had provided an important measure of security for them, the British had to pay close attention to all aerial developments on the continent, and had to assume that if another general war came, it would involve air attacks on Lon- don and other British cities. The Americans, isolated from potential ene- mies by two oceans—and, after the war, more determined than ever to stay that way—felt they could afford to be more complacent about de- velopments in aviation. Their perspective on bomber aircraft and the future of air warfare was more distanced—and far less visceral—than the British perspective.’ Like their British colleagues, American airmen believed that bombers were inherently “offensive” tools of war. But the official American national security posture circumscribed the way in which this could be interpreted and articulated. This posture was defen- sive in orientation, and bomber aircraft were given a defensive mission: to find and attack naval threats to the U.S. coastline. Until the eve of war, American airmen had to use conditional language and hypothetical scenarios whenever they discussed theories of air warfare involving stra- tegic bombing.  Differences in geography and politics produced a corollary for theo- ries of aerial bombing. The greater immediacy of the air threat to Brit- ain—and the heightened sensitivity to class issues prevailing there— inclined the British to focus somewhat more than the Americans on the specifically social ramifications of aerial bombing. This was a difference in degree, but it nonetheless mattered since it shaped fundamental con- ceptions. If Trenchard concerned himself mainly with the upheaval, dis- ruption, and dislocation caused by bombers getting into the general vi- cinity of a target, the Americans tended to keep the