e the military. Time has neither stilled the controversy nor muted the arguments, which have recently focused on the 1991 Gulf War and the 1999 bombing of Kosovo. As a new century begins, the issue remains as contentious and consequential as it was at the be- ginning of the last one, when airplanes first took to the skies.  To make sense of these debates (and the emotions they stir), one must understand the assumptions that underpinned the concept itself, and the expectations bound up in those assumptions. This book’s purpose is to trace and compare the development of ideas about long-range bombing in Britain and in the United States—the two nations that relied most heavily on this new form of warfare during the Second World War. I illuminate the factors shaping the evolution of those ideas from the turn of the century through the end of the Second World War. In this I seek not only to explain the development of a central mode of modern war, but also to shed light on the way military organizations think and be- have. Obvious questions arise: Why were the British and Americans interested in strategic bombing in the first place? What did defense plan- ners and policymakers expect of it, and why? How were these expecta- tions influenced by experience and by broader debates? Why were many of their expectations ultimately at odds with reality? These in turn pose deeper questions: How do military ideas originate, and how do they establish themselves inside the staffs and organizations that plan for and undertake their implementation? How do expectations affect the way information is perceived and interpreted, and how do these perceptions and interpretations then shape plans, policies, and campaigns? How ro- bust are ideas, once established, and why do they often seem resistant to new information that does not support them?  The development of aircraft in the early part of the twentieth century posed a problem of great significance to the military planners of all modern st