Americans over the other’s ap- proach to strategic bombing sometimes emerged in staff memoranda and in public discourse. For instance, a May 1941 letter from the Direc- tor of the Air Corps Board to the Chief of the Air Corps complained that the British “lack appreciation of the value of accuracy in bomb- ing,” and that they had made no “material effort . . . to determine and use effective methods of bombing.”'* The American press, which had made American bombsights a symbol of American technical prowess, and had helped to convince the public that American bombers could drop their ordnance into a “pickle barrel,” was often critical of highly inaccurate early British efforts. Equally, the British press decried the meager results, in the summer and autumn of 1942, of the highly touted American “precision” bombing force. Peter Masefield, writing in the Sunday Times (London) even before the first raid was flown, argued  RHETORIC AND REALITY, 1939-1942 213  that the B-17 and B-24 were not suited to daylight operations in Eu- rope.'® The U.S. Air Staff reacted promptly and aggressively. As the American official historians explained, “a good deal of special pleading was done in behalf of precision techniques, and comparisons were sometimes drawn to the disadvantage of the British doctrine.”'® Indeed, an American study of British bombing at Rostock, Cologne, and Os- nabruck, dated 19 October 1942, went so far that General Eaker had to distance himself from its conclusions in an effort at alliance damage control. The study asserted that British area bombing was unreliable and inefficient, and that “precision” bombing of selected targets would provide greater results through concentration of effort.'*  Despite the disappointments, setbacks, and bickering, however, both the British and American air forces maintained a gritty optimism. Largely undaunted by the gap between prewar promises and wartime results to date, the leaders of both forces figured that success would be a mat