y and August revealed that the wastage rate increased by 2.5 times the flying rate. Indeed, while Trenchard lost twenty-one aircraft over German lines in August, he lost another fifty-four—a staggering num- ber by any account—on the British side of the lines."” In mid-October, Tiverton’s Air Staff colleague Lt. Col. J. Gammell pointed out that in September, 44 percent of the IF’s total machines had crashed on the British side of the lines. Adding this to the thirty-seven machines lost over enemy territory, he explained that in only eleven flying days and twelve flying nights, Trenchard had lost 81 percent of his total establish- ment. Both McClelland and Gammell strongly suspected problems of organization and management in Trenchard’s force.'™ In the last eigh- teen months of the war, RFC/RAF wastage was so high (51 percent per month on average) that every airplane had to be replaced once every eight weeks.’ For his part, Trenchard thought he was making the best use of his assets. He believed in the idea of victory through the “relent- less offensive,” and showed contempt for air units (in the RNAS for instance) that displayed what he termed a “lack of ginger.”'”*  Tt is unlikely that the IF’s preoccupation with railway targets gave results proportional to cost, and the effort expended on enemy air- dromes—undertaken to reduce the enemy’s toll on British aircraft— came to represent a circular activity that consumed substantial re- sources to little or no avail. Because the IF’s scattered long-range attacks lacked impact, they did little real damage to German industrial output. A modern calculation by the Canadian official historian S. F. Wise con- cluded that damage inflicted on German industry by Allied bombing amounted to a total of only 15,380,000 reichsmarks, or less than one- tenth of 1 percent of German war expenditure.'” More recently, a scholar of German aviation concluded, “The expense of the RAF’s de- stroyed aircraft exceeded the cost of the damage it inf