mities being visited on them Moreover, there seems to have been some general impatience with the glowing accounts appearing in the British press about the invariable success of the bombing raids. At the very least, there was very little echo of the romanticism of Rupert Brooke and other British servicemen in World War I concerning the nobility of the cause. Indeed the largest impression one has of the attitude of Bomber Command aircrew toward their role was a pervasive fatalism and even melancholy. An RAF fighter pilot recalled how Bomber Command aircrew conducted themselves just prior to a raid on Berlin. [There were] a hundred or more young men, who walked silently and unsmiling to their allotted aircraft. Accustomed as I had already become to the gaiety and laughter of fighter pilots, I was distressed by the tense bearing and drawn faces of the bomber crews. At that time, late in November, 1943, some eighty per cent were failing to complete unscathed their tours of thirty operations. Of course they had plenty, but there was nothing but lip-biting gloom registered on those faces. 37 In doing so, they revealed that they were, after all, basically only a group of very young men thrust into a macabre situation. After parties away from the base, for example, they typically brought back such schoolboy trophies as toilet seats and street signs. Their essential innocence was also reflected in various aircrew rituals, such as the dropping of empty beer bottles from aircraft during raids over Germany (they made a noise that upset the "bystanders" beneath). Some crews urinated communally on their plane's tail wheel before taking off, as a talisman against danger; others did so on returning, as a thanksgiving for having survived.38 To suggest that the aircrew were essentially resigned to their roles as technicians of violence may provide a mixture of satisfaction and dismay to moral critics of British area bombing. On the one hand, it exculpates the fliers from the grosser c