ipment and training. Nevertheless, if the leaders of Bomber Command cannot be dismissed as simply donkeys, it remains that those at High Wycombe-and their political masters as well- demonstrated a rather striking degree of detachment about the many and varied criticisms that were levied at their activities.43 They plowed ahead with the area offensive in a seeming inability to conceive of or at least insist on alternatives, although several lay at hand. There is more here as well, and it is reflected in a rather extraordinary reminiscence from Air Marshall Sir Robert Saundby, deputy to Arthur Harris In discussing the attack on Dresden, he mused that the destruction of the city was one of those terrible things that sometimes happen in wartime, brought about by an unfortunate combination of circumstances. Those who approved it were neither wicked nor cruel, though it may well be that they were too remote from the harsh realities of war to understand fully the appalling destructive power of air bombardment in the spring of 1945.44 unfortunate combination of circumstances"), and the comment that those who nevertheless approved it may have been too "remote" from reality in 1945 to understand what 1,000 Lancasters over Dresden could do. This after three years of the area offensive. If taken at face value, such ignorance of the effects of area bombing really shows a rather remarkable inattention to detail. What it may show even more is how the pristine atmosphere at High Wycombe and in Whitehall tended to shield the decision-makers from having to face the real human consequences of what they were ordering. Of course, they could have explored these consequences if they so desired, but it evidently never occurred to them to do so. Perhaps they even doubted the relevance of attempting to do so. War and Democracy There is a long-held theory that democracies are slow to anger but, once aroused, notably violent and ruthless in their waging of war. The underlying logic is that dem