ns in wartime tend to be spared quibbles about the doubtful elements in their success; it is enough that they have achieved victory. One recalls President John F. Kennedy's mordant comment after the Bay of Pigs fiasco that "victory has a hundred fathers but defeat is an orphan." If Bomber Command had been able to force a German surrender prior to the D-Day invasion-which Arthur Harris held out as a possibility-the air campaign over Germany would likely be regarded as a masterpiece of military strategy, and the moral queries of the critics would have been consigned to obscurity. As it turned out, the area offensive did seem to be both a crime and a mistake. The fact of the latter made many considerably less tolerant of the former. Such toleration was also no doubt lessened by the consistent exaggeration. one might say arrogance, with which the spokesmen for Bomber Command presented their strategic theories. As Max Hastings says, "If the airmen had pitched their demands for resources, their own hopes and their subsequent claims more modestly, history might have judged them more kindly."25 Even after all the evidence was in, Arthur Harris, for one, continued to drum away on the same tired theme. In his memoirs, he argues that "it is an obvious and most certain conclusion that if we had had the force we used in 1944 a year earlier, and if we had then been allowed to use it together with the whole American bomber force. and without interruption, Germany would have been defeated outright by bombing .... We were only prevented from having that force by the fact that the Allied war leaders did not have enough faith in strategic bombing."26 It is easy enough to suggest here that Bomber Command in reality commanded an enormous share of the available military resources and still failed in its avowed 199 purpose. The real point is that such obstinacy removed any inclination to give Harris and his supporters the benefit of the doubt after the war. Since they were so obviously wr