WELLIANS In May 1942, Mr. Geoffrey Shakespeare, Liberal MP for Norwich, wrote a letter to Sir Archibald Sinclair setting out his views on the bombing of Germany. "I am all for the bombing of working class areas of German cities," he informed Sinclair. "I am Cromwellian-I believe in 'slaying in the name of the Lord," because I do not believe you will ever bring home to the civil population of Germany the horrors of war until they have been tested in this way."10 Yet there was often a darker note to the Cromwellian case, quite aside from these utilitarian calculations. At times the rhetoric seemed to imply that not only was area bombing militarily justified in itself but perhaps it was especially justified given the "character" of the German people. There is no way to get around this theme except to say that, at the very least, it carried the suggestion of racism. Even Churchill himself, celebrated by many for his compassion and generosity toward a defeated enemy, was not immune to this temptation. In April 1941 he offered the sociological observation that "there are less than seventy million malignant Huns- some of whom are curable and others killable."11 The crucial premise here seemed to be that there was essentially no difference between the German people and the Nazi regime itself. Since the latter was universally regarded as a pariah by civilized opinion, it was only a short step to the argument that German society itself was also an outcast among mankind. Given this attitude, there was no need to shed tears about any calamity that might befall it. Indeed, there was a lot to be said for the argument that such a society deserved to experience some calamity. Perhaps the leading British voice arguing that the German people were somehow tainted by original sin was that of Sir Robert Vansittart, who was a veteran of the Foreign Office and one of the principal men arguing for a firm policy against Hitler in the late 1930s. Vansittart was still chief diplo- matic advis