paign against German cities was a military necessity. There is an equally powerful case to be made against the idea of military necessity if we can demonstrate that, even given the British emphasis on airpower, the capabilities of Bomber Command were badly misused. The evidence, in fact, does strongly suggest that not only did Bomber Command absorb a disproportionate share of British resources but that this outlay of personnel and materiel could have been employed far more effectively. In the earlier period of the war, to cite only two examples, a greater commitment to the anti-U-Boat campaign in the North Atlantic would have paid signifi- cant dividends as would have a more substantial effort in North Africa (conceivably resulting in the defeat of Rommel's Afrika Korps some months before its actual demise). The grip that Bomber Command had on British output of materiel, and the subsequent feeding of Arthur Harris's belief that Bomber Command held the key to success in the war against the Nazis, may perhaps be seen in Harris's memorandum of December 7, 1943, to the Air Ministry. Harris argued that there was "little doubt" that the Germans would capitulate once 40 to 50 percent of their principal towns were destroyed. He went on to estimate that given an  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 172 173 The Test of Experience The issue of operational alternatives becomes particularly acute, how- ever, in the last ten months of the war. A military historian and former RAF navigator summarizes the case this way: [The] strategic bomber forces had the possibility of bringing the German war machine to a dead halt, and it seems reasonable to suppose that they could have done so within 1944. By April 1945 they had done so. Their operations were decisive. They could have been decisive earlier. .. . After the middle of 1944 there was often, though not always, a choice between area attacks on towns and precise attacks on oil plants, railway targets and other installations. Owing to