e. In the early days of the Vietnam War, for example, it was common for the South Vietnamese army to call in artillery or an air strike on a village in response to a single sniper shot from the hamlet. American adviser John Paul Vann strongly objected to this practice. He did so partly on pragmatic grounds, which was that such actions alienated the peasants and swelled the The whole debate concerning Allied bombing strategy in the occupied countries raises a fairly important question. From an ethical standpoint, is  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 156 uo ranks of the Viet Cong. But he also offered a moral argument. Vann said that infantry should simply be sent in to find and kill the sniper. "If they did that," Vann admitted, "they would lose a soldier to a sniper every once in a while, but death was the risk of an infantryman's trade."37 This seems a hard standard to accept, particularly from the point of view of those effected (one's own soldiers), but to abandon it would seem to remove any limits on the scale and type of legitimate violence in wartime. There is something more here as well, and it is suggested by Vann's objections to the shelling of Vietnamese hamlets. Even if one takes the position that the only reasonable standard of conduct in war is what will gain victory most "cheaply"-effectively defined as the fewest casualties to one's own forces-it is often very difficult to know what a "cheap" policy would actually be. The indiscriminate killing of Vietnamese civilians, for example. likely made that particular conflict much longer, and much more costly, than a more measured strategy would have done, even if individual soldiers' lives were spared on particular occasions by the shelling and bombing. Moreover there is a great deal of evidence (to be considered shortly) that the British concentration on area rather than precision bombing actually prolonged rather than shortened World War II. Since it is often difficult to demonstrate that a particular ac