n that British airpower could be much more effectively deployed against the German U-Boat menace (particularly in the critical years 1942-1943). Blackett by this time was scientific adviser to the Admiralty and not unnaturally tended to adopt their view of the appropriate allocation of British resources. Blackett's conscience may have been troubled by some of the more extreme manifes- tations of the area offensive, but on balance his criticism of this effort was largely utilitarian. His moral disagreement (to the extent that it existed) with others in the scientific community was at the margins, not at the center. In assessing the relationship, moral and pragmatic, between the boffins and the application of British air power in World War II, there is a certain irony that deserves at least brief mention. The moral critic may be tempted to dwell on the abdication of ethical responsibility on the part of the scientists with respect to the area offensive. But a constant refrain in studies of the boffins' influence on air strategy is the difficulty they had, at least initially, in getting the airmen to take them seriously. As one writer puts it, "they had to persuade men who were responsible for ordering, and for doing, dangerous and difficult tasks, that these tasks would be less dangerous and less difficult if the implications of objective figures were considered and acted upon."25 An early example of this tension came in the summer and fall of 1941, when scientists actually tried to measure the accuracy of the bombing that had heretofore been undertaken. Cameras were installed in the bombers so that photographs could be taken at the time of the bombs' release in order to establish exactly what was being hit. As R. V. Jones-an important figure in the boffin community and a scientific officer on the staff of the Air Ministry-recalls, "this aroused much resentment among the aircrew, who thought that the Air Staff must doubt whether they had actually gone in to attack the