f of the Air Staff for the RAF. Trenchand waged an untiring campaign to obtain what he considered adequate support for his airmen and even more to fight off the doubts of the more senior services about the necessity of their being a continued independent British air force. Trenchard views were perhaps best summarized in a memorandum to the other service chiefs in May 1928.9 He put his case directly: "It is not necessary for an air force in order to defeat the enemy nation, to defeat its armed forces first. Air power can dispense with that intermediate step ... and attack directly the centreso production, transportation and communication from which the enemy war effort is maintained." Trenchard envisioned his bombing campaign as actually having two fundamental purposes: to destroy the enemy's technical capacity for contin- uing the war effort, and to undermine his will for doing so. On the latter point he put the "moral" effects of bombing as more important than the physical effects by a factor of 20:1. Trenchard did accept that it was "contrary to the dictates of humanity [to engage in] the indiscriminate bombing of a city for the sole purpose of terrorizing the civilian population." On the other hand, he regarded it as entirely legitimate to terrorize munitions workers into ceasing their work or stevedores to stop loading arms onto ships. "Moral effect," he said, "is created by the bombing in such circumstances but it is the inevitable result of a lawful operation of war-the bombing of a military objective." Put in this way, many later critics of British bombing policy in World War II would have been forced to nod assent. The question was to be, however, how the concept of a military objective was subject to elaboration and expansion as the air offensive evolved. Sir Hugh Trenchard's confident predictions about the effect of a modern strategic bombing campaign was hardly translated into a commitment of resources to the RAF at the time by his superiors in the Britis