ombing strategy, and Sinclair was ill-suited as a general matter to exercise control over strong personalities. Yet none of this gainsays the fact that Harris was ultimately only a tool, ordered to-or allowed to-conduct a quite indiscriminate air offensive against Germany that was in violation not only of the traditional norms of war but, even more, of the traditional norms of civilized society that Britain laid proud claim to represent. Harris's sin was one of commission, but the others was ultimately one of omission, and it is difficult to think that the former was more reprehensible than the latter.  3 The Servants of the Realm "Be men first and subjects afterwards." -Henry David Thoreau We have analyzed personalities and institutions who had direct power of command in the British area offensive against Germany. In an enterprise of this sort, however, there are many others whose biographies-and participa- tion-present issues for consideration. The focus here is on two groups of individuals who were outside the inner circle of decision-making but whose roles in the area bombing offensive were nevertheless of great importance. One of them was involved in calculations about how to drop the bombs most efficiently; the other was involved in dropping the bombs. THE BOFFINS At first glance, the credentials of Professor Freeman Dyson would seem to make him a fairly typical representative of the fabled military-industrial complex. Born and raised in England, he came to Cornell University in 1947 as a Commonwealth Fellow. He subsequently decided to settle permanently in the United States, and in 1953 he took a position as professor of physics at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. In the years since, he has consulted at various times for the Defense Depart- ment, and has worked as a member of Jason, which, as Dyson describes it, is a "group of scientists who work on technical problems for the Depart- ment of Defense and other agencies of the American government.