s of the RAF in daytime. Shortly after September 15, he further directed that all preparations for the invasion be suspended. His mind now became increasingly focused on the coming campaign against Russia. In assessing the situation facing Britain in February 1942, then, one might suggest that since any realistic threat of invasion had vanished, so had the specter of supreme emergency. There is still more to the argument, however. The critic might note that even though Britain was at this point free from the peril of actual military occupation, it was questionable how long she could maintain herself in the face of German control of the Continent. Might not her isolated position eventually result in the erosion of her capacity to resist Nazi pressure? In meeting this objection, reference can be made to perhaps the most important week of the entire war, which occurred at the beginning of December 1941. On December 5, the Soviets launched a major counter- offensive in the environs of Moscow which threw back the Wehrmacht from the gates of the city and inflicted the first major defeat of the war on German ground forces. The success of this offensive insured that Hitler's dream of a quick conquest of Soviet Russia in 1941 would prove unavailing. Two days later, on December 7, Japan attacked the United States at Pearl Harbor, which brought the Americans into the war not only against Tokyo but, three days later, against the Germans as well. At the dawn of 1942, therefore, it appeared that Russia had survived, the vast might of the Americans was now engaged and the entire strategic situation had been dramatically transformed. Under the circumstances, the only supreme emergency that loomed was the one the Germans would face sooner or later. Winston Churchill himself happily assessed the entirely changed position: So we had won after all! . .. In dire stress, we had won the war. England would live; Britain would live; the Commonwealth of Nations and the Empire would live. ...