use violence, not even that they use violence legitimized by virtue of their function as instruments of the state. It is that they use that violence with great deliberation. Such violence purposeful, deliberate, and legitimized is normally known as force, and the use of force between states is what we mean by war. War consists of such deliberate controlled, and purposeful acts of force combined and harmonized to attain what are ultimately political objectives. ... To control and limit the conduct of war is thus not inherently impossible. Indeed without controls and limitations war cannot be conducted at all.7 The key challenge here is to define what are meant by "political objectives," the preservation or expansion of which are the fundamental goal of warfare. Such objectives may be defined in relatively concrete economic or geopolitical terms, but any reasonable definition must also include the moral values of the nation, its sense of self-worth, and some times even the welfare of the international community more generally From this perspective, the manner in which a war is conducted bears an intimate relationship to those ends that the fighting is designed to serve that is to say, its "political" objectives. Winston Churchill himself appeared 135 (at least at times) to recognize the truth of this proposition. When pressed in the House of Commons in January 1945 about the doubtful aspects of the unconditional surrender formula being presented to Germany, he shouted that this did not mean the Allies meant to "exterminate or trample on the German people. ... Not at all. We remain bound by our own customs and our own nature."8 Presumably this was a suggestion that the "customs and nature" of the British people forbade them from undertaking certain measures that other less civilized societies might contemplate. A bizarre episode at the Teheran Conference in November 1943 provides an example of Churchill's sensitivity on this point. Stalin suggested at one point that th