e a legitimate military target. The truth of this observation might be seen in a bizarre conversation the American journalist Neil Sheehan had with the commander of American forces in Vietnam, General William Westmoreland. Sheehan asked Westmoreland "if he was worried about the large number of civilian casualties from the air strikes and the shelling." The general looked at him carefully and then replied, "Yes, Neil, it is a problem, but it does deprive the enemy of the population, doesn't it?"3 Westmoreland's appalling comment was really only a restatement of Lord Cherwell's argument about the beneficial effects of dehousing German workers in World War II (not to mention the more general theory of attacking German morale). In some ways, one can even admire Westmoreland's lack of pretense. He was bold enough to argue that simply killing lots of civilians had its own military rationale. That premise was also implicit in Lord Cherwell's defense of area bombing, but he chose to mask the logic of his analysis by resorting to euphemisms about workers temporarily without shelter. The most obvious connection between the phenomenon of strategic bombing in World War II and military doctrine in the postwar world, however, has had to do with nuclear weapons and in particular theories of nuclear deterrence. It is not too much to say that much nuclear targeting policy was simply area bombing writ large. For a number of years American, and presumably British, policy was to deter the Soviet Union by the threat of massive devastation of Soviet cities. There did come to be a greater emphasis in the latter stages of the Cold War on so-called counter-force  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 204 uou Final Reflections strategy, in which nuclear weapons would be directed toward relatively traditional military targets such as airfields, command-and-control centers, missile silos, and so forth. Even here, however, the degree of collateral damage (that is, destruction of civilians) that w