lly, Liddell Hart assumed that the anti-Nazi opposition in Germany was a serious factor that. if given the proper encouragement, might prove decisive in changing Ger- man leadership and thus Berlin's war aims. These assumptions taken together led him to suggest that a compromise peace with the German government was a distinct possibility once the high tide of German conquest had passed. Even a government led by Hitler might be persuaded of the virtues of a return to the status quo. Failing this, an alternative German regime could be dealt with on the basis of traditional European security arrangements. Such convictions naturally led Liddell Hart into opposition to a military strategy that had as a prime objective the progressive devastation of German society and institutions. On the one hand. he saw such a program as undermining the prospects for a compromise peace either with Hitler or a successor regime. Even more, he viewed the effective elimination of Germany as a factor in the European power balance as something that would invite Soviet domination of the Continent once the war was ended. The latter analysis, at least in hindsight, seems fairly perceptive. Perhaps the same cannot be said perhaps for some of his other arguments: the evidence that Hitler was a "traditional" European statesman was particularly problematical. The point for present purposes is that, given his views on the character of German strategy, Liddell Hart was predisposed to regard the area offensive as actually counterproductive to Allied interests. This was especially so since British policy seemed to be directed not so much at a discrete foreign threat-in the mode of earlier challenges such as that presented by Louis XIV or Napoleon-as at the very capacity of the German people to wield a role in European politics. The policy of unconditional surrender was a particular bête noire to Liddell Hart in this sense. It should be noted in passing that Liddell Hart was not the only military histori