r dissent in Britain during World War II was in some ways  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 102 103 The Subjects of the Realm noticeably more tolerant than during the first great war. One significant reflection of this fact was the attitude toward conscientious objectors. In World War I, three out of ten were sent to prison for their beliefs. In the period 1939-1945 only 3 out of a 100 were treated so. Almost 60,000 people registered as conscientious objectors (four times the number in World War I), and of this number only one-fifth were rejected as insincere and thus liable to the draft. Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain had set the tone even before war had broken out. In introducing the Act of 1939, which brought back conscription, he said that "where scruples are conscientiously held we desire that they should be respected and that there should be no persecution of those who hold them."29 Several years later, the Home Secretary, Herbert Morri- son, was queried in the House of Commons as to whether it might not be time to suppress the Bombing Restriction Committee, among whose mem- bers were a number of conscientious objectors and pacifists. Morrison responded that "if people sincerely hold the view that bombing should be abolished or restricted, I cannot see that it is terrible to say so." Morrison did go on to assure the House that they should not be unduly concerned since there was "no danger that the bombing will leave off, anyway."30 Contributing to this generally permissive atmosphere for public protest against the doings of Bomber Command was the fact that the British society as a whole appeared unreceptive to the grosser types of anti-German propa- ganda fostered during the first war. We have already discussed how Vansittartism, for example, never caught on with the majority of people, with its implication that the German civilian "deserved" everything that was delivered to him. As Mass Observation (a leading opinion survey) observed. "Few people think