gainst Germany. Sir Charles Portal was a man in whom Churchill reposited a great deal of trust and confidence; moreover, Portal had served as head of Bomber Command himself. Given this background, Portal was perhaps uniquely placed to deal with Harris's vagaries and, when it came to that, to ask for Harris's resignation, most notably when he effectively defied the Combined Joint Chiefs' directives on the air offensive in the fall of 1944. In the event as we have detailed, Portal never felt compelled-or perhaps able-to force a showdown with his ostensible subordinate. That Portal would shrink from an ultimate confrontation with Harris might have been anticipated from his passive performance at the time of the Casablanca affair, in which Harris quite clearly "misinterpreted" his instructions from the Combined Chiefs of Staff. At that time, Portal simply allowed Harris to proceed without offering any amending of the record, gentle or otherwise. As one writer puts it. "Portal's position was anomalous; through his own Air Staff he could theoretically issue guide-lines for the prosecution of the offensive but he never chose or saw any need to do so." An even more blunt assessment was that "Harris's strength lay in his ability to defy Portal, the principal channel of communication with High Wycombe."69 59 In accounting for this seeming withdrawal in the face of Harris's insubordination, it would appear that Portal was moved by several of the same considerations as the Prime Minister. He regarded the chief of Bomber Command as extremely effective in inspiring the efforts of the aircrew. Portal also was hardly immune to the political considerations that swayed Churchill. Harris had assumed an almost mythical reputation with much of British public opinion by 1943, although any objective evaluation would have suggested that this reputation hardly rested on concrete achievements by Bomber Command. Very few people at the time, how- ever, had any clear sense of the actual results