or 67 of Operational Research at the Admiralty, mentioned an error on the order of six). Essentially, Tizard doubted that enough bombers would be avail- able to dehouse the Germans in sufficient numbers, and he questioned the accuracies that could be achieved by the bombers that were available. As it turned out, both Tizard and Blackett were off in their own calculations: Cherwell's minute was in error by a factor of ten. In many ways Lord Cherwell's personality mirrored that of Sir Arthur Harris himself. Modesty, self-doubt, a sense of humor, and a willingness to consider the views of others, especially subordinates, were all traits that he found foreign and even incomprehensible. As one description had it, "the had time for a few physicists and a few peers, but regarded most of the human race as furry little animals."7 Tizard, by contrast, was regarded by virtually everyone as gentlemanly, witty, and self-effacing to a fault. This may partly account for the impression that has lingered over the years that the clash between the two man was essentially one between the former's brutal insensitivity to death and destruction and the latter's humanistic concerns about undue death and destruction. In reality, their argument seems to have been more about the basic allocation of men and materiel than the ethical implications of area bombing. Tizard even wrote to Cherwell that "I should like to make it clear that I don't disagree funda- mentally with the bombing policy."8 Where he did disagree with Cherwell was on the question of whether, in terms of the overall war effort, it made sense to give Bomber Command such a high percentage of the available resources. Tizard was convinced that a commitment to other areas, e.g., the campaign against the U-Boats and tactical support of the ground forces, would pay greater dividends.9 Tizard, in fact, emerges as being as tough-minded in his own way as was Cherwell. One of the chief students of the bomber offensive stresses that at thi