fied as any other operation of war. Here I will only say that the attack on Dresden was at the time considered a military necessity by much more important people than myself, and that if their judgment was right the same arguments must apply that I have set out in an earlier chapter in which I said what I think about the ethics of bombing as a whole.41  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 42 The Masters of the Realm His comments on Hamburg, to be sure, may not be very convincing to critics of area bombing. Its basic thrust is that an earlier outrage against a civilian population makes subsequent outrages-provided that they are no greater in scope-justifiable. One is also struck by the fact that after these moral rumina- tions, which comprise a total of three paragraphs, Harris without further ado resumes a discussion of technical details in German air defenses following Hamburg. Moreover, in the immediate aftermath of the Dresden bombing, Harris was somewhat less careful in his remarks. In responding to criticism about the destruction of the city, he offered the following: "The feeling, such as there is over Dresden could be easily explained by any psychiatrist. It is connected with to German bands and Dresden shepherdesses." Sir John Colville, an aide Churchill, recalls as well that when he met Harris at a dinner party at Chequers shortly after the Dresden attack, and asked him about the effects of the raid, Harri responded: "Dresden? There is no place such as Dresden." Clearly Harris was not very comfortable with disquisitions on the subtle ties of moral philosophy. Yet to expect such a sensitivity in a wartime operational commander is expecting a lot, and perhaps expecting too much Moreover, there is a question whether one would really want a major military figure to have such a mindset. It is hard to envision someone being able, on a daily basis, to make the sort of brutal decisions involving life and death that Harris was charged with if at the same time he con