n the fiction that such was possible, but the evidence as it accumulated seriously undermined their case and was dealt a particular blow by the so-called Butt Report of August 1941. At the behest of Lord Cherwell, Churchill's principal scientific adviser, Mr. D. M. Butt of the Cabinet Secretariate undertook a systematic study of the efforts of Bomber Command to date. His analysis revealed that in British air strikes against specific targets in the Ruhr, only one-tenth of the bombers even found their way to within five miles of the assigned target. For other areas the figure was Still, it would be somewhat misleading to suggest that those involved simply, and rather mindlessly, adopted area bombing without thought as to its practical military utility and only because it was the one thing Bomber Command could do. There were in fact attempts by those in authority to develop a broader strategic rationale for area bombing beyond simply the limitations that Bomber Command then confronted. Lord Cherwell was a particular contributor to this process, and his ideas reflected one of the standard themes of the prewar airpower theorists. In a famous minute to the Prime Minister on March 30, 1942, Cherwell concentrated on the impact on German morale of a major British area bombing campaign. Based on his analysis of the German bombing of British cities, he argued that "having one's house demolished is most damaging to morale. People seem to mind it more than having their friends or even relatives killed." He went on from there to estimate that with adequate resources and by concentrating on the 58 major German population centers, Bomber Command could by 1943 render a third of the German people homeless. "There seems little doubt that this would break the spirit of the people." The concept of the shattering of the German people's morale, and thus of Germany's will or ability to continue the war, was enshrined henceforth as one of the guiding premises of British bombing policy. As t