e initiative against the enemy. Since that time we have had an enormous access of support from the Russian armies . . . and also from the great potential strength of the United States of America. Naturally, in such circumstances the original policy has come under review. . . . I can assure the House that the Government are fully aware of the other uses to which our resources could be put, and the moment they arrive at a decision that the circumstances warrant a change, a change in policy will be made.27 It is more than a little interesting to ponder the consequences of a larger share of British arms production being given to the other services rather than to Bomber Command. What if, for example, additional effort had been given to the building of landing craft for amphibious operations, the scarcity of which was a major deterrent to an earlier invasion of France? We have already observed that as a consequence of giving first priority to supplying the RAF (and particularly Bomber Command) with its supposed needs, Britain was forced to purchase almost all of its transport aircraft, as well as a high percentage of its tanks and huge amounts of ammunition, from the United States. The basic fact is that there was no actual compulsion upon the British government to go all out in building up the strategic bomber force; there were ample opportunities in other areas of the war effort for (perhaps better) use of such resources. Cripps's comments were not received very kindly at High Wycombe and for obvious reasons. In any case it is important to recognize what an extraordinary share of British wartime production was devoted to her air force. As of 1942, the RAF's bill for capital works alone was equal to about one-sixth of the total national budget for all purposes, civilian and military, in a typical prewar year. One estimate is that Britain assigned anywhere from 40 to 50 percent of her military output to the RAF, which meant that only 50 to 60 percent was left for the navy