he feet And soaking to the bone, down to the very heart. 32 How to explain the psychological strengths that sustained what otherwise might seem an irrational commitment? How could R. V. Jones say (evidently quite accurately) that "morale never faltered"? Enlistment in Bomber Com- mand, after all, was entirely voluntary-for most it would have been much safer to go to sea or join the Eighth Army. Part of the explanation lies in the esprit de corps fostered by Arthur Harris, which convinced his personnel that Bomber Command was the elite service of the war. As one former Flight Sergeant said of Harris, "We had all the confidence in the world in his strategy. We felt that we and we alone in Bomber Command were winning the war."33 It was also true that for much of the war, for those eager to have a direct role in fighting the Germans, Bomber Command seemed to be the one service that was engaged in continual day-to-day combat with the Nazi regime. Once one joined Bomber Command, moreover, there was consider- able pressure to stick it out and, above all, not to let one's fellow aircrew How did the aircrew of Bomber Command deal with the fact that they were in effect reversing a basic principle of civilized warfare, that is to say, the distinction between combatant and non-combatant? In plainer English, how did they react to having to drop bombs night after night on German civilians, even if the targets were technically "military" in nature? Conflict and Conscience In examining the evidence on this matter, a rather complex and in some ways surprising picture seems to emerge. There was, for the most part, seemingly little revenge motive in persuading aircrew to continue their work. When we recall that the Nazis had earlier attacked British cities, that they were widely recognized to have committed all sorts of crimes, and that many in Britain (including at times the Prime Minister himself) seemed to draw no distinction between the Nazi regime and the German people as a whole