tartism and described as hysterical the notion that the Germans were the butcher-birds of history. She felt that such racial stereotyping made it far easier for the British government to adopt a policy of systematic destruction of German cities. 123 There were some problematical aspects of Vera Brittain's attitude toward the German threat. Even she admitted that her old friend Bertrand Russell had abandoned his pacifism of World War I because he saw Hitler as a unique threat that could only be defeated militarily. Brittain seemed unable to go this far, and, moreover, tended to downplay evidence of Nazi atrocities. Early in the war she discounted stories about concentration camps as propaganda by the British government to justify bombing policy. Even when evidence on the Holocaust became undeniable with the entry of Allied troops into Germany in 1945, Brittain felt that accounts of the concentration camps were perhaps being emphasized to assuage the guilt that many in Britain felt about the destruction of German cities. In an analysis that even her admirers might find troubling, she demanded to know "what essential moral difference divided the murder of prisoners in concentration camps from the incineration of refugees in Dresden?"62 Throughout the war Vera Brittain attempted to rouse the conscience of the British people to the moral issues raised by area bombing through her lectures, writings, and a host of other activities. A principal focus of her efforts was the Bombing Restriction Committee (BRC), which was formed in the spring of 1941 by the Quaker T. Corder Catchpool and whose declared purpose was "to urge the Government to stop violating their declared policy of bombing only military objectives and particularly to cease causing the death of many thousands of civilians in their homes." Typical of its efforts was a pamphlet produced in 1943 entitled Stop Bombing Civilians. Questions were raised in the House of Commons about the government's willingness to provi