f achievement to drop bombs on German cities."56 The veterans of Bomber Command were, in any case, confronted after 1945 with a level of moral condemnation of area bombing that had been generally absent during the struggle itself. As we have already recounted, they received no Campaign Medal, and the general attitude of many-both in the government and outside-seemed to be that it would be best to forget their activities as quickly as possible. This ex post facto implied (and often outright) censure can hardly One night after I had visited a much-decorated pilot in the north of England in the course of writing this book, he drove me to the station. Suddenly turning to me in the car, he asked: 'Has anybody else mentioned having nightmares about it?' He said that in the past ten years he had been troubled by increasingly vivid and terrible dreams about his experiences over Germany. A teacher by profession, he had thought nothing of the war for years afterwards. Then a younger generation of his colleagues began to ask with repetitive, inquisitive distaste: 'How could you have done it? How could you have flown over Germany night after night to bomb women and children?' He began to brood more and more deeply about his past. He changed his job and started to teach mentally-handicapped children, which he sees as a kind of restitution. Yet still, more than thirty years after, his memories of the war haunt him.57 The reality seems to be that some in Bomber Command ultimately became casualties of the war just as much as their comrades who suffered more conventional injuries in missions over Germany.  4 The Subjects of the Realm "It is not always the same thing to be a good man and a good citizen." -Aristotle In the summer of 1944, a certain Mr. John Brophy, a writer then serving in the Home Guard, wrote a remonstrative letter to his good friend Captain Basil Liddell Hart, the distinguished British military historian. Brophy was particularly aroused by Liddell Hart's argument t