uly 8, 1940 (in a minute to which we have already referred), that 47 when I look around to see how we can win the war I see that there is only one sure path. We have no Continental Army which can defeat the German military power. The blockade is broken and Hitler has Asia and probably Africa to draw from. Should he be repulsed here or not try invasion, he will recoil eastward, and we have nothing to stop him. But there is one thing that will bring him back and bring him down, and that is an absolutely devastating, exterminating attack by very heavy bombers from this country upon the Nazi homeland. We must be able to overwhelm him by this means, without which I do not see a way through.51 Such a drastic analysis, particularly its reference to "exterminating" attacks on Germany, would seem to represent a full conversion of Churchill from his earlier skepticism to a full-fledged acceptance of the Trenchard doctrine of the strategic air offensive. Yet some considerable confusion about Churchill's real position remains. It is important to emphasize that the above analysis was offered at a time when, as Churchill noted, there was literally no other military alternative apparently available for prosecuting the war effort. To downplay the potential of British air power would be, in effect, to admit that there was no possibility of defeating the Germans. That Churchill at this point was rather desperately searching for ways to carry on the war effort is also reflected in the fact that he issued authorization for the widespread use of mustard gas and other toxins against German troops on the beaches should they attempt an invasion of Great Britain. By the fall of 1941, however, the overall strategic situation had changed appreciably. The threat of a German invasion of Britain had evidently ended and instead the German armed forces were now embroiled in a titanic struggle with the Russians in the East. Moreover, the United States, while still ostensibly a neutral, was providin