ystem in France and the Low Countries prior to D-Day.14 Not surprisingly, Arthur Harris was dismissive of this scheme. He wrote to Portal in January 1944 that "it is clear that the best and indeed the only efficient support which Bomber Command can give to Overlord is the intensification of attacks on suitable industrial centres in Germany." If his aircrew were diverted from such targets, Harris concluded, and forced to concentrate on panaceas such as the German railway network, "this might give the specious appearance of 'supporting' the Army [but] in reality it would be the greatest disservice we could do them. It would lead directly to disaster."15 In the event, Harris's plea for a continuation of the area offensive was turned aside by Allied planners. There was little confidence that area bombing could prove decisive in the few months remaining before D-Day, and what came to be called the Transportation Plan thus received an im- primatur as the basic Allied air strategy leading up to the invasion. Hearts and Minds In view of Solly Zuckerman's role in the adoption of the Transportation Plan, and the rejection (for the time being) of continued area attacks on German cities, he might seem to be a reassuring figure to those searching for a general  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 70 71 The Servants of the Realm moral uneasiness among the boffins concerning the policy of area bombing. His constant stress on precision air strikes would seem at the least to suggest a certain queasiness about the indiscriminate slaughter of civilians that was at the heart of the area offensive. Zuckerman's putative role as a moral critic of area bombing might seem to be established as well by some of his later writings, in particular a small volume which he published in 1983, in which he dismissed any notion that a limited nuclear war might be winnable or even conceivable. He paid tribute to E. P. Thompson, at the time the leader of the movement for unilateral nuclear disarmament in