ct in wartime that should be accepted and recognized by well-meaning statesmen even in the absence of coercion to make them follow such standards, and what initial assessment can be made about the area bombing of Germany in these terms? The Legal Question At the outset we ought to give brief attention to a legal assertion sometimes presented in moral garb. It is a commonplace that legal standards may (and should) reflect generally accepted moral principles, yet there are instances where they seem to bear little relationship to such norms. In the case of the area bombing of Germany, some supporters of that strategy have attempted to sketch out its legal admissibility and therefore its implied moral justifica- tion as well. It is evident that even if the first can be established, this hardly dictates that it was morally appropriate in the bargain. As it happens, however, the legal defense of area bombing is in its own terms so problem- atical that it can hardly be used as a moral assertion concerning British air attacks on German cities. In a previous chapter we argued that prior to 1939 there seemed to be a general legal consensus within the international community that unrestricted aerial attacks on urban areas were prohibited by the war convention. As the fury of the area offensive mounted-and in the years since-the notion was advanced by some that, in actuality, there was no specific legal prohibition against city bombing. The case rests almost entirely on an interpretation of the provisions of the Hague Convention of 1907. In that convention there was no mention made of air operations as such, but considerable attention was given to the laws of war as they affected ground and naval operations against enemy cities. In attempting to capture or invest defended locales it was permissible for army units to shell a city despite the risk this involved to the non-combatant population (who, it was assumed, could leave the area of danger if they so desired). Even in this i