ty of Lübeck provided a convenient early test case. An old medieval tow constructed largely of wood ("built more like a fire-lighter than a humo habitation," as Harris observed), Lübeck was attacked on the night of Mare 28 by 234 RAF bombers. Some 200 acres, or about half the city, was leveled the German estimate being that over 15,000 people had their homes de stroyed as a consequence of the raid. Another old Hanseatic city, Rostock was given similar treatment later in April. Over 100,000 civilians were force- to evacuate the city as a result of this attack. At this point Bo omber Command had in its raids on Lübeck, Rostock and other places destroyed a total of about 780 acres, which was roughly equal to the damage visited on Gren Britain during the Blitz. As Harris laconically recorded, we had now "ah squared our account with Germany."27 The war-and the area bombing Germany-was to continue for three more years. Despite these early successes, Harris was acutely aware that the credibilityot Bomber Command as a major, perhaps the major, focus of the British war effe was hardly accepted by everyone in authority. The February 14th decision ho authorized a policy of area bombing of Germany, but a number of importan individuals continued to question the wisdom of committing really substantial resources to the bombing campaign when other needs (for example, in the Middle East) were also pressing. Doubts also continued to exist as to whether Bomhe Command, even if given all that it asked for, could really produce resne commensurate with such an outlay of men and materiel. Even the Prime Minis seemed to have his doubts. Earlier he had been an enthusiastic supporter of the bombing campaign, but by the fall of 1941 he reacted to a plan from the RA for the building of a total force of 4,000 bombers by saying that "it is ven disputable whether bombing by itself will be a decisive factor in the present we On the contrary, all that we have learnt since the war began shows that it