f Bomber Command's having resisted a precision bombing strategy for much of the conflict, Strachey went out of his way to quote German officials such as Albert Speer to the effect that "the war would have ended much sooner if precision bombing attacks had begun earlier than they did."26 The suggestion seemed to be that Bomber Command's "greatest achievement" rested on the degree to which it allowed itself to be diverted from the basic premise of its air campaign through virtually the entire war. Aside from these attempts to reinterpret Bomber Comm nd's activities in what was evidently regarded as a more palatable fashion, the moo dramatic evidence of the government's disinclination to have the reality of British strategic bombing policy become a matter of extended public debas lay in its treatment of Bomber Command personnel after the war and the attention (or, more properly, non-attention) given to its famous wartime the commander. In the glow of victory, various honors were showered on units of the British armed forces that had contributed to the defeat of the Nazis, but as it turned out some of these units were more equal than others For example the British Eighth Army, famous for its defeat of Rommel. Afrika Korps, received a campaign medal in recognition of its achieve ments. So did the RAF's Fighter Command, in particular for its role in the Battle of Britain. Arthur Harris had strongly urged that Bomber Command be equally honored, but in vain. His pilots and ground crew had to k satisfied with the relatively innocuous "defense" medal, which, as Hard sourly observed, was "among the people concerned . . . the subject of muak bitter comment. Every clerk, butcher or baker in the rear of the armin overseas had a 'campaign' medal."27 327 In Westminster Abbey there is a plaque honoring the pilots of Fighter Command who died in service, listin them all by name. The much heavier losses incurred by Bomber Command resulted in no such plaque nor any other recording of in