ghing of costs and gains, causes and effects. Bombs To Prevent Bombs A second inescapable conclusion about the area bombing offensive against Germany is that it proved to have only a modest impact on German arms  163 The Test of Experience Ethics and Airpower in World War I 162 was based at least in part on the idea that the German economy was fully stretched and "that any general loss to German industry as a whole would have to be borne by the munitions industry." He also admits that this idea proved to be quite fallacious.12 The notion of a German economy totally mobilized and regimented in support of the Nazi war effort was in fact largely a myth, at least until 1943. In reality, Hitler had always been concerned that a drastic decline in living standards might undermine German support for the war, and consequently he tolerated for a good while a really quite extraordinary diversion of German manufacturing capacity to civilian con- sumption. As late as October 1943, Speer himself acidly noted that in the preceding year German industry had produced some 120,000 typewriters, 200,000 domestic radios, 150,000 electric blankets, and 512,000 pairs of riding boots.13 The point is that there was actually a great deal of slack in German war production until quite late in the struggle, and this meant that Hitler had considerable leeway in meeting any falloff of arms production resulting from the area bombing offensive. Indeed, almost until the end of the war, German factories manufactured more arms than there were German soldiers to employ them. production. Consider for a moment the devastation of Hamburg in July 1943. There is no question but that the old Hanseatic city suffered grievously on those warm mid-summer nights. Yet the question is what effect this particular famous victory really had in terms of damaging the German war effort. Within three weeks, gas and electricity had been restored to most homes and factories, and by September the port of Hamburg was able to h