s definition is too narrow. They would assert that necessity implies anything that will have the effect of limiting suffering to one's own forces and, a connected matter, will bring victory as rapidly as possible, not just eventually. Thus this comment from General Dwight Eisenhower in his memoirs: "Military plans, I believed, should be devised with the single aim of speeding victory."27 The issue here is raised in stark terms by Britain's decision to go ahead with the area offensive in 1942 despite the fact that other possibilities, as Churchill put it, presented themselves. It might be argued that abandoning the strategic air offensive in 1942, or at least postponing it until relatively precise air strikes against Germany became possi- ble, could have lengthened the war and thus created the prospect of greater casualties for the British armed forces. After all, the systematic destruction of German cities was bound to have at least some effect on Germany's capacity to make war. Why abandon such an effort for the sake of saving German lives only to put at risk the lives of the just, that is, Allied soldiers fighting the Nazis? The question becomes whether there are any limits to what a country may do militarily in order to save the lives of its own soldiers. Is it permissible to apply fire and sword to the enemy indiscriminately if this will have the effect of saving even one combatant on one's own side? This is a difficult issue to resolve, for obviously almost any type of military action theoretically can lead to the saving of lives amongst one's soldiers. Arthur Harris, for one, had no doubt about how to resolve this (apparent) dilemma. In response to Churchill's famous minute calling the bombing of Dresden a "serious query"  163 Standards and Principles Ethics and Airpower in World War ii civilian casualties, it is instructive indeed to observe how-in a different context-the British government displayed considerable concern about the vulnerability of civilians t