sive, particularly since they were in some position to judge the problematical military effects of such a massive departure from the war convention. In this sense, they could have harnessed their technical perceptions to a broader moral vision. Even as Arthur Harris was ultimately only carrying out the dictates of his political masters, however, the scientists were engaged in working on problems that those in a supposed position to know seemed to think were critical. Moreover, the fact that one is a specialist in radar impulses does not necessarily mean that one is also unusually sensitive to issues of moral judgment. Perhaps the British scientific community should have spoken out more forcefully against the abuses of the area offensive, but then so should have a number of others. Their responsibility may have been no less, but it may also have been no greater. THE AIRCREW It is said that old men start wars that young men must fight. This may seem like a fairly jejune proposition, yet it is also a truism that the morale of young men in combat is an important factor in the capacity of a state even to wage war, let alone to wage it successfully. Some wonderment has been expressed at the ability of the German Wehrmacht to retain its cohesion virtually to the last days of World War II, even when ultimate defeat was a foregone conclusion. The evidence on this score suggests that a major reason for such cohesion was that the average German soldier continued until final defeat to feel a sense of loyalty to his immediate unit as well as some general commitment to the necessity, and even the rightness, of continuing to fight.30 If it is surprising that the German army held together reasonably well, it appears almost miraculous that Bomber Command was able, with only a few exceptions, to sustain the morale of its own aircrew until the German surrender. This achievement is all the more remarkable when we draw up actuarial tables for those joining Bomber Command during the war.