out the war to deny or at least not to admit to the reality of area bombing. One of the most astute and fair-minded historians of the area offensive summarizes governmental policy this way: In some ways, area bombing was a three-year period of deceit practised upon the British public and on world opinion. It was felt to be necessary that the exact nature of R.A.F. bombing should not be revealed. ... the impression was usually given that industry was the main target and that any bombing of workers' housing areas was an unavoidable necessity. Charges of 'indiscriminate bombing' were 31 consistently denied. The deceit lay in the concealment of the fact that the areas being mostly heavily bombed were nearly always either city centres or densely populated residential areas, which rarely contained any industry.13 To be sure there were occasional statements from the government that suggested the reality of what was being done over Germany. Thus in early June 1942, the Prime Minister openly boasted "that as the year advances, German cities ... will be subjected to an ordeal the like of which has never been experienced by a country in continuity, severity and magnitude."14 A year later he candidly admitted that "to achieve this end [defeat of the Nazis] there are no lengths of violence to which we will not go."15 As a general matter, however, spokesmen for the government seemed to feel that they had a somewhat delicate problem on their hands: how to encourage the morale of the British people by suggesting that Bomber Command was doing real damage to the German war effort without at the same time admitting that this effort was somewhat ambiguous in terms of traditional British standards of respect for the war convention. The decision, in most cases, was to emphasize the former and obscure the latter. Thus after the early raids against Lübeck and Rostock in the spring of 1942, Secretary of State for Air Archibald Sinclair insisted that the attacks had been directed at "armamen