of immorality levelled against him both during and after the war. Even though they comprise only a tiny part of his memoir of Bomber Command, ethical issues are addressed by Harris in a few places in an obvious attempt to deflect the notion that he was a totally unfeeling mechanic of destruction. As a general matter he denounced the idea that he or any military man was drawn to war. It was "nonsense" to assert that the career military person was a militarist "in the sense that he desires and encourages war in order to serve his own interests." Indeed the successful general frequently was ignored after the conflict while the losing one often faced an even more drastic fate. 39 Harris also offered a few reflections on the relationship between morality and war when he discussed the firebombing of Hamburg. "In spite of all that happened at Hamburg," he argued, "bombing proved a comparatively hu- mane method." For one thing it avoided the mass slaughter of British youth that had occurred in World War I. Moreover, the number of German civilians killed by Bomber Command hardly exceeded-and in fact was greatly less than-the number effected by the British naval blockade in the previous war, which led to a "death-rate much in excess of the ambition of even the most ruthless exponents of air frightfulness."40 The one other passage in Bomber Offensive that touches at least obliquely on the moral issue concerns the devastation of Dresden. Harris doesn't offer any formal defense of the ethics of the Dresden raid, but once again he does indicate an awareness at least that the issue exists. I know that the destruction of so large and splendid a city at this late stage of the war was considered unnecessary even by a good many people who admit that our earlier attacks were as fully justified as any other operation of war. Here I will only say that the attack on Dresden was at the time considered a military necessity by much more important people than myself, and that if their judgmen