understanding," of course, related to the fact that attacks on German civilian targets had been a prime objective of British air policy for three years and that Dresden represented not the beginning but the culmination of such a policy. The British government quickly took steps to forbade publication of the AP dispatch in Britain, but its contents had already been widely circulated. Given what we have said above about the factors shaping British opinion in the war years, one might have expected something close to uniformity in support of the bombing offensive against Germany, at least prior to the raid on Dresden. In actuality, there was a surprising degree of diversity in the British people's reaction to the bombing, both among the mass public, who had little evident idea of what the area offensive entailed, and among the attentive public, whose knowledge was (sometimes) more in tune with reality. There was a steady drumbeat of criticism of Bomber Command from the few and an even wider expression of uneasiness from a good many others. A survey undertaken by the British Institute of Public Opinion in April 1941. for example, found that 53 percent of those questioned approved (in theory) of bombing civilian targets in Germany, 38 percent did not, and 9 percent were undecided. A later poll revealed that Londoners, when asked their opinion of bombing raids on Germany, replied in the following proportions: about six in ten gave "unqualified verbal approval," two out of ten had qualms about the bomber offensive, and one-tenth felt the raids were too terrible to be condoned.9 In sorting out public reaction to British air policy in World War II, it is possible to divide opinion into three general categories, even if there was some overlap among them on certain issues. THE CROMWELLIANS In May 1942, Mr. Geoffrey Shakespeare, Liberal MP for Norwich, wrote a letter to Sir Archibald Sinclair setting out his views on the bombing of Germany. "I am all for the bombing of working c