matter characteristic of Harris. The position later in 1944 was, of course, entirely different, and the failure of Harris's superiors to rein in him or in fact to relieve him of command is difficult to understand and even more difficult to excuse. All the circum- stances now allowed a virtually unfettered Allied air campaign of relatively precise bombing of German oil and transportation targets. Moreover, there was manifold evidence that this effort could prove (and indeed was proving) to be decisive in the war against the Nazis. Nevertheless, Harris went blithely ahead, and was allowed to go blithely ahead, in smashing one German city after another in a virtual paroxysm of irrelevant destruction. It was Harris's failure to make good on his boast of winning the war singlehandedly in the Battle of Berlin that could well have provided a logical point for relieving him of his duties. As of March 1944, it was clear that his area strategy had not only failed significantly to effect the German war-mak- ing capacity but had also been enormously costly in terms of resources, not to mention the lives of aircrew. In addition, a number of people at the Air Ministry, including Portal himself, had by this point grown rather weary of Harris's general obduracy and unwillingness (or inability) to discuss alter- native bombing strategies. Since Harris had so few reservoirs of good will outside his immediate circle at High Wycombe, his removal from command  7 Final Reflections "The good that I would do, I do not, and the evil that I would not do, that I do!" -St. Paul (Romans 7.19) The main burden of the moral argument here has been that whatever rationales may be offered for the British area bombing offensive against Germany prior to the spring of 1944, after that date it was quite without ethical justification. If this assertion is accepted, it is a matter of some importance to consider why the area offensive, after a brief pause, resumed in September 1944 and maintained its intens