ing to the theme of proportionality, and to the question of wh- did British officials know and when did they know it, the answer r see relatively clear: they had reason to know a lot (about the ineffectiven of the area offensive) and to know it as early as 1943; they had even mo reason to know it in the latter stages of the war. Thus an ethical critique the area offensive can't be dismissed simply as retroactive moralizine Relevant officials had the necessary information at the time to make appropriate moral (and practical) judgment, which was that no claims military utility could possibly justify the mass slaughter of German ci ians being undertaken. I would remind the House that this policy [the strategic air offensive] was initiated at a time when we were fighting alone against the combined forces of It has been rightly suggested that "awareness of the consequences one's actions seems a necessary if not sufficient condition for mm conduct. . . . the principle seems [especially] beyond dispute for puh  171 The Test of Experience Ethics and Airpower in World War II 170 expected loss rate of 5 percent in Bomber Command sorties over the next four months, matched against an anticipated production of 212 Lancasters each month, "it appears that the Lancaster force alone should be sufficient but only just sufficient to produce in Germany by April 1st, 1944, a state of devastation in which surrender is inevitable." All this would be possible, however, only if Bomber Command was given "priority in labour and materials over all conflict- ing claims."31 This proposal was in effect a suggestion that the Royal Air Force be permitted to take over the British war economy. Germany and Italy and it then seemed that it was the most effective way in which we, acting alone, could take the initiative against the enemy. Since that time we have had an enormous access of support from the Russian armies . . . and also from the great potential strength of the United States of America. Natu