aking such arguments are generally rather uncomfortable with extending them too far, for perhaps obvious reasons. The supporters of Bomber Command, on the other hand, are a good deal less defensive when they discuss two other moral claims for the legitimacy of British bombing policy. The first of these asserts the notion of "supreme emergency." The argu- ment is that, in such a situation, even humane and civilized states may be forced (temporarily) to set aside the war convention in the interests of survival-and moreover, they have a (temporary) right to do so. An import- ant assumption is that the state is fighting in accordance with the dictates of jus ad bellum, that is to say, it is fighting for a just cause. How to define a supreme emergency? Two ingredients seem to be necessary: there must be a clear and imminent danger of defeat by the enemy, and the consequences of such a defeat must appear to be truly catastrophic. In practical terms, this would mean that losing the war would threaten the very essence of the nation,  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 146 Standards and Principles would involve one's society and values being subjugated to a completely repugnant rule, and would perhaps even put one's existence as a separate state at risk. Notice that both elements have to be present in order for there to be a supreme emergency: if the threat of defeat is imminent but the consequences of defeat are limited, or if the potential consequences are dire but there is no immediate danger of defeat, then no supreme emergency exists. If such a peril does exist, however, Machiavelli for one argued that with "the entire safety of our country ... at stake, no considerations of what is just or unjust, merciful or cruel, praiseworthy or blameworthy must intervene."20 From the concept of supreme emergency we move to the corollary notion of "military necessity." This term is found very widely in all discussions of ethics and military conduct, as well as in various convention