fensive. A SUMMING UP When Air Marshal Sir Arthur Harris died in April 1984 at the age of 91, the London Observer suggested in its obituary that Winston Churchill and others had made Harris a scapegoat for the area bombing offensive against Ger- many. Even so, it admitted, "moral questions remain. Fairly or otherwise, 'Bomber' Harris will always be the symbol for a part of the British war effort about which many people have very mixed feelings."24 A little-noticed irony attended Harris's death: he passed away at his home on Goring-on-Thames West of London. A certain German field marshal by that (approximate) name spent a good deal of time directing his bombers over the Thames, and his  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 198 Final Reflections efforts played a considerable part in spurring Harris's subsequent campaign of destroying German cities. To quote young Peterkin again, when all is said and done, what did it all mean? What did it mean for the war effort? What did it mean for the decision-makers, for the boffins, for the aircrew, for the hardy band of dissenters? What did it mean for British society generally? Above all, what did it mean in terms of the conduct of war, that most characteristic and lamentable of human activities, in the 20th century? In these final pages I propose to step back from all the warp and woof of the area offensive-the details of aircraft and bombs, the arguments over strategy, the character of the raids over Germany-and attempt an overview of what was done and what it ultimately may have signified. It must be admitted at the outset that one of the reasons the British bombing of German cities has remained morally controversial is that it failed in its proclaimed purposes, a cynical but perhaps understandable phenome- non. Successful captains in wartime tend to be spared quibbles about the doubtful elements in their success; it is enough that they have achieved victory. One recalls President John F. Kennedy's mordant comment after the B