troubling issue, which has to do with Harris's "professional expertise." Accept for the moment that we can't have expected Harris-or, perhaps more strongly, wanted Harris-to worry about the ethics of area bombing. What essentially pragmatic judg- ment can we make about his strategic and tactical abilities? After all, this was the man who defiantly resisted every attempt to switch Bomber Command from area to precision bombing, who argued against the forma- tion of the Pathfinder Force on the grounds of its impracticality (although it proved to be one of the most successful innovations of the air war), and who expressed astonishment at the fact that his bomb crews enjoyed a huge success in attacking transportation targets in Western Europe prior to D-Day. It is at the very least a troubling record, and out of it comes a moral judgment that can reasonably be applied to this man of action rather than thought. There is a considerable body of evidence that the area offensive hardly produced results comparable to those that could have been achieved by another strategy. This point will be elaborated on in due course. If we do accept for the sake of argument that the area offensive was ill-advised from a pragmatic point of view-particularly in the last year of the war-then the violations of the war convention that the offensive entailed become especially indefensible. And to the extent that it was Harris's professional failings, in particular his refusal to admit that there were viable alternatives to the area offensive, that kept the strategy going, then he has to assume a share of the moral condemnation. The point is not that Harris was an evil man in any commonly understood sense of the term. The point is that his fatal lack of imagination, his mulish confidence in his own judgment, and his inability or unwillingness to change produced evil. The Commander-In-Chief: Winston Churchill We have painted Sir Arthur Harris as a distinctly limited and rather unpleas- ant individu