ssance photographs after each raid so that we would find out whether each bomb had or had not gone down exactly where we planned that it should go." The defenders of Pantelleria surrendered without a fight following this air assault, and Zuckerman's reputation rose accordingly. It was further enhanced when he participated in plans for air strikes that would cut enemy communications down the length of Italy in support of the 69 invasion of Sicily. The results again proved gratifying, with the enemy being unable to establish a functioning railhead to receive reinforcements of troops and supplies during the Sicily operation. Later, as Allied forces began to move up the Italian peninsula itself, the same concentration on rail targets continued to produce the same results. Zuckerman carefully checked the bombing plans against the projected outcomes, using both personal obser- vations and the Italian railway records. As one assessment has it, "it was soon clear that by a scientific choice of targets, and a careful estimate of how confusion might be spread through a railway network like a chain reaction, it was possible to sterilize any railway system in Europe."13 Zuckerman's ultimate triumph as a scientific adviser to the RAF, how- ever, took place during the planning for the D-Day operation. The man for whom he worked, Air Marshal Tedder, was appointed deputy to General Eisenhower, the supreme commander of the Allied invasion force. Tedder was effectively given overall command of Allied air forces in support of the invasion, and thus Zuckerman's position was considerably enhanced. Basi- cally, he urged a continuation of the strategy that seemed to have been so effective on Pantelleria and especially in Italy-in this case, a generalized assault on the German transportation system in France and the Low Countries prior to D-Day.14 Not surprisingly, Arthur Harris was dismissive of this scheme. He wrote to Portal in January 1944 that "it is clear that the best and indeed the