, accompanied by winds of hurricane force. One British pilot described the scene: "It was as if I was looking into what I imagined to be an active volcano. . . . Our actual bombing was like putting another shovelful of coal into the furnace." Over 40,000 people died on that evening in Hamburg within a period of about two hours.3 The transition in British policy from a rejection of "indiscriminate bomb- ing" to an apparent embrace of precisely this concept resulted over the course of the war in the progressive destruction of large areas of almost every major city in Germany. In view of the odious character of the Nazi regime, and the normal tendency in wartime for public opinion to accept their government's definition of "military necessity," it might be supposed that the change in British bombing policy would have aroused relatively little comment or protest, at least within Britain itself. It is true that only a small minority actively opposed the new strategy, yet one is also struck by the fact that the activities of Bomber Command did become increasingly controversial as the war progressed, not only among segments of the general public but within the British government itself, including individuals from both the civilian and military establishments. Moreover, there has been a much wider debate over the appropriateness of British air strategy in the years since, and the fact that feelings still run high on the matter was reflected in the recent controversy over the erection xiii of a statue in honor of Bomber Command's chief, Sir Arthur Harris, on the grounds of a chapel dedicated to the Royal Air Force. Under the auspices of the Bomber Command Association, this memorial to Harris and the aircrew of Bomber Command was unveiled on May 31, 1992, by Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother. The current German major of Dresden declared that the memorial did not belong in the Europe of 1992. His counterpart in Würzburg even appealed to the British ambassador to Germany to use