he Germans for their part undertook overtly terrorist raids on Britain, the purpose of which was clearly not military but rather retributional. In addition to the indiscriminate German rocket attacks in 1944, there were the so-called "Baedekker raids" in the spring of 1941. Hitler and Goering announced that in order to punish the British for their supposed outrages in bombing Germany, the Luftwaffe would undertake a series of raids on British cities of particular historical and cultural significance. Such targets were identified by them as those rating three stars in the famous Baedekker tourist guide. Subsequently Canterbury, Exeter, Bath, York, and other equally famous sites were subjected to massive air raids. Hitler summarized the rationale for these raids by stating that "if they [the British] announce that they will attack our cities on a large scale, then we shall wipe their cities out."20 As far as Britain itself is concerned, the subsequent denials of their being a revenge motive in the area offensive are hard to square with the evidence that such an impulse did exist, both for those who had a direct role in the area offensive and for some segments of the general public as well. Not surprisingly, the real truth in this matter is often best found in private reflections offered at the time rather than in the more public postwar justifications of the area offensive. One of Churchill's personal aides seemed to touch on some of the actual motivations for the bombing of Germany when he recorded in his diary on March 20, 1940, that "news of our gigantic air-raid on Sylt, as a reprisal for a raid on Scapa Flow the other day, very well received by the public. . . . It looks as if this may be the beginning of a more active phase of the war, since the Germans will now probably undertake another raid by way of reprisal, and so things will go on until somebody goes so far as to bomb civilians."21 In the event, both sides did go so far as to attack civilians. Do Unto Oth