nmental spokesmen, for example, Archibald Sinclair, con- cerning Bomber Command's tactics. Perhaps the fact that Spaight felt it necessary to engage in such a deception, even while extolling the great accomplishments of Bomber Command, is one of the most important points to emerge out of his book. THE MODERATES As they have been defined and described here, the Cromwellians almost certainly never constituted more than a distinct minority of opinion in Britain with respect to the activities of Bomber Command. For the great majority of the British public, the attitude adopted toward the area offensive might properly be described as a general (if at times uneasy) acceptance of a military necessity combined with considerable admiration for the courage of Bomber Command aircrew, not to mention considerable pride in the fact that Britain was taking the war to the Germans in a demonstrable way even though she may have been suffering military reversals on other fronts. A report sent to the Air Ministry analyzing a sample of civilian letters opened by the censor in the wake of the 1,000-bomber raid on Cologne summarized what seems to have been the prevailing position: "There are those who are pleased, and those who regret that so much suffering should have to be inflicted. There are those who fear reprisals. Many of the letters contain two or more of these elements. Predominant is satisfaction, but many women express regret."16 and deserved the terrible punishment of the area offensive. Indeed, the moderates at times demonstrated at least some empathy for the suffering of the German civilian population under bombing; this was especially so for those who had themselves experienced air attacks in an earlier period. Calls for reprisals against Germany in response to the Luftwaffe's attacks against Britain, for example, tended to be concentrated in areas that had been least affected by German bombing. A Gallup Poll published early in May 1941 showed that the most determined deman