any of his present pilots to the new emphasis in targeting. Realistically, such a change in strategy would have implied that a number of Harris's bombers would have simply refrained from city attacks during this reorientation period. Since Harris had so little belief in precision bombing, he was hardly interested in persuading his aircrew that there was merit in adopting new methods of operation. Moreover, he recoiled before the idea of leaving any of his aircraft on the ground no matter what the justification for doing so. The above circumstances help to explain an attack such as that delivered on Würzberg in March 1945. Würzberg was a city of considerable historic although little military importance, but that was precisely the point. Essen- tially all the targets in Germany that were of military significance had been reduced to rubble. Even Harris admits that by this time it had become much more difficult to identify any further genuinely strategic targets. At the same time, his philosophy continued to be that bombing anything in Germany was better than bombing nothing. Hence Würzberg became a logical victim for Bomber Command simply because it had been relatively untouched-and, above all, because it was there. Under all the circumstances detailed above, then, there was an almost overwhelming impetus to continue the area offensive virtually to the last  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 186 uok Final Reflections days of the war. There were the vested interests of those in Bomber Com- mand who had staked their professional reputations on the military logic of attacking German cities. There was a vast array of equipment and people who had to be kept occupied and who were basically trained for indiscrim- inate bombing. The British government had committed itself to providing ever-expanding resources for carrying out the area offensive. The momen- tum created by their earlier decisions proved impossible to resist. Pride of Place In accounting further for the reversi