shed commitment to destruction. There was, for example, the repeated assurances by British spokesmen that their bombers were attacking "only" military targets and that they were attempting to avoid collateral civilian damage as much as possible. The hypocrisy in such statements has already been remarked on, but it was the fact that they were made at all which is the point here. Moreover, the argument of the sliding scale ignores the fact that the war against the Nazi regime was after all a defense of certain basic values, among which was a decent respect for the individual. In the ultimate sense this was the political purpose of the war (in the Clausewitzian sense), that is to say, the defense of a whole way of life. It will be recalled that one of the prime requisites of a truly just war is that the peace and justice to be achieved must not be compromised by the measures used to gain military victory. One of the leading historians of the area offensive observes that a great many people (among whom he presumably numbered himself) "felt that by embarking on a systematic attack on cities ... the Allies sacrificed something of their own moral case and that they contributed substantially to the terrible moral collapse that took place in the Second World War, most especially in the treatment of prisoners and civilians."19 To this argument the sliding scale thesis can present few rebuttals. The melancholy truth seems to be that in combatting a great evil, the British (and the Americans) condoned other evils that significantly lessened the whole moral purpose of the struggle. SUPREME EMERGENCY AND MILITARY NECESSITY References to the principle of double effect and the sliding scale may be found among those defending the area offensive, but the impression gained is that those making such arguments are generally rather uncomfortable with extending them too far, for perhaps obvious reasons. The supporters of Bomber Command, on the other hand, are a good deal less defensive wh