or the duration of the war. She had an invitation to give a series of lectures in India, but permission was denied for that trip as well. There were even inquiries in Parliament as to whether she should not be detained under the Emergency Powers (Defence) Act, which allowed those under suspicion to be incarcerated indefinitely without benefit of appeal or even detailing of specific charges. More painful was the general social ostracism that she had to endure, even from those who were old friends and companions. "Distrust did not only come from official quarters; friends who had known G. [George Catlin] and me for years coldly avoided me at public gatherings, and a growing spate of abusive letters increased the pain of such rejections." A famous writer of thrillers once wrote her to ask why "she did not keep her mouth shut." Brittain responded by asking whether the fight against Hitler was being conducted in order to shut peoples' mouths.67 All this might have been endured more easily if she had seen some evidence that her protests were having an effect on governmental policy. The obvious reality that she (and others) were essentially irrelevant to the direction of events made such indignities even harder to bear. At one point, Brittain feared that she might undergo a total physical and nervous break- down if she were subjected to yet another barrage of criticism. In order to deal with the effects of what she called her long struggle against hostility and suspicion, she went for extended treatment to a facility in Coleford that featured a combination of physical and mental therapy. Some years later she wrote in moving terms to the director of this institution: "I shall never  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 126 The Subjects of the Realm forget what it meant to come into a community where I was regarded neither as a fool nor a traitor, and how well you understood that what I needed then was just rest and that complete unquestioning acceptance of all I was and trie