by land armies and subject to capture (with or without the use of ground artillery). What about cities that were far to the rear of the front lines and might contain important military defenses but were beyond the range of artillery and not subject to actual seizure? In this instance the only applicable threat that could be levied against them was from the air, but the purpose could hardly be the traditional one of investing the city itself. The introduction of genuine strategic bombing in World War I, and in particular fairly indiscriminate attacks on urban areas, led to renewed pressures for defining more precisely the laws of war as they applied to , an aerial combat. At the Washington Naval Conference in 1921-1922 Aviation Subcommittee considered ways of limiting the actual type and quantity of aircraft suitable for strategic bombing as an indirect means to controlling indiscriminate air warfare, but no agreement was possible primarily because of concern about the effect of such steps on the burgeon ing civilian aviation industry. The issue of city bombing was then referred to a special Commission of Jurists, which met at the Hague from December 1922 to February 1923. The Commission consisted of legal experts from the United States, Great Britain, France, Italy, Japan and the Netherlands and they were assisted by various military and naval advisors in thei deliberations. At the outset the Commission decided to avoid any attempt to set limits on types or numbers of aircraft and instead concentrated d on the way they were used in war. They also determined not to be hamstrun by a continuation of the "undefended town" doctrine. The Hague Draft Rules that emerged out of this conference established for the first time body of principles specifically related to the exercise of strategic power.2 The jurists did not bother to conceal their feeling that the introduction of aerial attacks on cities was an abhorrent development in war. "The conscience of mankind revolts agai