- berlain. The famous list was published in leading British newspapers and was much reproduced, thus indelibly associating Vera Brittain and her husband (if only indirectly) with two British prime ministers. As she wryly commented, this circumstance "answered the war-time heresy-hunters more effectively than argument." For a time there was a framed photocopy of the list on their dining room wall, but eventually they consigned it to the domain of the bathroom. 69 The irony was that it evidently took the judgment of the Gestapo to convince a number of Vera Brittain's countrymen that she was a loyal defender of democratic, that is, anti-Nazi values, even though she con- demned area bombing as a method to protect those values. It is also evident that the uneasiness many in Britain displayed about area bombing after the war translated into a belated embrace of the courage of Vera Brittain in opposing what many others, it now appeared, had also opposed (although in 127 their case rather silently). In her typical penchant for the arresting phrase, Brittain once referred to such silence as the "Fifth Horseman of the Apoca- lypse." Perhaps this was overly dramatic, yet it seems hard to deny that Vera Brittain, in pitying the masses of German civilians subject to area bombing, was truly a rebel with a cause, and an unimpeachable one at that. The famous British classicist Gilbert Murray, in his introduction to Euripedes's Trojan Women, once drew a connection between compassion and dissent. "Pity is a rebel passion," Murray said. "Its hand is against the strong, against the organized forces of society, against conventional sanctions and accepted gods." Vera Brittain could hardly have asked for a better epitaph-nor, for that matter, could the other dissenters who protested against their government's policy of laying waste to German cities.  PART III JUDGMENTS  5 1 Standards and Principles "Do not do an immoral thing for moral reasons." -Thomas Hardy In discussing the views of va