s memorandum on Dresden, even though it was meant only for official eyes, has to be interpreted as one of the earliest steps in this direction. It seems unmistakable that, with victory in sight, the Prime Minister-in not his finest hour-was attempting to put some distance between himself and the enthusiasts of area bombing. Churchill, after all. knew full well what area bombing had meant for Germany, even if most of his countrymen had not, and one day the actual historical record would be open for inspection. Churchill, with his historian's instincts, presumably was preparing for this eventuality. His Foreign Secretary seemed to have some of the same concerns. The original Dresden minute indicated that Anthony Eden had spoken to the 35 Prime Minister about his "concerns" with respect to the continuation of bombing merely for purposes of increasing the terror. Yet this was the same man who on April 15, 1942, had written to the Secretary of State for Air along the following lines: The psychological effects of bombing have little connexion with the military or economic importance of the target; they are determined solely by the amount of destruction and dislocation caused. .. . I wish to recommend therefore that in the selection of targets in Germany, the claims of smaller towns of under 150,000 inhabitants which are not too heavily defended, should be considered, even though those towns contain only targets of secondary importance.24 There was at the least a somewhat doubtful consistency between this stance and the expression of doubt about terror bombing delivered by Eden to Churchill following the Dresden raid. It is of interest in this connection that Churchill expressed his firm opposition to Britain's undertaking a systematic postwar study of the effects of strategic bombing similar to that which the United States had organized (the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, or USSBS). When the British Bombing Survey Unit was finally established over his objections,