ge and catastrophic mistakes, together with a good many that only a German would think out." His aversion toward countries and peoples not British was matched by an equally robust dismissal of many within his own government, both civilian and military. In speaking of those at the British Treasury, he mused that "it is perhaps an exaggeration to speak of the Treasury as having sense; they are purely opportunist and have no qualms whatsoever about grinding the faces of the poor, that is, of the serving officer." He asserted that Bomber Com- mand would have been far more effective "if the armament and production authorities had not bungled everything they did." His operational problems, in his view, indeed could have been solved expeditiously by a few bombs on the appropriate government departments.34 His attitude toward the Ministry of Economic Warfare, a particular bête noire for its insistence on Bomber Command's attacking economic chokepoints in Germany, could be seen in the following comment: They come along and tell me now you bomb this factory and that factory; they make all the shoestrings for the army. All right, I bomb them and lose some good men in the bargain. But the German army's still fighting. I ask why and some bloody civil servant says, 'Oh, they're using strings for shoelaces.''135 These outbursts directed at civilian authority were matched by an equal venom toward the other military services. Despite the enormous resources assigned to Bomber Command during the war, he could never escape a feeling of bitterness that the navy and army had received an undue propor- tion of the materiel and personnel available. Assessing the interwar period, he commented that "for nearly twenty years, I watched the army and navy, both singly and in concert, engineer one deliberate attempt after another to  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 40 The Masters of the Realm destroy the Royal Air Force." If they had succeeded, "the Nazis would have ruled Europe-if not the wor