the current cult of toughness and contempt for "squeamishness" that seemed then to be prevalent among so many in Britain. In describing her own philosophy, she argued that it is better to suffer disadvantage in war than to descend to the lower levels of barbarity. ... an important function of pacifism in war-time is the preservation of certain human and religious values which might otherwise be lost.63 It says something about the relative tolerance of British institutions that even so radical and unpopular a critique of governmental policy as this found a publisher at the time. Even so, Brittain admits that its appearance did not come without considerable difficulty. Her regular publishers both in the United States and in Britain declined to accept the manuscript because of their commitment to the war effort against Hitler. She agreed to spare them the embarrassment of insisting on publication as a favored author. Eventually the book appeared under an obscure imprint in Britain and was offered by the Fellowship of Reconciliation, a pacifist group, in the United States. I turned out to have a surprisingly large sale, with the first edition of 6,000 sold out before publication and subsequent editions leading to an overall distribution of about 10,000. In a curious aside, Brittain claimed that the book was even read in occupied Norway and "circulated in typescript throughout the resistance movement."64 How the Norwegian resistance movement found comfort in her message of forgiveness toward the Germans was left unstated The appearance of Seeds of Chaos (a history of the area offensive). published in 1944 on behalf of the Bombing Restriction Committee, repre- sented yet another plea by Brittain for a return to traditional norms of international law and to the principle that a nation should even accept disadvantage in wartime if the alternative was the destruction of basic humane values. This particular publication led to some unforeseen, and for Vera Brittain particularl