ell as assess- ments by the Political Warfare Executive (PWE) of German newspaper and radio reports and propaganda. Finally, there was considerable information available from photographic intelligence. The Central Interpretation Unit at Medmenham, close to Bomber Command and USAAF headquarters, was a key contributor in this regard. Taking all these together, it now seems that London had a fairly wide range of data on the actual situation in Germany, even if precise estimates on given issues were sometimes hard to produce. As the war progressed, the British had at their disposal a whole series of indicators bearing specifically on the effects of the area offensive. Some of their information suggested strongly that certain things were not happening as a result of the bombing; other data seemed to demonstrate that certain things were taking place despite the bombing. The most important example of the former had to do with German morale, whereas in the area of German arms production a quite different picture emerged. ious The British are greatly overestimating the damage done to Berlin. Naturally it is terrible, but there is no question of 25 per cent of the capital no longer existing The English naturally want to furnish their public with a propaganda morsel. have every reason to want them to believe this and therefore forbid any denial The sooner London is convinced that there is nothing left of Berlin, the sooner they will stop their air offensive against the Reich capital. 16 One of the prime sources of information on the morale question was Japanese diplomatic decryptions, and these admittedly painted a somewhat ambiguous picture. On the one hand, they referred to moments of general panic, such as after the Hamburg raid, and they also depicted an increasing apathy among the German populace as the fortunes of war turned against Berlin. On the other hand, none of the data available to London suggested that a general revolt of the German people against their masters w