r Harris as head of Bomber Command inevitably reasserts itself. Enough has been said already to indicate that Harris would hardly have gone along with a new scheme of focusing on precise (or at least non-area) targets in Germany. Sacking Harris, of course, would not have been an easy decision to make for any of the principals involved, including Churchill, Portal, and Sinclair. We have already considered in some detail the factors that persuaded these men against the dismissal of Harris, particularly in the crucial summer and fall months of 1944. Yet the fact that Harris's ouster, or perhaps some kind of euphemistic "reassignment" to other duties, would have been an awkward step to take does not mean that it was beyond the realm of possibility. The fact is that getting rid of Harris was a lot more conceivable in 1944 than it would have been earlier. There were several qualified candidates available to take his place who had developed a great deal of experience in Bomber Command's operations. Notable among these was Ralph Cochrane perhaps the most imaginative of Harris's group commanders, who had developed advanced precision marking techniques as leader of 5 Group Another possible replacement was Air Vice Marshal Donald Bennett, a man with extensive operational experience in Bomber Command, and whom Harris himself had described as "one of the most efficient and finest young- sters I have ever come across in the Service." Even Harris's own Deputy. Robert Saundby, might have stepped into the breach. Saundby seemed to be a fervent supporter of his chief in the area offensive, but his personal qualities were far different than Harris's, and he could be expected at least to consider alternatives to Bomber Command's strategy without the arrogant dismissal of any debate on the matter characteristic of Harris. The position later in 1944 was, of course, entirely different, and the failure of Harris's superiors to rein in him or in fact to relieve him of command is difficult t