erly in a letter to Portal in January  177 The Test of Experience Ethics and Airpower in World War II 176 such as Oboe to maximum effect. Moreover, the Mosquito could fly at around 350 MPH, which enabled it to deliver a 4,000-pound bomb to the farthest corners of Germany with enemy fighters having only the flimsiest chance of catching it. Mosquito casualties over Germany were indeed a fraction of those suffered by the Lancasters.40 Strictly from the point of view of resources, the Mosquito featured a crew of two compared to the five or six in a four-engined bomber. The fact seems to be then that adoption of the Mosquito as Britain's standard bomber would have saved a great deal of money, not to mention manpower. center of German cities. To put it slightly differently, by using these centers as the primary aiming points, the British could be reasonably confident that their bombs would strike at least some theoretically relevant targets rather than simply being wasted in a vain attempt to hit the industries located on the perimeter of the city. This is not a small objection, but it is also not one that is completely self-evident if Harris and his supporters had put their focus earlier in the war on developing greater precision in night (and even day) attacks. Indeed there is considerable evidence that such an effort would have been amply rewarded. Aside from improved navigational techniques and new guides to bombing accuracy, an obvious requirement for precision bombing over Germany, and most especially in daylight, was the use of long-range fighter escorts. It was the introduction of such aircraft, in the form of the P-51 Mustang, that gave the Americans the capability for sustained daylight bombing in the far reaches of the Reich. Ironically, the Mustang had a distinctly British accent. It originated in a request from the Royal Air Force to North American Aviation, who built the first prototype in 1940. Some 600 had been provided to the RAF by 1941, but at this poin