d the government's hypocrisy paid tribute to it. If deception was indeed prevalent throughout the war in the British government's discussion of its bombing policy, this does lead in a curious sense to a somewhat positive conclusion. The existence of hypocrisy is prima facie an acceptance of the fact that "virtue" does exist and that as a general matter it "should" be adhered to. Otherwise, why engage in hypocrisy? This consideration is critical in reacting to the spurious com- monplace that there are no really legitimately binding limits to violence in wartime. If this were indeed the way in which most people (including the typical statesman or even the military professional) actually regarded his society's conduct of hostilities, there would be no need for disguising the character of various military activities if they seemed to be efficient in gaining victory. Since British policy-makers in World War II did feel the need for disguise, this substantiates the argument that the war convention specifically as it applies to aerial combat, did (and does) exist and can be identified, at least in broad stroke. The Campaign of Forgetting There is another body of evidence that can be introduced in support of this proposition, and it concerns the behavior of British authorities after the end of hostilities in 1945. If the standard operating mode of the government during the war was to dissemble on the facts of area bombing, following the surrender of Germany there was a seeming effort to discourage any further detailed exami- nation of Bomber Command's activities by interested parties. This effort was likely spurred on in part by the fact that a good deal of new information on these activities was now emerging unfettered by the strictures of wartime security.23 Churchill's famous memorandum on Dresden, even though it was meant only for official eyes, has to be interpreted as one of the earliest steps in this direction. It seems unmistakable that, with victory in sight, the P