vities was calcu- lated to have a serious impact on the public's perception that Britain, as represented by Bomber Command, could lay claim to some very special qualities of bravery and military accomplishment. What is critical in this consideration of British morale, of course, was the notion constantly pushed by High Wycombe, the Ministry of Information, and others that Bomber Command's area offensive was doing serious dam- age to the German capacity to make war. What was at stake here was what might be called "the Singapore syndrome." The fall of the British bastion at Singapore to the Japanese in February 1942 was a blow to the nation's sense of its military valor and competence. Singapore before the war had been widely considered to be virtually impregnable, yet it was taken after only a few weeks' campaign by the enemy. Moreover, some 80,000 British military personnel were taken prisoner by the Japanese, which suggested something other than a fight to the last man.13 When combined with other British military reversals, for example, the fall of Tobruk in North Africa and the disasters in Norway and France, the British public was subject to a consid- erable crisis of confidence. It was almost exactly at the time of the fall of Singapore, however, that Sir Arthur Harris was appointed head of Bomber Command and launched his aggressive campaign of direct assault on the Nazi regime, beginning with the raids on Lübeck, Rostock, and Cologne. The government's elaborate description of the success of these operations proved to be a tonic to many in British society and assuaged the lingering fears about the capacity of British arms to face the aggressor. A somewhat different morale factor came to the fore after the invasion of Normandy. There was no question by July 1944 but that the Germans were headed for defeat. At the same time, the enormous buildup of American ground, naval, and air forces was apparent to all, and there was a reluctant recognition (and not just withi