arrassment to his fellow churchmen and to the church hierarchy itself. The one notable (and rather surprising) exception was the former Archbishop of Canterbury, Cosmo Lang, who echoed Bell's concerns about the inherent inhumanity of the area offensive and was particularly sharp in demanding that the government publicly confront its apparent hypocrisy concerning bombing policy. In a typical statement to the House of Lords, Lang delivered himself of the following remarks: We were always told that [Government] policy was to limit attacks to definite military objectives or their immediate neighbourhood, and not directly and purposely to involve the destruction of the lives and homes of people. I do not think it can be said that that policy has been adhered to in these apparently deliberate attempts to destroy whole cities, and I venture to think there is some force-I think we must all admit it-in the plea that either the hitherto declared policy is to be changed or this new policy is to be definitely adopted.48 Such expressions of support for Bell's position were rare indeed, how- ever. More typical of his experience was the letter he wrote in July 1943 to the current Archbishop of Canterbury, William Temple, asking him to request in the House of Lords a clear statement from the government concerning the tactics of Bomber Command. Temple's curt dismissal of this suggestion set the tone for Bell's treatment at the hands of other leading church figures. Even within his own diocese, Bell felt growing disapproval for what he was saying about the brave fliers of the RAF. In September 1943. he wrote in the Chichester Diocesan Gazette that "when a Minister of the Government speaks in exulting terms of a ruthless and destructive bombing of the German people . .. the subjection of fifty German cities to the same terror as Hamburg (or Coventry) has suffered .. . then we have real cause to grieve for a lowering of moral tone, and also to fear greatly for the future.">49 Organizer