ct but they exist nonetheless, the assumption beine that all individual human beings have certain rights that continue to obtain even in the midst of war. Above all this means the right to life unless there are compelling factors that temporarily demand that this right be set aside (e.g., in battle itself). In descending order of obligation, such duties have do with the population of "friendly" or allied countries and then with the soldiers and civilians of the enemy. Some might argue that the level of obligation toward friends and allies should be counted as perfect as thas displayed toward one's own citizens, but in practice it is difficult to imas. ine-or expect-that governments will approach their well-being in pre- cisely the same terms as their own. The Case of the French Civilians It is striking, in any case, that the British government in World War II did appear to recognize at least the second realm of obligation. Evidence for this may be found in British attitudes toward air strikes in the so-called occupied countries. Given the ferocity of Bomber Command's assault on German cities, and the seeming willingness by London to accept unlimited German At a critical meeting on March 25, 1944, all the major Allied military figures involved in the air war against Germany met in London to decide how the British and American air forces could best be utilized in support of the coming D-Day invasion. One of the decisions that ensued from this conference was the effective suspension of Bomber Command's area offen- sive over the Nazi heartland. The British bombing force, until further notice, would be assigned to direct tactical support of Operation Overlord, and in particular concentrated attacks on the railroad marshalling yards and repair facilities of northwestern Europe (the so-called Transportation Plan identi- fied with Solly Zuckerman). This would make it extremely difficult for the Germans to move men and supplies to the invasion front. For present purposes wha