time, he delivered himself of the following comments: "I believe it can be done, and if so it will be of great importance. But please take me off this job. It is going to be too terribly destructive. I don't want to have anything to do with it."4 Following the successful testing of the bomb at Alamagordo, New Mex- ico, on July 16, 1945, various American scientists who had worked on the Manhattan Project banded together to urge their government to wait before using the bomb on a Japanese city. Their idea was to explode one of the devices off the coast of Japan in a demonstration that would (hopefully)  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 66 The Servants of the Realm persuade the Japanese authorities to surrender once they had seen the bomb's enormous destructive power. The evidence is ambiguous as to whether President Truman ever actually had contact with, or was even aware of, this group. As it turned out, their efforts were in vain, and Hiroshima was to receive the first atomic bomb dropped in anger. A major factor in the abortive attempt by the scientific community to forestall immediate military use of atomic energy was, in any case, moral in nature: those involved felt that the weapon was so terrible in its effects, and carried such an ominous portent for future generations and future wars, that it behooved all involved to hesitate before the abyss. Robert Oppenheimer, the "father" of the atomic bomb and scientific director of the Manhattan Project, perhaps caught the essence of these feelings when he commented shortly after the explosion at Hiroshima that "the physicists have known sin." Such sentiments carried over after the war, and with equally unavailing result, with respect to plans for developing the hydrogen bomb. Enrico Fermi and I. I. Rabi, as members of the General Advisory Committee charged with developing recommendations on further American nuclear weapons policy. argued that the creation of the hydrogen bomb "cannot be justified on any ethical grou