ted in trying to convince me that different orders would have produced better results."64 This of course was not the issue at all: Harris was not engaged in trying to convince Portal of the merits of a different strategy, he was carrying out a different strategy, despite his superior's specific instructions to the contrary. One fact previously cited conveys the essence of Harris's triumph: of the 181,000 tons of bombs dropped on Germany by Bomber Command in the last four months of the war, cities continued to represent the largest single category of target. The Sources of Harris's Independence How can we account for the charmed life that Harris seemed to lead as head of Bomber Command? He was seemingly invulnerable to criticism or pressure. Dissenting views from peers or subordinates were dismissed with a shrug; those from higher authority received a somewhat politer response but were ultimately defeated as well by Harris's stubborn resolve. In trying to sort out this puzzle, we need first to consider Harris's relationship with Churchill. Their association has been a matter of continuing controversy. 57 Harris, not unnaturally, stressed that he always had a very good working partnership with the Prime Minister, and that there was general agreement between them on the activities of Bomber Command. "I was never pressed by Mr. Churchill to do anything at his dictation, or anything with which I was not personally satisfied."65 Others have presented a more mixed picture of Churchill's attitude toward Harris. General Paget thought that "Bert Harris was the sort of buccaneer whom Churchill particularly liked," a straightforward personality who saw his duty and did it. Major Desmond Morton, on the other hand, an officer in British intelligence who was one of Churchill's inner circle, believed that "he never cared for Harris as a person," perhaps because of Harris's rather narrow personality and lack of intellectual interests outside technical problems of bombing German cit-