etter to The Times following the famous raid on the Mohne dam in the Ruhr Valley in May 1943. The letter denounced the dams raid because a pair of "ring-necked whooper swans" nested regu- larly on the lake created by the Mohne. They are almost the rarest of Europe's great birds. Has anything been heard of the fate of the Mohne pair, probably the last in Europe? And, in view of the In their time off-duty the aircrew seemed to take pleasure in removing themselves as much as possible from the reality of their normal existence.  81 Ethics and Airpower in World War II The Servants of the Realm the war effort. If we add to this the pressures to maintain group cohesion, that is, not to let the (flying) team down in extremely adverse conditions, it would have been expecting a lot for individual crew to engage in philosophical disputation on the morality of their actions. 80 rarity of these beautiful birds, why was the bombing of their home permitted? Furthermore, assuming that this operation was necessary, could it not have been deferred until the cygnets (if any) were full grown?42 The Times declined to publish this supposed defense of avian rights. Consider as well this passage from a former RAF pilot who did not serve in Bomber Command but who presumably revealed some of the basic attitudes of all the fliers. There were occasional treats [in France] when, usually contrary to orders, we would sweep down on German trucks, petrol bowsers or staff cars and riddle them with shot and shell. It was like an enjoyable day's rabbit shooting; nobody gave much thought to the human suffering we caused, for we had been at war for nearly five years and our sensitivities were dulled, at any rate in battle. It would have been hard to survive if they had not been. When it was all over we shed quicker than might have been expected the hard skin of callousness with which, quite naturally it seemed, most of us had so long covered our emotions. 43 Samuel Johnson once commented that the prospe