he General Advisory Committee charged with developing recommendations on further American nuclear weapons policy. argued that the creation of the hydrogen bomb "cannot be justified on any ethical ground which gives a human being a certain individuality and dignity even if he happens to be a resident of an enemy country." Such a bomb, they suggested, "is necessarily an evil thing considered in any light."5 At first glance, it would appear that roughly similar attitudes may have developed in the relationship between (and among) certain scientists and Bomber Command. There was the occasion in early spring 1942, for exam- ple, when Churchill's Chief Scientific Adviser, Lord Cherwell (Professor F A. Lindemann), submitted his famous paper to the Prime Minister on the "dehousing" of German workers. Cherwell offered precise calculations as to the number of bombers, the weight of bombs, and the number of sorties necessary to dehouse a critical mass of the German workers and thus break the spirit of the German population and their support of the war effort. His calculations, however, did not go unchallenged. Particularly force- ful in his objections was Sir Henry Tizard. Tizard was perhaps the most distinguished scientist of the day in the professional civil service; before the war he had been chairman of the Committee for the Study of Aerial Defence, which had proved crucial in the development of radar. Tizard wrote to Cherwell that "I am afraid that I think that the way you put the facts . .. is extremely misleading and may lead to entirely wrong decisions being reached, with a consequent disastrous effect on the war."6 Tizard questioned Cherwell's cost-gains equation, suggesting that it was out of order by a factor of five (other scientists, such as P. J. Blackett, then director 67 of Operational Research at the Admiralty, mentioned an error on the order of six). Essentially, Tizard doubted that enough bombers would be avail- able to dehouse the Germans in sufficient numbe