eously, and it is quite possible that the Nazi warmaking power in 1943 will be so widely spread throughout Europe as to be a large extent independent of the actual buildings in the homeland. A different picture would be presented if the enemy's Air Force were so far reduced as to enable heavy accurate daylight bombing of factories to take place. This however cannot be done outside the radius of fighter protection, according to what I am at present told. One has to do the best one can, but he is an unwise man who thinks there is any certain method of winning this war, or indeed any other war between equals in strength. 52 The skepticism reflected in these communications was undoubtedly fueled in part by the completion of the Butt Report, which had so effectively undermined Bomber Command's claims concerning the accuracy of its air strikes and which had been given to Churchill the previous August. The greatly changed military situation also played an important part, since it seemed to open up alternatives for crushing the Nazis that were quite different from the gloomy circumstances facing the British in the summer of 1940. The real interest of the October 2 minute, however, lies in two seeming contradictions it seems to contain when we place it within the context of the overall British war effort. There is, first of all, the apparent anomaly of Churchill's expressing skepticism about the bomber offensive while at the same time he was issuing instructions that an enormous proportion of Britain's available resources be given to Bomber Command. In July 1942, for example, he commented that "we must observe with sorrow and alarm the woeful shrinkage of our plans for Bomber expansion. ... Renewed, intense efforts should be made by the Allies to develop during the winter and onwards ever-growing, ever more accurate and ever more far-ranging bomber attacks on Germany."53 As of January 1943, there were 31 heavy bomber squadrons with some 338 aircraft available to Arthur Harri