ce On that particular night (I later discovered) a force of some 225 Lancas- ters, the main British heavy bomber during World War II, appeared over Würzberg and dropped 1,127 tons of bombs with great accuracy in a period of 17 minutes. About 90 percent of the built-up area of the city was destroyed and estimates of the number of dead varied between four and five thousand. 1 It was possible to restore the Residenz primarily because much of the outer shell of the building survived the fire caused by the bombing. Other major structures in Würzberg were also reconstructed, a painstaking process that often involved using the original stones to create an approximation of the original walls. A German fighter pilot, Wilhelm Johnen, offered his recollections of the raid on Würzberg. He remembered his co-pilot growling that "they're not even going to respect the hospital city of Würzburg. There really aren't any armaments factories there." Johnen went on to describe how bomber crews opened their bays and rained incendiaries on to the city below. The phosphorus ignited as soon as it hit the air and joined into a huge burning cloud which slowly settled on the city. It was a Dantesque and terrible sight. ... This fiery cloud knew no pity. It sank on churches and houses, palaces and citadels, broad avenues and narrow streets. At the outset burning drops spurted from the cloud causing isolated fires, then the burning veil enveloped Würzburg. In a few moments a gigantic path of flame lit up the dark night and turned the clouds to scarlet. Würzberg was burning.2 Würzberg, at the time of its ordeal, evidently did contain very little industry. particularly of military significance, and given the fact that Germany was virtually prostrate before Allied military forces at this point (the final surrender came only seven weeks later), it was hard to imagine by what calculation it could have been considered fit for destruction. Some weeks later I was in London and paid a visit to the Imperi