d obscure the latter. Thus after the early raids against Lübeck and Rostock in the spring of 1942, Secretary of State for Air Archibald Sinclair insisted that the attacks had been directed at "armament factories" rather than simply "dwelling houses," although he conceded that "it is impossible to distinguish in night bombing between the factories and the dwellings which surround them."16 A year later he continued to adhere to this position, saying that Bomber Command had been given no leave to engage in area bombing and that its targets "are always military."17 Sinclair was far from being the only govern- mental spokesman to take this tack with Parliament. For example, Lord Robert Cecil, the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs, assured the House of Lords in February 1944 that the "Royal Air Force has never indulged in pure terror raids . . . of the kind which the Luftwaffe indulged in at one time on this country."18 This effort to disguise reality found its way even into the realm of private correspondence. On November 26, 1943, the Marquess of Salisbury-head of one of the most distinguished families in Britain and a principal supporter of the RAF before the war-sent a handwritten and confidential communication to Sinclair in which he referred to Air Marshal Harris's boast about continuing to bomb Germany until "the heart of Nazi Germany ceases to beat." This would seem to bring us up short against the repeated Government declara- tion that we are bombing only military and industrial targets. . . . there is a great  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 32 The Masters of the Realm deal of evidence that makes some of us afraid that we are losing moral superiority to the Germans. . . . Of course the Germans began it, but we do not take the devil as our example. Of course all these criticisms may be groundless, but if not, issue fresh confidential orders, I hope. In a rather significant afterword, Salisbury cautioned, "Please remember that we can say nothing in publi