voided the policy of devastating whole cities and thus the obloquy that was likely to follow those who had pursued such a strategy once the war was over. More to the point, he asked the following: What are you going to find, with all the cities blasted to pieces, and with disease rampant? May not the disease, filth and poverty which will arise be almost impossible either to arrest or to overcome? I wonder very much whether it is realized at this stage. When I heard the Minister [Sir Archibald Sinclair] speak of the 'crescendo of destruction,' I thought: What a magnificent expression for a Cabinet Minister of Great Britain at this stage of the war.57 Even at this late date, the member for Ipswich was also exercised that the government seemingly continued to follow its policy of disguising the reality of the bombing policy from the British people. He observed that the famous Associated Press dispatch had been widely printed elsewhere but suppressed in Great Britain (Stokes took the liberty to read it out in full to members of the House). Symbolic of the truth of Stokes's complaint was the fact that the Secretary of State for Air ostentatiously left the House chambers before Stokes began his speech, thus removing himself from the possibility of uncomfortable queries. Some hours after Stokes had delivered his remarks, the government did offer a response from the Joint Under-Secretary of State for Air, curious in itself since Sinclair had now resumed his seat. His comments represented something of a capstone to three years of governmen- tal deception on the reality of the area offensive. We are not wasting bombers or time on purely terror tactics. It does not do the Hon. Member justice to come here to this House and suggest that there are a lot of Air Marshals or pilots or anyone else sitting in a room trying to think how many German women and children they can kill.58 Obviously Alfred Salter and Richard Stokes, together with a few others sitting in Parliament, were voic