ailed in its avowed 199 purpose. The real point is that such obstinacy removed any inclination to give Harris and his supporters the benefit of the doubt after the war. Since they were so obviously wrong in their strategic calculations, it was tempting to lay a heavy moral indictment on their methods as well. It is always interesting in evaluating a particular historical event-and at times rather essential to our understanding of it-to gauge whether the action taken may have been basically "accidental" or, on the contrary, the logical outcome of previous trends. As we have discussed earlier, one of the main themes in the defense of area bombing was that it was the result of essentially unexpected problems in navigation and protection of aircraft in daylight raids over Germany. Yet the evidence available is hardly supportive of this particular demurral concerning the morality of British bombing policy. The fact is that of all the belligerents in World War II, only Great Britain and the United States had made a strong commitment to the strategic air offensive before the conflict began, and only they decided to mount and sustain such an offensive once the war began. More to the point, in the whole interwar development of the RAF under the guidance of Trenchard and his disciples, the possibility of area bombing could be logically deduced from the thinking of British air power theorists. The official history suggests as much: "Operations between October 1944 and May 1945 were the climax of the strategic air offensive. The Bomber Command part in them represented the realization of most of the hopes and ambitions which had inspired the British Air Staff for a quarter of a century."27 If, as has been argued, this final phase of Bomber Command's operations was the most morally problematical, it will not do to say that Harris and others were essentially forced into them by unanticipated operational difficulties. This culminating period in the area offensive may indeed be trac