viding ever-expanding resources for carrying out the area offensive. The momen- tum created by their earlier decisions proved impossible to resist. Pride of Place In accounting further for the reversion of Bomber Command to the area offensive in the last year of the war-as well as its stubborn insistence on the wisdom of city attacks prior to this time-it is easy enough to focus on the unusual independence of Arthur Harris and his ability to deflect or defy the supposed desire of higher authority to adopt a different strategy. Any reasonable assessment would seem to suggest, however, that his superiors, while often exasperated by his pigheadedness and obvious distortion of the record, nevertheless retained a sneaking admiration for the fact that Bomber Command was the one service that seemed to defy the growing American domination of Allied military planning and, indeed, stood out as the one genuinely independent British contribution to the war effort. From the Prime Minister on down, there was an acute and painful realization that Britain's relative position in the world was rapidly being superceded by the much greater power of the United States. Bomber Command's stubborn insistence on going its own way was thus a reminder of an earlier period in which the British writ ruled supreme around the globe. There are a number of interrelated and rather subtle factors that need to be examined in developing this point. The first involves the ambiguous and. at times, contradictory relationship between Bomber Command and the USSAF (United States Strategic Air Forces). There was a considerable community of interests between these two groups throughout the war in that both were intent on convincing their political masters that airpower was the key to victory. This led to frequent situations in which representatives of the two groups would present a united front against the competing claims for resources made by their respective counterparts in the army and navy. The classic exa