that the Germans were headed for defeat. At the same time, the enormous buildup of American ground, naval, and air forces was apparent to all, and there was a reluctant recognition (and not just within governmental circles) that the United States was now the decisive factor in the balance of forces against the enemy. The  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 192 uon Final Reflections somewhat bitter acceptance of this new fact was reflected in the sardonic comment, widespread at the time, that the main problem with the flood of American soldiers coming to Britain was that they were "over-paid, over- sexed and over here." Yet there appeared to be one exception to this increasingly unequal relationship. Bomber Command was theoretically con- tinuing to do devastating damage to Germany. If the publicity about its exploits could be believed, it was actually performing a role as important as, if not more important than, the role of the Americans in the air campaign. Whatever the reality of these assertions, giving continued support to the efforts of Bomber Command-and to the notion that the area offensive was Germany's greatest burden-was viewed by many in government as critical to sustaining public support for the war effort after five long years. Arthur Harris, of course, had been built up as an almost mythical figure, and few in British society had either the specialized background or the inclination to doubt that he and his aircrew were indeed playing a great role in bringing the Germans to heel. It was only after the war, when a great deal of new information become available on the actual operations of Bomber Command. that widespread questioning developed about British air policy. At the time. the area offensive was seen by a great many as a symbol not only of the British genius in introducing new forms of military technology but also of British resoluteness in war-making itself. An Eye for an Eye Earlier in this essay we discussed whether British area bombing of Ger-