, only 17 of the 33 operational squadrone scheduled for Bomber Command were equipped with aircraft even theoret. ically capable of strikes against European targets from England. Aircraft based on the 1936 designs (notably the Lancaster) were not expected to be available until 1943.12 9 Given this situation, a subcommittee of the Committee on Imperial Defence seriously considered a proposal in which Britain would publiclu offer not only to refrain from any attacks on German industries in the Ruhr but even to eschew imposing a naval blockade on Germany as well. The Government rejected the idea, but there is no question that at this point, given her weaknesses in strategic airpower, British officials were of the opinion that mutually agreed-upon restrictions on bombing would be an advantage The guidelines issued to the RAF were that they were "to do nothing that might be construed as an attack on civilians and so give the enemy an excuse to do likewise."13 Britain, both within and outside government. The alluring image of a short-cut to victory through airpower may not have received a specific imprimatur in the late 1930s, but it wasn't totally rejected either. Given an as yet unforeseeable combination of circumstances, there was certainly a strong possibility that Bomber Command would eventually get a chance to show what it could do to make Trenchard's arguments come to life. In the event, this was precisely what happened. THE COMING OF THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE At precisely eleven o'clock (European summer time) on the morning of September 3, 1939, the government of Great Britain declared war on Ger- many in response to Hitler's invasion of Poland. Later that evening, some ten British Whitley bombers rolled down the runways at Linton-on-Ouse airbase in Northern England, bound for Germany. Their targets were a half-dozen cities in the Ruhr valley and the Baltic ports of Bremen and Hamburg. Shortly before daybreak, nine of the ten bombers returned to base (one aircraf