was not an explanation satisfactory to the moral critics the area offensive and, one suspects, not a totally comfortable notion with manu of its proponents as well. The notion of national character as something that does (and should) limit the measures of war remains as perhaps the most interesting of the three sources s of restraint described above. Its essence was conveyed by a certain Lord Moult of Bank, a 19th-century British parliamentarian, writing in the twilight of b career. In an essay for The Atlantic published in July 1924, Moulton distinguished between "three great domains of human action." The first was governed bu "positive law," standards established by the lawmakers and enforced by f y the coercive power of the state. A second arena of conduct involved the "domain of free choice," such as the choice of a marriage partner, in which the law had no voice and the individual enjoyed complete freedom. Finally, there was a domai in which adherence to standards could not be compelled but in which obligation were nevertheless recognized and accepted, "the obedience of a man to the which he cannot be forced to obey [but where he is] the enforcer of the law upon himself." In a compelling conclusion, Lord Moulton asserted that "the real greatness of a nation, its true civilization, is measured by the extent of obedience to the unenforceable."10 A FRAMEWORK FOR ANALYSIS As far as the subject of ethics in wartime is concerned, the difficulty, of course, is in translating Lord Moulton's dicta bearing on individual conduct into something that is relevant to nations. Even if we are able to do so. in saying that a civilized nation should accept obedience to the unenforceable 137 as morally commanding, the question becomes obedience to what? What are the standards of conduct in wartime that should be accepted and recognized by well-meaning statesmen even in the absence of coercion to make them follow such standards, and what initial assessment can be made about the are