he inhumanity of Bomber Command's strategy. On a particularly notable occasion in December 1943. he demanded to know of the Secretary of State for Air whether the govern- ment wasn't simply afraid to admit that it was now committed to the indiscriminate bombing of residential areas in Germany. Archibald Sinclair dismissed Stokes as being "incorrigible" on the subject, and the House then passed to a consideration of why airmen were forbidden to send their pajamas to service laundries.56 Richard Stokes's protestations seemed to have had little more impact on the House than those of Alfred Salter, but they remain as yet another eloquent example of the dissent that was offered by a small group of Parliamentarians. His essential proposition, as he put it, was that "women and little children are women and little children to me, wherever they live." This former military hero also expressed considerable anger at the role the aircrew of Bomber Command were forced to adopt, saying that "it fills me with absolute nausea to think of the filthy task that many of our young men are being invited to carry out." Not surprisingly, the destruction of Dresden aroused Stokes to further outrage, although in this instance his protests were received somewhat more carefully, since numerous press dispatches had spelled out for the British people what area bombing in the case of Dresden had really meant. When he rose to speak in the House of Commons on March 6, 1945, he delivered a particularly effective summation of the moral case against the area offensive. One thing gave his arguments special strength: he supported his ethical position in part by referring to quite pragmatic considerations that were even 119 then in the minds of Churchill and others. He noted that the Russians seemed to have avoided the policy of devastating whole cities and thus the obloquy that was likely to follow those who had pursued such a strategy once the war was over. More to the point, he asked the following: Wha