out ethical justification. If this assertion is accepted, it is a matter of some importance to consider why the area offensive, after a brief pause, resumed in September 1944 and maintained its intensity almost to the last days of the war. In many ways there is no issue more critical to the central purpose of this book. When both practical military considerations (the new capability for, and obvious effectiveness of, precision bombing) as well as the dictates of reasonable proportionality in British military strategy are combined, it seems almost incomprehensible that Bomber Command should have contin- ued-and been allowed to continue-its assault on German civilian life in the final months of World War II. It is well to recall, in this regard, that about 80 percent of all the bomb tonnage dropped on Germany by the Allied air forces came during the last ten months of the war. THE REASONS WHY To be sure we have already touched on some of the possible explanations for what happened, in particular the obsession of Arthur Harris with city attacks and the inability or unwillingness of his superiors to rein him in. Yet we need to probe  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 184 uo 185 Final Reflections deeper, for there are some more fundamental aspects of the situation that seem to go beyond simply command arrangements or arguments about the utility of different strategies. As with a lot of other aspects of the war effort, it may be seriously misleading to assume that in this instance the British government adopted or maintained a course of action only after rational calculation of precise costs and benefits. As Michael Sherry has written, the development of the area offensive (and other bombing in World War II) "certainly resulted from choices but not from a moment of choice. .. . If anything characterized [this] era, it was the capacity of leaders to avoid the appearance of choice."1 The Force of Momentum One factor in the resumption of the area offensive seems particular