ething in between: to take the standard evidence that does exist on the British strategic air offensive in World War II and to subject it to a special form of inquiry using some basic propositions in ethical discourse. As I have already suggested, an important focus of this essay will be on the arguments, values, and perspectives of those who either opposed or approved of British strategy at the time it was unfolding. I want to give special attention to the way in which various individuals confronted their own humanity in dealing with the issues raised by the bombing of German cities. Perhaps more than anything else this essay seeks to depict and analyze a daunting type of moral dilemma, in which there were perhaps few if any complete villains or complete heros. Indeed the drama to be presented here might be regarded without exaggeration as a type of classi- cal tragedy, in which even the strongest and most praiseworthy of individ- uals feel themselves overwhelmed by circumstances. A British scientist working in operational research for Bomber Command referred to these lines from Macbeth to express the "emptiness of the soul which allowed me to go on killing without hatred and without remorse":  xvi Ethics and Airpower in World War II . . I am in blood Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more, Returning were as tedious as go o'er. This is strong language and perhaps too strong. Yet one of the political and philosophical conundrums to be examined here is how a sensitive humanity in the modern era can meet challenges to basic civilized values without at the same time undermining those very values in the process of defending them. PART I BACKGROUND  1 The Crescendo of Bombing "Then rose the seed of Chaos, and of Night To blot out order and extinguish light." -Alexander Pope This is a book about the evolution of an idea: the use of airpower by one country to impose its will on another. We might begin with two historical references. On June 23, 1812, Emperor Napoleo