military, in a typical prewar year. One estimate is that Britain assigned anywhere from 40 to 50 percent of her military output to the RAF, which meant that only 50 to 60 percent was left for the navy and army combined. A rather significant admission of this basic commitment was provided by Sir James Grigg. Secretary of State for War, in a statement to the House of Commons in March 1944. Grigg indicated that the "RAF programme is already employing more workpeople than the Army programme, and I daresay that there are, in fact. as many engaged on making heavy bombers as on the whole Army pro- gramme."28 Professor A. V. Hill of Cambridge, a distinguished scientist and former official at Whitehall, put the issue in stark terms as early as February 1942: "The disaster of this policy [emphasizing heavy bombers] is not only that it is futile but that it is extremely wasteful, and will become increasingly wasteful as time goes on."29 In terms of pure cost effectiveness, the resources the Germans gave to air defense and to reconstructing damaged factories and railways were on balance distinctly less than the resources given to Bomber Command to inflict the damage in the first place. A macabre statistic is that. on average, it took almost three tons of British bombs to kill one German civilian. Over the whole war, the average result of a single British bomber sortie was less than three dead Germans, of whom perhaps one was a production worker.30 Airpower Options One way in which to approach the question of alternatives available to the British government is to suggest that there needn't have been so much emphasis on the bombers in the first place. Putting it this way serves as a rebuttal to one of the standard arguments of those favoring the area offensive, which was that the campaign against German cities was a military necessity. There is an equally powerful case to be made against the idea of military necessity if we can demonstrate that, even given the British emphasis on