lians in their homes." Typical of its efforts was a pamphlet produced in 1943 entitled Stop Bombing Civilians. Questions were raised in the House of Commons about the government's willingness to provide paper (scare in wartime) for such a publication, and one Conser- vative MP actually demanded that the members of BRC be interned for the duration of the war. Given her talent with the pen, however, it was not surprising that Brittain gave most of her attention to composing books and articles that laid out the particulars of her indictment of government policy. An early effort in this regard was the "Letter to Peace-Lovers," begun in September 1939 and eventually achieving a circulation of slightly under 2,000 in England and abroad. The letter was supported both by subscribers and donations and included among its readers some members of the government, including a future Colonial Secretary. It continued throughout the war and even for two years after. Aside from the letter, Brittain produced several books during the war that marked her out as one of the most articulate-and, for many, most objectionable-critics of the British air offensive. For example, a small volume entitled England's Hour, which appeared in 1941, was greeted with unconcealed disdain on the part of most reviewers because of its plea for  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 124 The Subjects of the Realm forgiveness and humanity. As Brittain recalled, "emotional, egotistical, sentimental and hysterical were only a few of the adjectives hurled at me like a prepared collection of verbal rotten eggs." Perhaps her best-known wartime writing was Humiliation With Honour, published the following year. The book consisted of letters composed to her son John and was dedicated to the "victims of power." She attacked the current cult of toughness and contempt for "squeamishness" that seemed then to be prevalent among so many in Britain. In describing her own philosophy, she argued that it is better to suffer disad