t was crucial to any precision bombing campaign. In pondering all this, however, Arthur Harris saw no need to abandon his long-held belief in the essential correctness of the area bombing strategy. As he put it, "I strongly objected to stopping the [area] offensive for which we had worked for five years." He dismissed the earlier success of Allied bombers in attacking oil targets by saying that "what the Allied strategists did was to bet on an outsider and it happened to win the race."40 He remained skeptical of what he called "panacea targets," that is, supposed chokepoints in German war industry whose destruction could be decisive. In the months that followed, the chief of the Air Staff, Sir Charles Portal, repeatedly urged Harris to join with the Americans in a precision bombing campaign against Germany. Harris strongly implied that he would resign rather than accept any significant limitations on his renewal of the area offensive, and he stubbornly continued to stress his own priorities. In the last three months of 1944, the British dropped more bombs on Germany than in the whole of 1943, and some 53 percent of these were delivered on cities compared to 14 percent directed at oil facilities and about 15 percent on transportation targets. Earlier Harris had established a list of 60 German cities that he intended to destroy, the accomplishment of which, he believed, would effectively end the war. By December, Harris's list of cities ripe for destruction had been pretty well translated into reality. Bomber Command had devastated or seriously damaged 80 percent of all German urban areas with populations of more than 100,000. This exercise in destruction continued even into the spring of 1945, with almost 40 percent of British bombing being directed at city targets.41 The most famous (or notorious) of these attacks was undoubtedly the raid on Dresden on the night of February 13. It has already been remarked how  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 20 The Crescendo of