that Bomber Command had become by this point. At long last, however, the RAF Air Staff issued a directive on April 16 that officially ended Bomber Command's strategic air offensive against Germany. Harris accepted this directive on the practical grounds that there were essentially no more area targets to be attacked in Germany. OVERVIEW In all Bomber Command launched some 390,000 sorties against Germany in the entire course of the war, with area attacks accounting for about 70 percent of the total effort. Some 8,900 British aircraft were destroyed in the conflict, and approximately one million tons of bombs were dropped on the enemy. During the war, about 125,000 men and women joined Bomber Command, either as aircrew or ground support personnel. Of this number about 56,000 (almost all officers and NCOs) lost their lives, about half that were injured, and more than 11,000 taken prisoner, for an overall casualty rate of about 76 percent. The sacrifice in officers alone was greater than what the British suffered in the whole of World War I.46 As to the destruction visited on Germany, it is estimated that over 500,000 German civilians lost their lives to Allied bombing. Perhaps another 1,000,000 received serious injury. Around three million homes were destroyed. And, of course, Ger- many lost the war. The connection between the last sentence and the preceding statistics is a matter that requires some careful consideration. As Albert Einstein once commented, "Not everything that counts can be counted, and not everything that can be counted counts." One recalls Robert Southey's famous lines about an earlier application of military power, the Battle of Blenheim in 1704. Winston Churchill's esteemed ancestor, the Duke of Marlborough (John Churchill), defeated the French on a field in Bavaria at a cost of 12,500 dead and wounded (about a quarter of the victorious army). The French suffered  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 22 some 40,000 casualties (almost half of their a