troduction of the strategic bomber led to "a crisis in the law of war, and a process of barbarization such as had not been seen in Europe since the second half of the seventeenth century."33 This reference to the barbarization of the means of war is fairly common in analyses of the area offensive and deserves a little elaboration. We have said that the British bombing of Germany actually represented not an introduction but more exactly a re-introduction of the concept of total war. A comparison is often made in this context between World War II and the Thirty Years War. The essential argument is that the latter represented a particularly horrific example of total war in operation, and its calamities were such that the European state system resolved henceforward to establish at least some restraint on the methods of warfare. Certainly the Thirty Years War (1618-1648) provided a most sobering example of what unlimited war could produce. There was, for example, the sack of Magdeburg in 1631 by the army of Tilly, in which some 30,000 citizens of the town were system- atically put to the sword. It is estimated that overall one-third of the German population succumbed during the fighting.  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 202 uou Final Reflections After this disaster one can observe at least an attempt by the European powers to limit warfare in the interests of all concerned. Naturally, this was hardly an even and unbroken process, and during the Napoleonic period in particular there were horrors (e.g., in the Peninsular campaign in Spain) that echoed those of an earlier era. Nevertheless, the overall effort seemed to be in the direction of establishing certain guidelines that would prevent the catastrophe of unrestrained conflict. The struggle of 1914-1918 put a severe strain on this enterprise, but even then there was a reluctance-at least among some of the participants-to open the Pandora's box of totally unlimited warfare. As late as June 1917, for example, when Lo