ity of their idealism. To be sure,  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 114 The Subjects of the Realm they were quite naive about the real nature of the world, and the ways in which war necessarily had to be conducted, but all the same they deserved at least some credit for their consistency. Bell, on the other hand, often couched his criticism of area bombing at least partly on grounds of military efficiency. Since he felt the devastation of German cities was not efficient in winning the war, he was all the more aroused by the moral repugnancy of such a policy. His opponents were in this sense given a very large opening for riposte, which they eagerly seized. Bell was essentially accused of hypocrisy-the charge was that he wasn't really against killing large num- bers of Germans but simply wanted to do it in a particular way. Moreover, who was he to set himself up as a military expert? Wiser (military) heads than he were convinced that the bombing was indeed crippling the German war effort. Should he be respected as a saver of strategy just because he was also an accomplished saver of souls? All of this George Bell had to contend with, yet in retrospect he stands out as perhaps the most incisive voice protesting area bombing. In fact, one suspects that one of the reason his arguments aroused so much anger was that his critics were uncomfortably aware that he was offering a fairly sophisticated and measured critique of the bombing strategy, one that could not be set aside so easily as that coming from innocents such as the pacifists. Bell accepted the so-called real world and indeed operated in it. His essential argument, however, was that pursuit of a just cause did not legitimate any methods, that good ends did justify bad means. This was hardly a radical position to take, except perhaps in the fevered atmosphere of wartime. Bell deserves considerable praise for being determined to stick to it. One of the reasons for the patriotic outrage at Bell's stance during t