as the most prominent and his case will be considered in detail later on. The Bishop of Birmingham, the Moderator of the Church of Scotland, and the Methodist leader Donald Soper were others who expressed their concerns about the 97 very concept of the area offensive, as did Cosmo Gordon Lang, Archbishop of Canterbury from 1928 to January 1942. The small Quaker community in Great Britain added their voice to these protests, particularly in the form of the Bombing Restriction Committee organized by T. Corder Catchpool. Even if most clergy felt unable to go so far as to flatly condemn area bombing, however, it remains that a number of them were troubled by the implications of a strategy that seemed to eliminate all traditional distinc- tions in just war theory between combatant and non-combatant as well as proportionality in the means of warfare. An early indication of this concern came in 1940, when a group of pacifist leaders asked the Archbishops of Canterbury and York at what point the Church would rather see the war lost rather than won with methods that were totally inconsistent with Christianity. Their reply was that when the bombing of "open towns" was undertaken, not as a reprisal but as a regular national policy, such a divide would have been reached. Perhaps the most bizarre interaction between British bombing policy and the British clergy came during the tenure of the Reverend John Collins as the official Chaplain for Bomber Command. After the war Collins became a prominent figure in the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND), which was opposed to any nuclear weapons for Britain, and his general attitude toward Bomber Command can be seen in his description of High Wycombe: Bomber Command Headquarters was perhaps the most soul-destroying, the most depressing of the . .. places in which I had to serve. For there, in contrast with the natural beauty of the surroundings, the evil . . . policy of the carpet bombing of German' cities was planned.22 When Arthur H