ation that he planned to change his operational orders to his aircrew. A week later Portal responded with some further gentle nudging: You refer to a plan for the destruction of the sixty leading German cities, and to your efforts to . . . exceed your average of two and a half such cities devastated each month; I know that you have long felt such a plan to be the most effective way of bringing about the collapse of Germany. Knowing this, I have, I must confess, at times wondered whether the magnetism of the remaining German cities has not in the past tended as much to deflect our bombers from their primary objectives as the tactical and weather difficulties which you described so fully in your letter of 1 November. I would like you to reassure me that this is not so. If I knew you to be as wholehearted in the attack on oil as in the past you have been in the matter of attacking cities, I would have little to worry about.63 A month later Harris, seemingly oblivious of Portal's efforts to rein him in, wrote again expressing skepticism about the value of the oil offensive and referring, as always, to the illusion of attacking panacea targets. Portal answered by saying that he was "profoundly disappointed that you still appear to feel that the oil plan is just another 'panacea' . .. Naturally, while you hold this view you will be unable to put your heart into the attack on oil." Harris responded with asperity that "I am sorry that you should doubt [my willingness to follow orders], and surprised indeed if you can point to any precedent in support of your statement. I can certainly quote precedent in the opposite sense." In a subsequent communication, Harris threw down the gauntlet quite directly, saying that he had no faith in precision bombing "and none whatever in this present oil policy." He then played his final card. I will not willingly lay myself open again to the charge that the lack of a success of a policy which I have declared at the outset [does] not contain