traditional military targets such as airfields, command-and-control centers, missile silos, and so forth. Even here, however, the degree of collateral damage (that is, destruction of civilians) that would have been occasioned by even a limited nuclear strike threatened to be enormous. Daniel Ellsberg recalls how appalled he was by his experience working on nuclear targeting policy at the Pentagon in the early 1960s. At that time, the plans of the Joint Chiefs of Staff basically envisaged the total devasta- tion of the Soviet Union with an all-out strike designed to kill millions of civilians. Ellsberg, in his typically flamboyant language, attributed such thinking to a "mad dog" mentality within the military leadership, especially the Air Force generals, "who subscribed to the Douhet theory . . . of waging total war from the air."38 Now Ellsberg is a rather controversial figure, and there are many who may question his bona fides in criticizing a strategy that, after all, he himself was involved in developing at the time. The point remains that the very conceivability of destroying a large city (or number of cities) in a matter of a half-hour in the interests of "national security" and in pursuance of a "just cause"-defeating Nazi or Soviet aggression- has to be regarded as having its roots in the systematic devastation of German cities in World War II. Before that war began, such a policy was generally regarded as inconceivable. Later it turned out to be quite con- ceivable indeed. This change in the realm of the thinkable made it all the more easy to devise even more apocalyptic military polices that, in an earlier age, would have been dismissed as beyond the pale of what demo cratic societies could legitimately do in war. The echos of area bombing have indeed resonated loud and long.39 The Failure of Imagination When the young British climber Andrew Irving was asked in the 1920s why he wanted to scale Mount Everest, his immortal reply was, "Because it's there." Ju