nct concern about avoiding any unnecessary harm to enemy civilians. For example, in November 1939, the War Cabinet secretly considered a plan for bombing targets in the Ruhr in response to a German invasion of Belgium,  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 10 11 The Crescendo of Bombing but there was great reluctance to do so because of the expected effect on the The factors in this self-restraint were varied. As already mentioned. Bomber Command hardly had the resources at this point to undertake a major strategic bombing effort against Germany. There was also concern about the reaction of the rest of the world, and especially of the United States, to a major aerial assault on Germany that would put civilians at risk. On Septem- ber 1, 1939, President Roosevelt had addressed an appeal to all the belligerent powers calling for a restriction of aerial warfare to specifically military targets. The French and British announced their acceptance of this standard on the following day, and the Germans added their assent as well on September 18th.16 The Nazi motivation in doing so was clear enough: their concern that in an unrestrained contest of strategic bombing, Germany might well be at a disadvantage. As Hitler himself said, "the guiding principle must be not to provoke the initiation of aerial warfare by any action on the part of Germany" (a somewhat striking statement in view of the prewar fears in Great Britain about the German threat to British cities). 17 civilian population. 15 What may be regarded as a period of innocence for Bomber Command during the first eight months of the war came to a close on May 15, 1940 when in a directive signed by Winston Churchill, who had replaced Neville Chamberlain a few days earlier, the RAF was now authorized to attack lan targets east of the Rhine. The spur to this decision was evidently a reduced concern about the possibilities of German retaliation on British cities as wel as the fact that at least some strategic bombing of the