sh Jews would have been subjected to the same fate as their co-religionists on the Continent.21 But was German victory over Great Britain ever imminent, or more to the point, was it imminent in February 1942, the start of the area offensive? It seems possible to adopt one of two positions on this matter, the first of which is fairly categorical and the other somewhat more reserved. There is a lot to be said for the argument that if a supreme emergency ever did face Great Britain-in the sense of impending defeat by the Germans-it peaked in the summer of 1940 and rapidly ebbed after that time. Even though Britain had managed to extricate over 300,000 men from the beaches of Dunkirk, virtually all of their equipment was left behind, and the estimate was that there remained only two fully-armed divisions in the country itself to resist a German assault. Churchill and his advisers began to consider plans for moving the government to Canada in such an event. After a brief delay, Hitler ordered that preparations for the invasion of Britain, codenamed Operation Sea Lion, proceed with all due speed. He established as a prerequisite for the attack, however, that the RAF be essentially eliminated as a threat to the German invasion forces. In considering the last point, it can be argued that September 15, 1940, represented the end of the crisis facing Britain. This was the climactic day  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 148 149 Standards and Principles in the Battle of Britain, the campaign by the Luftwaffe to nullify British airpower. After Fighter Command had inflicted heavy losses on the attack- ing German aircraft, with comparatively modest damage to its own, Hitler ordered the Luftwaffe to concentrate on the bombing of British cities at night rather than targeting the assets of the RAF in daytime. Shortly after September 15, he further directed that all preparations for the invasion be suspended. His mind now became increasingly focused on the coming campaign against Ru