t of the Rhine. The spur to this decision was evidently a reduced concern about the possibilities of German retaliation on British cities as wel as the fact that at least some strategic bombing of the enemy seemed at this point to be one of the few ways in which the British could carry the war to the enemy, a consideration that acquired particular currency after the evac uation at Dunkirk. For approximately the next two years Bomber Command undertook a steadily widening series of strikes against the German homeland. At th official level the stated emphasis was on what were called precision or selective attacks against carefully defined military and industrial objectives (the German oil industry, communications, and aircraft plants, for exam- ple). There were further references to the necessity of sparing civilians as much as possible. An instruction from the War Cabinet to the Air Ministry in early June 1940, for example, stressed that air attacks "must be made with reasonable care to avoid undue loss of civil life in the vicinity of the target."18 At the same time, what would come to be called "area bombing." or generalized assaults on urban targets, was, like Banquo's ghost, never very far from the proceedings. As early as October 1940, the Air Staff issued a new directive that oil targets should be attacked on clear night but that whole cities could at least be considered as alternative targets in less favorable weather. In December 1940, what is generally considered the first open British effort at area bombing came with an attack on the city of Mannheim, a raid specifically described as a retaliation for the earlier German assault on Coventry. Perhaps the principal voice calling for a less restrained approach to Bomber Command's activities was that of the Prime Minister himself. As far back as July 1940, he had written to Lord Beaverbrook, Minister for Aircraft Production, that there was only one thing that would bring Hitler down, and that was "an absolutely d