ing in its most intense form from the fall of 1940 to the spring of 1941, the Blitz eventually resulted in some 50,000 tons of bombs being dropped on British cities, which led to about 40,000 civilian deaths. Given this record of events, it was not hard to argue that after all the Germans had indeed sowed the wind and now were to reap the whirlwind. The Prime Minister himself sometimes seemed to suggest that even though he person- ally had little desire as such for revenge, the British people did expect retaliation in kind. In a flight of hyperbole he commented that the people now demanded that all Germans should be massacred or castrated. He told the House of Commons that "on every side is the cry, 'We can take it,' but with it is also the cry, 'Give it them back.">23 In effect, Churchill's argument seemed to be that in order to sustain the nation's morale, it was necessary to do unto others as they were doing to Britain. It is hard to gauge how significant a factor the calls for pure retribution were in the February 14 directive to Bomber Command. As it happens however, there was a key operational factor confronting the government in early 1942 that may be seen as pushing the RAF toward a strategy of area bombing quite on its own. It became apparent early in the war that the lack of sufficient fighter support, and the growing effectiveness of German ai defenses, presented the RAF with the prospect of prohibitive losses if attempted to attack German targets in daylight. As a matter of policy, the Bomber Command by the spring of 1940 had come to concentrate almost entirely on nighttime bombing of the enemy. Could such raids achieve a sufficient accuracy to allow the targeting of precise military objectives? For a time, the analysts at Bomber Command attempted to maintain the fiction that such was possible, but the evidence as it accumulated seriously undermined their case and was dealt a particular blow by the so-called Butt Report of August 1941. At the behest of L