ander of the Eighth Air Force, asserted that "we should never allow the history of this war to convict us of throwing the strategic bomber at the man in the street."6 Despite this pious stance, however, the United States, particularly in the last year of the war, did engage in general area attacks on German cities. American aircraft participated, for example, in the destruction of Dresden in February 1945. They also staged a series of area attacks on the Ruhr (or what was left of it). Berlin was bombed on February 3 in an assault that may have taken as many as 25,000 lives. Under Operation Clarion, Amer- ican planes sought out targets in smaller German towns and villages whose populations had so far been spared air attacks. Such raids were justified as likely to produce a "stupefying effect" on the morale of those attacked.7  Ethics and Airpower in World War II xiv Preface And, of course, there was the American fire-bombing of Japanese cities, notably the March 9, 1945 raid on Tokyo (in which 300 B-29s destroyed over 16 square miles of the city), as well as the atomic devastation of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. I would suggest, then, that American readers have a good deal to reflect on themselves as they consider this study of the moral issues involved in British bombing in World War II. This is even more the case given various controversies that have arisen over the use of American airpower in the years since 1945. There was the debate that developed in this country, for example, about the use of American air strikes in Vietnam. More recently there has been some heated discussion about the number of Iraqi civilian casualties in the 1991 Gulf War as a consequence of American bombing attacks. There was also the increasing furor in the 1980's over the morality of American nuclear targeting doctrine, in particular the American strategy of putting millions of Soviet citizens at risk as part of the concept of deterrence. In suggesting that these debates (and others) were in m