mmand is given in retrospect a function which, operationally, it could not have performed.24 This is fine as far as it goes, but of course the issue was just a bit more complicated than that. Perhaps the only type of strategic bombing that Britain could do in the middle period of the war was area bombing, but was strategic bombing itself a military necessity? Frankland, for one leaves little doubt as to his views on the matter. "The alternative to area bombing was either no strategic bombing or daylight bombing. In the circumstances of the time, the idea of abandoning strategic bombing was scarcely a practicable proposition."25 This seems pretty strongly stated. Why was the idea of abandoning strategic bombing (at least temporarily) such an impracticable proposition? Consider this comment from a fairly important source, the British Prime Minister. Churchill stated in July 1942 that In the days when we were fighting alone, we answered the question: "How are you going to win the war?" by saying: "We will shatter Germany by bombing." Since then the enormous injuries inflicted on the German Army and manpower by the Russians, and the accession of the manpower and munitions of the United States, have rendered other possibilities open.26 These other possibilities included diverting the aircrew of the RAF from attacking Germany to direct support of the ground campaign in North Africa OBLIGATIONS If the bombing of German cities can not be defended in terms of an unequivocal military necessity, the obvious question is why it proceeded nonetheless. At this point, it is necessary to give a little more attention to the very notion of military necessity. The concept is usually framed in terms of what measures are necessary to gain victory, presumably in a just cause. Yet for some this definition is too narrow. They would assert that necessity implies anything that will have the effect of limiting suffering to one's own forces and, a connected matter, will bring victory as rapidly