ns. He seemed to be genuinely appalled by the continual "Cologning" of German cities and, paradoxically, his ethical outrage could perhaps be seen as consistent with his earlier support of the air offensive. That position after all had been heavily influenced by his revulsion at the mindless trench slaughter of World War I (he himself served for some months at the front and participated in the Battle of the Somme) and more generally by his virtual obsession with finding a means of conflict that would avoid the slide from limited to total war. To be sure, Liddell Hart had seemed to condone area attacks in his earlier writings, but only on the basis that these might prove militarily decisive and in a short period of time. Given his later conclusions that Bomber Command's operations were not There are two other aspects to Liddell Hart's views on the area offensive that, for some, might call into question his being awarded the moral high ground. In the first place he felt an unremitting personal hostility toward Winston Churchill. Before the war he had gone so far as to question whether Churchill's power for evil wasn't potentially greater than his power for good: «his almost unique egocentricity, his dramatic sense, his lack of scruple, and his lack of judgement, make a combination that might be destined to lead this country to disaster." This antipathy may well have caused him to criticize the efforts of Bomber Command at least partly because the airmen were the favored creatures of the Prime Minister for much of the war. In his papers, Liddell Hart noted a conversation with General Sir Frederick Pile, Britain's air defense chief, in which Pile allegedly said that "Winston is pinning all his faith to the bombing offensive now. The devastation it causes suits his temperament, and he he would be disappointed at a less destructive ending to the war."38 This seems a remarkably bitter, and perhaps unfair, description of Churchill's attitude toward violence. In any case, Li