take, except perhaps in the fevered atmosphere of wartime. Bell deserves considerable praise for being determined to stick to it. One of the reasons for the patriotic outrage at Bell's stance during the war was the fact that the true character of the area offensive was systematically concealed from the British public. When the reality of British bombing policy (not to mention its doubtful military utility) was revealed in consid- erable detail after the war, Bell's moral opposition assumed much greater credibility. Liddell Hart spoke to this point in the obituary that he penned on the occasion of Bell's death in 1979. "The wisdom and foresight of George Bell's wartime speeches in the House of Lords .. . have now come to be widely recognized-and especially by military historians of the war. Hardly anyone would now question the truth of his repeated warnings about the folly of the Allies' unconditional surrender formula. ... George Bell, standing for the principles of his creed, came to achieve a far clearer grasp of grand strategy than did the statesmen."52 His stance had its price, not just in strained relations with many colleagues and with his parishioners, but in terms of his own professional advancement, 115 especially after the war. Paradoxically, his fate was in some ways a mirror opposite of that of Sir Arthur Harris. The latter was snubbed at the end of the war because he was so closely identified with area bombing. Bell was snubbed because he was so closely identified with opposition to area bomb- ing. Under normal circumstances, he would have been in line to succeed Temple as Archbishop of Canterbury, but in the event, he never achieved such exalted status (the post instead went to the Bishop of London, Geoffrey Fisher). The evidence is that his trouble-making during the war caused a sufficient number to regard him as unsound that his prospects were perma- nently stifled. The lesson seemed to be that it was acceptable to have been involved in and supportiv