ions, to sustain the morale of its own aircrew until the German surrender. This achievement is all the more remarkable when we draw up actuarial tables for those joining Bomber Command during the war. Aircrew were normally required to fly 30 missions before they were offered other duties. There were some who, after a period of stand-down, volunteered for an additional 20 missions. For much of the war, to attempt 30 sorties over Germany, or even the occupied territories, was virtually to sign one's own death warrant. The British radar specialist R. V. Jones summarized the situation as follows: One could hardly contemplate what our bomber crews were up against. They frequently had to fly about 800 miles through the German defences, at a speed  77 The Servants of the Realm Ethics and Airpower in World War II 76 less than 200 miles an hour, and at any time they were liable to unexpected attack. The chances of surviving a tour of thirty operations in Bomber Command in 1943 were about one in six, but morale never faltered.31 down. Those who did waver were disciplined under the rubric LMF, or "Lacking Moral Fibre," and were officially styled as "Waverers." To be dismissed or reassigned to other duties under a LMF indictment, to be a Waverer, was considered a moral blot on one's record (symbolized by the removal of the individual's flying brevet), and the possibility of such a fate provided at least negative reinforcement to do one's duty. . The overall odds on a person's joining Bomber Command and surviving the war totally unscathed was about one in five. Once assigned to an aircraft, the average individual had a service life of about 40 days. The picture that presents itself is of thousands of young men crowded together on dank air bases in East Anglia, waiting for assignments that almost inevitably would spell either death, injury, or a long period as a prisoner of war. In "Lincolnshire Bomber Station," a pilot named Henry Treece penned some lines that seemed to catch th