n the Home Guard, wrote a remonstrative letter to his good friend Captain Basil Liddell Hart, the distinguished British military historian. Brophy was particularly aroused by Liddell Hart's argument that British wartime conduct was hardly morally superior to that of the Germans. While admitting that certain wicked things had been (and were being) done in the interests of victory, Brophy heatedly denied any comparison between German and British standards of behavior: "Taken as a whole the British [record] is morally clean, and the German filthy. The concentration camps alone are enough to indict the Nazis. I stick to the general proportion, and I see the British with all their faults as the most civilized and innocent nation in the world."1 A rather similar sentiment was expressed by a regional information officer (RIO) of the British Ministry of Information in April 1941. The RIOs were local officials charged with distributing and supporting the government's approved line on British military policy. In this instance, the RIO strongly objected to instructions from the ministry on how to represent the actions of Bomber Command to his constituents. He was told to stress that the government, in developing its bombing strategy, didn't want to make the "mistake" of diverting its efforts from key military targets to attacks on "secondary targets" (i.e., cities). The point to be emphasized was that simply killing civilians was not militarily efficient. The RIO demanded to know if this was really the only reason that could (or should)  89 The Subjects of the Realm Ethics and Airpower in World War II strategic bombing."3 To be sure, the evidence available earlier about the extent of Nazi atrocities was not as clear-cut, but enough was known to make it understandable that a general unfeeling toughness might develop toward the suffering of Germans who had tolerated or even abetted such abuses in the first place. 88 be given for not smashing German cities. "Why must Government a