r the period March-July 1943, there were a total of 43 main raids. Virtually all the major urban centers of the Ruhr suffered badly as result, with the city of Barmen-Wuppertal, for example experiencing the destruction of almost 90 percent of its built-up area during a raid on Ma 29. Bomber Command's efforts during the so-called Battle of the Rok amply demonstrated that it had developed a raw striking power greater the that heretofore displayed by any of the world's major air forces. The pilot themselves seemed to view with some awe the nature of the enterprise which they were embarked. On looking down upon the burning spectacle of the Ruhr one night, one man commented that "the clouds were life cottonwool soaked in blood."33 Such emotions were presumably also in evidence during the second major event of the area offensive during this period, the Battle of Hamburg. Hamburg was the recipient of 33 major air attacks (code-named Opera- tional Gomorrah) from July to November 1943. The night raids on July 24, July 27, and July 29 represented the apex of the assault on Hamburg. In each instance well over 700 bombers from the RAF rained a combination of incendiary and explosive bombs on the central city area of Hamburg. Approximately 74 percent of the most densely populated area of the city was destroyed. About 50,000 people were killed in these attacks, and around one million refugees fled to safer outlying areas.34 Perhaps the most noted aspect of the Hamburg raids was the phenomenon of the firestorm, which produced hurricane-type winds of 150 MPH and sucked people, trees, even whole buildings into the center of the flames. The Police President of Hamburg summarized the fate of his city this way: Its horror is revealed in the howling and raging of the firestorms, the hellish noise of exploding bombs and the death cries of martyred human beings as well as in the big silence after the raids. Speech is impotent to portray the measure of the horror, which shook the people fo