than a handful of prominent British citizens pontificated [sic] about the immorality of reprisal attacks on German cities." Ironically, in fact, one of the objections to Zuckerman's Transportation Plan was that it would involve a large number of civilian casualties among the friendly populations of France and the Low Countries (since the relevant targets were generally located within urban areas). We will return to this issue in a different context later on but suffice it to say here that Zuckerman seemingly saw little reason for questioning the Transportation Plan on the grounds of its possible effect on civilians. Once again, it was calculations of pure military efficiency that drove his thinking. There is little evidence that had he been convinced on instrumental grounds that the area offensive was militarily more effective, he would have shrunk from supporting such a strategy. Zuckerman's essentially utilitarian approach to matters of bombing strat- egy in World War II is amply illustrated by his review of a notable book on questions of morality and bombing that appeared in 1985.18 He declares, as a general matter, that "declarations of morality in international affairs almost inevitably become overshadowed by the realities. . . . moral principles about the possible killing of civilians were [never] a consideration that consciously affected the choice of targets in the implementation of some particular bombing plan." He takes pains to suggest that the USAAF's concentration on precision bombing in World War II had more to do with the Americans air force's desire to carve out an independent role for itself than with "the American air generals wrestling with their souls about the morality of their actions." Zuckerman also notes with some asperity that the United States engaged in area bombing against Japan with a fervor matching that demon- strated by British Bomber Command against Germany. In sum, it is clear that Zuckerman, now as then, feels no need to offer mor