re was also the fact that simply destroying a large number of buildings in the target area did not necessarily result in an equivalent falloff in arms production. As the USSBS put it, "The destruction of buildings . . . did not involve a proportionate destruction of vital machine tools and, as it turned out, the enemy was able to salvage such tools and to resume production at a far more rapid rate than had been anticipated."15 This is not to say that the area offensive didn't have at least some effect on the German allocation of resources, particularly in diverting such resources from other operations. Sir Arthur Tedder estimates, for example that anti-aircraft defenses absorbed almost 600,000 men by 1943 and about 900,000 by 1944. He suggests that anti-aircraft guns took around 30 percent of total German weapons production." Even we accept these claims, however, the essential fact remains that during the first major phase of Bomber Command's assault on Germany, dating roughly from the spring of 1942 to the spring of 1944, German output of war materials, far from declining, actually increased steadily. For example, construction of aircraft of all types went from approximately 15,000 in 1942 to about 40,000 in 1944. Production of tanks increased sixfold. Overall output of weapons and ammunition peaked in the summer of 1944, reaching almost three times the level achieved at the beginning of 1942." Production rates declined rapidly after August 1944, but, as will be discussed later, this was due not to the area offensive but to precision attacks against the German energy and transportation systems. The USSBS reference to "anticipated" results from the bombing offensive against Germany raises a critical point: to what extent can we, in retrospect, challenge Bomber Command's strategy in the air war? In other words, it was anticipated that area bombing would have a substantial impact on German war production. In the event, the actual results were far less than expected, y