overnmental authority and the handing over of the fate of the German people to the arbitrary judgment of the victors. One can hardly conceive of a formula more likely to restrain defeatist impulses among demoralized Germans than this one. Certainly German Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels couldn't, and considering the source, his reactions to the Allies' insistence on uncondi tional surrender is a significant one. He had written in his diary in March 1942 that If I were on the enemy side, I should from the very first day have adopted the slogan of fighting against Nazism, but not against the German people. That is how Chamberlain began on the first day of the war, but, thank God, the English didn't pursue this line.5 After Casablanca, Goebbels expressed his further relief that "the English are making the same mistake . . . of not saying anything tangible about their war aims. I can only add, thank God; for if they were to put up a peace programme on the lines of Wilson's Fourteen Points they would undoubtedly create difi. culties for us."6 What difficulties might have been created for him and the other Nazi leaders by a different Allied approach to peace terms may be inferred from the effect the Casablanca declaration had in undermining the German opposition movement at the time. After the German disaster at Stalingrad, there were serious discussions among dissident elements in the General Staff as well in the civilian opposition about a coup against the Nazi regime and the establishment of a new All in all, then, the morale thesis was basically a chimera that received a rather ritualistic obeisance from many supporters of Bomber Command but can hardly be considered as a morally legitimate objective of the area offensive since its military relevance was quite undeveloped and indeed impossible to demonstrate. Lord Cherwell's famous minute about the dehousing of German workers and the effect this would have on the German war effort stands as a prime piece of evidenc