attacks against Britain, for example, tended to be concentrated in areas that had been least affected by German bombing. A Gallup Poll published early in May 1941 showed that the most determined demands for revenge came from Cumber- land, Westmorland, and the North Riding of Yorkshire, which were rural areas barely touched by bombs, whereas in Central London there were far fewer individuals who simply wanted to punish the Germans for their sins.17 The British Institute of Public Opinion took a similar poll a month earlier and found that "sentiment in favour of reprisals is almost in inverse ratio to the amount of bombing experienced."18 Typical of those who viewed the area offensive (at least partly) more in sorrow than in anger, even while accepting its basic legitimacy, was a certain Brigadier Cecil Aspinall-Oglander. In a letter to The Times on May 1, 1942, he criticized the sometimes gloating attitude that he perceived in publicity about the bombing of Germany: Britain and her Allies and well-wishers must all be devoutly thankful that the RAF is at last able to repay Germany in her own coin and to inflict upon her cities the same devastation that she has inflicted on ours. But it must offend the sensibilities of a large mass of the British population that our official broadcasts, when reporting these acts of just retribution, should exult at and gloat over the suffering which our raids necessitate. . . . Let us at least preserve the decencies of English taste. An Englishman does not exult when a criminal is condemned to the scaffold, nor gloat over his sufferings at the time of his execution. 19 In describing and assessing what might be called middle-of-the-road British opinion on the area bombing offensive, some particularly interesting material is to be found in the stance taken by members of the British religious community toward the bombing. One representative effort by religious leaders to deal with the issues raised by the war was the establishment in Augu