n with the majority of people, with its implication that the German civilian "deserved" everything that was delivered to him. As Mass Observation (a leading opinion survey) observed. "Few people think the crimes of war should be visited on the ordinary citizens of Germany." One factor that likely contributed to this relatively restrained public opinion was the memory of greatly exaggerated stories of German atrocities circulated by British propaganda in World War I. This caused people to view with some skepticism any statements about the inherently evil characteristics of the enemy (ironically, such stories had far more basis in fact in the second war than in the first). The British government displayed some concern about the lack of a suitably anti-German attitude among the British people. In the so-called Anger Campaign, which took place early in the war, the govern- ment attempted to arouse feelings of outrage concerning the aggressive qualities of the German people. The point, in any case, is that the general moderation in public opinion was an important factor in at least mitigating, although certainly not eliminating, anger against those who were openly calling for greater respect for the welfare of the ordinary citizens of Germany. The British press had played an important part in circulating German atrocity stories in the first war and was generally noted for its unabashed jingoism. At least some segments of the press, however, themselves displayed a newfound moderation in World War II. To be sure, the majority gave more or less unqualified support to the bombing of Germany. The Sunday Dispatch was typical with its comment that "it is right that the German population should 'smell death at close quarters.' Now they are getting the stench of it." Still another outsized headline screamed "NO PITY! NO MERCY!" and the writer went on to argue that "if we are to succeed we must not harbour cant and humbug. Voices are already heard, crying that mercy must temper ju