ve (codenamed Pointblank) against Germany. The directives that issued from these meetings were regarded by Bomber Command as final authorization for a general assault against German cities. In actuality, the wording of the decisions on Pointblank seemed to place primary emphasis on attacking relatively precise targets in Germany such as submarine construction yards the German aircraft industry, and oil and transportation facilities. At the same time, there was a built-in ambiguity in the instructions, caused basically bu differing American and British theories on the strategic air offensive, that allowed or encouraged Arthur Harris to pursue a strategy that he was resolved on in any case. The British area bombing offensive against Germany over the next 12 months involved a host of different operations but can be summarized h reference to three important episodes in that campaign. After the war, the United States Strategic Bombing Survey offered a rather clinical descriptio of how Bomber Command generally went about its business. In determining the aiming point for city attacks, Bomber Command prepared a zone map of the city based on aerial photographs. Administrative and residential areas between 70 and 100 per cent built-up were outlined in red. Similar area between 40 and 70 per cent built-up were outlined in green. Major railroad facilities were outlined in buff and industrial areas in black. In most German cities the black areas lay largely on the perimeter. Area attacks on a previousl unbombed city were aimed at the center of the red area, while subsequent attacke on the same city were usually directed against the center of the most heavily built-up areas which remained undestroyed.32 17 The first major application of this technique was in the Ruhr vallen where over the period March-July 1943, there were a total of 43 main raids. Virtually all the major urban centers of the Ruhr suffered badly as result, with the city of Barmen-Wuppertal, for example experienci