n an observation on the American Civil War, Bruce Catton caught the essential dilemma facing free societies at war. He observed that in the search for victory democracies may be driven to "perform acts that alter the very soil in which society's roots are nourished."48 Even if this is so, one is drawn back to a particular group of individuals who were at the heart of the area offensive and perhaps deserve the final word: the aircrew themselves. It is well to recall Winston Churchill's tribute to his predecessor Neville Chamberlain in the House of Commons upon the latter's death in November 1940. History with its flickering lamp stumbles along the trail of the past, trying to reconstruct its scenes, to revive its echoes, and kindle with pale gleams the passion of former days. What is the worth of all this? The only guide to a man is his conscience. The only shield to his memory is the rectitude and sincerity of his actions. It is very imprudent to walk through life without this shield, because 209 we are so often mocked by the failure of our hopes and the upsetting of our calculations; but with this shield, however the fates may play, we march always in the ranks of honour. 49 None of what has been written here denies that the aircrew of Bomber Command had a shield of sincere belief in the rectitude of what they were doing: helping to vanquish an unparalleled evil. The tragedy was that not only were they mocked by the failure of many of the calculations provided by others concerning the area offensive, but that they paid such a grievous price for the pursuit of an illusion. If moral blame needs to be assigned for the devastation of German cities, the aircrew should stand last in the ranks of the accused. They were ultimately only the messengers, not the authors of the message.  LOL NOTES Notes to Preface 1. Martin Middlebrook and Chris Everitt, The Bomber Command War Diaries (London: Viking, 1985), 682. 2. Gavin Lyall, The War in the Air (New York: William Morrow and