ith the British in World War II. The issues behind the fighting seemed about as practically and morally compelling as any that are likely to appear in war. That Hitler was embarked on a program of essentially unlimited aggression was plain to all but the most obscurantist opinion. That the regime that he directed was an affront to all decent human values seemed beyond question. Under these circumstances one did not have to be morally oblivious to feel that any and all methods that were available to bring him down should-and ethically could-be employed. The pressure to take such a position was all the greater when one considers that the prospects of a German victory in the war were seen by many not just as an abstract possibility but as a real and immediate one, at least in the beginning and middle years of the struggle. Despite all this, however, there was public dissent against the British government's handling of the war effort, and in particular moral protest at the policy of area bombing of Germany. The dissenters included several members of Parliament, at least one very prominent religious figure, two famous military historians, the playwright George Bernard Shaw, and the classicist Gilbert Murray as well as a number of others in the literary and artistic community. The existence of such opinion even in the midst of what could reasonably be regarded as a true just war seems remarkable in retro- spect. It is also a testament to the capacity of some in a democratic society to draw distinctions and make discriminations even as they supported the overall effort to rid Europe and the world of a genuine evil. Aside from the inherent courage of individuals willing to speak out against what they saw as a repugnant strategy, it does have to be recognized that the climate for dissent in Britain during World War II was in some ways  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 102 103 The Subjects of the Realm noticeably more tolerant than during the first great war. One significa