ncern about public morale has to be distinguished from satisfying the putative calls for revenge against Germany described earlier. Aside from Montgomery's defeat of Rommel in the African desert, and the gradual move up the Italian peninsula, there was not much to sustain the spirit of the country and confidence in its arms until the success of the D-Day invasion. Night after night, however, Bomber Command provided a demonstration that Britain was indeed carrying the war to the Nazis and supposedly with ever-increas ing effect. Presumably this played an important part in maintaining na- tional morale, and, even more, in convincing the public that the continuing war effort was worthwhile. Whether justified or not, Churchill and others were quite concerned at various times about the British people's suscepti- bility to war-weariness, which in turn could lead to pressures for a com- promise peace with the Germans. Finally, there seems little question but that Churchill, like many other Englishmen of his generation, was obsessed by his memories of World War I and in particular by the mindless slaughter of the trenches. It will be recalled that it was precisely in hopes of avoiding a repetition of this carnage that the whole concept of strategic bombing received a powerful impetus in the interwar years. The Prime Minister was under constant pressure from both the American and Russian Allies to commit British ground forces to an invasion of the Continent as soon as possible. Washington, for example, had initially suggested a landing in France as early as 1942, and Stalin never tired of pointing out to Churchill-at least prior to D-Day-that the Red Army was engaging the vast bulk of the German armed forces while there was relatively little contact between British units and the Wehrmacht, except in Africa and subsequently in Sicily and Italy. Against this background, a steadily expanding bomber offensive served several critical functions. It was a testimonial to the America