eld in Bavaria at a cost of 12,500 dead and wounded (about a quarter of the victorious army). The French suffered  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 22 some 40,000 casualties (almost half of their army). The issue giving rise to this bloodletting was the question of who would assume the Spanish throne following the death of Charles II. In "After Blenheim," Southey described a scene in which a Bavarian peasant, many years later, tried to explain to his grandchildren (notably the young Peterkin) what the battle had all meant: PART II 'My father lived at Blenheim then, Yon little stream hard by; They burnt his dwelling to the ground, And he was forced to fly; So with his wife and child he fled, Nor had he where to rest his head. REACTIONS 'With fire and sword the country round Was wasted far and wide And many a childing mother then And newborn baby died; But things like that, you know, must be At every famous victory. 'And everybody praised the Duke Who this great fight did win.' 'But what good came of it at last?' Quoth little Peterkin :- 'Why that I cannot tell,' said he, 'But 'twas a famous victory.' Trying to sort out what the area bombing offensive really amounted to whether it was indeed a "famous victory" or not, and what-to cite young Peterkin-it ultimately meant, must be a crucial part of any moral critique that may be offered of it. In beginning that critique, it is instructive in the first instance to consider how various individuals and groups in British society reacted to the unfolding of the area offensive and what combination of ideas, character, and values shaped their thinking on this method of warfare.  2 The Masters of the Realm "I learn a good deal by merely observing you, and letting you talk as long as you please, and taking note of what you do not say." -T.S. Eliot When technical developments first introduced the possibility of using airpower on a large scale to undertake direct attacks on an enemy's homeland in wartime, the international commu