ili- tary targets, e.g., military supplies, enemy soldiers. 3) The intention of the actor is good in that he aims only at the acceptable ef- fect and the evil side-effect (killing of innocents) is not one of his ends, nor is it a means to his ends. 4) The good effect (advancement of military goals) is sufficiently important to compensate for the evil side-effects.14 In order to render the principle of double effect meaningful, it should be added (as Walzer himself does) that it is not enough simply not to intend the killing of innocents. There must be a conscious and continual effort to limit the sacrifice of non-combatants as much as possible. It is surprising how often the principle of double effect finds its way into the discourse of politicians and military leaders, even if they don't phrase their arguments in such abstract philosophical terms. In its often rather vulgarized version, the principle of double effect is reduced to the idea that I can do pretty nearly anything I want in wartime as long as I am actually trying to achieve military victory and not simply engaging in vengeful slaughter. In this version, double effect takes on an almost Shermanesque character, and use of the doctrine in this way was (and is) very common among apologists for the area offensive. Consider, for example, this statement from Arthur Harris: Attacks on cities, like any other act of war, are intolerable unless they are strategically justified. But they are strategically justified in so far as they tend to shorten the war and so preserve the lives of Allied soldiers. To my mind we have absolutely no right to give them up unless it is certain that they will not have this effect. 15 Notice that in this analysis any military action that "tends" to have the effect of shortening the war is rendered legitimate for that very reason (the reference to preserving the lives of Allied soldiers raises a somewhat differ- ent issue that needs to be considered separately). Clearly, this removes a