overnment called for support in the military struggle against Germany. Symptomatic of the new mood, in Salter's view, was the decision of the Bermondsey Borough Council-once one of the most progressive in the country-to fire all conscientious objectors from its service, even elderly World War I veterans.53 It would be idle to pretend that Alfred Salter's efforts had any noticeable impact on British opinion. Like many protesters against area bombing, he was tolerated but hardly taken seriously by the majority. The MP for West Bermondsey spent his time in organizing groups such as the Peace Pledge Union, a pacifist organization lobbying for immediate peace with Germany. and the Peace Aims Group, which was centered in the House of Commons and sponsored talks throughout the country on the issues of the war. Yet his condemnation of the strategy of Bomber Command has a considerable power when examined in retrospect. Particularly notable was his final address to the House of Commons in 1941 (delivered before only a scattering of MPs). Arthur Harris had not even assumed command of British bombers at this point, although air strikes against German cities were becoming increasingly common. What gave his remarks a special poignancy was the fact that Salter was in extremely poor health at the time, suffering from thrombosis of the 117 brain. He was to die not long after delivering himself of these words, which stand as a fairly compelling statement of the case against British surrender to the immoralities of total war. Open retaliation and revenge are now being advocated in the highest quarters. No apologies are now offered for the indiscriminate bombing of women and children. ... In the early days of the war only strictly military targets were said to be the objectives of our Air Force. Now we have photographs showing whole streets of working-class houses being blown skyhigh by our bombs. . . . Every day the war continues it will become harder, not only materially but spiritua