he ground forces, would pay greater dividends.9 Tizard, in fact, emerges as being as tough-minded in his own way as was Cherwell. One of the chief students of the bomber offensive stresses that at this time "although some scientists were revolted or distressed by the moral implications of area bombing-as obviously were many reflective men and women privy to the issues-Tizard and company were not."10 This analysis seems borne out by a comment that the English scientist-novelist C. P. Snow made about the Cherwell-Tizard controversy. He admits that even though he personally and the people he knew best were frequently uneasy about strategic bombing, partly on military and partly on humane grounds, "when it came to the point it was not Lindemann's ruthlessness that worried us most, it was his calculations."11 In any case, Tizard's and Blackett's objections to Cherwell's arguments were brushed aside by the government. Not only were they dismissed but, as Snow further recalls, this "minority view was not only defeated, but squashed. The atmosphere was more hysterical than is usual in  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 68 The Servants of the Realm English official life; it had the faint but just perceptible smell of a witch hunt. Tizard was actually called a defeatist."12 In the aftermath of his humiliation he was retired to an honorific post at Oxford and had no further influence on the British war effort. Aside from the Tizard-Cherwell controversy, there was one other well- known imbroglio on bombing policy during the war that, at first glance. would seem to reflect a morally sensitive scientific community's objecting to the crudity of the area offensive. The central figure in this instance was Sir Solly Zuckerman. Zuckerman was trained as a doctor; before the war. however, he had gravitated into the study of primates and in particular the sexual and social life of apes and monkeys, from which two books resulted Because of his background in experimental work, he was cal