that Harris abandon his fantasies and adopt a course of action that would have been both pragmat- ically and ethically more appropriate. invasion, Allied bombing of German oil targets had previously received only limited emphasis-and even then was undertaken more by the Americans than the British. Despite the above assessments, throughout the fall of 1944 Bomber Command devoted the majority of its effort to area bombing of German cities. As one historian has summarized the situation, Harris "in his capacity as head of Bomber Command ... resisted the call to focus his strength against Germany's oil resources, preferring to put his faith, which all Allied intelli- gence including Ultra had shown to be misplaced, in the creation of fire- storms and rubble."23 It was not until the beginning of 1945 that British airmen turned to a major effort against petroleum. In the process, together with the American air force, they succeeded in reducing German oil produc- tion to a trickle. An important point is that Bomber Command's reversion to the area offensive after September 1944 eased the pressure on the German oil infrastructure (despite continued American attacks) and allowed them to increase production significantly, a fact again amply documented by the available intelligence. DOING GOOD AND DOING WELL In offering a practical-and, in consequence, a moral-critique of the area bombing offensive, we could perhaps content ourselves with suggesting that area bombing had much less military effect than was claimed and thus was morally indefensible in terms of standards of proportionality. Yet the moral argument gains in force if it can be shown that there were viable alternatives to what was done and that these alternatives would have been far preferable in terms of military efficiency, not to mention a more suitable standard of moral conduct. As one Bomber Command veteran suggests, "Whether the methods by which victory in war is sought are morally permissible or not . . . is [de