45, there is one constant in the body of Churchill's speeches and writings on the matter, and that is the general absence of any hint of concern with the moral implications of area bombing. Even one of his close aides and unalloyed admirers admits that "as time went on, and the accumulated horrors of the war hardened all our hearts, he grew indifferent to the sufferings of the German cities."46 Indeed Churchill is on record as saying that "it is absurd to consider morality on this topic. . .. In the last war the bombing of open cities was regarded as forbidden. Now everybody does it as a matter of course. It is simply a question of fashion changing as she does between long and short skirts for women."47 One exception to this insouciant attitude might be the famous minute after the attack on Dresden, with its reference to "terror" as the object of British bombing policy. But even here Churchill, as already noted, agreed to delete such references in his revision of the original memorandum. Perhaps his attitude can best be summarized by a comment he made to a former staff officer of Bomber Command after the war. "We should never allow our- selves," he said, "to apologize for what we did to Germany."48 The famous British historian A. J. P. Taylor offers a somewhat different verdict on this matter of Churchill's moral sensibilities, which stands in contrast to Taylor's typical iconoclasm concerning the behavior of famous politicians. Taylor observes that bombing strategy involved a moral judgment for which Churchill later was sometimes condemned. ... Churchill himself was often uneasy, particularly as he did not share Bomber Command's wholehearted conviction of success. Rulers in other countries . .. were ready to use methods equally destructive and equally barbarous. Churchill at least had the redeeming quality of disliking what he was compelled to do. Though he, too, waged war destructively, he remained a humane man. 49 It is hard to know what this really means, for ex