e dismissed any notion that a limited nuclear war might be winnable or even conceivable. He paid tribute to E. P. Thompson, at the time the leader of the movement for unilateral nuclear disarmament in Britain, saying that "there can be no answer" to Thompson's fundamental moral argument. "I am fully sensitive to the moral objections of weapons of mass destruction."16 This seems a pretty straightforward indictment of the notion of targeting civilians as an ingredient of national strategy. A closer examination however, reveals a somewhat different picture about Zuckerman's stance on airpower. For one thing, his subsequent objection to the idea of a rational nuclear war-fighting strategy was based as much on technical consider tions as on fine points of moral philosophy. He stressed the difference. not just in degree but in kind, between the effect of nuclear weapons and that of conventional bombing: the key distinction was that, for all practical purposes, there was no limit to the destructive power of nuclear bombe More to the point, he suggested that all the destruction that Britain suffered in World War II from conventional bombing would pale before that caused by the explosion of a single megaton nuclear device over a single British city.17 This is all sensible enough, but it is apparent that the argument reste not on the inherent rights of civilians in wartime but on the level of destruction that both sides would suffer in even a minimal nuclear ex- change, which rendered nugatory any military rationale for such a conflict It is also important to recognize that Zuckerman's theories about precision versus area bombing in World War II evidently had very little to do with uneasiness about excessive non-combatant suffering. He comments rather im- patiently that "no more than a handful of prominent British citizens pontificated [sic] about the immorality of reprisal attacks on German cities." Ironically, in fact, one of the objections to Zuckerman's Transportation Pla