e it is the best possible. And so we have got to do it and be penitent while we do it."25 Adopting this sort of stance, of course, left Temple open to criticism and from quite opposing points of view. On the one hand there were those who felt he was being unduly precious and perhaps even self-righteous in ago- nizing over the dilemmas of violence in service to a just cause. His colleague Dr. Cyril Garbett, the Archbishop of York, for example, dismissed Temple's unwillingness to pray for victory unless the qualifier "if it be Thy will" was appended. As Garbett wrote in his diary, "I disagree entirely. Unless we thought it was God's will that we should war against the Nazis, we ought to have opposed the war: if it is His will, then we must pray for victory." Garbett himself was asked in 1943 to join in the protest against area bombing, but not surprisingly he rejected such appeals. "Often in life," he said, "there is no clear choice between absolute right and wrong; frequently the choice has to be made of the lesser of two evils, and it is a lesser evil to bomb a war-loving Germany than to sacrifice the lives of our fellow-countrymen who long for peace, and to delay delivering millions now held in slavery."26 Even though Garbett distanced himself from the easy certainties of the Cromwellians, there is no question but that he was impatient with those who seemed prone to agonizing over the morality of the means adopted in a righteous cause. Temple's attempt to find a middle course in the debate over British bombing policy was also subject to criticism from quite a different quarter. Those opposed  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 100 101 The Subjects of the Realm to the area offensive found his rather circuitous reasoning something of an abdication of moral leadership in a crisis. Their chagrin was reinforced when the Church, after the war, seemed to accept belatedly that city bombing was after all quite unacceptable. In a report by a Church commission appointed by t