ctually was undertaken during the course of the struggle? RETREAT FROM RESPONSIBILITY There is a famous passage in one of the Sherlock Holmes adventures in which the great detective comments to Watson that the key to solving his case lay in the behavior of a certain dog at the scene of the crime. Watson, in his typical confusion, questioned the logic of this, saying that the dog hadn't even barked during the commission of the murder. "That is precisely the point," Holmes suavely replied. What strikes one initially about the British government's public stance on Bomber Command's activities over Germany is that for the most part, "the dog didn't bark." In other words, given all the resources assigned to Bomber Command, and the sometimes elaborate projections as to how area bombing could prove critical to the war effort, one might have expected that the Gover ment would openly and unashamedly describe the progressive devastation German cities. This would have involved not just a recitation of the punishmer being visited on the German population but a detailed presentation as well of the whole theory behind area bombing, including the notion of breaking German morale and the progressive dislocation of the enemy's social and economic infrastructure. In case such discussion might prove too arcane for some of the citizenry, there was Churchill's personal assessment that the British people insisted that "the German people taste and gulp each month a sharper dose of the miseries they have showered upon mankind."12 A candid description of how such medicine was being administered to the German nation presumably would have proved a tonic to a great many in Britain. In the event, very little of the above was attempted. On the contrary. there was a steady and concerted effort throughout the war to deny or at least not to admit to the reality of area bombing. One of the most astute and fair-minded historians of the area offensive summarizes governmental policy this way: In some wa