y (in view of later events), Winston Churchill was one of those who voiced support for the abolition of aircraft designed for strategic bombing. Hitler's coming to power in Germany, however, undermined whatever chance there was at Geneva for a fundamental agreement on airpower restrictions. He withdrew Germany from the conference in October 1933, although the Nazi government did propose in March of 1936 that a general prohibition be established against "the dropping of bombs on open towns and other inhabited places."7 What we are left here with, then, seems clear enough. Prior to World War II there was no convention that was legally binding on Great Britain forbidding be from indiscriminate air attacks on German cities. At the same time, the whole direction and substance of international discussion on the parameters of strategic bombing suggested that what Michael Walzer calls the "war convention" did proscribe such attacks. As defined by Walzer, the war convention composes "the set of articulated norms, customs, professional codes, legal precepts, religious and philosophical principles, and reciprocal arrangements that shape our jude. ments of military conduct."8 Described in this way, the concept of the war convention combines both formal (or positive) stipulations as to how war legal must be fought and customary (or normative) standards as to how war should be fought, and as such it provides a fundamental framework for all our subsequent analysis. What has to be emphasized for purposes of the present discussion is that the British government prior to World War II seemed clearly to accept that area bombing as such was prohibited by the war convention. More specific ally, the British announced that they would adhere to the Hague Draft Rules even though they were not formally binding, as long as others did so. Thue Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain issued the following guidelines to Bomber Command in June 1938: 1. It is against international law to bomb civilians a