iddell Hart (with whom she otherwise had almost nothing in common). There was little in her earlier upbringing that would have suggested she would one day become a virtual outcast from mainstream British society for the virulence of her objectives to area bombing. Born in 1893, she was raised in a prosperous family headed by a successful industrialist of impeccable middle-class values. She spent a good deal of her youth immersed in a typical Edwardian lifestyle, with an elaborate house long lawns, tennis courts, and many servants. Upon finishing school at the age of 18, she followed for a time the typical course of an eligible young woman from a good family, engaging in a round of tea parties and tennis engagement while waiting for Mr. Right to come along. A suitable marriage was seen as the highest goal to which she might (or should) aspire.59 Eventually Vera Brittain did decide to continue her education, and she took a second-class degree in history from Oxford. In subsequent years she established a growing reputation as a poet and novelist, public speaker, and prolific journalist. In 1933 she published a memoir entitled Testament of Youth, which became an international sensation, selling 120,000 copies over the next several years and marking her as one of Britain's best-known writer of the period. She was married to George Catlin, a British professor at Cornell University in the United States, and a prominent Labour Party figure. She was, in sum, an acknowledged figure in British public life with various ties to prominent personalities in politics and the arts. Yet despite her seemingly unbroken string of successes and conventional fulfillment, there had also been a darker strain to Vera Brittain's life that 121 perhaps was a factor in her later career as a dissident. The great love of her youth, whom she was engaged to marry, was killed in action on the Western Front during World War I. Her brother Edward was also a fatality of the war. Her closest female friend