afe, even if the underlying prejudice against the supposed ivory-tower abstractions of the scientists continued to linger. In an unusual tribute to those outside his immediate circle of staff, Arthur Harris conceded that Bomber Command's operational research section became a "body of brilliant young civilian scientists and technicians ... who did work of inestimable value in subjecting all aspects of our operations to an impartial scrutiny."28 This assessment doesn't help much, of course, in answering the question of what the boffins' moral role should have been in the development of Bomber Command's area offensive against Germany. The British historian A. J. P. Taylor was unsparing in his criticism of area bombing and, perhaps not incidentally, also had acerbic views on the role of modern science in questions of war and peace. He dismissed the scientists' mentality that accepts that "any argument will do" so long as they "can go on with their terribly sweet problems" (a phrase attributed to J. Robert Oppenheimer). Taylor argued that "the scientists think they are God. They want to remake the universe; and we pay the price for their mad ambition. ... Shall we knock the power out of their hands before it is too late?"29 It is unclear how in the contemporary age one would go about depriving the scientific community of their powers. There is also a quibble that can be made about scientists' being consumed with a "mad ambition." Perhaps a fairer judgment on the boffins, curiously enough, might take at least something from that which we rendered on Sir Arthur Harris himself. British scientists, after all, were in the final analysis only servants of the state. One might have hoped that they would have spoken out more forcefully against the moral implications of the area offensive, particularly since they were in some position to judge the problematical military effects of such a massive departure from the war convention. In this sense, they could have harnessed their tech