rain on this enterprise, but even then there was a reluctance-at least among some of the participants-to open the Pandora's box of totally unlimited warfare. As late as June 1917, for example, when Lord Curzon put before the British War Cabinet a proposal for bombing raids on German cities, there was opposition on the grounds that this meant imitating the German policy of "frightfulness."34 World War II, however, according to this argument, represented the final abandonment of the concept of limits in modern war, and it was the intro- duction of massive strategic bombing that was primarily responsible. One of the earliest critiques of the area offensive to appear in Great Britain after the war made much of this notion. The author referred ironically to the green light given to Bomber Command in May 1940 to attack a full range of targets in Germany as "the splendid decision." He then went on to state that "the fundamental principle of civilized warfare was repudiated on May 11th, 1940 [sic]. .. and with the keystone removed the whole structure of civilized warfare as it had been gradually built up in Europe the preceding two centuries collapsed in ruins."35 This is pretty strong stuff. Was Dresden, as the above author (and a number of others) suggests, simply a reprise of the destruction of Magde burg? If it be so regarded, the logical conclusion would be that mankind had advanced not at all in 300 years, that its capacity for cruelty and arbitrary destruction was essentially the same as before. Such a conclusion seems such a denial of any reasonable hope for the progress of civilization that it tempting to try to set it aside. Yet the comparison of Dresden and Magdeburg has a melancholy logic to it. Consider this comment in the official history of the Royal Air Force: "The destruction in Germany was by then [the time of the attack on Dresden] on a scale which might have appalled Attila or Genghis Khan."36 Perhaps the only difference between the two was that Magdebur