irpower in World War ii civilian casualties, it is instructive indeed to observe how-in a different context-the British government displayed considerable concern about the vulnerability of civilians to air attack. A prime example can be seen in the period prior to the invasion of Europe and involved a debate over strategy to which we have already referred. against Allied policy, he observed that "I do not personally regard the whole of the remaining cities of Germany as worth the bones of one British Cignadior od Among many extraordinary statements offered during the war by the head off Bomber Command, this must surely rank among the most extraordinary. Was Harris really arguing that the killing of indeterminate thousands of additional German civilians was morally counterbalanced by the saving of one British soldier's life? What is really at stake here is the whole notion of obligations or what Kaat called "perfect" and "imperfect" duties.29 Simply stated, the former involve obligations that are absolute and commanding on the individual or the group; the latter are obligations that, while compelling, are nevertheless subject to modification or even temporary non-performance in certain cir. cumstances. In terms of our own focus, the relationship between ethics and war, I would suggest that there are three categories of duties that present themselves to governments. The first and truly perfect obligation is to one's own soldiers and to the civilian population as a whole. Governments have no real purpose other than securing the life and welfare of their subjects, and such a duty can never be foresworn, at least by governments who genuinely aspire to serve their people's interests. The other two types of duties impinging on governments in wartime may be described as imperfect but they exist nonetheless, the assumption beine that all individual human beings have certain rights that continue to obtain even in the midst of war. Above all this means the right to life unless