ation dwarfing any that had ever been attempted and was by no means assured of success. The obvious point is that if one takes this more measured view concerning the prospects of German victory after February 1942, the legitimacy of the area bombing offensive can perhaps be defended more easily. It can, that is, if we make certain corollary judgments about military necessity. The issue is plain enough: was the bombing of German cities the only realistic military option available to Britain that held out the prospect of doing serious damage to the German war effort? What alternatives were at hand for the British Government in using airpower (or other military resources, for that matter) in the war against Germany? In short, was the area offensive a legitimate military necessity in any real sense of the term? It is evident that an answer to these questions must be governed in part by one's position concerning the existence of a supreme emergency. If the threat to Britain was fundamental at the beginning of 1942, then presumably greater latitude may be given for the adoption of any and all measures for the protection of the state, even if they were violative of the war convention. If the peril was less, then a different standard of judgment must apply. There seems to be a rather convincing array of evidence that to the extent Britain was to undertake a strategic bombing offensive against Germany in the period after February 1942, there was for the foreseeable future little alternative but to concentrate on general city attacks. We have already detailed the factors that effectively forced the RAF out of daytime bombing over Germany by the beginning of that year. Given the technical constraints operating on Bomber  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 150 151 Standards and Principles Command in nighttime operations, a large urban area seemed to suggest itself as the only feasible aiming point for the aircrew. The British Bombing Survey Unit summarized the argument after t