s were defended, this defense increasingly became a pro forma exercise (there was not a single Luftwaffe sortie against the Allied planes that bombed Dresden in February 1945). Given the helplessness of German cities by this point, the only activity that the Hague Convention allowed (on the naval analogy) was precise attacks against German military objectives in the effected areas. In actuality. Bomber Command resumed an unadulterated area offensive in September 1944 and continued it until the following April. Initial Propositions If a legal defense of the area offensive, particularly in its last year, seems hard to sustain, we turn now to a more general consideration of first principles in morality and warfare in order to establish a broader framework for judgment. It is standard in discussions of ethics and violence to employ some variant of "just war" doctrine as originally developed by Saint Augustine of Hippo, later refined by Saint Thomas Aquinas, and subject to constant elucidation (or re-elucidation) ever since. Indeed just war theory seems almost inevitably to lie at the heart of analyses about legitimate types of conflict and thus of the war convention itself. The theory makes a clear distinction between jus ad bellum and jus in bello, that is, between the legitimacy of the state's resorting to war in the first place and the methods by which the war is conducted. The framework of jus ad bellum emphasizes that there must be right intent, generally defined as self-defense or the protection of weak and innocent third parties. Even in these cases, the war must be started by legitimate authority and be resorted to only as a last resort. Wars begun basically for purposes of revenge or reprisal are proscribed.12 139 It would seem that there can be few, if any, quibbles with Great Britain's war against Germany in terms of jus ad bellum. This was indeed a classic example of a war of self-defense, not only of Britain itself but of other weak and innocent third parti