ummarized the case against a Carthaginian peace being imposed on the Germans. To line up the Nazi assassins in the same row with the people of Germany whom they have outraged is to make for more barbarism, possibly to postpone peace, and to make certain an incredible worsening of the conditions of all Europe when at last peace comes. . .. The remedy is to tell those inside Germany who are anti-Fascist that we want their help, that we will help them in getting rid of the common enemy, and that we intend that a Germany delivered from Hitlerism shall have fair play and a proper place in the family of Europe.46 Bishop Bell's preeminent cause during the war gradually came to be the issue of British bombing policy, and in particular what he suspected (or knew, drawing on neutral sources he questioned during his trip to Sweden) was the strategy of indiscriminate attacks on German cities and civilians. As far as Bell was concerned, the bombing of civilians was a "degradation of the spirit for all who take part in it." He expressed particular repugnance at the doctrine of destroying enemy morale and called on his fellow clergy to set themselves firmly against the "propaganda of lies and hatred" that in his opinion contributed to the area offensive. His firm belief was that the church's function was "at all costs to remain the Church. . . . It is not the nation. It is not the state's spiritual auxiliary with exactly the same ends as the state."47 As the war progressed, Bell waged an increasingly lonely campaign to convince the government-and, more broadly, the British people-that area  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 112 The Subjects of the Realm bombing was an insult to their better instincts and in fact to their basic values. In making this argument, he became a growing embarrassment to his fellow churchmen and to the church hierarchy itself. The one notable (and rather surprising) exception was the former Archbishop of Canterbury, Cosmo Lang, who echoed Bell's concerns