the equation-that is, did a supreme emergency confront Great Britain as of February 1942, and was the area offensive a military necessity in that Britain had no other options open to her, or at least any that promised to do significant damage to the Nazi ability to make war? 147 On the first point, there is no question but that Britain was faced with at least one element of supreme emergency in February 1942. A Nazi defeat of Great Britain, and more especially a Nazi occupation of the British islands, would have ushered in a long night of barbarism that would have threatened all the basic norms of the nation as they had been developed over the past several hundred years. We have plenty of evidence that Hitler planned to remake British society and institutions along lines congenial to the New Order in Europe. A first step in this process would have been the systematic slaughter of all the leadership elements in Great Britain. We have already referred to the so-called Gestapo List of those scheduled for execution (both Winston Churchill and Vera Brittain claiming pride of place on this roster), which had on it the names of almost 2,000 individuals. Beyond this, there were plans for the mass deportation of British workers to Germany to work in factories and on farms, a process already established in other parts of occupied Europe at the time. Indeed, an item from the proposed plan of Military Government for England stipulated that the entire "able-bodied male population between the ages of seventeen and forty-five will . . . be interned and dispatched to the Continent with the minimum of delay." There was to be a draconian requisition of foodstuffs and raw materials beyond that required for the bare subsistence of the population. Finally, as need hardly be mentioned, British Jews would have been subjected to the same fate as their co-religionists on the Continent.21 But was German victory over Great Britain ever imminent, or more to the point, was it imminent in Februa