ing that "in the House of Commons h [Archibald Sinclair] should have been far more forthright than he was. personally thought this was asking for trouble; there was nothing to ashamed of."21 In fact, Harris took the trouble to write the Air Ministry October 25, 1943, urging them to stop their public denials that the bomb campaign was focused on "the obliteration of German cities and the inhabitants as such." Instead, Harris urged, "the aim of the Combine Bomber Offensive . . . should be unambiguously stated [as] the destruction 33 of German cities, the killing of German workers and the disruption of civilized life throughout Germany.' Archibald Sinclair was evidently rather alarmed by this plea for candor, and he emphasized to his aides that in drafting a reply to Harris there was a need not to "provoke the leaders of religious and humanitarian opinion to protest." What followed was a rather bizarre exchange of memoranda in which the Air Ministry denied to Harris that any of the confidential directives to Bomber Command actually targeted German cities and civil- ians as such. It was admitted that in pursuit of military objectives some cities might become prime targets but, the Air Ministry claimed, this was very different from a general policy of attacking all urban areas. "This distinction is in fact one of great importance in the presentation to the public of the aim and achievements of the bomber offensive." For Harris, this was a distinction without a difference, and at least in this instance one is compelled to admire his logic. He argued that since his primary directive was to destroy the German social and economic infrastructure and under- mine German morale, he perforce had to target cities. What stands out in this exchange is that the Air Ministry, in its continuing concern about how to present the "facts" about the bomber offensive, rather astonishingly assumed that Harris himself could be persuaded to accept the fiction that was being presented to the gen