ill at least had the redeeming quality of disliking what he was compelled to do. Though he, too, waged war destructively, he remained a humane man. 49 It is hard to know what this really means, for example, that Churchill remained a "humane man" and disliked "what he was compelled to do." The reality is that the Prime Minister not only condoned the area offensive but was an active spur to it. Even assuming that he may have occasionally had some passing qualms during the war years about the suffering of German civilians, this hardly stands as a solid defense against the burden of his actions. If Churchill's approach to the question of area bombing can be seen as basically utilitarian, that is, dependent almost entirely on whether such a  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 46 The Masters of the Realm strategy would be efficient in defeating the enemy, his military judgment concerning the air offensive still has certain ethical implications. If one can establish that he was unconvinced of the efficiency of area bombing, yet allowed it to go forward nonetheless, his moral responsibility for the suffer- ing inflicted by the area offensive seems rather more pronounced than if he sincerely believed in the military efficacy of such a strategy. It may be that he personally was impatient with the ethical arguments against area bomb ing, but he could hardly have been unaware of their existence. Under these circumstances to allow a policy to proceed unimpeded even when he was dubious of its practical returns would constitute a rather arrogant indifferen to the concerns expressed by many. A fair conclusion about Churchill's attitude toward the military rational of the strategic air offensive is in any case difficult to arrive at, as we have already observed. Consider the following analysis, which he offered Minister of Munitions as far back as 1917: as It is improbable that any terrorization of the civil population which could be achieved by air attack would compel the Governme