o Alfred Salter in one other respect, and that was her belief that area bombing was a particularly repugnant manifestation of the application of violence. In other words, all war may have been evil, but the bombing of civilians stood in an (evil) class by itself. Moreover, Brittain at times showed a capacity for mixing moral and pragmatic arguments about military strategy. Thus she referred to the raid against the Peenemunde rocket installations-a rare precision attack by Bomber Command-as one that made sense from a military standpoint. She also argued that research done after the war showed the area offensive to be "not merely wicked but stupid," that is, it was militarily ineffective. She describes the war as having been won by the land armies and by "the relatively intelligent precision bombing of aircraft factories and railway junctions."61 Vera Brittain was hardly an expert on military questions, but these statements demonstrate that she was able to accept at least some differentiation in the rationality-and thus acceptability-of different mili- tary measures. There is also little doubt that she regarded Hitler and the Nazi regime as a serious threat to the values she held so dear. In a trip to Germany in 1936. she heard Hitler speak and dismissed him as being in effect a religious maniac. In one of the few cafes in Frankfurt where Jews were allowed to assemble, she perceived with abhorrence the "collective sense of humiliation among the patrons." At the same time, she felt that the outbreak of war could not simply be attributed to the inherent aggressiveness of the Germans. The inequities of the Versailles settlement as well as the commitment to power- politics by all the European leaders played an important part as well. Brittain was especially critical of Vansittartism and described as hysterical the notion that the Germans were the butcher-birds of history. She felt that such racial stereotyping made it far easier for the British government to adopt a polic