say." -T.S. Eliot When technical developments first introduced the possibility of using airpower on a large scale to undertake direct attacks on an enemy's homeland in wartime, the international community was perforce confronted with a compelling question: would such attacks be in accordance with the tradi- tional laws of warfare and, even more, would they be consonant with accepted standards of moral and humanitarian restraint by civilized nations concerning the tools of violence? As early as 1899, the Hague Peace Conference had unanimously adopted a declaration to prohibit "for a period of five years . . . the discharge of projectiles or explosives from balloons or by other new methods of a similar nature."1 Article 25 of the 1907 Hague Convention "forbade any attack on undefended towns, villages, residential places or buildings by any means whatsoever." This stipulation reflected a fairly elementary moral consider- ation in that it was hardly necessary to attack an undefended town except for reasons of pure revenge or reprisal. However, the notion of "undefended" created a host of ambiguities. Did this literally mean that there must be no anti-aircraft gun in the vicinity, no air or army base in the region, not even some semblance of civil defence? Under the circumstances, Article 25 seemed to hold out few protections for any but the smallest village or hamlet. The principle of the undefended town also produced another difficulty, although of quite an opposite character. In theory, the enemy could protect  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 26 The Masters of the Realm his most vital industrial targets simply by declaring that they lay in "open" (i.e., undefended) cities. Moreover, Article 25 seemed to be mostly relevant to situations in which a city was under siege by land armies and subject to capture (with or without the use of ground artillery). What about cities that were far to the rear of the front lines and might contain important military defenses but we