e committed to the former. Had Bomber Command somehow accepted precision bombing as basic doctrine, they would in effect have been accepting the American way of war. Given the USSAF's background and training in precision bombing, Bomber Command would have been submitting itself to the tutelage of the Americans in shaping a new targeting policy. Since Bomber Command had been basically trained for area bombing, Arthur Harris-in the interests of his own service's independence-had a vested interest in proving that the area offensive was the superior air strategy. Doing so was a way of marking out a quite distinct role for Bomber Command in the war effort. The British represen- tatives at the Casablanca Conference seemed fairly sensitive to this fact, which led to the final ambiguity in the instructions for Operation Pointblank, with its apparent emphasis on attacking precision targets but also leaving room open for general area attacks as well. There is a fairly unpleasant implication to this analysis that has to be squarely faced. The argument suggests that Harris would have pursued-and perhaps did pursue-area bombing regardless of the accumulating evidence about its lack of effectiveness and certainly without any moral compunction about its effect on German civilians simply because this was the most effective way of maintaining his Command's independence of the Ameri- cans. Even more, the British government allowed him to pursue this course because it too was desirous of sustaining at least some vestige of independent action in the war effort for reasons having to do basically with British prestige and self-image. This is indeed a somewhat unattractive argument to make. On the basis of the available evidence, it also seems to be an accurate one. It goes a long way toward explaining, for instance, why Arthur Harris was not replaced as head of Bomber Command in 1944. We have earlier summarized the factors that might have been cited to justify such a dismissal, including