rtime, three primary factors seem to contribute. There are the particular values and institutions of the warring state itself, which may or may not dictate moderation in certain measures of violence. There is the general code of the international community, expressed not only in conventions but in custom, dictating legitimate conduct in wartime (and here referred to as the war convention). Finally, there is a body of essentially prudential considerations that stresses that the manner of fighting a war should not undermine the prospects for a more just or more favorable peace for the victorious parties or perhaps even for the international community as a whole.  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 136 Standards and Principles The last factor in restraining uncontrolled violence may perhaps be persuasive at times even to those generally most skeptical of the notion of limits in war. The existence and, even more, the restraining effect of the war convention is generally met with a good deal more derision by these individuals, as noted above. The first consideration, that a nation's own peculiar character may dictate limitations in the use of force, presents a more ambiguous problem. Certainly all of the major figures instrumental in Bomber Command's air campaign against Germany were unalloyed patriots and convinced of the special virtues of the British people. which the struggle against the enemy was designed to preserve. The challenge in this case was to square Britain's seeming violation of previous standards of warfare (at least as practiced by their country) with their conviction that Britain was something special. The standard, if uneasy, solution was to assert that necessity forced the nation temporarily to set aside its traditional standards of discrimination. This was not an explanation satisfactory to the moral critics the area offensive and, one suspects, not a totally comfortable notion with manu of its proponents as well. The notion of national character as