analysis, which he offered Minister of Munitions as far back as 1917: as It is improbable that any terrorization of the civil population which could be achieved by air attack would compel the Government of a great nation to surrender. ... ,In our own case, we have seen the combative spirit of the people roused, and not quelled, by the German air raids. Nothing that we have learned of the capacity of the Germany population to endure suffering justifies us in assuming that they could be cowed into submission by such methods, or indeed, that they would not b rendered more desperately resolved by them. Therefore our air offensive should consistently be directed at striking at the bases and communications upon whose structure the fighting power of his armies and his fleets of the sea and of the air depends. Any injury which comes to the civil population from this process of attack must be regarded as incidental and inevitable.50 This deprecation of the "morale" thesis behind the strategic air offensive together with the emphasis on what later would be called precision bombino rather surprisingly anticipated the very criticisms that would be levied against Bomber Command by a good many during World War II. To be sure, the technical capabilities that Britain used in 1917 for air attacks against German paled before those available in the later struggle, and one might simply conclude that Churchill's views changed in response to these developments. Certainl there is evidence to support such a conclusion. Thus in the grim days following the fall of France, when Britain stood alone against the might of the German war machine, Churchill seemed to feel that there was only one possibility of reversing the fortunes of war. He wrote to Beaverbrook at the Ministry of War Production on July 8, 1940 (in a minute to which we have already referred), that 47 when I look around to see how we can win the war I see that there is only one sure path. We have no Continental Army which can defe