zed conduct. The V-1 was a cruise missile powered by a jet engine and carried about a ton of high explosive. It could fly as fast as 450 MPH and had a range of some 200 miles. When its engine exhausted its fuel, the rocket simply went down  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 194 UOD Final Reflections wherever it happened to be, killing and destroying without discrimination. The first V-1 missiles were launched at England two weeks after the Normandy invasion; eventually, 7,400 were sent from France and another 800 from Holland. Many were destroyed in flight, but the ones that did arrive killed or injured about 25,000 British civilians. The V-2 was a ballistic missile that soared 60 miles above the earth as its fuel was consumed in a 60-second burst. It then plummeted toward the ground at speeds as high as 3,500 MPH. The V-2 was a particularly fearsome weapon not only because of its indiscriminate character but also because there was no effective defense against it once it was launched. Some 1,500 V-2s were directed at Britain, killing or injuring a further 10,000 citizens. 17 The rage that was felt within Britain at this new departure in warfare, extending from the Prime Minister to the average citizen, certainly tended to blunt whatever remorse may have started to develop by the summer of 1944 concerning the suffering of German civilians. As Churchill said to the House of Commons on July 6, "The flying bomb is a weapon literally and essentially indiscriminate in its nature, purpose and effect. [Its] introduction obviously raises some grave questions."18 One way in which Churchill proposed to answer these "questions" was to consider large-scale gas attacks on German cities as a retaliation for the rockets raining down on Britain. He asked his advisers to provide him with a "cold-blooded" assessment as to "how it would pay us to use poison gas. ... We could drench the cities of the Ruhr and many other cities in Germany in such a way that most of the population would