cy, not to mention a more suitable standard of moral conduct. As one Bomber Command veteran suggests, "Whether the methods by which victory in war is sought are morally permissible or not . . . is [determined] by the range of available alternatives, for the amount of destruction must be the minimum compatible with the achievement of the aim."26 To summarize, then: there was considerable evidence in the later stages of the war, from a variety of intelligence sources, that the area offensive wo- having a relatively inconclusive effect on German morale and even less of an effect on German arms production. At the same time, there was lots of evidence that a concentrated assault on German oil, together with other precision attacks against such targets as aircraft factories and the Germe transportation system, would prove decisive. All this, says one leading. student of British intelligence, was passed on to relevant authority. Yet area offensive continued as before, since "the truth of Ultra did not suit champions of heavy bombing."24 By way of introduction a point made in the last chapter deserves elabo- ration. Within the government, the stress on airpower generally as the key to victory never enjoyed anything like a full consensus; indeed from the earliest days, there were prominent voices suggesting other possibilities. The fact that alternatives to concentrating on the strategic air offensive were always available (at least in theory) was attested to by the Lord Privy Seal, Sir Stafford Cripps, in a speech to the House of Commons shortly after Cripps had joined the War Cabinet in February 1942. Cripps seemed to take account of the vastly changed strategic situation occasioned by the entry, first of the Soviet Union and later of the United States, into the war: In returning to the theme of proportionality, and to the question of wh- did British officials know and when did they know it, the answer r see relatively clear: they had reason to know a lot (about the ineffe