"a gambler doubling up on each losing throw" (this with specific reference to the Battle of Berlin). Following the successful D-Day invasion, Bufton threw his weight behind those attempting to convince Harris that attacks on German synthetic oil installations offered the most promising short-cut to victory.35 Aside from Bufton, perhaps the other most prominent voice within the Air Ministry calling into question the area offensive was that of Sir Norman Bottomley, deputy chief of the Air Staff. Actually, Bottomley's attitude toward Harris's strategy was not quite as clear-cut as that of Bufton. When Bottomley was a staff officer at Bomber Command in 1940, for example, he opined that the aim of the bombers must be "primarily to destroy the enemy's will to win the war, leaving the destruction of his means to win the war an incidental or indirect task." His seeming commitment to morale as the main objective of the bombing offensive, which of course implied area bombing evidently remained with Bottomley for a time until his reading of the results of the area offensive converted him into an open skeptic. 1945 that "I note no inclination on your part, or anywhere else in the Air Ministry for that matter, to discuss with me, or even to consult me beforehand upon such matters as the strategic policy applicable to my force, or to take me into confidence or consultation thereafter." That earlier attempts to do so had been basically exercises in frustration was a point that Harris (perhaps unwittingly) omitted. He described Bufton as "an ex-Station Commander of my Command who has always been persona non grata to me and my staff." Harris let the cat out of the bag in a follow-up communication to Portal when he said that his problem with Bufton was that he appeared to ignore a "major and essential part of his job, namely, to press forward the interests, urgent requirements and doctrines of Bomber Command . .. while spending much of his time trying to run my command." Harris seeme