the area bombing offen- sive in important ways as simply a just punishment for past and present German misconduct. It has to be recognized that the Cromwellian impulse wasn't just confined to bloody-minded members of the Tory elite in Britain during the war. Support for this notion sometimes came from rather surprising sources. For instance, the President of the Trades Union Congress told the annual confer- ence in late 1942 that "until the German people, not alone their gangster rulers, have meted out to them what they have meted out to millions of their fellow creatures . . . the German people will again, if not prevented, make another attempt to enslave Europe." Even Clement Atlee, the eminently civilized leader of the Labour Party, opined that "a great moral and mental revolution" would be needed before the Germans could be trusted again. "It was idle," he said, "to think that the process of converting the Germans from the barbarities into which they had sunk to civilization was not going to take a long time."13 In gaining a further insight into the mindset of the Cromwellians, we might take a look at a small book published in 1944 entitled Bombing Vindicated. It was offered by Mr. J. M. Spaight (CB, CBE), former Principal Assistant Secretary at the Air Ministry, and a well-known writer on matters of airpower. This book may well be regarded as the principal (indeed the only) full-length defense of the area offensive to be offered during the war itself by a private author. The arguments presented in Bombing Vindicated are a curious melange, consisting in part of a vigorous trumpeting of the military effectiveness of the area offensive alongside rather defensive denials that there was any real moral issue at stake in the tactics of Bomber Command. The title of his first chapter reflects Spaight's fundamental thesis: "The Bomber Saves Civilization." Spaight goes out of his way to assure his readers that he is not an unfeeling man and that he is as sensible as the n