hics and Airpower in World War II 52 The Masters of the Realm specific military targets such as the German arms industry, petroleum facilities, and the transportation network. The critical question becomes why Churchill did not implement his earlier judgment and simply order Arthur Harris to alter his strategy along the indicated lines. In arriving at an answer to this question, it is necessary to consider Harris's relationship with Churchill as well as with other of his superiors. Such an examination says a good deal in its own right about the fundamental issue of moral responsibility for the British bombing of German cities. The Choices and the Choosers There are two matters that require special attention here: (1) To what degree was Harris simply carrying out directives on the area offensive from higher authority? (2) If he (at least occasionally) seemed to defy or ignore such directives, to what extent did his nominal superiors attempt to rein him in or even hold out the threat of dismissal? In arriving at a judgment on these questions, it has already been suggested that it is necessary to focus not only on the relationship between Harris and Churchill, but also on the interaction between Harris and several other major players in the drama of the strategic air offensive, notably Sir Charles Portal who for most of the war was chief of the Air Staff, and Sir Archibald Sinclair Secretary of State for Air. The former was the main military superior to Harris and the latter his ostensible civilian chief. For a considerable period of time after Harris assumed control of Bomber Command, he could hardly be accused of simply ignoring or defying the basic strategic premises handed down to him by these men. Indeed, the basic theory of the area offensive was settled on at the highest levels of command-notably the directive of February 14, 1942-and passed on to Harris in his capacity as head of Bomber Command. We have seen how Churchill, at least in the early years of the con