ng) failure of Bomber Command personnel to question area bombing on moral grounds, but rather on another issue: the numbing effect that modern military technol- ogy has on those assigned to employ it. A report by the Air Ministry in June 1942, based on letters from aircrew opened by the censors, stressed "the effect of airmen's remoteness from their attacks on human beings." Clausewitz identified the basic dilemma a long time before the Lancasters were sent over Germany. He referred to the depersonalization of violence, which exists when soldiers can't directly observe the consequences of their actions and thus develop an increasing callousness. "Weapons with which the enemy can be attacked while he is at a distance allow the feelings, the 'instinct for fighting properly' so-called, to remain almost at rest, and this so much the more according as the range of their effects is greater."45 Presum- ably the act of dropping bombs from 20,000 feet would fall into this category. It is also important in this context to recognize that aircrew were generally shielded from the idea that their mission was simply to devastate German cities. Indeed, the subterfuge consistently used in explaining the area offensive to the average British citizen was also applied in the briefing of the pilots. As one authority on Bomber Command has written, "Crews were given all the information available about the target's importance [but] given it in terms which organizations disenchanted with Bomber Command like the Foreign Office, the Ministry of Economic Warfare and (increas- ingly) the Anglican hierarchy could accept. They were rarely given much which could stand up to stringent examination on the basis of known facts."46 The truth of this observation is attested to by the comments of a pilot some years after the war. He recalled that his one clear memory of being briefed to bomb whole areas was at Essen in July 1943. "At that point we were not aware that we were bombing civilians as such, be