Force. Now we have photographs showing whole streets of working-class houses being blown skyhigh by our bombs. . . . Every day the war continues it will become harder, not only materially but spiritually, to build a new and better world.54 The House listened in silence to this speech, without any of the normal heckling that might typically confront such remarks. There seemed to be some unspoken respect for the valor-and perhaps the insight-of a member who could address such issues regardless of possible political retribution. Salter's peroration was particularly moving and summarized all the anguish which he felt at the course of events. "Is there no pity in the whole world?" he asked. "Are all our hearts hardened and coarsened by events?" There are two aspects of Salter's protest against area bombing that induce uneasiness perhaps even in the most sympathetic. It could legitimately be objected that as a pacifist Salter wasn't particularly concerned about area bombing per se. He was opposed to all violence, and bombing just happened to be a particularly dramatic example of the phenomenon that he abhorred as a general matter. One could admire his consistency in this sense but be uneasy about how his opposition to all matters military blurred the specifics of his (and others') case against area bombing. Salter's pacifism also led him into certain political stances that were at the least uncomfortable for his fellow opponents of British bombing policy. The reason he urged an immedi- ate truce with Germany after the Nazi conquest of Poland was that he now saw no further issue to prolong hostilities, Poland having disappeared from the map of Europe. Salter also allowed as how he was prepared if necessary to accept a Nazi victory in the war, since pacifist principles were eventually bound to prevail. These were not sentiments that were calculated to ease the path of those wanting to sway British opinion toward a more restrained use of military technology in the struggle w