lection that he wrote at the time, Liddell Hart delivered himself of the following sentiments: It will be ironical if the defenders of civilization depend for victory upon the most barbaric, and unskilled, way of winning a war that the modern world has scen. .. . We are now counting for victory on success in the way of degrading it to a new low level-as represented by indiscriminate (night) bombing and indiscriminate starvation. . . . If our pounding of German cities, by massed night-bombing, proves the decisive factor, it should be a sobering thought that but for Hitler's folly in attacking Russia (and consequently using up his bomber  Ethics and Airpower in World War II The Subjects of the Realm 107 having much of an effect on the German war effort, their moral justification became increasingly problematic. 106 force there, as well as diverting his resources mainly into other weapons) we and the Germans would now be 'Cologning' each other's cities with the advantage on Germany's side, in this mad competition in mutual devastation.35 The purist might wish that Liddell Hart had condemned area bombing simply because it involved the death of innocents. In fact, his moral stance derived, at least in part, out of questions of military utility. Yet it hardly seems fair not to allot him at least a measure of credit for arriving at-and accepting-the moral conclusion to which his strategic logic led him. There were a good many others who agreed with his strategic analysis but were unable or unwilling to draw the appropriate moral inference; their attitude was that the area offensive, while limited in utility, must be having at least some effect on the German war effort and thus was worth continuing. How to account for this rather remarkable conversion from enthusiastic supporter of strategic bombing to captious critic?36 In any such transforma- tion there is bound to remain an element of puzzle, and for the cynic, grounds for skepticism or even derision. It is curious in th