in France but were making rapid progress against the increasingly shattered Ger man defenses. At this point, the debate resumed over strategy for Bombe Command in its attacks on Germany itself. There was a clear consensus on the part of the Combined Chiefs of Staff as well as most other informed observer that Bomber Command would do best at this point to concentrate on Germano facilities as well as the enemy's communications network. The prospects the Harris's forces could now carry out this sort of precision bombing campaign moreover, seemed almost beyond dispute. Earlier limited strikes by the British and Americans against petroleum targets in Germany had proved a great succe 19 By September, the Luftwaffe's fuel supply had been reduced to ten thousand tons of octane, whereas a monthly minimum of around 160,000 tons was needed. Bomber Command's ability to hit oil targets, as well as its efficiency in attacking the German transportation system, demonstrated prior to D-Day, suggested that it was indeed capable now of a general precision bombing campaign. That this was within its reach was indicated even more by the severe deterioration in German air defenses by this stage of the war. The Luftwaffe's lack of fuel, the severe attrition inflicted on the German fighter force by introduction of the American P-51 Mustang, and the steady loss of German radar and ground control stations in France made the skies over Germany increasingly comfortable for Allied aircraft. From September onward, in fact, the Allies came to enjoy what the British official history termed "virtual operational omnipo- tence" in the air, at night, and even during the day. The latter point was a key one: daylight bombing, with relatively modest losses, promised a degree of accuracy in hitting targets that was crucial to any precision bombing campaign. In pondering all this, however, Arthur Harris saw no need to abandon his long-held belief in the essential correctness of the area bombing strategy. As