ent Bishop of Chichester to request a statement in the House of Lords on the aims of British bombing. Temple refused, saying "I am not at all disposed to be the mouthpiece of the concern which I know exists, because I do not share it." Even while rejecting the Bishop of Chichester's appeal, Temple did recognize that there was serious concern over area bombing, and on various occasions he paid tribute to the sincerity of the protesters and to their right 99 to raise questions. Even while strongly anti-pacifist himself, he spoke admiringly of Quakers and others who followed their beliefs. He called as well for understanding treatment of the small conscientious objector com- munity in Britain. Moreover, Temple declined to emulate his World War I predecessor in issuing "prayers for victory." His attitude was that there were many sincere German Christians as well, and that to pray for victory over them was inappropriate. Ultimately Temple can be seen as a man genuinely struggling with diverse considerations. He was a firm supporter of the British war effort, and eschewed any temptation to dictate to the government on strategy. At the same time, he recognized the essential tragedy of what was happening and agonized over the human cost of the struggle, both to friend and foe. As he described his position, "To kill is right, if at all, relatively and not absolutely; that is, it can only be right in special circumstances." The need to defeat Naziism was for him that special circumstance, but that did not mean he exulted in the struggle, as some others did. He rather mournfully summarized his thinking: "We are involved in an entanglement due to the sin of mankind, including our own, in which the best thing we can do is still a bad thing. None the less, it is right to do it because it is the best possible. And so we have got to do it and be penitent while we do it."25 Adopting this sort of stance, of course, left Temple open to criticism and from quite opposing points of view.