al surrender came only seven weeks later), it was hard to imagine by what calculation it could have been considered fit for destruction. Some weeks later I was in London and paid a visit to the Imperial War Museum. This is a magnificent collection of information and artifacts on military history, and in particular the British experience with war in the 20th century. Overall, it celebrates the British success in waging war and is at times a self-congratulatory account of Britain's ability to endure and prevail during wartime. There was, for example, a particularly interesting exhibit of the courage of the British people during the German blitz of London in 1940-1941. In all of the exhibits in the Imperial War Museum, only one struck a discordant note. This had to do with British bombing of Germany in World War II. One of the pictures in this display carried a caption stating that the "strategic bombing offensive played a major but by no means decisive role in victory in World War II." There were several references to how "contro- versial" British bombing of Germany had been and a particular comment on Dresden, "where thousands of civilians died." Remarkably for a museum that generally was a testament to British aptitude (and fair play) in war, there was a frank statistic to the effect that "between 300,000 and 600,000 German civilians died in the British bombing offensive." Overall the impression seemed to be of some embarrassment at the efforts of Bomber Command in World War II, particularly when this exhibit was compared to the rest of the museum and its tributes to British arms. These encounters with Würzberg and the Imperial War Museum aroused in me more than the normal curiosity about the circumstances behind British strategic bombing of Germany in World War II. I already had some famil- iarity with the general details of that policy (who has not heard of Dresden?), but I began to read into the literature concerning British air policy in a more systematic fashio