e earlier. .. . After the middle of 1944 there was often, though not always, a choice between area attacks on towns and precise attacks on oil plants, railway targets and other installations. Owing to deep disagreements, the effort was divided to a greater extent than it need have been and it seems virtually certain that Germany's downfall could have been accelerated if a greater concentration had been achieved. Operationally it could have been achieved. If it had been, some months might have been taken off the duration of the war.32 these technical and resource difficulties were resolved (e.g., more heavy bomb- ers, more navigational aids), it would be logical to revert to a strategy that promised more concrete returns than simply killing lots of German civilians. The governmental opposition to Harris's area offensive strategy could be found in various places. Notable was the resistance within the Air Ministry itself, and in particular within the Directorate of Bomber Operations. By the end of 1943, there was an increasing disillusionment with Harris's claims concerning the achievements of Bomber Command. His assertions were frequently refuted by specific facts and figures assembled by the Air Staff, and given the development of the Pathfinder Force and navigational aids such as OBOE and H2S, the hope of many was that the new equipment and improved training and tactics would lead the way toward more precise night attacks on targets in Germany.33 The staff of the Directorate of Bomber Operations were the personal advisers to Sir Charles Portal on all matters relating to bombing policy. Group-Captain S. O. Bufton, an experienced Bomber Command pilot, became head of the directorate in 1942 and immediately expressed his doubts about the wisdom of the area offensive. Bufton became famous (or notorious, depending on one's point of view) for his adherence to the concept of precision bombing. He regarded area bombing as only a temporary expedient until precision attacks on