l unfeeling toughness might develop toward the suffering of Germans who had tolerated or even abetted such abuses in the first place. 88 be given for not smashing German cities. "Why must Government always shirk the moral issue? Have we not the courage to say that to take reprisals is wrong in itself, unethical, unchristian and unworthy of the British people?"2 It has to be recognized as well that a great many in Britain, in fact a majority of the population, seem to have had little real sense of what the area bombing of Germany actually involved. Official government spokesmen, of course, went out of their way to deny that Bomber Command was attacking German civilians. The steady claim was that British aircrews were targeting strictly military objectives. As late as 1944, a public opinion poll revealed that 75 percent of those questioned assumed that Bomber Command was being directed solely at military targets. Only one in ten was aware that bombs were falling on other sites as well (e.g., the center of German cities.)4 Perhaps more people should have been able to infer the actual strategy, but as one analysis on the subject has it, people preferred to feel rather than know about strategic bombing. In any event it remains that ignorance about the specifics of the air war was seemingly widespread among the British people virtually to the end of the war. There are some who might quibble at the notion that Britain has always been the most civilized and innocent nation in the world. Nevertheless, one of the images of British society that has prevailed-and not only among Britons themselves-is that, historically, standards of civility have been unusually high and there has been a comparatively strong devotion to norms of humane conduct. Assuming that these perceptions have at least some basis in fact, it is a matter of considerable interest to evaluate the general reaction of the British citizen to the area bombing offensive against German cities conducted in his or her n