dgment, and his inability or unwillingness to change produced evil. The Commander-In-Chief: Winston Churchill We have painted Sir Arthur Harris as a distinctly limited and rather unpleas- ant individual. He was all too glad to be given a loose leash to undertake the progressive devastation of German cities, and of course his professional judgment as to the effect of such a campaign on the German war effort had to influence the calculations of civilian policy-makers. But what about those who held the end of the leash? If their overall power of decision was supreme,  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 44 The Masters of the Realm so perhaps was their moral responsibility, and for none more than Britain's wartime Prime Minister. In assessing Winston Churchill's role in and attitude toward the area bombing of Germany, one is confronted with a curious package of ambigu- ities and seeming contradictions. By selecting certain statements from Chur- chill over a long period of time, it can be demonstrated that he was a fervent believer in strategic air power generally; by selecting others, it can be shown that he was skeptical about the actual potential of bombing to defeat a formidable enemy. Perhaps one key to the Churchillian attitude toward Bomber Command's activities was his love of the dramatic if risky military venture. As one distinguished military historian put it, "Winston Churchill felt intense exhilaration in the sense of battle, and the sounds of battle-more indeed, than most professional soldiers." As Churchill himself said, "I lov the bangs."43 Did Churchill ever feel any moral compunctions about the area bombing of Germany? Given certain statements he made before the war broke out one might suppose that at least some doubts might have existed. Even prior to World War I, he had written in a letter to the First Lord of the Admiralt that he did not believe civilized nations would ever resort to submarine warfare (that is, unprovoked attacks on civilian ships). I