ear targeting doctrine, in particular the American strategy of putting millions of Soviet citizens at risk as part of the concept of deterrence. In suggesting that these debates (and others) were in many ways reflective of the one waged over British bombing policy in World War II, it is important to identify the similarities. One obvious parallel is that both British society and American society have long prided themselves on their adherence to relatively humane values and civilized standards of conduct. Both countries conceive that they traditionally have been in the forefront of the struggle to establish higher norms of behavior for others in the world community to emulate. The British during World War II, and the Ameri- cans for most of the period after 1945, were similar in that both saw themselves as opposing a particularly virulent threat to these very stan- dards. In both instances there was the notion of the "supreme national emergency," which, many argued, justified the adoption of measures that might be rejected in the absence of such a fundamental challenge. To what extent each nation should compromise some of its basic values in meeting the threat was a basic point of contention. British decisions concerning the bombing of Germany, and American use of airpower as well, may also be seen as a response to certain basic technical factors. In each instance the British and Americans developed devastating new capabilities for wreaking havoc on the enemy, and there was an inevitable pressure to employ (or threaten to employ) these new capabilities in the national defense. Moreover, each set of decisions was made in an atmosphere in which previous moral constraints on the use of violence by states had come under severe pressure. The British turn toward area bombing was in a sense only a logical extension of methods used in World War I, in particular the German use of submarine warfare against xv civilian shipping and the British de facto policy of trying to starv