ts; a desire to avoid subjecting the Church and its individual members to the persecution that would almost certainly follow such a denunciation; and, finally, a desire to avoid placing the individual in an impossible conflict of conscience which would probably be resolved in favor of the nation's demands anyway.28 All these are strong and understandable factors bearing on the role of the church in a war situation. To be sure, their full acceptance carries the risk of making the church essentially irrelevant during a time when its moral guidance is most needed, and may even render nugatory the church's traditional devotion to just war doctrine. Putting it this way, however, may somewhat misstate the issue. The fact is that Temple and others felt that the air offensive was indeed a morally legitimate method of defeating a univer- sally-recognized peril. One can criticize their insensitivity to questions of proportionality but hardly their bona fides in attempting to decide on the lesser evil. That they managed to avoid the sort of unalloyed Vansittartism that affected some in British society was also no mean accomplishment, given the general antipathy toward the Nazi regime felt by all. Yet there were some at the time who argued that simply avoiding the extremes of anti-Ger- man racial prejudice was not enough. They were convinced that area bomb- ing was inherently an illegitimate act of war and an affront to the conscience. They openly attempted to convince their fellow citizens that a crime was being conducted in their name. THE DISSENTERS It might fairly be said that there has rarely, if ever, been a more convincing set of reasons for the citizens of a democratic society to give the benefit of the doubt to their government's conduct of a war effort than was the case with the British in World War II. The issues behind the fighting seemed about as practically and morally compelling as any that are likely to appear in war. That Hitler was embarked on a program of ess