in European politics. The policy of unconditional surrender was a particular bête noire to Liddell Hart in this sense. It should be noted in passing that Liddell Hart was not the only military historian in Britain to express his outrage at the area offensive. Major General J. F. C. Fuller was in many ways Liddell Hart's equal in prestige as an analyst of military affairs. Both had written widely on the offensive potential of mobile armored warfare, and their ideas had made a considerable impact in 109 various quarters, especially in Germany itself. Fuller was, if anything, more outspoken than Liddell Hart in his comments on Bomber Command's activities. In August 1943 he drafted an article for the London Evening Standard in which he opined that "the worst devastations of the Goths, Vandals, Huns, Seljuks, and Mongols pale into insignificance when com- pared to the material and moral damage now wrought" by British bombing of Germany.41 The newspaper's editor wrote back saying that he lacked the nerve to publish Fuller's article. Fuller was similar to Liddell Hart in that he was appalled not only by the sheer destruction being visited on German cities but also by the inherent strategic flaw in the area offensive. The declaration on unconditional surrender, in his view, made the notion of ending the war through shattering German morale a non sequitur: how could one terrorize the Germans into demanding peace if there were no peace terms to be negotiated? Fuller and Liddell Hart also shared something else, and that was an almost total ostracism by the government during the war. Despite the fact that they could rightly be viewed as two of Britain's most perceptive military (if not necessarily political) analysts, their talents were evidently not seen as needed in any capacity by those in authority. Liddell Hart thought that perhaps his banishment from an official role might be changing in March 1944, when he was summoned for a session before the War Cabinet. Instead, he wa