s in fact dismissed from office). As Prime Minister, then, he was inclined to operate within a general military consensus and avoid any dramatic conflict with the major figures around him. Once, when urged to dismiss a certain general, he replied plaintively, "It is not so easy as that. Lloyd George did not trust Haig in the last  Ethics and Airpower in World War II 58 The Masters of the Realm war-yet he could not sack him." It may well be that Churchill simply wanted a prominent group of decision-makers as permanent fixtures to diffuse responsibility for controversial policy judgments.67 Under the circumstances, then, there was much to recommend having Harris stay in place, even though he became increasingly difficult as the war progressed. The gingerly relationship between Churchill and Harris is perhaps best reflected in Harris's response to the Prime Minister's minute about terror bombing in the aftermath of the Dresden attack. This was as close as Harris ever came to a direct attack on Churchill. To suggest that we have bombed German cities 'simply for the sake of increasing the terror though under other pretexts' and to speak of our offensive as including 'mere acts of terror and wanton destruction' is an insult both to the bombing policy of the Air Ministry and to the manner in which that policy has been executed by Bomber Command. This sort of thing, if it deserves an answer, will certainly receive none from me after three years of implementing official policy. We have never gone in for terror bombing.68 Even at this late stage of the war, the Prime Minister, by amending his original memorandum so as to delete any reference to terror bombing. showed a concern with not ruffling the feathers of the man whom he had appointed to oversee the strategic air offensive against Germany. Sir Charles Portal was a man in whom Churchill reposited a great deal of trust and confidence; moreover, Portal had served as head of Bomber Command himself. Given this background, Por