ffect of Allied bombing raids on the German transportation system. He commented in November 1944 that a "successful continuation of these attacks would be capable of resulting in a production catastrophe of decisive significance for the further conduct of the war." A month later, he observed that "we were fortunate that the enemy did not put this far-reaching plan into effect until about six Three major factors were associated in Germany's defeat. The first and most obvious was the over-running of her territory by the armies of the Allies. The second was the breakdown of her war industry, which was mainly a consequence of the bombing of her communications system. The third was the drying-up of her resources of liquid fuel, and the disruption of her chemical industry, which resulted from the bombing of synthetic-oil plants and refineries.47 The specialists may quibble over whether the attacks on oil or transporta- tion were most decisive, but what is striking about this analysis is the absence of any reference to the effect of general city bombing, which Bomber Command continued to emphasize right up to the last days of the war. In an interrogation of Albert Speer in July 1948, the German armaments minister rated six different targeting systems in terms of their effect on the German military position. The area bombing of cities he ranked fifth in importance (barely ahead of attacks on naval installations, shipping activ- ity, and airfields). In his own view, it was the "American attacks, which followed a definite system of assault on industrial targets, [which] were by far the most dangerous. It was in fact these attacks which caused the breakdown of the German armaments industry."48 This is not to say that Bomber Command played no part in the assault on the German oil and transportation systems, nor that the Americans did not occasionally engage in general area attacks themselves (notably at Dresden). It is to say that Harris's insistence on continuing his area offe