s that almost inevitably would spell either death, injury, or a long period as a prisoner of war. In "Lincolnshire Bomber Station," a pilot named Henry Treece penned some lines that seemed to catch the whole atmosphere of the proceedings: Across the road the homesick Romans made The ground-mist thickens to a milky shroud; Through flat, damp fields call sheep, mourning their dead In cracked and timeless voices, unutterably sad, Suffering for all the world, in Lincolnshire. And I wonder how the Romans liked it here; If we accept that the aircrew of Bomber Command were sustained by the feeling that the bombers were playing a decisive role in bringing down the Nazis, there was nevertheless one potentially troublesome cloud on the horizon that could perhaps have affected their morale. Very few combat soldiers like to think that their actions violate all the common rules of humanity in the practice of war. There is an interesting comment in Neil Sheehan's biography of John Paul Vann, the quintessential American career soldier in Vietnam, that provides a reference point here. Vann was appalled by the indiscriminate shelling and bombing of "suspected" Viet Cong hamlets. He adhered to the ideal of the soldier as the champion of the weak. A soldier who valued his honor and understood the purpose of his profession did not deliberately kill or wound ordinary people. . .. Vann had come to Vietnam to wage war on other men, not on their mothers and fathers or on their wives and children. That these people .. .. undoubtedly did sympathize with the Viet Cong and helped them did not strip them of their noncombatant status and make them fair game in his mind.34 Flat fields, no sun, the muddy misty dawn, And always, above all, the mad rain dripping down, Rusting sword and helmet, wetting the feet And soaking to the bone, down to the very heart. 32 How to explain the psychological strengths that sustained what otherwise might seem an irrational commitment? How could R. V. Jones say (evi