a nation should even accept disadvantage in wartime if the alternative was the destruction of basic humane values. This particular publication led to some unforeseen, and for Vera Brittain particularly unpleasant, consequences. Her analysis appeared in abbreviated form in a special edition of the American pacifist magazine Fellowship, restyled as "Massacre by Bombing." Twenty-eight leading American clergymen and other opinion leaders appended a foreword to Brittain's article, denouncing what they called the "carnival of death" 125 currently being created by Allied bombing. A storm of controversy erupted in the United States as a consequence of her (and her fellow authors') criticism, reaching even into the White House and causing both the President's Press Secretary and the Under-Secretary of War specifically to denounce the musings of the writers in Fellowship. Brittain mournfully recorded that the effects of this episode followed her even after the war: "Such writings as I could still publish [in the United States] never emerged from the shadow which had darkened my name."65 If Vera Brittain felt a cloud over her name in the United States, it was minor compared to the reaction she experienced in her own country. It is difficult to read her recollections of the wartime years and not be moved by the powerful sense of isolation and almost universal condemnation that became her lot at that time. The fact that official authority remained relatively tolerant of her activities did not mean that they turned a totally blind eye to them. She recalled how she became "a suspect, haunted by police supervi- sion, thwarted by prohibitions in an England no longer tranquil or friendly."66 She received official word that it was unlikely she would be allowed to visit the United States for the duration of the war. She had an invitation to give a series of lectures in India, but permission was denied for that trip as well. There were even inquiries in Parliament as to whether she shou