arshaling yards, and thick-walled variants with delay fuses to penetrate deep into industrial facilities and destroy machinery. Tests demonstrated the huge difference in cratering effects between the first generation of small bombs and the second generation of larger ones. The Mark II 25-pound bomb, with 11 pounds of explosive, produced a crater 8 feet in diameter and 4 feet deep, while the Mark VI 1,000-pound bomb, with 550 pounds of ex- plosive, yielded a crater 45 feet in diameter and 18 feet deep in the same soil type—a staggering difference with obvious implications for bombing industrial and railroad target sets.42  The requirement for larger bombs, along with detailed damage assessments, also resulted in organizational and training improvements. By 1918, all reconnaissance and observation aircraft, and 5 to 10 percent of bombers, carried cameras. This required the establishment of photographic and intelligence sections at each squadron, which took months to complete as officers moved through newly established training pipelines to the squadrons. Once at their duty stations, photographic and intelligence officers analyzed photographs depicting the effects of bombs on marshaling yards, supply depots, industrial facilities, aerodromes, and other targets beyond artillery range. This demanded new skills as the number of bombing missions increased dramatically in the war’s final months. New tools such as stereoscopic viewing devices and workstations with bright lighting revealed the contrasts and shadowing in aerial photographs.  By fall 1917, the British Intelligence School was open. The Americans followed suit in July 1918, with the creation of a school in Langres.*2 Before these training centers opened, intelligence officers received no formal instruction in tools and techniques. Whatever training they received was on the job. Photointerpretation skills learned at the schools helped officers assess bombing results and work effectively with photographic officers.