oposing true morale bombing, that is 2,000 tons of H.E. per square mile not 100 to 200 tons as of old containing 50% or more of incendiaries. . . . If we do not win this war in the next 60 or so days trying to get oil down, in the winter, we may be faced with a considerably stronger G.A.F. next Spring!+%+  Now we are faced with one of the champions of precision bombardment claiming that there was somehow a great deal of difference between “true” morale bombing based, presumably, on weight of tonnage delivered per square mile and the more mundane and ineffectual morale bombing that had already ravaged Hamburg, every city in the Ruhr, and so many other urban areas. Things were in- deed getting strange in the morale-bombing debate, all at a point when morale was no longer mentioned in the POINTBLANK directive!  Spaatz made his volte-face in January 1945, by which time he was an ardent supporter of THUNDERCLAP’s Berlin variant.12 Doolittle now had to apply common sense and question the need to bomb a city with no military targets anywhere near the aim point, which happened to be the city center. He reminded Spaatz: “The chances of terrorizing into submission, by merely an increased concentration of bombing, a people who have been subjected to intense bombing for four years is extremely remote.”1©3 Spaatz remained adamant and instructed Doolittle that Berlin was to be attacked “whenever conditions do not—repeat not—indicate possibility of visual bombing of oil targets.”14 Spaatz’s motives are unclear to say the least. He fought publicity for the THUNDERCLAP raid on Berlin and its potential to disrupt the flow of reinforcements to the Russian Front. Spaatz thus appears at least momentarily to have abandoned opposition to morale bombing, given his insistence that the city center, not its marshaling yards, be the aim point. The raid on Berlin by more than 1,000 USAAF bombers on 3 February 1945 featured visual bombing with the aim point at city center—hardly in line with USA