428 This order brings home just how absent the Luftwaffe had become, even on the Eastern Front.  On 21 November, all logistics units received an order to prevent fuel losses. Trains were to be loaded and dispatched with maximum speed, traveling at half capacity with a maximum load of 225 tons, and brought up to the point where a ban on rail traffic, as a result of air attacks, was in force. Until they could be sent forward or their contents offloaded at depots, the trains’ crews were to disperse tanker cars at small train stations and camouflage them. Whenever possible, they stored fuel in tunnels. Only as much aviation fuel as necessary for combat operations went to airfields.182 Of course, the intercepted order also told intelligence officers how the Germans hid their tanker cars, which then came in for even heavier attacks.  And then there was the continuing saga of Panzer Lehr. During this division’s refitting in November, there was no fuel for maneuvers. New recruits, most of whom had never driven a tank or truck,  Thnd almanct no trainina hafara thay urant inta artian durina tha Ardannac anffancitra Traniant ancidante and hich waohiela and eraurlaceac fallaurad Tha ditricinn raraitrad ite fiial ineramante inet hafara  Page 286 of 423 67%  Even as this argument raged, the oil offensive continued at full tilt. Attacks during the first week of November that used blind-bombing techniques inflicted moderate damage on several oil plants and refineries.178 Despite these modest successes, virtually every CSTC bulletin from this period bemoaned the bad weather, short days, and great distances to the eastern Bergius plants.1”2 This troublesome trio made American daylight bombing of eastern German oil plants impossible, but it did not prevent the policing of western plants and refineries, which stayed out of action. And recon- naissance pilots still brought in enough photos to provide a good idea of damage done and rate of repair, as did Ultra intercepts.  One of the mos