aving been hit. In one such report, of the twenty-two oil targets attacked by at least one bomber during the period 29 July to 11 August, including fourteen crude oil refineries and eight oil plants, three were assessed as having been “heavily damaged and probably out of action,” thirteen as “heavily hit but probably still operating,” and six as “hit but probably still operating.@ All these targets were raided at night, often without moonlight for illumination, and often by strike packages of only one, two, or three bomb- ers, leaving one to wonder how anyone could have believed these reports.  Portal did not and set out to secure more reliable assessments. Writing to the Air Ministry about “the lack of information on the results of our bomber attacks, and the very small number of photographs which it has been found possible to take of objectives which have been bombed,” he asked for more photos and an oil expert to help him interpret them.” Portal received both, the former from an increasingly capable PDU with larger numbers of Spitfires, and the latter in the form of D. A. C. Dewdney, a civilian oil expert. However, both soon exposed poor bombing accuracy. In the days after raids on oil targets in December 1940, when PDU Spitfires began taking poststrike photos regularly and PIU interpreters began producing damage reports, it quickly became clear that aircrews al- most always missed their targets.  Results of raids on the two oil plants at Gelsenkirchen during the first three weeks of December 1940 proved discouraging. A total of 196 mediumbomber sorties delivered 260 tons of bombs, with the vast majority of aircrews claiming accurate bombing and significant damage. In fact, only minor damage was done, and few bomb craters were visible on aerial photos. Most bombs had fallen out- side the area of coverage, meaning aircrews missed by 2 miles or more.72  Dewdney added to this gloomy picture with his assertion that intelligence analysts at MEW had badly underestimate