the Russians on the Eastern Front.”2°2 The Fiihrer himself contributed to this threat of operational catastrophe by ordering the Ardennes offensive, which consumed half of the fuel produced in November and December and thus made it impossible for German armies in the east to rebuild depleted stocks.2®2 The Germans launched their attack with only one or two fuel increments for each heavy division even with this huge di- version of fuel from the east. And a mere eight oil plants were all that stood between the last vestiges of German battlefield mobility and cataclysmic fuel shortages. They were not long in coming.  The Ardennes offensive, although it shook Allied leaders, was calamitous for the Germans, who had a fraction of the fuel available just ten months earlier. The plan was to capture American fuel dumps to continue their offensive. They did not capture any. Because units had so little fuel and had to advance over muddy or snow-covered terrain, which drove up gasoline use alarmingly, they could hardly maneuver. We have seen how this affected Panzer Lehr. Another division refitting before the offensive had similar problems. A prisoner from this unit said there had been no gasoline at all before moving to the railroad station to entrain for the Ardennes offensive. Each vehicle had just 5 liters (1.32 gallons) of fuel. Consequently, over half the division’s vehicles ran out of fuel before reaching the train station and had to be towed the rest of the way by wreckers. Many half-tracks and trucks, just delivered from the factories, broke down and needed complete overhauls, or had to be scrapped entirely, because the fuel allocation was insufficient to run in their engines.2%  In the meantime, heavy divisions in the east—which outnumbered those in the west three to one—had to make due, as did units in Italy, with the other half of November-December production.2&% Consequently, they could not rebuild fuel reserves and had far too little gasoline once the Russian wint