e time, to hit point targets at night, is one case in point. He read the intelligence carefully, recognized the political pressures building up in favor of city bombing, and threw his weight behind the effort. The fact that available intelligence later drove him to shift his support from city attacks to transportation and oil further substantiates his willingness to give intelligence serious consideration. Portal’s effort to stop the bombing of U-boat bases in France, though ultimately unsuccessful, was another example of the attention he paid to intelligence. His support for USAAF daylight bombing never flagged, even though it began before the Americans had proven themselves. The intelligence he received as American bombing picked up, and as Spaatz’s aircrews destroyed the Luftwaffe day fighter force, kept him on course here. Portal’s strong support for the transportation, oil, and bridge plans indicates that he understood their potential synergy as well as Tedder. This flexible and pragmatic approach to intelligence allowed Portal to support Eisenhower and Tedder throughout the latter period of the war. Denis Richards noted that “Portal’s sustained support of Tedder was a vital factor in the achievement of victory, first in Africa and then in Europe.” Perhaps Portal’s only notable failure to use intelligence effectively (aside from raids on U-boat bases—a political battle he could not win) was his inability to rein Harris in completely as he persisted in pursuing his city-bombing effort even as he attacked oil targets.22  Harris, although wedded to his city-bombing effort throughout the war, did recognize after the war that while the senior leadership had “bet on an outsider” with respect to oil, it proved to be the “nanacea target” heavv homhers could most significantlv affect. His real failures in the intelligence arena were. first. his unwillingness to keen an onen mind about the renorts he saw. and more  Page 209 of 423 52%  i, —  One of the striking things ab