rward fuel and ammunition, and conducting mobile defensive op- erations. The same set of effects was in play to an even greater extent than in France.424  Page 288 of 423 68%  only if weather and tactical considerations made success likely.*®* This order brings home just how absent the Luftwaffe had become, even on the Eastern Front.  On 21 November, all logistics units received an order to prevent fuel losses. Trains were to be loaded and dispatched with maximum speed, traveling at half capacity with a maximum load of 225 tons, and brought up to the point where a ban on rail traffic, as a result of air attacks, was in force. Until they could be sent forward or their contents offloaded at depots, the trains’ crews were to disperse tanker cars at small train stations and camouflage them. Whenever possible, they stored fuel in tunnels. Only as much aviation fuel as necessary for combat operations went to airfields.182 Of course, the intercepted order also told intelligence officers how the Germans hid their tanker cars, which then came in for even heavier attacks.  And then there was the continuing saga of Panzer Lehr. During this division’s refitting in November, there was no fuel for maneuvers. New recruits, most of whom had never driven a tank or truck, had almost no training before they went into action during the Ardennes offensive. Frequent accidents and high vehicle and crew losses followed. The division received its fuel increments just before the Ardennes offensive and hid them in a railway tunnel. Bayerlein was promised five but received two.122 This, he surmised, might give his division 62 miles of movement. In fact, because muddy and snowy conditions doubled or even tripled fuel use, the range was well under 40 miles.124 The division had insufficient fuel during the move to the front, and as always, fighter-bombers singled out fuel trucks. “Gasoline,” Bayerlein said,  was getting short, and every drop of it had to be brought up from Troisdorf [a distance o