tion assets.+  The United States Strategic Bombing Survey agreed, saying, “The attack on transportation was the decisive blow that completely disorganized the German economy. It reduced war production in all categories and made it difficult to move what was produced to the front. The attack also limited the tactical mobility of the German army.” It also noted the same flaws Mierzejewski later observed: “The very serious declines in traffic movement which had been imposed by the end of 1944 were not recognized and the strength of the system as of that date was overestimated. Had the effectiveness of the attacks been fully recognized they might have been pressed home in a more systematic fashion, producing an earlier collapse of the railroad system.” But the offensive succeeded despite these intelligence shortcomings. Freight cars loaded in the Reich totaled 900,000 for the week ending 19 August 1944. The total dropped to 700,000 per week by 31 October. A further drop to 550,000 by 23 December was followed by a catastrophic decline to 214,000 by 3 March 1945. Attacks on inland waterways were even more successful. Raids closed the Dortmund-Ems and Mittelland canals on 23 September. Barge traffic on the Rhine and in the Ruhr was constantly interdicted by October. The commodity most affected by these disasters was coal. It became impossible to move this lifeblood of the German economy, as Mierzejewski described it, by water, and after November it was nearly impossible by rail. The results were disastrous for industry and the Reichsbahn, whose coal stocks de-  plinad fram an 1Q-daw c1mnlty in Actohar ta a A &_daw cunnity in Pahriary 4  Page 291 of 423 69%  ELEVEN  ENDGAME, NOVEMBER 1944-MAY 1945  Air Intelligence, the Final Destruction of Oil and Transportation Assets, and the Defeat of the Wehrmacht  There are two basic principles governing the aims of the war. One principle, according to Clausewitz, has as the aim of the war the direct destruction of the fighting forces