lages and space can’t be found for large cameras if the original construction has failed to provide it.”=4 Having seen the photographic equipment of the world’s other major air forces, he believed American cameras and film were by far the best. “And yet,” Wilson concluded, “—through some oversight—we are now faced with the possibility of having to scrap some of this superb equipment by adopting airplanes unable to carry it.”=2  Wilson’s concerns, and Goddard’s, were well founded. In an inexplicable oversight, America’s senior airmen failed to grasp the importance of highperformance reconnaissance aircraft until confronted with the vital role of the RAF’s Spitfire and Mosquito, and by then, it was too late. Consequently, they used converted P-38 fighters (renamed the F-5). These lacked the combat ceilings of the Spitfire and Mosquito and were therefore vulnerable, resulting in more lost aircraft and pilots.*4 Fortunately, the same was not true of the British effort to develop photoreconnaissance aircraft and cameras. Much of the credit for these, which proved vital to the development of air intelligence during World War II, belonged to F. C. V. Laws.  ne a ae  oT eee  OO OOOO eet”  Laws’s Contributions  The so-called father of RAF photography got his start early in the Great War. In 1915, as a sergeant major, Laws recommended to his superior, then-Wing Commander Trenchard, commander of First Wing, that the wing’s new experimental photographic section be duplicated in all Royal Flying Corps wings, and that he be allowed to establish and provide training for each in turn. Trenchard sup- ported Laws’s efforts, and as the war continued, an increasing number of bomber units received their own photographic sections, which Laws brought to a high state of expertise.*4  Among Laws’s greatest contributions was his successful effort, along with several other officers, to develop the L-type and LB-type cameras, introduced in 1917 and mainstays in aerial photography until well in