l refinery near Hamburg. This strike photo shows the Americans hit their target through solid cloud cover. Black smoke from the burning refinery is rising through the clouds. Poor fall and winter weather forced the Allies to bomb through cloud cover, often m g the target and causing serious collateral damage. However, the results were sometimes very good, so high weight of effort and frequent attacks became the norm to keep German oil production and rail movement low during winter 1944-1945. (USAFA)  Despite Tedder’s advocacy, the picture was not entirely rosy. An ACIU F Section report on more than twenty recent attacks on rail centers showed that in no case was throughput entirely impaired. Only four attacks resulted in any interruption in service, and no more than 50 percent in any one case.#4 Sobered by this reminder that even good bombing using the technologies and techniques at hand was often not particularly accurate, the CSTC asked photointerpreters of F Section to publish a study every week to assist with determining target priorities. Central to the problem of poor  Page 307 of 423 729  Heading for home after attacking an oil refinery near Hamburg. This strike photo shows the Americans hit their target through solid cloud cover. Black smoke from the burning refinery is rising through the clouds. Poor fall and winter weather forced the Allies to bomb through cloud cover, often missing the target and causing serious collateral damage. However, the results were sometimes very good, so high weight of effort and frequent attacks became the norm to keep German oil production and rail movement low during winter 1944-1945. (USAFA)  Despite Tedder’s advocacy, the picture was not entirely rosy. An ACIU F Section report on more than twenty recent attacks on rail centers showed that in no case was throughput entirely impaired. Only four attacks resulted in any interruption in service, and no more than 50 percent in any one case.#4 Sobered by this reminder that even goo