t ACTS between 1927 and 1934, when a group of zealous bomber advocates on the faculty argued that “proper selection of vital targets in the industrial/economic/social structure of a modern industrialized nation, and their subsequent destruction by air attack, can lead to fatal weakening of an industrialized nation and victory through air power.”2! The ultimate manifestation of this idea was Air War Plans Division Plan 1, which brought the bomber zealots’ ideas about precision bombing and its potential into the open. Their approach, while appealing to many senior airmen, including Arnold, Spaatz, Eaker, Harris, and (early in the war) Portal, was absolutely unconvincing to the most senior officers leading the Allied war effort from 1941 to 1945, including Marshall, Ismay, Brooke, Eisenhower, Tedder, and (later) Portal. They recognized the significant role airpower could play, in conjunction with ground forces, but they never allowed airpower zealotry to determine the nature and course of bombing. The Combined Chiefs of Staff proved particularly key players here.22  During the development of bombing doctrine at ACTS, the focus turned to specific target sets. The top three included electrical power, transportation, and fuel.22 However, as Peter Faber noted, “Unfortunately—and despite the genuine belief by bomber enthusiasts that the Air Corps had the minimum skills and technology needed to meet .. . [their] .. . targeting requirements—the strategic intelligence on which proper targeting depended was still an infant art.”24 Airmen did almost nothing to develop operational targeting and damage-assessment capabilities. In this sense, the ACTS “zealots” were lineal descendants of Douhet, who said practically nothing about assessing effects and effectiveness. In fact, they placed too much faith in technology as an enabler for air warfare, a blind faith leading them to view technology itself—the B-17 and the Norden bombsight—as a panacea that would make bombing a “frictionles