nal capability had emerged by the time they entered the war. The British paid for their lack of emphasis on operational capabilities with inaccurate bomb- ing, which, ironically, their damage assessments underscored.*! The Americans, on the other hand, paid for their lack of emphasis on air intelligence with a nearly complete reliance on the British.  Most significant, on the British side, was the emergence in the late interwar period of air and economic intelligence agencies capable of gauging bombing effects and effectiveness. As the war progressed, these agencies developed an increasingly close and productive working relationship, one that grew stronger once the Americans arrived. This process resulted by 1944 in a mature Allied air intelligence organization. Of course, the British had a great deal of work to do before these things came to pass, and it is to their efforts between 1939 and 1942 that we now turn.  SIX  AIR INTELLIGENCE GROWS TO ADOLESCENCE  British Developments, 1939-1941  Bombing and Air Intelligence Deficiencies  When war came, the British were unprepared to conduct a serious bomber offensive. Some promising developments had occurred with the creation of new air and economic intelligence organizations, but the Ministry of Economic Warfare (MEW) did not come into existence until September 1939, nor were its relations with the Air Ministry and the Joint Intelligence Subcommittee either well defined or particularly rosy. Sidney Cotton was building effective photoreconnaissance and photointerpretation capabilities, which ultimately resulted in the creation of the Photographic Reconnaissance Units (PRUs) and Allied Central Interpretation Unit (CIU). However, none of these organizations existed before September 1939, and they did not begin to evolve and cooperate in a significant fashion until after the fall of France. The period between September 1939 and December 1941 was thus crucial in these new organizations’ evolution and the air intelligence exp