n doctrine and operational realities, the emerging RAF air intelligence organization had already largely developed the means to engage in precision attacks by 1941. Indeed, the tension that developed between proponents of precision and area bombing in the operations arena did not extend to the air intelligence organization,  Page 48 of 423 13%  arms strategy. To paraphrase Clausewitz, they should have their own grammar but not their own logic. Thisi is perhaps the most important lesson te to o draw from these early interwar documents: most bombing campaigns during World War II, and their supporting air intelligence, were designed to get Allied armies to the Reich as quickly as possible, at the lowest possible cost in blood and treasure, and with the greatest possible maneuver and firepower advantages. Indeed, this was the essence of bombing doctrine during the early interwar period and of bombing operations in World War II, a crucial point too often obscured by the inflammatory, counterproductive, and pointless conceptions of armies and air forces as adversarial rather than intertwined and coequal.  There is, however, a key caution in order here. Obviously, the army leadership was unlikely to allow publication of official doctrine advocating anything other than direct or indirect support of the ground effort, and any airman who disagreed had to be very careful about how he approached the problem, especially after Mitchell's court-martial. The preceding discussion should not lull us into believing all airmen embraced the early interwar focus on combined-arms doctrine with open arms, either then or later. In fact, during the Second World War, a number of senior airmen remained airpower zealots, hoping and trying for victory from the air. Harris is perhaps the best known of these, but Spaatz is also prominent among them. Of course, none of the most senior army leaders, including Marshall, would seriously entertain this course of action, so the actual employment of heav