corroborate damage reports.*2  Page 98 of 423 25%  Also fortuitous was greater cooperation between the Air Ministry and MEW. ‘The result was an increasingly fruitful relationship i in which MEW brought to bear its many economic intelligence sources and, in cooperation with the PIU, began producing outstanding third-phase reports.  CN  a  as  Calling on the Specialists: Interagency Developments  The process had its start in the recognition among air staff officers that they could not go it alone. The result was a new Air Ministry office, A.1.3(B), in April 1940 (renamed A.I.3(c)2 in November 1942), charged with tracking bombing results. At the same time, PIU began producing Air Ministry damage assessments, which the air staff shared with all interested parties. Although the Air Ministry produced raid assessment summaries until the end of the war, they became “executive summaries” of the entire bombing effort. These general overviews lacked the detail contained in MEW and PIU reports (from which they drew their content) and thus served different purposes.22  In the meantime, officers working in A.1.3(B) realized it was in everyone’s best interest to coordinate tasks and products with MEW. This resulted in the creation of the German Bomb Target Information Committee, chaired by A.1.3(B) and including representatives from the Air Ministry Plans and Intelligence Directorates and MEW. This development marked the point of departure for what soon became a close working relationship. The committee acted as a forum for sharing intelligence, agreeing on division of labor, and determining the content of each organization’s reports. Most importantly, it brought intelligence analysts together, allowing them to build professional relationships. By 1941, the cooperation vacuum gave way to a framework in which each party knew its “lanes in the road.” This proved vital for the production of target materials and damage assessments.*+  During the first year after their agency’s creatio