mage to the distillation unit’s pipe works. Full production could resume in three to four months. The plant was still completely inactive seventeen days after the raid.*2  The attack on Bohlen also caused severe damage, with a loss of ten weeks’ production—65,000 tons of oil. Direct hits on the power plant and local electricity grid also caused a loss of about 45,000 kilowatts to the electric grid. Full preattack production would not resume for three to four months.“4  The plant at Zeitz took the hardest hammering, with “severe general damage” causing a loss of sixteen weeks’ output, or 120,000 tons of oil. The plant would be shut down for ten weeks and working at 80 percent of capacity within five months. During a second attack in late May, “the whole plant was blanketed by a dense concentration of bombs, and damage was done to almost every unit in the vlant.” The boiler house and generator hall took two or three hits. putting the plant out of action for at least three months.42  Page 254 of 423 60%  The first major raids on synthetic oil plants in the Reich were made by 886 8th Air Force heavy bombers against Leuna, Liitzkendorf, Zeitz, Bohlen, and Briix as well as the Zwickau aircraft components plant. The crews conducted visual attacks, dropping 1,718 tons of bombs. Photointerpreters determined from strike photos that results were very good at Briix, where bombs seriously damaged the gas-generating plant, boiler house, oil-storage tanks, and gas-purification plant. Bohlen also suffered heavily, with several hits on the gas-generating plant and refinery, boiler house, condensing tower, and power plant. Zeitz sustained at least twelve hits on the gas-generating plant, three on the purification and conversion plant, one on the injector house (with another near miss), and several hits on the power plant. Damage to Leuna was good, with large fires visible in the hydrogen contact houses and numerous other buildings throughout the plant. The results at Liitzkendorf wer