igned, built, managed, or visited various facilities in Germany or German-occupied Europe. In turn, these MEW and RE8 analysts coordinated their work closely with photointerpreters at the CIU.  Third, “All comparison photographs and information of all kinds must be available for the interpreter so that he can compare the detail he obtains from any one sortie with that information obtained of the same area from all sources.” This was what intelligence personnel now call change detection. By looking at the same installation over a period of months, interpreters detected minute changes, some of which pointed to developments of great significance.  At the close of their meeting, Hemming had offered Cabell this advice: “The production side of an interpretation unit,” he said, “must be as efficient as a business concern.”=° This was a revealing statement when considered in light of Hemming’s “Three Basic Principles of Photointerpretation” because it reminds us that two very Western traditions were always at work in the air intelligence business: the scientific method, which provided a systematic approach to dealing with questions surrounding the German war economy and the effects and effectiveness of attacks against it, anda business process designed to achieve the maximum efficiency and effectiveness from a given worker or process.  Second in importance only to Cabell’s tours of PRU1 and the CIU was his visit with Group Captain F. C. V. Laws, the Air Ministry’s deputy director of photography. Cabell saw great value in a centralized office such as this, which was responsible for all aerial photography. Laws coordinated and directed RAF photographic policies, acted as liaison with the Ministry of Aircraft Production on the development and fielding of photographic equipment, provided data to the director general of equipment to implement photographic purchases, and served as chairman of the Standing Advisory Coordinating Committee on Photography and as a member of the Direc