Great Britain. They are true champions. Sebastian Cox and Professors Conrad Crane, Richard Muller, and Hal Winton also provided exceptionally valuable insights, all of which made this book a better work of scholarship than it otherwise would have been. Having said this, any errors of fact or judgment are entirely my responsibility.  A host of people at the USAF Academy Special Collections Branch, National Archives and Records Administration, Air Force Historical Research Agency, Library of Congress, and the National Archives (formerly the Public Record Office) in the United Kingdom also proved helpful. I am grateful for their insights and assistance.  Finally, and most of all, I want to thank my family for their patience and devotion as I spent many long days at the computer completing this work. Their love sustains me.  ABBREVIATIONS  A-2 (G-2) Director of Intelligence  Location 80 of 10349 %  2 —_— ~-  undermined Germany’s war economy. The aggregate results were cataclysmic for Germany’s war effort. Approaching these campaigns from an air intelligence and operational perspective, rather than a purely operational one, highlights their significance.  On a less positive note, there were also instances in which political and military leaders ignored available intelligence, refused to guide their actions according to the insights it provided, or twisted it to suit their own arguments about strategy and operations. The consequences of this behavior ranged from strains within the Anglo-American camp to the unnecessary commitment and loss of aircrews over Nazi-occupied Europe. Clearly, intelligence had its limits. It was an inherently political commodity working within a huge and often adversarial command structure and the world’s first intelligence interagency structure.  Nor were heavy bombers and their intelligence support war winners in any sense of the term. The tide had turned against Nazi Germany long before bombing reached the level of intensity, in 1943-1945, req