t must return to base after their missions, leaving targets attacked in enemy control. Consequently, there is only one way to determine whether anything approaching victory has been achieved: by using air intelligence assets to collect and analyze results. During the campaigns against Germany, these assets included reconnaissance aircraft, Ultra, lower-grade cipher intercepts, and ground sources, all of which often corroborated one another. Yet photos, signals intercepts, and ground sources never told the full story, and it was up to intelligence personnel to tell the rest of the story on the basis of expertise, experience, and intuition.  Inevitably, however, senior commanders had to make judgments about bombing’s efficacy as well as its potential to contribute to future successes. Consequently, intelligence often became captive to opposing groups of senior commanders who sought to win over their bosses to a preferred course of action. As will become evident, these debates began even before the start of the war in Europe and grew in intensity as key players like Air Marshal Arthur Harris sought to gain maximum support and assets for city bombing and others, such as Air Marshal Arthur Tedder and General Carl Spaatz, quarreled not only with Harris about the efficacy of city bombing, but with one another and other senior officers about the relative merits of the transportation and oil plans. Fortunately, the Allies had sufficient aircraft to execute all these plans, and senior political leaders were for the most part willing to let their airmen have the reins. Nonetheless, this constant quarreling and infighting had real costs and created serious friction within the Allied war effort.  Having said this, it was in the effort to increase friction throughout the enemy’s war effort that the air intelligence organizations built first by the British and later, with much British assistance, by the Americans paid their greatest dividends. Their skills increased rapidly as a r