ing of every major target system in the Reich and German- controlled Europe, including the French and German transportation systems and the German oil industry. The astonishing thing about this development is that the British carried it through before they had any kind of credible bomber force. Clearly, there was agreement among British civilian and military leaders that they would eventually have the bombers to attack these targets effectively, and this faith in future capabilities as yet barely glimpsed proved one of the few positive developments in an otherwise bleak landscape.  Responsibility for tracking the progress of all these efforts lay with the duty officer and duty clerk, and their administrative assistants, who logged in all requests for reconnaissance and all photographs received from the Photographic Development Unit (PDU; later the PRUs), distributed the photographs to appropriate sections for interpretation, and worked with the Despatch Section to ensure on-time delivery of all completed work. They also ensured all photos received from the PDU went first to the print library, where technicians filed all prints received, made cover plots on large- scale charts showings the entire area covered hv each sortie’s nhotas. and nrovided the nrints. mans. and renorts made hv the Intellisence Section to internal and external customers. A new and vital  Page 87 of 423 22%  I oe rather than sequentially, resulting in a huge increase in the unit’s efficiency. To increase efficiency even further, he introduced a standardized system he had perfected at HQ Bomber Command for annotating and labeling prints before dissemination and filing. Finally, he received permission to engage in a major public relations effort in which he and other PIU officers traveled to other commands and organizations and made them familiar with the broad and growing range of PIU services. This campaign proved highly successful, with Riddell reminding his audiences that the PIU maximized “th