ee’s lethargic engagement with two issues fundamental to British bombing: an advanced bombsight and a four-engine heavy bomber. The first of these received mention at the twelfth meeting on 6 November 1936, nearly three years after the formation of the committee, when representatives noted pending delivery of the Mark I automatic bombsight. As it turned out, this model functioned poorly. Consequently, no improved bombsight became operational for another five years. The second topic, development of a heavy bomber, surfaced during several meetings and was driven by a growing realization among airmen that light bombers had become obsolete. Even the capable Wellington twin-engine bomber, which was developed beginning in 1932 and saw service throughout the war, lacked the necessary range and bomb load required for a major bombing campaign. The effort to build a true heavy bomber received further impetus from the “F Scheme” for rearmament proposed by the Committee on Defence Policy and Requirements the same year.” This was a significant expansion scheme because it marked the beginning of Britain’s preparations to create a credible bomber force. This included plans for the Stirling, Halifax, and Manchester, which were drawn up in 1936-1937. The Manchester, although an operational failure with its under- powered engines, was later modified with four Merlins and transformed into the highly effective Lancaster.®  In fact, the “J Scheme” of October 1937 made heavy bombers a top RAF priority for the first time. However, as late as the seventeenth meeting of the Bombing Committee on 4 May 1938, discussions about the ideal bomber were still clouded by uncertainty about the aircraft’s capabilities and proper employment. Consequently, these vital initiatives—bombsight and bomber—bore fruit fairly late. The bombsight in service with the RAF since 1918 was not replaced by an improved version until 1941, the same year in which large numbers of the first heavy bomber, the Short Stirlin