he Nazis came to power, and it is to the period after January 1933 that we must now turn to see how this influenced the development of air intelligence-related technologies, techniques, technicians, and organizational innovations.  FIVE  THE PACE QUICKENS  Air Intelligence Developments in the Late Interwar Period, 1933-1941  RAF Rearmament: The Bombing Committee  The pace of air intelligence developments increased noticeably after 1933, although there was as yet little reemergence of the intelligence organizations that had surfaced briefly in 1917-1918. The rise of Nazi Germany, fascist Italy’s aggression in Abyssinia, and the involvement of Germany and Italy in the Spanish civil war drove the British and Americans toward an honest appraisal of their bombing capabilities and actions for improvement. Because the interwar period ended two years later for the Americans than for the British, this chapter reviews developments in the Army Air Corps (renamed the U.S. Army Air Forces in 1941) up to America’s entry into the war.  British and American airmen, taking their cue from political leaders, accelerated efforts to develop effective bombing capabilities. This was less difficult for the Americans given the firm doctrinal foundations laid during the early interwar period and the two superb technologies—the B-17 heavy bomber and Norden bombsight—emerging at this point. The war nonetheless caught both the Brit- ish and the Americans unprepared to engage in bombing operations.  In response to the growing German threat, British air rearmament began in earnest in 1934, but even then, twenty-two of the forty-one bomber squadrons called for in the expansion were to be composed of light bombers incapable of reaching German targets. Part of the rearmament effort was an Air Ministry decision in January 1934 to establish the Bombing and Air Fighting committees. The former’s purpose was to “achieve a better measure of coordination between the development of bombing methods and tacti