ck his fighting machines [fighter aircraft] to deal with the enemy’s; indirectly, by producing discontent and alarm among the industrial population. In other words, it aims at achieving both a material and a moral effect.2  Gorrell further stated that for strategic bombardment to have maximum effects, “visits must be constantly repeated, at short intervals .. . for it is this recurrent bombardment ... which interrupts industrial production and undermines the public confidence.”12  These ideas received wide circulation among airmen during the 1920s and 1930s, and they took hold with a tenacity difficult to overemphasize. What has been less noted is Gorrell’s primary focus on providing decisive assistance to armies. This idea that bombers should engage in operations of the greatest benefit to the advancing ground forces took root among interwar American airmen, even those such as airpower zealots Arnold and Spaatz, who never turned their backs on Gorrell’s idea that bombers could do a great deal in conjunction with ground forces. This had major implications for advocacy of target sets during World War II. Gorrell’s ideas reverberated throughout the interwar period, were inculcated in American airmen and included in bombing doctrine, and had key implica- tions for air intelligence.4  Gorrell’s influence became evident in the Air Service's first doctrinal manual on bombardment aviation. published in 1923 under direction of the Office of the Chief of Air Staff. Tt divided targets  Page 41 of 423 1%  artillery,” the lessons from which, he continued, “apply exactly to the aviation situation when we consider the questions of the aerial bombardments to be effected in the future.”® In a particularly pres- cient passage, Gorrell rhetorically asked,  What would happen if the artillery [in this case aircraft] were able to prolong and intensify its fire on the important objectives in that zone where occurs the ebb and tide of the extensive main- tenance and replenishment which no