s for aerial photos and to CIU K and N Sections for immediate and detailed interpretation reports.*1 These new procedures were put to the test during the largest city attacks yet: the thousand-plane raids of spring and summer 1942.  The first such raid, against Cologne on 30-31 May 1942, was a shock to the Germans and boosted British morale. Several tactical innovations made the bombing exceptionally accurate and concentrated, a fact illustrated by a large number of excellent night-strike and poststrike photographs as well as detailed CIU K Section reports and city damage mosaics and maps. First, Harris used his concept of a “bomber stream,” in which all bombers flew by a common route and at the same speed to and from the target. In addition, Gee and Pathfinder Force made it much easier for the bomber stream to locate and concentrate on the target. Where the previous year’s 100-plane raids had taken four hours and the 234 aircraft that attacked Liibeck two hours, the 1,000 bombers on the Cologne raid took only ninety minutes. Ultimately, this figure dropped to less than twenty minutes. Interpreters assessed over 5,400 buildings destroyed or severely damaged, including 36 large factories with a complete loss of production, 70 suffering a 50 to 80 percent loss for up to three months, and another 222 suffering up to a 50 percent loss. There was an important cautionary note as well: an MEW report noted that repairs proceeded much more quickly than expected.22  Also troubling was the fact that these impressive damage figures masked several serious damage-assessment deficiencies. First was incomplete knowledge of what exactly British bombs were destroying. For instance, although reports noted over 250 factories destroyed or damaged during this raid, intelligence personnel only knew what was being produced in 50 of them. It was also difficult to determine what photointerpreters called “invisible damage”: the machine tools and other equipment destroyed inside factory buildi