year. During the next two years, reconnaissance confirmed addition of further stalls. By summer 1944, Briix would have produced 1,250,000 tons of oil a vear. had homhers not rendered it inonerative in snring 1944 and kent nraduction verv low and intermittent until VF. Davi2  Page 248 of 423 59%  Bombing’s impact on synthetic fuel production. Once bombing of the Reich’s synthetic oil plants got into high gear in May 1944, results were immediate and increasingly catastrophic for German operational mobility and combat power. The same kinds of catastrophic effects occurred at Ploesti and all other conventional oil refineries. (Richard G. Davis, Carl A. Spaatz and the Air War in Europe /Washington, D.C.: Center for Air Force History, 1993], 506)  ACIU photointerpreters had studied the German oil industry intensely since 1940. Squadron Leader Hamshaw Thomas, in charge of D Section, led this effort. He visited oil plants in Britain to learn all he could from their managers. When reconnaissance aircraft brought back the first photographs of the new synthetic oil plant at Leuna in summer 1941, Thomas traced all the processes involved in production, consulted again with British experts, and put together a reliable system for estimating a synthetic oil plant’s maximum productive capacity. Coverage of Briix in the Sudetenland in early May 1942 confirmed a huge new synthetic oil plant under construction. Flight Lieutenant Peter Kent, an exceptionally capable oil geologist whom Hamshaw Thomas put in charge of interpreting oil plants, used this and subsequent coverage to collect crucial information on the German oil industry. Kent soon had six interpreters helping him, including two Americans. Together with other special- ists, Kent and his team engaged in detailed planning for the oil offensive.*  When that offensive began, Kent and his team guided bombers to the most important targets by helping the JOTC and later the CSTC Working Committee (Oil) build weekly target lists. Their