rcraft and oil targets. As the former received progressively less effort with the Battle of Britain winding down, the latter again took center stage.22 Although this first oil offensive will receive attention shortly, we must first return to improvements at the PDU and PIU, which continued their rapid development.  During January 1941, as the first oil offensive began, the PDU and PIU continued evolving. They also received their new titles: Photographic Reconnaissance Units (PRUs) and the Central Interpret- ation Unit (C1U). First-phase interpretation, previously completed at Wembley, was now moved to the three photoreconnaissance flights at Benson, Wick, and St. Eval to keep damage reports moving to the CIU quickly for second-phase interpretation. During this period, the drawing and modeling sections began using aerial photos to produce exceptionally accurate plans, drawings, and scale models of industrial and military installations. These allowed aircrews to improve recognition skills and photointerpreters to track cumulative damage on the diagrams. The CIU also fielded an Intelligence Liaison Section made up of veteran intelligence personnel from all three services, who gave their counterparts in the various work sections a variety of intelligence reports to help them analyze aerial photos and produce accurate damage assessments.  Perhaps most important, however, was the Instructional Section set up to train new photointerpreters in advanced interpretation before their assignment to CIU duty sections. Every new photointerpreter had to complete a rigorous three-month course, become thoroughly familiar with a ClU-developed photointerpretation handbook, and pass a demanding final exam. Instructors were seasoned photointerpreters, which meant students received training from experts in each area of interest, whether railroads and inland waterways or oil plants and refineries.2©  During this period, the CIU changed locations after a German bomb struck the facilities at