ermany’s cities lay in ruins, industry was prostrate, and its people were utterly demoralized. Most of all, however, its oil plants, trains, barges, and war indus- tries, and therefore its armies, had ground to a halt under the relentless hammering of bomber attacks.  These figures paint a stark picture of bombing’s material and human costs. In the decades since 1945, arguments among scholars still rage back and forth about bombing’s effectiveness and moral implications. However, as recent scholarship has engaged with new sources and used new methodologies, increasing numbers of historians have decided the effort, though brutal and costly, played an instrumental role in Allied victory. The emerging consensus is that bombing was a vital element of Allied strategy and was the only way to bring major military strength to bear before OVERLORD.  Page 334 of 423 79%  confusion, interfering with reinforcement of the Eastern Front, and confounding the German military and administrative machinery.+ This was the one instance when intelligence specialists made a clear recommendation, and in this case it was sound. The raids went forward, with the primary aim being to assist the Russian advance, but there was no association with THUNDERCLAP, which faded into obscurity after this last great debate.  CLARION proceeded on 22-23 February 1945 to destroy huge numbers of smaller transportation targets all over Germany, increasing the general level of chaos and bringing about a railroad work stoppage. Eisenhower had originally asked for the operation to support ground forces, and Spaatz was a proponent, but he cautioned Arnold that he no longer thought that a single air effort could win the war. This was a conclusion, given available intelligence, which he might just have easily made at any point over the preceding ten months. CLARION became nothing more than an attack on transportation, concentrated in time, with over 1,000 heavy bombers and thousands of smaller aircraft wreaking hav