s confirmed their importance and probably gave Spaatz leverage with Eisenhower as he sought approval of a major and sustained oil offensive.=  Davina a manatine an 12 Marr Canaval Wladimir Crandal tha Dad Aemee caniay intallicanan nfhinar amnhaociond that ail ure tha law tavaat Un onid tha Carmane had annuch enonlina ta 1100 matar  Page 257 of 423 61%  Gelsenkirchen synthetic oil plant, May 1945. This image shows the ruins of Gelsenkirchen at the end of the war. Virtually every element of the plant had sustained serious damage in the first British raid on 12-13 June 1944. Subse- quent policing efforts kept it almost entirely out of action. Long since abandoned, the smashed remnants of the plant appeared to postwar ground-survey teams like nothing more than giant spires and sprawling agglomerations of rusted steel. (NARA)  As we have seen with the transportation offensive, Harris deserves much of the credit for these capabilities. He oversaw the development of Pathfinder Force (8 Group) and his elite “precision” unit (5 Group) while championing the development and procurement of technologies required to make these successes possible. Although Harris viewed oil as another “panacea target,” he went after it, for the most part, with energy and a clear sense of duty, and in so doing, he contributed significantly to the offensive’s success.*2  Bombing in Support of the Red Army’s Advance  As the oil offensive got into high gear and Harris came onboard, a delegation of American officers visited their Soviet counterparts from 10 to 15 May to discuss how bombing could best support the Red Army’s advance. The Russians made one insistent request: attack Ploesti. The visit’s timing was significant, coming during the opening effort against synthetic oil plants and just over a month into the push against Ploesti. Russian emphasis on oil attacks confirmed their importance and probably gave Spaatz leverage with Eisenhower as he sought approval of a major and sustained oil offensive