ore fundamental observation—and a correct one—was that taking out any of an oil plant’s key elements would shut it down for weeks or months. This result would be feasible only if bombers concentrated on one plant until it was destroyed, then moved to the next one. Persistence was vital. Dewdney closed with three observations. First, he said, synthetic oil plants were the most vulnerable of all industrial targets and the most important to Germany’s war effort. Second, dispersion of German bombers into small formations during attacks on British targets showed the ineffectiveness of such an approach, meaning dispersion of British bombers into small packets (which, as we shall see, reached absurd levels during fall 1940) should stop immediately. Third, concerted attacks were crucial for bombing effectiveness. If Bomber Command followed his program, Dewdney said, it would deprive the Germans of 1 million tons of oil in the next six months.£2  Dewdney’s efforts, although insightful, suffered from errors in analysis, largely as a result of the absence of photoreconnaissance cover and other sources. He labored under much less propitious conditions for producing damage assessments than he and his successors did later. Dewdney also fell into the trap of assuming that bombers were navigating effectively to their targets and dropping bombs with an average error of 300 yards—a fantasy figure dramatically better than even the best aircrews achieved, on average, during the war’s final year. Dewdney’s estimates for bomb tonnage were also a fraction of what was ultimately required. Still, he had many useful insights, and he would bring them up again, later in the war, to much greater effect.  In the meantime, Bomber Command’s leaders made their aircraft as ineffective as possible by spreading them across multiple target sets in tiny numbers—often one or two bombers—even though their operational directive still made oil the number one priority. During the seventeen-day period between