would reduce production of explosives and propellants by perhaps 80 percent, leaving the Germans no option but to surrender as ammunition ran out. Tiverton’s ideas were remarkable not just because they seized, correctly, on the single greatest vulnerability in the German war machine, but also because they represented the first effort to view bombing in terms of target sets that could, if damaged sufficiently, collapse the enemy’s war effort. Tiverton’s related initiative to establish realistic bombardment training against white-chalk outlines with the same dimensions as the most im- portant nitrogen-fixation plants, in which crews would practice navigating to the target in day and night conditions, was another forward-looking idea.*2  Page 25 of 423 8%  Re ee eee ee ie ee ee ee eee er ee ee a ee ee et Se Te Whe Ch eee BS ee Sey ees Sh See OS res ee Pee eee eee  This guidance hints at two quintessentially Anglo-American qualities vital to air intelligence developments in both world wars. The first was a penchant for organizing, storing, analyzing, and disseminating intelligence systematically. The second was an affinity for technology to improve organizational effectiveness. The stereoscopic instrument is a humble example, but an important one for the development of photointerpretation. It allowed users to view photographs in three dimensions where there is a 60-degree overlap between frames. The British and Americans discovered this in 1918 and took full advantage of it to reveal secrets hidden in the shadows, light, and perspective that comprised aerial photos.  Despite intelligence organizational evolution in the Air Service, problems hampered the tasking of intelligence collection platforms as well as the reporting and dissemination of damage assess- ments. For instance, every branch of the army had its own photo sections at unit and headquarters level, all of which received tasking in isolation, resulting in duplication of effort. The huge number of photos comin