ividual assessments for the most important factories. Domestic damage, including estimated numbers of civilians killed, wounded, and dehoused, was also included in the dossiers, as were graphs showing the drop in output of various types of industry and estimated recovery rates. A so-called strategical index showed the town’s assessed value based on a key point rating expressed as a fraction of Germany’s assessed total war effort. This included a running tally of the drop in the town’s value due to attacks and its subsequent rise as repair efforts progressed. This strategical index thus comprised the heart of the damage dossiers. There was also an assessment of the enemy’s expenditure of military resources in defense of the target, including aircraft and flak wastage and use rates, and ammunition and fuel consumption. Finally, there was an assessment of “imponderables,” including morale.©!  Key players in this effort decided to divide the workload and share data to maximize the effectiveness of the damage dossiers. As a launching point for this effort, Dewdney used the first detailed RE8 damage assessment, produced for two attacks on Diisseldorf in August-September 1942, to discuss his ideas about the ideal methodology for producing damage dossiers. He noted the RE8 process used for this assessment allowed analysts to determine that 19 percent of bombs dropped fell within built-up areas of Diisseldorf and that the direct economic effects of the attack equaled about 4 percent of one day’s total war production for Germany. The report also noted that the city reached normal output again by mid-October. Per ton of bombs dropped, incendiaries did three times more damage than high explosives. Finally, Dewdney noted the report was based on reconnaissance cover including 100 percent of the city’s residential areas, 64 percent of its industries, and 76 percent of its marshaling yards.®  Dewdney next explained the process RE8 had developed to produce this assessment, which inc