rkers, and hence greater friction at all points in the transportation effort. Reconnaissance coverage allowed the Allies to see when trains were forming up, when units they were transporting arrived, and when the optimum time for attack—as trains were loading—had arrived 12%  The critical locomotive shortage forced the Germans to bring 200 engines from the east, where they were sorely missed during the Russian summer offensive. Even more serious was the impact of  the railroad crisis on units in southern and southwestern France once Operation DRAGOON (ANVIL) threatened to cut off German troops.122  Extended Operational Impacts: Southern France  Just before DRAGOON, Eaker, commanding 15th Air Force, cabled Spaatz a list of twelve bridges that had to be knocked out to achieve complete railroad interdiction before the landings. These were promptly dropped.1*° The end result for German units of the 19th Army in southeastern France was a disaster. They quickly ran out of fuel and had no rail transportation, so they were thus forced to flee, for the most part on foot. A few had motorized vehicles, but these came under fighter-bomber attack and were destroyed or ran out of fuel and had to be abandoned.  The magnitude of the disaster was conveyed by a POW who had served as a private in a German artillery unit. On the road from Nimes to Belfort, he said,  burned-up military trucks could be seen constantly at intervals from 50 to 100 meters. Most of them were supply trucks which had been loaded with gasoline, oil, munitions, and food. It was remarkable to note that just these trucks loaded with gas and oil were most commonly recognized, attacked, and destroyed. ... Along the entire route of our unit, the damage done by American planes was terrific. Thousands of trucks, hundreds of horses and wagons were destroyed. Several motorized units lost all their vehicles in a few minutes and had to take horses and wagons from the French in order to proceed further.14+  To stay ahead of