tal’s letter, he offered his resignation and attacked Portal for trying to run the bombing effort directly from the air staff. He said he did not intend to use “panacea” as a contemptuous term, but rather as the only fully descriptive one available. Regarding oil—the greatest panacea—and fuel requirements, Harris said the enemy needed very little “for the essentials with which to continue the fight defensively. .. . It is no good knocking out 75% of something if 25% suffices for essentials.”172 The problem with oil targets, Harris added, was that new ones were appearing on bombing lists faster than old ones were being destroyed. It would be dangerous, he said, “should we abandon area attack, which has created vast destruction, in favour of a type of attack which if it fails to achieve its object achieves nothing. Nothing whatever.”12  From there, Harris sought to deliver an argumentative coup de grace to the oil plan:  The oil plan pursued in 1940 was grotesquely unrelatable to facts or to practical possibilities. As to this second edition, it is another attempt to seek a quick, clever, easy and cheap way out. It will prove to be none of these things. ... We pursue a chimera and we will not overtake it. The oil policy will not succeed. If it fails, the enormous force diverted will achieve virtually nothing. It is for such reasons that I am glad to have no share of responsibility for a decision which I am convinced is utterly wrong. Those are my views on oil.174  He closed with a claim that Portal had accused him of disloyalty and failure to carry out policies in the bombing directives. Rejecting this, Harris admitted he had no faith in the oil offensive and had voiced opposition, but had then put every possible effort into it. Viewed in this light, he said, the entire affair had simply become one of “heads I lose tails you win, and it is an intolerable situation. I therefore ask you to consider whether it is best for the prosecution of the war and the success of our