eekly target lists. In a memo to Spaatz, Bottomley set forth his vision:  I feel that one of the first things we must put on a sound footing is the advice we get as to target priorities in the various systems of strategic objectives. For this purpose, I suggest that we consti- tute at once a Strategic Objectives Target Committee, whose function will be to advise us jointly on this matter, and to be responsible for the compilation of the target list dealing with strategic objectives which are periodically updated. ... The Main Committee could regulate the activities of the various joint sub committees and working committees dealing with Oil, Transportation, and the G.A.F. In this way, the whole system of examination of strategical target systems and strategical target priorities could be properly managed.+4  Spaatz agreed, and in late October the Combined Strategic Targets Committee (CSTC) was up and running.  The CSTC was as small as possible to allow for rapid decision making, but also flexible enough to allow for visiting experts to provide insights. The CSTC had representatives from the Air Ministry’s Directorate of Bomber Operations (including Bufton, the British cochair), Bomber Intelligence Directorate, and Operations Directorate; the USSTAF Operations Directorate (including Maxwell, the  Page 271 of 423 64%  AS Ol attacks Teached new levels OF ifiternsity, the Aled Oxpeditionary Air rorce was deactivated OM 15 oepteinber. Control OF heavy Dbormvbers reverted from Hisennower to rortal and AMOI, WilO delegated executive authority to Air Marshal Norman Bottomley, the RAF’s deputy chief of air staff, and Spaatz. The Tactical Air Forces, although not subject to this realignment, continued making major contributions to the oil offensive with attacks on smaller refineries, benzol plants, and depots. The Combined Bomber Offensive mission statement now read: “The overall mission of the Strategic Air Forces is the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German m