to continue the fight defensively. .. . It is no good knocking out 75% of something if 25% suffices for essentials.”122 The problem with oil targets, Harris added, was that new ones were appearing  Page 283 of 423 67%  ee es A ee a ae See EE ee ee ee re re eee aay S Sane Se Se ay See ae ee RF ee ey ee SS Se Fa eS en, Ne SS Se ae Se ee SASS SS ee ee Sa eee and to the best of my ability.”1%4 Harris also said his staff was in full support of the effort and simply followed orders—a statement implying either an entirely autocratic approach, one that stifled de- bate, or both. The implications for free exchange of intelligence are clear.  A third time, Portal asked for Bufton’s insights. Bufton produced another draft letter, which went to Harris nearly unaltered. Bufton said Bomber Command had done well in some attacks, but the results probably convinced Harris he was doing everything he could when in fact he was not.1® He also responded strongly to Harris’s scathing attack on MEW, in which Harris said he had “no faith in the M.E.W. because of their past record (their amateurish ignorance, irresponsibility and mendacity).”1°° Bufton defended MEW, saying they did not select targets but were instead only advisors, and their insights had been accurate. He also reminded Portal of the many intelligence agencies involved in putting together an exceptionally accurate appraisal of the German oil position, one upon which Allied leaders, beginning with Spaatz, ultimately acted. Bufton reminded Portal that the oil offensive’s effectiveness received constant and overwhelming proof from a nonstop flow of irrefutable intel- ligence. The Germans were scrambling to repair remaining plants and otherwise salvage an increasingly hopeless effort.  Harris’s statement about city bombing was equally misguided: “All Germany openly bemoans it as their worst trial. We know that on more than one occasion they have nearly collapsed under it. As the programme nears completion we chuck it all up—for a