il and road networks. Note the relative density of both, given the peninsula’s narrow and difficult geography. (Eduard Mark, Aerial Interdiction in Three Wars /Washington, D.C.: Center for Air Force History, 1994], 92)  Zuckerman’s association with Signor Caliendo, chief engineer of the Italian Ministry of Communications, also yielded insights for planning transportation attacks in France. Caliendo said that “the heavy bombardment of important railway targets has a more consistent and lasting effect” than attacks on rail lines. Destruction of locomotive repair shops, signaling and switching apparatus, roundhouses, and communications equipment at rail centers had a major and long-term impact. Caliendo said the 18 April 1943 raid on Palermo’s marshaling yards caused severe damage, as had the 19 July 1943 and 7 March 1944 attacks on Rome’s. Through lines were repaired in days, but marshaling operations were seriously disrupted, leading to long delays in train assembly and movement. He suggested that concerted attacks followed by frequent reconnaissance would allow the Allies to assess damage, track the progress of repairs, and schedule repeat attacks. These ideas proved prescient.24  What Zuckerman and Tedder glimpsed in these reports, interrogations, and discussions was a vision of attacks on marshaling yards in advance of and after OVERLORD pushing railheads back, forcing the Germans to demotorize their divisions and use their trucks for logistics rather than maneuver. The strain on their trucks and the huge quantities of gasoline they used during these supply runs would lead to serious truck and fuel shortages. High loss rates for trucks driven at night, over bad roads, and attacked by night bombers would increase truck and supply shortages; accidents and air attacks often destroyed cargo along with the trucks. The German army’s combat power would thus be compromised by constant and severe supply shortages. The Germans in Italy had been fortunate to defend a mountai