all-bearings,” he added, “I have little doubt that the full effects forecast by the M.E.W. would have been achieved.”11 Portal then tried to soften his message, saying he was pleased Harris had recently shown more initiative regarding oil attacks.  Harris fired back on 28 December. “I am afraid,” he said, “that nothing will disillusion me of the view that the oil plan is . .. another panacea.”162 He did “not believe we shall achieve our object in the oil plan.”13 Harris also told Portal he would give the oil offensive top priority. He had, Harris admitted, done everything to make his views clear, but once he had an order he “carried it out to the utmost and to the best of my ability.”1® Harris also said his staff was in full support of the effort and simply followed orders—a statement implying either an entirely autocratic approach, one that stifled de- bate, or both. The implications for free exchange of intelligence are clear.  A third time, Portal asked for Bufton’s insights. Bufton produced another draft letter, which went to Harris nearly unaltered. Bufton said Bomber Command had done well in some attacks, but the  Page 282 of 423 67%  in which the latter blamed MEW—the ultimate panacea-monger agency in Harris’s view—for foisting another useless target set on his command. MEW’s warning in a recent assessment that “nothing less than the maximum possible effort of the Allied bomber forces is likely to prove adequate to the task in the difficult conditions of winter” was the kind of statement Harris absolutely despised.1*4 In fact, Harris had argued that MEW  always overstated their case, and no sooner have the identified targets been attacked than more and more sources of supply or other factors unpredicted by MEW have become revealed. The oil plan has already displayed similar symptoms. The benzol plants were an afterthought. I am quite certain that there are dozens more benzol plants of which we are unaware and when and if we knock them all out I am equally cer