capacity. Spaatz said transportation attacks would not affect the course of the initial battle but oil attacks would; that transportation raids would not bring out the Luftwaffe, but that “they will defend oil to their last fighter plane”; and that oil attacks would weaken the Wehrmacht on all fronts simultaneously. To drive home his point, Spaatz included Wehrmacht Basic Order No. 24, dated 13 December 1943 as an appendix to his proposal:  Motor fuel is a means of movement. At a decisive hour, we will not be able to move either our tanks or our fast units if there is no motor fuel. The motor fuel situation is serious. In 1944, it may become still more serious. Restrictions have to be imposed in January. It is impossible to give more than there is. A crisis with motor fuel, such as we have experienced with the light field how- itzer ammunition, must be avoided in time. The Order of the Hour for motor fuel, therefore, is: ECONOMIZE NOW WHENEVER POSSIBLE.2®  The view that oil attacks would erode and then undermine the Wehrmacht’s combat power was accurate. Spaatz also emphasized that the Joint Intelligence Subcommittee (JIC), Ministry of Economic Warfare (MEW), and Air Commodore Bufton had all recommended against the Tedder-Zuckerman plan.22  Spaatz was mistaken, however, in asserting that transportation attacks would fail in France, even if their effectiveness had proved limited in Italy. His criticisms of the transportation plan implied that anything short of a complete collapse of enemy resistance equated to failure. He missed the point that such attacks, even if not capable of producing decisive results on their own, would cause widespread friction and degrade the enemy’s fighting ability. He also erred in stating that the enemy had “a large surplus beyond his military requirements” of marshaling yards, locomotives, and railcars.2® This was a result of EOU intelligence regarding transportation targets, which was flawed. EOU estimated that 8 percent of rail traffic