he greatest possible delay in repairs. This meant 500-pound bombs with instantaneous tail fusing or a 0.01- second delay, incendiaries to ignite fires, and delay-fused bombs to keep repair crews at bay. Third, achieve surprise and catch plants up and running to maximize damage. Fourth, depending on the strength of enemy defenses, put larger bomber formations and longer bomber streams over the target to exhaust smoke screens and make bombing more accurate. Fifth, the team said a “continuity of offensive [operations] is essential.”28 This meant oil campaigns had to be pressed home over a period of months with heavy attacks. Airmen changed their tactics and weapons accordingly.  The Oil Offensive Comes to the Reich  In addition to the Ploesti raids, MAAF went after forty-six crude oil refineries and five synthetic oil plants in southern Germany, Austria, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and Poland.?2 The Mediterranean Oil Targets Intelligence Committee provided target recommendations for these installations to the JOTC and later the CSTC Working Committee (Oil) in advance of their weekly meetings so they could de- termine attack priorities for all oil targets.42 These included synthetic oil plants in the Ruhr and central Germany, which came under heavy attack on 12 May 1944.  The first major raids on synthetic oil plants in the Reich were made by 886 8th Air Force heavy bombers against Leuna, Liitzkendorf, Zeitz, Bohlen, and Briix as well as the Zwickau aircraft components plant. The crews conducted visual attacks, dropping 1,718 tons of bombs. Photointerpreters determined from strike photos that results were very good at Briix, where bombs seriously damaged the gas-generating plant, boiler house, oil-storage tanks, and gas-purification plant. Bohlen also suffered heavily, with several hits on the gas-generating plant and refinery, boiler house, condensing tower, and power plant. Zeitz sustained at least twelve hits on the gas-generating plant, three on the purification and co