y along a radio beam and, when over the target, to drop their weapons within 300 yards of the aim point. Another advantage was the ability to mark targets accurately during no-moon and bad-weather periods. Oboe’s major shortcoming was its line-of-sight restriction, which was not a problem for attacks on the Ruhr but a serious one for attacks on targets in central and eastern Germany, all of which were beyond its range. Nonetheless, Oboe brought a major increase in accuracy. In fact, during the ten months from March through December 1943, Bomber Command raids caused ten times the level of destruction as all the raids flown in the preceding forty-five months of the war.42  The opening raid of the campaign, against Essen on 5-6 March, confirmed the value of Oboe. Five Oboe-equipped Mosquitoes of the Pathfinder Force marked Essen’s city center accurately through heavy haze. Then, 442 bombers dropped their bombs directly on target. Poststrike reconnaissance photos showed that 160 acres of the city center were destroyed and fiftythree separate buildings within the huge Krupps factory complex were destroyed or damaged. German reports later confirmed British estimates that over 3,000 houses were destroyed and 2,166 severely damaged. Nearly 500 people were killed. A follow-up raid on 12-13 March caused even greater damage to Krupps and destroyed another 500 houses. A third raid on 3-4 April caused further damage. A Research and Experiments Department Eight (RE8) assessment of the effects of these raids on the Krupps works noted that 114 tons of bombs fell on the Krupps complex, a total of 75 tons per square mile. Nearly 25 percent of buildings in the complex were damaged, causing delays of up to 32 weeks for several industrial processes as repairs progressed. Analysts at RE8 estimated that Krupps lost three months’ production. They also observed that repairs were much slower than anticipated, which was puzzling given the excellence of German repair work. What the analysts mi