ond by Spaatz; the third by the Enemy Objectives Unit (EOU) with Spaatz’s tacit support; and the fourth by Harris.® Tedder, as Eisenhower’s deputy supreme commander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces, favored a concerted attack on railroads in France and Belgium, with emphasis on key marshaling yards, to isolate German troops in the battle area from supplies and reinforcements. Spaatz favored an attack on oil production. In this way, he said, the Germans would be deprived of tactical mobility on all the fighting fronts as fuel supplies dried up. His EOU advisors advocated an associated effort against bridges along the Seine and Loire rivers. These attacks would isolate German forces from sources of supply and reinforcement. Finally, Harris proposed continued attacks on German cities as the only effective means for impeding the enemy’s response to the landings.  Eisenhower, who exercised operational control over the heavy bombers from April to September 1944, chose Tedder’s plan at a tense meeting of senior leaders on 25 March 1944. But he also gave Spaatz quiet permission to go after oil, and the EOU bridge plan was also eventually implemented. In effect, then, the Allies, who by this time had enough aircraft to pull it off, executed three of the  bavie alana Leet thn nnn lan din tn thin Arita nen cern steers eb thn vera alen wn anein nd Ler Geen me nnthn Af fava nines dabntn Thea eh fall ineninnnnn 12044 nennnedes 2nd Pen e nn ee Laven d thn wetne  Page 182 of 423 45%  as et ee ee ee a a oe ee, a oe ee ee ee eS So a ee Se inadequately trained pilots, who were compelled to engage the Americans in a losing effort to protect their sources of supply. During forty-seven major attacks by 5,166 heavy bomber sorties against the German aircraft industry from January through March 1944, USAAF aircraft inflicted such severe losses on the Luftwaffe that it never again posed a major threat to Allied operations. This all-out effort, based on General Hap Arnold’s orders to “destr