aper emphasized that destruction of repair facilities was essential to reducing locomotive serviceability. The requirement for maintenance, which occurred at marshaling yards, meant nearly 40 percent of locomotives would be there at any given time and thus liable to destruction. Where there were locomotives, there was also rolling stock. Finally, rail centers housed signaling systems, track-crossing controls, and through lines vital to efficient operations. Destruction of these items at adjacent rail centers would make movement in an entire region nearly impossible.22  Equally important, the Germans could not return many of the 4,260 locomotives and 140,000 wagons looted from France because they were used in the Reich or the east.42 In addition, not only was there no spare track in France, but the Germans had already removed several hundred miles of tracks and crossings for use in Russia, meaning that every foot of track destroyed would require a sacrifice from some other part of the network. Finally, coal shortages and the lack of heavy equipment—especially cranes capable of lifting locomotives, of which there were perhaps twenty in France—would be exacerbated by attacks on marshaling yards, as would the shortage of skilled railway workers, many of whom would become casualties, would absent themselves, or would join the Maquis. There- fore, the report noted,  Every succeeding attack would add to the difficulty of effecting repairs. Disorganisation and stagnation would be cumulative, and before the full programme of attacks .. . was completed, the enemv’s repair organization would be completelv overwhelmed. The Railwav Research Service are confident that repairs within anv veriod of tactical relevance would then be impossible. and  Page 192 of 423 47%  isolating German units in Normandy. they nad a iong 1eg Up on the competition because they began planning the transportation campaign four montns derore competitors even began WOrking on their proposals. The fact that