portation as secondary, but there is equally clear evidence CSTC representatives arrived at these con- clusions on the basis of the dramatic impact of the oil offensive. Allied ground commanders wanted concerted heavy-bomber raids against marshaling yards supporting German military operations. This diverted a large proportion of available sorties from economic-strategic attacks on coal shipments and war production to tactical-operational sorties in support of ground forces. Ironically, while SHAEF G-2 (Intelligence) called for attacks on coal shipments to undermine the German war economy, SHAEF G-3 (Operations) demanded frequent attacks in support of the ground advance. Finally, senior airmen, Spaatz and Bottomley included, were seeing Ultra messages relating to oil and transportation attacks, which the special security officers on their staffs flagged as worthy of review. Had Spaatz or Bottomley thought that something was amiss in the CSTC or that its targeting recommendations were flawed, they would have addressed the problem. In fact, they ordered a detailed review in February 1945 of Ultra intercepts relating to the transportation offensive to reevaluate air strategy in the wake of the Ardennes offensive and to determine how best to employ heavy bombers during spring 1945. On the basis of their findings, they chose to make no changes to the Allied bombing directive then in force (Directive No. 3, promulgated on 20 January 1945), which gave oil targets top priority.21 Thus, we must approach infighting and the role of Ultra during the final transportation offensive against the Reich with care.  Page 301 of 423 71%  The bridges at Cologne, one day before VE Day. The Hohenzollern and Deutz bridges lay in the Rhine River. The Rodenkirchen bridge, just around the bend of the river, was also down. The famous cathedral remained standing. Once bridges dropped into Germany’s major rivers, as they did on several occasions beginning in late 1944, barge traffic came to a nea