in 1,000 feet; in bad weather, it was 26 percent within 1,000 feet. Of twentytwo bridges attacked, seven received hits. It thus took an average of 101 bombers dropping 270 tons of bombs for each hit. This was a major improvement over the same period in 1943, when it took an average of 190 bombers to produce one hit. The report’s key recommendation to improve accuracy was to bomb on as many independent sightings as possible from three-ship formations instead of the six- or nine-aircraft frontage in combat box formations. This represented an exception to LeMay’s lead-bombardier technique. Bridges had recognizable aim points that allowed even inexperienced bombardiers to lay the Norden bombsight’s crosshairs on target. Nonetheless, heavy bombers proved to be the wrong platform for bridge attacks (more than 100 sorties per successful bridge attack was not exactly impres- sive). That role quickly passed to fighter-bombers and “mediums” during the campaign in France, with the “heavies” focusing on larger targets they could reliably hit.  Eisenhower’s decision to adopt the Tedder-Zuckerman plan, but also allow Spaatz to go after oil targets, and AEAF Commander Air Marshal Trafford Leigh-Mallory’s Tactical Air Force commanders to attack road and rail bridges, proved wise.2 It brought an unanticipated but vital synergy in which attacks on these target sets resulted in an insurmountable series of logistical and operational crises for the Wehrmacht. However, the fact that senior leaders, supported by their intelligence chiefs, squabbled for five months over which one plan was best, rather than grasping their complementary effects, was one of the war’s great command and intelligence failures.  Tedder, Zuckerman, and the Transportation Plan  Even before these arguments began, Tedder and Zuckerman had sent their insights from Italy to the Transportation Intelligence Committee (TIC), to assist with discussion of the best means for  Page 191 of 423 47%  In contrast to their British