gs at these plants. Major Beeson of SHAEF also emphasized the importance of continuing attacks on depots.12°  Bufton also said the CSTC had to show airmen and Eisenhower two things: the effects of continued oil attacks and effects on the ground advance of any major diversion of heavy-bomber effort to transportation targets. These assertions related to Eisenhower’s request for a plan to attack the Rhine-Ruhr transportation network, almost certainly at Tedder’s request, in an effort to break through and force a German surrender by the end of 1944. The CSTC concluded that if the Allies had any hope of helping achieve this objective, continued oil attacks offered the only chance.124 When Bottomley and Spaatz added their weight, Eisenhower relented, although a smaller version of the Rhine-Ruhr transportation campaign proceeded. Bufton and Maxwell also forestalled a second effort in Novemher ta divert homhers fram oil targets. notins. “From the strategic asnect the sreatest contribution which the stratesic homher forces can make to the defeat of the German armies in the west  Page 274 of 423 65%  Bad Weather and Bomber Diversions  Bufton and Maxwell were tireless advocates for oil, and their energy paid dividends, particularly as summer turned to fall and opportunities for visual bombing decreased. The CSTC’s first weekly bulletin, which picked up where JOTC bulletins ended, was sobering. The only oil attacks during the previous week had been by MAAF bombers; bad weather had kept 8th Air Force and Bomber Command grounded. Quantity and quality of postraid reconnaissance photos were poor owing to bad weather, meaning there were eight synthetic oil plants whose operational status was in doubt as a result of the absence of damage assessments. These problems pointed to a major resurgence in oil production, from 319,600 (23.5 percent of preattack capacity) in September to an estimated 503,000 tons (37.5 percent of preattack) in October and 641,000 tons (47.5 percent of preattac