ed photo interpretation by target categories, and a centralized reconnaissance collection management function to satisfy all requests from military and civilian intelligence organizations. These all be- came hallmarks of the Photographic Intelligence Unit (PIU), later renamed the CIU.  These two intertwined assets—PRU and PlU—emerged in early 1940. In combination with the maturation of air and economic intelligence organizations, they marked the reemergence of an air intelligence organization much more capable than its predecessor in the Great War.  In the meantime, however, there was much work to do. RAF Blenheim and Lysander reconnaissance aircraft were woefully inadequate and vulnerable to fighters, and the Air Ministry had a grand total of one trained photointerpreter. Equally problematic was the practice of requiring intelligence officers at bomber units to interpret strike photos without formal training—a serious problem as the RAF equipped increasing numbers of bombers with cameras. This shortage of trained photointerpreters stemmed from the interwar practice of training only army officers and attaching them to RAF units. Thus, although the RAF School of Interpretation at Farnborough opened in 1922, the army provided all its instructors and pupils until 1938. When the Air Ministry saw the need for more photointerpreters in March 1938 and founded a section, A.I.1(h), to address this requirement, RAF officers began training at Farnborough. When war broke out, there were six trained officers at HQ Bomber Command and a few more assigned to bomber units.“4  There were also promising developments with aircraft and cameras. Harry Stringer, the foremost British authority on aerial cameras and a pioneer along with F. C. V. Laws, was already experiment- ing with camera mountings in the fuselage and wings of a crashed Spitfire when Cotton approached him in fall 1939 to ask for assistance outfitting his first two Spitfires. As a result of Stringer’s efforts, the first op