maged industrial and military facilities.**  Despite tight security during Cabell’s visits, the degree of trust became clear when Wing Commander Hemming sent him a detailed paper, entitled “Organisation of the Central Interpretation Unit,” about a month after his visit. It provided key insights on CIU operations. Among these were what Hemming called the “Three Basic Principles of Photointerpretation.” First, “The success of an Interpretation Unit is based upon the efficiency of its training section.” Accordingly, the CIU conducted all photointerpreter training in house, with new graduates apprenticing in their operational cap- acities under the tutelage of experienced interpreters until they were deemed ready to conduct detailed interpretation on their own.  Second, “As many opinions as time allows must be obtained on areas covered.” Pairs of interpreters therefore cross-checked one another, then discussed their work with their duty interpretation officer (the senior interpreter on shift), who also checked it for analytical rigor. For second-phase reports, photointerpreters also sought expert guidance from civilian or military analysts at MEW, RE8, specialized government intelligence offices such as the Railroad Research Service, or civilian contacts such as industrial or oil experts, many of whom had designed, built, managed, or visited various facilities in Germany or German-occupied Europe. In turn, these MEW and RE8 analysts coordinated their work closely with photointerpreters at the CIU.  Third, “All comparison photographs and information of all kinds must be available for the interpreter so that he can compare the detail he obtains from any one sortie with that information obtained of the same area from all sources.” This was what intelligence personnel now call change detection. By looking at the same installation over a period of months, interpreters detected minute changes, some of which pointed to developments of great significance.  Page 78 of 423 21%  “