eir preponderance of motorized equipment [and fuel] were thus able to outman- euver the Germans.”5©  In fact, by late May, attacks on Ploesti and German oil plants were already having an impact on German military operations and training. The German army had now joined the Luftwaffe and the Kriegsmarine in a steadily diminishing fuel-quota system. Fuel shortages already hampered the training of German divisions in the west. If air attacks on oil plants and refineries continued, and ifa three-front Allied offensive began in the summer, “Within two to three months, depending on the circumstances, military supplies would have to be cut to an extent that would cause a most serious contraction in operational mobility. ... The position now is more vulnerable than at any previous time.”=2 In anticipation of these effects, the Chiefs of Staff ordered the JIC to produce progress reports for the oil offensive every two weeks.*8 By early July, the Germans had tapped their strategic reserves on all fronts and began experiencing severe distribution problems. To deal with this, Oberkom- mando der Wehrmacht cut fuel quotas by 20 percent for all three services. Continuing oil attacks and combat on three fronts were depleting supplies so rapidly they would likely fall 35 percent short of the minimum needed to supply all combat divisions with adequate fuel.*2  Assessing Results  To track these effects, the Allies established the Joint Anglo-American Oil Targets Committee and its working-level JOTC to keep the German oil position under constant review, assess bombing effectiveness, and determine target priorities. This body served the same purpose as the Railway Targets Committee during the transportation offensive in support of OVERLORD. It included the Allies’ foremost oil experts, who had access to all damage assessments. Their weekly reports had a standardized structure, including a review of the previous week’s attacks; overall effects on German production; current developments, i