erial reconnaissance of one another's territory, and the lack of an aircraft capable of flying covert, long-distance missions over Germany. The Air Ministry’s answer was to defer to SIS (MI6), which acquired intelligence by means of espionage. Wing Commander F. W. Winterbotham, commander of SIS Air Section, established a new unit, SIS Flight, in November 1938. To lead it, he hired an enterprising Australian named Sidney Cotton, whose work had a major influence on the development of photoreconnaissance and photointerpretation and, by extension, effective damage-assessment capabilities. Cotton, a Royal Naval Air Service flying officer from the Great War and a highly successful pilot and entrepreneur, agreed in fall 1938 to set up a front company, the Aeronautical Research and Sales Corporation. Winterbotham and Cotton, working with the French Deuxiéme Bureau de lArmée de l’Air, purchased four Lockheed 12A aircraft, which provided superb service from April to September 1939.  Cotton then set up shop as a respectable aircraft salesman in an office in France, and in March 1939, he began flying clandestine photoreconnaissance missions over Germany as he traveled to and from meetings with aircraft executives. Cotton’s choice of the Lockheed 12A, and the high-quality cameras and lenses he placed in both the fuselage and wings, were based on his realization that photoreconnaissance, whether clandestine or overt, required high-altitude, high-speed, long-range, and low-observable aircraft with fully automated cameras. He painted his aircraft a pale green to make them virtually invisible to the naked eye and installed extra fuel tanks, extending their range from 700 to 1,600 nautical miles. During spring and summer 1939, Cotton and his copilots made seven flights across Germany, returning each time with a huge number of excellent photographs of industrial facilities, oil plants and refineries, airfields, ports, and other key targets. Cotton had installed three cameras in the fu