high in accounting for the decrease in fighter—and other—production in later 1943.... People continued to do their duty in a fatalistic and apathetic mood, and this did not increase their devotion to the political cause and to productivity.4®  The official historians of Bomber Command operations agreed with this analysis, perhaps unwittingly. They noted that productivity at industries in Solingen suffered heavily and for several months because even though the city was not attacked directly, many of the workers in its plants resided in Wuppertal and Remscheid, both of which were devastated by Bomber Command raids. This is only one instance they mention of the phenomenon (absenteeism as a result of refugee movements and the death or injury of workers), but Boog makes clear that it was widespread and costly.*2  Bomber Command aerial mining missions in the Baltic also led to major German shipping losses (and the vital high-grade Swedish iron ore they carried) and delayed sea trials of new U-boats such as the Mark XXI. These new boats could not have turned the tide, but they would have caused much greater shipping losses. Instead of getting twenty or more Type XXIs operational by 1945, the Germans managed only one. Ultra confirmed these delays. Harris pushed hard for these mine-laying missions while he was deputy director of plans at the air staff in 1939. His efforts paid off. By April 1940, Hampden bombers were deploying magnetic mines—an operation that grew dramatically in scale, sophistication, and effectiveness when Harris took charge at Bomber Command. By VE Day, Bomber Command had deployed 47,000 aerial mines and engaged in other raids that sank 717 merchant vessels and damaged another 665. This effort extended to the Danube River, where Bomber Command 205 Group's efforts virtually shut down Rumanian oil and agricultural deliveries to the Reich in summer 1944. Together with the USAAF, Bomber Command also destroyed 111 U-boats in production and another 54 already d