roups received about 5 tons (1,200 gallons) per day instead of the standard 30 tons (7,200 gallons).122 These paltry allotments were adequate only to maintain a static front.  At the end of October, Goring issued another order for further drastic curtailment of all flying operations. Fighter operations were allowed only when contact with the enemy was likely. The same day, cryptographers intercepted a message stating that Luftgaue in western Germany were now using oxen to tow aircraft and heavy equipment.#22 By November, numerous aircraft units were sending messages saying they were out of fuel. In fact, there were twelve separate intercepts dealing with this problem.#4 Luftflotte 4 on the South Russian Front said operations would occur only when success was certain or the occasion critical.122  As Ultra recorded these calamities, it also became clear USAAF raids were incapable of doing the same damage to oil plants as Bomber Command attacks. In addition to carrying much heavier bomb  TandAce DAT hambare nauld vale: an cari anniuvata tarcat marlinea hea ataran Dathfindar Darna With urintar an tha urarrand tha laren Dareisie nlante in anctarn Carman and anuthurmotarn Daland naming  Page 274 of 423 65%  them. Still, they had Bottomley’s and Spaatz’s support. Ina memo to Eaker noting that an updated bombing directive was on the way, Spaatz said, “not only should oil continue on first priority, but that attacks against the German petroleum production, distribution, and supply points should be intensified by every means available by all Air Forces. ... New ways must be found to destroy oil wherever it can be found. Our studies have shown that for every ton of bombs dropped by the Strategic Air Forces the Germans are denied 61 tons of oil.”112  Nonetheless, the CSTC had to contend with adverse weather and the addition of benzol plants to the target list. At the first CSTC meeting, Mr. Lawrence of MEW introduced the Working Committee (Oil) report, noting the Ruhr’s synthet