for Brit- ish policy makers to receive aerial photographs of Italian military installations in those areas.  Page 54 of 423 14%  confronted with the vital role of the RAF’s Spitfire and Mosquito, and by then, it was too late. Consequently, they used converted P-38 fighters (renamed the F-5). These lacked the combat ceilings of the Spitfire and Mosquito and were therefore vulnerable, resulting in more lost aircraft and pilots.*4 Fortunately, the same was not true of the British effort to develop photoreconnaissance aircraft and cameras. Much of the credit for these, which proved vital to the development of air intelligence during World War II, belonged to F. C. V. Laws.  eee es ee Cee ae  Laws’s Contributions  The so-called father of RAF photography got his start early in the Great War. In 1915, as a sergeant major, Laws recommended to his superior, then-Wing Commander Trenchard, commander of First Wing, that the wing’s new experimental photographic section be duplicated in all Royal Flying Corps wings, and that he be allowed to establish and provide training for each in turn. Trenchard sup- ported Laws’s efforts, and as the war continued, an increasing number of bomber units received their own photographic sections, which Laws brought to a high state of expertise.*4  Among Laws’s greatest contributions was his successful effort, along with several other officers, to develop the L-type and LB-type cameras, introduced in 1917 and mainstays in aerial photography until well into the interwar period. The L type could operate manually or automatically and could be mounted in any position on the aircraft. The LB type used lenses with much longer focal lengths— up to 20 inches—and was thus capable of taking highresolution photos.*=  Laws continued his efforts during the interwar period, despite the RAF’s limited interest in aerial photography. In command of the School of Photography at Farnborough three times between the end of the Great War and 1933, Laws continued pushing