ry was prostrate, and its people were utterly demoralized. Most of all, however, its oil plants, trains, barges, and war indus- tries, and therefore its armies, had ground to a halt under the relentless hammering of bomber attacks.  These figures paint a stark picture of bombing’s material and human costs. In the decades since 1945, arguments among scholars still rage back and forth about bombing’s effectiveness and moral implications. However, as recent scholarship has engaged with new sources and used new methodologies, increasing numbers of historians have decided the effort, though brutal and costly, played an instrumental role in Allied victory. The emerging consensus is that bombing was a vital element of Allied strategy and was the only way to bring major military strength to bear before OVERLORD.  Intelligence Accomplishments, Issues, and Failures  This work has arrived at the same basic conclusions, but from a different direction. It began where most scholarship has left off, looking not only at bombing’s effects, but at what airmen knew of them at the time and how that knowledge shaped their decisions. It has also carried the analysis beyond Normandy and the Western Front to encompass effects on the Eastern Front, and in particular bombing’s influence on ground operations from D-day to VE Day. In a larger sense, this work provides an understanding of the Anglo-American air intelligence organization, the personnel working within it, and the vital insights they provided. These allowed decision makers to steer bombers to the proper targets and thereby do significant damage to vital target sets. This occurred even though there were clear failures along the way: the fruitless bombing of U-boat bases, the parochial and mammoth struggle over preinvasion bombing, cRossBow, the Portal-Harris imbroglio, and the unending  Page 337 of 423 79%  wre eee Ee ee eee eee oe oe ee oe ee oe Se eee SS eS eee eee roe ee eee eee Ee eee eee eee eee win the war. This was a conclus