e seen as the most expendable, or both. Those in the first category included old people, children, and to a much lesser degree women; those in the latter category included foreign forced laborers. Equally noteworthy was an RE8 reminder that key industries, including aircraft factories and ball-bearing plants (both at the top of the Allies’ target priority list), tended to be located on the outskirts of cities and thus less likely to be damaged. Only precision-instrument and chemical factories, often in old buildings near the city center, were frequently hit.24  Page 147 of 423 37%  production at remaining plants was a significant oversight. Thus, despite all the work RE8 put into them, figures on lost man-hours remained imprecise.  Another problem stemmed from the fact that Bomber Command reports were concerned with lost man-hours of labor but also placed heavy emphasis on the destruction of cities and buildings. One such study, produced in November 1943, noted that the total area destroyed in raids on the 38 largest German cities was 84,848 acres (32.5 square miles), or 25.5 percent of their built-up areas.18 Aside from the fact that such figures said nothing about will and ability to continue fighting, they seemed to become, at times, an end in themselves.  Despite the heavy damage done by the Ruhr raids, there were no signs of German capitulation, which led Harris to commit his command to destroying Berlin. He believed the capital of the Reich, with its 3 million inhabitants, large marshaling yards, and 196 major factories, held the key to compelling the Nazi leadership to sue for peace. With the severe damage already done to cities in the Ruhr and elsewhere, Harris believed an all-out effort against Berlin would do the trick.1® Harris, appealing for American support, which was not forthcoming, said, “We can wreck Berlin from end to endif the U.S.A.A.F. will come in on it. It will cost between 400-500 aircraft. It will cost Germany the war.”22 A month later, as a