pable soldiers and the ones in greatest need. This ill-considered practice was a significant cause of decreasing combat effectiveness among Wehrmacht units after August 1944 and one exacerbated by transportation attacks. It was another example of friction brought on by logistical and policy failures; high-intensity ground combat, which destroyed heavy weapons at a prodigious pace; and bombing, which hindered delivery of replacement weapons.122 In comparing these oversights with the relative lack of such errors in damage reports for the oil offensive, it becomes clear the oil industry simply lent itself to more accurate assessments because it was a more bounded problem.  Nevertheless, intelligence experts became steadily better at assessing both the effects and effectiveness of transportation attacks.4=4 Even when they did miss important indicators, their lack of insight did not equate to a lack of effects. Heavy-bomber attacks often did grievous harm to the German war effort even though the intelligence organization sometimes missed them.  But on the other side of the ledger, even when intelligence made something abundantly clear, senior leaders occasionally chose to ignore it. Sadly, this remained a problem throughout the war regarding so-called morale effects.  To the Bitter End: Allied Bombing and Morale Effects  Despite abundant intelligence indicating that morale effects could not seriously undermine the German war effort, and despite changes in the PoINTBLANK directive that eventually dropped morale as an objective, airmen developed four plans and in one case carried out massive air operations designed to bring the German government to its knees. How they thought they could do this given ironclad Nazi domestic control remains difficult to grasp. Nevertheless, political and military leaders gave operations THUNDERCLAP, HURRICANE I and II, and CLARION rapt attention. Only CLARION went forward. Its aim was to create such widespread havoc in villages and towns wit