nding reconnaissance aircraft over the target to observe traffic visually, by analyzing vertical or oblique photos over a period of days, or by relying on special operations teams, would reveal whether there was hidden damage impeding use of the bridge.  Reports such as these went to the BAU and AEB, which quickly developed a close working relationship. Both evolved rapidly after their activation in August and together made up more than 200 personnel. BAU experts came from major intelligence organizations, including RE8, MEW, the RRS, and the ACIU. They composed a self-supporting, motorized unit with five detached parties for sur- veys. Group Captain E. S. D. Drury, chief armament officer for AEAF, commanded the BAU. Zuckerman was his scientific director.1®  Page 233 of 423 57%  DLAI LTILOLIIBEELICE SVECIAOLoS, LILO UO At fill DVALMALIUIL DUALU LAL DD PICUCCE ool Ul UIE UTLLLEU OLALEDS OLIGLE BIL DULLUIIIE OULVE YY], ALLELUIA UI VELALIU Tal RES ALEH OCCU ULL, ALIN ollidil UVorisit Leaiilo surveying bomb damage from missions flown by aircraft assigned to their commands. The latter went in first and fed reports to their owning commands, the BAU, and the AEB.  One of these teams was a Third Bombardment Division unit led by Major Mark Brown, the division’s chief photointerpreter. They studied their units’ bombing of marshaling yards such as the one at Trappes; petroleum, oil, and lubricants storage sites such as Gennevilliers, a major facility outside of Paris; and bridges such as the railroad crossing at Amizy. They took photos, interviewed workers, and produced damage assessments. These provided a wealth of information on bombing effects. For instance, the railroad bridge at Amizy yielded important information about hidden structural damage. The bridge was bombed by forty-five aircraft carrying 118 2,000-pound general-purpose bombs fused 1/10th second in the nose and 1/40th second in the tail. There were no hits but two near misses at one approach to the bridge. Altho