sion makers to steer bombers to the proper targets and thereby do significant damage to vital target sets. This occurred even though there were clear failures along the way: the fruitless bombing of U-boat bases, the parochial and mammoth struggle over preinvasion bombing, crossBow, the Portal-Harris imbroglio, and the unending morale-bombing saga culminating with CLARION. Despite these misuses of intelligence and occasional intelligence failures, the overall effort was impressive. Accordingly, this analysis of the air war from an intelligence perspective has illuminated several previously ignored issues relating to the bombing effort.  First among these is the clearly documented fact that the air intelligence effort paid huge dividends in discerning, targeting, and assessing damage to oil and transportation assets, the Reich’s most vital target sets. Air intelligence produced insights required to facilitate increasingly effective bombing. To use a biological analogy, if heavy bombers, aerial munitions, and aircrews provided the muscle hone and tendans and if the airmen eammandine them renresented the hrain then air intellisence nravided the sences—sisht hearing smell tach taste—inoan which hrain and hadv  Page 337 of 423 79%  (45.8 percent).4 Bomber crews flew more than 1,400,000 sorties escorted by fighter pilots flying another 2,680,000. At its peak, the air armada carrying the war to the Reich comprised more than 28,000 aircraft. The costs for Germany were staggering: 3,600,000 dwellings—20 percent of the total—were destroyed. Over 300,000 civilians were killed and another 780,000 wounded. The number of homeless reached nearly 5,000,000.2 Germany’s cities lay in ruins, industry was prostrate, and its people were utterly demoralized. Most of all, however, its oil plants, trains, barges, and war indus- tries, and therefore its armies, had ground to a halt under the relentless hammering of bomber attacks.  These figures paint a stark picture of bombing’s material a