ed by damage assessments and, ironically, later dashed by them. They also hoped, mistakenly, that the Americans would join the city-bombing effort. Finally, their belief that the German war economy was fully mobilized led them to conclude that bombing could undermine the German war effort. There was in fact much less slack in the economy than previous scholarly works—and both the British and American postwar bombing surveys—have indicated, so there was actually some basis for hope here.22 However, undermining Germany’s war economy, though it was tightly stretched, ultimately proved beyond Bomber Command’s means. Intelligence personnel also initially missed, then underestimated, the German capacity for dispersing industries, with the notable exception of oil plants and refineries, and railroads, which remained quite vulnerable. These issues would have serious consequences for bombing, despite—and also because of—Harris’s untiring efforts and utter determination to carry through his city-bombing program.  In addition, Sir Henry Tizard, Britain’s chief scientist, thought Cherwell’s assumptions far too optimistic. Aside from the bomber production figure, which he thought high, Tizard questioned Cherwell’s assertion that the fiftyeight cities would be easy to find and destroy. He also believed the estimate that each bomber produced would fly an average of fourteen sorties during its service life overly optimistic based on recorded loss rates. Tizard concluded it would be impossible for Bomber Command to achieve decisive results by mid-1943 and that such results would not be possible until a much larger armada took to the air. His concerns sounded a cautionary note ignored in the now-heady atmosphere.42  Despite the upbeat mood among senior leaders, Churchill, even in his enthusiasm for city bombing, never lost sight of the fact that everyone involved must  regard the Bomber offensive against Germany at least as a feature in breaking her war-will second only to the larges