red new technicians, tools, and techniques. One key result of these developments was the birth of damage assessment as a distinct intelligence discipline.  Air Intelligence Developments, 1916  The first bombing campaign with military-strategic aims occurred in 1916, when the RNAS and French Army bomber squadrons attempted to impede the German war effort by destroying industrial targets, in the process drawing German fighters from the front to protect these targets. This offensive was hampered by a severe shortage of pilots and machines, and by the continued absence of onboard cameras for strike photos.12 The only bright spot was the French air staff’s attention to target selection and damage assessment. French planners and their British counterparts developed a target list, including steel furnaces and arms plants, and ranked them by their importance to the German war effort. They then ascertained whether each objective was in range and vulnerable. Finally, they assigned an order of priority on the basis of the feasibility of damaging or destroying each target.2° However, this first effort illustrated that target selection was only half the equation; the other half involved judging effects and effectiveness. The Allies were not prepared to do this in 1916.  The campaign began in summer 1916 and deteriorated rapidly due to high losses, aircraft shortages, and bad weather.24 One of the biggest problems was the inability to get reliable damage reports. When bombers attacked enemy troop concentrations or artillery near the front, they usually did so in conjunction with friendly artillery barrages, and the results showed up on reconnaissance photos. However, once the Allies began bombing targets beyond the range of artillery, they had to rely on aircrew observations because ground commanders, who had tasking authority over observation squadrons, rarely allocated scarce reconnaissance assets to assess the effects of bombing missions, which most of them considered wasted e