nsive training for bombardiers, navigators, and pilots; from outstanding target materials, including aiming point reports produced by the EOU at the American embassy in London; target vulnerability notes authored by RE8; detailed target maps, charts, and diagrams from Bomber Command Int. 1 and the ACIU; and the Norden bombsight.”2 The high losses resulted from a flawed doctrine stipulating that bombers could fly unescorted without excessive losses. This proved egregiously in error and placed the entire daylight bombardment effort in jeopardy after heavy losses during the Schweinfurt and Regensburg missions in August and October 1943.  Page 162 of 423 AN%  PELELOMILE AMM UIICL CAPMIAIMALIUIL LUE CVELY UUs. VV C1) UIIE Ul ULLELIOLVE UES Ail, LIE SAUL ALU REO UStUt Lillo Uldeidill LU UCTIVLE PIC VIU US UdiTId ES Lollattedt iit DLUE) ALM Udilld ee Caltott UY Lilie clot fai (shaded in red).  The last second-phase office heavily involved in damage-assessment work was F (Transportation) Section, which began with seven people in 1941 and grew to fifteen by 1944. The head of section was a railway expert in civilian life who had been drafted, given sufficient rank, and put in charge, a story repeated many times at the ACIU, which hired civilians with detailed knowledge of various industries. By September 1941 the section had produced assessments of all major railroad and inland waterway targets to include the level and type of activity as well as overall importance. When the bombing of railroads and, later, bridges, viaducts, and canals in France and Belgium began in March 1944 in preparation for Operation OVERLORD, F Section interpreters had already studied the effects of raids flown against these target types in 1943 and could assess damage with great accuracy. Like their counterparts in D Section, they worked closely with K Section to ensure details on bomb damage made it into K reports. They also worked directly with the Railway Targets Committee to choose the highest-pri