led to give in when gasoline and ammunition ran out. Even without gasoline, however, the Germans exacted a heavy toll. Some 10,677 Americans died in action in Europe during April 1945, reminding us that a German army with gasoline and more ammunition would have been an extraordinarily dangerous foe even in 1945.22  A similar shift in casualty ratios occurred in the east, as German units, forced to fight too far forward and with too little gasoline as a result of Hitler’s stand-fast orders, the oil and transportation offensives, and poor logistical practices, were captured in much larger numbers from June 1944 to VE Day. Until June 1944, casualty ratios for major campaigns in the east were over 2:1 inthe Germans’ favor. However, when the Red Army’s summer offensive began in June 1944, loss ratios began drawing even. They moved to about 1.4:1 and stayed there.2? In the east, as in the west, casualty ratios shifted dramatically once the Germans began running out of gasoline and ammunition. German casualties also soared each time the Allies and the Red Army achieved breakouts that ended periods of static warfare and replaced them with fluid battles that used up the Wehrmacht’s increasingly limited supplies.  Despite these shifts in loss ratios, the Red Army suffered 300,000 casualties per month during the last four months of the war, while the Allies suffered about 50,000 per month. Had the war continued another three months, the Grand Alliance could therefore have suffered over a million additional casualties. This brings us to the other key question regarding the role of bombing: how much sooner did the war end as a result of the transportation and oil campaigns? There is no obvious answer, but if the air intelligence effort had been flawed and bombers sent against less lucrative targets, the Germans could have resisted for perhaps another three or four months. Had they received even marginally adequate fuel and ammunition supplies, they could have engaged in some sem