conventional area for moving large trains through the city to distant locations. The electrified portion was crucial because it provided the link between goods coming into and out of Paris, including those produced in local factories and, more importantly, goods produced or stored at Gennevilliers and other POL facilities. The destruction of this vital electrified hinge made marshaling trains nearly impossible. (USAFA)  Brigadier General J. Fickel, chief of the AEB, offered the BAU office space in the same building as his unit near Paris. The BAU-AEB liaison soon included combined survey teams, compilation of survey results into targetspecific dossiers, collective analysis, and collaborative production of reports. A combined committee, chaired by Drury and Fickel, met every two weeks to select targets for surveys and review completed reports.4&  Zuckerman and his advisors visited London frequently to collect target materials and conduct liaison work with other agencies and commands, as did members of the other ground-survey teams. They also relied heavily on data provided by the SNCF, which detailed seven scientific experts to work on the BAU. By the time the transportation offensive against the Reich began in November, air intelligence personnel had made good use of BAU-AEB damage reports to plan and assess this last and largest air campaign against Nazi Germany.1®  tm WW They also relied heavily on data provided by the SNCF, which detailed seven scientific experts to work on the BAU. By the time the transportation offensive against the Reich began in November, air 162  intelligence personnel had made good use of BAU-AEB damage reports to plan and assess this last and largest air campaign against Nazi Germany.  Page 238 of 423 58%  Destroyed locomotive repair shop at Trappes. These were the most vital facilities at marshaling yards. Their destruction reduced an already insufficient repair capability and meant locomotives (also in short supply) serviced in these rep