-Falaise pocket, blaming fuel shortages. Although he no doubt feared Hitler’s wrath, given the latter’s attitude toward retreat, there is no question the Germans had severe fuel shortages by this point. This request followed an 11 August message from Luftgau West France declaring that “in all evacuations fuel stocks, down to the last pint, [must] be taken back” to the Reich in case of a general withdrawal from France. Between the destruction of marshaling yards, fighterbomber attacks on truck convoys, and Special Air Service-Maquis ambushes, very little fuel made it that far“ In a 30 August memo to Hitler, Speer said, “The basis for army movements at the Front is getting so slight that planned operations can no longer take place in October. In the present fuel situation, it is no longer possible to gain offensive successes, as the fuel quantities required for the supplies necessary for an offensive are no longer available.”  Intercepts of messages dealing with damage to oil targets were also valuable. A 16 July message from Generalleutnant Gesternberg, in charge of Ploesti’s air defenses, to military staffs and ministries in Berlin noted the effects of a 15 July attack on Ploesti, providing details on damage to specific components of various refineries, likely loss of production, and approximate time required for repairs. A similar report of 22 July said, “Hydrogenation works Maltheuren near Brueck [Briix]: damage to distillery, oxygen plant and among the tanks.”26 Such messages corroborated damage assessments or, in cases where the two varied, provided “ground truth.”  Despite these and many other crucial intercepts, Ultra was not unerringly accurate or comprehensive. Many German industrial concerns communicated by other means, especially secure landline communications, while oil and transportation officials turned to Ultra heavily only after the damage caused by these massive air offensives robbed them of these other means of communication. Lieutenant Colonel Will