gence, the first chapter was much more impressive. At the same time, the value of air intelligence to the transportation campaign was becoming even clearer.  Ground-Survey Teams: Assessing Bombing Effectiveness  By September 1944, there was no doubt about the decisive nature of the transportation offensive, and ground-survey teams soon set to work drawing lessons from it. The ex post facto damage reports they produced drove an iterative learning process put to good use during the 1944-1945 transportation campaign against the Reich.  Thaca taame had four anale: ta aceartain the accuracy of analweac nraduced during thea camnaion ta datarminea how anaratiane cauld hawe haan imnravad ta diccawear haw well miunitiane warked  Page 230 of 423 56%  to attack with any significant results. Intelligence reports later confirmed ineffectiveness of these politically necessary attacks. Churchill had to show the British people he was doing something, even if it had virtually no military value.4*  Hitler ordered the first V-1 attacks on 13 June 1944, much later than would have been the case without the superb intelligence leading to the 17-18 August 1943 Peenemiinde raid and cRossBow’s first phase. cRossBow took on ever greater importance in summer 1944, as more and more V-1s struck London and other major cities, causing significant civilian casualties and forcing an immediate political response. In fact, Churchill insisted that V-1 launch sites move back to the top of the target list, which they did for the second time on 18 June after the Germans fired a record 300 rockets on 15-16 June. The wrangling over crosssow priorities continued, as did the average 100 launches per day, until Allied armies overran the launch sites.4=2  Despite Portal’s unhappiness with the politicians on this score and his determination to keep heavy bombers pointed at what he believed to be more lucrative targets, he knew he could not change their minds. Nevertheless, he did not put any sustained energy in