sing, throughout his otherwise voluminous memoir. A brief reference does end on a positive note based on the outcome of these important attacks, but Tedder’s virtual silence throughout his memoir is telling.** Tedder said he saw no value in substituting bridges for marshaling yards (he said nothing of their complementarity). His argument hinged on two points, both incorrect. First, he said, the Germans would repair bridges within fourteen days, meaning if bridge attacks occurred, they had to do so within two weeks of the assault to keep the location of the landing beaches secret. Tedder chose to ignore abundant evidence available from sTRANGLE that time required for repairs correlated directly to the extent of the damage and the length and type of bridge involved. His arguments about secrecy were also baseless. The entire preinvasion bombing program was designed to keep the Germans guessing about the landings’ locations, and bridge attacks would  Page 195 of 423 48%  ee ee eee eee eee ey pe EAR REE aN CFEC e NER Ah he FAL CIE EEA SER UA es TES CREE As heey SRS LEE COANE IE CAR Eh SA, PY MELON WE MVS Mew ee ep garden path before, partly because the targets are in difficult areas ... and partly because I am not sure of the vulnerability of the new synthetic oil plants.”42 Each argument was flawed. The fact that oil attacks had been tried before and had not worked ignored the existing realities. Tedder’s effort to discredit Spaatz’s proposed oil offensive, with thousands of four-engine bombers, by comparing it to the relatively miniscule and ineffective RAF oil attacks in 1940-1941, is difficult to comprehend. The earlier offensive was bound to fail for reasons already made clear. The claim that oil plants were in “difficult areas” to strike was also inaccurate. Quite the opposite was often true. In most cases these facilities, especially the large hydrogenation plants, were outside of urban areas and thus made very good aim points for USAAF “precision” and the emergin