l, and 10,000 cubic feet of fuel gas. It then provided insights on every major component of synthetic oil plants! This kind of detail was the norm. The manual gave USAAF photointerpreters a firm grounding in their discipline before they arrived at their duty stations.  By January 1944, the intellectual infrastructure for Allied air intelligence was mature. The technologies, technicians, and techniques required to produce accurate damage reports were in place, as was the centralized tasking, collection, and dissemination machinery based first on ADI(Ph) and after May 1944 on the JPRC. Photointerpreters had a deep knowledge of target sets, as did their counterparts and coworkers at RE8 and MEW. Intelligence experts and the organizational-intellectual infrastructure they had built over the previous four years were poised to support heavy-bomber campaigns in 1944-1945, and senior airmen were not long in letting them know what those campaigns would target.  The Allies were ready to engage in a series of major air offensives with four primary purposes: to win air supremacy; to isolate German units in Normandy from their sources of supply and reinforcement in preparation for Operation OVERLORD and during the actions to follow; to destroy the Reich’s oil industry, undermining the Wehrmacht’s mobility and combat power; and to destroy the German transportation network and thus the Reich’s war economy. These campaigns, preceded by a smaller effort against Italy that highlighted both the potential and the limitations of attacking transportation networks as a means for reducing the enemy’s combat power, played a vital role in speeding the victory over Nazi Germany. Their efficacy was aided instrumentally by a mature and in- creasingly sophisticated Anglo-American intelligence structure.  NINE  TRANSPORTATION CAMPAIGNS  Bombing, Air Intelligence, and the Defeat of German Armies in France, 1944  Bombardment operations relating to transport [are] perfectly conceived and realized. I