en American bombers began arriving in large numbers in 1943. At one point early in the war, Air Chief Marshal Lord Charles Portal, Chief of Air Staff, told Prime Minister Winston Churchill that it would take 4,000 heavy bombers six months to destroy the German war economy and undermine its people’s morale. If Portal erred in his ideas about morale effects, his estimate that 4,000 bombers could do grievous harm to the Third Reich’s war effort proved extremely accurate.24  This success revolved around one of the great and little-recognized truths of the air war: the British, who developed an air intelligence structure capable of discerning, targeting, and producing damage assessments for specific target sets vital to the German war effort, were ideally situated to provide air intelligence for American high-altitude precision daylight bombardment. They were also able to assess the results of Bomber Command’s city raids to a lesser extent, but there was a unique fit between British precision bomb damage assessment and American precision bombing. As the USAAF air intelligence effort got into high gear, a number of Americans commented on how effectively the British supported them. By late 1944, USAAF commanders were concerned about excessive American reliance on British air intelligence.22  In attempting to gauge air intelligence efficacy, it is important first to recognize that there were three distinct kinds of damage assessments during the world wars. The first involved assessing accuracy, effects, and effectiveness during the conflict, when there was no ground access to targets (noncontact intelligence). In this instance, knowledge was most incomplete and conclusions most subject to error. Even the sophisticated Allied photoreconnaissance and photointerpretation capabilities developed by 1944 provided incomplete knowledge. Lack of direct access to targets placed limi- tations on what intelligence specialists could piece together from available sources.  The second var