ity bombing. Yet they continued to think seriously about the effects of various munitions against oil plants, marshaling yards, and other precision targets on which attacks had been abandoned as impracticable in early 1941 and would not come under heavy attack until 1944. In the case of oil plants, many of Germany’s largest synthetic-oil producers were outside of urban areas and could not have been struck serendipitously during city raids. Destroying them  Page 129 of 423 33%  pound and 1,000-pound varieties and in July 1942 the huge 4,000-pound Blockbuster, produced better blast damage and much larger craters, which disrupted utilities and made firefighting difficult by breaking underground electric lines, water mains, and sewage pipes. The meeting’s key outcome was a redoubled effort to produce large numbers of medium-capacity bombs in 1941, an objective the British met. The new generation of bombs, produced with sheet metal and without fins, resembled oil barrels more than bombs. However ungainly their appearance, they became the primary agents of destruction, along with several effective incendiary bombs, in city raids.  Incendiaries proved to be key enablers for city bombing. The British developed three basic varieties, including a 4-pound magnesium-filled bomb in 1934, a 30-pound phosphorous and hydrocarbon- gel weapon, and the 30-pound J bomb, which was in effect a shape-charged weapon emitting a focused and extremely hot flame. These were, quite literally, Bomber Command's fire-starting devices for city raids.  By January 1941, Bomber Command was well on the way to building a master list of bombs and fuses, showing optimum bomb and fuse combinations for various targets including factory buildings, oil plants, and water and gas mains, among others. One of the key conclusions in the memo accompanying these tables was that incendiaries caused much more damage in urban areas, especially if dropped in conjunction with large high-explosive bombs. The idea was to s