rations got into high gear in January 1944, when it appeared as though Air Marshal Trafford Leigh-Mallory would have operational control not only over tactical aircraft, but also over heavy bombers. This drew an immediate reaction from every other major player, most of whom saw Leigh-Mallory’s plans as either ineffective or disastrous. His Joint Planning Staff intelligence officers believed that unless they took measures beforehand, German leaders would be able more quickly to concentrate their forces, using northwest Europe’s dense road and rail networks. Consequently, their first plan, designed during the last half of 1943, was intended to delay movement of enemy forces attempting to reinforce the Normandy battle area. Their objective was to force German reinforcements to detrain at least 100 miles from the battle area. Target selection for this plan centered on rail centers about 60 miles from the beachhead with other targets outside that area to confuse the Germans as to the invasion’s exact location. This, they continued, meant the transportation plan should not start more than two weeks before OVERLORD. The first draft of this plan hit the presses on 30 December 1943.2  The AEAF plan’s questionable underpinnings, including a very short period of air activity based mostly on tactical interdiction and attacks on depots and an astonishing decision to accept combat with the Luftwaffe over the beaches if necessary, were dangerous.®%  Fortunately, Zuckerman rescued Leigh-Mallory’s plan, making something much better—and much bigger—of it. As scientific advisor to Leigh-Mallory’s staff, Zuckerman brought his deep expertise to the planning process. His improvements ultimately resulted in the transportation campaign plan, unveiled on 24 January 1944 and the one Eisenhower chose at the 25 March 1944 meeting—a two- month gap from inception to approval.® The Air Ministry approved and told Leigh-Mallory future plans should be based on Zuckerman’s insights. Tedder’s role her