serving, it was at the least bad analysis. Consequently, Spaatz’s unwillingness to give adequate credence to Zuckerman’s exhaustive research, where railroads had proven vital choke points, was unfortunate. It also proved perplexing, given Spaatz’s previous support for Tedder’s ideas about what came to be the transpor- tation plan.22 Spaatz’s EOU advisors, however, proved to be correct in arguing for bridge attacks.  Bridge Attacks: The Other Spaatz/EOU Plan  In contrast to their British counterparts, Spaatz and his EOU team followed bridge attacks carefully and were impressed by the amount of time it took German combat engineers to rebuild damaged bridges. The Germans spent an average of seventeen days completing these repairs. It took them up to a month to repair longer steel bridges. Zuckerman argued against the practice, estimating it would take an average of 1,200 tons of bombs to drop one bridge. The EOU estimate of 220 tons proved more accurate.2+  Spaatz also profited from 15th Air Force Operational Research Section reports on bridge attacks. The culminating report noted that 706 bombers dropped 1,906 tons of bombs on bridges during the period from 1 April to 4 June 1944. Their accuracy in good weather was 41 percent of bombs within 1,000 feet; in bad weather, it was 26 percent within 1,000 feet. Of twentytwo bridges attacked, seven received hits. It thus took an average of 101 bombers dropping 270 tons of bombs for each hit. This was a major improvement over the same period in 1943, when it took an average of 190 bombers to produce one hit. The report’s key recommendation to improve accuracy was to bomb on as many independent sightings as possible from three-ship formations instead of the six- or nine-aircraft frontage in combat box formations. This represented an exception to LeMay’s lead-bombardier technique. Bridges had recognizable aim points that allowed even inexperienced bombardiers to lay the Norden bombsight’s crosshairs on target.22 Nonetheless, he