ct, it is supplied with information. ... Control of this organisation would be vested in the Air Ministry under the Directorate of Intelligence. ... Until this, or some other similar scheme is fulfilled, a large amount of information not available from interpretation, and the vast amount yet to be tapped, will not be made available to the ori- ginal recipients in the shortest possible time, and in the form required by the latter.42  Although a bitter fight with Coastal Command lay ahead, the Air Ministry ultimately sided with Tuttle and Riddell and brought the CIU and PRUs back under air staff operational control in summer 1943.  By August 1941, the CIU had assumed its basic shape. It had fourteen sections, including the first-, second-, and third-phase interpretation sections, where the heart of the mission occurred. First- phase interpretation was now carried out by CIU photointerpreters assigned to the three PRU flights at Benson, St. Eval, and Wick. They sent reports by teletype and courier to interested parties, including K Section, which reviewed and then forwarded them to all customers on their distribution lists as immediate interpretation reports. By 1944, there were over 540 customers for these assess- ments. Photointerpreters involved in second-phase interpretation examined up to fifty prints during a twelve-hour shift. Once they completed this, annotated prints and reports went to specialists in the third-phase sections, including D and K Sections, who used them to develop detailed reports, usually in conjunction with MEW and other intelligence agencies.*4 CIU instructions said, “Third Phase Officers have constantly to examine ground features in this country [UK] similar to those they are reporting on in enemy occupied territory. They have, therefore, to be constantly detached for special investigations.”42 They were, in other words, frequently visiting British factories, oil plants (there were several synthetic oil plants and crude oil refineries in Gre