effort that the air intelligence organizations built first by the British and later, with much British assistance, by the Americans paid their greatest dividends. Their skills increased rapidly as a result of improved analytical and cognitive tools in combination with rapid growth in the number of reconnaissance aircraft. By spring 1944, these improvements allowed them to determine, accurately and consistently, what bombing was doing to the German war effort, and how the Allies could obtain maximum advantage from those effects. The effort was not perfect by any means, but very few things in war, the most unpredictable of human activities, ever are.  British air intelligence capabilities were essentially mature over two years before the Allies had enough heavy bombers to engage in major air offensives. The reasons for this are complex and will become clear later, but for now it is important only to note that both British and American senior leaders took as an article of faith that they would eventually have enough bombers to attack Germany’s war effort heavily, systematically, and with great effect. This, along with an effort in both Great Britain and the United States to develop a daylight precision bombing capability in the decade leading up to World War II, helps to explain the heavy and long-term emphasis the British in particular put on the development of air intelligence capabilities. This is somewhat easier to understand given the British intent to use strategic bombing as an economic weapon that, along with naval blockade, was designed to bring Germany to its knees—or at least to the negotiating table.  However, the intensive British effort to develop an air intelligence capability indicates that they were thinking beyond the idea of bombers as instruments of economic warfare. They clearly believed the air weapon might also strike a heavy military blow while simultaneously creating profound German morale problems. The resulting faith that their air intelligen