ed from military-strategic to operational and tactical targets. Nonetheless, these raids served a dual purpose by hampering the German advance while also interdicting the movement of coal and steel. The bright flash is an ammunition wagon exploding. (NARA)  Increasing numbers of POW interrogation reports joined Ultra in late 1944. One such report concerned a German noncommissioned officer who had worked for the Reichsbahn from February 1941 to September 1944. He confirmed damage reports that locomotives were in short supply, that their maintenance was inadequate as a result of the scarcity of functioning repair shops, and that bomb- ing was making the situation steadily worse. He also corroborated specific damage assessments to various marshaling yards.44  Despite serious damage to railroads and canals, the focus on oil was more coherent. At a CSTC meeting in late December, Bufton complained that the transportation targeting process was in disarray and lamented the serious differences of opinion about its proper focus. He said it was time to determine which kinds of attacks (on the economy, on military movement, or on “close support” of the ground battle) made the most sense and ensure proper prioritization.*4 Although this was a serious problem, it was largely unavoidable, despite Bufton’s efforts, because of the frequent demands placed on heavy bombers to support Allied armies.  The problem was not yet resolved three weeks later when CSTC representatives argued about whether such attacks should focus on degrading the Wehrmacht’s logistics, the German war economy, or both. The weight of bombs dropped on transportation targets was six times that dropped on oil in December 1944, but the payoff not as great. Nevertheless, these raids caused severe damage, dis- rupting coal shipments. The Dortmund-Ems canal, a vital coal-distribution conduit, had been out of action continuously for four months.4*  Aweek later, the Joint Intelligence Subcommittee (JIC) entered the fray,