damage, including destruction of the ball-bearing-forming and heat-treatment build- ings and the top two stories of the assembly and storage building. The ACIU K report said:  Very heavy and concentrated damage is visible within the target area, due probably as much to fire as to H.E. All three factories of the Schweinfurt ball bearing industry and the two closely allied therewith have been affected, those of the V.K.F. Werks I and II suffering very severe damage. In many cases, buildings damaged in the previous raid have now been destroyed or have received further damage.7&  An RE8 report estimated losses at three months of ball-bearing production and seven weeks for roller bearings. Yet RE8, not yet fully cognizant of dispersal activities, based these assessments on an assumption that all damaged buildings and machinery would be replaced on-site. The Germans dispersed instead, which put them back in production more quickly than RE8 estimated.  It also became clear after the war that damage had been more severe than RE8 estimated. During a postwar interrogation, officials from the Kugelfischer Company said the raids reduced ball- bearing production at Schweinfurt by 50 percent, but that repair and dispersal brought production back to 80 percent of the preattack level. (The plant and its satellites never returned to 100 percent of preattack production, an indication that the raids did grievous damage.) They also said repeat raids, while too infrequent, kept production at 40 to 75 percent of the preraid total. Speer said the Germans had already begun to decentralize ball-bearing production by the time of the first Schweinfurt attack on 17 August, but also said a concerted attack on all sources of production would have been a serious problem. Even Swedish imports could not—and in fact did not—compensate entirely for these production losses.78  A Counterfactual Question: Bomber Command and Ball-Bearing Plants  This analysis raises the question of Bomber Command’s role—