er, he told Hitler, “We are faced with the beginning of the most severe crisis in coal sup- ply since the beginning of the war.”125  Insufficient deliveries reduced the Reichsbahn’s coal stocks by 40,000 tons per day. Electric power plants also saw a dramatic decrease, from 1,237,000 tons on 1 September to 865,000 tons on 28 September. Gasworks in the Ruhr had less than ten days’ supply, key ironworking plants were down to a three days’ supply, and many armament and food factories were on the point of stoppage. Speer warned: “For more than six weeks now the Ruhr has been virtually sealed off, to an increasing extent, from its markets through transport difficulties” while industrial coal stocks “will be exhausted by the end of November, unless a decided improvement in deliveries has been possible,”12&  Why, then, did coal shipments and the Reich’s war economy not collapse in late fall 1944? There were two main reasons. First, Spaatz and Bottomley viewed oil as a better target and gave it priority. Second, the Ardennes offensive pulled bombers away from many targets best suited to reduce coal deliveries. Nevertheless, in the latter case, air attacks starved German armies of fuel and ammunition and damaged rail centers through which much of the Reich’s coal moved.422 Despite the intensity of heavy-bomber attacks, the Germans could normally move enough trains to provide a bare minimum of fuel, coal, and component parts for weapons in between attacks. Given the bad fall and winter weather, as well as the inaccuracies of blind bombing, aircrews could not keep rail centers entirely inoperative. Nor could reconnaissance aircraft reliably deliver poststrike cover. As Speer noted:  After the transport of coal by rail had fallen off, owing to traffic difficulties, its transportation by canal became decisive in the maintenance of industry in central Germany. . . . It was possible to maintain industrial production in Germany on an emergency basis thanks to the fact that we alway