at Orfordness, two key studies based on bombing accuracy during training flights should have gotten the Air Ministry’s attention. The first, from 1924, said high-altitude bombing would be impossible on most days over the skies of Europe, while on others it could be carried through effectively by waiting for clouds to clear directly over the target. Similarly, the second study, completed in 1927, said high-altitude bombing under ideal conditions would score hits with no more than 10 percent of bombs dropped on targets less than 200 yards in diameter, with “very much worse results” in poor visibility. It also concluded that high-altitude bombing of rail centers (very large targets) was “practically useless” given these problems.© These studies fell on deaf ears. The British would have to learn about the difficulties of high-altitude precision daylight bombing, and for that matter night area and precision bombing, quite literally on the fly.  This lack of attention to bombing began to change once the Nazis came to power, and it is to the period after January 1933 that we must now turn to see how this influenced the development of air intelligence-related technologies, techniques, technicians, and organizational innovations.  Page 56 of 423 18%  economic vulnerabilities might be translated into military ones. This organization soon began an increasingly frequent correspondence with another coordinating body, the Industrial Intelligence in Foreign Countries Subcommittee (FCI), also founded by the Committee of Imperial Defence six years later, in 1929, but this time at the specific behest of the secretaries of state for war and air, who sought detailed insights on industrial mobilization in Germany and Italy. To do this effectively, the FCI leadership recognized that an economic intelligence team focused exclusively on these questions was indispensable. Accordingly, they established the IIC in 1931. The IIC worked increasingly closely with the Air Ministry’s Directorate o