rts was low and their failure rate high. Even worse, components had to be shipped to a central assembly point and put together without an effective quality control process. As Kogler said, “It was a Sisyphean task, which had now become necessary.”22 He continued:  Then came the dark side of this mass-production, and above all this production in primitive workshops under unimaginably unfavourable conditions. In September [1944] I started to re-equip the first “Gruppen” of my “Geschwader,” and to bring up the strength and to equip the second “Gruppe” which was already in operation against the invasion. The “Gruppen” were brought up to a strength of about 60 to 70 aircraft and a corresponding number of pilots, and then the retraining started. During the re-training I lost the following: six excellent pilots killed, a large number seriously wounded, and between 40 and 50 aircraft, I can no longer remember the number exactly. Only because of technical defects. Each time a “Gruppe” went to a so-called “Gruppe” training flight, I had to count on probably one killed and two, three, four, or five emergency landings of which a certain number of aircraft had to be written off because they were damaged. ... Those were conditions which of course did not contribute towards raising the pilots’ self-confidence or strengthening their confidence in their aircraft.2°  These catastrophically high loss rates in training give testimony to the hidden costs of dispersed production. Kogler also noted that damage done to the ball-bearing plants and reserve stocks at Schweinfurt forced the Germans to use sleeve bearings in the crankshaft of the FW 190D’s Jumo 213A engine, causing serious mechanical problems. It also reminds us what might have happened had Bomber Command joined the USAAF in its August and October 1943 raids. He closed his sobering narrative with a summary of his unit’s combat experience, which lasted precisely two days because every pilot except Kogler was killed or wounded an