ill be more accurate in our bombing; when we have bombed out the heart of our present targets we should have to look elsewhere.”=2 Clearly, Paynter saw the air war extending beyond city bombing to involve a major increase in British precision attacks alongside the Americans’ attacks. Equally important for the development of damage-assessment capabilities was a statement by Mr. Lawrence, the MEW representative, that if bombers went after a specific target set such as oil or transportation, MEW had the sources at hand to assess aggregate effects. He also said his agency could determine how attacks on one industry affected the larger war economy, and by extension military capabilities and operations at the fighting fronts. The upshot of these collective ideas was an initiative by the senior leaders within each com- mand and agency to devise new report formats capable of describing the effects of precision as well as area raids.  As Americans began to arrive in large numbers, the British provided photointerpretation expertise to gauge the effects of 8th Air Force bombing. Fortunately for both parties, the visits by Majors Cabell and Hutchison in 1941 had already paid huge dividends in the establishment of Army Air Forces Air Intelligence School (AAFAIS) with its photointerpreters’ course, which gave USAAF interpreters the basic skills they needed to begin working in existing British organizations. This proved vital to the success of the combined air intelligence effort. The British were relieved because the Americans’ willingness to fit into existing British operations meant the ACIU would not have to change radically to accommodate their arrival. A British report later remarked that “our Allies, who adapted themselves admirably to the existing frame-work and collaborated whole-heartedly in the reconnaissance and interpretation effort ... were well equipped on arrival and were not long in tak- ing full advantage of the operational experience of the British Units.”=2  Co