de them safer from air attack but more vulnerable to SAS and Maquis attacks. This dispersal gave the SAS and Maquis a target-rich environment; they frequently picked off small and easily attacked truck convoys, fuel trains, fuel dumps, and barges. The transportation campaign thus created conditions in which night bombers, fighter-bombers, and SAS teams destroyed fuel stocks faster than the Germans could replace them from current production, which was plummeting by July as a result of the oil campaign. Yet even as the SAS helped solve one major problem, another was mak- ing itself felt.  Another “Diversion” : CROSSBOW  One thing SAS teams could not influence was the increasing problem with V-1 and, later, V-2 revenge weapons. Like all other high-value target sets, this one had been under careful ACIU observation since the first test launches at Peenemiinde in October and December 1942. By October 1943, despite severe damage and delays caused by Bomber Command’s 17-18 August night precision raid, the Germans were clearly preparing to launch these weapons from several massive sites under construction in the Pas de Calais region. Over 200 photoreconnaissance sorties, flown on the basis of insights provided by a French agent whose company received contracts to build several of the sites, and the thousands of pictures they produced, left no doubt something significant was afoot. The prime minister presided over a meeting on 8 November 1943 in which all available intelligence received careful consideration, especially the “ski ramp” launch sites for the V-1, which were obviously intended to fire rockets. The first nineteen (later twenty-six) launchers located had trajectories aiming directly for London. Intelligence analyses provided a worstcase scenario of 2,000 V-1 launches a day, when in fact the total proved closer to 100 as a result of the first phase of crossBow, the heavy-bomber effort against V-1s. Nonetheless, the threat appeared dire, and in late December, Bomber