l times  Page 241 of 423 58%  Fire, combined with blast damage, caused these fuel-storage tanks to warp and collapse. Most of these held gasoline, representing a major loss for the Germans. (USAFA)  A postwar intelligence report echoed the BAU’s findings:  Evidence from all sources clearly indicates that the continuous aerial attacks on transportation facilities prevented the enemy from effectively concentrating his men or material at critical times  and places. Transport proved to be the weakest link in the logistics chain, its failure was the immediate cause of the breakdown of the supply system, and consequently was a decisive factor in the collapse of the German Army.1%8  A related finding of great importance was the synergistic effect between transportation and oil attacks. Until late July, most fuel shortages were distributional—in other words, caused by the transportation network’s collapse. By August, however, the problem became increasingly one of absolute shortage. The Germans did themselves no favors by failing to move two of their three largest surface fuel depots, at Paris-Argenteuil, Bordeaux, and Lyon, into tunnels. They stored fuel from the Paris depot in subway tunnels but did nothing with stocks at Bordeaux and Lyon. Bombers des- troyed both on 2 August with a loss of 1,850,000 gallons of fuel, or two-thirds of the remaining strategic reserve in France.+92  Page 242 of 423 58%  Destroyed tanker cars and POL barrels, Gennevilliers, October 1944. This photo indicates severe damage. The large tanks scattered about and smashed were filled with POL products and set on tank car chassis in preparation for ship- ment to the front. The kind of damage evident here and in previous photos occurred at nearly every oil plant and depot. (USAFA)  Growing gasoline shortfalls began playing an increasingly important role in the ground campaign immediately after the 25-27 July American breakout from St. L6-Perriers. Shortages hampered  Page 242 of 423 58%  Destroyed t