pretation Section, Squadron Leader Muir-Warden, “Target Advisor to the C-in-C.” His duty was to select the most lucrative city targets and develop detailed target materials. Muir-Warden and his subordinates had amassed copious intelligence on German cities, even if there were still significant gaps that would play havoc with subsequent targeting and damage-assessment efforts. One key product was the annotated town mosaic, updated for every raid, which became the basis for target study and damage assessment. These covered every German city.22  By 1942, when city attacks began in earnest, night strike and poststrike photos were available for every major raid. Intelligence drawn from them became crucial in determining effects. When the shift to mixed payloads of incendiary bombs and Blockbusters began in 1942, Bomber Command intelligence personnel had the skills necessary to assess bomb damage in coordination with the newly formed Research and Experiments Department Eight (RE8). These studies, ultimately produced under an RE8 banner, included maps showing relationships between building densities, construction types, and vulnerability to fire damage. They also noted damage to high-value industrial facilities and likely repair times.24  City Raids Accelerate  Liibeck, built largely of wood, was bombed the night of 28-29 March 1942. It gave Harris a perfect first test case for the new bombing methods, and by extension for the new damage-assessment tools. The raid involved 234 bombers, including 26 of the new Short Stirling I four-engine bombers, each carrying 14,000 pounds of bombs, and 21 Avro Manchesters, each with nearly 11,000 pounds of bombs. Aircrews dropped more than 400 tons of bombs. Good visibility, light defenses, and much-improved navigation skills resulted in accurate bombing, with nearly 50 percent of bomb tonnage hitting the city, which was made largely of wooden timbers and was highly flammable. Night strike and poststrike photographs showed immense damage