riousness with which American airmen took these topics, and the professional risks they took to teach them within the framework of an evolving high-altitude, precision, daylight bombardment doctrine. Equally interesting was Westover’s willingness to ask the chief executive officers for permission to take these photographs given the prevailing climate in Congress, the White House, and among the American public. Whatever professional risks Curry and Westover ran, they were rewarded with excellent aerial photographs to enhance their course.  According to the lesson plan, after commencement of hostilities, bombers flying “strategical missions” against an enemy’s war economy would require aerial photographs giving detailed target intelligence. Photographs showing the results of attacks on key lines of communication to delay hostile concentration, the destruction of plants and factories engaged in the supply of war materials, the destruction of supply depots, and the attack of areas where enemy ground units were mobilized and concentrated before moving to the front, would be particularly important. The conceptual framework within which American bombing operated during World War II, and within which its air intelligence functions would mature, was clearly well advanced during the early interwar period, not only in doctrine documents and lesson plans, but even more importantly in the cognitive processes of American airmen. One of the most influential in the field of aerial photography was George W. Goddard.44  Goddard’s Contributions  Goddard got his start in the Great War. As one of Mitchell’s protégés, he understood aerial photography might well become indispensable to air warfare. After graduating from the Aerial Photography School at Cornell University in March 1918, Goddard instructed there while awaiting assignment overseas. In this position, he became familiar with James Bagley’s three-lens camera that used film rather than plates, had a greater field of coverage tha