hedral remained standing. Once bridges dropped into Germany’s major rivers, as they did on several occasions beginning in late 1944, barge traffic came to a near standstill. Attacks on canal locks further aggravated the problem. Rail traffic ceased, and road traffic continued only if and when German units could build pontoon bridges and get vehicles across before medium and fighter-bombers found them. (NARA)  The CSTC’s Plan: Tedder Agrees to Keep Oil at the Top  Despite these unfolding issues, there was already more bad news in store for the Germans. Although H2X was insufficiently accurate for bombing the Ruhr’s railroads and canals, Gee-H beacon stations were now operational on the Continent, allowing accurate bombing of Ruhr targets in nonvisual conditions.22 Although Gee-H was not perfect, it allowed bombers to put adequate numbers of bombs on target often enough to cause serious damage to rail centers and consequent delays in the movement of fuel, ammunition, and reinforcements. It also disrupted the flow of component parts from  Page 303 of 423 71%  The bridges at Cologne, one day before VE Day. The Hohenzollern and Deutz bridges lay in the Rhine River. The Rodenkirchen bridge, just around the bend of the river, was also down. The famous cathedral remained standing. Once bridges dropped into Germany’s major rivers, as they did on several occasions beginning in late 1944, barge traffic came to a near standstill. Attacks on canal locks further aggravated the problem. Rail traffic ceased, and road traffic continued only if and when German units could build pontoon bridges and get vehicles across before medium and fighter-bombers found them. (NARA)  The CSTC’s Plan: Tedder Agrees to Keep Oil at the Top  Despite these unfolding issues, there was already more bad news in store for the Germans. Although H2X was insufficiently accurate for bombing the Ruhr’s railroads and canals, Gee-H beacon stations were now operational on the Continent, allowing accurate bombing o