al nower. German hall-  Page 170 of 423 43%  Annotated bomb plot for the 9 October 1943 Marienburg raid. When photointerpreters analyzed shots such as this using specialized equipment, their deep expertise allowed them to make accurate judgments about everything from damage to production delays and dispersal. (NARA)  Ironically, several precision target sets worth the effort and risk were not attacked with sufficient persistence to produce decisive results—or rarely ever, as in the case of electrical power. German ball- bearing factories were a crucial case in point. According to RE8, the first USAAF raid on Schweinfurt, on 17 August, caused a 15 percent loss in production and a similar loss of finished product at the three major factories, which produced over 70 percent of Germany’s ball bearings. The 14 October raid did severe damage, including destruction of the ball-bearing-forming and heat-treatment build- ings and the top two stories of the assembly and storage building. The ACIU K report said:  Very heavy and concentrated damage is visible within the target area, due probably as much to fire as to H.E. All three factories of the Schweinfurt ball bearing industry and the two closely allied therewith have been affected, those of the V.K.F. Werks I and II suffering very severe damage. In many cases, buildings damaged in the previous raid have now been destroyed or have received further damage.7®  An RE8 report estimated losses at three months of ball-bearing production and seven weeks for roller bearings. Yet RE8, not yet fully cognizant of dispersal activities, based these assessments on an assumption that all damaged buildings and machinery would be replaced on-site. The Germans dispersed instead, which put them back in production more quickly than RE8 estimated.“  It also became clear after the war that damage had been more severe than RE8 estimated. During a postwar interrogation, officials from the Kugelfischer Company said the raids reduced ball- bearing p