ing capabilities and actions for improvement. Because the interwar period ended two years later for the Americans than for the British, this chapter reviews developments in the Army Air Corps (renamed the U.S. Army Air Forces in 1941) up to America’s entry into the war.  British and American airmen, taking their cue from political leaders, accelerated efforts to develop effective bombing capabilities. This was less difficult for the Americans given the firm doctrinal foundations laid during the early interwar period and the two superb technologies—the B-17 heavy bomber and Norden bombsight—emerging at this point. The war nonetheless caught both the Brit- ish and the Americans unprepared to engage in bombing operations.  In response to the growing German threat, British air rearmament began in earnest in 1934, but even then, twenty-two of the forty-one bomber squadrons called for in the expansion were to be composed of light bombers incapable of reaching German targets.+ Part of the rearmament effort was an Air Ministry decision in January 1934 to establish the Bombing and Air Fighting committees. The former’s purpose was to “achieve a better measure of coordination between the development of bombing methods and tactics, and the development of equipment required for their efficient application.” The presence of a representative from Air Ministry R.D.Arm.4 (Analysis of Bombing Results) was noteworthy. So, too, was the absence of an air intelligence officer until the committee’s eighteenth meeting on 26 July 1938.3 This oversight ensured that few discussions relating to air intelligence occurred before then. Nonetheless, committee decisions had implications for the develop- ment of damage-assessment capabilities.  At the second meeting on 30 May 1934, representatives agreed on a need for an automatic bombsight and formed a bomb subcommittee to develop proper ordnance for a future war. They reached agreement on the need for six bomb types: 18-pound antipersonnel, 30-pou