amage-assessment efforts more effective because it prompted interpret- ers to look for signs of dispersal and indicators of such activity.  Two other ACIU offices of note were R1 and R2 (Combined Operations) Sections, which engaged in targeting and damage assessments with and for the Special Air Service teams that played an important role in organizing and supplying the Maquis (French Resistance) in 1944. This interaction proved vital to intelligence efforts during the Normandy campaign and the breakout and pursuit across France. Special Air Service and Maquis teams provided timely damage assessments of their attacks on fuel supplies, trains, barges, and other logistical assets, which complemented Allied bomb- ing raids on marshaling yards, bridges, viaducts, and canals.  From a command-and-control perspective, the Technical Control Office also deserves mention. This office fielded production requests from outside agencies, first via ADI(Ph) and then, beginning in May 1944, from the JPRC. A subordinate body known as the Progress Section logged and prioritized all production requests, directed ACIU sections to complete them, checked their progress, assembled and confirmed the quality of all completed jobs, and dispatched the resulting reports via courier to other agencies. By 1944, the Technical Control Office received and dispatched an average of 350 orders per day.  By the end of the war, 566 officers and 1,186 other ranks were assigned to the ACIU, nearly 1,050 of whom were American. Although this paled compared with the 12,000 personnel at Bletchley Park, it was not an indication of lesser importance. In fact, the two sources—photoreconnaissance and signals intelligence—increasingly relied on one another to provide a complete picture of bomb damage.”° The print library contained 6.5 million prints stored on 2.5 miles of shelves. The Photographic Section handled 60,000 tins of film per month and had several multiprinters capable of producing 1,000 photos per hour.