arrived at, addressed in the following chapter, brought greater precision to measuring the physical effects of bombing and claimed to do so for morale effects; but in the final analysis, they proved inadequate.* Central to these efforts was the creation in November 1941 of a new office at the Ministry of Home Security, RE8. Along with MEW and the CIU, RE8 played a leading role in the damage- assessment process. It proved capable of providing detailed reports of the sort desired by Bomber Command but also produced outstanding assessments of American daylight precision attacks when they began in August 1942. The creation of RE8 was a watershed event in the development of Anglo-American air intelligence capabilities.  The Ministry of Home Security formed RE8 at the request of the Air Ministry, which recognized the requirement for a new organization to conduct scientific analysis of enemy vulnerabilities and bombing effects. With RE8’s expansion in July 1942, Squadron Leader Dewdney assumed the leadership position. Dewdney was the intelligence analyst who had pioneered the use of Ministry of Home Defense damage assessments of German raids on British industrial facilities. He had also spearheaded the use of operational research techniques to determine the weight of attack, bombing tactics, and munitions required to maximize damage to oil targets. At RE8, Dewdney continued to advance the development of these skills as the executive officer of a committee formed to refine RAF operational  research. He also created an advisory group consisting of RE8’s scientific advisors and officers to provide advice on bombing techniques and expected results. The air staff, Bomber Command, and 8th Air Force valued RE& nrodiucts and sed them extensively 25  Page 122 of 423 31%  PEs ee ee ee Sy eo eee eee Oe ee ae a eS eee ee eee eee ee ee es eee eS eee ee ee eee ee Se ee oe increasingly severe damage. By the time the dust settled and the fires went out, nearly 2,300 buildings had been des