or to destroy freight cars and locomotives, but to reduce the rail capacity to the Eastern Front to the point where the enemy is no longer able to supply his troops opposing the Russian Army.”18° The heavy-bomber raids that followed in summer and early fall 1944 accomplished exactly this, illustrating again the vital interactions between forward-looking intelligence and good operations plans, and the complementary na- ture of transportation and oil attacks.182  As the cataclysm in the Balkans and the east unfolded, ever more severe fuel shortages plagued the Luftwaffe, which had received almost no new aviation fuel since August. An 18 November order to all Luftflotten forbade night ground-attack sorties, bombing missions, and transport missions except to isolated fortresses, and permitted only twenty V-1 launches at a time. Operations took place only if weather and tactical considerations made success likely.188 This order brings home just how absent the Luftwaffe had become, even on the Eastern Front.  On 21 November, all logistics units received an order to prevent fuel losses. Trains were to be loaded and dispatched with maximum speed, traveling at half capacity with a maximum load of 225 tons, and brought up to the point where a ban on rail traffic, as a result of air attacks, was in force. Until they could be sent forward or their contents offloaded at depots, the trains’ crews were to disperse tanker cars at small train stations and camouflage them. Whenever possible, they stored fuel in tunnels. Only as much aviation fuel as necessary for combat operations went to airfields.182 Of course, the intercepted order also told intelligence officers how the Germans hid their tanker cars, which then came in for even heavier attacks.  And then there was the continuing saga of Panzer Lehr. During this division’s refitting in November, there was no fuel for maneuvers. New recruits, most of whom had never driven a tank or truck, had almost no training before they went int