included electrical power, transportation, and fuel.22 However, as Peter Faber noted, “Unfortunately—and despite the genuine belief by bomber enthusiasts that the Air Corps had the minimum skills and technology needed to meet .. . [their] . . . targeting requirements—the strategic intelligence on which proper targeting depended was still an infant art.”24 Airmen did almost nothing to develop operational targeting and damage-assessment capabilities. In this sense, the ACTS “zealots” were lineal descendants of Douhet, who said practically nothing about assessing effects and effectiveness. In fact, they placed too much faith in technology as an enabler for air warfare, a blind faith leading them to view technology itself—the B-17 and the Norden bombsight—as a panacea that would make bombing a “frictionless” activity sure to succeed. It is therefore not surprising that air intelligence received so little attention at the time. This was the greatest weakness in the American approach to aerial bombardment.2*  British Doctrine Developments  As the Americans wrestled with doctrine, so did the British, producing two important documents, CD 22 and Air Publication (AP) 1300, as well as a host of minor ones, to guide the employment of air assets. Although the documents are somewhat Douhetian and Trenchardian in nature, they demonstrate awareness of several key requirements, including air superiority, proper concentration of bombers, and the equal importance of material destruction and morale effects. Given the concentration of industry and workers in urban areas, cities became key targets. In a prescient passage, Air Ministry Operations Manual 58 foresaw the use of night raids as a means of keeping losses within acceptable limits. British doctrine also emphasized joint warfare, providing details on the ways in which aircraft should support navies and armies. Finally, there were references to “precision” bombing. Consequently, and despite the fact that Trenchardian thinking domi