cked oil plant at Wesseling for parts. Also, ACIU photointerpreters noted “Gelsenkirchen-Nordstern and Ludwigshafen were abandoned.”®= Even more important was the Soviet winter offensive, which, the CSTC said,  is of great significance to the oil offensive. In the first place it will inevitably increase the enemy’s minimum requirements of POL [petroleum, oil, and lubricants] by a substantial percentage at a time when his production has suffered fresh blows and may make it impossible for the enemy again to build up reserves from his current production for offensive purposes, as in the autumn. In  Page 312 of 423 73%  —— a ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee oe ee ee ee ee ne ee from oil plants and refineries to troops on the line. This included all fuel in circulation and was the minimum needed to keep combat units supplied. About 10 percent of all fuel was in transport at any given time, making fuel supplies susceptible to transportation attacks. As a United States Strategic Bombing Survey study noted, “The bombing of oil targets was concomitant with the attacks on transport in bringing about a paralysis of the German logistics system. This blocking of logistic circulation, together with the draining through battle wastage of the supplies remaining in the system, was the immediate cause of the collapse of the German armies at the time it occurred.” This passage referred to the collapse of German armies in spring 1945, but similar collapses occurred in Nor- mandy, on the retreat from France, during the Red Army’s summer offensive, late in the Ardennes offensive, and with particular force when the Russian winter offensive began in January 1945.  Finishing Off German Oil and Fuel Production  As this cataclysm enveloped German armies in the east, Bottomley and Spaatz issued their third and final bombing directive. It again placed emphasis on the destruction of oil plants and of depots known to store large quantities of fuel.62 This order coincided with two weeks of good weather, wh