d as the war continued. Improvements here were twofold. First, photographic personnel learned to mount cameras on aircraft, maintain them between missions, remove plates or film without causing damage, and develop photographs. Second was the emergence of a new kind of specialist, the branch intelligence officer, who emerged in Anglo-American units in late 1917. They were generalists trained to understand and use all available intelligence sources, and although they were not photointerpreters, these officers had a basic understanding of photointelligence and its value to the damage-assessment process.  Organizational challenges also emerged along with new air intelligence requirements. In the case of the RAF’s newly created Air Ministry and the American Expeditionary Force’s air staff, these included convoluted reporting chains and competition between offices in the ministry, which impeded the evolution and the effectiveness of intelligence organizations at all echelons.  Key to the development of air intelligence organizations, however, was the emergence of a unique combination of technology, technicians, training, and organizational structures, but also two other crucial elements: experience and guidance. With one exception—Royal Naval Air Service (RNAS) raids against U-boat bases along the Belgian coast and zeppelin factories in western Germany—little experience existed until 1917-1918. Bombing was too new, the technologies involved too rudimentary, and nobody had practiced anything recognizable as air intelligence. Artillery damage assess- ments provided a start, but nothing more.  During the war’s first year, bombing consisted largely of uncoordinated, opportunistic attacks by aircrews flying reconnaissance missions. These consisted of lobbing a grenade or modified artillery projectile over the side of the aircraft in an effort to hit something. By November, reconnaissance aircraft carried one or more small bombs to attack targets of opportunity. However, the ab