authority to determine bombing effects. This was, unbelievably, the first direct reference anyone concerned with target selec- tion had yet made to damage assessment.22  In an effort to mollify both sides, the FCIAT proposed their reports contain only information on target sets and individual targets, which the Air Ministry would review to determine how practical the recommendations were and what their effects on German industry were likely to be. From there, the report would go to the Joint Planning Subcommittee, which would put it in final form and incorporate it into larger operations plans. Once again, the Air Ministry demurred, countering with a suggestion that the Subcommittee on Economic Pressure choose vital target systems to be attacked. with an Air Ministrv official choosing the actual targets in coniunction with the ITC and the other service denartments. This effectivelv nlaced the FCTAT outside the decision loon and made it  Page 65 of 423 17%  or dislocation of which the government considers would contribute towards the attainment of the national aim. ~ Accordingly, the COs told the FC! to develop target intelligence to support tnis larger effort. The Committee of Imperial Defence approved these recommendations on 30 January 1936 and increased funding for service intelligence directorates. The “national aim” referred to here was not specified, but given recent British experience in the Great War, it was clearly related to the question of bringing enemies to the negotiating table by means of concerted attacks on the economic foundations of their national power rather than by grappling with their armies. In short, airpower was viewed during the late interwar period, at least by some, as a complement to naval blockade, a substitute for committing another army to the Continent, and a weapon to hinder a German advance into the Low Countries.  Beyond simply recommending the FCI be charged with developing target intelligence, the DCOS also enlarged the functio