cessful invasion. Finally—and here Spaatz was absolutely right— he argued that raids on marshaling yards would not bring up German fighters, whereas attacks on oil would. He thus appealed to Tedder’s opening remarks confirming attacks on the Luftwaffe as the most important effort. This element of his argument had a telling influence on Eisenhower and all assembled.®*  Despite his strong advocacy for continuing attacks on the Luftwaffe, Spaatz missed two key opportunities to sway the decision further in his favor. Although the various oil committees had a good idea of German fuel stockpiles, the EOU team did not press Spaatz to make full use of this vital intelligence. Consequently, General Anderson, Spaatz’s director for operations, admitted that USSTAF “could not guarantee that the attacks of oil targets would have an appreciable effect during the initial stages of OVERLORD,” but that they would have dramatic effects later. Had Eisenhower authorized subsidiary oil attacks to begin immediately, instead of nearly two months later, the effects would have been dramatic by 6 June 1944. As it turned out, oil raids, when they started on 12 May 1944, had an immediate and catastrophic impact on the Luftwaffe, and a more gradual but no less decisive impact on the German army.  Spaatz’s second major error was to avoid mentioning that his plan in fact had another key component: the EOU proposal for attacks on bridges, road and rail junctions, and supply dumps—especially fuel and ammunition depots. Spaatz’s reasoning for choosing to forego support of this plan—and associated attacks that proved vital in combination with transportation and oil attacks—is not some- thing he put on paper.&2  However, Rostow, then of the EOU, gleaned several reasons from discussions he and the rest of the team had with Spaatz. First, despite the compelling nature of the intelligence backing attacks on bridges and key junctions, Spaatz thought bringing this up could swing the argument in his favor b