overed. Fritz Knickenberg, chief inspector of the Hamm railway district, said the 22 April raid was the worst of the war, blanketing the facility with 1,251 craters. No trains moved for two days, and traffic was 8 percent of normal a week later. He said, “On a normal day we handled 7,000 to 10,000 trucks; 70 or 80 passenger trains went through in both directions in twenty-four hours. After the April raid we were glad to get six or seven trains through after 5,000 men had been busy day and night for forty-eight hours. To return to anything like a timetable meant continuous work for 4 weeks.”142 The raid destroyed the engine shed, a control tower, and many wagons. Some of these, loaded with ammunition, caused huge secondary explosions and fires.44  It quickly became obvious that bombing was producing major effects. Less clear was its effectiveness in terms of interdicting the movement of German reinforcements and supplies. In the press of events, people sometimes forgot Zuckerman’s caveat: transportation attacks would not produce major effects for several weeks, and they would act in concert with medium and fighter-bomber oper- ations along with SAS/Maquis missions.142  Despite these concerns, copious intelligence indicated how severely pre-OVERLORD attacks impeded rail movements. In January, there were already 347 trains held up in French marshaling yards awaiting locomotives. Each had sixty to ninety wagons, meaning there were 21,000-31,500 wagons sitting idle. Once attacks began, idled trains increased in number as locomotives were wrecked. This made raids even more devastating as they destroyed thousands of wagons on sidings.14&  By now, SHAEF’s Intelligence Operations Section was producing reports for individual rail centers, which showed increasingly severe and permanent damage. Along with ACIU K and F reports, these products were building blocks for third-phase RRS assessments. They included a description of the marshaling yard and key facilities, dates of atta