ions, and the discussions generating them, is that the British were already focused on city bombing. Yet they continued to think seriously about the effects of various munitions against oil plants, marshaling yards, and other precision targets on which attacks had been abandoned as impracticable in early 1941 and would not come under heavy attack until 1944. In the case of oil plants, many of Germany’s largest synthetic-oil producers were outside of urban areas and could not have been struck serendipitously during city raids. Destroying them would require dedicated, concerted, and large-scale precision attacks. Clearly, British senior leaders never stopped believing that they would eventually have the means to destroy these high-value targets.  Political Impacts on Air Intelligence: U-Boat Raids  One thing even the 4,000-pound heavy-charge variant could not do, however, was penetrate the concrete U-boat shelters along the coast of France. Repeated attacks on the U-boat pens at Lorient, Brest, and elsewhere confirmed the invulnerability of the 11.5-foot-thick roofs. Even the best weapon then available in the American arsenal, the navy’s 1,600-pound AN-Mark 1 armor-piercing bomb, penetrated only 10.6 feet when dropped from 25,000 feet, which was too high for accurate bombing in any case. No British bombs could yet do the trick either.“ Even after the Germans doubled the thickness of their concrete pens to 23 feet, the bombing continued. Sadly, when that proved ineffective, the Allies simply decided to try to starve out the U-boat garrisons by leveling the surrounding towns, including Lorient, Brest, and St. Nazaire. Despite high civilian casualties and massive physical destruction, these extreme tactics proved utterly ineffectual.2® However, given the importance assigned to U-boat targets both before and after the combined bomber offensive directive of January 1943, bombers continued to attack these targets even after it became clear that doing so would yield no meani