tion that he was “not sure of the real vulnerability of the new synthetic oil plants,” if true, made Tedder one of the very few senior officers who had not read the detailed intelligence reports compiled on hydrogenation plants during the past three years. These would have left him in no doubt as to their vulnerability and the rapid decrease in fuel production likely to follow air attacks. It is almost impossible to believe that Tedder had not read them. Further, Tedder attacked the JIC report supporting the oil plan, saying it was based on unsubstantiated and invalid assumptions. This, too, was in error. The planning assumptions made full use of the entire intelligence organization’s expertise and proved correct.  To his credit, Tedder supported Spaatz’s request that Eisenhower allow a limited series of oil strikes to gauge their effectiveness. When he saw the damage assessments coming in after the opening raids, he threw his weight behind them, saying of the frenzied German response, “I suppose we’ll have to give the customer what he wants.”22 And to Tedder’s credit, he always stuck to the compelling arguments inherent in his own and Zuckerman’s plan. Lord Cherwell once asked him, “What all this nonsense is about bombing railroads.” Tedder simply replied, “What nonsense? I never believe in nonsense.” Still, Tedder seemed content during the preinvasion bombing debate to argue several indefensible points, and this misuse of intelligence at the 25 March 1944 meeting was one of the few disappointing actions on the part of an outstanding—and upstanding—airman.  The only other area in which Zuckerman and Tedder should come in for criticism regarding their use of intelligence is their deprecation of bridge attacks. Tedder mentioned bridge attacks only rarely, and then in passing, throughout his otherwise voluminous memoir. A brief reference does end on a positive note based on the outcome of these important attacks, but Tedder’s virtual silence throughout his memoir is t