argets, resulting in a very effective weapon. And in an unprecedented move, they asked the Air Ministry’s director of intelligence for targeting information and data on German bombs. This may have had to do with the fact that the director had finally joined the Bombing Committee as a permanent member. At the subcommittee’s second meeting on 6 July 1938, members discussed German inland waterways and agreed on the following attack priorities: reservoirs serving canals, canal banks, aqueducts, and lock gates. This, however, marked the end of the road for the subcom- mittee, which was subsumed by the Bombing Committee. Fortunately, its functions—picking and prioritizing targets—continued in coordination with the Air Ministry Air Targets Section.14  Ina related development, the air staff worked on bombing doctrine, a function it later performed in coordination with the BDU, and determined two types of targets presented themselves for attack: precise targets and target groups. Attacking the former required highly skilled crews capable of precision bombardment, while the latter could be struck en masse with area attacks. The air staff hit upon an interesting solution to this problem that would have significant ramifications for bombing operations during the Second World War. They decided to train 25 percent of Bomber Command’s crews to high standards for attacks on precise targets, while other crews received training adequate for area bombing. Unfortunately, they decided to train elite crews to bomb precise targets from low altitudes on the basis of the flawed assumption that the crews could underfly most antiaircraft artillery and fighter aircraft. Ironically, a month later, the RAF’s deputy director of operations proposed the opposite course: “Ideal bombing tactics,” he said, “are to bomb from the highest possible height in order to keep out of range of anti-aircraft defences.”14 He then proposed bombing tests from 25,000 and 40,000 feet. Bureaucratic inertia and the lac