n and campaign were unrelated to facts or practical possibilities, he was decidedly wrong. His effort to discredit the 1944-1945 oil campaign by pointing to its predecessor—as Tedder had done during the pre-ovERLORD debates—was a gross error in logic and judgment.  Portal’s reply, dated 20 January 1945, expressed regret that he had failed to win Harris over. The Germans, he said, were short of oil, and current production forecasts fell short of estimated requirements for even a static defense. Further, the Russian advance indicated there would be even more serious fuel shortages and German defeats there, both of which proved true. Although only 13 percent of Bomber Command’s effort went against oil targets during the last four months of 1944, Portal admitted he was happy with the results.  Portal then essentially gave up, conceding the argument about panacea targets was not worth pursuing further. He and Harris simply had to agree to disagree. Portal recognized the value of city attacks but said they could not have been decisive without a much larger heavy-bomber force earlier in the war. On the other hand, oil provided a target system that, if successfully attacked, could mean an early end to the war. In Portal’s opinion, Harris regarded the oil plan as having failed because the war continued. This, he said, was a false assumption. The oil plan, he rightly noted, had succeeded as soon as oil shortages began impeding German resistance to Allied offensives in the east and west—immediately for the Luftwaffe and slightly later for the German army.4“&  Portal concluded with an assurance that he had always known Harris to be loyal, and that  I willingly accept your assurance that you will continue to do your utmost to ensure the successful execution of the policy laid down. I am very sorry that you do not believe in it but it is no use my craving for what is evidently unattainable. We must wait until after the end of the war before we can know for certain who was right a