largely to guesswork, unless reconnaissance Spitfires, still few in number, obtained poststrike cover. Here again, dissipation of bombing effort proved problematic because the sixteen Spitfires then in service could not possibly cover all targets struck.  Still, it gradually became obvious that most aircrews were not putting bombs anywhere near their targets. On New Year’s Day, 1941, Dewdney sent Air Chief Marshal Peirse a discouraging note about the effects of raids on oil targets. “Both P.I.U. and ourselves,” Dewdney said, “therefore agree that only minor damage is visible at Scholven and Gelsenkirchen. ... These disappointing results are unexpected since Scholven and Gelsenkirchen are the two synthetic oil plants most heavily attacked to date.”®4 Dewdney had previously assessed Scholven at 40 percent damaged and Gelsenkirchen at 10 percent. Both these figures were too optimistic, the one for Scholven wildly so. Dewdney concluded somberly that “from the photographs it is evident that a large proportion of the bombs reported as having been dropped over the targets were in fact dropped elsewhere.”®= Dewdney did not quantify what “elsewhere” meant, but as the Butt report showed eight months later, it meant 1 to 8 miles from the target, with 80 percent of all aircrews dropping bombs over 5 miles away. The point here is not that the raids did nothing—in several cases they did moderate damage—but that they were made by small numbers of aircraft, not repeated with any regularity, and in most cases missed, with bombs landing on decoys or in the countryside.2*  Photointerpreters also missed some basic things at this stage. For instance, the Germans routinely shut down their oil and other industrial plants after air raids to assess damage and clean up flammable-liquid spills. This was standard practice even if it was thought that no damage had occurred. British photointerpreters, who took plant shutdowns as a sign of serious damage, did not dis- cover their error until 1942