this subject may in future be tempered with more discretion whenever targets of a like nature are urged upon us by the Ministry of Economic Warfare.”8° He then concluded: “I trust that the MEW will be called upon to account for their overweening enthusiasm over the enemy’s ball bearing position, in view of their calculations as to the effects already achieved at so heavy a cost in life and effort.”®2  Thus, the British did not join the attack on ball bearings in August and October 1943. And while American accuracy might have been quite good, losses were excessive; and a period of bad weather lasting until early January 1944 gave 8th Air Force a rationale to stand down and await the arrival of fighter escorts with drop tanks. Nonetheless, the USAAF had set a precedent. With good weather, American bombers could do very serious damage to targets deep within the Reich. They would return with a vengeance in January and February 1944, and every month thereafter, to prove this again. These efforts set off a second round of large-scale dispersal of German industries.  re ne OR  German Dispersal of War Industries: Known and Hidden Costs  This second dispersal had dramatic effects on German combat power, which did not become entirely clear until early 1945. These impacts were described most clearly by Oberstleutnant Kogler, who before his capture in January 1945 was an FW 190 pilot and a commander of Jagdgeschwader 6.88 Kogler emphasized the profoundly negative effects of dispersed aircraft production on operational capabilities. Because each small factory produced only one or two components, often under poor conditions, and often with poorly trained and unmotivated forced laborers, the quality of parts was low and their failure rate high. Even worse, components had to be shipped to a central assembly point and put together without an effective quality control process. As Kogler said, “It was a Sisyphean task, which had now become necessary.”22 He continued:  Then came the da