n 15 September. Control of heavy bombers reverted from Eisenhower to Portal and Arnold, who delegated executive authority to Air Marshal Norman Bottomley, the RAF’s deputy chief of air staff, and Spaatz. The Tactical Air Forces, although not subject to this realignment, continued making major contributions to the oil offensive with attacks on smaller refineries, benzol plants, and depots. The Combined Bomber Offensive mission statement now read: “The overall mission of the Strategic Air Forces is the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic systems and the direct support of land and naval forces.” Any reference to morale was gone. The CCS also said heavy bombers were to support the Red Army’s advance whenever possible.1°8 The follow-on directive, from Bottomley and Spaatz, gave German oil and transportation assets high- est priority1&  Bufton, Portal’s close advisor, and Spaatz also made sure their message stayed loud and clear: keep after oil. The Ruhr had 43 percent of synthetic oil production and two-thirds of benzol production. It was also close to the front, meaning fuel reached combat units with minimum transportation requirements. Bufton said Bomber Command attacks against these targets must continue. Spaatz told Lieutenant General Doolittle and Major General Twining, the 8th and 15th Air Force commanders, to keep attacking oil, even in bad weather. Without concerted attacks, oil production would rebound from 25 percent of the preattack level in September to 42 percent by November.¥2  Spaatz’s order was made more urgent by the many Ultra intercepts and POW interrogations highlighting the operational cataclysm befalling the Wehrmacht on every front and the equally clear indications of all-out German repair efforts. A JOTC bulletin published at the beginning of October noted, “abundant and increasing evidence that this low level of [fuel] production is causing a crip- pling restriction of enemy’s operational activi