the chaos caused by the raids. An ACIU K report and poststrike photos of Dresden confirmed severe damage to the main rail center, which was heavily loaded with locomotives and railcars. Many fires were burning there, in neighboring industrial concerns, and among adjacent areas of petroleum, oil, and lubricants (POL) storage. Trains loaded with tanks and other vehicles had been heavily hit and were clearly visible in the photos. The roundhouse and central goods depot were destroyed, as were hundreds of railcars.22  Brigadier General McDonald, the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe (USSTAF) A-2, summed up the reasons for these raids:  The chief current target importance of these towns lies in their railway facilities. The Russian offensive has necessitated a tremendous movement of troops and supplies to the line of the Oder. At the same time the panic evacuation of civilians from the areas threatened by the Russians and the attempts by the enemy to rescue industrial equipment and machinery from the threatened areas had created a heavy traffic demand movement in the opposite direction. As a result rail activity in the whole area behind the front is intense.2®  McDonald noted the importance of Dresden and Chemnitz in particular as waypoints for the movement of German reinforcements to the east. They also housed fuel and ammunition. From the standpoint of military necessity, these raids, although brutal, appeared justified to a number of Allied airmen. However, Churchill, the War Cabinet, Stimson, and Arnold all voiced concerns about the raids, wondering aloud whether their brutal effects could outweigh the real but limited military results thus obtained. Lieutenant Colonel Powell also said:  I have a correspondence file on Dresden, containing letters from some Americans who were in a position to know about the attacks: General Eaker, Robert Lovett, and John McCloy. All of these understood that the Allies simply bowed to persistent Soviet pressure. In theory, I