change detection. By looking at the same installation over a period of months, interpreters detected minute changes, some of which pointed to developments of great significance.  Page 78 of 423 21%  “ores Om and damage-assessment efforts, both of which involved first-, second-, and third-phase interpretation. The first phase was conducted at PRU1 and PRU3 by photointerpreters stationed at those two photoreconnaissance units. They completed a rapid interpretation of all photographs from each sortie and sent key findings via teletype to CIU, Bomber Command, Air Ministry, and other interested parties within two hours of receipt of the photos, followed by courier delivery of their annotated photographs and textual reports. This first-phase effort was restricted to “that information which might have an influence on the day to day conduct of the war.” An example Hemming gave Cabell was the movement of barges between the English Channel ports, an important event in 1940 that might have presaged a German invasion. Similarly, photointerpreters at PRU3, who studied aerial photographs taken by the unit’s photoreconnaissance aircraft after Bomber Command raids, were re- sponsible for providing immediate damage assessments.  Once first-phase reports were completed, second-phase interpretation, completed in twenty-four hours, occurred at the CIU and included more detailed interpretation. During this phase, expert photointerpreters in each subfield of their business, whether interpreting airfields or oil plants or conducting detailed damage assessments, took the time needed to tease out all the information each aerial photograph had to offer.  Finally, Cabell said, third-phase interpretation consisted of special and detailed studies of some aspect of the German war economy or military forces, produced by experts in the field, with limited distribution for strategic assessment and planning purposes. For example, MEW produced reports quarterly, semiannually, and annually on bombing’