ars accumulated every time a bombing raid destroyed houses and factories. The failure to detect large-scale movements of skilled German workers and their families to dispersed factories and the importation of forced labor into the cities to carry on repair work and production at remaining plants was a significant oversight. Thus, despite all the work RE8 put into them, figures on lost man-hours remained imprecise.  Another problem stemmed from the fact that Bomber Command reports were concerned with lost man-hours of labor but also placed heavy emphasis on the destruction of cities and buildings. One such study, produced in November 1943, noted that the total area destroyed in raids on the 38 largest German cities was 84,848 acres (32.5 square miles), or 25.5 percent of their built-up areas.18 Aside from the fact that such figures said nothing about will and ability to continue fighting, they seemed to become, at times, an end in themselves.  Despite the heavy damage done by the Ruhr raids, there were no signs of German capitulation, which led Harris to commit his command to destroying Berlin. He believed the capital of the Reich, with its 3 million inhabitants, large marshaling yards, and 196 major factories, held the key to compelling the Nazi leadership to sue for peace. With the severe damage already done to cities in the Ruhr and elsewhere, Harris believed an all-out effort against Berlin would do the trick.1® Harris, appealing for American support, which was not forthcoming, said, “We can wreck Berlin from end to end ifthe U.S.A.A.F. will come in on it. It will cost between 400-500 aircraft. It will cost Germany the war.”2° A month later, as aircraft and crews sustained unprecedented losses and air defenses forced bombers to altitudes above those at which Stirlings could fly, Harris went so far as to claim that Lancasters by themselves could inflict “a state of devastation in which surrender is inevitable” by 1 April 1944.21 As Germany’s continued resistance c