offensive. They did not capture any. Because units had so little fuel and had to advance over muddy or snow-covered terrain, which drove up gasoline use alarmingly, they could hardly maneuver. We have seen how this affected Panzer Lehr. Another division refitting before the offensive had similar problems. A prisoner from this unit said there had been no gasoline at all before moving to the railroad station to entrain for the Ardennes offensive. Each vehicle had just 5 liters (1.32 gallons) of fuel. Consequently, over half the division’s vehicles ran out of fuel before reaching the train station and had to be towed the rest of the way by wreckers. Many half-tracks and trucks, just delivered from the factories, broke down and needed complete overhauls, or had to be scrapped entirely, because the fuel allocation was insufficient to run in their engines.2%  In the meantime, heavy divisions in the east—which outnumbered those in the west three to one—had to make due, as did units in Italy, with the other half of November-December production.2% Consequently, they could not rebuild fuel reserves and had far too little gasoline once the Russian winter offensive began. Bombing thus held fuel production at a level low enough to derail the Ardennes offensive and deny divisions in the east an opportunity to rebuild reserves. This combined with an ineffective German logistical system to create disastrous fuel shortages on the Eastern Front by September 1944.  The oil offensive, like the pre-OVERLORD transportation offensive, proved essential in speeding Allied victory by robbing the Wehrmacht of its ability to concentrate, maneuver, or engage in sustained periods of high-intensity combat. Air intelligence was at the center of this momentous victory and would be once again during the impending transportation offensive against the Reich itself.  Page 288 of 423 68%  ee eee eee ee ae eee ee ee ee eee eee ee ae ee Oe ee ee  war surveys./% In addition, earlier production estimates pr