ffensive functions. The object of a photographic study is to make a complete and accurate map of the trenches and obstacles totally demolished, those partially demolished and those remaining intact.2®  These criteria were similar to those employed by Allied organizations, including the U.S. Strategic Air Forces in Europe, Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces, and the Railway Targets Committee (RTC), two decades later in their efforts to describe bomb damage to various targets. For comparative purposes, here are abbreviated versions of the RTC criteria:  (A) Damaged to such an extent that no future strategic attacks required. (B) Severe damage, but some vital installations intact. (C) Attacked, but little or no material damage.22  Despite some differences, the methodologies were similar and the processes for making judgments about target status heavily reliant on photointerpretation. In fact, the document emphasized, “The value of aerial photographs depends directly on the... training and experience... . [of] the persons making use of them.”28 One particularly intriguing insight was the importance of aerial photographs for change detection as it applied to friendly road traffic. Overhead views of heavily traveled roads could prevent traffic jams and enable traffic dispatchers to utilize roads to the fullest extent.22 Intel- ligence specialists applied this same kind of detailed traffic analysis with lethal effect against German rail, barge, and road traffic during the Second World War.  These insights received further attention in a 1928 ACTS lesson plan with four topics: cameras, films, aerial photographs, and employment of aerial photographs. It said automatic cameras could carry rolls of film with 75 to 100 exposures each, which produced 7” x 9.5” prints of excellent quality. In addition, it was possible to deliver finished pictures in ten minutes after exposure since the film could be developed onboard the aircraft, in a miniature darkroom, and the pi