on raids beginning in August 1942. This skill proved vital once the bombing effort moved away from city attacks toward a renewed focus on specific target sets, including oil and transportation, in 1944-1945. This effort also resulted in the development of new bombs, fuses, and delivery techniques, all of which led to steadily greater bombing effects.  Munitions Developments and Effectiveness Assessments  Efforts to develop effective bombs accelerated in late 1940, as evidence surfaced in damage assessments that 250-pound bombs were ineffective against reinforced concrete structures.®= In September 1940, Bomber Command aircrews dropped 1,903 500-pound bombs and 15,168 250-pound bombs.*£ Even Churchill took an interest, pushing for development of larger munitions. Churchill’s private secretary, R. S. Crawford, told Portal that “there has been considerable discussion on a high level with the Prime Minister regarding the use of large bombs including the 1000-Ib. bomb.”® The chief re- plied that there were 190 of the new 1,000-pound bombs filled and ready to drop.®®  However, because of the slow start in manufacturing 1,000-pound bombs, the British had to turn to the United States as production ramped up. Tests of American bombs revealed that the addition of British nose and tail fuses made them effective against hardened structures.®? Nonetheless, several officers noted that the move toward the 1,000-pound variety by no means meant that the 500- pound bomb was of diminished value. It was large enough to do serious damage, and in certain instances, including attacks on oil refineries, it proved superior.7°  At a meeting in December 1940 to discuss problems relating to bombs and fuses, attendees agreed that a major shortcoming was the fact that they had predominantly hard-case bombs at the start of the war. The charge-toweight ratio of these weapons was only 27 percent, the lowest of all bombs in use by the world’s major air forces. This resulted in a proposal, adopted un