on the ground floors of bomb-damaged buildings. Allied photointerpreters got better at spotting the telltale signs of such activities, but the Germans stole many a march on them in this fashion. Fourth was the phenomenon of “invisible damage.” Fifth, and most important, was the maddening inability to determine with any precision how morale fit into the larger bombing-effective- ness picture.  Despite these shortcomings, the process intelligence specialists used to determine damage to the German war effort ultimately paid huge dividends because it forced them to become experts in the art of assessing damage not only to cities, but also to every component part of cities. In other words, every oil plant, marshaling yard, viaduct, bridge, canal, arms factory, and steel mill hit in the course of Bomber Command’s 1942-1943 city offensive received detailed damage assessments at the CIU, RE8, and MEW. The British also carried out a significant number of precision attacks during this period, although we tend to forget this, which lent themselves to detailed interpretation of specific facilities, as did American precision raids beginning in August 1942. This skill proved vital once the bombing effort moved away from city attacks toward a renewed focus on specific target sets, including oil and transportation, in 1944-1945. This effort also resulted in the development of new bombs, fuses, and delivery techniques, all of which led to steadily greater bombing effects.  Munitions Developments and Effectiveness Assessments  Efforts to develop effective bombs accelerated in late 1940, as evidence surfaced in damage assessments that 250-pound bombs were ineffective against reinforced concrete structures.© In September 1940, Bomber Command aircrews dropped 1,903 500-pound bombs and 15,168 250-pound bombs.® Even Churchill took an interest, pushing for development of larger munitions. Churchill's private secretary, R. S. Crawford, told Portal that “there has been considerable discussio