eet from the target. Early 1941 also produced an operational crisis as aircrews struggled to learn better navigation techniques and waited for the promised “heavies”: four-engine bombers, the first of which, the Short Stirling I, arrived in summer 1941. Tactical problems abounded. Although doctrine still called for daylight bombing, day raids had all but ceased by 1941. Aircrews flew more night raids, at first hoping vainly to conduct “precision” attacks, and then turned to city raids. All the while, intelligence capabilities evolved to assess the effects of these new tactics, but with city bombing, their efficacy ran into ser- ious and often insurmountable obstacles.+  By January 1941, the Chiefs of Staff (COS) were alarmed at a dissipation of effort in Bomber Command. On the basis of recommendations in the 5th Report of the Lloyd committee, the COS argued in favor of an air offensive against oil, or, alternatively, city bombing. Emphasizing a need for the “greatest possible economy of force” given the scarcity of bombers, they supported concerted oil raids. On the basis of Lloyd committee and Joint Intelligence Subcommittee analyses pointing to oil as the critical target set, the COS believed attacks on the seventeen largest oil plants would pay the great- est dividends and might reduce German oil production by 83 percent after four months.?  The chiefs called for immediate oil raids to take advantage of the long winter nights but hedged their bets by proposing a secondary target: morale. They said oil attacks would have some effect on morale simply because some plants were in or near urban areas, which meant stray bombs could strike residential areas. Further, they said all bombers were to have alternate targets in urban areas, in- cluding industries and marshaling yards. Given the still-rudimentary state of navigation instruments and bombsights, these were de facto area targets.  The COS also mentioned another means of getting at German oil supplies: an attack o