-five aircraft carrying 118 2,000-pound general-purpose bombs fused 1/10th second in the nose and 1/40th second in the tail. There were no hits but two near misses at one approach to the bridge. Although reconnaissance cover showed no damage, the bridge was seriously damaged. Shock waves and earth movement caused by near misses pushed the west abutment 13 inches to the east, shearing rivets anchoring the ends of the bridge and pushing them apart by 7 inches. Thus, the bridge would require major repairs before it could be used for fast and heavy traffic. Huge craters made by 2,000-pound bombs with this fuse combination—60 to 70 feet in diameter and 20 to 30 feet deep—also tore up tracks and grade around the bridge.152  There were three important lessons here. First, not all serious damage is visible, especially in vertical, as opposed to oblique, photographs. Second, effort required to fill in large craters and repair track had to be considered when making judgments about time requirements for bridge repairs. Third, watching traffic patterns closely after such an attack, whether by sending reconnaissance aircraft over the target to observe traffic visually, by analyzing vertical or oblique photos over a period of days, or by relying on special operations teams, would reveal whether there was hidden damage impeding use of the bridge.  Reports such as these went to the BAU and AEB, which quickly developed a close working relationship. Both evolved rapidly after their activation in August and together made up more than 200 personnel. BAU experts came from major intelligence organizations, including RE8, MEW, the RRS, and the ACIU. They composed a self-supporting, motorized unit with five detached parties for sur- veys. Group Captain E. S. D. Drury, chief armament officer for AEAF, commanded the BAU. Zuckerman was his scientific director.1®2  Page 233 of 423 57%  misses at one approach to the bridge. Although reconnaissance cover showed no damage, the bridge was seriousl