s as a huge improvement for damage assessments and that MEW could now express raid effects in terms of percentage loss of productivity for an entire city, and possibly to measure productivity losses for various industries therein. MEW would give Bomber Command Int. 1 figures showing the relative importance of industries in each city, total percentage of war effort represented by that city (expressed in MEW’s key point rating system), and losses due to bombing by industry type, city, and percentage of the Reich’s estimated war effort. Finally, upon receipt of RE8’s man-hour loss assessments, MEW would give Bomber Command Int. 1 the new, reduced percent- age figures for various industries and the town’s adjusted total contribution to the German war effort. MEW would also provide each city’s expected recovery time.  After attendees agreed on division of labor, they ironed out the details of the process for producing and updating Bomber Command’s damage dossiers. They settled on a ten-step process designed to be completed fourteen days after a given raid. It began with CIU’s K (Damage Assessment) Section. Each step took one or two days:  i as  . CIU K Section prepared the 1:5,000 scale prints with grid overlay. . CIU K Section noted building types damaged (residential, commercial, and industrial) and the cause of damage (blast, fire, or both) on the 1:5,000 maps. . CIU K Section prepared a detailed bomb plot showing all known bomb impacts in built-up areas of the city. . CIU K Section traced and measured areas of damage and noted the zone boundaries (dividing lines between residential, commercial, and industrial areas of the city) on the 1:5,000 scale photographs. 5. RE8 confirmed damage by building categories and type, placing all damage data on punch cards for future reference (an indication they were using early computers to do some of their dataprocessing and statistical work). 6. RE8 estimated damage to utilities. 7. RE8 made adjustments in damage estimates for clo