nt, and munitions effectiveness assessment, are central to the narrative. So are the thousands of men and women who brought these skills to a peak of effectiveness not since equaled even in the age of jet aircraft, reconnaissance satellites, cruise missiles, and smart bombs. These largely overlooked specialists, who assessed the effects of the hammer blows of bombing on the Nazi war machine and on the basis of those assessments advised commanders on the most effective use of their aircraft, played a vital role in speeding the victory over Germany. Unfortunately, only three chapters in a single book have even begun weaving together the ways in which they used sources and methods, comprising not only reconnaissance photos but also Ultra intercepts, lower-grade cipher systems, debriefings of refugees from the Continent, and several others, to advise commanders on optimum operational employment. Only a handful of other books discuss this effort in more than a cursory fashion.+  Air intelligence personnel orchestrated an effort that proved central to the Allied cause because it enabled commanders to direct their bombers against the most lucrative target sets. The two most important were German transportation assets in occupied Europe and the Reich itself—including railroads and inland waterways—and oil assets, which included crude oil refineries and the synthetic oil plants built during the 1930s and early 1940s. From the spring of 1944 to VE Day, air intelligence personnel helped convince commanders to stay focused on these target sets. When viewed in combination with the Allied ground effort, which profited greatly from these air campaigns, the results were impressive. The transportation and oil offensives starved the Germans of fuel and ammu- nition, making it impossible for them to concentrate and maneuver on a large scale.  By 1944, and even as early as 1942, the Allies had a highly capable and integrated network of intelligence organizations in place. With a few no