nable degree of success. Failure raises the enemy morale and correspondingly demoralizes the bombing force.  (3) Thorough preparation of all plans of employment must be judiciously made, as the ease with which it can be placed into operation subjects this arm to hasty and faulty employment.  (4) Bombing attacks must be thorough and carried to their completion. Complete destruction of targets must be accomplished and day and night bombing must be continuous until definitely terminated. Only by such means can the maximum amount of demoralization which bombing is capable of producing be obtained.  Page 42 of 423 12%  Gorrell's influence became evident in the Air Service’s first doctrinal manual on bombardment aviation, published in 1923 under direction of the Office of the Chief of Air Staff. It divided targets into three categories: naval forces, land forces, and assets in “the interior zone of the enemy.” Targets in the latter category included mobilization and training centers; transportation centers; bridges, dams, locks, power plants, and tunnels; war material depots; and industrial centers. “The attack of military objectives in the interior zones of the enemy,” the manual said, “provides a mission for bombardment aviation which cannot be performed by other combatant forces. The importance of such operations cannot be overestimated. ... Both day and night bombardment will be employed against these targets.”12  Equally noteworthy was an emphasis on air intelligence as the means for conducting targeting and damage assessment: “In each organization of a bombing force there will be a thorough and systematic method of collecting and disseminating all information which can be made of value. This function is performed in Air Service units by air intelligence sections.”14 This intelligence included the following categories:  (1) Location and military importance of bombardment objectives.  (2) The effects of bombardment raids on targets.  (3) The strength, disposition, and