hose at the 25 March 1944 meeting—a two- month gap from inception to approval.® The Air Ministry approved and told Leigh-Mallory future plans should be based on Zuckerman’s insights. Tedder’s role here was instrumental. His successful effort in February 1944 to convince Leigh-Mallory of the need for a Joint Planning Committee to develop an optimum transportation plan proved crucial. Members came from Bomber Command, US- STAE, the AEAEF, and every intelligence organization involved in providing planning insights. They were responsible for developing a plan based on the capabilities of available air assets.22  What began as a hopeful development soon degenerated into partisan bickering. Despite an initial consensus that the Zuckerman-Tedder plan held forth the best prospects for success, doubts crept in almost immediately. Just four days after the meeting establishing the Joint Planning Committee, Air Commodore Grant sent Bufton a note outlining his concerns. Grant, previously a strong supporter, opined that as a scheme for the destruction of railways, the plan was admirable. However, he doubted whether it could contribute effectively to OVERLORD. He said the original, modest plan had become so enlarged that the primary purpose had become submerged in the desire to create destruction. Given the inadequacies of the original AEAF plan from both an intelligence and operations perspective, this reaction is difficult to understand. Yet Grant was by no means alone.  Spaatz and Harris chimed in next. As we have seen, Spaatz put forth his competing oil plan while arguing that the overriding focus had to stay on the destruction of the Luftwaffe. Without air supremacy, OVERLORD might fail, and Spaatz’s plan took that into account with a continuing emphasis on POINTBLANK targets. Spaatz further stated that the transportation plan would achieve no worthwhile results. Even five weeks after the landings, he claimed, the Germans could satisfy their military rail requirements with on