garding the ways in which other countries’ economic vulnerabilities might be translated into military ones. This organization soon began an increasingly frequent correspondence with another coordinating body, the Industrial Intelligence in Foreign Countries Subcommittee (FCI), also founded by the Committee of Imperial Defence six years later, in 1929, but this time at the specific behest of the secretaries of state for war and air, who sought detailed insights on industrial mobilization in Germany and Italy. To do this effectively, the FCI leadership recognized that an economic intelligence team focused exclusively on these questions was indispensable. Accordingly, they established the IIC in 1931. The IIC worked increasingly closely with the Air Ministry’s Directorate of Intelligence to determine the German economy’s vulnerabilities to bombing. The obvious connections between economic intelligence and air intelligence, particularly relating to the vulnerabilities of an enemy’s war economy, made themselves felt throughout the growing intelligence community in the early 1930s. The fit between the two for air intelligence was not lost on those involved in discussions on cooperation and coordination during a future war, and engagement on these topics gathered momentum even though turf battles and bureaucratic inertia sometimes threatened to derail the process.  Although cooperation between these intelligence organizations was initially tentative, it had dramatic implications for the development of air and economic intelligence agencies during the Second World War. F. H. Hinsley and his coauthors, including air intelligence specialist Edward Thomas, emphasized this point at the start of their five-volume study of British wartime intelligence:  Page 56 of 423 18%  sance aircraft and cameras, despite the same report’s recommendation that a single aircraft capable of flying at very high altitude should play the long-range reconnaissance role.S° As Edward Leaf has noted, “I