ation of twenty-four-hour operations, with analysts and other technicians working twelve-hour shifts.2  When the Aircraft Operating Company came under Air Ministry control on 1 April 1940, its thirty-seven staff members were drafted into the RAF and amalgamated with A.I.1.(h), the small Air Ministry unit formed in March 1938 for detailed photointerpretation work. This new unit, the Photographic Interpretation Unit (PIU; later CIU), had an authorized strength of 189 and an actual strength of 133. It was briefly under the direct operational control of Air Ministry A.I.8, but when France fell and the threat of invasion became real, control was vested in RAF Coastal Command on 11 July 1940, a decision that made sense at the time but occasioned a bitter feud over operational control between Coastal and Bomber Commands as the latter’s operations eclipsed those of the former by mid-1941. Ultimately, the Air Ministry solved this problem by taking direct operational control once again in summer 1943.8 This was the first, but by no means the last, instance in which vested interests and agendas pulled air intelligence personnel and products in different directions, often to the detriment of the larger war effort.  Just before this realignment occurred, Squadron Leader P. J. A. Riddell, officer in charge of the Photographic Interpretation Section at HQ Bomber Command, reported for duty as the senior interpreter at the PIU. Riddell’s arrival in June 1940 marked the start of key improvements based on a proposal he submitted recommending changes to the unit, all of which the PIU’s commander, Wing Commander H. Hemming, and the Air Ministry put in place. They credited Riddell’s “comprehensive knowledge of interpretation and of Service practice and... his untiring and brilliant efforts” in developing a new PIU process, “which appears to give satisfaction to all those Service Departments making use of P.1.U.”2 Riddell’s brilliant work, now and throughout the war, was of vital importan