el in positions that best suited their talents. Third, they put them through a rigorous training program that included both formal training in the schoolhouse at Nuneham Common and on-the-job training at the CIU. British photointerpreters were not considered journeymen until they had completed a yearlong appren- ticeship with CIU veterans. Fourth, and most important, ACIU leadership held photointerpreters to the most rigorous standards while giving them the authority to make judgments about what they discovered in photos they studied. The ACIU hired archaeologists, geologists, botanists, painters and sculptors, photogrammetrists, photographers, town planners, and writers.1%  The Americans followed the British lead in hiring photointerpreters. An AAFAIS manual emphasized:  A good photo interpreter is an individual who has patience, a flair for detail and a highly retentive memory. He should be an inquisitive person and one who is not easily discouraged by lack of full success. ... The educational and civilian backgrounds that have been found most conducive to good interpretation are those of a scientific nature. Research-minded men and women have proven to be the most successful in this field. Extensive travel and a general knowledge of our economic world are important to the production of good photo interpreters. Certain fields of en- deavor that lend themselves to photo interpretation are these: Photogrammetry; Structural and Economic Geology; Industrial Architecture; Civil and Chemical Engineering; Soil Erosion Control and Forestry; and those biological fields that involve microscopic study.1%  There were dozens of people from artistic and creative fields on the AAFAIS faculty by February 1944, including photographers, biologists, anthropologists, geologists, architects, design studio experts, and construction engineers.1%  Americans also emulated the British when it came to photointerpreter apprenticeships. “After school training,” the AAFAIS manual said, “interp