e assessment. French planners and their British counterparts developed a target list, including steel furnaces and arms plants, and ranked them by their importance to the German war effort. They then ascertained whether each objective was in range and vulnerable. Finally, they assigned an order of priority on the basis of the feasibility of damaging or destroying each target.22 However, this first effort illustrated that target selection was only half the equation; the other half involved judging effects and effectiveness. The Allies were not prepared to do this in 1916.  The campaign began in summer 1916 and deteriorated rapidly due to high losses, aircraft shortages, and bad weather.*4 One of the biggest problems was the inability to get reliable damage reports. When bombers attacked enemy troop concentrations or artillery near the front, they usually did so in conjunction with friendly artillery barrages, and the results showed up on reconnaissance photos. However, once the Allies began bombing targets beyond the range of artillery, they had to rely on aircrew observations because ground commanders, who had tasking authority over observation squadrons, rarely allocated scarce reconnaissance assets to assess the effects of bombing missions, which most of them considered wasted effort. Intelligence officers therefore had to rely on aircrew reports until November 1917, when one British bomber per squadron began carrying a camera to record results.22  A British raid by No. 3 Wing of the RNAS on the Mauser arms factory at Oberndorf on 12 October 1916 was typical. Aircrews briefed “unreported results,” British and German communiqués and press reports were naturally at odds with one another regarding damage, and there was no poststrike reconnaissance. The only bright spot was a report provided by an escaped French POW working at the plant during the raid, which said damage was “much more considerable than first reported, [with] the new Works which prisoners were buildin