casualties per month during the last four months of the war, while the Allies suffered about 50,000 per month. Had the war continued another three months, the Grand Alliance could therefore have suffered over a million additional casualties. This brings us to the other key question regarding the role of bombing: how much sooner did the war end as a result of the transportation and oil campaigns? There is no obvious answer, but if the air intelligence effort had been flawed and bombers sent against less lucrative targets, the Germans could have resisted for perhaps another three or four months. Had they received even marginally adequate fuel and ammunition supplies, they could have engaged in some semb- lance of maneuver warfare, slowing their adversaries’ advance.  A reasonable estimate, then, for the degree to which oil and transportation attacks shortened the war and reduced Allied casualty lists is three to four months and 1,050,000 men killed or wounded. The bomber was not a war-winning weapon—nor was it viewed as such by most air and ground commanders—but it made the armies’ jobs arguably shorter and less costly than would otherwise have been the case. Air intelligence, and in particular precise damage assessments, proved central to this success.  Jointness (Army Support), Analytical Prowess, and the Interagency  However, it is important to recognize that as the use of air intelligence and airpower became more effective, so too did Allied and Soviet armies. We must not forget that, in the final analysis, they won the war by outfighting the Wehrmacht and liberating Europe. The point of this work has never been to obscure this fact, but rather to illustrate the degree to which air intelligence and airpower assisted.  Viewed in this light, the transportation offensive in France and Belgium, and the one against the Reich, were the most important of their kind. Planned and executed with the advance of Allied armies in mind, the latter was also designed to enhance th