upplies of fuel and ammunition became unreliable. Nonetheless, he said the effort had been a “partial failure” because German units could still move and fight, even if in a degraded fashion. His analysis emphasized that concerted attacks against marshaling yards caused severe damage to key components such as locomotive repair depots and roundhouses. They overwhelmed repair crews, forcing them to prioritize their work, making rail yards unusable or nearly so for days or weeks. Zuckerman also counseled patience, stating that attempts to achieve immediate dislocation of rail traffic would fail. On the other hand, he said neither rail lines nor bridges presented lucrative targets. The former were too easily repaired, the latter too difficult to hit with any regularity. These last assertions were decidedly wrong, but Zuckerman otherwise proved correct.1%  Zuckerman had a wealth of Italian sources. Among these was General di Raimondo, director of Italian military transportation, who said attacks on marshaling yards “had been most successful and had seriously delayed rail traffic.”+£ From January to September 1943, Allied bombers had destroyed 30,000 wagons and 500 locomotives. He also noted that the major railroad bridge at Bolzano, which had been seriously damaged, was repaired within forty hours. Zuckerman evidently took this to mean that railroad bridges could be repaired quickly enough to forestall major delays. Spaatz drew the opposite conclusion, looking to the day when bombers and fighterbombers could attack bridges several times a day to keep them out of commission, making repair times less important.  As Zuckerman recognized, the limiting factor was Italy’s geography, which allowed the Germans to conduct an effective defense with limited manpower and logistical support, and provided little maneuver room for Allied armies. The effects of bombing rail centers were significant, but their effectiveness was limited because the Germans could always get adequate supplie