1944 meeting was one of the few disappointing actions on the part of an outstanding—and upstanding—airman.  The only other area in which Zuckerman and Tedder should come in for criticism regarding their use of intelligence is their deprecation of bridge attacks. Tedder mentioned bridge attacks only rarely, and then in passing, throughout his otherwise voluminous memoir. A brief reference does end on a positive note based on the outcome of these important attacks, but Tedder’s virtual silence throughout his memoir is telling.** Tedder said he saw no value in substituting bridges for marshaling yards (he said nothing of their complementarity). His argument hinged on two points, both incorrect. First, he said, the Germans would repair bridges within fourteen days, meaning if bridge attacks occurred, they had to do so within two weeks of the assault to keep the location of the landing beaches secret. Tedder chose to ignore abundant evidence available from STRANGLE that time required for repairs correlated directly to the extent of the damage and the length and type of bridge involved. His arguments about secrecy were also baseless. The entire preinvasion bombing program was designed to keep the Germans guessing about the landings’ locations, and bridge attacks would easily have fit within that framework. For every gun emplacement attacked in the assault area, for example, two others were bombed beyond it. The same thing ultimately happened with bridges.*2  Zuckerman, much later in life, made it appear as though he and Tedder had been bridge-attack proponents. In a 1988 speech, he claimed his focus for the campaign had been to destroy enemy movement, whether by destroying bridges, cutting railway lines, or strafing soldiers. The aim “was to destroy movement, interrupting it as far back as possible. . . [by] the easiest and quickest ways. But all those ways were relevant and in the overtorp plan of bridge cutting there was a coherent plan. The OVERLORD plan . . . included