r Air Force History, 1993], 506)  ACIU photointerpreters had studied the German oil industry intensely since 1940. Squadron Leader Hamshaw Thomas, in charge of D Section, led this effort. He visited oil plants in Britain to learn all he could from their managers. When reconnaissance aircraft brought back the first photographs of the new synthetic oil plant at Leuna in summer 1941, Thomas traced all the processes involved in production, consulted again with British experts, and put together a reliable system for estimating a synthetic oil plant’s maximum productive capacity. Coverage of Briix in the Sudetenland in early May 1942 confirmed a huge new synthetic oil plant under construction. Flight Lieutenant Peter Kent, an exceptionally capable oil geologist whom Hamshaw Thomas put in charge of interpreting oil plants, used this and subsequent coverage to collect crucial information on the German oil industry. Kent soon had six interpreters helping him, including two Americans. Together with other special- ists, Kent and his team engaged in detailed planning for the oil offensive.*  When that offensive began, Kent and his team guided bombers to the most important targets by helping the JOTC and later the CSTC Working Committee (Oil) build weekly target lists. Their successes rested on the foundation provided by a mature reconnaissance capability. With abundant photos in hand, ACIU photointerpreters uncovered every oil target in the Reich and occupied Europe. These included two oil fields in the Vienna basin and others in Germany, Hungary, and Czechoslovakia. The discovery of the huge plant at Briix and a second large plant at Blechammer also proved vital. Intelligence gave airmen the insights required to destroy Germany’s oil industry. Consequently, the quantity of finished petroleum, oil, and lubricants (POL) products refined from crude oil decreased from 697,000 tons per month in April 1944 to 33,000 per month in April 1945. The quantity of finished petroleum product