d were never far from serious shortages.*2 As an MEW report emphasized, “No subject in the field of Germany’s economic war effort has received greater attention than her oil industry.”© Intelligence agencies brought the full range of technical, industrial, and service expertise to bear in determining Germany’s oil position every three months from 1939 to 1945. They benefited from the fact that British and American companies designed, built, and owned many of Germany’s crude oil refineries and synthetic oil plants before the war. Anglo-American technical experts visited these facilities frequently before 1939, and many plants were insured by British or American companies. Consequently, a wealth of knowledge was available, including plans, diagrams, photographs, key statistics, and the processes used at synthetic oil plants using the Bergius or Fischer-Tropsch methods. Anglo-American oil companies thus had deep knowledge and could make educated assessments about the large Bergius plants completed during the war (Briix, P6litz, and Blechhammer North and South). Imperial Chemical Industries had built several Bergius hydrogenation plants in the United Kingdom and understood their processes and vulnerabilities. Prewar research, development, testing, and evaluation programs conducted with the Germans revealed oil plants’ technical specifications. Petroleum engineering firms also had exact figures for German crude oil reserves and the locations of oil fields. They had very precise figures on reserves and on pumping and refining capacity. Equally important, petroleum experts also knew how limited German oil reserves were in 1939, how much oil they acquired with each new annexation or conquest, and therefore what the entire oil position looked like, taking into account all production sources, including Ploesti.®  Interagency oil reports averaged 500 to 600 per week. Several agencies produced them, including MEW and the Lloyd committee. This committee, formed at the request of