RGOTTEN  Analyses of Aerial Bombardment in World War I and Their Consequences  Debates and Connections: Tiverton, Trenchard, Gorrell  British and American postwar bombing surveys were fundamentally different. The report produced by the Air Ministry was a political document enshrining morale bombing. American reports, including the Air Service lessons learned and the postwar bombing survey, were more practical, seeking to determine how best to employ bombers during the next war. These reports, available to American airmen during the interwar period, greatly affected the development of theory, doctrine, and capabilities. The bombing survey had enormous influence because a summary version made it to the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS), HQ Air Service, and several other locations. ACTS strategic bombing advocates relied on it as a foundational document in developing precision daylight bombardment doctrine. Implications for air intelligence were implicit but nonetheless dramatic. A detailed examination of the effect of these postwar reports, and their key wartime proponents, will shed light on the close relationship between bombing doctrine and air intelligence during World War II.  Page 30 of 423 2%  THREE  LESSONS LEARNED, UNLEARNED, AND FORGOTTEN  Analyses of Aerial Bombardment in World War I and Their Consequences  Debates and Connections: Tiverton, Trenchard, Gorrell  British and American postwar bombing surveys were fundamentally different. The report produced by the Air Ministry was a political document enshrining morale bombing. American reports, including the Air Service lessons learned and the postwar bombing survey, were more practical, seeking to determine how best to employ bombers during the next war. These reports, available to American airmen during the interwar period, greatly affected the development of theory, doctrine, and capabilities.1 The bombing survey had enormous influence because a summary version made it to the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS