te. Spaatz also emphasized that the Joint Intelligence Subcommittee (JIC), Ministry of Economic Warfare (MEW), and Air Commodore Bufton had all recommended against the Tedder-Zuckerman plan.22  Spaatz was mistaken, however, in asserting that transportation attacks would fail in France, even if their effectiveness had proved limited in Italy. His criticisms of the transportation plan implied that anything short of a complete collapse of enemy resistance equated to failure. He missed the point that such attacks, even if not capable of producing decisive results on their own, would cause widespread friction and degrade the enemy’s fighting ability. He also erred in stating that the enemy had “a large surplus beyond his military requirements” of marshaling yards, locomotives, and railcars.28 This was a result of EOU intelligence regarding transportation targets, which was flawed. EOU estimated that 8 percent of rail traffic in France and Belgium was devoted to military traffic, but this analysis focused on traffic at the time, not anticipated levels of traffic as the Germans tried to reinforce and resupply. EOU analysts believed there would be only a modest increase in percentage of traffic used for military purposes after the invasion.22 If this was not self-serving, it was at the least bad analysis. Consequently, Spaatz’s unwillingness to give adequate credence to Zuckerman’s exhaustive research, where railroads had proven vital choke points, was unfortunate. It also proved perplexing, given Spaatz’s previous support for Tedder’s ideas about what came to be the transpor- tation plan.22 Spaatz’s EOU advisors, however, proved to be correct in arguing for bridge attacks.  Bridge Attacks: The Other Spaatz/EOU Plan  In contrast to their British counterparts, Spaatz and his EOU team followed bridge attacks carefully and were impressed by the amount of time it took German combat engineers to rebuild damaged bridges. The Germans spent an average of seventeen days completing t