on by canal became decisive in the maintenance of industry in central Germany. . . . It was possible to maintain industrial production in Germany on an emergency basis thanks to the fact that we always succeeded in pushing through emergency traffic [by rail and barge] for one or two days be- fore the next attack.428  Similarly, Speer said there was always enough fuel for industrial purposes because an emergency ration of 60,000 tons per month of motor fuel and diesel allowed key industries to continue operating until destruction of the railroad network in early 1945 caused a catastrophic drop in production.142 Finally, Speer said a pause of only three days in Ruhr raids allowed railroad workers to increase daily wagon allocation from 6,000 to 12,000.14° This gave the Reichsbahn several temporary reprieves during fall and winter 1944-1945, but as the Allies used ever larger numbers of blind- bombing capabilities, these became less frequent and the bombing, even through cloud cover, became increasingly heavy. Regardless, the impossibility of reducing fuel production and coal transport to nil was noteworthy.  If bombing was incapable of stopping all railcar placements and train movements, it came increasingly close by 1945. Speer said severe damage to marshaling yards, combined with destruction of signals equipment (telegraphs, telephones, and switching and signaling equipment), meant that even when trains could move, they were difficult to locate or reroute. This made it nearly impossible to track even vital consignments, including fuel. This was why Speer said, “Transport difficulties were decisive in causing the swift breakdown of the Ardennes offensive.”141  Rundstedt agreed. Noting that German troops involved in the attack started out with a two-day supply of gasoline, he said the combination of air attacks on all points of the fuel pipeline, poor roads, poorly trained truck drivers, and the need to drive slowly and at night resulted in utterly inadequate fuel sup