ng the move to the front, and as always, fighter-bombers singled out fuel trucks. “Gasoline,” Bayerlein said,  was getting short, and every drop of it had to be brought up from Troisdorf [a distance of over 100 miles] by truck. The long march had itself cost about 30 tanks aside from attacks—tanks which had bogged down, run out of gas, or had other mechanical trouble. About this time Model issued an order that all other stalled vehicles along the road should be drained of gas, which should be used to get the tanks up to the front.1%2  In the offensive’s aftermath, Bayerlein had to leave fifty-three tanks behind between 11 and 15 January as gas ran out. His troops drained vehicles in repair depots of fuel so tanks on the line would have a bit more for tactical maneuvers.122  Bayerlein noted that, as in Normandy, there was “almost always a shortage of fuel,” which made the following basic tactical actions difficult or impossible: moving tanks for counterattacks, shifting the division’s artillery, bringing up reinforcements, moving reserves to endangered sectors, hauling tanks to repair shops, bringing forward fuel and ammunition, and conducting mobile defensive op- erations. The same set of effects was in play to an even greater extent than in France.4%4  Allied airmen did not rest on their laurels. Although ten of eleven western synthetic oil plants were inactive, five of eleven eastern plants were active, and others probably so. They would produce 180,000 tons of oil in November and 240,000 in December if not attacked. Most Austrian, Czechoslovakian, and Polish refineries were in production. Finally, of twenty-three major benzol plants in the Ruhr, fourteen were fully active.+2> Production estimates were 449,000 tons (34 percent of preattack total) in November and 565,000 tons (42 percent) in December.126 This pointed to a potential re- surgence in oil production.  The news was not all bad, though. Not only were the Ruhr oil plants out of action and now policed as n