ey should be regarded as expert advisors on railway matters to all Service Ministries and to the Ministry of Economic Warfare.”22 This was significant in view of Sherrington’s dual position as head of the RRS and a senior member of MEW, the only person to occupy two such positions simultaneously. Wigglesworth’s request marked the point at which target materials development and detailed operational planning began.  On 22 January 1944, a paper from Bufton, the Air Ministry’s director of bomber operations, went out to all senior operations and intelligence personnel involved in planning the transportation campaign. It became the blueprint for an offensive against marshaling yards in France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, and western Germany from March to October 1944. The document went out under Bufton’s signature, but it had Zuckerman’s and Tedder’s fingerprints all over it. The point of departure was the paper’s assertion that “although line capacity is plentiful, motive power is short.”26 Since 1942, the Germans had commandeered 4,260 of 12,000 locomotives belonging to the French National Railroad (the Société National des Chemins du Fer, or SNCF) for use in Germany and the east. Most were heavy locomotives for pulling large trains and represented a disproportionate loss of motive power. The RRS said the SNCF was carrying as much as it could and would be un- able to expand operations after D-day as a result of locomotive shortages.  Zuckerman’s influence became clear in a summary of the offensive against Italy’s railroads, which noted that concerted bombing of six rail centers  virtually brought the railway system to a standstill through the destruction or isolation of servicing and repair facilities, rolling stock and tracks (with the consequent blocking of yards), the dislocation of signaling and switch systems, the interruption of water and electrical supplies. ... The paralysis so caused was not a result of the cutting of lines, nor was it determined by t