sessments underscored.*! The Americans, on the other hand, paid for their lack of emphasis on air intelligence with a nearly complete reliance on the British.  Most significant, on the British side, was the emergence in the late interwar period of air and economic intelligence agencies capable of gauging bombing effects and effectiveness. As the war progressed, these agencies developed an increasingly close and productive working relationship, one that grew stronger once the Americans arrived. This process resulted by 1944 in a mature Allied air intelligence organization. Of course, the British had a great deal of work to do before these things came to pass, and it is to their efforts between 1939 and 1942 that we now turn.  Page 81 of 423 21%  the USAAF establish an aerial interpretation school immediately, request the services of Flight Lieutenant Stephenson and the two other RAF officers, and have the new school up and running by 1 February 1942. Arnold and Scanlon approved and established the Army Air Forces Air Intelligence School on 16 February 1942 at College Park, Maryland. The school moved to Harrisburg, Pennsylva- nia, in April 1942, and in 1944 became the Intelligence Division, School of Applied Tactics, in Orlando, Florida.*®  Hutchison also reconfirmed the value of the PRUs and CIU, saying Air Vice Marshal Fred Inglis, the Air Ministry’s assistant chief of air staff (intelligence), estimated over 80 percent of RAF intelligence came from aerial photographs. He further noted that the work done by the PRUs was so important they received first priority for all improved and new aircraft types. PRU1 already had forty Spitfires and six Mosquitoes assigned. Pilots had primary and secondary objectives, which meant they almost always brought back useful photos.  Slow but Steady Progress  One other American visit deserves brief mention. In summer 1941, Major Haywood Hansell visited the Air Ministry, where Air Vice Marshal Inglis gave him nearly a ton of documents,