n resulting from sparse rail shipments and the exhaustion of supplies in local depots, divisions sent their trucks to railheads for supplies, with all the risks previously enumerated. Thus, the Germans were always short of fuel and ammunition. They had just enough to wage a defensive battle along a static front, but fuel shortages proved disastrous when the static front gave way to mobile warfare. Then, they quickly ran out of fuel, losing most of their vehicles from direct fire in combat or as a result of worsening fuel shortages during the retreat from the Falaise-Argentan Gap.  At each stage in this process, friction was always at work, making the German situation tenuous as units lost dedicated truck transport and thus their ability to mass and maneuver. This problem worsened as trucks were strafed, broke down, or had accidents, and as air attacks destroyed bridges, forcing detours costly in time and gasoline. Armored vehicles, in need of service after long road marches, often broke down and could not easily be repaired. Finally, fuel shortages, initially caused by distribution problems, intensified as a result of outright scarcity once fuel depots were depleted or destroyed and the oil offensive reduced new supplies dramatically by August. Lieutenant Colonel Lewis Powell, Spaatz’s Ultra representative, confirmed these constant fuel shortages and the need to resupply at night—a dangerous activity in its own right.124  The 2nd SS Panzer Division quickly ran afoul of these problems when it left Toulouse on 10 June. The division completed its movement to St. L6 on 2 July, a twenty-two-day odyssey encompassing 360 rail miles and another 100 road miles. Troops had to haul tanks by rope, on flatcars, one at a time, over the only Loire River railroad bridge still capable of carrying them. This bridge was seriously damaged and unable to sustain the weight of an entire train but passable for single flatcars and wagons. All other heavy-gauge bridges were down. After the d