onstant effort, he protested, was to get the best results possible from every sortie. However, he continued, “oil targets are small and usually outlying... we have always regarded it as virtually fruitless to attempt to attack them unless one can get a visual by day or a visual on ground markers laid by Oboe or G.H. at night... . Oilis my preferred target, but only when conditions in the Ruhr offer good prospects for a successful attack.”143 Harris admitted his unawareness of all the intelligence sources used to target Germany’s oil assets. He also questioned the precise production percentages provided, although he must have known by now how accurate they were. Harris said he hoped the intelligence figures were correct and the results of his aircrews’ efforts against oil would justify losses in raids that “may prove to have been more frequent than necessary to fulfill the required purpose.”144 Harris then said weather was the reason he did not order an attack on Gelsenkirchen. It was difficult to locate, and the poor visibility in this instance had offered poor prospects for a successful raid. Recent aerial photographs of the oil plants in the city, he continued, showed no signs that they were again in operation. His understanding of the directive (and he was correct here) was that oil plants were to be put out of commission and kept unserviceable but not necessarily totally destroyed. Harris then warned:  If in fact the intention is now to go on flogging them even while they are temporarily dead horses until they are utterly destroyed, that puts a different complexion on the matter and opens up a vista of additional losses and loss of effort in every direction which I seriously doubt whether we can stand in the light of the reductions now taking place in the training output on the one hand,  Page 279 of 423 66%  Re Ne ee — see ee —_—s  will be a terrific battle between destruction and repair and we cannot afford to give a single point away. ... 1 was very much worr