airdromes, the former because bomb damage was difficult to gauge, the latter because hangars and runways were easy to repair.®4  Similar problems occurred during the St. Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne offensives, over which Mitchell exercised centralized control of 323 bombers, including five American bomb squadrons, a French night bomb group, and British IF squadrons. This force, although small by World War II standards, was an unprecedented concentration of bomber strength. For the St. Mihiel offensive, bombers were “to destroy and harass the rear areas of the battlefield, and to attack military and industrial objectives beyond the range of artillery” and “to cause a dispersion of enemy anti-aircraft defense (anti-air- craft guns, pursuit patrols, etc.)”®=  Attacks on high-value targets, including the rail center at Conflans, were often effective in slowing the movement of German troops and supplies. Major George E. A. Reinburg, commander, 2nd Day Bombardment Group, summed up the outcome:  Resulting from the bombing of principal enemy railroad centers, the traffic at those centers was so tied up, that trains had to be rerouted thru other channels, causing considerable inconveni- ence and delay. The morale of the railroad workers was considerably lowered, judging from the testimony received after the armistice. As a result of the bombing of enemy concentrations several enemy counterattacks were said to have been checked at the outset. During enemy retreat the bombers caused considerable confusion along the route. Aside from these considerations the material damage done by bombers during their raids was considerable and has not been calculated. The indirect results affecting the morale of the enemy and our own troops can scarcely be estimated, but helped considerably towards a successful conclusion of hostilities.©®  This after-action report, based on numerous raid reports containing assessments based on hard evidence such as aerial photos, soft evidence such as aircrew r