squadrons now beginning to arrive. Major General Ira C. Eaker, commander of 8th Bomber Command, recommended to Spaatz that all USAAF photoreconnaissance squadrons initially operate out of RAF Benson (where the British PRUs were stationed) for a short period to receive training from experienced British pilots. He also recommended that all requests for photographic cover go to ADI(Ph), and that a USAAF liaison officer be stationed there to enhance efficiency. Spaatz and the British agreed, and both recommendations were put into operation immediately.22  At the same time, 8th Bomber Command staff officers recommended that USAAF reconnaissance squadrons be based at RAF Mount Farm to be close to the British PRUs at RAF Benson. The British had recommended this earlier for ease of operational coordination, more effective and rapid receipt of photographs and production of immediate interpretation reports at RAF Pinetree, and more rapid courier service to Allied headquarters and intelligence organizations. These actions maximized the efficiency of photoreconnaissance and photointerpretation. This vision for combined operations and centralized control of assets came to fruition with the arrival of the first American unit, the 13th Photographic Reconnaissance Squadron, at Mount Farm in February 1943.84  Building a Combined and Interagency Air Intelligence Effort  As the Allies worked out these details, American air intelligence officers also began working in other British intelligence organizations. A close cooperation developed in 1942 between the Economic Warfare Division at the American Embassy in London and MEW, both of which were concerned with economic intelligence and therefore the economic and military impacts of bombing on the German war effort. James Sommerville, the American liaison officer at MEW, ensured that American airmen received all available intelligence relating to the bombing effects. This proved a most useful conduit for the provision of MEW damage assess