rence was a lack of capable bombers, bombsights, navigational tech- niques, bombing tactics, and effective munitions in 1940-1941.S2  Discussions regarding oil attacks began in 1939, when Bomber Command officers discussed the feasibility of raiding depots, synthetic oil plants, and oil refineries in range of medium bombers. Discussions were based on Bomber Command Operation Order No. 11, which posited an oil offensive and provided target types, vulnerabilities, and optimum attack methods. Gordon Bell, a petroleum expert with the Anglo-American Oil Company, augmented this intelligence with data on Hamburg’s refineries and photographs of oil plants and depots in the United Kingdom in an effort to assist with oil raids.22  By October 1939, the Air Ministry joined these discussions, providing insights on key components of Bergius plants, including hydrogenation stalls, water-gas units, carbon monoxide conversion plants, and sulfur purification works, which together presented a target about 40 acres in size. Vital components at Fischer-Tropsch plants included their water-gas units, carbon monoxide conversion plant, sulfur purification works, contact oven house, and condensers. The distillation and cracking plants at both types of facilities were also vital, but for production of fuel rather than of oil from coal. Equally vulnerable were overhead pipes for conveying steam pressure to various plant components. Without this high-pressure steam, the plants could not function.  Bell continued his correspondence with Air Vice Marshal Norman Bottomley at the Air Staff, providing suggestions on the best tactics and bombs for oil targets and comparative insights on Belgian and Dutch oil infrastructures. Bottomley and his counterparts at the Air Ministry also learned a good bit from an article in a French professional journal analyzing the types of bombs Germans had used on Polish oil refineries and depots. They used a mix of 550-pound high-explosive bombs and small incendiary mun