ards. Given the still-rudimentary state of navigation instruments and bombsights, these were de facto area targets.  The COS also mentioned another means of getting at German oil supplies: an attack on the eleven crude oil refineries around the Rumanian town of Ploesti, which by this time supplied over a third of Germany’s oil. They recognized the importance of Rumanian oil but concluded that “although the stoppage of Roumanian supplies would be the biggest single blow to the German oil position the destruction of his synthetic oil plants in Germany alone would bring about a crisis... . The interruption of Roumanian supplies, in addition to the destruction of the synthetic oil plants might render Germany impotent before the end of 1941.”4 Aside from the fact that the British lacked the bombers to bring off this double play, they also needed permission to use Greek air bases—not a sure thing given Greek leaders’ concerns that such a move would invite a German attack.  Despite these issues, the War Committee, chaired by Churchill, approved the COS proposals.* This was no surprise, given Churchill’s interest in oil attacks and his statement to the secretary of state for air, Sir Archibald Sinclair, in November 1940, that he wanted a plan for bombing Ploesti from Greek air bases. Sinclair passed this order to his chief of air staff, Air Chief Marshal Sir Cyril Newall.£ His staff responded with a proposal to attack with five squadrons, dropping 258 tons of bombs per month, which he said would achieve 25 to 30 percent destruction of Ploesti refineries within four months.2  Pronouncements about a two-pronged oil offensive were one thing; operational realities were another. Winter weather made attacks infrequent, and even with favorable conditions, crews went after virtually everything except oil. For the first four weeks after the War Committee confirmed oil as the top priority, bombers went after only one such target: an oil-storage facility in Holland. The eight Blenheim