n article in a French professional journal analyzing the types of bombs Germans had used on Polish oil refineries and depots. They used a mix of 550-pound high-explosive bombs and small incendiary munitions, the first to collapse oil tanks and the second to ignite spilled oil. By No-  Page 102 of 423 26%  AELCI) OLLICES COMCETNEG Will) Oll IMaAllers.”  As it became available in increasing quantities, photoreconnaissance provided vital insights by corroborating other sources and providing imagery of every new oil plant and refinery in German- occupied Europe. This allowed intelligence analysts to determine each plant’s dimensions and layout. CIU photointerpreters then worked with MEW analysts to determine product output and, once the major oil offensive began in April 1944, reductions in output and likely duration of repairs. Aerial photos also allowed interpreters to determine German procedures for shipping oil and fuel to depots. Beginning in spring 1940, interpretation reports provided precise information on depots, including the number and capacity of storage tanks, and the amount of oil stored there. Given the size of major synthetic oil plants, they were even easier to locate than depots and impossible to hide, move, or disperse. The same was true of drilling operations for crude oil and construction of refineries, which gave analysts a clear idea of production at each location.*  Photoreconnaissance also worked in conjunction with less well-known intelligence sources. Once Allied armies came into sustained contact with the enemy, mobile fuel-analysis laboratories analyzed samples of captured motor fuel, aircraft fuel, and lubricating oils to determine quality; frequency of maintenance on tanks, trucks, and aircraft; and levels of benzol, alcohol, and other substi- tutes mixed with fuel. They also published information on producer-gas vehicles. This provided key information on the importance of benzol, which led to concerted bombing of Ruhr benzol plants.©  Tho