assessment of vulnerabilities. It focused on interdicting vital oil and coal shipments. The A-2 recommended attacks on locomotives and rolling stock to reduce Italy’s carrying capacity. This meant attacking marshaling yards. Also significant was the report’s finding that the Brenner Pass carried almost 50 percent of train traffic into Italy and two Swiss lines another 38 percent, with the rest moving over smaller lines from France and Yugoslavia. Interdic- tion of the Brenner Pass and the lines entering Italy from Switzerland thus had high priority. The Mediterranean Allied Photographic Reconnaissance Wing prepared target materials accordingly.12  The NAAF A-2 report also noted there were three major north-south rail lines: one along each coast, and one through the Apennines from Bologna to Rome. Marshaling yards at Rome and Naples formed bottlenecks in this network. Because the east-coast line turned west to Naples, most east coast traffic and all north-south traffic passed through marshaling yards east of Naples, making these key targets. Rolling stock and locomotive production were weak and vulnerable. All locomotive factories were targets.14  Zuckerman Arrives  By late June, NAAF and Professor Solly Zuckerman had devised competing plans for attacking Sicilian railroads in preparation for the invasion. Despite A-2’s insights, the NAAF operations plan focused on bombing rail lines, which were not even on the A-2’s list of key targets. Zuckerman focused instead on marshaling yards in Sicily and southern Italy. Tedder chose Zuckerman’s plan, and when the Allies secured Sicily, Tedder sent him to conduct a ground survey of bombing operations there and glean from Italian railroad officials the effectiveness of raids on marshaling yards from Naples and Foggia to Palermo.12  Zuckerman had worked in the Ministry of Home Security from the beginning of the war, where he analyzed the effects of German bombing on British industries and railroads. He was also a member of Rese