ore damage in urban areas, especially if dropped in conjunction with large high-explosive bombs. The idea was to smash buildings and gas mains, which were then more susceptible to ignition. The memo closed with a reminder that “incen- diary bombs should therefore be used in large quantities when attacking sea ports, inland water ports, and industrial towns.” These grim calculations provided the basis for city raids.2  By January 1942, the Bomb Subcommittee of the Bombing Committee had a great deal of empirical evidence, gleaned from hundreds of bomb-damage and munitions-effectiveness reports and bombing tests in the British Isles, upon which to base decisions regarding bomb production. Among the most significant was the great utility of the 4,000-pound high-capacity bomb against oil refineries. Its immense blast and cratering effects had the capacity to destroy aboveground steam pipes and underground electric and gas utility conduits, which were vital for the effective functioning of oil plants and refineries. Equally important was the recognition that 500-pound mediumcapacity bombs could be quite effective against oil tanks as well as marshaling yards. In fact, they were nearly as effective as 1,000-pound bombs, and bombers could carry twice as many, making them the clear choice for attacks on these targets. Professor Bernal also recommended that 500-pound bombs dropped on marshaling yards have variable fusing to hamper postraid repair and reconstitution. The British held that for attacks on oil plants, 500-pound bombs, incendiaries, and 4,000-pound bombs should be interspersed to smash piping and conduits, and to torch spilled oil and fuel.  The remarkable thing about these conclusions, and the discussions generating them, is that the British were already focused on city bombing. Yet they continued to think seriously about the effects of various munitions against oil plants, marshaling yards, and other precision targets on which attacks had been abandoned as impra