nce, every branch of the army had its own photo sections at unit and headquarters level, all of which received tasking in isolation, resulting in duplication of effort. The huge number of photos coming from units also overwhelmed intelligence officers at headquarters. Finally, the lack of a centralized photointerpretation unit was a major weakness that would await correction with the British (later Allied) Central Interpretation Unit at RAF Medmenham in World War II.2*  Intelligence: A Contested and Political Commodity  By summer 1918, the British and Americans had air staffs with formal intelligence capabilities, and more capable—and numerous—bomber formations. Technological, organizational, and training improvements had combined by summer 1918 to create the first true, albeit rudimentary, air intelligence organizations. The emergence of intelligence and photographic sections at bombardment and observation squadrons, along with the Air Ministry and the American G-2-A-7, brought greater focus to intelligence collection, interpretation, and dissemination. Although these capabilities appeared late in the war, they marked the point of departure for damage assessment in World War II. They received their first tests during the British IF strategic and reprisal campaign and American-led bomb- ing in the St. Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne offensives.  The British IF bombing campaign in summer and autumn 1918 was driven by a contest between the IF’s commander, Major General Trenchard, and the new chief of the air staff, Major General Frederick Sykes. These two men had very different ideas about the potential and proper employment of bombers. Sykes took his lead from one of his staff officers, Major Lord Tiverton (Second Earl of Halsbury), a Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve officer who cross-commissioned to the RAF upon its establishment in April 1918. He served under Brigadier General P. R. C. Groves, head of the Directorate of Flying Operations (DFO) at the Air Ministry. Tiverton i