s assessments, MEW would give Bomber Command Int. 1 the new, reduced percent- age figures for various industries and the town’s adjusted total contribution to the German war effort. MEW would also provide each city’s expected recovery time.  After attendees agreed on division of labor, they ironed out the details of the process for producing and updating Bomber Command’s damage dossiers. They settled on a ten-step process designed to be completed fourteen days after a given raid. It began with CIU’s K (Damage Assessment) Section. Each step took one or two days:  1. CIU K Section prepared the 1:5,000 scale prints with grid overlay. 2. CIU K Section noted building types damaged (residential, commercial, and industrial) and the cause of damage (blast, fire, or both) on the 1:5,000 maps. 3. CIU K Section prepared a detailed bomb plot showing all known bomb impacts in built-up areas of the city.  Page 124 of 423 32%  taitts. Lille CULLLVALALIVE APPIUALIL PIUVIMEM ot ILI ALIS LUE UCLEL Ts Uda BS LU OLLULLULES AIIM A50ULIALOUM 1055 UL PIUUUCLIUE. 10 LICE lotpiits Uli Udilld ee CaAlottt OY Wei iiiall UUIIIUS, CUI PAlloUils of the characteristics of those bombs with British bombs of similar size; susceptibility of various industries to blast, fragmentation, and fire damage; comparisons of British and German building construction to optimize bomb choice; and assessments of railroad damage and delays in traffic. RE8 reports became the gold standard of assessments, particularly after ground-survey teams in France and Germany during 1944-1945 determined they were always within a few percentage points of figures quoted in captured German damage records.*8  RE8 analysts soon used damage assessments in cooperation with their CIU counterparts to drive major changes in bombing focus during 1944-1945. They had connections with British plant managers, engineers, and architects who advised them on various aspects of damage assessments and munitions effectiveness, drawing on their own ex