ery [in this case aircraft] were able to prolong and intensify its fire on the important objectives in that zone where occurs the ebb and tide of the extensive main- tenance and replenishment which now goes on in all security from our attack? What would happen if bases of communication were destroyed, supplies of rations and materiel cut off for several days, if reserve troops were subjected to the demoralizing effect of fire without defense or repartee being possible? The bombardment airplane should be looked upon as a long-range gun capable of doing what the fixed artillery cannot manage.”  From there, he turned to a more detailed discussion of bombardment aviation’s role in what we today would call battle area (or deep) interdiction, emphasizing the future value of bombers as platforms for attacking lines of communication. Even more important, though, was his emphasis on the destruction of industrial centers in the zone of the enemy’s interior—the sinews of war enab- ling an enemy to keep fighting.® This attack on industries marked the hinge between what Gorrell referred to as tactical and strategical aviation. The latter, he said,  is mainly at long distances and is an integral part of the offensive. ... The basic purpose is to weaken the power of the enemy both directly and indirectly; directly, by interrupting his production, transport and organization through the infliction of damage on his industrial, railway and military centers and by compelling him to draw back his fighting machines [fighter aircraft] to deal with the enemy’s; indirectly, by producing discontent and alarm among the industrial population. In other words, it aims at achieving both a material and a moral effect.2  Gorrell further stated that for strategic bombardment to have maximum effects, “visits must be constantly repeated, at short intervals . . . for it is this recurrent bombardment . .. which interrupts industrial production and undermines the public confidence.”22  These ideas receiv