alue targets, including the rail center at Conflans, were often effective in slowing the movement of German troops and supplies. Major George E. A. Reinburg, commander, 2nd Day Bombardment Group, summed up the outcome:  Resulting from the bombing of principal enemy railroad centers, the traffic at those centers was so tied up, that trains had to be rerouted thru other channels, causing considerable inconveni- ence and delay. The morale of the railroad workers was considerably lowered, judging from the testimony received after the armistice. As a result of the bombing of enemy concentrations several enemy counterattacks were said to have been checked at the outset. During enemy retreat the bombers caused considerable confusion along the route. Aside from these considerations the material damage done by bombers during their raids was considerable and has not been calculated. The indirect results affecting the morale of the enemy and our own troops can scarcely be estimated, but helped considerably towards a successful conclusion of hostilities.©®  This after-action report, based on numerous raid reports containing assessments based on hard evidence such as aerial photos, soft evidence such as aircrew reports, and even softer evidence such as railroad workers’ comments after the Armistice, made clear the serious limitations still inherent in damage assessment. On balance, the air intelligence organization was simply not yet capable of pro- viding detailed analyses.  Results of the final bombing offensives, as they related to the development of damage assessments, were fourfold. First, they reemphasized how rudimentary damage-assessment capabilities still were, despite the emergence of a fledgling intellectual infrastructure. Second, the fact that an intellectual infrastructure emerged at all, and that it was able to provide effective damage assessments at least some of the time, was significant and would have a substantial impact on the creation of its more capable suc