y each country’s reconnaissance sorties, provision of rapid reports from reconnaissance sorties to the other country’s intelligence directorate, rapid sharing of bomb plots and other intelligence materials produced at flying units and headquarters, and the proper division of labor for producing long-term records of bomb damage. The result was a daily meeting between the intelligence directorates to apprise one another of all reconnaissance sorties laid on with ADI(Ph) for poststrike photographic cover and determine the sorties in which both had an interest. For these sorties, they gave each other copies. This daily coordination process extended to the provision of bomb-fall plots and aircrew debriefings, resulting in an efficient and highly integrated damage assessment process at all echelons.**  As this cooperation progressed, more Americans arrived. The British accepted an offer to station a sixty-one-man USAAF photographic squadron at the ACIU. They saw that USAAF requirements for photos, including poststrike cover, were increasing rapidly, and they were determined to satisfy them. Fortunately, American photointerpreters were fast learners. The 1st Photographic Intelligence Detachment (1st PID) became so effective that by summer 1943, it provided specialized damage assessments for RE8 analysts to use as they prepared detailed damage reports. This was significant because RE8 reports were the gold standard, and the analysts who wrote them required high-quality data and analysis. The fact that American photointerpreters met RE8’s high expectations was a re- flection of the effective instruction received from their British counterparts and of their own capabilities. An even more fundamental sign of 1st PID’s importance was a decision by 8th Air Force senior officers to move the unit from RAF Medmenham to RAF Pinetree. The move proved beneficial because once K Section joined the 1st PID at Pinetree in May 1944, the entire first-phase and second-phase damage-assessment