de these attacks top priority after the last four functioning Bergius plants.®2 A Chiefs of Staff (COS) report confirmed that bombing was already slowing the move of German divisions as they attempted to entrain and begin the journey east.  CSTC members said heavy bombers should raid cities in central and eastern Germany to prevent movement of reinforcements to the east. Creating greater friction was key: “The attack of these cities had been ordered, not merely because of their communications value or for any other single specific object, but because any additional chaos which we could cause at this juncture would make the Ger- man administrative and military problems, already immense, still more difficult.”*4  Berlin, Dresden, Leipzig, and Chemnitz were high in the rankings on the CSTC targets list, as were rail centers in the west where 6th SS Panzer Army was entraining. The list included just twenty- seven marshaling yards, down from over seventy during the height of the transportation campaign. All others had been damaged severely enough to warrant their removal.2= The CSTC then issued a supplemental list with five more targets. Rail centers to be raided in support of the Russian offensive thus came to include Berlin, Dresden, Chemnitz, Leipzig, Halle, Plauen, Dessau, Potsdam, and Erfurt. This list noted, “The following targets have been selected for their importance in relation to movements of evacuees from, and of military forces to, the Eastern Front.”2&  Dresden, which has become an emotional touchstone for the brutality of Allied bombing, was indeed demolished in a series of devastating raids. What has been all but forgotten is the Allied decision to attack Dresden and the other eight cities to speed the Red Army’s advance and end the war. Damage reports noted the chaos caused by the raids. An ACIU K report and poststrike photos of Dresden confirmed severe damage to the main rail center, which was heavily loaded with locomotives and railcars. Many fires wer