ansportation attacks via the Enigma cipher. However, Ultra absolutely could not have provided a comprehensive damage-assessment picture on its own. Only when combined with photointelligence-based products and technical-expert intelligence did it yield the kind of fidelity that came to be the norm by spring 1944.  Heavy Bombers and the War in Europe: A Counterfactual Analysis  Although we cannot know exactly how much these important intelligence and operations efforts shortened the war and Allied casualty lists, it is worthwhile to pose a counterfactual question. How much more difficult would it have been to defeat a Wehrmacht with adequate supplies of fuel, ammunition, and heavy weapons, able to concentrate and maneuver on a large scale, still ideologically motivated, operating along much shorter front lines with good rail and road networks, and fighting to keep Allied armies from entering the Reich? The Allies would have prevailed, but the battle would have been longer and the costs much greater. Any effort to arrive at exact figures for numbers of Allied soldiers spared as a result of the transportation and oil campaigns, or the number of months by which bombing shortened the war, is fraught with imponderables. Yet we can engage in informal speculation based on what we know about the course of major campaigns during the war’s final year. In Normandy, the Allies and Germans each suffered about 200,000 casualties—a 1:1 loss ratio. In addition, the Germans had about 65,000 men captured before the Allied breakout. However, when they began running out of gasoline and the Allied breakout from Normandy followed, the Germans lost another 135,000 men captured between 25 July and 25 August.2! The final ratio was therefore 2:1.  When fuel shortages became pervasive and severe in the west, casualty ratios shifted dramatically in the Allies’ favor. During the Rhineland campaign, 8 February to 21 March 1945, 60,000 German men were killed and wounded, and another 290,000 were ta