all 1944 and were transferred to the west highlighted the disastrous fuel situation in the east. They said, “the Russians encircled the Germans again and again, moving ahead faster than the Germans could retreat. ... Supplies were sent everywhere except where most needed. General chaos existed.”182 Another said, “Gasoline is particularly lacking. In most instances supplies and artillery are moved by horse-power, therefore, very slowly. In addition to the gasoline shortage, Allied bombing of rail lines has further disrupted supply lines.”2£2 Ultra intercepts and POW interrogations corroborated one another increasingly as fall turned to winter and the German fuel position worsened.  The geography at the southern end of the German lines facilitated an effective effort to cut off fuel supplies and avenues of retreat through Rumania and the Carpathians in late summer and fall 1944. Group Captain J. C. E. Luard, chief of MAAF intelligence, produced a paper examining “the possibilities of aid to the Russians through attacks on the Balkan communication system by Italian based long range heavy bombers.”284 Luard noted the Russian capture of Cernauti had severed the main German supply lines. This action threw practically the entire burden of supplying German troops on the Hungarian and Rumanian rail systems, confined between the Carpathians on the north and the Danube on the south. In between, Luard observed, trains moved through a series of bottlenecks, including bridges and tunnels, before emerging onto flat lands to the east. This meant German troops along the southern portion of the front were almost entirely dependent on Rumanian fuel for mobility. Luard identified three transportation bottlenecks: Bucharest, Brasov, and Ploesti. The daily capacity of the two main rail lines leading through Ploesti was 33,000 to 36,000 tons. The Danube was no longer a feasible alternative as a result of Allied mining.+85  Luard then estimated German requirements along the southern portio