neral level of chaos and bringing about a railroad work stoppage. Eisenhower had originally asked for the operation to support ground forces, and Spaatz was a proponent, but he cautioned Arnold that he no longer thought that a single air effort could win the war. This was a conclusion, given available intelligence, which he might just have easily made at any point over the preceding ten months. CLARION became nothing more than an attack on transportation, concentrated in time, with over 1,000 heavy bombers and thousands of smaller aircraft wreaking havoc on the German railroad network. The operation worked as well as could be ex- pected, delaying rail movements toward the American advance around Cologne, but it was no war ender. Bombing—and the slugfest on the ground—continued for another three months.14  During the period from September 1944 to VE Day, air intelligence once again proved vital to the Allied war effort. Despite the imperfections in analyses for the transportation offensive against the Reich, intelligence specialists were right most of the time, and their insights proved instrumental in speeding Nazi Germany’s collapse.  Page 334 of 423 79%  once more at reviving THUNDERCLAP. Morley said, “That this operation is an attack on enemy morale needs no apology.”-** The following day Bufton relayed this appeal to Bottomley on the basis of the Russian advance and the possibility that combining that with an intensive bombardment of key cities could cause the German war effort to collapse. Bufton thought a heavy attack on Berlin, supple- mented by attacks on Breslau and Munich by 15th Air Force bombers, “would greatly increase the moral effect of both operations.” The Allies, he said, had to seize the psychological moment.122  Portal, who at this point appeared to be just about the last person in the chain of command with a steady hand on the tiller, demurred. “It is certainly not worth while,” he argued, “to undertake large scale bombing of communications in t