ursued in 1940 was grotesquely unrelatable to facts or to practical possibilities. As to this second edition, it is another attempt to seek a quick, clever, easy and cheap way out. It will prove to be none of these things. ... We pursue a chimera and we will not overtake it. The oil policy will not succeed. If it fails, the enormous force diverted will achieve virtually nothing. It is for such reasons that I am glad to have no share of responsibility for a decision which I am convinced is utterly wrong. Those are my views on oil.174  He closed with a claim that Portal had accused him of disloyalty and failure to carry out policies in the bombing directives. Rejecting this, Harris admitted he had no faith in the oil offensive and had voiced opposition, but had then put every possible effort into it. Viewed in this light, he said, the entire affair had simply become one of “heads I lose tails you win, and it is an intolerable situation. I therefore ask you to consider whether it is best for the prosecution of the war and the success of our arms, which alone matters, that I should remain in this situation.”2  The errors in Harris’s letter were numerous and betray an inexplicable lack of insight on the oil campaign’s results. It was already clear that once German armies were forced into mobile warfare, they ran out of fuel almost immediately. The most junior intelligence analyst could have dismissed his argument that the Germans needed only 25 percent of full production to continue fighting by pointing out that nearly half of that paltry amount would be tied up in whatever pipeline the Germans managed to keep flowing. The remaining fuel was far too limited to allow for an effective defense once things on the ground became active. As for his stated view that the 1940 oil plan and campaign were unrelated to facts or practical possibilities, he was decidedly wrong. His effort to discredit the 1944-1945 oil campaign by pointing to its predecessor—as Tedder had done during t