ront.”!2 In November 1916, Sir Douglas Haig, the senior British commander, told the War Office, “Long-range bombing as a means of defeating the enemy is entirely secondary . . . its results are comparatively unimportant.” Nonetheless, by 1917, bombers were striking tactical targets both within and beyond the range of friendly guns, and it was here that the damage-assessment process had its birth.12  The idea of bombers as extensions of artillery exerted a major influence on air operations from 1917 to the end of the war. Even with renewed interest in bombers after German raids on London in 1917, strategic operations took a backseat. The RFC statement of duties for bomb squadrons included a requirement “to undertake long range offensive operations against Military or National objectives,” but this was at the bottom of the list after “fighting in the air,” “reconnaissance,” and “bombing in connection with military operations.” This decision to give support of ground forces priority over strategic bombing reflects the overriding focus on the ground war, technological limitations that made long-range bombing problematic, and a predisposition to treat bombers as mobile guns. American senior officers adopted these British views.  The Americans learned artillery damage-assessment techniques from the British and French. During the St. Mihiel offensive, when bombers were “to destroy and harass the rear areas of the battlefield, and to attack military and industrial objectives beyond the range of artillery,” American intelligence specialists had their first serious test. Before that, as they trained, they read a May 1918 General Headquarters (GHQ) Instruction on aerial observation for artillery. Duties assigned to observation squadrons, it said, included “the observation of precision fire for effect and... at the  Page 14 of 423 5%  Vuring the war's first year, DOMoINng COnsisted larpeiy Of uncoordinated, OPportulustic attacks Dy alfCrews lying reconnaissance missions. 1 hese