ctual material damage done to works.”* Trenchard’s view, however, took Tiverton’s definition to an illogical extreme and made damage assessments a functional irrelevancy by  Page 30 of 423 9%  a divergence that had a major influence on mn the development of British and American damage-assessment capabilities before and during the Second World War. The third, Lieutenant Colonel Edgar: S. Gorrell, an American airman, adopted Tiverton’s ideas nearly verbatim. His writings during and after World War I had a profound influence on the development of American strategic bombing doc- trine and by extension the intelligence capabilities required to support it.  The development of British damage-assessment capabilities in the war’s final year and throughout the interwar period revolved around the acrimonious debate between Tiverton and Trenchard, who became RAF chief of air staff in the immediate postwar period. These officers had profound disagreements about bombing, and both used available intelligence reports, such as they were, to advance their opposing views. As we will see, Allied commanders did this several times during the Second World War, with some profound effects on the course of both the heavy-bomber effort and larger strategic debates. In the case of the opening debate, although neither Tiverton nor Trenchard appears to have looked directly at damage assessment, Tiverton’s theories implicitly acknowledged its crucial importance in determining bombing’s effects and effectiveness, while Trenchard’s focus on morale bombing implied that detailed damage assessments would be either less important or superfluous.  Tiverton  As previously noted, Tiverton’s staff work was remarkable for its grasp of industrialized warfare and the potential vulnerabilities of an enemy’s war industry. His study of German industry as a collection of target sets, based on functional specialization, made him the first theoretician of aerial warfare to do so. Tiverton said the first thing to co