bjectives beyond the range of artillery,” American intelligence specialists had their first serious test.14 Before that, as they trained, they read a May 1918 General Headquarters (GHQ) Instruction on aerial observation for artillery. Duties assigned to observation squadrons, it said, included “the observation of precision fire for effect and... at the same time, reconnaissance and photography, to determine the effect produced. ... This information is collected in each air unit by the intelligence officer attached, who communicates it at once to the Intelligence Section and the artillery information officer.”1>  The Air Service report on the Meuse-Argonne offensive also said “the artillery objectives for the first part of the offensive ... were . .. photographed both before and after firing,” indicating the importance of obtaining photointelligence both for targeting and damage assessments.1£ This gave branch intelligence officers data they needed to assess damage. After they had produced reports for their squadrons’ sectors, they sent copies to the group and wing, where additional intelligence was added and the report forwarded to G-2 (Intelligence Directorate) at GHQ American Expeditionary Forces (AEF).  Another purpose of this intelligence was the provision of rapid (later known as first phase) and fused reports containing photointelligence, sketches, and POW reports to the artillery information officer and higher echelons of command. The artillery officer used these reports to coordinate artillery and air attacks with specific field artillery units and bomb squadrons. These reports became “the basis for rough sketches in the air unit, provisional interpretation in the army corps. ... The destruction maps are also made up from them.”22 The reference to destruction maps is crucial because it indicates a direct tie between artillery and BDA, and indeed a fusion of such reporting into common intelligence products. Battle maps, produced at corps and army headquarters