have attacked Dresden on their own initiative. We would not have sacrificed the lives of young Americans and our aircraft against a target of limited military significance to the major responsibility of the American Air Force.22  In his masterful work on the bombing, Frederick Taylor agreed in essence with Powell's conclusions. Although a number of East German and other scholars sought to turn Dresden into a simple case of terror bombing, Taylor argues it was far from such a thing. It was a major administrative area and the largest unbombed city in Germany, and its rail and electrical grids made it vital to German defensive efforts given the city’s proximity to the front. The reality, he says, was messy and complex, but the Allied aim was simple: to do whatever was necessary to end the war quickly and reduce Allied casualties to the greatest possible degree. There were 21,271 registered civilian burials according to German records—a horrendous figure in its own right, but nothing approaching those pro- vided in many postwar works.122  Sebastian Cox has also made clear how important Dresden was to the German war effort. By 1944, it was a major industrial, logistical, and administrative center whose importance grew as the Red Army drew nearer. Cox’s examination of Bomber Command intelligence for Dresden is particularly revealing. The city dossier’s intelligence proved woefully outdated, showing only 13 major factories when there were in fact 127. How Bomber Command’s Intelligence Directorate missed this buildup between 1941 and 1945 is difficult to understand given Dresden’s 1941 ranking as 20th of Germany’s 100 major industrial towns. By 1945, had intelligence kept up and in view of the city’s vital position astride the Red Army line of advance, its position would have been much higher. Dresden, Cox concluded, was indeed a vital military target, and the bombing must be viewed in this context and with an understanding that the Grand Alliance wanted the war to end as q