ld happen. From the start of the German building effort, intelligence sources had kept close track of the progress of construction. Yet Bomber Command launched only a few small and ineffectual raids on the U-boat bases during these periods of critical vulnerability, which the air intelligence organization was in a position to point out. Admiral Le Puth, a French officer living in the area during these events, lamented that “some well-placed bombs would have stopped work dead.”22 If there was any hope of slowing or mitigating the U-boat menace, this was it, but the intelligence and operations personnel involved collectively failed to do the job.  American Air Intelligence Specialists Arrive  Operational and ethical failures aside, American participation in these raids on U-boat pens marked the first significant United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) effort and signaled the first serious involvement of U.S. intelligence personnel in the targeting and damage-assessment processes, a key initial step in the development of a mature Allied air intelligence organization.  The first American air intelligence officers to arrive in Great Britain during the spring of 1942 were woefully undertrained by British standards, but they also proved to be quick studies capable of integrating into British air intelligence organizations. One of the great strengths of the Anglo-American intelligence effort was the Americans’ willingness to play the role of acolyte and work within an integrated and British-led organization. The other great strength was the British willingness to teach the Americans everything they knew, treat them as equals, and provide their extensive intelli- gence assets and reports for American use.  This cooperation began, as we have seen, with visits by Majors Cabell and Hutchison to British photoreconnaissance and photointerpretation units in 1941. The recommendations they made had a profound influence on the development of American damage-assessment capabilities. The