ets produced meager results. The profound discouragement caused by these results and the requirement to attack barges in the Channel ports led to the gradual abandonment of this first effort. However, in the process, the British learned much about the value and use of intelligence sources.  The effort against oil and the many other targets during this period was in essence an attempt at “night precision” bombing. Heavy losses in daylight raids during 1939-1940 accelerated the shift to night bombing begun with the disaster at Heligoland Bight in December 1939. The problems with this approach, from an air intelligence perspective, were significant. Strike photographs produced nothing but a series of bright dots, blobs, and lines representing flares, bomb hits, fires, tracers, and the flight paths of damaged bombers. Learning to decipher this information took time, and it was not until late 1941 that such a capability developed in the new Night Sections at CIU and HQ Bomber Command. In addition, pilots’ reports proved to be wildly optimistic.  Unfortunately, the PDU and PIU were not yet mature enough to provide regular poststrike reconnaissance because the handful of PDU Spitfires stayed fully employed in the reconnaissance of Channel ports. Consequently, intelligence available for early oil raids included that used in World War I: pilots’ debriefings, agent reports, and inputs from neutral parties. An overly optimistic view thus prevailed, with MEW reports often listing virtually every target as having been hit. In one such report, of the twenty-two oil targets attacked by at least one bomber during the period 29 July to 11 August, including fourteen crude oil refineries and eight oil plants, three were assessed as having been “heavily damaged and probably out of action,” thirteen as “heavily hit but probably still operating,” and six as “hit but probably still operating.@ All these targets were raided at night, often without moonlight for illumination, and often by s