MARKET-GARDEN, these plans were a last-ditch effort to secure victory in 1944. HURRICANE’s purpose was to deliver a massive blow to a vital target set—oil—and undermine the German ability to resist. (The first variant concentrated on massive bombing of oil and transportation targets in the Ruhr—Harris’s preference; the second on all as-yet-unhit transportation targets in Germany—Spaatz’s preference.) Morale was, in theory, an incidental target. Bufton’s view, based on a 30 September 1944 meeting he chaired at the Air Ministry, clashed with those of his American counterparts. The Americans wanted attacks across Germany, while Bufton wanted concentration on Ruhr oil targets. In his summary, Bufton said, “the Ruhr appeared to be the only place where the concentration in time and space required for the proposed operation could be effected.”1© Participants agreed that USSTAF heavies would attack Ruhr oil plants while Bomber Command concentrated on “selected fully built-up areas in the Ruhr cities which had not as yet been appreciably damaged.”165 The aim was to bring Germany to collapse with massive doses of airpower. Again, morale was clearly a target.  On 13 October 1944, Spaatz and Harris received a directive to plan for HURRICANE I and II.4®2 A circumscribed version of HURRICANE I went forward against Duisburg on 14 and 15 October, and against Essen on 23 and 26 October. Although Bottomley pushed hard to have it called off, Spaatz became a strong supporter—ironic given his resistance to THUNDERCLAP until its final stages. Of course, Spaatz, Arnold, and other true believers were already thinking ahead to air force independence, so this may have been another case of political considerations trumping intelligence. However, Spaatz probably also approved of the focus on oil. The most bizarre thing about HURRICANE I and II was the idea that using raids even more heavily concentrated in time and space would cause a German collapse. The Allies eventually canceled the little-