ure authority over all heavy bombers on 14 April 1944, he ensured Tedder took the lead in directing their pre- and postinvasion employment.  Consequently this meant air command and control, planning, and operations were now under divided authority. In SHAEF, Tedder was responsible for planning heavy bomber operations, while in AEAF, Leigh-Mallory was responsible for tactical planning and operations. The Air Ministry continued to be responsible for POINTBLANK targets and priorities. Consequently, lines of control and communications often became muddled. The real surprise is that it all worked as well as it did. The acrimony and frequent uncertainty about who should control heavy bombers (as opposed to who actually did) and who should select their preinvasion targets, a persistent problem during the preinvasion period and throughout the remainder of the war, had as their root cause these gaping seams in Allied air command-andcontrol arrangements. In short, they were often poorly defined and consequently contested. Only Eisenhower’s and Portal’s strong leadership, with help from Tedder, Spaatz, and Eaker, helped turn a mess into something workable.®  These command issues placed a cap on the potential effectiveness of air intelligence because the fractured and confrontational command-and-control system often led to parochialism and, too often, the outright misuse of intelligence. It also pitted various intelligence organizations against one another on the basis of a combination of loyalty to their masters and a lessthan-perfect development of what we would today call an interagency process in which intelligence organizations share items of value with other organizations. Fortunately, failures to share intelligence occurred rarely, but the intelligence organization writ large was simply too mammoth to allow for anything approaching optimal coordination. Consequently, intelligence chiefs and their analysts sometimes did not coordinate with other organizations, either as a