rican liaison officer at MEW, ensured that American airmen received all available intelligence relating to the bombing effects. This proved a most useful conduit for the provision of MEW damage assessments to American airmen, who read them closely and often used them to frame their operational plans. General Spaatz in particular was deeply impressed with MEW reports on the German oil position (coproduced with the Joint Intelligence Subcommittee’s Technical Subcommittee on Axis Oil) and referred to them frequently in his arguments for an oil offensive in 1944. Eaker and Spaatz also received MEW’s industrial damage reports and weekly armaments reports (assessing the effects of Allied bombing on German armaments production). By sum- mer 1942, Eaker was receiving two copies of every MEW intelligence report, and the number of copies increased in 1943-1944.  An MEW organizational chart given to Eaker and Spaatz explained the functions of each MEW section, including the Damage Assessment Section, which was “responsible for assessing the effect on the enemy’s economy of damage inflicted by air attack, combined operations, sabotage, accidents or other means for the use of Service Departments and other sections of Objectives Department in considering policy, and for the use of other Departments of M.E.W. in assessing current production, etc.”®& This chart came with an agreement that intelligence officers on Spaatz’s and Eaker’s staffs could work directly with MEW analysts on all issues.  A similar record of close cooperation also developed quickly with RE8. Although this vital organization was initially established to support RAF Bomber Command, it quickly became a primary provider of damage assessments to 8th Air Force and, in 1944, 15th Air Force. American airmen came to value RE8 damage reports highly. They proved quite valuable in the Americans’ efforts to determine the effects and effectiveness of their bombing, proper timing for reattack of various targets, and the effe