y eo eee eee Oe ee ae a eS eee ee eee eee ee ee es eee eS eee ee ee eee ee Se ee oe increasingly severe damage. By the time the dust settled and the fires went out, nearly 2,300 buildings had been destroyed or severely damaged, and 60 percent of the town was burnt out. Once again, aerial photographs confirmed damage and facilitated detailed analyses.22  With Bomber Command now committed to incendiary raids, Harris placed great emphasis on the development of bombing tactics, techniques, and navigational aids. The Intelligence Directorate expanded as damage assessments, far from merely providing photographic interpretation and written analysis, began to influence selection of future targets. As German towns came under sustained attack, assessments produced at CIU’s K Section and at Bomber Command’s Intelligence 1 (Target Intelligence and Damage Assessment) Section (designated Int. 1) told airmen whether a town required immediate follow-up attacks or was so heavily damaged that bombers could move to the next objective. To assist with this process, Int. 1 built an industrial card index that gave analysts access to specific information on towns and their industries. This intelligence came from MEW, CIU, and the air staff. From there, Int. 1 built photo mosaics of all major cities, noting high-value targets. The CIU provided photos for this massive effort, which was well under way by early 1942. At the same time, Int. 1 built town dossiers for every major town, including all available information of interest to Int. 1’s officers. Finally, Int. 1 determined whether each raid’s concentration and scale merited photoreconnaissance cover for damage-assessment purposes. If so, a request went to the assistant director of intelligence, photography (ADI(Ph)), and from there to the PRUs for aerial photos and to CIU K and N Sections for immediate and detailed interpretation reports.*1 These new procedures were put to the test during the largest city attacks yet: the thousand-plane r