ility, RE8 personnel also produced a report on reconstruction, noting that the factory complex’s productive output had been reduced by perhaps 40 percent until at least December 1944. This degradation resulted from the first three raids and another three flown in May and July. The total weight of attack on Essen was nearly 7,000 tons, almost evenly divided between high-explosive and incendiary bombs.14  Frequent raids on cities throughout the Ruhr and further afield continued with increasing ferocity from March through September. Essen, Dortmund, Diisseldorf, Wuppertal, Bochum, Krefeld, and Milheim were largely burnt out. Outside the Ruhr, Cologne, Aachen, and Hamburg suffered severe damage. The latter, attacked on 27-28 July, was engulfed in the largest firestorm yet caused by British bombing. One of the most significant things about this raid, aside from its destructiveness, was the accurate Pathfinder Force marking and main-force bombing of a target well outside the range of Oboe. Another was the use of chaff, which the British called Window. Window, which was composed of bundles containing thousands of strips of aluminum foil, blinded German radar, which as yet lacked moving target indicators. British bombers were thus able to attack cities with little resistance until moving target indicators became available to the Germans in August 1943. This period also encompassed the opening attacks in Harris’s grandest scheme: the battle of Berlin, which he expected to result in German capitulation but instead nearly destroyed Bomber Command. In fact, as the Germans adjusted to British night tactics and devised countermeasures, the British loss rate climbed to 7 percent or more per raid, a price Bomber Command simply could not pay if it was to continue as an effective fighting force.*  By the time the battle of the Ruhr ended and the battle of Berlin began, Bomber Command had done grievous damage to many cities. An RE8 bomb damage assessment report assessed the effects of