erted effort, heavy bombers destroyed the huge railroad viaduct at Bielefeld, over which much of the Ruhr’s coal and steel passed. The Germans built a single-track bypass, but the Allies kept it out of action.114  As the CSTC determined damage to transportation networks, German POWs added their insights. They confirmed the effectiveness of these raids and related numerous instances of long delays in rail movement. One said his unit’s move from the Sudetenland to Cologne (normally a two-day trip) took ten days. Another said trains from Heidelberg to Cologne (a distance of 135 miles) took ten to twelve days. A third said he was supposed to leave Kassel for Cologne (115 miles) on 5 January but left 19 January. His journey then took ten days. It would have been much quicker to march!14%  As Germany’s transportation system collapsed, so did its remaining oil production. By March, all Bergius plants were out of action. Only the Ruhland and Harburg refineries were still operational. Benzol production was on the wane, with two-thirds of all benzol plants captured or out of action.146 Yet the Germans would not admit defeat. Repairs at Zeitz, assessed as destroyed, had the plant producing at 25 percent of capacity. It went back on the target list. This tenacity prompted the CSTC to say, “It was universally agreed that we should pursue oil to the last drop.”/42 Heavy attacks the next week brought oil output to an all-time low. Production estimates for March were 250,000 tons of refined products (18.5 percent of preattack), of which only 50,000 tons was gasoline (9.5 percent of preattack).442 The CSTC said,  In view of the success of the attack on [fuel] production the bulk of the enemy’s inadequate supplies in the critical phase of mobile warfare now commencing will consist of whatever can be squeezed out of distributional stocks. Recent cover shows that efforts are being made to mobilize all such stocks. Experience of past attacks indicates that damage to the loading faciliti