oat fleet. To hamper rail shipments, MAAF bombers continued attacking marshaling yards and interdicting bridges between Ploesti and the Eastern Front.22  By the end of July, production of finished POL products had dropped from 1,360,000 tons in March 1944 (the preattack total) to 673,500 tons (49.5 percent of preattack total). Shipments from Ploesti had nearly ceased as a result of mining of the Danube and attacks on Ploesti’s marshaling yards and bridges between there and the east. Continuing raids on Ploesti had nearly brought fuel production to a standstill. Less heartening, however, was the faster-than-expected repair of German oil plants.122  Rv the middle of Ausust these efforts nit Lena Zeitz and Rohlen hack in nraductinn Outnut was also ahout to resiime at Masdehurs Schalven Gelsenkirchen-Nordstern Pélitz, and Wesseling All  Page 269 of 423 63%  including bulk breaking and blending.™ Air intelligence officers missed these crucial facts.  Increasing RAF Contributions and Overall Effects  As intelligence officers struggled with questions surrounding the efficacy of attacking fuel depots, Bufton sent a memo to Portal on 7 July 1944 noting that there was as yet no formal directive for Bomber Command attacks on synthetic oil plants in the Ruhr. He said that destroying these plants was vital to the campaign’s success. As Bufton noted, “Not only because of the intrinsic importance of these plants, but also in the interests of the prestige of the R.A.F. vis-a-vis the Americans, I consider it of extreme importance that Bomber Command should achieve success against the Ruhr plants without delay. The urgency of the task is such that the Americans must destroy them if Bomber Command do not.”26 The circumstances surrounding Bomber Command’s major and continuing contributions to the oil campaign are complex and not entirely clear. As Webster and Frankland make clear in their official history, Air Ministry officers, including Portal and Bufton, very much wanted increased B