bombardment squad- rons, calling it “the principal new element” in the intelligence equation.*2  ML. Ann te oe ee oo 2 nat de et ke a ed Ne ee ke it 2 ee ed dt ne te  Page 22 of 423 7%  The requirement for larger bombs, along with detailed damage assessments, also resulted in organizational and training improvements. By 1918, all reconnaissance and observation aircraft, and 5 to 10 percent of bombers, carried cameras. This required the establishment of photographic and intelligence sections at each squadron, which took months to complete as officers moved through newly established training pipelines to the squadrons. Once at their duty stations, photographic and intelligence officers analyzed photographs depicting the effects of bombs on marshaling yards, supply depots, industrial facilities, aerodromes, and other targets beyond artillery range. This demanded new skills as the number of bombing missions increased dramatically in the war’s final months. New tools such as stereoscopic viewing devices and workstations with bright lighting revealed the contrasts and shadowing in aerial photographs.  By fall 1917, the British Intelligence School was open. The Americans followed suit in July 1918, with the creation of a school in Langres.*2 Before these training centers opened, intelligence officers received no formal instruction in tools and techniques. Whatever training they received was on the job. Photointerpretation skills learned at the schools helped officers assess bombing results and work effectively with photographic officers.  Emerging Air Intelligence Organizations  In 1918, the French Army General Headquarters of the Armies of the North and Northeast published Study and Exploitation of Aerial Photographs, illustrating advances in photointerpretation and, by extension, damage assessment. This foundational document, translated into English, influenced British and American BDA development. One of its crucial conclusions said, “the study of aerial photographs mus