d none afterward. Of the depot’s 125 storage tanks, bombers destroyed 60. AUSSTAF ground-survey team discovered that most of these tanks had contained gasoline. The Standard Oil plant adjoining the depot was also severely damaged. It had produced 2,200 tons a month of lubricants for German tanks.2 Similar stories played out at scores of depots.  Attacks increased during the summer. On 2 August, bombers raided the huge depots at Bordeaux and Lyon, destroying 1,850,000 gallons of fuel.£2 In late August, they savaged the underground storage depot at Montbartier.®2 A ground survey of this facility on 16-17 December gave the Allies a detailed understanding of how fuel depots were structured, including the vulnerabilities of the pump house, loading facilities, pipelines, and electrical system. The team’s report recommended 1,000-pound semi-armor-piercing bombs for future attacks, some set to several hours’ delay, which would penetrate deeply enough to destroy buried storage tanks and damage other key components. It also recommended incendiaries to start fires.22  Survey reports from Gennevilliers and Montbartier provide another reminder that intelligence specialists and operational commanders were constantly involved in an iterative learning process allowing them to enhance the effectiveness of future attacks. One of the most important lessons from Montbartier was the discovery that 1,000-pound bombs could rupture underground storage tanks, something previously thought impossible. By October 1944, intelligence personnel understood depots well enough to recommend fighter-bombers and medium bombers attack them to destroy tank wagons, depot loading facilities, and sidings, while heavy bombers attack underground storage tanks with 1,000-pound bombs. This division of labor proved effective.*+  Analyzing and Exploiting the German Fuel-Distribution Process  These attacks also profited from an increasingly sophisticated understanding of the German fuel-distribution system, allowi