nd refineries, which stayed out of action. And recon- naissance pilots still brought in enough photos to provide a good idea of damage done and rate of repair, as did Ultra intercepts.  One of the most glaring indications of severe fuel shortages was the painful process of moving the 6th SS Panzer Army to the Eastern Front. An intercepted message from the director general of armed forces transport noted the central role of fuel shortages in delaying the movement of units to marshaling yards.1£° Equally troubling, in the east, “Since August 1944 there has been an acute shortage of liquid fuel of every description in Army Group Nord. As a result, operations by Panzer Troops and Air Forces have been temporarily reduced to a minimum. Only some 100 aircraft have been operating daily in the whole of the area of Army Group Nord during this period.”181  German POWs who served on the Eastern Front in summer and early fall 1944 and were transferred to the west highlighted the disastrous fuel situation in the east. They said, “the Russians encircled the Germans again and again, moving ahead faster than the Germans could retreat. ... Supplies were sent everywhere except where most needed. General chaos existed.”+82 Another said, “Gasoline is particularly lacking. In most instances supplies and artillery are moved by horse-power, therefore, very slowly. In addition to the gasoline shortage, Allied bombing of rail lines has further disrupted supply lines.”183 Ultra intercepts and POW interrogations corroborated one another increasingly as fall turned to winter and the German fuel position worsened.  The geography at the southern end of the German lines facilitated an effective effort to cut off fuel supplies and avenues of retreat through Rumania and the Carpathians in late summer and fall 1944. Group Captain J. C. E. Luard, chief of MAAF intelligence, produced a paper examining “the possibilities of aid to the Russians through attacks on the Balkan communication system by Italia