so faster with raids on these plants.  Albert Speer noted another shortcoming in oil attacks during a postwar interview: “It was our good luck that you always gave us a little [more] time between attacks than we needed for reconstructions so that it was possible for us to maintain production for a short time. Your attacks were repeated approximately every eight weeks. I needed approximately six weeks for reconstruc- tion.”12 Nevertheless, Speer was also very clear about the oil offensive’s significant impact on the ground campaign, stating that it played a vital role in the speed of the Allied victory:  Summarizing the situation I have to say that seen from my side of the picture the American attacks with the effect as of May 1944 brought about the decision of the war, the attacks on the hydrogenation plants were so extensive that our troops on the front could not be supplied with the necessary amount of fuel. Even without the supply from Rumania we would have been ina position to keep the troops supplied with fuel, possibly this material would have been a little scarce. Without the attacks we could have maintained a constant flow of fuel to the front.  Speer’s meaning here was clear and crucial. When oil attacks reduced fuel production and transportation attacks disrupted the distribution pipeline in late summer 1944, fuel supplies became unreliable and insufficient.4 Although Speer’s postwar comments were often self-serving, this one and the others in this chapter merely confirm what Allied air intelligence personnel already under- stood to be the case—a fact made abundantly clear in previous chapters.  Up to May 1944, heavy-bomber crews had dropped 509,206 tons of bombs on enemy targets, but only 5,670 (1.1 percent) on oil targets. From 12 May 1944 to 8 May 1945, they dropped 191,256 tons on eighty-seven German oil-producing targets (sixteen hydrogenation plants, nine Fischer-Tropsch plants, forty refineries, and twenty-two benzol plants). They made a total of 27