upreme importance of improving our navigational methods,” pushing for development of a target-marking capability embodied in what came to be known as Pathfinder Force. These elite crews, brought together in August 1942, received special training to drop target-marking flares of various colors, guiding the main force to target. Cherwell also advocated rapid fielding of Gee, a radio aid to bombing and navigation that allowed aircrews to drop ordnance at the intersection of radio beams coming from transmitting stations in Great Britain. Although by no means a precision capability in its own right, Gee (and later Oboe) allowed Pathfinder Force to find cities and drop flares for the main body of bombers. Gee therefore allowed an unprecedented concentration of bombs around aim points. Cherwell also played a role in  Page 113 of 423 29%  get dossiers with all available CIU damage assessments and other materials. The CIU continued producing damage assessments, sharing the process for night raids with Bomber Command.  By mid-1941 the photographic development units (PRUs) and CIU were maturing. The arrival of eight photointerpreters from Bomber Command to augment K (Damage) Section provided a major boost in experience, especially for interpretation of night photographs. Bomber Command's Directorate of Intelligence had advanced this process since the first night strike photos, produced in May 1940, provided clues but also mysteries about bombing accuracy and effects. During the succeeding year, photointerpreters at Bomber Command and the CIU worked hard to solve these mysteries. By summer 1941, they could tell where bombs were falling, how decoy fires affected accuracy, and the degree to which the position of each aircraft in the bomber stream affected its accuracy. The latter revealed a tendency for bombs to creep back from aim points. As fires spread, aircrews toward the back of the bomber stream bombed the leading edges of those fires, resulting in poor accuracy. In Februar