rst option, but development of colored flares with increased burn times proceeded rapidly. By 1942, burn times were up from three to seven minutes, giving Pathfinders the tool they needed to light the way for the main body.22  Air Intelligence Supports the Shift to City Bombing  Page 113 of 423 29%  summer 1941, they could tell where bombs were falling, how decoy fires affected accuracy, and the degree to which the position of each aircraft in the bomber stream affected its accuracy. The latter revealed a tendency for bombs to creep back from aim points. As fires spread, aircrews toward the back of the bomber stream bombed the leading edges of those fires, resulting in poor accuracy. In February 1942, the CIU established N (Night Photography) Section to improve damage-assessment techniques.1£ Long before this, however, increasingly effective interpretation of night strike photos and bomb damage allowed the British to see just how inaccurate their bombing really was, driving a change of fundamental importance in bombing doctrine and operations.  The Butt Report and the Move to City Bombing  This change was a rapid move toward night city bombing. The pictures included several hundred night strike photos from missions in June-July 1941. Lord Cherwell, Churchill's scientific advisor, who believed bombing to be highly inaccurate, directed his secretary, D. M. B. Butt, to examine the photos and determine how badly aircrews were bombing. The Butt report, published 18 August 1941, confirmed Cherwell’s worst fears. Of aircraft actually attacking their targets, only one in three bombed within 5 miles of aim point. Including aircraft failing to bomb for various reasons, the number was one in five. There were also major variations in accuracy depending on target location, industrial haze, and moon state. The worst accuracy was against the Ruhr, which was often covered in haze, where only one in ten sorties bombed within 5 miles of the target. During full-moon periods, the figur