t. Approaching these campaigns from an air intelligence and operational perspective, rather than a purely operational one, highlights their significance.  On a less positive note, there were also instances in which political and military leaders ignored available intelligence, refused to guide their actions according to the insights it provided, or twisted it to suit their own arguments about strategy and operations. The consequences of this behavior ranged from strains within the Anglo-American camp to the unnecessary commitment and loss of aircrews over Nazi-occupied Europe. Clearly, intelligence had its limits. It was an inherently political commodity working within a huge and often adversarial command structure and the world’s first intelligence interagency structure.  Nor were heavy bombers and their intelligence support war winners in any sense of the term. The tide had turned against Nazi Germany long before bombing reached the level of intensity, in 1943-1945, required to do grievous and lasting harm to the Reich’s war effort. Nonetheless, once the effort got into high gear, an air armada of over 4,000 heavy bombers damaged Germany’s war economy so severely and hampered Wehrmacht operations in the field so extensively that instead of meeting a well-supplied and mobile opponent on the Reich’s frontiers, Allied and Soviet armies met opponents with cataclysmic fuel and ammunition shortages and a basic inability to engage in any kind of mobile or sustained operations. Casualties inflicted in early 1945 by a mortally wounded and operationally compromised German army can only lead us to the conclusion that things would have been even worse—in fact, much worse—without the bombing campaigns. Heavy bombers and intelligence thus provided a decisive edge in the effort to end the war quickly and with the lowest possible loss of soldiers’ lives.  Anumber of individuals and institutions provided the counsel and support necessary to produce this work. My adviser at Ohio St