ts for USAAF “precision” and the emerging RAF “night precision” techniques, both visually and because of their distinctive radar returns. Finally, Tedder’s assertion that he was “not sure of the real vulnerability of the new synthetic oil plants,” if true, made Tedder one of the very few senior officers who had not read the detailed intelligence reports compiled on hydrogenation  Page 194 of 423 48%  least a week and possibly more to move three or four divisions from east of the Pas de Calais area to west of Paris by rail.44  The thirty-four French and Belgian marshaling yards selected by the RRS as the key targets were good from a bombardier’s perspective because they were large and easy to locate. In addition, four of the thirty-four were on electrical lines running from Paris to Bordeaux and Lamont. Destroying these installations and their power stations would require diversion of 500 to 900 steam locomotives to make good the losses. Attacking another thirty-nine German marshaling yards near the French border and therefore within range of Oboe would enhance the attacks’ effects. Finally, RRS analysts noted that sabotage by Special Air Service (SAS) and Maquis teams would also take a toll 42  The fact that the RRS proved correct on all counts was a testament to its expertise and the Allies’ ability to use intelligence gathered from previous campaigns. Zuckerman’s reports on bombing in Italy also had a huge influence on the transportation offensive’s planning and execution. He concluded his insights with the suggestion that cutting rail lines would not work, and that “careful reconnaissance” would be required to determine the effects and effectiveness of attacks. The experience in Italy, along with RRS opinion, made clear the efficacy of bombing marshaling yards to iso- late the Normandy battle area.4#  Just before the release of this AEAF report, which included insights from the RRS and Zuckerman, Air Vice Marshal H. E. P. Wigglesworth, AEAF senior air staff offic