scope, and duration of air campaigns must be clear, achievable, and bounded by realistic target selection and an intellectually honest conclusion that attacking selected targets will lead to achievement of stated objectives. To this problem we must add another: the inherent difficulty of gauging the usefulness of air operations. Unlike ground and naval campaigns, in which the parties involved generally know whether the battle was a victory, a draw, or a defeat, air campaigns are prone to uncertainty, and victory or defeat may become evident only gradually. Ralph Bennett’s concept of “contact evidence” versus “non-contact evidence” is vital here.22 While the victors in ground and naval engagements could rely on the former (direct and sustained contact with the enemy), air commanders relied on the latter, particularly in the early years of the war, when they had access to few intelligence sources on the Continent. This reliance on noncontact intelligence persists because aircraft must return to base after their missions, leaving targets attacked in enemy control. Consequently, there is only one way to determine whether anything approaching victory has been achieved: by using air intelligence assets to collect and analyze results. During the campaigns against Germany, these assets included reconnaissance aircraft, Ultra, lower-grade cipher intercepts, and ground sources, all of which often corroborated one another. Yet photos, signals intercepts, and ground sources never told the full story, and it was up to intelligence personnel to tell the rest of the story on the basis of expertise, experience, and intuition.  Inevitably, however, senior commanders had to make judgments about bombing’s efficacy as well as its potential to contribute to future successes. Consequently, intelligence often became captive to opposing groups of senior commanders who sought to win over their bosses to a preferred course of action. As will become evident, these debates began even before th