luding recommendations for the coming week’s raids. Once the committee estab- lished target priorities, it sent the list to MAAF, USSTAF, and Bomber Command. Staff officers there worked together to decide which targets each command would attack.  Coordination between the JOTC and the MAAF Oil Targets Committee became closer as the offensive developed. Lieutenant Colonel V. L. Forster, a noted oil authority, recommended Flight Lieutenant Kent of the ACIU’s D Section, “our expert oil interpreter,” visit MAAF to teach photointerpreters there the finer points of producing damage assessments for oil targets. He also agreed with General Eaker’s request to assign L. Eisinger, another oil expert, to MAAF as their air staff’s oil specialist. Forster said of Eisinger, “No better candidate could be found and every confidence can be placed in his work and judgment.”© Forster’s efforts increased the quality of damage assessments at the ACIU, where he brought Kent and his coworkers together with leading petroleum engineers.  As these experts lent their services, the JOTC released weekly bulletins and target lists. The inaugural report said Bergius plants at Zeitz and Gelsenkirchen-Nordstern were both out of action until the end of the month, while those at Magdeburg and Bohlen were severely damaged and producing at reduced capacity or not at all. Leuna had been hit only lightly in the most recent attacks and was still producing at nearly full capacity. Briix was hit hard but still producing coal tar to feed Bergius plants in eastern Germany. Pélitz, too, had been heavily hit, but reconnaissance revealed it was receiving the highest priority for repair, given its special equipment for producing aviation fuel. These intensive repair efforts would have it producing at 50 percent of capacity within two weeks. Liitzkendorf also sustained significant damage but would likely be running at 50 percent of preattack capacity within the next week. The rest of Germany’s oil plants and refiner