ave discovered there was no excess rail capacity. There was ample rolling stock, but few locomotives and skilled workers—two of Zuckerman’s key target sets. Also, to assert that military movement could continue across a single line was meaningless because it involved huge transportation bottlenecks, delays, and disorganization. In this case, they also missed the fact that marshaling yards were the central nervous systems for rail networks, and that severe damage to them would produce synergistic effects, including a huge strain on any other open lines.*! The EOU did some outstanding work, but this was not its finest hour.  Finally, the USSTAF/EOU team said it could not verify German petroleum stocks with enough accuracy to know when an oil offensive would start to degrade military operations. They thought it would take several months. Again, had they looked more carefully at British records and analyses, they could have given Spaatz a more accurate answer—and one to his liking, given the almost immediate effects that sustained bombing could have in reducing fuel supplies. As the following chapter makes clear, there was no question about German oil stocks. The only imponderable was how long their dispersed depots would last. As it turned out, they didn’t survive for long due to Allied attacks and the depletion of fuel stocks. The real problem was that calculations provided by oil experts and EOU were based on the amount of oil stocks the Germans had on hand, relative to the current rather than the postinvasion rate of consumption. Nor did the figures take into account likely effects of decreased production as the oil offensive proceeded. Had they included these considerations, they would have been able to counter MEW’s (Mr. Lawrence’s) unduly pessimistic comments about oil attacks at the 25 March 1944 meeting. There is no question, looking at the wealth of available analyses, that oil attacks early in the preinvasion program would have helped almost immediately to re