city within two weeks. Liitzkendorf also sustained significant damage but would likely be running at 50 percent of preattack capacity within the next week. The rest of Germany’s oil plants and refineries were fully operational. The report closed with a table appearing in all JOTC and CSTC Working Committee (Oil) reports. Entitled “Estimated Output of Axis Oil Plants,” it assessed German fuel production for the previous month, the current month, and the next month. The latter two were based on a worst-case scenario, standard among intelligence reports, assuming no additional damage to oil targets. The figure for June was 59 percent of preattack production, which made clear how rapidly the campaign was reducing the Reich’s fuel production.  By late July, an increasingly severe oil shortage was having drastic effects on German operational capabilities. Synthetic oil production plunged to 35 percent of preattack levels (from 495,000 tons to 171,000), while oil reserves plummeted from over 1,000,000 to 573,000 tons. The monthly requirement for unrestricted military operations was 932,000 tons, meaning the Wehr macht faced a 38 percent deficit with worse to come.  Ultra proved the most useful intelligence source for these assessments. Lieutenant Colonel Richard Haines, the foremost Ultra authority in the USAAF, said in his postwar study, “The volume of ULTRA messages available for May and the ensuing months is so great as to preclude the citation of all but a few.” Just as there were thousands of annotated aerial photographs, there were thousands of Ultra intercepts. Although photointerpreters could determine bomb damage with great accuracy, Ultra provided confirmation. A postwar study claimed Ultra reports were the most accurate assessments with respect to oil raids. “This evidence,” it noted, “was so prompt and so persuasive that it may well be considered one of the principal contributions of Ultra to the conduct of the air war.”® Scores of intercepts highlighted severe