r payloads and bombs, including 4,000-pound munitions whose blast effect severely damaged the vital aboveground pipelines that delivered steam pressure, coal sludge, oil, and fuel to the various parts of oil plants, and to the buried electrical conduits and water pipes, without which the plants could not function. Payloads alone indicate the potential disparity in effects. Whereas the RAF bombers in the Briix and Leuna missions dropped 856 tons and 1,304 tons, respectively, the 8th Air Force raid on Harburg, which produced good but more modest results, delivered 187 tons—and this was the largest of the week’s raids by USAAF heavies. Put simply, only Bomber Command  Page 312 of 423 73%  Finishing Off German Oil and Fuel Production  As this cataclysm enveloped German armies in the east, Bottomley and Spaatz issued their third and final bombing directive. It again placed emphasis on the destruction of oil plants and of depots known to store large quantities of fuel.S* This order coincided with two weeks of good weather, which heralded the doom of what remained of Germany’s oil industry. Pélitz was raided the night of 13-14 January and Leuna the following night. In the attack on Pélitz, 218 Lancaster heavy bombers dropped 813 tons of munitions, while the attack on Leuna, carried out by 573 Lancasters, delivered 2,190 tons. On the basis of strike photos and poststrike reconnaissance, the British declared that Politz “had been reduced to a shambles” and Leuna just as severely damaged. These were night preci- sion raids.  Albert Speer said the Pélitz and Leuna raids were some of the “most damaging” made on oil plants. His 19 January memo to Hitler conveyed a growing sense of despair:  My Fiihrer, Since 13 January 1945 anew series of heavy attacks on the oil industry has been introduced, which has already led to prolonged shutdown of the great hydrogenation plants of Pélitz, Leuna, Briix, Blechhammer, and Zeitz, in addition to the complete shutdown during the last quarter o