ir intelligence functions would mature, was clearly well advanced during the early interwar period, not only in doctrine documents and lesson plans, but even more importantly in the cognitive processes of American airmen. One of the most influential in the field of aerial photography was George W. Goddard.44  Goddard’s Contributions  Goddard got his start in the Great War. As one of Mitchell's protégés, he understood aerial photography might well become indispensable to air warfare. After graduating from the Aerial Photography School at Cornell University in March 1918, Goddard instructed there while awaiting assignment overseas. In this position, he became familiar with James Bagley’s three-lens camera that used film rather than plates, had a greater field of coverage than any other camera then in service, and accommodated lenses with different focal lengths. With a viewfinder designed by Goddard, it also provided 60 percent overlap of photos, allowing stereoscopic viewing. Along with the K-1 film camera, which joined it near the end of the war, Bagley’s camera was the mainstay of American aerial photography during the earlv interwar period. The K-1 carried film 9 inches wide with a 75-picture capacity. Thanks to Dr. Kenneth Mees of Eastman Kodak. with whom Goddard develoved a close association over  Page 51 of 423 14%  value of aerial photograpns depends directly on the... training and experience... {or} the persons making use of them. =~ One particularly intriguing insight was the importance of aerial photograpns for change detection as it applied to friendly road traffic. Overhead views of heavily traveled roads could prevent traffic jams and enable traffic dispatchers to utilize roads to the fullest extent.22 Intel- ligence specialists applied this same kind of detailed traffic analysis with lethal effect against German rail, barge, and road traffic during the Second World War.  These insights received further attention in a 1928 ACTS lesson plan with four topi