war by outfighting the Wehrmacht and liberating Europe. The point of this work has never been to obscure this fact, but rather to illustrate the degree to which air intelligence and airpower assisted.  Viewed in this light, the transportation offensive in France and Belgium, and the one against the Reich, were the most important of their kind. Planned and executed with the advance of Allied armies in mind, the latter was also designed to enhance the speed of the Red Army’s advance. Spaatz and Bufton championed bomber support to the Red Army in every bombing effort from early 1944 to VE  Tarr Thin tame alanenat in Cnantole nffarte ta anin Tisanhaurnels annvaual fas tha ail aAffancivrn Ulan carn vanall that naaeler all ail and fual nenduiand at Dlancti rant ta tha Dantaen Deant it hanamas anciae  Page 345 of 423 81%  A similar shift in casualty ratios occurred in the east, as German units, forced to fight too far forward and with too little gasoline as a result of Hitler’s stand-fast orders, the oil and transportation offensives, and poor logistical practices, were captured in much larger numbers from June 1944 to VE Day. Until June 1944, casualty ratios for major campaigns in the east were over 2:1 inthe Germans’ favor. However, when the Red Army’s summer offensive began in June 1944, loss ratios began drawing even. They moved to about 1.4:1 and stayed there.? In the east, as in the west, casualty ratios shifted dramatically once the Germans began running out of gasoline and ammunition. German casualties also soared each time the Allies and the Red Army achieved breakouts that ended periods of static warfare and replaced them with fluid battles that used up the Wehrmacht’s increasingly limited supplies.  Despite these shifts in loss ratios, the Red Army suffered 300,000 casualties per month during the last four months of the war, while the Allies suffered about 50,000 per month. Had the war continued another three months, the Grand Alliance could therefore have suffe