ter August 1942 produced more strike photos, many of which lacked ground detail. In other words, they recorded only fires and explosions on the ground, along with distinctive light patterns made by flak and searchlights. In such cases, photointerpreters had to plot by fires, which involved determining the location, in relation to the aim point, where aircraft released their bombs. The number of cases in which this proved necessary ballooned to more than 500 aircraft per mission on larger raids. Part of this process was a requirement to assess the course of each attack by finding the colored target-marking flares dropped by Pathfinder Force. This drove a need for color film, which was in use by late 1942 and comprised 80 percent of strike-camera film by 1944. When N Section and their Bomber Command counterparts completed this huge task, they sent their work for each raid to the Operational Research Section, where analysts determined concentration achieved and total bomb weight on target. 22  Page 116 of 423 30%  PRU1 had thirty-seven Spitfires and two Mosquitoes attached. The former were capable of housing at most a camera with a 20” lens in their fuselage, but the latter could carry 40” lenses. This proved serendipitous as the F52 camera, operational in January 1942, carried a 36” lens and produced superb 8.5” x 7” photos from altitudes of 42,000 feet. Photointerpreters were deeply impressed by the sharpness and scale of these prints, which allowed them to see previously undetectable details.2®  Intelligence personnel at CIU’s W (Photogrammetric and Drawing) Section used these pictures to develop photogrammetric plans of more than 500 cities and towns and diagrams of high-value targets such as oil plants, marshaling yards, factories, dams, and canal locks. These schematics proved exceptionally valuable once these targets came under sustained attack and allowed the Air Min- istry and Bomber Command to build good target folders by early 1942.22  Photographs from the F