c disorganization. Mr. Lawrence said that he agreed that S.H.A.E.F’s request for the attack of particular targets would not conflict with the intention of causing economic disorganization.”22 This exchange underscored the CSTC’s strategic focus. And after the Allies checked the German advance during the Ardennes offensive, CSTC target lists again reflected a focus on disrupting German coal shipments and war industries.28  In the short term, however, the Ardennes offensive forced a massive shift of bomber assets to attacks on marshaling yards and bridges immediately behind the front. Once again, Ultra intercepts clarified their significant effects. Major raids on Cologne on 21 and 22 December stopped all movement at the Cologne Ehrenfeld and Cologne Nippes rail centers for two days.22 The next week, Army Group B said destruction of railway lines, marshaling yards, and road junctions in the Eifel made the supply situation tenuous.*2 Another twenty intercepts the next week emphasized severe damage caused by interdiction missions.* On 10 January, a message to Army Group G said rail centers at Cologne, Saarbriicken, and Karlsruhe were severely damaged and the traffic situation strained. Repair shops were out of action, many locomotives were unserviceable, and traffic was severely backed up.42  Page 307 of 423 72%  covered targets using H2X if no other option existed. Bombers heading to oil targets should switch to alternate targets—transportation facilities—if weather reconnaissance reported primary targets to be cloud covered. In this case, the best H2X operators from each wing led each raid, “For it is our experience that even two or three wings’ bombs can put these targets out of commission.”22  The Ardennes Offensive: Diversion or Boon?  By December, the CSTC began shifting its focus to military-strategic transportation targets. The SHAEF G-2 representative, Group Captain Morley, said it would be possible “to disorganize the German railways to such an extent as to ca