imize effects. Special Operations Executive representatives and their SAS counterparts focused on railroad lines and signaling devices within 150 miles of the battle area. From the outset, bomb- ing and special operations were closely connected through the targeting-bombing-assessment feedback loop.442  By early July, there were fifty-seven SAS and thirteen Jedburgh teams in France and Belgium. They wasted no time. On 6 July, they dropped four railroad bridges, cut rail lines in twenty-four locations, and attacked supply convoys from ambush with explosives, tire bursters (spikes), and small arms. On 9 July, they wrecked forty-six locomotives, one train, and three bridges.148  On 22 July, SAS teams sabotaged a number of locks along the Seine River canal system. Their recent discovery that the Germans were using canals by night to move troops and supplies into Normandy resulted not only in SAS actions such as this one, but also in belated bombing of canal locks and other infrastructure, with SAS teams advising airmen when barges were fully loaded and hence lucrative targets. Eyes on the ground allowed intelligence personnel to focus on an important target set they had missed altogether in preinvasion analyses.  Two days later, SAS teams were attacking fuel trains and depots; in this case, they destroyed 224,500 gallons of gasoline at a depot in the Pas de Calais. On 27 July, they destroyed a train carrying 158,500 gallons of gasoline, blocking the railroad tunnel where it had sheltered from fighterbombers. The Germans had begun hiding fuel trains in this fashion, making them safe from air attack, but not from the SAS and Maquis, who went after them relentlessly. The same day, the Maquis annihilated a column of 116 supply trucks in the Sa6ne-Loire department. In addition, SAS teams destroyed more canal locks on the Seine, holding up fuel shipments to the front; and the Maquis destroyed several barges carrying 100,000 gallons of fuel on the Niévres River near its conflu