ade loading at marshaling yards much easier, which was an absolute necessity, given reduced sorting and throughput capacities and the breakdown of Reichsbahn command-and-control capabilities. However, it made resupply at the front much slower because trains had to make multiple stops to deliver their one item. This also meant more long-distance supply hauls by trucks since they had to make the drive more often to pick up each item. There is, however, no indication that intelligence or British foreign office personnel ever recognized these important effects of transportation attacks.  Mav Aid thar vanlinn haus cienifinantls tranonartatian attanle affantad tha Daish’e dionavend umvindiuotviag Dacturarintarradatiane hauravar madathio slanye Nour hata cann Dambhar Cammandal’e sitter  Page 328 of 423 77%  Oe a _ I  Second, the Ardennes offensive pulled bombers away from many targets best suited to reduce coal deliveries. Nevertheless, in the latter case, air attacks starved German armies of fuel and ammunitio: and damaged rail centers through which much of the Reich’s coal moved.122 Despite the intensity of heavy-bomber attacks, the Germans could normally move enough trains to provide a bare minimum of fuel, coal, and component parts for weapons in between attacks. Given the bad fall and winter weather, as well as the inaccuracies of blind bombing, aircrews could not keep rail centers entirely inoperative. Nor could reconnaissance aircraft reliably deliver poststrike cover. As Speer noted:  = re ne =  After the transport of coal by rail had fallen off, owing to traffic difficulties, its transportation by canal became decisive in the maintenance of industry in central Germany. . . . It was possible to maintain industrial production in Germany on an emergency basis thanks to the fact that we always succeeded in pushing through emergency traffic [by rail and barge] for one or two days be- fore the next attack.128  Similarly, Speer said there was always enough fuel for indus