lay on attacks by 8th Air Force heavies or 9th Air Force medium bombers. The process of locating depots and piecing together the administrative structure within which they operated was complete by 1944. All operations were handled by the Wirtschaftliche Forschungs G.m.b.H. (Economic Research Co.), known by its German acronym, WIFO. This organization controlled Wehrmacht fuel supplies. There were eleven main depots (Hauptlager), nine confirmed by reconnaissance cover, where blending of fuel and additives such as benzol and alcohol occurred before shipping. The WIFO infrastructure also included eight transit depots (Umschlaglager)—rail loading points for fuel moving on the Elbe and Danube. Army command depots (Nachshublager) were also important. WIFO employees here filled drums for movement to field depots. Photoreconnaissance confirmed nine of these depots. Army personnel ran field depots below this level.22  With this intelligence in hand, bomber crews attacked most of the depots, in several cases causing severe damage. Nienburg, an exceptionally well-camouflaged WIFO underground aviation fuel- storage depot, was attacked on 5 August by 176 8th Air Force heavy bombers, dropping 1,330 1,000-pound bombs “with very satisfactory results.” These large weapons proved effective against buried storage tanks, pipelines, electric cables, and loading points. Fires raged out of control for days, and special firefighting teams had to come from Bremen and Hamburg to put them out. Damage to rail and barge loading facilities was severe. The depot was inactive for the next six to eight weeks but was working at about 60 percent capacity when captured in 1945, indicating that more frequent at- tacks were necessary. This was a problem with depot attacks across the board.  Intelligence personnel learned too slowly that destruction of distribution facilities shut down operations. Denial of fuel was just as important as its destruction. A CSTC survey team said, “The amounts of fuel destro