also believed there was no evidence that “the Oil plan can, in the short term available, seriously affect the enemy ability to meet the OVERLORD assault.”22 He continued:  The transportation plan is the only plan offering a reasonable prospect of disorganising enemy movement and supply in the time available, and of preparing the ground for imposing the tactical delays which can be vital once land battle is joined. It is also consistent with POINTBLANK. Since attacks on Railway centres have repercussions far beyond the immediate targets, attacks on such centres within the REICH will certainly assist in creating the general dislocation required for OVERLORD. Moreover, since the Railway system is the one common denominator of the whole enemy war effort, it may well be that systematic attack on it will prove to be the final straw.22  The stage was set for what appeared to be the final showdown, with Eisenhower presiding. It was, as it turned out, just part of an even longer saga that ultimately incorporated arguments about complementary oil and bridge attacks and the imbroglio with Churchill and the War Cabinet regarding civilian casualties.  As the preinvasion bombing debate got into high gear, Spaatz and Harris became particularly concerned about the potential transfer of their commands to Leigh-Mallory’s authority. Neither of them had any confidence in the original plan or the improved version. They had other ideas in mind for their heavy bombers, in Spaatz’s case a continued all-out effort against the Luftwaffe, and in Harris’s, continued city bombing. Indeed, nobody felt it would be wise to give Leigh-Mallory operational control of the heavies. On 22 and 24 January 1944, Tedder and Spaatz agreed that Eisenhower, and Tedder as deputy supreme commander, should assume control of all heavy bombers rather than see Leigh-Mallory and the AEAF staff have them. They agreed to make this happen “no matter what kind of organization was directed by topside.”®! Eisenhower agreed