itary action by the responsible commanders that in their opinion might militate against the success of ‘OVERLORD’ or cause additional loss of life to our Allied forces of invasion.”1°2 As it turned out, casualties amounted to less than half those stipulated in the final guidance (fewer than 10,000 civilian deaths), with about 4,750 people killed in the raids.1%  The Transportation Plan: Approval and Planning  Churchill remained dissatisfied, but Eisenhower’s unwavering support for the plan and Roosevelt’s equally unwavering support of Eisenhower decided the issue. On 16 May 1944, three weeks before D-day, Churchill advised Eisenhower and the chiefs of staff that the War Cabinet had decided to let matters rest. In a minute to Eisenhower and General Ismay for the Combined Chiefs of Staff, he said it appeared to him that “we shall be able to keep well inside the 10,000 limit of French killed before D-day. Therefore I believe the Cabinet will be content not to press this matter further. ... The President’s message leaves the matter in the hands of ‘the responsible military commanders, and I suggest that the matter should be dropped.”1% The long series of preinvasion arguments, with intelligence al- ways at or close to the center, had finally concluded. The bombing effort, now comprising rail, bridge, and oil attacks, got into high gear.  Perhaps as a sign of his confidence in the outcome of the 25 March 1944 meeting, and of his intelligence insights, Tedder had already formed the Transportation Targets Committee (TTC, later changed to the Railway Targets Committee, or RTC) two days before the meeting. The RTC was designed to assist him with the direction and control of attacks on French railways. It included most of the members of the recently disbanded Transportation Intelligence Committee, including Zuckerman and Hughes. The TTC used the myriad damage assessments produced during the transportation offensive to assess damage to each target, update its weekly target pri