ets in December 1940, when PDU Spitfires began taking poststrike photos regularly and PIU interpreters began producing damage reports, it quickly became clear that aircrews al- most always missed their targets.  Results of raids on the two oil plants at Gelsenkirchen during the first three weeks of December 1940 proved discouraging. A total of 196 mediumbomber sorties delivered 260 tons of bombs, with the vast majority of aircrews claiming accurate bombing and significant damage. In fact, only minor damage was done, and few bomb craters were visible on aerial photos. Most bombs had fallen out- side the area of coverage, meaning aircrews missed by 2 miles or more.  Dewdney added to this gloomy picture with his assertion that intelligence analysts at MEW had badly underestimated the weight of attack required to destroy oil targets. He also pushed for the use of 500-pound bombs, saying they had done the most damage. Dewdney pointed out that a recent German raid on the Anglo-American Company fuel depot at Purfleet using 500-pound bombs had done serious structural and fire damage to a number of storage tanks. “The experience at Purfleet,” Dewdney said, “seems to suggest the value of heavy demolition bombs as compared with light splintering bombs in attacking storage, and if the tendency to brick up tanks in enemy territory evinced by recent photographs of [Target] A.2 [Deutsche Vacuum crude refinery in Bremen] is carried further, the use of the heavy bomb is further supported.””¢ Tests later confirmed Dewdney’s view that pound for pound, the 500-pound bomb was much more effective than the 250-pound version. Dewdney also called for the use of bombs with delayedaction fuses to keep repair crews at bay and inflict additional damage by setting leaking oil and fuel afire.  Most important for the development of damage-assessment capabilities, however, was Dewdney’s decision to obtain data from the Ministry of Home Security on effects of German attacks on British oil plants and