sits must be constantly repeated, at short intervals . . . for it is this recurrent bombardment . .. which interrupts industrial production and undermines the public confidence.”22  These ideas received wide circulation among airmen during the 1920s and 1930s, and they took hold with a tenacity difficult to overemphasize. What has been less noted is Gorrell’s primary focus on providing decisive assistance to armies. This idea that bombers should engage in operations of the greatest benefit to the advancing ground forces took root among interwar American airmen, even those such as airpower zealots Arnold and Spaatz, who never turned their backs on Gorrell’s idea that bombers could do a great deal in conjunction with ground forces. This had major implications for advocacy of target sets during World War II. Gorrell’s ideas reverberated throughout the interwar period, were inculcated in American airmen and included in bombing doctrine, and had key implica- tions for air intelligence.  Gorrell’s influence became evident in the Air Service's first doctrinal manual on bombardment aviation, published in 1923 under direction of the Office of the Chief of Air Staff. It divided targets into three categories: naval forces, land forces, and assets in “the interior zone of the enemy.” Targets in the latter category included mobilization and training centers; transportation centers; bridges, dams, locks, power plants, and tunnels; war material depots; and industrial centers. “The attack of military objectives in the interior zones of the enemy,” the manual said, “provides a mission for bombardment aviation which cannot be performed by other combatant forces. The importance of such operations cannot be overestimated. .. . Both day and night bombardment will be employed against these targets.”12  Equally noteworthy was an emphasis on air intelligence as the means for conducting targeting and damage assessment: “In each organization of a bombing force there will be a thorough and sy