ch attack by finding the colored target-marking flares dropped by Pathfinder Force. This drove a need for color film, which was in use by late 1942 and comprised 80 percent of strike-camera film by 1944. When N Section and their Bomber Command counterparts completed this huge task, they sent their work for each raid to the Operational Research Section, where analysts determined concentration achieved and total bomb weight on target. 22  The turn toward city bombing had a major influence on the air intelligence directorate at Bomber Command, which underwent a huge expansion. When Air Chief Marshal Arthur Harris took charge in February 1942, he made the chief of his Photointerpretation Section, Squadron Leader Muir-Warden, “Target Advisor to the C-in-C.” His duty was to select the most lucrative city targets and develop detailed target materials. Muir-Warden and his subordinates had amassed copious intelligence on German cities, even if there were still significant gaps that would play havoc with subsequent targeting and damage-assessment efforts. One key product was the annotated town mosaic, updated for every raid, which became the basis for target study and damage assessment. These covered every German city.22  By 1942, when city attacks began in earnest, night strike and poststrike photos were available for every major raid. Intelligence drawn from them became crucial in determining effects. When the shift to mixed payloads of incendiary bombs and Blockbusters began in 1942, Bomber Command intelligence personnel had the skills necessary to assess bomb damage in coordination with the newly formed Research and Experiments Department Eight (RE8). These studies, ultimately produced under an RE8 banner, included maps showing relationships between building densities, construction types, and vulnerability to fire damage. They also noted damage to high-value industrial facilities and likely repair times.24  City Raids Accelerate  Liibeck, built largely of wood, was bombed