Division and other units arrived on the line in early July, the men were tired, had suffered serious losses from fighterbomber attacks, and went into combat in small packets. Their heavy equipment, if it arrived at all, was worn down and constantly low on fuel. Many tanks and other vehicles broke down during the long road marches and were destroyed by fighter-bomb- ers before repair crews could get to them.  The perils of 1st SS Panzer Division were representative of those endured by all units moving toward Normandy and indicated how severely the combination of heavy-bomber and fighter-bomber  Page 222 of 423 5A%  Parachute Div eo” 77th Infantry Div = Leh 7. @ Panzer Lehr pa Rennes Lay J S> @ intantry div 4  | (SWITZERLAND  & The German Order of FRANCE Battle  German divisions in the west. Note how many had to come from outside Normandy in the unsuccessful effort to throw the Allies back into the sea. These are the units the transportation offensive targeted, along with those coming from outside the west. (Mark, Aerial Interdiction, 212)  The fuel situation was crucial. Panzer and Panzer Grenadier divisions carried with them three to five fuel increments (Versorgungssdtze), each allowing a move of 100 kilometers (62 miles) over dry paved roads. This division-level fuel reserve was intended for use after the unit went into combat. In this case, however, 1st SS Panzer Division used most of its fuel merely to reach the front.12° There, it found many fuel depots destroyed by fighterbombers or depleted by other units. In addition, too little fuel arrived on trains, which could only be brought in at night and then only if repair crews managed to repair a bridge over the Seine long enough to get the train over and back before Allied aircraft attacked again.424 To make matters worse for 1st SS Panzer and all other divisions, they had to demotorize by sending their entire complement of trucks to the railheads, now 100 miles or more from the front, to haul fuel, ammunition, a