.3(B) and including representatives from the Air Ministry Plans and Intelligence Directorates and MEW. This development marked the point of departure for what soon became a close working relationship. The committee acted as a forum for sharing intelligence, agreeing on division of labor, and determining the content of each organization's reports. Most importantly, it brought intelligence analysts together, allowing them to build professional relationships. By 1941, the cooperation vacuum gave way to a framework in which each party knew its “lanes in the road.” This proved vital for the production of target materials and damage assessments.*+  During the first year after their agency’s creation in September 1939, MEW analysts had their hands full determining what exactly the nowdefunct Industrial Intelligence Centre had left them. At the same time, they began building an impressive repertoire of sources, which involved an intensive interaction with businessmen, trade associations, and technicians who had knowledge of German industries. The relative stability of Germany’s war economy early in the war allowed MEW analysts to develop a detailed understanding of each industry and track changes as the war progressed and German industries decentralized. These insights increasingly came from reconnaissance coverage, which corroborated other sources while laying open to MEW analysts virtually every installation of note.  As refugees arrived in Great Britain in the wake of German conquests and shared their expertise, MEW analysts built a deep knowledge of economic assets in occupied countries. Initially, these in- sights proved useful for developing an understanding of the Reich’s aggregate economic assets, but they soon became detailed enough to contribute to target folders and corroborate damage reports.*2  Page 98 of 423 25%  Also fortuitous was greater cooperation between the Air Ministry and MEW. ‘The result was an increasingly fruitful relationship i in which MEW brough