l in maintaining Germany’s fighting forces.”2? It concluded that “the enemy’s morale was not sufficiently affected to handicap the enemy’s fighting forces in the field. ... Bombing for morale effect alone... which was probably the excuse for the wide spread of bombs over a town rather than their concentration on a factory, is not a productive means of bombing. The effect is legitimate and just as considerable when attained indirectly through the bombing of a factory.”24  Finally, and most significantly, the American survey noted that bombing effectiveness against an enemy’s war industries required a “careful study” of those industries, their interrelationships, and their vulnerabilities, followed by concerted bombing of key industries and bottleneck targets. The survey recommendations are worth quoting at length because of their implications:  Acareful study should be made of the different kinds of industries and the different factories of each. This study should ascertain how one industry is dependent on another and what the most important factories of each are. A decision should be reached as to just what factories if destroyed would do the greatest damage to the enemy’s military organization as a whole. On these factor- ies the entire available bombing force should be concentrated until it is satisfied that the factory is crippled. Once the plan of bombardment is chosen it should be held to religiously and a choice of immediate targets affected only by weather conditions and airplanes available. Factories should be bombed night and day successively as far as the weather will permit until the desired results are thought to have been accomplished.2=  The italicized portions of the text relate directly to the question of damage assessment, and although the requirement was implicit, it was basic to the success of the entire enterprise. The fact that the survey’s authors were intelligence officers who understood the damage-assessment process as it had developed in 191