uccessful bridge attack was not exactly impres- sive). That role quickly passed to fighter-bombers and “mediums” during the campaign in France, with the “heavies” focusing on larger targets they could reliably hit.  Eisenhower’s decision to adopt the Tedder-Zuckerman plan, but also allow Spaatz to go after oil targets, and AEAF Commander Air Marshal Trafford Leigh-Mallory’s Tactical Air Force commanders to attack road and rail bridges, proved wise.22 It brought an unanticipated but vital synergy in which attacks on these target sets resulted in an insurmountable series of logistical and operational crises for the Wehrmacht. However, the fact that senior leaders, supported by their intelligence chiefs, squabbled for five months over which one plan was best, rather than grasping their complementary effects, was one of the war’s great command and intelligence failures.  Tedder, Zuckerman, and the Transportation Plan  Even before these arguments began, Tedder and Zuckerman had sent their insights from Italy to the Transportation Intelligence Committee (TIC), to assist with discussion of the best means for isolating German units in Normandy. They had a long leg up on the competition because they began planning the transportation campaign four months before competitors even began working on their proposals. The fact that Tedder was Eisenhower’s deputy and a superb airman—and had his superior’s complete and well-earned trust—also brightened the transportation campaign’s prospects for approval.  The TIC was composed of every civilian and military railroad expert, including C. E. R. Sherrington, head of the Railroad Research Service (RRS) and committee chair; Squadron Leader W. Wigglesworth of A.I.3(e) (the Air Ministry’s damage-assessment office); several RAF and USAAF officers from A.1.3(c) (the Air Ministry’s targeting office) and the Allied Central Interpretation Unit (ACIU), including F (Transportation) Section; and others from ground commands spearheading the invasion.