by surprise—and almost entirely out of gasoline. The Wehrmacht’s dysfunctional supply system caused severe operational problems during this surprise winter assault. This predicament came from a combination of severe fuel shortages brought on by the oil offensive; superb Red Army offensive operations; transportation attacks that hampered the movement of heavy weapons, fuel, and ammunition to the front; and the ineffective supply system. All these factors came together in early 1945 to seal the fate of the Reich’s armies in the east.*2  Page 308 of 423 72%  Interdiction of Kaiserslautern rail center during the Ardennes offensive. This raid was one of hundreds by heavy bombers to hinder the movement of troops, ammunition, and fuel to the front. Although this attack was successful, it was just one of many instances where bombers were whipsawed from military-strategic to operational and tactical targets. Nonetheless, these raids served a dual purpose by hampering the German advance while also interdicting the movement of coal and steel. The bright flash is an ammunition wagon exploding. (NARA)  Increasing numbers of POW interrogation reports joined Ultra in late 1944. One such report concerned a German noncommissioned officer who had worked for the Reichsbahn from February 1941 to September 1944. He confirmed damage reports that locomotives were in short supply, that their maintenance was inadequate as a result of the scarcity of functioning repair shops, and that bomb- ing was making the situation steadily worse. He also corroborated specific damage assessments to various marshaling yards.42  Despite serious damage to railroads and canals, the focus on oil was more coherent. At a CSTC meeting in late December, Bufton complained that the transportation targeting process was in disarray and lamented the serious differences of opinion about its proper focus. He said it was time to determine which kinds of attacks (on the economy, on military movement, or on “close support”