strial coal stocks “will be exhausted by the end of November, unless a decided improvement in deliveries has been possible.”13&  Why, then, did coal shipments and the Reich’s war economy not collapse in late fall 1944? There were two main reasons. First, Spaatz and Bottomley viewed oil as a better target and gave it priority. Second, the Ardennes offensive pulled bombers away from many targets best suited to reduce coal deliveries. Nevertheless, in the latter case, air attacks starved German armies of fuel and ammunition and damaged rail centers through which much of the Reich’s coal moved.422 Despite the intensity of heavy-bomber attacks, the Germans could normally move enough trains to provide a bare minimum of fuel, coal, and component parts for weapons in between attacks. Given the bad fall and winter weather, as well as the inaccuracies of blind bombing, aircrews could not keep rail centers entirely inoperative. Nor could reconnaissance aircraft reliably deliver poststrike cover. As Speer noted:  After the transport of coal by rail had fallen off, owing to traffic difficulties, its transportation by canal became decisive in the maintenance of industry in central Germany. . . . It was possible to maintain industrial production in Germany on an emergency basis thanks to the fact that we always succeeded in pushing through emergency traffic [by rail and barge] for one or two days be- fore the next attack.128  Similarly, Speer said there was always enough fuel for industrial purposes because an emergency ration of 60,000 tons per month of motor fuel and diesel allowed key industries to continue operating until destruction of the railroad network in early 1945 caused a catastrophic drop in production.122 Finally, Speer said a pause of only three days in Ruhr raids allowed railroad workers to increase daily wagon allocation from 6,000 to 12,000.14° This gave the Reichsbahn several temporary reprieves during fall and winter 1944-1945, but as the Allies used ever large