ded. Quantity and quality of postraid reconnaissance photos were poor owing to bad weather, meaning there were eight synthetic oil plants whose operational status was in doubt as a result of the absence of damage assessments. These problems pointed to a major resurgence in oil production, from 319,600 (23.5 percent of preattack capacity) in September to an estimated 503,000 tons (37.5 percent of preattack) in October and 641,000 tons (47.5 percent of preattack) in November. Also, benzol plants were now supplying a major portion of the German army’s fuel, and there were over fifty to be attacked.148 Put simply, Bufton and Maxwell were in the unenviable position of seeing that bombing kept oil production at the September level but with fall and winter weather upon them. Still, they had Bottomley’s and Spaatz’s support. Ina memo to Eaker noting that an updated bombing directive was on the way, Spaatz said, “not only should oil continue on first priority, but that attacks against the German petroleum production, distribution, and supply points should be intensified by every means available by all Air Forces. ... New ways must be found to destroy oil wherever it can be found. Our studies have shown that for every ton of bombs dropped by the Strategic Air Forces the Germans are denied 61 tons of oil.”112  Nonetheless, the CSTC had to contend with adverse weather and the addition of benzol plants to the target list. At the first CSTC meeting, Mr. Lawrence of MEW introduced the Working Committee (Oil) report, noting the Ruhr’s synthetic oil and benzol plants accounted for 43 percent of Germany’s synthetic oil production and 67 percent of its benzol. They required immediate attack because re- connaissance cover just obtained on a rare sunny day showed many tank cars in the sidings at these plants. Major Beeson of SHAEF also emphasized the importance of continuing attacks on depots.12°  Bufton also said the CSTC had to show airmen and Eisenhower two things: the effects of con