n targets subcommittee to discuss delaying and disorganizing German mobilization, concentration, and advance by bombing railroad viaducts, marshaling yards, embankments, and tracks in open country. This small body of ad hoc targeteers, including technical advisors such as War Office transportation officers and the superintendent of railroads, drew up a prioritized target list based on the first serious nodal analysis of Germany’s transportation network. They also backed production of a 1,000-pound bomb for use against transportation targets, resulting in a very effective weapon. And in an unprecedented move, they asked the Air Ministry’s director of intelligence for targeting information and data on German bombs. This may have had to do with the fact that the director had finally joined the Bombing Committee as a permanent member. At the subcommittee’s second meeting on 6 July 1938, members discussed German inland waterways and agreed on the following attack priorities: reservoirs serving canals, canal banks, aqueducts, and lock gates. This, however, marked the end of the road for the subcom- mittee, which was subsumed by the Bombing Committee. Fortunately, its functions—picking and prioritizing targets—continued in coordination with the Air Ministry Air Targets Section.  Ina related development, the air staff worked on bombing doctrine, a function it later performed in coordination with the BDU, and determined two types of targets presented themselves for attack: precise targets and target groups. Attacking the former required highly skilled crews capable of precision bombardment, while the latter could be struck en masse with area attacks. The air staff hit upon an interesting solution to this problem that would have significant ramifications for bombing operations during the Second World War. They decided to train 25 percent of Bomber Command’s crews to high standards for attacks on precise targets, while other crews received training adequate for area bombing. U