World War, with some profound effects on the course of both the heavy-bomber effort and larger strategic debates. In the case of the opening debate, although neither Tiverton nor Trenchard appears to have looked directly at damage assessment, Tiverton’s theories implicitly acknowledged its crucial importance in determining bombing’s effects and effectiveness, while Trenchard’s focus on morale bombing implied that detailed damage assessments would be either less important or superfluous.  Tiverton  As previously noted, Tiverton’s staff work was remarkable for its grasp of industrialized warfare and the potential vulnerabilities of an enemy’s war industry. His study of German industry as a collection of target sets, based on functional specialization, made him the first theoretician of aerial warfare to do so. Tiverton said the first thing to consider was the overriding objective, which in this case was to cripple Germany’s war effort. He identified vulnerable industries and within them “bottleneck targets,” individual sites that, if destroyed, would cause the German war effort to collapse. Of these, he placed the chemical industry, in particular nitrogen-fixation plants, at the top of his prioritized target lists. He also produced a number of papers emphasizing the importance of concentra- tion, logistics, navigation, and proper armaments for effective bombing.?  Tiverton was also convinced that to identify the best targets, Air Ministry officers should consult with engineers, industrialists, and technicians. This recommendation prefigured the emergence during World War II of the Ministry of Economic Warfare, and on the American side the Committee of Operations Analysts and the Enemy Objectives Unit, which gathered detailed information on Ger- man industry and made it available to intelligence specialists. Tiverton’s proposals confirm that he understood the feedback loop between targeting, bombing, and damage assessment.2  Finally, Tiverton advocated a shift from amo