s of tank cars in storage depots, marshaling yards, and railheads; and fuel trains underway. When such attacks were not feasible, they were to attack transportation targets. These raids, he said, were highly complementary and would go far toward disorganizing and slowing German troop and supply movements. The objective was progressive disorganization of railroad and barge traffic. Tedder concluded: “By carefully coordinating the operations of the Tactical Forces with those of the Strategic Forces, the attack on German communications can be so developed as to make a vital contribution towards the success of the land campaign and the early defeat of Germany.”24 He did all he could to give transportation targets added emphasis in order to enhance the complementary effects they produced together with oil attacks. Heading for home after attacking an oil refinery near Hamburg. This strike photo shows the Americans hit their target through solid cloud cover. Black smoke from the burning refinery is rising through the clouds. Poor fall and winter  weather forced the Allies to bomb through cloud cover, often missing the target and causing serious collateral damage. However, the r  ults were sometimes very good, so high weight of effort and frequent attacks became the norm to keep German oil production and rail movement low during winter 1944-1945. (USAFA)  Despite Tedder’s advocacy, the picture was not entirely rosy. An ACIU F Section report on more than twenty recent attacks on rail centers showed that in no case was throughput entirely impaired. Only four attacks resulted in any interruption in service, and no more than 50 percent in any one case.#4 Sobered by this reminder that even good bombing using the technologies and techniques 72%  Heading for home after attacking an oil refinery near Hamburg. This strike photo shows the Americans hit their target through solid cloud cover. Black smoke from the burning refinery is rising through the clouds. Poor fall and winter weat