ittle doubt that the full effects forecast by the M.E.W. would have been achieved.”11 Portal then tried to soften his message, saying he was pleased Harris had recently shown more initiative regarding oil attacks.  Uneein Bend Laake nn 90 Nannerbae (1 aw afenid La anid Ghat nathina ell Ainilenian wn Af thn eines that tha Ail alan in awathae nanannn 9162 TIA AIA (A At Lalinern vera shall aablincen ave Aliant in tha  Page 280 of 423 66%  TLE CLICLELULIS LOJECreet PUL LAL S SUS SEEOUUI Lila LIE LOU OLUUM LITe 1ETIPULLALING Ul Uli ALLALKo,. filo oldil, Tldilio PUIILOEU UUL, 11d OlallUiils, ULUELS Lilal ALLY KRULL Oil Pidills ollUW IIE olpito Ul LQoUIIIIIIE operation were to be immediately brought to his notice. Finally, he sought clarification. Was he to obliterate oil targets or simply keep them out of action?  Portal asked Bufton to review Harris’s letter and let him know what he thought. Bufton’s first criticism was Harris’s statement that he aimed to achieve “the best overall effect out of available sorties,” when in Bufton’s opinion his aim should have been to “get the best effect on oil.”146 Bufton did admit that nonoil targets might at times offer better prospects for success, but he considered it vital to give oil first priority. As for intelligence, Bufton said the organizations involved (which he knew well, given his cochairmanship of the CSTC) made it as accurate as possible. Bufton also rejected Harris's suggestion that there were more oil attacks than necessary. “In my opinion,” he said, “our attacks at present are less frequent than necessary to fulfil the required purpose.”142 He also contradicted Harris’s claim that photographs of Gelsenkirchen, taken 28 October, showed no signs of activity. On the contrary, “Assessment of cover taken on 28th October showed resumption of production to be imminent.”448 Finally, Bufton said even though the directive did indeed say bombing was simply to keep the oil plants shut down, bad fall weather was making it difficult