g transportation attacks, which made moving oil, ammunition, and reinforcements difficult, this resulted in major operational problems for German forces in southern Russia and speeded the collapse of resistance there and in the Balkans.2©  After the Russians captured Ploesti, a ten-man survey team arrived there. These intelligence specialists compared damage assessments from the campaign with Rumanian damage records and provided detailed reports facilitating the same iterative learning process occurring in the transportation campaigns against the Italian and French railroads. Estimates of lost production during the campaign had been accurate, but most lost production and throughput were caused by general damage from the heavy weight of attack, not from hits on vital components. Modern refineries proved flexible and could simplify refining procedures to decrease product quality even when vital components were heavily damaged. Consequently, the notion of shutting down a refinery by damaging vital components should be abandoned. Instead, aircrews should score the greatest concentration of hits by placing aim points at the center of the installation. Equally important, fire did much greater damage than blast, even if refineries shut down before they were bombed. Similarly, bombs exploding on or just above the surface of the ground caused greater damage than those detonating under- ground. Fragmentation was also more effective than blast because fragments tended to ignite spilled fuel and oil 22  The team made five key recommendations put into practice during later operations. First, stop the bad habit of sending heavy bombers over targets at the same time of day, a practice inexplicable this late in the war. Second, attack with mixed bomb loads to cause maximum damage and the greatest possible delay in repairs. This meant 500-pound bombs with instantaneous tail fusing or a 0.01- second delay, incendiaries to ignite fires, and delay-fused bombs to keep repair crews at ba