zed photoin- terpretation facility, where he had a long discussion with the commanding officer, Wing Commander H. Hemming, and toured the facility.  Cabell said, “The interpretation of aerial photographs requires more than a casual study by the average individual. It requires an exhaustive study by specially trained and experienced men, backed by an organization able readily to obtain factual confirmation of the suspected identity of an object on the photograph.”*3 In a stinging rebuke to the lethargic pace of American air intelligence developments, Cabell asserted, “The compilation of objective folders including target maps is primarily a peace-time activity that must be continued in war time.” Equally important, he continued, was the coordination between British military and civilian intelligence specialists. The key to this success lay in the committee system established to address these issues. These committees provided a forum where experts met frequently to discuss emerging capabilities and solve problems.*4  Cabell was also impressed with the smooth operation of PRU1, and even more importantly with the excellent coordination between this unit and its counterpart, the CIU. He emphasized that  Page 76 of 423 20%  Cabell’s Mission: First Steps toward an Air Intelligence Capability  Air intelligence received its first real push from Major C. P. Cabell, whom Arnold sent to Great Britain in February 1941 to learn about aerial photography and photointerpretation. His May 1941 report played a crucial role in the development of American air intelligence. Cabell’s mission was “to study aerial photography in Great Britain,” a job he did very well. His recommendations, all of which the USAAF adopted, paid huge dividends. These included formation of a USAAF agency to formulate photographic policies and coordinate research, development, testing, and evaluation of new methods for aerial photography; immediate formation of one or more photographic groups, including a photore