r numbers. With this disaster, whatever plans Ludlow-Hewitt might have had for a daytime air offensive against the Ruhr were dashed by government and Air Ministry directives as well as a gradually increasing real- ization that medium bombers could not survive in the daylight skies over or near the Reich.2  The next raid on Germany was consequently a night attack in retaliation for a German raid on Scapa Flow. Flown the night of 19-20 March 1940, it targeted the Hérnum seaplane base on Sylt Island. Fifty medium bombers participated, with forty-one of the crews reporting visual target identification and successful attacks. There was only one hitch: the entire force had bombed the wrong island, one in fact owned by Denmark, a rather embarrassing start to what would be a costly and ineffective bombing effort in 1940-19412  Several important intelligence-related operational realities made themselves clear during this unfortunate gambit. First, photointerpreters at HQ Bomber Command did well interpreting strike photos taken by the few camera-equipped bombers sent on the raid and poststrike photos taken by a Blenheim reconnaissance bomber. Second, a few onboard cameras were already present in the bomber force, a positive development from a damageassessment perspective, and these numbers grew steadily over the next two years. Third, the PRUs and CIU, which soon provided the full range of photographic services required to support a bombing campaign, from taking reconnaissance, strike, and poststrike photos to producing damage assessments, were not yet far enough along in their de- velopment to do these things. Nonetheless, they were evolving rapidly, and as the bombing effort intensified, these capabilities approached maturity.  One of the most glaring deficiencies was the initial contingent of reconnaissance aircraft. The only one with the combat radius to reach Germany—and only its western territories—was the Blenheim bomber, flying at between 10,000 and 20,000 feet and un