iven number of bombs, loss of output is caused most effectively by putting on the heaviest possible attack in the shortest time, rather than by nibbling at short intervals at the target . . . it is clear that one heavy attack causes a considerably greater loss of output due to loss of capacity than a number of smaller ones with the same total of bombs over the same period of time.”22  This also lent credence to Dewdney’s argument for using larger bombs. He later optimistically posited that between 5,000 and 6,800 500-pound bombs would shut down all of Germany’s synthetic oil plants. A more fundamental observation—and a correct one—was that taking out any of an oil plant’s key elements would shut it down for weeks or months. This result would be feasible only if bombers concentrated on one plant until it was destroyed, then moved to the next one. Persistence was vital. Dewdney closed with three observations. First, he said, synthetic oil plants were the most vulnerable of all industrial targets and the most important to Germany’s war effort. Second, dispersion of German bombers into small formations during attacks on British targets showed the ineffectiveness of such an approach, meaning dispersion of British bombers into small packets (which, as we shall see, reached absurd levels during fall 1940) should stop immediately. Third, concerted attacks were crucial for bombing effectiveness. If Bomber Command followed his program, Dewdney said, it would deprive the Germans of 1 million tons of oil in the next six months.®2  Dewdney’s efforts, although insightful, suffered from errors in analysis, largely as a result of the absence of photoreconnaissance cover and other sources. He labored under much less propitious conditions for producing damage assessments than he and his successors did later. Dewdney also fell into the trap of assuming that bombers were navigating effectively to their targets and dropping bombs with an average error of 300 yards—a fantasy figure drama