dition to carrying much heavier bomb loads, RAF bombers could rely on very accurate target marking by a veteran Pathfinder Force. With winter on the way and the large Bergius plants in eastern Germany and southwestern Poland coming back online, Bufton and Maxwell recognized that only Bomber Command could inflict the damage required to keep them out of action. The short winter days made it impossible for USAAF bombers to make daylight attacks. The key was convincing Harris to expand his command’s policing of Ruhr oil targets by adding night precision attacks against distant Bergius plants. On 3 November, the CSTC said that “RAF Bomber Command should give special consideration” to raiding such plants, including Leuna and Politz.122 They continued:  If enemy plants had been successfully re-attacked whenever opportunity occurred, even though still inactive, the enemy would not have been able to achieve the increase of oil production from 23.5% of his pre attack output in September to 32% in October. Over the winter months a further recovery in German oil production can only be averted by seizing the few expected opportun- ities of effecting long term damage to the major productive plants even though these plants may not have resumed production by time of attack. The aim should now be to complete the destruc- tion of all major producers.424  The CSTC thus proved significant in several ways, not the least of which was this pressure on Bomber Command to keep carrying its full weight in the oil offensive—something Harris argued his aircrews had been doing, given weather and tactical limitations. Bufton had the advantage of Portal’s full confidence. He and Maxwell were thus able to convince Portal that Bomber Command attacks on distant Bergius plants were crucial. Harris, however, had just ordered area raids on Cologne and Bochum on nights well suited for oil attacks, after receiving guidance to go after Bergius plants.  Oil Attacks and the Portal-Harris Debate  The result w