ts, design studio experts, and construction engineers.1%  Americans also emulated the British when it came to photointerpreter apprenticeships. “After school training,” the AAFAIS manual said, “interpreters should serve an apprenticeship in several or all units of a Central Interpretation Section. Those who develop a general all-around proficiency and speed make excellent officers for Forward Interpretation Units [stationed at combat headquarters such as 8th and 15th Air Force]. Interpreters who evidence desire and ability to specialize in a particular field should be assigned to duty with the Central Interpretation Section.”1°%  The American school itself was also demanding, with a failure rate of 15 percent. As rigorous as this was, the British school failed over 20 percent of students.12  The Americans also borrowed British course materials and compiled them into an instructional manual still useful today for understanding what photointerpreters were expected to learn and how they interacted with combat intelligence officers at flying units. Each bomb group had two interpreters assigned. Their key job was to interpret bomb strike photos taken by cameras onboard the bombers. The bomb plots photointerpreters produced were defined as “an annotated print which shows the location of each bomb impact in the target area.”1°8 Along with strike attack reports, bomb plots provided a preliminary statement of a mission’s success or failure. For crucial missions, photointerpreters immediately sent teletype messages to interested parties in advance of written reports, which went to the wing, bomb division, numbered air force (8th or 15th), and United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe. A copy also went to the Photographic Intelligence Detachment and K Section at RAF Pinetree for use in the production of formal damage assessments. When reports reached 8th and 15th Air Force, interpreters there compiled a master bomb plot for each mission.1°2 Other information came from the c