ecision in January 1934 to establish the Bombing and Air Fighting committees. The former’s purpose was to “achieve a better measure of coordination between the development of bombing methods and tactics, and the development of equipment required for their efficient application.”2 The presence of a representative from Air Ministry R.D.Arm.4 (Analysis of Bombing Results) was noteworthy. So, too, was the absence of an air intelligence officer until the committee’s eighteenth meeting on 26 July 1938.3 This oversight ensured that few discussions relating to air intelligence occurred before then. Nonetheless, committee decisions had implications for the develop- ment of damage-assessment capabilities.  At the second meeting on 30 May 1934, representatives agreed on a need for an automatic bombsight and formed a bomb subcommittee to develop proper ordnance for a future war. They reached agreement on the need for six bomb types: 18-pound antipersonnel, 30-pound and 50-pound generalpurpose, 250-pound and 500-pound high-explosive and incendiary, and 2,000-pound antiship bombs.  Despite the utilitv of large bombs in the Great War. the Air Ministrv continued to dismiss their imvortance. Air Chief Marshal Sir Robert Brooke-Ponham recommended the 250-vound bomb be  Page 59 of 423 16%  Air Intelligence Developments in the Late Interwar Period, 1933-1941  RAF Rearmament: The Bombing Committee  The pace of air intelligence developments increased noticeably after 1933, although there was as yet little reemergence of the intelligence organizations that had surfaced briefly in 1917-1918. The rise of Nazi Germany, fascist Italy’s aggression in Abyssinia, and the involvement of Germany and Italy in the Spanish civil war drove the British and Americans toward an honest appraisal of their bombing capabilities and actions for improvement. Because the interwar period ended two years later for the Americans than for the British, this chapter reviews developments in the Army Air Corps (renamed