n 1944-1945. Bufton began by saying the commands and agencies represented at the meeting produced a variety of reports on bomb damage, but none produced anything assessing the aggregate effects of area and precision bombing or the ways in which they were either complementary or duplicative. Bufton was concerned that no interagency machinery existed to assess the bombing effects on various target sets. “If we made a series of concentrated and successful raids,” he asked, “what would be the true effect upon the German war effort?”=+  There was general agreement on the need for the ACIU and RE8 to produce damage assessments for area and precision raids and for MEW to assess aggregate damage done by both. In a veiled attack on his own command’s bombing doctrine, Group Captain Paynter, Bomber Command’s chief intelligence officer, argued that “we have got to look ahead to the time when we will be more accurate in our bombing; when we have bombed out the heart of our present targets we should have to look elsewhere.”=2 Clearly, Paynter saw the air war extending beyond city bombing to involve a major increase in British precision attacks alongside the Americans’ attacks. Equally important for the development of damage-assessment capabilities was a statement by Mr. Lawrence, the MEW representative, that if bombers went after a specific target set such as oil or transportation, MEW had the sources at hand to assess aggregate effects. He also said his agency could determine how attacks on one industry affected the larger war economy, and by extension military capabilities and operations at the fighting fronts. The upshot of these collective ideas was an initiative by the senior leaders within each com- mand and agency to devise new report formats capable of describing the effects of precision as well as area raids.  As Americans began to arrive in large numbers, the British provided photointerpretation expertise to gauge the effects of 8th Air Force bombing. Fortunately for bo