bombing’s indirect effects, as Schmid put it, to an unbearable extent. Bomber Command’s expert abilitv to find and bomb targets bv fall 1944 made the second Ruhr offensive even worse than the first. On the  Page 155 of 423 39%  ee eee eee ee ee eee ee ee) ee ee te CERES SSD EME SAS SE NESS L AAG: ed SEEGEES SAREE SEEN SAR he FSS SAMEOE LINIU® FERS SAU we  The number of man-hours lost by frequent air alerts is impossible to measure, but since machine tools suffered relatively little from bomb damage, the human factor must be rated very high in accounting for the decrease in fighter—and other—production in later 1943.... People continued to do their duty in a fatalistic and apathetic mood, and this did not increase their devotion to the political cause and to productivity.4®  The official historians of Bomber Command operations agreed with this analysis, perhaps unwittingly. They noted that productivity at industries in Solingen suffered heavily and for several months because even though the city was not attacked directly, many of the workers in its plants resided in Wuppertal and Remscheid, both of which were devastated by Bomber Command raids. This is only one instance they mention of the phenomenon (absenteeism as a result of refugee movements and the death or injury of workers), but Boog makes clear that it was widespread and costly.*2  Bomber Command aerial mining missions in the Baltic also led to major German shipping losses (and the vital high-grade Swedish iron ore they carried) and delayed sea trials of new U-boats such as the Mark XXI. These new boats could not have turned the tide, but they would have caused much greater shipping losses. Instead of getting twenty or more Type XXIs operational by 1945, the Germans managed only one. Ultra confirmed these delays. Harris pushed hard for these mine-laying missions while he was deputy director of plans at the air staff in 1939. His efforts paid off. By April 1940, Hampden bombers were deploying magnetic mines—an