hotointerpreters stayed, providing vital continuity and expertise. Several key veterans of the Great War stayed in the air intelligence business. Photographic officers, photointerpreters, and combat intelligence officers continued their work at the squadron, group, and wing levels, and they had the additional advantage of working within a governmental and military structure that continued to place a modest priority on aerial photography and air intelligence. The most impressive of these individuals were George Goddard and his British counterpart, F. C. V. Laws, who played vital roles in developing aerial photography.  American efforts were significant and sustained. Just how serious they were is evident in a 1924 document detailing proper uses of aerial photography. It said, “The aerial camera is the vigilant and searching eye of the command.”22 By extension, airmen clearly recognized aerial photography’s importance as a tool for damage assessment. “When cities in the rear are to be bombed,” the document continued, “a photograph of them aids in picking out the more vulnerable points without the loss of time necessitated by searching for them from the air.”24 This statement was accompanied by a brief reference to Training Regulation 440-190, which described procedures for making aerial photographs, and Training Regulation 210-10, which explained in detail how photointerpreters were to annotate photos for the G-2 (director of intelligence) and G-3 (director of operations).24 These ideas rested on the assumption that aerial photos were essentially “paper targets” on which photointer- preters could count bomb hits and determine their effects.2=  Although the work also focused on artillery damage assessment, the principles involved translated directly to bombing assessments. These involved recognition that artillery fire was not likely to destroy targets with a single barrage, that reattack and photoreconnaissance to assess the effects and progress of attacks were indisp