roportion of oil production came from a limited number of plants. Eleven synthetic plants in central Germany provided 70 percent of Germany’s fuel. Their destruction would speed the end of the war in Europe. But it was Harris’s final paragraph that gave Bufton, as it had Portal, the greatest cause for concern. The fact that earlier efforts against selective target systems had not always been successful had nothing to do with poor intelligence, but rather with the Allies’ earlier inability to carry out bombing with the concentration necessary to outpace the enemy’s efforts to rebuild and disperse.4*“ That was no longer the case, as the oil offensive illustrated.458  Portal’s 22 December reply to Harris, again essentially a copy of Bufton’s draft, assured him his concerns about Bomber Command “going it alone” in the oil offensive were completely groundless— the USAAF was heavily in the fight but could not currently engage distant plants. Thus, Bomber Command had “to put out and keep out of action the 11 synthetic plants in Central Germany.”42 Their pro- duction, he reiterated, provided 70 percent of total German requirements.  Portal then expressed disappointment with Harris’s continuing view of oil as another panacea. While he felt that way, Portal argued, “you will be unable to put your heart into the attack of oil.”15° He said Harris had attacked Leuna and Pélitz reluctantly and appeared unwilling to engage additional distant oil targets. Portal also criticized Harris for his dislike of MEW. Harris’s doubts, Portal said, implied he had no faith in any effort focused on a particular target set. To succeed, these efforts had to be concentrated in time and effort. Destroying half of a target set’s capacity would lead to failure. “If we had tried harder in our attacks on ball-bearings,” he added, “I have little doubt that the full effects forecast by the M.E.W. would have been achieved.”11 Portal then tried to soften his message, saying he was pleased Harris had recent