information on enemy air capabilities. The bomb targets depart- ment, responsible for building target folders, making targeting recommendations to the Directorate of Operations (G-3), compiling records of bombing results, and keeping track of enemy air defense assets, was vitally important. An air activities department analyzed the effects of air operations, including bombing. This intelligence appeared in the Daily Summary of Air Information. Although the G-2-A-7 staff developed its capabilities from scratch, with British and French assistance it was operational by summer 1918.24  One of the first things G-2-A-7 did was identify personnel for branch intelligence officer training and assign them to bombardment and observation squadrons. These individuals sent frequent damage reports to G-2-A-7 in the war's closing months, including number and size of bombs dropped and results as seen by the observer or shown by aerial photographs.*? All seven AEF bomb squad- rons activated before the end of the war had intelligence and photographic sections. Branch intelligence officers collected, compiled, and distributed all bombing-related intelligence. Interpretation and distribution of aerial photographs took place within hours of a bombing mission. Observers taking photos from observation aircraft or strike photos from bombers assisted the intelligence officer with imagery interpretation. Branch intelligence officers in bomb groups also compiled raid results, wrote damage assessments, and sent them to higher echelons.*4  The “Provisional Manual of Operations of Air Service Units,” issued by Brigadier General William “Billy” Mitchell in draft before the St. Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne offensives and in final form on 23 December 1918, gave branch intelligence officers guidance for performing their duties. Each observation group kept one copy of every photo in the Intelligence Office and two in the Operations Room. “The Intelligence Officer,” it continued,  will keep a card index of