ed appreciation of the Axis oil position. With the start of oil attacks in May 1944, the JIC’s Joint Anglo-American Oil Committee and its Joint Oil Targets Committee (JOTC) reviewed each attack based on the success of the previous week’s raids, each oil facility’s operational status, and its importance to Germany’s war effort. From there, they issued prioritized target lists for the next week’s raids. In October 1944, the Working Committee (Oil) of the Combined Strategic Targets Committee (CSTC) subsumed these committees.2  The CSTC Working Committee (Oil) used a full range of expertise, including air intelligence officers; members of the U.S. Enemy Oil Committee; Lieutenant Colonel V. L. Forster of the Ministry of Fuel and Power; and civilian experts from Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI), the Shell Group, and several other civilian companies. The Allied Central Interpretation Unit (ACIU), and particularly Flight Lieutenant Kent of D (Industry) Section, one of the world’s foremost oil experts and photointerpreters, could call on them as needed. The CSTC Working Committee (Oil) also assisted Mediterranean Allied Air Forces (MAAF) intelligence experts. The JIC continued publishing fortnightly reports on the effects of oil attacks. This organizational machinery tracked oil production with great accuracy and was thus able to determine the effects, individually and in the aggregate, of bombing raids.*  Map Il Greater German Synthetic Oil  Stettin Plants  Freche Trapec® Plants  Ber gee Myo cngeriat on Piarts  Bombe: Range  Page 243 of 423 58%  VV a U UPLlelllacy |S 5 TH, we a 5 WU COTISCCULIVE pv U pPdaipils, UPPULlLOL”YU KU U 5 to undermine the German war economy. These campaigns were highly synergistic. As we have seen, heavy bombers pushed railheads far from the front, forcing the Germans to use truck convoys and, ironically, much more fuel as they made long and dangerous supply runs. Night bombers and fighter-bombers singled out these convoys, along with fuel depots