ood damage assessments played a key role here. Portal continued with an observation that “it was useless to attack pin-point targets such as the synthetic oil plants except on clear moonlight nights. There was an average of only four per month.” Finally, Portal was discouraged by the estimate—too high, as it turned out—that oil attacks had reduced output by perhaps 5 percent. He ended with this thought: “Although the destruction of synthetic oil plants was strategically desirable, they were not objectives which were tactically vulnerable.”4 The following week, he firmly and finally rejected Hankey’s plea to continue the oil campaign.12  At the same time, Peirse was struggling with another serious concern: his inability to obtain sufficient poststrike photographs and damage assessments. Peirse pleaded with the secretary of state for air for an expert to help his intelligence officers with damage assessments.14 Air Vice Marshal Norman Bottomley, recently made deputy chief of the air staff, released E. D. Brant of the Railroad Re- search Service on a part-time basis, but only when it did not interfere with his interagency efforts in London.4  Peirse was resolved to improve Bomber Command’s Intelligence Directorate and enlarge it to the point where it could provide all required analyses. This forceful if unrealistic attitude was a result of Peirse’s frustrations with the Air Ministry, which he felt produced rudimentary target dossiers lacking detailed insights, and with the Central Interpretation Unit (CIU), which he thought provided too few damage reports—a problem soon resolved but at the time a major source of frustration. These concerns led Peirse to establish a large Bomber Command air intelligence capability, at first in competition with the CIU but later working in coordination with it. The division of labor brought on by this evolving relationship included Bomber Command responsibility for building detailed tar- get dossiers with all available CIU damage assessm