rger Mosquito, then on the drawing boards, would be indispensable for obtaining the most detailed possible poststrike cover. Attendees also recognized the growing importance of night photography for damage assessment.22  The list of attendees at this meeting provides a reminder that the Air Ministry, PDU, and PIU hired the best photographic and photointerpretation talent. A steady stream of experts, including World War I veterans, arrived at the PDU and PIU during 1940 and exerted a highly positive influence on the development of air intelligence capabilities. Wing Commander Hemming had been involved in aerial photography during the Great War. Flight Lieutenant H. Hamshaw Thomas, a distinguished World War I photointerpreter who worked as a botanist at Cambridge University between the wars, arrived at the PIU looking for work in fall 1940. Once there, he rewrote the Air Ministry manual on aerial photography and then took charge of the PIU’s new D (Industry) Section, which ultimately produced thousands of reports on German industrial facilities, including oil plants and refineries. The same process occurred throughout the intelligence community, with Wing Commander (later Group Captain) F. C. V. Laws putting on the uniform again to become the Air Ministry’s deputy director of photography. The first wartime course for RAF photographic officers at Farnborough, Decem- ber 1939 to January 1940, featured ten officers in their forties or older, all with photointelligence experience in the Great War and the interwar period.2®  First Campaigns: Barges and Oil  These veterans and their younger comrades did not have long to wait before they put their skills to use during Bomber Command’s first two campaigns, the first against barges and port facilities along the Channel coast after the fall of France and the second a small-scale and unsuccessful effort against oil targets in the Ruhr. In the case of oil attacks, all were at night; and as the few available PIU and Bomber Command