e bombs at the start of the war. The charge-toweight ratio of these weapons was only 27 percent, the lowest of all bombs in use by the world’s major air forces. This resulted in a proposal, adopted unanimously, to use a sheet- metal bomb casing (rather than cast iron) and to increase the explosive charge to 35 percent of the bomb’s total weight, yielding an effective medium-capacity bomb. A new benzene-based explosive filling upped the charge by 12 percent and made filling bombs easier. It would soon be joined by RDX, an even more potent explosive. The higher charge-to-weight ratio of these bombs, first the 500- pound and 1,000-pound varieties and in July 1942 the huge 4,000-pound Blockbuster, produced better blast damage and much larger craters, which disrupted utilities and made firefighting difficult by breaking underground electric lines, water mains, and sewage pipes. The meeting’s key outcome was a redoubled effort to produce large numbers of medium-capacity bombs in 1941, an objective the British met. The new generation of bombs, produced with sheet metal and without fins, resembled oil barrels more than bombs. However ungainly their appearance, they became the primary agents of destruction, along with several effective incendiary bombs, in city raids.  Incendiaries proved to be key enablers for city bombing. The British developed three basic varieties, including a 4-pound magnesium-filled bomb in 1934, a 30-pound phosphorous and hydrocarbon- gel weapon, and the 30-pound J bomb, which was in effect a shape-charged weapon emitting a focused and extremely hot flame. These were, quite literally, Bomber Command’s fire-starting devices for city raids.2  By January 1941, Bomber Command was well on the way to building a master list of bombs and fuses, showing optimum bomb and fuse combinations for various targets including factory buildings, oil plants, and water and gas mains, among others. One of the key conclusions in the memo accompanying these tables was that i