ted in late summer 1941 with the arrival of eight photointerpreters from HQ Bomber Command. These interpreters assessed damage done by Bomber Command raids. Products included immediate reports, due to customers within twenty-four hours of receipt of photographs, and detailed reports, which usually followed immediate reports by twenty-four to forty-eight hours. Once mature in 1942, K Section was subdivided into four watches of six to eight people, each of whom produced all immediate interpretation reports, plus a supervision and specialist group of senior interpreters who prepared all Detailed Interpretation Reports and Special Reports. Members of K Section also maintained damage dossiers containing all damage reports for a given target and attack files with a running ledger of all attacks against a given target including date, number of aircraft, bomb tonnage dropped, and a synopsis of results.4=  Immediate interpretation reports were based on a comparison of preraid and postraid photographs. They consisted of a general statement on the distribution and severity of damage, followed by details on the condition of significant elements of the target, including photographs showing principal points of damage. The printed report followed a teleprinter version highlighting damage done ina raid, which was sent to interested organizations. A supplemental report might also go out within the next few days if new reconnaissance cover or other intelligence brought to light new details.4®  Detailed interpretation reports were based on more thorough analysis. Assessments of urban areas, which by summer 1941 were becoming frequent, included colored graphics depicting previously destroyed areas of cities (shown in blue) and areas destroyed in the most recent raids (shown in red). They also listed individual industrial facilities damaged and details on the extent and nature of the damage. This required photointerpreters to conduct a building-by-building analysis. Detailed interpretat