.4  Of the crucial elements comprising a mature air intelligence organization—technology, technicians, training, organizations, and intellectual infrastructure—the latter is the most difficult to develop and keep in place over the long term because it involves the integration, synchronization, and direction of the other four elements. The first of these, technology, included reconnaissance and bombing aircraft large enough to carry cameras; cameras, plates, and film; stereoscopic viewing devices; and photographic development equipment that allowed for rapid production of prints. All became better as the war continued and were adequate for producing aerial photos. They evolved further during the interwar years as private industries worked with airmen in Britain and the United States to give them a crucial boost toward maturity.  The emergence of technicians, including photographic and intelligence officers, and training programs for them, also accelerated as the war continued. Improvements here were twofold. First, photographic personnel learned to mount cameras on aircraft, maintain them between missions, remove plates or film without causing damage, and develop photographs. Second was the emergence of a new kind of specialist, the branch intelligence officer, who emerged in Anglo-American units in late 1917. They were generalists trained to understand and use all available intelligence sources, and although they were not photointerpreters, these officers had a basic understanding of photointelligence and its value to the damage-assessment process.  Organizational challenges also emerged along with new air intelligence requirements. In the case of the RAF’s newly created Air Ministry and the American Expeditionary Force’s air staff, these included convoluted reporting chains and competition between offices in the ministry, which impeded the evolution and the effectiveness of intelligence organizations at all echelons.  Key to the development of air intelligence orga