tfalls began playing an increasingly important role in the ground campaign immediately after the 25-27 July American breakout from St. L6-Perriers. Shortages hampered  Page 242 of 423 58%  Destroyed tanker cars and POL barrels, Gennevilliers, October 1944. This photo indicates severe damage. The large tanks scattered about and smashed were filled with POL products and set on tank car chassis in preparation for ship- ment to the front. The kind of damage evident here and in previous photos occurred at nearly every oil plant and depot. (USAFA)  Growing gasoline shortfalls began playing an increasingly important role in the ground campaign immediately after the 25-27 July American breakout from St. Lé-Perriers. Shortages hampered movement of German units from Caen to Mortain and their abortive counterattack there. The result was an operational disaster as the Allied advance continued and the closing of the Falaise-Argentan Gap forced the fuel-starved Germans to retreat. During their flight toward the Reich, the Germans abandoned thousands of vehicles for lack of fuel. Medium bombers and fighter-bombers destroyed thousands of others. Panzer and Panzer Grenadier divisions lost on average 50 percent of motor vehicles, 70 to 100 percent of armored vehicles, and 60 to 70 percent of towed artillery. By late September, soldiers lucky enough to have made it to the Reich were critically short of heavy equipment. Bombing had denied German divisions the fuel required to retreat in good order from France, and they would never again have enough to allow for maneuver warfare. As Generalmajor Toppe, quartermaster general of the German army, noted, by September 1944, available supplies were far short of requirements, even with rigorous economy measures. In a telling statement, Toppe said, “German commanders agree that a considerable part of the art of war consists of concentrating more force at key points than the enemy; when mobility and maneuver are lost, the loss of battles and cam