r, had just ordered area raids on Cologne and Bochum on nights well suited for oil attacks, after receiving guidance to go after Bergius plants.  Oil Attacks and the Portal-Harris Debate  The result was perhaps the most severe disagreement of the war between Portal, now a major proponent of oil attacks, and Harris. Portal, an effective but self-effacing leader who avoided acrimony, drovved the hammer on Harris but failed to follow un. letting Harris continue citv bombing until Avril 1945 rather than relieving him of command.  Page 277 of 423 65%  As Uitra recorded these calamities, 1t also became Clear USAAF raids were Incapable of doing the same damage to oll plants as bomber Command attacks. In addition to carrying much heavier bomD loads, RAF bombers could rely on very accurate target marking by a veteran Pathfinder Force. With winter on the way and the large Bergius plants in eastern Germany and southwestern Poland coming back online, Bufton and Maxwell recognized that only Bomber Command could inflict the damage required to keep them out of action. The short winter days made it impossible for USAAF bombers to make daylight attacks. The key was convincing Harris to expand his command’s policing of Ruhr oil targets by adding night precision attacks against distant Bergius plants. On 3 November, the CSTC said that “RAF Bomber Command should give special consideration” to raiding such plants, including Leuna and Politz.12 They continued:  If enemy plants had been successfully re-attacked whenever opportunity occurred, even though still inactive, the enemy would not have been able to achieve the increase of oil production from 23.5% of his pre attack output in September to 32% in October. Over the winter months a further recovery in German oil production can only be averted by seizing the few expected opportun- ities of effecting long term damage to the major productive plants even though these plants may not have resumed production by time of attack. The aim should