units in Normandy. they nad a iong 1eg Up on the competition because they began planning the transportation campaign four montns derore competitors even began WOrking on their proposals. The fact that Tedder was Eisenhower’s deputy and a superb airman—and had his superior’s complete and well-earned trust—also brightened the transportation campaign’s prospects for approval.  The TIC was composed of every civilian and military railroad expert, including C. E. R. Sherrington, head of the Railroad Research Service (RRS) and committee chair; Squadron Leader W. Wigglesworth of A.I.3(e) (the Air Ministry’s damage-assessment office); several RAF and USAAF officers from A.I.3(c) (the Air Ministry’s targeting office) and the Allied Central Interpretation Unit (ACIU), including F (Transportation) Section; and others from ground commands spearheading the invasion. These players soon comprised the Transportation Targets Committee (TTC), which made target recommendations to Eisenhower, Tedder, and Leigh-Mallory. The TIC’s first order of business was to obtain reports on rail centers in France, Belgium, and western Germany from ACIU F Section. Major Moody of F Section delivered detailed reports, based on the latest reconnaissance cover, for each of the seventy-three marshaling yards then on the target list. A.I.3(c) used these reports to pre- pare target dossiers.34  In January 1944, Squadron Leader Wigglesworth asked the assistant director of intelligence, photography, for reconnaissance coverage of the fifteen marshaling yards for which the TIC did not yet have adequate photographs. He reminded him that the request originated with the RRS, whose “position in relation to the Service Ministries was fixed before the war by the Committee of Imperial Defence. It was then arranged that they should be regarded as expert advisors on railway matters to all Service Ministries and to the Ministry of Economic Warfare.”22 This was significant in view of Sherrington’s dual position as head of