y abandoned it. Reconnaissance during this period also highlighted Trappes, where seventeen days of repairs were required before even basic marshaling activities resumed. Most locomotives were still immobilized inside damaged engine sheds or on sidings yet to be repaired.  Part 3 of the report provided three key assessments about effects and effectiveness. First, even a highly successful attack would usually prevent through traffic for no more than three days. Second, a successful attack might stop marshaling activity for twelve or more days. Third, on the basis of ACIU F reports and reconnaissance cover of damaged marshaling yards, the enemy clearly made repairs in the following order: through routes, traffic-sorting areas, and locomotive and wagon maintenance facilities. Locomotive service shops’ lower repair priority soon caused the Germans severe difficulties as the number of damaged and destroyed engines skyrocketed after D-day, particularly when fighter-bombers started strafing moving trains. Because Bomber Command attacks began a month before Eisenhower issued his bombing directive, they gave intelligence specialists an opportunity to determine how the Germans would respond and where their key weaknesses were. These  first raids thus paid huge dividends for Tedder and Zuckerman at the 25 March meeting, and ultimately for the air intelligence organization 22  A period of bad weather halted attacks the following week, but raids recommenced on 9-10 April with an attack on Lille by 239 aircraft destroying a locomotive shed, a locomotive repair shop, and most of the wagon repair facilities. According to French records obtained after the liberation of Lille, 2,124 of the 2,959 wagons in the yard were smashed, along with several locomotives. Another fourteen raids during the following four days caused moderate or light damage and destroyed a number of wagons and locomotives. The rate of destruction, particularly for wagons and engines, far outpaced repairs. Reconnai