ce capability at the PIU. To oversee this process, the Air Ministry soon created a new position, the assistant director of intelligence for photography, who exercised policy and operational authority over the entire tasking and production process from 1941 until his unit’s replacement by the Joint Photographic Reconnaissance Committee in May 1944. This proved crucial in making the damage-assess- ment process as effective and efficient as possible.2&  These efforts to iron out details of photographic reconnaissance operations continued at a meeting in February 1941 chaired by Air Vice Marshal Peck, the assistant chief of air staff (general), and attended by a number of key flying and intelligence officers, including Group Captain Laws, Squadron Leader Riddell, and Mr. Lawrence, a senior intelligence officer from MEW. All agreed that photore- connaissance aircraft would have to operate at 30,000 to 40,000 feet of altitude to avoid fighters and flak. However, they also recognized the short (6”) lenses on F24 cameras carried aboard Spitfire reconnaissance aircraft were incapable of providing 1:12,000-scale coverage at those altitudes. Riddell emphasized that 1:12,000 was the smallest scale at which photointerpreters could conduct in- depth assessments. Two key problems presented themselves here. The first was an as-yet-unmet requirement for 30” and 40” camera lenses, which Laws said would not be available until summer. Neither of these would fit in the Spitfire, which carried at most a 20” lens that provided good—but not great—detail. Consequently, this meant the larger Mosquito, then on the drawing boards, would be indispensable for obtaining the most detailed possible poststrike cover. Attendees also recognized the growing importance of night photography for damage assessment.22  The list of attendees at this meeting provides a reminder that the Air Ministry, PDU, and PIU hired the best photographic and photointerpretation talent. A steady stream of experts, including