g yards, bridges, and canals thus cost the Germans another 90,000 troops who spent the rest of the war in POW camps rather than fighting on for Reich and Fithrer.143  The Traffic Desert  By September, the third and final RRS report said, intelligence personnel saw “the final petering out of German formation movements on the S.N.C.F. and Belgian State Railways... the study of which has been undertaken by this Service ever since adequate information became available towards the close of 1941.”144 This confirmed not only the demise of organized rail movement, but also the usefulness of the intensive RRS analysis of French and Belgian railroads for nearly three years before the transportation offensive. The agency understood the SNCF’s strengths and weaknesses, influ- encing how the Allies planned and executed this decisive campaign. Superb reconnaissance photos, as well as ACIU K and F damage assessments, made the jobs of RRS analysts much easier.  Page 228 of 423 55%  To stay ahead of advancing Allied columns from the west and south, these troops had to keep moving during daylight hours, which led to their undoing. Most reached the frontiers of Germany and were reequipped (not as well as previously) to fight in the war’s closing campaigns; but somewhere along the back roads of southern France, their faith in a German victory faltered. In consequence of these cataclysms, Albert Speer, touring the Reich’s western defenses, wrote to the Fithrer on 15 September 1944, saying, “The lack of heavy weapons felt by the army on the Western Front is shock- ing. ... There is a terrifyingly large number of weaponless soldiers in the West.”142  The same problem developed in southwestern France, where a German 1st Army troop column of approximately 100,000 men evacuated in early September. Reconnaissance aircraft discovered them near Nevers, Bruges, and Poitiers, moving northeast mostly on foot. Four 8th Air Force fighter groups began strafing operations, and from there, the disaster