and coequal.  There is, however, a key caution in order here. Obviously, the army leadership was unlikely to allow publication of official doctrine advocating anything other than direct or indirect support of the ground effort, and any airman who disagreed had to be very careful about how he approached the problem, especially after Mitchell's court-martial. The preceding discussion should not lull us into believing all airmen embraced the early interwar focus on combined-arms doctrine with open arms, either then or later. In fact, during the Second World War, a number of senior airmen remained airpower zealots, hoping and trying for victory from the air. Harris is perhaps the best known of these, but Spaatz is also prominent among them. Of course, none of the most senior army leaders, including Marshall, would seriously entertain this course of action, so the actual employment of heavy bombers from 1943 to 1945 held more closely to early interwar doctrine than to the more ex- treme views developed at the Air Corps Tactical School later in the interwar period.2° This had important implications for the development of air intelligence capabilities after 1935.  Page 45 of 423 12%  William C. Sherman, the Air Service bomber advocate who in 1926 authored one of the first comprehensive texts on air warfare, also tied bombing, and its effects on the enemy’s war economy, to the ground campaign. In assessing the importance of bombing industries, he said, “We are accustomed to think of war as being decided only on the battlefield, and indeed this is true... . But industrial effi- ciency can give to its possessor a tremendous advantage, when at length he arrives on the battlefield. Accordingly the destruction of an enemy’s industries assumes a tremendous importance.”12  Similarly, Sherman envisioned air attacks on lines of communication, especially railroads, as a task for heavy bombers and attack (fighter-bomber) aircraft. The former, he argued, had the most important mission,