n calculated insubordination by shifting their bombers’ aim points from the adjacent marshaling yards (which they had permission to attack by April 1944) just slightly, so bombs would fall on the refineries. By the time they received official permission to bomb the refineries, Ploesti’s fuel production had already plum- meted. (NARA)  When the Ploesti campaign ended, a combined USAAF-RAF groundsurvey team went to Rumania to study bombing effects. The director of Commercial Marine, a major shipping company, and a tugboat pilot familiar with the Danube, said mining before Rumania’s defection to the Allies was significant, with more than 200 barges and sixty to seventy tugboats sunk. In addition, one of Belgrade’s bridges was bombed and collapsed into the river, halting traffic for two weeks. After the defection, Rumanian artillery and gunboats destroyed over 100 German boats, while the Germans themselves sank several more to block Allied river navigation. These developments caused a major decrease in oil shipments up the Danube. Speer noted in a postwar interrogation that mining the Dan- ube had been even more harmful than attacks on Ploesti’s refineries.22  As mining took its toll, attacks on Ploesti went into high gear. MAAF bombers flew twenty missions from 5 April through 19 August. These destroyed 89 percent of Ploesti’s productive capacity (from 709,000 tons per month to 77,000) and reduced its gasoline and aviation fuel output by 91 percent (from 177,000 tons per month to 15,400). This was highly significant because most Rumanian fuel went directly to the Eastern Front. Combined with continuing transportation attacks, which made moving oil, ammunition, and reinforcements difficult, this resulted in major operational problems for German forces in southern Russia and speeded the collapse of resistance there and in the Balkans.#©  After the Russians captured Ploesti, a ten-man survey team arrived there. These intelligence specialists compared damage assessments fr