y misguided: “All Germany openly bemoans it as their worst trial. We know that on more than one occasion they have nearly collapsed under it. As the programme nears completion we chuck it all up—for a panacea.”1 Intelligence did not support his assertion that the Germans had nearly collapsed under city bombing. Bufton agreed area attacks had been of value, weakening morale, placing immense strains on the German workforce, diverting huge numbers of weapons and other assets from the fronts, and accomplishing several other important things. However, none of these developments, individually or collectively, was as decisive as Harris argued. Ironically, Bufton pointed out, Harris used MEW assessments supporting these effects on the German war economy, but not any relating to oil.1%8  Portal sent Harris a blunt reply on 8 January 1945. Despite Harris’s assertions to the contrary, Portal said Bomber Command would press home oil attacks “more certainly if they were backed not solely by your loyalty but by your sense of enthusiasm as well.”+©2 He then launched a scathing attack on Harris for his unfair characterization of MEW’s role in target selection and their “mendacity.” Portal reemphasized that bombing policy was based on many inputs in addition to MEW’s. Harris’s attack on MEW was “an unworthy and inexcusable travesty of our conduct of the war to suggest that our policy is determined on that basis.”122  The imbroglio continued even after the CCS issued Directive No. 3 on 15 January 1945. Oil remained the top priority, followed by transportation and tank factories. It addressed Harris’s concerns by allowing that if weather conditions prevented attacks on priority targets, he could use blind-bombing techniques against important industrial areas 12  When Harris replied to Portal’s letter, he offered his resignation and attacked Portal for trying to run the bombing effort directly from the air staff. He said he did not intend to use “panacea” as a contemptuous term, but ra