ht sections, with another twenty people en route. Another sixty-seven Americans of the 1st PID were working at RAF Pinetree. Americans were present in all sections by early 1943. These included first-phase sections collocated with reconnaissance units to produce immediate interpretation reports; second-phase sections at Medmenham, including K (Damage Assessment), D (Industry), and F (Transportation) Sections; and at RAF Pinetree, where 1st PID provided second-phase analyses for USAAF heavy-bomber raids as K Section did for Bomber Command missions.*2  By June 1943 K Section’s Anglo-American photointerpreters had standardized procedures for second-phase damage assessments. The rigorous standards for this process were clear in instructions issued to K Section interpreters:  In drawing up such summaries the Section has been instructed that all statements are to be statements of fact, or deductions which are supported by the facts which the interpretation has dis- closed. No:statement which is a matter of opinion, or relates to matters of which the interpreter can have no knowledge is to be made. In particular no adjudication on the success or the failure of an operation is to be made. [However,] it is felt that the value of the P.I. reports will be diminished if men of high intellectual caliber are debarred from stating the results of a careful and detailed study of the information obtainable—a study which no other officer is in a position to make.®  This guidance left no doubt as to the high standards demanded of K Section interpreters and emphasized their authority to make reasoned statements about the results of their studies. These air intelligence experts, who grew in number from nine in 1940 to fifty-four in 1944, produced K reports, which were standard damage assessments, and KS reports, which assessed German rubble- clearance and repair efforts and included target illustrations showing damage to specific buildings. They also produced KR reports to address reques