r his part, Harris had long rejected any idea that the preinvasion effort should divert Bomber Command from his city bombing. His view was simply that the bomber offensive was “sound policy only if the rate of destruction is greater than the rate of repair. It is hard to estimate the extent to which Germany could recoup industrially in say a six months’ break in bombing.” “It is thus clear,” he continued,  that the best and indeed the only efficient support which Bomber Command can give to OVERLORD is the intensification of attacks on suitable industrial areas in Germany ... when the opportun- ity offers. If we attempt to substitute for this process attacks on gun emplacements, beach defences, communications or dumps in occupied territory we shall commit the irremediable error of diverting our best weapon from the military function, for which it has been equipped and trained, to tasks which it cannot carry out. This might give some specious appearance of “supporting” the army, in reality it would be the gravest disservice we could do them. It would lead directly to disaster.  Given these kinds of attacks on the plan, even Tedder, its coauthor, was having his doubts—not about the plan itself, but about gathering adequate support. Without the bomber chiefs’ participation, the plan would not work. As we now know, the Combined Chiefs of Staff’s eventual answer was simply to give Eisenhower, and Tedder as his deputy, direct control of the heavies, but that had not yet transpired. In a letter to Portal, Tedder lamented, “I am afraid that having started as a confirmed optimist I am steadily losing my optimism as to how this is all going to work out. .. . The so-called ‘Committee’ has shown no signs so far of producing any constructive results. Iam more and more being forced to the unfortunate conclusion that the two strategic forces [Spaatz and Harris] are deter- mined not to play.” This was the one point at which Tedder approached anything like despair.  Worse was to come