cted by lack of fuel which has been a major factor in the present battle.”1°3 They also noted a statement by the Chiefs of Staff that  further reduction in the enemy’s oil supplies may be expected to precipitate large scale catastrophes on both the Western and Eastern Fronts, by drastically impairing the mobility of his Army and Air Force formations. Specific recommendations: Attack of remaining Bomber Command oil targets in the Ruhr should always have priority over city targets. Conduct large-scale heavy bomber raids against all major tactical and strategic German oil depots. It is therefore recommended that when this Paper is forwarded by the Chiefs of Staff to the Supreme Commander, the lat- ter’s attention should be drawn to the importance of intensifying our attacks upon oil targets.1%  The next JOTC bulletin warned that summer weather was ending, making an all-out effort imperative. The goal was to put the twenty-five largest oil plants and refineries out of action for at least two months. This meant attacking large plants that were currently inactive to ensure major effects rather than going after smaller but active producers. “Successful attack of these 25 targets before the end of August or early in September,” the bulletin concluded, “would result in the reduction of oil production in September to less than 500,000 tons or about 35% of pre-attack production.”1%  Heavy attacks during the first week of August, coupled with Rumania’s defection to the Allies, proved disastrous for German forces. With the loss of Ploesti, total output of finished products, including gasoline and aviation fuel, was 539,000 tons, only 40 percent of the preattack total. There were no Bergius plants operating, only three Fischer-Tropsch plants, and one refinery in Germany but four in Austria and three in Hungary. The weekly bulletin closed with an upbeat assessment:  The Allied Air Forces are now presented with an unparalleled opportunity. It is within their power, by further attac