, which hired civilians with detailed knowledge of various industries. By September 1941 the section had produced assessments of all major railroad and inland waterway targets to include the level and type of activity as well as overall importance. When the bombing of railroads and, later, bridges, viaducts, and canals in France and Belgium began in March 1944 in preparation for Operation OVERLORD, F Section interpreters had already studied the effects of raids flown against these target types in 1943 and could assess damage with great accuracy. Like their counterparts in D Section, they worked closely with K Section to ensure details on bomb damage made it into K reports. They also worked directly with the Railway Targets Committee to choose the highest-priority targets for attack on the basis of preattack importance and the effects of previous raids on operational capability. Finally, they worked closely with a littleknown but vital intelligence organization, the Railway Research Service, which led the damage-assessment effort for the transportation offensive against the French and Belgian railroads. In 1944 and early 1945, F Section also produced over 500 reports on railroad and waterway targets for use in the production of target materials and damage assessments.®&  Despite their less substantial role in the assessment process, other ACIU Sections got involved on occasion. One was L (Aircraft and Aircraft Industry) Section, which provided several crucial insights. One was the discovery that an 8th Air Force raid on the FW 190 factory at Bremen in April 1943, which had caused serious damage, had bombed an empty facility. The Germans had previously dispersed production from Bremen to Marienburg and a number of smaller plants. This discovery made future targeting and damage-assessment efforts more effective because it prompted interpret- ers to look for signs of dispersal and indicators of such activity.  Two other ACIU offices of note were R1 and R2 (Combined Oper