rence (an indication they were using early computers to do some of their dataprocessing and statistical work). 6. RE8 estimated damage to utilities. 7. RE8 made adjustments in damage estimates for cloud cover and incomplete photographic coverage of the target area. 8. RE8 measured damage level in terms of lost man-hours. 9. MEW estimated the effect of the raid on the enemy’s overall war effort. 10. RE8 circulated the finished report and Bomber Command Int. 1 built anew damage dossier or updated an existing one if a city had been attacked earlier.  PWNHe  The end results were a comprehensive damage assessment and a new or updated damage dossier that brought this effort to a very high level of precision, notwithstanding the intelligence gaps and imponderables associated with city raids.  The problem with this approach, of course, was its inability to adjust for these gaps and imponderables. One of the greatest unknowns, despite efforts to quantify it with the man-hours-lost process, was the degree to which city attacks disrupted industrial production and drew manpower away from productive work to debris clearance, repair, and reconstruction. RE8 formulas for determining this were intricate but also inaccurate for five reasons. The first was the Germans’ lavish use of forced laborers for rubble clearance and other menial and dangerous tasks. There is no indication that intelligence specialists were aware of this significant problem with the accuracy of their formula. Second was the dispersal of factories, which began in late 1942 and accelerated in 1943. This allowed the Germans to reconstitute production facilities throughout the Reich, a process the Allies were not aware of until well into 1943. Third, the Germans were adept at continuing production in the basements and on the ground floors of bomb-damaged buildings. Allied photointerpreters got better at spotting the telltale signs of such activities, but the Germans stole many a march on them in this fashion. Fourt