e joined just before D-day by the members of K (Damage Assessment) Section, henceforth made up of British and American photointerpreters. The rationale for this move was threefold. First, it placed K Section adjacent to the British PRUs at RAF Benson and their American counterparts at RAF Mount Farm. Second, it allowed 1st PID to provide the best possible support to USAAF bombing operations and HQ 8th Air Force, which was also nearby. Third, it kept the Americans within the CIU orbit and under British tutelage.  Lieutenant General Carl A. Spaatz, commander, 8th Air Force, proved wise enough to let the British lead the photointerpretation effort, with Americans working alongside. This line of thinking matched the British view. The result was the formation of the Allied Central Interpretation Unit, built on the foundation of the CIU, in 1943. As for American PRUs, Spaatz insisted that they were necessary, but he also put in place liaison officers to ensure they coordinated their coverage with that flown by British PRUs. This coordination took place at ADI(Ph) until summer 1944 and then tran- sitioned to the newly formed Joint Photo Reconnaissance Committee.®  USAAF Photoreconnaissance Joins the Fight  As American photointerpreters arrived in Great Britain during 1942, airmen were already figuring out the most effective means for basing and using the USAAF photoreconnaissance squadrons now beginning to arrive. Major General Ira C. Eaker, commander of 8th Bomber Command, recommended to Spaatz that all USAAF photoreconnaissance squadrons initially operate out of RAF Benson (where the British PRUs were stationed) for a short period to receive training from experienced British pilots. He also recommended that all requests for photographic cover go to ADI(Ph), and that a USAAF liaison officer be stationed there to enhance efficiency. Spaatz and the British agreed, and both recommendations were put into operation immediately.  At the same time, 8th Bomber Command staff offic