to determine the effects and effectiveness of attacks. The experience in Italy, along with RRS opinion, made clear the efficacy of bombing marshaling yards to iso- late the Normandy battle area.4#  Just before the release of this AEAF report, which included insights from the RRS and Zuckerman, Air Vice Marshal H. E. P. Wigglesworth, AEAF senior air staff officer, directed the formation of the AEAF Bombing Committee, charged with determining the suitability of targets, reconciling bombing commitments with available effort, allocating priorities, and apportioning effort.44 During the next month, the committee met ten times. Zuckerman and Colonel Richard Hughes, head of the USSTAF Target Section and one of the Allies’ foremost targeting experts, were present at nearly every meeting.4® A key decision was to bomb from 14,000 feet (instead of the usual 22,000 to 23,000), given the light defenses around French rail centers. Also crucial was the agreement to expand the number of Gee- and Oboe-equipped aircraft in Bomber Command and 8th Air Force, which, along with the lower bombing altitudes, resulted in mean points of impact within 150 yards of the aim point —a devastatingly effective capability.4®  Intelligence Uses and Misuses: A Contested Commodity  With the basic arguments on the table, it is important to see how each party used or misused intelligence to make its particular case for preinvasion heavybomber attacks. Because personnel, political, and organizational issues were often at the heart of the debate, they take their place alongside intelligence in this analysis. Tedder and Zuckerman, relying on their experiences in the Mediterranean, had a strong advantage going into deliberations before the meeting. Their plan was detailed and coherent, and Tedder used the superb intelligence analyses supporting it to rout his opponents. For instance, he demonstrated conclusively that EOU, Air Ministry, and JIC analyses (all three in favor of Spaatz’s oil plan) underestimated