t Bomber Command “night precision bombing,” as yet only an emerging capability, might accomplish against such targets.24 Whether guided by Gee, Oboe, H2S Mark III, or some other blind-bombing aid, or simply conducted using the Pathfinder Force and elite bomb groups, such raids, they reasoned, might be every bit as destructive as American raids, and perhaps even more so. British heavies, including the Stirling, Halifax, and Lancaster, carried 14,000 pounds of bombs to the B-17’s 6,000 to 9,000 pounds. This combination of British and American capabilities was already changing the ways in which senior airmen thought about how they should bomb, about what they could and should bomb, and about what was possible once heavy bombers began going after high-value targets in both day and night precision attacks.  First, however, the British were committed to city bombing. They would continue it, despite steadily mounting losses, with the expectation that at some point it would undermine the German war economy and break German morale. Although city bombing did severe damage, it failed in its stated aim of knocking Germany out of the war. And it was the Allied air intelligence organization that highlighted this failure even while it underscored the many important things Bomber Command did to hamper the German war effort and lay the groundwork for the much more serious damage to come once the Americans joined their British comrades in force.  Page 135 of 423 35%  worthwhile or even wise to attempt to talk their allies into joining Bomber Command in a massive city-bombing effort. Air Vice Marshal J. C. Slessor, recently appointed assistant chief of air staff (policy), said of the Americans: “Their bombing has been extremely accurate as a rule. And I think we have seen enough of their performance in this and other theatres to be sure that their aircrews are fine material and will not be deterred by casualties.”2° Indeed, as we have already seen, both Slessor and Portal made a stron