on these target sets would inflict maximum economic, military, and morale effects. This was a problem given that even targets closest to Great Britain, including those in the Ruhr, lay at the extreme limits of medium bomber range and beyond fighter escort range.22  The second approach focused exclusively on fuel and power as the two motive forces behind the German war economy and military. Intelligence personnel agreed Germany’s greatest weakness was its tenuous oil situation. The study focused first on liquid fuels (aviation fuel and gasoline), then on solid fuels (coal), and finally on coal-fired and hydroelectric power plants. In the latter case, it included major dams facilitating high use of hydroelectric power. The study then made the case for simultaneous attacks on electric power plants and the transportation infrastructure required for coal deliveries, including marshaling yards, rail bridges, and inland waterways.24  The third option was to attack one area—the Ruhr—intensively to inflict enough economic pain to bring German leaders to their senses or to force the Luftwaffe to defend its own territory rather than attempting a knockout blow against London. Ludlow-Hewitt favored this plan with an emphasis on electric power.2* The Air Ministry thus planned daylight precision attacks to destroy key in- dustries, with constant night attacks to lower morale and productivity.  There was, however, one crucial shortcoming. In summer 1939, when these plans appeared, the British had a few hundred two-engine bombers, and little of their air intelligence organization was in vlace. Nonetheless. the vlan. viewed in combination with the other two ontions—attacks on kev industrial target sets. and attacks on vital enerev sources and transnortation networks—nresaged in  Page 70 of 423 18%  assessment] by means of practical trials.”2° His plea went largely unheeded, and the bombing trials remained largely unfunded.  The final category of information the Air Ministry sought on