issance and photointerpretation operations from May 1944 to VE Day. Finally, Tuttle and Riddell pushed hard for Air Ministry operational control of the CIU and PRUs, rather than their continued subordin- ation to Coastal Command. With the invasion threat less severe and the bombing offensive against Germany picking up steam, they believed only the Air Ministry Directorate of Intelligence could be an impartial master. “It is proposed,” they said,  that Interpretation shall become a part of intelligence, and shall take its place as the hand-maiden of the latter. Interpretation will never be of full use until it is part of the intelligence organisa- tion which it serves and by which, by direct contact, it is supplied with information. ... Control of this organisation would be vested in the Air Ministry under the Directorate of Intelligence. ... Until this, or some other similar scheme is fulfilled, a large amount of information not available from interpretation, and the vast amount yet to be tapped, will not be made available to the ori- ginal recipients in the shortest possible time, and in the form required by the latter.42  Although a bitter fight with Coastal Command lay ahead, the Air Ministry ultimately sided with Tuttle and Riddell and brought the CIU and PRUs back under air staff operational control in summer 1943.  By August 1941, the CIU had assumed its basic shape. It had fourteen sections, including the first-, second-, and third-phase interpretation sections, where the heart of the mission occurred. First- phase interpretation was now carried out by CIU photointerpreters assigned to the three PRU flights at Benson, St. Eval, and Wick. They sent reports by teletype and courier to interested parties, including K Section, which reviewed and then forwarded them to all customers on their distribution lists as immediate interpretation reports. By 1944, there were over 540 customers for these assess-  Page 93 of 423 24%  ae ——— The campaign against invasion barge