units lived hand to mouth on these small and unreliable allotments. Given the tempo of oil attacks, fuel allocations dropped in fall 1944 from 5 consumption units to 2 or 3 for heavy divisions.*2 Tanks also used three times as much fuel in muddy conditions as in dry ones, and the winter and early spring of 1945 in eastern Europe were particularly muddy as the surprise Russian winter offensive began.  The upshot of these logistical woes was a massive fuel shortage that resulted in the immobilization of 1,200 German tanks and assault guns at the Baranow bridgehead—65 percent of the 1,850 they had on the entire Eastern Front—within the first few days of the Russian offensive.*8 Albert Speer commented on the enormity of this disaster during a postwar interrogation:  We had utilized here approximately 1200 tanks for the defense and here it was for the first time that the troops had only one or two sets of supplies for fuel [fuel increments] so that the tanks were practically unable to move when the Russian attack started. To the best of my knowledge tanks were not utilized again [in large quantities] in battle. ... In this sense one can say that your attacks in the chemical sector [synthetic oil plants] have considerably influenced the defense against this offensive. ... The quick breakthrough came only because of insufficient supplies of fuel. The quick loss of Upper Silesia, which was practically the last push to break the neck of the entire armament industry was therefore caused through the attacks on the hydrogenation plants.*2  The shortage of fuel Speer referred to was a product not only of the oil offensive, but also of transportation attacks making delivery of fuel and ammunition unreliable. German senior leaders were unanimous in emphasizing the disastrous impact of transportation attacks on the German war effort. In this case, the German habit of shipping fuel and blending agents such as benzol and alcohol to major depots for bulk breaking, blending, and transp