nd additional manpower were needed to make this happen.  Gathering Air Intelligence: Lessons and Data  The Air Staff Directorate of Intelligence therefore assumed a leading role as supplier of air intelligence to Bomber Command, a role it kept, albeit with increasing MEW input, for the entire war. The first step in this process was to gather useful historical evidence as Bomber Command developed campaign plans. This came from three places: examination of bombing in the Spanish civil war, experimental evidence on the effects of bombs from peacetime tests, and a careful study of the German war economy. In the first case, there was too little evidence to provide precedents for future bombing campaigns. The JIC conducted a detailed study of the air war over Spain, concluding that the Iberian Peninsula lacked the industrial base to merit serious study.2®  Consequently, the Air Ministry and Bomber Command decided that the air war over Spain was not large or important enough to have had a serious effect on the course of hostilities. This did not mean bombing an enemy’s war industry had no potential, but rather that airpower, used sparingly for infrequent raids on underutilized economic and transportation infrastructures, would not have decisive effects. The lessons British airmen drew from the Spanish civil war were that air attacks would have to be much larger, more frequent, and concentrated against a few key targets within a given target set—lessons they themselves ignored in the opening years of the Second World War.22  The Air Ministry’s second line of approach was to study data from bombing trials and to draw suppositions about the effects of bombing German industries. However, bombing trials were neither frequent nor comprehensive enough to offer conclusive insights. Also problematic was the Air Ministry’s failure to consult bomb damage assessment and munitions effectiveness assessment records from the Great War and subsequent bombing surveys. In September 1938, Air