lied Expeditionary Force, simply said, “Harris and Bomber Command cannot be praised too highly for their efforts to implement what was by far the greater part in the Transportation Plan and contributed materially to its outstanding success.”42  Harris’s personality traits—most notably determination and stubbornness—continued to unfold gradually as he attempted a second major bombing coup with a series of four raids on another Baltic port town, Rostock, another medieval city built largely of wood. The first attack, on 23-24 April, was unsuccessful, but raids on 24-25 April, 25-26 April, and 26-27 April, each by over 100 aircraft, did increasingly severe damage. By the time the dust settled and the fires went out, nearly 2,300 buildings had been destroyed or severely damaged, and 60 percent of the town was burnt out. Once again, aerial photographs confirmed damage and facilitated detailed analyses.*2  With Bomber Command now committed to incendiary raids, Harris placed great emphasis on the development of bombing tactics, techniques, and navigational aids. The Intelligence Directorate expanded as damage assessments, far from merely providing photographic interpretation and written analysis, began to influence selection of future targets. As German towns came under sustained attack, assessments produced at CIU’s K Section and at Bomber Command’s Intelligence 1 (Target Intelligence and Damage Assessment) Section (designated Int. 1) told airmen whether a town required immediate follow-up attacks or was so heavily damaged that bombers could move to the next objective. To assist with this process, Int. 1 built an industrial card index that gave analysts access to specific information on towns and their industries. This intelligence came from MEW, CIU, and the air staff. From there, Int. 1 built photo mosaics of all major cities, noting high-value targets. The CIU provided photos for this massive effort, which was well under way by early 1942. At the same time, Int. 1 built