orming their duties. Each observation group kept one copy of every photo in the Intelligence Office and two in the Operations Room. “The Intelligence Officer,” it continued,  will keep a card index of photographs taken, showing the size of camera used, coordinates of the center, index number of the photograph, altitude and date on which taken, together with a record of the character of the photograph. . . a stereoscopic instrument and magnifying glass must be available for the study and interpretation of photographs.**  This guidance hints at two quintessentially Anglo-American qualities vital to air intelligence developments in both world wars. The first was a penchant for organizing, storing, analyzing, and disseminating intelligence systematically. The second was an affinity for technology to improve organizational effectiveness. The stereoscopic instrument is a humble example, but an important one for the development of photointerpretation. It allowed users to view photographs in three dimensions where there is a 60-degree overlap between frames. The British and Americans discovered this in 1918 and took full advantage of it to reveal secrets hidden in the shadows, light, and perspective that comprised aerial photos.  Despite intelligence organizational evolution in the Air Service, problems hampered the tasking of intelligence collection platforms as well as the reporting and dissemination of damage assess- ments. For instance, every branch of the army had its own photo sections at unit and headquarters level, all of which received tasking in isolation, resulting in duplication of effort. The huge number of photos coming from units also overwhelmed intelligence officers at headquarters. Finally, the lack of a centralized photointerpretation unit was a major weakness that would await correction with the British (later Allied) Central Interpretation Unit at RAF Medmenham in World War II.*©  Intelligence: A Contested and Political Commodity  By summer 1918, the Br