00 tons (42 percent) in December.126 This pointed to a potential re- surgence in oil production.  The news was not all bad, though. Not only were the Ruhr oil plants out of action and now policed as needed, Mr. Lawrence also said the rate of repair of Ruhr oil plants was slower than expected, theorizing that repair capability declined as plants received progressive damage, leading to a point where only major structural repairs could get them running again. The Allies confirmed this in post- war surveys.4% In addition, earlier production estimates proved too high. Although the Germans got oil plants back online more quickly than expected, output was often under 25 percent of capacity. Production was at most 400,000 tons in October (30 percent of preattack capacity) and 450,000 (34 percent) in November. Also, the former head of the German oil administration in Bucharest, now in Russian hands, corroborated assessments that the Germans had at most a month of oil reserves. “The problem of providing petroleum,” he concluded, “has become the central problem in the Reich.”122  Equally ominous for the Germans was the start of Bomber Command night precision raids against distant Bergius plants. A 6-7 December attack on Leuna did serious damage. It involved the use of H2S Mark III for navigation to target and Pathfinder Force marking by twelve Mosquito aircraft in advance of the 475 Lancasters comprising the main force. Night-strike photo plots showed excellent bomb concentration despite considerable cloud cover. Bomber Command crews had proven that night precision attacks on targets beyond Oboe’s range could work.122  In addition, every time the Germans tried to disperse oil production or build new plants, photointerpreters detected their efforts. Intelligence specialists confirmed that Moosbierbaum, an oil refinery and processing plant near Vienna, was the same one dismantled at Port Jerome in France for relocation to the Caucasus. It refined crude oil and produced a high-gr