wn right. The fact that Eaker and Cabell led a series of huge air campaigns, fought out in the largest active military theater of operations in Europe, stands as a testament to their effective use of air intelligence. They supported Tedder’s trans- portation plans as enthusiastically as they supported Spaatz’s oil plan precisely because they saw their complementary and important effects.  So what are we to make of this question of the uses of intelligence? Clearly, some used it more wisely than others, and nobody in senior positions was immune to its misuse. Harris and Spaatz in particular may have remained airpower zealots, but Harris, unlike his American counterpart, never admitted that bombing could not force a decision on its own.28 However, most senior airmen and soldiers relied on intelligence heavily and used it effectively to plan and track the progress of air campaigns. Arguments leading up to the 25 March 1944 meeting were unfortunate and bitter, but they were not the rule, even if other contentious intelligence-operational-political issues did arise, most notably the Portal-Harris argument about oil attacks in fall and winter 1944-1945.  The Civilian-Casualties Issue  On 29 March 1944 Portal told Churchill that Eisenhower had chosen the transportation plan as “the best way for the strategic bombers to pave the way for a successful OvVERLORD.”22 Their primary target, however, would continue to be the Luftwaffe in an effort to ensure air supremacy over the Normandy battle area. Churchill approved the draft directive, and Portal signed it on behalf of the Combined Chiefs of Staff. It went into immediate effect. However, Portal’s warning that raids on marshaling yards could result in heavy civilian casualties gave Churchill pause, despite Eisenhower’s awareness of the problem and a plan to warn civilians living near rail yards to move away. The letter also emphasized that the transportation plan would not interfere greatly with Bomber Command’s city attacks—s