d instructed there while awaiting assignment overseas. In this position, he became familiar with James Bagley’s three-lens camera that used film rather than plates, had a greater field of coverage than any other camera then in service, and accommodated lenses with different focal lengths. With a viewfinder designed by Goddard, it also provided 60 percent overlap of photos, allowing stereoscopic viewing. Along with the K-1 film camera, which joined it near the end of the war, Bagley’s camera was the mainstay of American aerial photography during the early interwar period. The K-1 carried film 9 inches wide with a 75-picture capacity. Thanks to Dr. Kenneth Mees of Eastman Kodak, with whom Goddard developed a close association over the next two decades, this film was the best in the world, providing high-resolution prints ideally suited for photointerpretation.4®  As the war drew to a close, Mitchell assigned Goddard to McCook Field in Dayton, Ohio, where he became director of aerial photographic research and development. In October 1920, he became photographic officer, training and operations, Air Service Headquarters, Washington, D.C., where he pushed aerial photography forward as fast as a peacetime military and a small budget allowed.4®  One of Goddard’s key priorities, which did not come to fruition until the Cold War, was a dedicated photoreconnaissance aircraft. “A longtime dream of mine,” he said, “had been a plane designed especially for aerial photographic work but because of the money problems I had known it was out of the question.”“2 Goddard might also have mentioned that it was more than a matter of money.  Page 53 of 423 14%  Oscar Westover, chief of the Army Air Corps. Westover succeeded in convincing several chief executive officers to let the Air Corps photograph their factories. Aerial photographs meeting ACTS specifications arrived on Lieutenant Colonel Curry’s desk, along with a memo signed by the general, on 8 August 1932. They included shots of t