as implicit, it was basic to the success of the entire enterprise. The fact that the survey’s authors were intelligence officers who understood the damage-assessment process as it had developed in 1917-1918 is significant.  American advocacy of systematic and heavy bombing target by target, and the belief that morale bombing was largely ineffective, were the two most important consequences of the survey’s dissemination. In fact, ACTS training courses, the development of AWPD-1 and its successor, AWPD-42, and World War II bombing campaigns all underscore the degree to which American airmen came to support the ideas reflected in the survey.2©  The implications of the postwar bombing surveys are clear. Whatever incentive the British had to retain a substantive air intelligence capability largely disappeared in the wake of the 1920 version of their survey. However, given the extreme fiscal austerity of the immediate postwar period, it is anything but clear that such a capability would have survived or developed even had the survey arrived at different conclusions. The American report is a case in point. Despite the survey’s findings in favor of precision daylight bombardment and against morale bombing, most of the required intellectual infrastructure disapveared bv the earlv 1920s and did not reappear until 1941. Yet the precedent was set in the final months of World War I. and the summarv of the American bombing survev. which  Page 34 of 423 10%  Say a aS ee ea a! ee eS ae ee eee ee Se eee eee ee ee ee ee ee eee eee eee ee SS See eT made civilian morale an alluring target for British airmen, particularly once daylight bombing failed in 1939-1940.  The American survey arrived at different conclusions, and although the full report was misfiled and lost until 1974, the executive summary made it to several locations, including ACTS, where it exerted a key influence on the development of strategic bombing doctrine.2° The report noted the indirect effects of bombing, includi