ove the unit from RAF Medmenham to RAF Pinetree. The move proved beneficial because once K Section joined the 1st PID at Pinetree in May 1944, the entire first-phase and second-phase damage-assessment apparatus was located next door to the British reconnaissance squadrons at Benson and the USAAF units at Mount Farm. This resulted in faster production and dissemination of K  Page 158 of 423 40%  ils LULL AC Valllabe OF Lie OPETAUULlal CAPELICIICE OF ULE DIitishl Uilils, “~  Cooperation in the reconnaissance arena was equally crucial to the development of an effective damage assessment process for American bombing. From the outset, British photographic reconnaissance units (PRUs) flew sorties for 8th Air Force. By 1943, all American requests for reconnaissance cover went directly to the assistant director of intelligence, photography (ADI(Ph)) at the Air Ministry, which prioritized all such requests from British and American customers. ADI(Ph) exercised operational control over the PRUs and the Central Interpretation Unit (CIU) by putting in place centralized requirements-management and collection-management processes. To enhance this effort, Eaker reminded Portal that the Northwest African Air Force reconnaissance capability was already a combined operation and worked very well. He proposed that reconnaissance and photointerpretation be structured the same way in Great Britain. “American Photo Reconnaissance and Photo Interpretation activity,” Eaker said, “must be closely integrated for control and coordination with similar British agencies.”*4 By September, these combined operations procedures, already in place for nine months, were codified in a USAAF instruction directing that all American requests for aerial photography be mailed direct to ADI(Ph) via courier or made via secure phone call. **  In October, the Bomber Command and 8th Air Force intelligence directorates (Int. 1 and A-2) met to determine how best to produce and share damage reports of mutual interest