yment of bombing an enemy’s industrial and other war-making capabilities. It served, in a sense, as a dress rehearsal for the huge heavy-bomber campaigns against the Third Reich. These played a pivotal role in Allied victory by shortening both casualty lists and the war in Europe. Recently discovered primary sources from German, British, and American archives have prompted a reappraisal of the heavy-bomber campaigns’ effects on Germany’s war effort. Although previously seen as important, they were in fact absolutely central to the speed and decisiveness of the Grand Alliance’s victory. One of the most startling things about these developments was the degree to which bombing succeeded or failed in its stated aims based on the relative efficacy of air intelligence inputs. The Anglo-American bombing campaigns against Germany relied heavily on air intelligence for targeting information and bomb damage assessment reports. These gave airmen key insights on bombing’s individual effects and its aggregate effective- ness in support of grand and military strategy.  Air intelligence had already emerged as a new specialty during the Great War, but by 1918, an intellectual infrastructure with organizational and technological components had developed in the British and American air arms. The organizational elements encompassed air staffs with intelligence specialists assigned and unit-level intelligence sections to assess the effects of individual bombing raids. Technologies included reconnaissance aircraft and cameras to collect photographs on the effects of bombing raids. Although these intelligence capabilities, much like bombers and ideas about their proper use, remained embryonic during the Great War, they set a precedent for World War II. Surprisingly, both the operations and intelligence halves of this crucial formative capability survived during the interwar period, despite organizational retrenchment. The emergence of a strategic bombing doctrine and a four-engine bomber