e bombing that had already ravaged Hamburg, every city in the Ruhr, and so many other urban areas. Things were in- deed getting strange in the morale-bombing debate, all at a point when morale was no longer mentioned in the POINTBLANK directive!  Spaatz made his volte-face in January 1945, by which time he was an ardent supporter of THUNDERCLAP’s Berlin variant.1®2 Doolittle now had to apply common sense and question the need to bomb a city with no military targets anywhere near the aim point, which happened to be the city center. He reminded Spaatz: “The chances of terrorizing into submission, by merely an increased concentration of bombing, a people who have been subjected to intense bombing for four years is extremely remote.”!°3 Spaatz remained adamant and instructed Doolittle that Berlin was to be attacked “whenever conditions do not—repeat not—indicate possibility of visual bombing of oil targets.”164 Spaatz’s motives are unclear to say the least. He fought publicity for the THUNDERCLAP raid on Berlin and its potential to disrupt the flow of reinforcements to the Russian Front. Spaatz thus appears at least momentarily to have abandoned opposition to morale bombing, given his insistence that the city center, not its marshaling yards, be the aim point. The raid on Berlin by more than 1,000 USAAF bombers on 3 February 1945 featured visual bombing with the aim point at city center—hardly in line with USAAF doctrine. Bomber Command did not follow up with night raids. Predictably, the Nazis stayed in power.  Development of operations HURRICANE I and II on the heels of THUNDERCLAP was designed to force Germany out of the war before the end of 1944 with massive and unrelenting bombing. (This, of course, had already been ongoing for several years, which further begs the question.) Developed after the failure of MARKET-GARDEN, these plans were a last-ditch effort to secure victory in 1944. HURRICANE’s purpose was to deliver a massive blow to a vital target set—oil—and u