ailheads, now 100 miles or more from the front, to haul fuel, ammunition, and rations. They did this at night, over bad roads, and under constant threat of air attack.122 Finally, fighter-bombers targeted fuel trucks, destroying most of them before their divisions made it into combat.123 The result of these calamities for every unit was a major fuel shortfall from the outset and, as the complementary effects of transportation and oil attacks intensified, increasingly severe shortages. The fuel shortfalls this synergy caused were both distribution driven and the result of absolute shortages as fuel production plummeted.  By the time 1st SS Panzer Division and other units arrived on the line in early July, the men were tired, had suffered serious losses from fighterbomber attacks, and went into combat in small packets. Their heavy equipment, if it arrived at all, was worn down and constantly low on fuel. Many tanks and other vehicles broke down during the long road marches and were destroyed by fighter-bomb- ers before repair crews could get to them.  The perils of 1st SS Panzer Division were representative of those endured by all units moving toward Normandy and indicated how severely the combination of heavy-bomber and fighter-bomber attacks (along with mediums and night bombers) undermined the ability to move, concentrate, and maneuver. Destruction of marshaling yards and bridges pushed back railheads, forcing units to detrain and make dangerous road marches, using up fuel increments, wearing out heavy equipment, and taking casualties from night and fighter-bomber attacks. Combat power and cohesion eroded as exhausted troops and worn-down equipment arrived in small packets and went into battle without unit integrity. Once on the line and short of gasoline and ammunition resulting from sparse rail shipments and the exhaustion of supplies in local depots, divisions sent their trucks to railheads for supplies, with all the risks previously enumerated. Thus, the German