ferent factories of each. This study should ascertain how one industry is dependent on another and what the most important factories of each are. A decision should be reached as to just what factories if destroyed would do the greatest damage to the enemy’s military organization as a whole. On these factor- ies the entire available bombing force should be concentrated until it is satisfied that the factory is crippled. Once the plan of bombardment is chosen it should be held to religiously and a choice of immediate targets affected only by weather conditions and airplanes available. Factories should be bombed night and day successively as far as the weather will permit until the desired results are thought to have been accomplished.2%  The italicized portions of the text relate directly to the question of damage assessment, and although the requirement was implicit, it was basic to the success of the entire enterprise. The fact that the survey’s authors were intelligence officers who understood the damage-assessment process as it had developed in 1917-1918 is significant.  American advocacy of systematic and heavy bombing target by target, and the belief that morale bombing was largely ineffective, were the two most important consequences of the survey’s dissemination. In fact, ACTS training courses, the development of AWPD-1 and its successor, AWPD-42, and World War II bombing campaigns all underscore the degree to which American airmen came to support the ideas reflected in the survey.2©  The implications of the postwar bombing surveys are clear. Whatever incentive the British had to retain a substantive air intelligence capability largely disappeared in the wake of the 1920 version of their survey. However, given the extreme fiscal austerity of the immediate postwar period, it is anything but clear that such a capability would have survived or developed even had the survey arrived at different conclusions. The American report is a case in point. Despite the surve