of precision as well as area raids.  As Americans began to arrive in large numbers, the British provided photointerpretation expertise to gauge the effects of 8th Air Force bombing. Fortunately for both parties, the visits by Majors Cabell and Hutchison in 1941 had already paid huge dividends in the establishment of Army Air Forces Air Intelligence School (AAFAIS) with its photointerpreters’ course, which gave USAAF interpreters the basic skills they needed to begin working in existing British organizations. This proved vital to the success of the combined air intelligence effort. The British were relieved because the Americans’ willingness to fit into existing British operations meant the ACIU would not have to change radically to accommodate their arrival. A British report later remarked that “our Allies, who adapted themselves admirably to the existing frame-work and collaborated whole-heartedly in the reconnaissance and interpretation effort ... were well equipped on arrival and were not long in tak- ing full advantage of the operational experience of the British Units.”=2  Cooperation in the reconnaissance arena was equally crucial to the development of an effective damage assessment process for American bombing. From the outset, British photographic reconnaissance units (PRUs) flew sorties for 8th Air Force. By 1943, all American requests for reconnaissance cover went directly to the assistant director of intelligence, photography (ADI(Ph)) at the Air Ministry, which prioritized all such requests from British and American customers. ADI(Ph) exercised operational control over the PRUs and the Central Interpretation Unit (CIU) by putting in place centralized requirements-management and collection-management processes. To enhance this effort, Eaker reminded Portal that the Northwest African Air Force reconnaissance capability was already a combined operation and worked very well. He proposed that reconnaissance and photointerpretation be structured the same way i