onnel learned too slowly that destruction of distribution facilities shut down operations. Denial of fuel was just as important as its destruction. A CSTC survey team said, “The amounts of fuel destroyed, or denied to the Germans through the destruction of depot facilities, far exceeded our expectations.” Also, because synthetic oil plants and crude oil refineries had been sending fuel, fuel components, and lubricating oils directly to depots to minimize the chances they would be destroyed by air raids, depots in fact completed the final steps in the production process, including bulk breaking and blending.®* Air intelligence officers missed these crucial facts.  Increasing RAF Contributions and Overall Effects  As intelligence officers struggled with questions surrounding the efficacy of attacking fuel depots, Bufton sent a memo to Portal on 7 July 1944 noting that there was as yet no formal directive for Bomber Command attacks on synthetic oil plants in the Ruhr. He said that destroying these plants was vital to the campaign’s success. As Bufton noted, “Not only because of the intrinsic importance of these plants, but also in the interests of the prestige of the R.A.F. vis-a-vis the Americans, I consider it of extreme importance that Bomber Command should achieve success against the Ruhr plants without delay. The urgency of the task is such that the Americans must destroy them if Bomber Command do not.”26 The circumstances surrounding Bomber Command’s major and continuing contributions to the oil campaign are complex and not entirely clear. As Webster and Frankland make clear in their official history, Air Ministry officers, including Portal and Bufton, very much wanted increased Bomber Command attacks on oil, especially in the Ruhr, so as to deny the Americans all the glory for destroying these vital targets. However, authority for use of heavy bombers rested with Eisenhower, and the precise guidance either he or Portal gave Harris to go after oil aggressively is