ten destroyed cargo along with the trucks. The German army’s combat power would thus be compromised by constant and severe supply shortages. The Germans in Italy had been fortunate to defend a mountainous peninsula ill-suited to effective air attack. Their comrades in France would not be so lucky.  The Spaatz/EOU Oil Plan  Spaatz’s plan, which his staff developed in just thirty-six hours, called for an all-out attack on oil production to immobilize the Wehrmacht. At Spaatz’s request, EOU also planned attacks on bridges over the Seine and Loire rivers to delay troops and supplies, a supplemental plan Spaatz chose not to argue at the 25 March 1944 meeting. Spaatz gave his staff three requirements: provide air supremacy for the invasion; speed the possible collapse of Germany before an invasion; and, if Germany did not collapse, provide maximum support for OVERLORD.2* Spaatz said his advocacy of the oil option did not imolv that attacks on transvortation assets should not vlav a strong vart in isolating the battle area. He emphasized in private discussions that bridge attacks would address this issue. Svaatz also  Page 191 of 423 47%  Italy’s rail and road networks. Note the relative density of both, given the peninsula’s narrow and difficult geography. (Eduard Mark, Aerial Interdiction in Three Wars [Washington, D.C.: Center for Air Force History, 1994], 92)  Zuckerman’s association with Signor Caliendo, chief engineer of the Italian Ministry of Communications, also yielded insights for planning transportation attacks in France. Caliendo said that “the heavy bombardment of important railway targets has a more consistent and lasting effect” than attacks on rail lines. Destruction of locomotive repair shops, signaling and switching apparatus, roundhouses, and communications equipment at rail centers had a major and long-term impact. Caliendo said the 18 April 1943 raid on Palermo’s marshaling yards caused severe damage, as had the 19 July 1943 and 7 March 1944 attacks o