eading them across multiple target sets in tiny numbers—often one or two bombers—even though their operational directive still made oil the number one priority. During the seventeen-day period between 23 August and 8 September 1940, for instance, British bombers carried out thirty-one attacks against twenty different oil targets, including seven synthetic oil plants, four crude oil refineries, and nine oil storage depots. However, they also made fifty-seven attacks on thirty-five other targets, including eight aircraft factories, one aluminum plant, five chemical and explosives plants, five natural gas and coke-oven targets, seven electric plants and transformer stations, two iron and steel plants, three shipbuilding targets, and four engineering firms. Of these raids, thirty-five were made by one bomber, ten by two bombers, and another nine by three bombers. Most of the rest were  mada hy faur ta civ aireraft Only cavan raide invalvad tan ar mara hamhare tha larcact urith turantiy Racawea aach modinm hamhar carried anh 9 GAN naunde anf hamhe attaclad at nicht and had  Page 104 of 423 27%  Clo, 1k AaVILlE OLE LO WOLTLGET LOW aAllyYOle COUIG TlaVe VEE VEU LIE Se LEPOrts.  Portal did not and set out to secure more reliable assessments. Writing to the Air Ministry about “the lack of information on the results of our bomber attacks, and the very small number of photographs which it has been found possible to take of objectives which have been bombed,” he asked for more photos and an oil expert to help him interpret them.” Portal received both, the former from an increasingly capable PDU with larger numbers of Spitfires, and the latter in the form of D. A. C. Dewdney, a civilian oil expert. However, both soon exposed poor bombing accuracy. In the days after raids on oil targets in December 1940, when PDU Spitfires began taking poststrike photos regularly and PIU interpreters began producing damage reports, it quickly became clear that aircrews al- most always missed thei