IF air offensive was the statement that “it would be no exaggeration to say that every unit of the Independent Force immobilizes at least 50 times its fighting value from the ranks of the enemy.” When combined with his assertion that “at present the moral effect of bombing stands undoubtedly to the material effect in a proportion of 20 to 1, and therefore it was necessary to create the greatest moral effect possible,” it becomes clear that Trenchard was fixated on morale effects.® His claims ultimately proved hollow. Perhaps most revealing, despite Trenchard’s public assertions that the morale effect of bombing had been “great—very great,” is his private diary entry on the day of the Armistice: “Thus the Independent Force comes to an end. A more gigantic waste of effort and personnel there has never been in any war.”22  Despite the fact that Trenchard’s views on bombing prevailed in Great Britain, Tiverton exerted tremendous influence on American strategic bombing advocates during and after World War I. His advocacy of precision bombing, by definition, required damage assessments to determine bombing’s effects and effectiveness, a fact not lost on American airmen. Ironically, Tiverton had far more in- fluence on American bombing theory, doctrine, and practice than he did on his countrymen, who filed his records away.  Gorrell  Then-Major Edgar S. Gorrell became head of the Strategical [Bombing] Section, Zone of Advance, American Expeditionary Force, in September 1917. While serving in Paris, he met Lord Tiverton, whose writings on strategic bombing he read avidly. In fact, it is now clear that the “Gorrell Plan” for the strategic bombing of Germany, long attributed to the American, was in fact a copy of Tiverton’s draft strategic bombing plan combined with Trenchard’s ideas about morale effects and Gorrell’s own views that bombing should be a day-and-night, around-the-clock effort to destroy key target sets, and especially the bottleneck targets within them. A lette