er, not its marshaling yards, be the aim point. The raid on Berlin by more than 1,000 USAAF bombers on 3 February 1945 featured visual bombing with the aim point at city center—hardly in line with USAAF doctrine. Bomber Command did not follow up with night raids. Predictably, the Nazis stayed in power.  Development of operations HURRICANE I and II on the heels of THUNDERCLAP was designed to force Germany out of the war before the end of 1944 with massive and unrelenting bombing. (This, of course, had already been ongoing for several years, which further begs the question.) Developed after the failure of MARKET-GARDEN, these plans were a last-ditch effort to secure victory in 1944. HURRICANE’S purpose was to deliver a massive blow to a vital target set-—oil—and undermine the German ability to resist. (The first variant concentrated on massive bombing of oil and transportation targets in the Ruhr—Harris’s preference; the second on all as-yet-unhit transportation targets in Germany—Spaatz’s preference.) Morale was, in theory, an incidental target. Bufton’s view, based on a 30 September 1944 meeting he chaired at the Air Ministry, clashed with those of his American counterparts. The Americans wanted attacks across Germany, while Bufton wanted concentration on Ruhr oil targets. In his summary, Bufton said, “the Ruhr appeared to be the only place where the concentration in time and space required for the proposed operation could be effected.”16 Participants agreed that USSTAF heavies would attack Ruhr oil plants while Bomber Command concentrated on “selected fully built-up areas in the Ruhr cities which had not as yet been appreciably damaged.”155 The aim was to bring Germany to collapse with massive doses of airpower. Again, morale was clearly a target.  On 13 October 1944, Spaatz and Harris received a directive to plan for HURRICANE I and II.4® A circumscribed version of HURRICANE I went forward against Duisburg on 14 and 15 October, and against Essen on 23 and 26 Octob