ivisions in the west. Note how many had to come from outside Normandy in the unsuccessful effort to throw the Allies back into the sea. These are the units the transportation offensive targeted, along with those coming from outside the west. (Mark, Aerial Interdiction, 212)  The fuel situation was crucial. Panzer and Panzer Grenadier divisions carried with them three to five fuel increments (Versorgungssdtze), each allowing a move of 100 kilometers (62 miles) over dry paved roads. This division-level fuel reserve was intended for use after the unit went into combat. In this case, however, 1st SS Panzer Division used most of its fuel merely to reach the front.12° There, it found many fuel depots destroyed by fighterbombers or depleted by other units. In addition, too little fuel arrived on trains, which could only be brought in at night and then only if repair crews managed to repair a bridge over the Seine long enough to get the train over and back before Allied aircraft attacked again.424 To make matters worse for 1st SS Panzer and all other divisions, they had to demotorize by sending their entire complement of trucks to the railheads, now 100 miles or more from the front, to haul fuel, ammunition, and rations. They did this at night, over bad roads, and under constant threat of air attack.422 Finally, fighter-bombers targeted fuel trucks, destroying most of them before their divisions made it into combat.122 The result of these calamities for every unit was a major fuel shortfall from the outset and, as the complementary effects of transportation and oil attacks intensified, increasingly severe shortages. The fuel shortfalls this synergy caused were both distribution driven and the result of absolute shortages as fuel production plummeted.  By the time 1st SS Panzer Division and other units arrived on the line in early July, the men were tired, had suffered serious losses from fighterbomber attacks, and went into combat in small packets. Their heavy equipment, if