. The distillation and cracking plants at both types of facilities were also vital, but for production of fuel rather than of oil from coal. Equally vulnerable were overhead pipes for conveying steam pressure to various plant components. Without this high-pressure steam, the plants could not function.  Bell continued his correspondence with Air Vice Marshal Norman Bottomley at the Air Staff, providing suggestions on the best tactics and bombs for oil targets and comparative insights on Belgian and Dutch oil infrastructures. Bottomley and his counterparts at the Air Ministry also learned a good bit from an article in a French professional journal analyzing the types of bombs Germans had used on Polish oil refineries and depots. They used a mix of 550-pound high-explosive bombs and small incendiary munitions, the first to collapse oil tanks and the second to ignite spilled oil. By No- vember 1939, Bottomley was referring to “our oil plan” in an internal Bomber Command minute. The first oil raids were not long in coming.  Executing and Assessing the First Oil Offensive  The focus of this first oil offensive, which ran intermittently from May 1940 to March 1941, was ostensibly on oil, but the excessive dispersion of effort on many target sets, including aircraft, aluminum, chemicals and explosives, electric power, iron and steel, and shipbuilding, ensured that Bomber Command’s limited assets produced meager results. The profound discouragement caused by these results and the requirement to attack barges in the Channel ports led to the gradual abandonment of this first effort. However, in the process, the British learned much about the value and use of intelligence sources.  The effort against oil and the many other targets during this period was in essence an attempt at “night precision” bombing. Heavy losses in daylight raids during 1939-1940 accelerated the shift to night bombing begun with the disaster at Heligoland Bight in December 1939. The problems with this appr