utchison to British photoreconnaissance and photointerpretation units in 1941. The recommendations they made had a profound influence on the development of American damage-assessment capabilities. The most important was for the formation of a USAAF photointerpreters’ school, which became part of the Army Air Forces Air Intelligence School (AAFAIS) in February 1942. In 1944 AAFAIS became the Intelligence Division, School of Applied Tactics, Orlando, Florida.  However, long before the new schoolhouse became operational, the first American photointerpreters were already learning from British experts. In August and October 1941, a total of nine American USAAF officers with photointerpretation experience studied at the CIU to develop an understanding of CIU procedures and the latest interpretation capabilities and techniques, and carried this information back to the United States. They later played key roles at AAFAIS in developing its curriculum and working as instructors. This close interaction, which began before the Americans became cobelligerents, resulted in many air intelligence successes.  After America’s entry into the war, seven more USAAF officers arrived at the CIU in June 1942 to attend the four-week British photointerpreters’ school at RAF Nuneham Common and from there went to work for Colonel Robert Bacon, the 8th Air Force director of intelligence (A-2). In August 1942, Bacon established the Provisional Photographic Interpretation Unit (PPIU). This USAAF unit worked at the CIU under British tutelage in duty sections the Americans and British agreed would maximize the professional development of USAAF interpreters and provide important operational  a eelebe es Be tS AREY Thee OA eet et ce 2h 6 MOTTE ad otek cee One eect eed ad ee th oe tee hd A ee he Bt a Oe hh DP a Me de ad Lt  Page 130 of 423 33%  ~  Political Impacts on Air Intelligence: U-Boat Raids  One thing even the 4,000-pound heavy-charge variant could not do, however, was penetrate the concrete U