eams provided timely damage assessments of their attacks on fuel supplies, trains, barges, and other logistical assets, which complemented Allied bomb- ing raids on marshaling yards, bridges, viaducts, and canals.©@  From a command-and-control perspective, the Technical Control Office also deserves mention. This office fielded production requests from outside agencies, first via ADI(Ph) and then, beginning in May 1944, from the JPRC. A subordinate body known as the Progress Section logged and prioritized all production requests, directed ACIU sections to complete them, checked their progress, assembled and confirmed the quality of all completed jobs, and dispatched the resulting reports via courier to other agencies. By 1944, the Technical Control Office received and dispatched an average of 350 orders per day.  By the end of the war, 566 officers and 1,186 other ranks were assigned to the ACIU, nearly 1,050 of whom were American. Although this paled compared with the 12,000 personnel at Bletchley Park, it was not an indication of lesser importance. In fact, the two sources—photoreconnaissance and signals intelligence—increasingly relied on one another to provide a complete picture of bomb damage.”° The print library contained 6.5 million prints stored on 2.5 miles of shelves. The Photographic Section handled 60,000 tins of film per month and had several multiprinters capable of producing 1,000 photos per hour. Although the ACIU had not yet grown so large in 1943, it was essentially mature and capable of providing reports to hundreds of customers within hours. These reports provided a foundation for detailed third-phase damage assessments produced at RE8 and MEW. By summer 1943, the ACIU was mature and able to determine bombing effects and effective- ness, which were intensifying rapidly with the arrival of American heavy bombers.  USAAF Raids on Aircraft Factories and Ball-Bearing Plants  From summer 1943 to spring 1944, USAAF heavy bombers and fighter escorts (onc