, he said the combination of air attacks on all points of the fuel pipeline, poor roads, poorly trained truck drivers, and the need to drive slowly and at night resulted in utterly inadequate fuel supplies. The cutting of railroad bridges in eight cities also “devastatingly contributed to the  halting af tha Avdannane Aan oie 9142  Page 326 of 423 77%  eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee 290,000 to 45,000 tons. It plunged in early 1945, culminating by March in the collapse of Germany’s war economy. Too few trains arrived at the mines to cart away coal, so there was nowhere to store the mountains of ore piling up. This had a catastrophic effect on weapons production and movement of finished weapons, ammunition, fuel, and components.122 Intelligence specialists tracked these developments.  This disastrous turn of events extended to inland waterways. Destruction of the Miihlheim bridge over the Rhine at Cologne in early October rendered the river unusable to barge traffic for three months. Traffic passing through the Munster Locks on the Dortmund-Ems canal declined from 1,430,000 tons per month until September 1944 to 66,000 tons in February 1945, a decrease of 95.4 percent.131  By March, the wagon supply had fallen to one-eighth that of July 1944, deliveries of hard coal to one-fifth, of brown coal to one-half, and of steel production to one-fifth. This led to failures in delivery of components for final weapons assembly and severe disruptions in the movements of weapons, ammunition, and fuel.122 The air intelligence organization clearly recognized these developments.  German records, some of which became available during the war via Ultra intercepts, also underscored the extent of economic and military catastrophes caused by transportation attacks. In fact, they indicated transportation attacks harmed the war effort even more seriously than either wartime damage assessments or early postwar studies indicated. Albert Speer’s wartime correspondence c