essments. They used these analyses to steer ever larger heavy-bomber forces against the most lucrative target sets. The process was gradual and involved many errors in target selection, damage assessment, and judgments about bombing efficacy.  It also involved frequent and outright misuse of intelligence as policy makers and senior commanders pushed their various strategic and operational preferences. This in turn resulted in operational errors as bombers attacked target sets that were not lucrative, attacked too many different kinds of targets simultaneously with inadequate forces, or, as with attacks on ballbearing and electric power plants, failed to attack lucrative target sets with sufficient persistence. Because intelligence was and is such a profoundly political and contestable commodity—and this will become evident throughout the narrative—senior leaders often used intelligence reports for their own purposes until the war’s end. This was perhaps the greatest detractor from an otherwise successful operations- intelligence effort.  The fourth factor keeping scholars from engaging in serious attempts to assess the effectiveness of Allied bombing has to do with the fact that many writings about the CBO have come at the problem from an operator’s perspective. Many of the books in this subgenre are outstanding, but they tend to grapple insufficiently with the larger questions of bombing’s effectiveness and contributions to Al- lied victory. They also ignore the huge planning and intelligence efforts that went into directing the operational employment of heavy bombers.  The last of these key functions—directing the bombing effort—is a primary concern of this work. The analytical tools allowing senior airmen to provide this guidance, including targeting, damage assessment, and munitions effectiveness assessment, are central to the narrative. So are the thousands of men and women who brought these skills to a peak of effectiveness not since equaled even in the age of