ucrative targets, the Germans could have resisted for perhaps another three or four months. Had they received even marginally adequate fuel and ammunition supplies, they could have engaged in some semb- lance of maneuver warfare, slowing their adversaries’ advance.  A reasonable estimate, then, for the degree to which oil and transportation attacks shortened the war and reduced Allied casualty lists is three to four months and 1,050,000 men killed or wounded. The bomber was not a war-winning weapon—nor was it viewed as such by most air and ground commanders—but it made the armies’ jobs arguably shorter and less costly than would otherwise have been the case. Air intelligence, and in particular precise damage assessments, proved central to this success.  Jointness (Army Support), Analytical Prowess, and the Interagency  Page 342 of 423 81%  which transportation and oil raids were intertwined and complementary. Milch observed that “the decisive moment was relatively late; it happened when you started large-scale attacks on our synthetic oil plants simultaneously with attacks on our communications.”22 Synergy of effects between the two, appearing in vital and often unlooked-for effects on the German war effort, proved extremely sig- nificant in undermining it.  So, too, did Ultra—or its absence. Before the attacks on the Luftwaffe, oil, and transportation, only the former used Enigma regularly to communicate. However, when oil attacks began, and when bomb damage denied the Germans reliable alternate forms of communication, a relative trickle of Ultra intercepts regarding heavy-bomber effects turned into a torrent. Although this was slightly less so for transportation attacks, even the Reichsbahn’s leadership turned to Ultra, and the German army was constantly discussing transportation attacks via the Enigma cipher. However, Ultra absolutely could not have provided a comprehensive damage-assessment picture on its own. Only when combined with photointelligence-based prod