percentage points of figures quoted in captured German damage records.*%  RE8 analysts soon used damage assessments in cooperation with their CIU counterparts to drive major changes in bombing focus during 1944-1945. They had connections with British plant managers, engineers, and architects who advised them on various aspects of damage assessments and munitions effectiveness, drawing on their own expertise and experiences with the German bombing of British plant and equipment. This close-knit network of subject-matter experts facilitated the production of RE8 reports.*2 In fact, the two organizations established a formal liaison function between Squadron Leader Dewdney of RE8 and Squadron Leader Tilling of the CIU. Together, they developed procedures for effective coordination and worked with their Bomber Command counterparts to establish damage-assessment methodologies.  The impetus for this effort had its origins in Bomber Command's concern that there was no clear method for determining damage to German cities or compiling this information. To address this, Int. 1 worked with the CIU, RE8, and MEW to develop damage dossiers for German cities. These files provided a summary of damage to date, rate of recovery, and the relative value of attacks in terms of damage to the enemy’s war effort. The object was to use cumulative damage assessments in these dossiers to make decisions about future attacks and aim points for each target. The dossiers facilitated rapid assessment of the relative value of each target, on the basis of current damage level, in comparison with those of other cities, which allowed airmen to determine which targets should have pri- ority for the next round of attacks.©2  The dossiers consisted of an analysis of bombers used in each raid, the bomb load carried, and the “effective” percentage of bomb load (that actually falling on the target). They also contained a keyed damage plot showing damage distribution in industrial and residential areas, wit