movement low during winter 1944-1945. (USAFA)  Despite Tedder’s advocacy, the picture was not entirely rosy. An ACIU F Section report on more than twenty recent attacks on rail centers showed that in no case was throughput entirely impaired. Only four attacks resulted in any interruption in service, and no more than 50 percent in any one case.#4 Sobered by this reminder that even good bombing using the technologies and techniques at hand was often not particularly accurate, the CSTC asked photointerpreters of F Section to publish a study every week to assist with determining target priorities. Central to the problem of poor accuracy was bad fall and winter weather. In a memo to Doolittle, Spaatz said 8th Air Force heavies would attack transportation targets under visual conditions if possible, and would attack cloud- covered targets using H2X if no other option existed. Bombers heading to oil targets should switch to alternate targets—transportation facilities—if weather reconnaissance reported primary targets to be cloud covered. In this case, the best H2X operators from each wing led each raid, “For it is our experience that even two or three wings’ bombs can put these targets out of commission.”22  The Ardennes Offensive: Diversion or Boon?  By December, the CSTC began shifting its focus to military-strategic transportation targets. The SHAEF G-2 representative, Group Captain Morley, said it would be possible “to disorganize the German railways to such an extent as to cause economic, as opposed to military, paralysis in Germany.”2° The CSTC’s meeting minutes from 13 December said, “the request of S.H.A.E.F. to attack targets which had some relation to military movements at any given time might not conflict with the primary aim of causing the maximum degree of economic disorganization. Mr. Lawrence said that he agreed that S.H.A.E.F’s request for the attack of particular targets would not conflict with the intention of causing economic disorganization.”22 This exc