sition of each aircraft in the bomber stream affected its accuracy. The latter revealed a tendency for bombs to creep back from aim points. As fires spread, aircrews toward the back of the bomber stream bombed the leading edges of those fires, resulting in poor accuracy. In February 1942, the CIU established N (Night Photography) Section to improve damage-assessment techniques.1£ Long before this, however, increasingly effective interpretation of night strike photos and bomb damage allowed the British to see just how inaccurate their bombing really was, driving a change of fundamental importance in bombing doctrine and operations.  The Butt Report and the Move to City Bombing  This change was a rapid move toward night city bombing. The pictures included several hundred night strike photos from missions in June-July 1941. Lord Cherwell, Churchill's scientific advisor, who believed bombing to be highly inaccurate, directed his secretary, D. M. B. Butt, to examine the photos and determine how badly aircrews were bombing. The Butt report, published 18 August 1941, confirmed Cherwell’s worst fears. Of aircraft actually attacking their targets, only one in three bombed within 5 miles of aim point. Including aircraft failing to bomb for various reasons, the number was one in five. There were also major variations in accuracy depending on target location, industrial haze, and moon state. The worst accuracy was against the Ruhr, which was often covered in haze, where only one in ten sorties bombed within 5 miles of the target. During full-moon periods, the figure was two in five, but during the new moon, only one in fifteen.12  The report produced a firm resolve to fix the problem. Lord Cherwell, in a memo to Churchill, said, “It makes depressing reading.”12 He emphasized the “supreme importance of improving our navigational methods,” pushing for development of a target-marking capability embodied in what came to be known as Pathfinder Force. These elite crews, brought toget