preattack conditions, but bombing of marshaling yards at Ghent, Lille, and Maubeuge caused delays of over a week. Attacks on rail centers around Paris forced the division to road march. Along the way, it was attacked regularly by fighter-bombers, suffering significant losses, and further delayed crossing the Seine, where the bridges were down. When the division finally arrived in Normandy, it was low on fuel, cohesion, and morale.442  Cherbourg  © Cotentin  Plan for Overtorp  D-day ~- Phase elessays  e Periers  ENGLAND  Page 220 of 423 5A%  Cotentin  Plan for : r'  Overtorp  elessays  e Periers  ENGLAND  ad &  Parachute Div @ 77th Intantry Div  >  ° Rennes  275th a QPP _@ intantry viv  The German Order of Battle  German divisions in the west. Note how many had to come from outside Normandy in the unsuccessful effort to throw the Allies back into the sea. These are the units the transportation offensive targeted, along with those coming from outside the west. (Mark, Aerial Interdiction, 212)  The fuel situation was crucial. Panzer and Panzer Grenadier divisions carried with them three to five fuel increments (Versorgungssdtze), each allowing a move of 100 kilometers (62 miles) over dry paved roads. This division-level fuel reserve was intended for use after the unit went into combat. In this case, however, 1st SS Panzer Division used most of its fuel merely to reach the front.12° There, it found many fuel depots destroyed by fighterbombers or depleted by other units. In addition, too little fuel arrived on trains, which could only be brought in at night and then only if repair crews  Page 220 of 423 5A%  Drop GE Zones y"  ENGLAND  3d e Parachute Div @~ 77th Infantry Div  @ Panzer Lon  ° om Rennes Loy  J  S> @ intantry viv 4  oe The German Order of FRANCE Battle  German divisions in the west. Note how many had to come from outside Normandy in the unsuccessful effort to throw the Allies back into the sea. These are the units the transportation offensive targeted, along