l plants, robbing the Germans not only of fuel, but also of explosives and propellants. The cumbersome manufacturing process in which ammunition components such as shell casings, fuses, explosives, and propellants were produced in different areas and then shipped to over 100 army ordnance depots for final assemblv was also seriouslv disruvted. In short. the combined effects of the oil and transvortation offensives produced a catastrovhic drov in both ammunition production and deliveries.2  Page 295 of 423 70%  system, this friction often deprived the Wehrmacnt of the replacement weapons, ammunition, and fuel necessary for maneuver warfare. Finally, the transportation campaign acted synergistically with oil attacks to produce several vital but often unanticipated effects, including, among other things, severe ammunition and heavy weapons shortages after fall 1944.  In view of these impacts, we might be tempted to say this final transportation offensive, and the associated intelligence effort, equaled the oil offensive’s successes. Four things argue against such an assertion. First was the inherent complexity of transportation attacks, which involved militarystrategic attacks on movements of coal and hence on the German war economy, deep interdiction of marshaling yards and bridges, and direct support of ground troops, all designed to hamper movement of reinforcements, weapons, ammunition, and fuel. The interplay of demands for these three types of attacks, itself a product of the vicissitudes of ground campaigns in the west and east, had a whipsaw effect that pulled heavy bombers from one kind of attack to another as the situation demanded. Second, bureaucratic infighting among intelligence agencies and their operational masters, who favored either transportation attacks (and, by extension, either a militarystrategic or op- erational-tactical focus for them) or oil raids, caused constant friction. The institutional preference for oil was the third issue affecting the