ght precision” bombing. Heavy losses in daylight raids during 1939-1940 accelerated the shift to night bombing begun with the disaster at Heligoland Bight in December 1939. The problems with this approach, from an air intelligence perspective, were significant. Strike photographs produced nothing but a series of bright dots. blobs. and lines representing flares. bomb hits. fires. tracers. and the flight paths of damaged bombers. Learning to decivher this information took time. and it was  Page 104 of 423 27%  gave analysts a clear idea of production at each location.  Photoreconnaissance also worked in conjunction with less well-known intelligence sources. Once Allied armies came into sustained contact with the enemy, mobile fuel-analysis laboratories analyzed samples of captured motor fuel, aircraft fuel, and lubricating oils to determine quality; frequency of maintenance on tanks, trucks, and aircraft; and levels of benzol, alcohol, and other substi- tutes mixed with fuel. They also published information on producer-gas vehicles. This provided key information on the importance of benzol, which led to concerted bombing of Ruhr benzol plants.  Thousands of oil assessments focused on production, consumption, reserves, and damage. Technical experts thus knew where each plant’s vital components were, whether they had been hit, and whether, given the presence or absence of steam emissions, a plant was out of commission or operating at reduced or full capacity. The quantity and location of steam emissions also told photointer- preters, within plus or minus seven days, when damaged plants would resume production.®®  From the earliest days of the war, oil experts tracked oil production, the capture of additional stocks, and fuel used in major operations. MEW analysts correctly assessed that heavy fuel consumption on the Eastern Front in 1942-1943, when combined with a large number of new economy measures in the Reich picked up by Ultra and other sources, signaled the impen