ustria and three in Hungary. The weekly bulletin closed with an upbeat assessment:  The Allied Air Forces are now presented with an unparalleled opportunity. It is within their power, by further attacks within the next few weeks, to create conditions of stringency which might well have decisive effects on the enemy’s ability to continue the war. .. . If this aim is to be achieved it is essential that the re-attack of potentially important producers should not await confirmation that the plants have resumed activity. In the present situation no opportunity should be lost of prolonging their inactivity by renewing the attack.12°  Although the Allies were not quite as close to finishing off the Reich as this analysis suggested, the German fuel situation had became disastrous.  Page 269 of 423 63%  without delay. The urgency of the task is such that the Americans must destroy them if Bomber Command do not.”26 The circumstances surrounding Bomber Command’s major and continuing contributions to the oil campaign are complex and not entirely clear. As Webster and Frankland make clear in their official history, Air Ministry officers, including Portal and Bufton, very much wanted increased Bomber Command attacks on oil, especially in the Ruhr, so as to deny the Americans all the glory for destroying these vital targets. However, authority for use of heavy bombers rested with Eisenhower, and the precise guidance either he or Portal gave Harris to go after oil aggressively is not evident in the historical record.22  Despite this unclear tasking process, Harris began concerted Bomber Command raids the night of 18-19 July with attacks on Wesseling and Scholven, both of which were put out of action for several weeks. Around 1,000 bombs landed in the Wesseling plant area, and another 550 on Scholven. The larger number of Gee and Oboe stations now on the Continent facilitated this accurate bombing. These attacks heralded the end of Ruhr oil production. Indeed, subsequent Bomber Comm