on of Roumanian supplies, in addition to the destruction of the synthetic oil plants might render Germany impotent before the end of 1941.”4 Aside from the fact that the British lacked the bombers to bring off this double play, they also needed permission to use Greek air bases—not a sure thing given Greek leaders’ concerns that such a move would invite a German attack.  Despite these issues, the War Committee, chaired by Churchill, approved the COS proposals.* This was no surprise, given Churchill’s interest in oil attacks and his statement to the secretary of state for air, Sir Archibald Sinclair, in November 1940, that he wanted a plan for bombing Ploesti from Greek air bases. Sinclair passed this order to his chief of air staff, Air Chief Marshal Sir Cyril Newall.£ His staff responded with a proposal to attack with five squadrons, dropping 258 tons of bombs per month, which he said would achieve 25 to 30 percent destruction of Ploesti refineries within four months.Z  Pronouncements about a two-pronged oil offensive were one thing; operational realities were another. Winter weather made attacks infrequent, and even with favorable conditions, crews went after virtually everything except oil. For the first four weeks after the War Committee confirmed oil as the top priority, bombers went after only one such target: an oil-storage facility in Holland. The eight Blenheims turned back without bombing. Then, beginning the night of 10-11 February, three interesting things happened. First, British bombers began attacking oil plants more frequently. Second, they did so in much larger strike packages of from forty to seventy aircraft. Third, they began making larger-scale attacks on cities, either as alternative targets or, increasingly, as primary targets. A 222-bomber raid on Hannover the night of 10-11 February was the largest attack to date.£ The first development was driven by a directive to Air Chief Marshal Peirse, head of Bomber Command, to get after oil targets. T