what less effective. Here again, the nature of the target set proved crucial. It was more diverse than the German oil industry but more bounded than the Reich’s extremely complex transportation network. The effectiveness of intelligence assessments for these target sets thus varied in direct correlation with their inherent complexity.  Looking back at the three largest bombing campaigns of the Second World War—the two transportation offensives and the oil offensive—we can draw some general conclusions about their role in Allied victory. First, they were built on three vital foundations: a huge air armada with 4,000 heavy bombers assigned by spring 1944, air supremacy, and effective air and economic intelligence sup- port. From a humble beginning in early 1940 with one dedicated photoreconnaissance Spitfire and the Aircraft Operating Company, the RAF’s photoreconnaissance squadrons and the Allied Central Interpretation Unit had by 1943 become capable intelligence providers. They were only part of a much larger, highly integrated, and exceptionally capable collection of agencies, including the Air Ministry, Research and Experiments Department Eight, Ministry of Economic Warfare, Railway Research Service, and Enemy Objectives Unit, which together made up a mature and crucial interagency structure. Despite inevitable bureaucratic friction, these agencies worked well together, sharing expertise and insights, and calling frequently on outside civilian expertise from the oil and transporta- tion industries as they planned these campaigns and assessed their effects and effectiveness.  The most notable exception—and there were others—was the partisan preinvasion debate in which intelligence organizations gave first loyalty to their political and operational masters. This was not intel’s proudest moment.  But taken as a whole, these agencies performed well, and they contributed much more than assessments of bombing’s effects and effectiveness. They also helped plan air campai