ccess. He further noted that any reduction in the German ability to move and concentrate forces would be worthwhile. In other words, he did not expect complete interdiction, but rather enough to give his troops the time they needed to get ashore and achieve a lodgment. The supreme commander’s views augured well for Tedder’s plan.2=  Spaatz then said he had given Eisenhower his views on the plan in a paper favoring oil installations as the key target set. He based his plan on three premises, themselves resting on intelligence of varying quality. The first was that attacks on rail yards could not have the required effect in the time given, but that the oil plan held forth greater promise of forcing the Germans to use their reserves and make a no-win decision about which of their fielded forces to starve for fuel. Although his latter proposition proved true, the assertion about transportation attacks, fed by inaccurate USSTAF/EOU analyses, was false. Eisenhower had already seen enough of Zuckerman’s reports to convince him that Spaatz was incorrect here. Spaatz’s second argument was that attacks on the rail system could not weaken German forces on all fronts simultaneously, while oil attacks could. Again, the oil piece of the assertion proved right; everything else was wrong. The immediate issue at hand, as Spaatz well knew, was not weakening the Germans on all fronts (that was a longer-term objective), but rather the means for allowing a successful invasion. Finally—and here Spaatz was absolutely right— he argued that raids on marshaling yards would not bring up German fighters, whereas attacks on oil would. He thus appealed to Tedder’s opening remarks confirming attacks on the Luftwaffe as the most important effort. This element of his argument had a telling influence on Eisenhower and all assembled.®*  Despite his strong advocacy for continuing attacks on the Luftwaffe, Spaatz missed two key opportunities to sway the decision further in his favor. Although the vario