nsport Net  ‘Bertin o  Oresden  GERMANY  Nuremberg @ @ Stuttgart  eh  ing the German war effort and ending the war quickly.  The most notable exceptions were Tedder and Zuckerman, who believed a concerted attack on railroads and inland waterways promised a rapid collapse of Germany’s war economy and thus of the Wehrmacht. Oil proponents, including Spaatz, Bottomley, Portal, Bufton, and Maxwell, won the argument. It would, however, be a serious error to dichotomize this problem. Oil’s primacy did not drive reductions in transportation attacks. In fact, as the weather worsened in fall 1944, transportation targets received a much greater share of bombs. Of 2,697,473 tons dropped on Axis targets, 36.3 percent went to transportation and 11.1 percent to oil. Transportation targets had second priority and were the defaults if weather conditions prevented oil raids, which they frequently did in the fall and winter of 1944-1945. Aircrews had standing orders to attack rail centers, regardless of weather, with blind-bombing techniques.  The synergy between transportation and oil attacks was also important. Mierzejewski makes only three references to the oil offensive, amounting to less than a page of text. Heavy-bomber cam- paigns against oil and transportation created complementary effects often unanticipated even by intelligence officers. This strong synergy between transportation and oil attacks developed during OVERLORD and the subsequent breakout and pursuit. Similar synergies developed as the oil offensive intensified and transportation attacks began in earnest by fall 1944. One example was the effect on the production and distribution of fuel and ammunition. The oil offensive destroyed synthetic oil plants, robbing the Germans not only of fuel, but also of explosives and propellants. The cumbersome manufacturing process in which ammunition components such as shell casings, fuses, explosives, and propellants were produced in different areas and then shipped to over 100 a