s process designed to achieve the maximum efficiency and effectiveness from a given worker or process.  Second in importance only to Cabell’s tours of PRU1 and the CIU was his visit with Group Captain F. C. V. Laws, the Air Ministry’s deputy director of photography. Cabell saw great value in a centralized office such as this, which was responsible for all aerial photography. Laws coordinated and directed RAF photographic policies, acted as liaison with the Ministry of Aircraft Production on the development and fielding of photographic equipment, provided data to the director general of equipment to implement photographic purchases, and served as chairman of the Standing Advisory Coordinating Committee on Photography and as a member of the Directorate of Scientific Research Photographic Committee. Because of this centralized effort, aerial photography had made huge strides. Laws reminded Cabell that the synergy between his organization and the PRUs was outstanding because the latter were ready-made test beds for all new equipment, allowing for rapid research, development, testing, and evaluation and fielding. Cabell was impressed, but he did see one weakness: a shortage of cameras aboard bombers for taking strike photographs. During night raids, for instance, only one aircraft in each squadron formation of twelve carried a camera. Although the British were in the process of installing more cameras, Cabell recommended the Americans install cam- eras before their bombers began flying combat missions. Arnold listened, and half of all USAAF bombers deployed to Great Britain had cameras.22  Hutchison’s Follow-up: Building Air Intelligence Training  Cabell’s report was so valuable that Arnold sent another USAAF officer, Major D. W. Hutchison, to Great Britain in October 1941 to gather more information and revalidate Cabell’s data. Hutchison visited the CIU’s training school at RAF Nuneham Common, adjacent to the CIU at RAF Medmenham. Primary training lasted four weeks with