r use in the production of formal damage assessments. When reports reached 8th and 15th Air Force, interpreters there compiled a master bomb plot for each mission.1°2 Other information came from the combat intelligence officer, including the number of aircraft in each raid, number and type of bombs used, altitude of bomb run, axis of attack, and aim point. Photointer- preters also gave special target identification briefings to navigators and bombardiers, highlighting key geographical features to assist in making the bomb run.2  Photointerpreters at the bombardment groups and higher echelons had to have a good working knowledge of German target systems. The AAFAIS manual for photographic intelligence contains detailed chapters covering various target sets, their significance, and their key vulnerabilities. Chapter 9, for instance, addressed German fuel production, explaining that each ton of coal processed in a synthetic oil plant yielded 40 gallons of gasoline, 50 gallons of diesel fuel, 35 gallons of fuel oil, and 10,000 cubic feet of fuel gas. It then provided insights on every major component of synthetic oil plants. This kind of detail was the norm. The manual gave USAAF photointerpreters a firm grounding in their discipline before they arrived at their duty stations.  By January 1944, the intellectual infrastructure for Allied air intelligence was mature. The technologies, technicians, and techniques required to produce accurate damage reports were in place, as was the centralized tasking, collection, and dissemination machinery based first on ADI(Ph) and after May 1944 on the JPRC. Photointerpreters had a deep knowledge of target sets, as did their counterparts and coworkers at RE8 and MEW. Intelligence experts and the organizational-intellectual infrastructure they had built over the previous four years were poised to support heavy-bomber campaigns in 1944-1945, and senior airmen were not long in letting them know what those campaigns would target.  Page 176