eded to light the way for the main body.22  Air Intelligence Supports the Shift to City Bombing  Intelligence supporting the new bombing doctrine was also evolving by 1942. The most fundamental variety—good photographic cover for targeting and damage-assessment purposes—was already in place. With each sortie covering 3,000 square miles, and with as many as thirty sorties per day photographing the Reich, fairly complete coverage was not long in coming. By September 1941, PRU1 had thirty-seven Spitfires and two Mosquitoes attached. The former were capable of housing at most a camera with a 20” lens in their fuselage, but the latter could carry 40” lenses. This proved serendipitous as the F52 camera, operational in January 1942, carried a 36” lens and produced superb 8.5” x 7” photos from altitudes of 42,000 feet. Photointerpreters were deeply impressed by the sharpness and scale of these prints, which allowed them to see previously undetectable details.2®  Intelligence personnel at CIU’s W (Photogrammetric and Drawing) Section used these pictures to develop photogrammetric plans of more than 500 cities and towns and diagrams of high-value targets such as oil plants, marshaling yards, factories, dams, and canal locks. These schematics proved exceptionally valuable once these targets came under sustained attack and allowed the Air Min- istry and Bomber Command to build good target folders by early 1942.22  Photographs from the F52 camera and 36” lens also revealed the many fire and building decoys the Germans had constructed since mid-1941. Fire decoys imitated burning buildings to draw bombers off their targets, which worked well until photointerpreters in CIU’s Q (Enemy Decoys) Section began pinpointing them in July-August 1941. These eight interpreters reviewed every photo- graph on file to locate decoys. In the process, they determined that the Germans were also using rocket-launched and ground-based decoy marker flares to draw bombers away from flares dropped by Pa