ad access to all damage assessments. Their weekly reports had a standardized structure, including a review of the previous week’s attacks; overall effects on German production; current developments, including the status of oil plants and refineries; and the basis of future policy, including recommendations for the coming week’s raids. Once the committee estab-  Page 260 of 423 61%  During a meeting on 13 May, General Vladimir Grendal, the Red Army’s senior intelligence officer, emphasized that oil was the key target. He said the Germans had enough gasoline to use motor transport for their troops often, “and that the latest information available from POW’s and other sources showed on the whole Soviet front from the Baltic to Roumania there was no shortage whatever of oil. That very large oil dumps have been built up and are kept well supplied.”=4 Grendal’s statement was a criticism and a thinly veiled request for assistance in creating an oil crisis for German ar- mies in the east.  Major General John Deane, head of the American military delegation to the Soviet Union, later noted the early effects of the oil offensive during his tour of the battlefield outside of Vilna after the Russians retook the city in July 1944. “It was apparent,” he said, “that the Russian victories were won by superior mobility. The combined bomber offensive of the Western Allies was taking its toll of German oil, and the German artillery and much of the transport we saw was mostly horse-drawn. The Russians with their preponderance of motorized equipment [and fuel] were thus able to outman- euver the Germans.”=©  In fact, by late May, attacks on Ploesti and German oil plants were already having an impact on German military operations and training. The German army had now joined the Luftwaffe and the Kriegsmarine in a steadily diminishing fuel-quota system. Fuel shortages already hampered the training of German divisions in the west. If air attacks on oil plants and refineries continued, and i