nr military aneratians an which we are recalved 41  Page 118 of 423 30%  asked what needed to be done to expand the scale and destructiveness of city raids even further by 1943. Cherwell told him navigation apparatus (Gee) and blind-bombing aids such as H2S, the first radar useful for navigation and target location, were vital. In addition, improved navigation skills were indispensable. Finally, he said, development of high charge-to-weightratio bombs such as the new 4,000-pound Blockbuster and incendiaries must continue.22  Sir Archibald Sinclair, secretary of state for air, supported these recommendations in a note to Churchill that applauded the increase in accuracy achieved during the Liibeck raid. He pressed him to continue his support of the bombing offensive and pleaded for as few diversions from city bombing as possible. Sinclair concluded with the thought that “we see no reason to doubt that within eight- een months and with American help the degree of destruction which Lord Cherwell suggests is possible can in fact be achieved.”28  These policy makers hoped Harris had hit upon the right approach to destroying cities, and therefore industrial production and civilian morale. It was a hope at first nurtured by damage assessments and, ironically, later dashed by them. They also hoped, mistakenly, that the Americans would join the city-bombing effort. Finally, their belief that the German war economy was fully mobilized led them to conclude that bombing could undermine the German war effort. There was in fact much less slack in the economy than previous scholarly works—and both the British and American postwar bombing surveys—have indicated, so there was actually some basis for hope here.22 However, undermining Germany’s war economy, though it was tightly stretched, ultimately proved beyond Bomber Command’s means. Intelligence personnel also initially missed, then underestimated, the German capacity for dispersing industries, with the notable exception of oil p