rtie produced photographs covering 3,000 square miles of ter-  Page 173 of 423 43%  intercept stated similarly that over 20 percent of all aircraft taking off on 23 December in support of the Ardennes offensive had to turn back as a result of various mechanical problems. Horst Boog has also noted that by spring 1944, 60 percent of German aircraft losses were due to training and other noncombat causes.22  Bombing caused severe damage to aircraft factories and ball-bearing plants, which forced the Germans to disperse. Aircraft manufactured in this dispersed production program were of poor quality and had a number of potentially deadly defects. Consequently, aircraft malfunctioned, often catastrophically, driving up pilot losses in training and combat. As a result of these excessive loss rates, surviving pilots had less confidence in their aircraft and themselves, and lower morale. This chain of events produced a profound crisis for the Luftwaffe. It was one of several brought on by bombing, including catastrophic fuel shortages once the oil offensive began.  The role of intelligence assessments was crucial because they demonstrated that precision attacks could do severe damage. As numerous sources, including Kogler’s testimony, gradually revealed the magnitude of the crisis caused by dispersed aircraft production, intelligence officers confirmed that raids on these plants had dramatic effects and were also effective. More fundamentally, reports such as Kogler’s, which became plentiful by 1944, gave airmen increasing confidence in bombing’s efficacy.  Mature Command and Control for the Air Intelligence Effort  The last major piece of the Anglo-American air intelligence organization to reach maturity was the formation of the JPRC, which tracked the hundreds of requests for photographic cover pouring into ADI(Ph) at the Air Ministry daily by 1944. Although ADI(Ph) had done an admirable job here, its staff was too small. In early 1944, Brigadier General George C. McDonald