to U-boat targets both before and after the combined bomber offensive directive of January 1943, bombers continued to attack these targets even after it became clear that doing so would yield no meaningful results. Harris argued ceaselessly against this wasteful diversion of bombing effort, noting that intelligence from American raids and those of his own command made clear how ineffectual these attacks were. Although Portal and the American bomber chiefs agreed, Churchill and Roosevelt did not, so the effort proceeded. Portal went so far as to raise the issue at the Casablanca conference, where he argued for bombing U-boat pens only “until an assessment of their effects” could be made. Even this made no difference; the raids continued with varying intensity until well after the Normandy invasion.  This fiasco was a clear case of bombing to influence Allied morale, in this case positively, even though intelligence made clear the futility of these raids. We are thus left with the impression that some things were so politically important as to make any insights gleaned from air intelligence, cautionary or otherwise, impossible to heed. Yet the picture is somewhat more complex. Political leaders, including Churchill and Roosevelt, drove the effort forward, but they did so with decidedly bad advice from their intelligence chiefs—not the last time this would happen. From the start of the German building effort, intelligence sources had kept close track of the progress of construction. Yet Bomber Command launched only a few small and ineffectual raids on the U-boat bases during these periods of critical vulnerability, which the air intelligence organization was in a position to point out. Admiral Le Puth, a French officer living in the area during these events, lamented that “some well-placed bombs would have stopped work dead.” If there was any hope of slowing or mitigating the U-boat menace, this was it, but the intelligence and operations personnel involved collectivel