rappes. These were the most vital facilities at marshaling yards. Their destruction reduced an already insufficient repair capability and meant locomotives (also in short supply) serviced in these repair shops were also severely damaged or destroyed. Parts of a destroyed locomotive are in the foreground. Other locomotives, damaged and trapped by the rubble, are in the background. As transportation raids continued, an in- creasingly severe shortage of locomotives meant trains were often unable to move for lack of motive power. (USAFA)  The most impressive product of this iterative learning process was the first BAU report, published in early November, just before the final transportation campaign began. It contained a wealth of insights on reasons for the success of the OVERLORD transportation campaign. These resulted in an air offensive against Germany focusing on marshaling yards (with emphasis on locomotive repair shops), key bridges and viaducts, and inland waterways.  The report demonstrated that marshaling yards formed the most important target set. Raids had damaged repair sheds and the support infrastructure needed to keep trains running, including marshaling facilities, through lines, signaling and telephone equipment, and water and coal supplies. Bridge attacks proved an indispensable companion target set.13 The BAU report also emphasized the utility of SHAEF’s twice-daily target-selection meetings. These venues, in which intelligence officers and RRS civilian experts brought the latest sources to light, helped commanders pick proper targets for upcoming attacks. With few exceptions, this process worked quite well.1% The report demonstrated that marshaling yards formed the most important target set. Raids had damaged repair sheds and the support infrastructure needed to keep trains running, including marshaling facilities, through lines, signaling and telephone equipment, and water and coal supplies. Bridge attacks proved an indispensable companion target s