t year seemed possible, can no longer be achieved.*4  Just as significant was proof that work crews were cannibalizing the wrecked oil plant at Wesseling for parts. Also, ACIU photointerpreters noted “Gelsenkirchen-Nordstern and Ludwigshafen were abandoned.” Even more important was the Soviet winter offensive, which, the CSTC said,  is of great significance to the oil offensive. In the first place it will inevitably increase the enemy’s minimum requirements of POL [petroleum, oil, and lubricants] by a substantial percentage at a time when his production has suffered fresh blows and may make it impossible for the enemy again to build up reserves from his current production for offensive purposes, as in the autumn. In the second place it promises to deprive the enemy of important sources of production. The remaining Polish refineries and the Hungarian oilfields are imminently threatened and, having regard to the speed of the advance, the position of the Silesian Synthetic Plants is beginning to look precarious. In this situation, the immobilization of the remaining large synthetic plants takes on a greater significance than ever before and demands the highest priority. At the same time the target value, on a lower priority, of Benzol Plants has been enhanced.®*  The synthetic oil industry’s output was now only 110,000 tons per month, of which 65,000 tons were gasoline and aviation fuel. In addition, the Red Army was poised to capture Blechhammer North and South. Between continuing oil attacks and the Red Army advance, oil production was being hounded to the point of complete collapse.®2  Another period of good weather the following week led to more devastating attacks by Bomber Command heavies, this time against Briix and Zeitz. The former attack was made with 231 Lancasters dropping 856 tons of bombs, the latter with 328 Lancasters dropping 1,304 tons. Both caused serious damage, with Speer again mentioning that the attack on Briix was a particularly severe setback t