anks, the FW 190, and the Me 262, appeared in smaller numbers and later than would otherwise have been the case.28 Albert Speer addressed this issue som- berly in a speech to the Reich’s Gauleiters on 6 October 1943:  We have lived through times in army equipment when our tanks were inferior to those of the Russians. ... The Luftwaffe in the course of the last two years has quite indubitably suffered from an absolute inferiority, a technical inferiority to the weapons of the enemy. And you can see from this example [production of inferior weapons and their poor effectiveness on the battlefield] what it means to be able to procure the quantity and to be qualitatively inferior. This is quite unsupportable in our situation.22  In other words, even if the Germans could build enough weapons, they would be of little use because they were technologically inferior to those of the Allies and the Soviet Union.  As Speer noted, problems with aircraft proved particularly daunting because German pilot training was already far inferior to that of the Allies; and the cream of the German fighter force was about to face annihilation in the skies over the Reich. Finally, even as production peaked in July 1944, the oil campaign was getting into high gear, robbing the German army of mobility. It also created a cataclysmic aviation fuel shortage for the many new but already outdated aircraft—and their hopelessly outclassed young pilots—as they made their way to “the front” (which, in their case, was dir- ectly overhead). As an American intelligence officer with access to Ultra noted,  The Germans did manage ultimately to restore a very high scale of fighter production. But the setbacks of the summer were so effective as to postpone fighter expansion and cripple their fighter training through the critical period until American fighters themselves won unquestioned air supremacy over every corner of Germany. The very loss of production entailed by the dispersal process itself helped to con