s of ore piling up. This had a catastrophic effect on weapons production and movement of finished weapons, ammunition, fuel, and components.122 Intelligence specialists tracked these developments.  This disastrous turn of events extended to inland waterways. Destruction of the Miihlheim bridge over the Rhine at Cologne in early October rendered the river unusable to barge traffic for three months. Traffic passing through the Munster Locks on the Dortmund-Ems canal declined from 1,430,000 tons per month until September 1944 to 66,000 tons in February 1945, a decrease of 95.4 percent.431  By March, the wagon supply had fallen to one-eighth that of July 1944, deliveries of hard coal to one-fifth, of brown coal to one-half, and of steel production to one-fifth. This led to failures in delivery of components for final weapons assembly and severe disruptions in the movements of weapons, ammunition, and fuel.122 The air intelligence organization clearly recognized these developments.  German records, some of which became available during the war via Ultra intercepts, also underscored the extent of economic and military catastrophes caused by transportation attacks. In fact, they indicated transportation attacks harmed the war effort even more seriously than either wartime damage assessments or early postwar studies indicated. Albert Speer’s wartime correspondence confirmed this.  Speer, who placed the transportation offensive second only to oil attacks in its effects on the German war effort, bombarded Hitler and other Nazi leaders with memos detailing damage inflicted and consequences for war production. In a note to Hitler on 5 October 1944, Speer noted that in September 1943, 19,900 coal wagons moved daily in the Ruhr area. The figures for 3 and 4 October 1944  Page 326 of 423 77%  —— ee eee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee eee ee longer be moved, produced, or stockpiled at factories in sufficient quantities.122  The first month’s attacks reduced circulation of rolling stock in we