cally, much more fuel as they made long and dangerous supply runs. Night bombers and fighter-bombers singled out these convoys, along with fuel depots and fuel trains, in an effort to destroy as much fuel as possible. They also kept most road and rail bridges out of commission, making the Germans’ logistical problems even more severe. This was part of a larger effort to undermine German mobility and combat power with a concerted attack on every facet of oil and fuel production and distribution. The oil and transportation offensives thus involved a concerted attack on Germany’s most vital technology—the oil industry—in the broadest sense of the word. Air intelligence officers understood that everything having to do with oil, from production and transport to storage and distri- bution, had to be attacked.  As a Ministry of Economic Warfare (MEW) report noted, “No subject in the field of Germany’s economic war effort has received greater attention than her oil industry.”2 Moreover, this intelligence effort had from the outset been an interdepartmental responsibility in which several British agencies, joined later by the Americans, met regularly to assess the German oil position. We have already seen how this process developed between 1939 and 1942. In March 1942, the Hankey committee was disbanded and the Hartley committee was placed under the Joint Intelligence Subcommittee (JIC), renamed the Technical Subcommittee on Axis Oil, and given responsibility for tracking the enemy’s oil situation. The Hartley committee’s work was embodied in a series of semiannual JIC reports, the last of which appeared in May 1944. A parallel Enemy Oil Committee was also set up in Washington, D.C., and a combined conference was held in July 1943 to arrive at a combined appreciation of the Axis oil position. With the start of oil attacks in May 1944, the JIC’s Joint Anglo-American Oil Committee and its Joint Oil Targets Committee (JOTC) reviewed each attack based on the success of the previ