form of intelligence was as dramatic as ULTRA in terms of shaping strategy, resulting in saving tens of thousands of lives. I think, even if there had been no ULTRA, that with aerial reconnaissance, primarily, plus the work of scholars and economists, we should have identified target systems in Germany. It may have taken us longer—but in the end we would have des- troyed the German economy.  Indeed, much of this work has focused on the extent to which these other sources allowed the air intelligence organization to develop a deep knowledge of Germany’s oil, transportation, and other assets almost entirely independent of Ultra intercepts. The latter became central once the air campaigns began, but even then, Ultra was always most effective when used in coordination with other sources. Wing Commander John Stubbington recently noted that even Ultra on occasion misled Allied intelligence specialists when used as a sole source because it was either incomplete or, as Horst Boog has noted, sometimes sugarcoated events to appease senior Nazi leaders.®2 In fact, Stubbington further emphasized that both targeting and damage assessment “called for intelligence from many sources,”® given its complexity and Ultra’s tendency, particularly before the oil offensive, to be of limited utility. “The contribution of ULTRA for target planning,” he said, “was usually indirect and, by itself, rarely sufficient for targeting purposes . . . there was at least for the first few years of the war almost no relevant ULTRA evidence.”®* We must therefore view Ultra as an important but by no means singularly instrumental source for the air intelligence effort.  Allied cryptographers also decrypted the Japanese naval attaché’s reports saying attacks on Ploesti and synthetic oil plants were taking a serious toll. “Allied attacks against German oil resources,” he noted, “have caused considerable damage and the present production of fuel has fallen to about 50%.”22 In August, he quoted the German liai