ive until at least early January; Pélitz out of action with damage to the main boiler house and returning to production within two weeks; and Blechhammer North out of action for several weeks. A CSTC report concluded, “Having regard to the severely damaged condition of some of the inactive plants, therefore, synthetic oil production as a whole is in a more fragile condition than ever before. ... The overall situation is now again comparable to the position achieved in mid-September, with the significant difference that its susceptibility to a knockout blow has greatly increased.”2  The report closed with a revised production estimate for December: 409,000 tons (30 percent of preattack capacity). If the six major Bergius plants still in operation were knocked out, “the enemy will be confronted with the most acute POL supply situation which he has yet had to face and this will be further aggravated should large scale offensive action be resumed by the Russians on the Eastern Front.”2°2 The Fiihrer himself contributed to this threat of operational catastrophe by ordering the Ardennes offensive, which consumed half of the fuel produced in November and December and thus made it impossible for German armies in the east to rebuild depleted stocks.2®2 The Germans launched their attack with only one or two fuel increments for each heavy division even with this huge di- version of fuel from the east. And a mere eight oil plants were all that stood between the last vestiges of German battlefield mobility and cataclysmic fuel shortages. They were not long in coming.  The Ardennes offensive, although it shook Allied leaders, was calamitous for the Germans, who had a fraction of the fuel available just ten months earlier. The plan was to capture American fuel dumps to continue their offensive. They did not capture any. Because units had so little fuel and had to advance over muddy or snow-covered terrain, which drove up gasoline use alarmingly, they could hardly maneuver. We have