000,000—and probably only 500,000—by March 1945. Bomber Command's elite groups had again knocked out the Dortmund-Ems canal. In the meantime, the 11th Panzer Division started a move from Trier to Cologne, a distance of less than 100 miles, on 13 February. Because of heavy attacks on rail centers in both cities, it did not begin arriving until 27 February and was then committed piecemeal. Transportation attacks also contributed to serious ammunition shortages. And after nearly a year of concerted effort, heavy bombers destroyed the huge railroad viaduct at Bielefeld, over which much of the Ruhr’s coal and steel passed. The Germans built a single-track bypass, but the Allies kept it out of action.114  As the CSTC determined damage to transportation networks, German POWs added their insights. They confirmed the effectiveness of these raids and related numerous instances of long delays in rail movement. One said his unit’s move from the Sudetenland to Cologne (normally a two-day trip) took ten days. Another said trains from Heidelberg to Cologne (a distance of 135 miles) took ten to twelve days. A third said he was supposed to leave Kassel for Cologne (115 miles) on 5 January but left 19 January. His journey then took ten days. It would have been much quicker to march!  As Germany’s transportation system collapsed, so did its remaining oil production. By March, all Bergius plants were out of action. Only the Ruhland and Harburg refineries were still operational. Benzol production was on the wane, with two-thirds of all benzol plants captured or out of action.11 Yet the Germans would not admit defeat. Repairs at Zeitz, assessed as destroyed, had the plant producing at 25 percent of capacity. It went back on the target list. This tenacity prompted the CSTC to say, “It was universally agreed that we should pursue oil to the last drop.”42 Heavy attacks the  Page 320 of 423 75%  HPtoVULILTIE LOW COLLALICU Le aAlly (UY PELCe it VEAL. fh OFLAAEL na LOVPOrL, Callills LOL do IEL