core and his determination to keep heavy bombers pointed at what he believed to be more lucrative targets, he knew he could not change their minds. Nevertheless, he did not put any sustained energy into supervising the effort. As Denis Richards noted, “He had no intention, if he could help it, of sacrificing offensive bombing (including support to the armies) to any demand for heavier defensive bombing against an unpleasant, but militarily ineffectual, form of attack on Britain.”58 Nevertheless, if the latter part of cRossBow was aless happy chapter in the use of air intelligence, the first chapter was much more impressive. At the same time, the value of air intelligence to the transportation campaign was becoming even clearer.  Ground-Survey Teams: Assessing Bombing Effectiveness  By September 1944, there was no doubt about the decisive nature of the transportation offensive, and ground-survey teams soon set to work drawing lessons from it. The ex post facto damage reports they produced drove an iterative learning process put to good use during the 1944-1945 transportation campaign against the Reich.  These teams had four goals: to ascertain the accuracy of analyses produced during the campaign, to determine how operations could have been improved, to discover how well munitions worked against different targets, and to apply lessons learned to future attacks. There were four teams involved: the Bombing Analysis Unit (BAU), directed by the AEAF (later SHAEF) but staffed primarily by British intelligence specialists; the USAAF Air Evaluation Board (AEB—predecessor of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey); a French Operational Research Section unit; and small USAAF teams surveying bomb damage from missions flown by aircraft assigned to their commands. The latter went in first and fed reports to their owning commands, the BAU, and the AEB.  One of these teams was a Third Bombardment Division unit led by Major Mark Brown, the division’s chief photointerpreter. The