erican bombing operated during World War II, and within which its air intelligence functions would mature, was clearly well advanced during the early interwar period, not only in doctrine documents and lesson plans, but even more importantly in the cognitive processes of American airmen. One of the most influential in the field of aerial photography was George W. Goddard.44  Goddard’s Contributions  Goddard got his start in the Great War. As one of Mitchell’s protégés, he understood aerial photography might well become indispensable to air warfare. After graduating from the Aerial Photography School at Cornell University in March 1918, Goddard instructed there while awaiting assignment overseas. In this position, he became familiar with James Bagley’s three-lens camera that used film rather than plates, had a greater field of coverage than any other camera then in service, and accommodated lenses with different focal lengths. With a viewfinder designed by Goddard, it also provided 60 percent overlap of photos, allowing stereoscopic viewing. Along with the K-1 film camera, which joined it near the end of the war, Bagley’s camera was the mainstay of American aerial photography during the early interwar period. The K-1 carried film 9 inches wide with a 75-picture capacity. Thanks to Dr. Kenneth Mees of Eastman Kodak, with whom Goddard developed a close association over the next two decades, this film was the best in the world, providing high-resolution prints ideally suited for photointerpretation.4®  As the war drew to a close, Mitchell assigned Goddard to McCook Field in Dayton, Ohio, where he became director of aerial photographic research and development. In October 1920, he became photographic officer, training and operations, Air Service Headquarters, Washington, D.C., where he pushed aerial photography forward as fast as a peacetime military and a small budget allowed.4®  One of Goddard’s key priorities, which did not come to fruition until the Cold War, was a d