nd techniques. Whatever training they received was on the job. Photointerpretation skills learned at the schools helped officers assess bombing results and work effectively with photographic officers.  Emerging Air Intelligence Organizations  In 1918, the French Army General Headquarters of the Armies of the North and Northeast published Study and Exploitation of Aerial Photographs, illustrating advances in photointerpretation and, by extension, damage assessment. This foundational document, translated into English, influenced British and American BDA development. One of its crucial conclusions said, “the study of aerial photographs must be entrusted to specialists, who should be provided with all possible means of verification.”“* This reference was not just to photointerpreters in general, but rather a recognition that specific subspecialties of photointerpreters had emerged by 1918, several of which focused entirely, in conjunction with air intelligence officers, on assessing bombing effects and effectiveness.4*  An essential element of instruction was change detection, which involved examining each photo in conjunction with previous ones showing the same area or facility (known as comparative coverage) to determine what the enemy had done there recently. This became enormously important during bombing campaigns in World War II, as photointerpreters and intelligence officers looked for signs of rebuilding and reconstitution at industrial facilities, rail centers, and oil plants.4®  The British were the first to assign both intelligence and photographic officers to bomb squadrons and higher headquarters. No. 55 Squadron had them by November 1917. The branch intelligence officer was responsible for providing postraid results and assessments to higher echelons by 7:00 a.m. the following morning.*2 While the photographic officer had cameras and photographic plates removed from aircraft and postraid photographs developed, the intelligence officer and the group operati