h the critical period until American fighters themselves won unquestioned air supremacy over every corner of Germany. The very loss of production entailed by the dispersal process itself helped to contribute to the single-engine fighter shortage of which the ensuing months were to provide incontrovertible evidence.42  When viewed in this light, the opportunity costs to German front-line strength were startlingly high. The production cap imposed in the latter half of 1943 resulted in the production of 35 percent fewer tanks, 31 percent fewer aircraft, and 42 percent fewer lorries at a time when having them really mattered, given Germany’s still viable, if unenviable, operational, fuel, and manpower positions. Without this cap, 30,000 additional tanks and 55,000 additional aircraft could have rolled off the production lines.44  The diversion of productive capacity, weapons, and manpower to defend the Reich against heavy bombers also proved costly. By November 1942, Ultra intercepts confirmed that German aircraft were already leaving the Eastern Front for France to counter bomber operations against U-boat bases. Although these raids proved ineffective, Luftwaffe assets sent to counter them never returned to Russia; they simply folded into the mushrooming Reich air-defense effort. Ultra also confirmed details of the vital conference in January 1943, during which Adolf Galland presided over planning for the activation of the huge fighter arm that would comprise Luftflotte Reich. These intercepts confirmed the growing flood of requirements for aircraft to return to the Reich. In summer 1942, the Luftwaffe had concentrated 60 percent of its air strength in the east. By July 1943, only 36 percent remained facing the Russians, and an even more pathetic 21 percent of the fighter force. By January 1944, only 17 percent of the fighter force was still in the east. Both day and night fighters, and a large number of Ju-88 bombers reequipped with air-intercept radar for night opera