ued that bridges were poor targets. Furthermore, as late as April 1944, in a paper prepared by the Enemy Objectives Unit of the United States Economic Warfare Department identifying twenty-six bridges as potential targets, neither Tedder nor Zuckerman provided support.  Spaatz and his USSTAF/EOU team brought some equally flawed arguments to the table. As we have seen, they tended to pick and choose what they wanted from Zuckerman’s work and use it to their advantage. In addition, their assessment that only 8 percent of rail traffic in France, Belgium, and western Germany was related to the movement of military goods and personnel, and that the total would increase only slightly after the invasion, was clearly the product of politicking, bad intelligence assessments, or both. So, too, was their assertion that transportation attacks in Italy had few sig- nificant similarities to any future transportation effort in support of Normandy. Certainly there were differences, but this sweeping EOU statement proved inaccurate.2®  Even more disconcerting were EOU’s basic conclusions about Zuckerman’s plan. They saw several weaknesses. First, they said the targeted rail systems had “vast excess capacity” and could therefore move military traffic even across a single open line. This analysis was flawed. Had EOU analysts checked with the RRS, they would have discovered there was no excess rail capacity. There was ample rolling stock, but few locomotives and skilled workers—two of Zuckerman’s key target sets. Also, to assert that military movement could continue across a single line was meaningless because it involved huge transportation bottlenecks, delays, and disorganization. In this case, they also missed the fact that marshaling yards were the central nervous systems for rail networks, and that severe damage to them would produce synergistic effects, including a huge strain on any other open lines.*2 The EOU did some outstanding work, but this was not its finest hour.  Finally