ransit through the distribution system.”2° This was crucial. Although the Germans still had fuel in their distribution pipeline, it was so obstructed by raids on rail centers and bridges that most units received only enough fuel to conduct a static defense. Accordingly, the CSTC recommended attacks on fuel depots take precedence. The last vestiges of German tactical mobility disap- peared when air attacks destroyed the depots.*+  Support of the Red Army: The Road to Dresden  The key now was to give all possible support to the Red Army. Putting the last four Bergius plants out of action would, along with the imminent Russian capture of Upper Silesia’s synthetic oil plants and coalfields, collapse German oil production. Airmen also went after marshaling yards through which German divisions moving to the east travelled, including those at Leipzig, Chemnitz, and Dresden.  Ultra intelligence confirmed that 6th SS Panzer Army, composed of four (later six) SS Panzer divisions, was moving from west to east with routing along the Berlin-Magdeburg-Leipzig-Dresden- Cottbus railways. Its orders were to stop the Red Army’s advance into Upper Silesia and toward the Oder. The Russians were calling for raids on marshaling yards along 6th Panzer’s route of travel. Ultra provided detailed information on assembly areas near Cologne and Coblenz, and the rate of movement, which the Germans projected at twenty-five to thirty trains per day. The use of heavy bombers  at thie nnint ume ta attanls marchalinea wavde uthara th CC Danvar ume antrainine and vail nantare uthara ite unite uraiuld teanocit av datenin Tha Dirccian affanoitma had nentan on ounnacofiil that Aliad  Page 315 of 423 ThA%  Spaatz’s and Portal’s preference for oil, and Harris’s focus on cities. These late-war city raids also put the finishing touches on natural gas mains, electrical grids, and other key infrastructural assets laboriously rebuilt after the first battle of the Ruhr. The three-way argument senior airmen enga