yed similar symptoms. The benzol plants were an afterthought. I am quite certain that there are dozens more benzol plants of which we are unaware and when and if we knock them all out I am equally certain we shall eventually be told by MEW that German M.T. [motor transport] is continuing to run sufficiently for their purpose on producer gas, steam, indus- trial alcohol, etc., etc. However we should be content if we can deprive them of adequate supplies of aviation fuel. That in itself will take enough doing.4==  There was little truth in what Harris said. Intelligence specialists had long since located virtually every benzol target in Germany. However, benzol was a lower-priority target waiting its turn until the large plants were out of action. Considering the tone of Harris's letter, he evidently overlooked or dismissed intelligence pointing to oil as a, and perhaps the, most vital target set in the Reich. Portal once again sought Bufton’s advice as he contemplated his response.  Bufton began by saying Harris was trying “to throw doubt... upon the soundness of the oil plan.”14° He also said the major proportion of oil production came from a limited number of plants. Eleven synthetic plants in central Germany provided 70 percent of Germany’s fuel. Their destruction would speed the end of the war in Europe. But it was Harris’s final paragraph that gave Bufton, as it had Portal, the greatest cause for concern. The fact that earlier efforts against selective target systems had not always been successful had nothing to do with poor intelligence, but rather with the Allies’ earlier inability to carry out bombing with the concentration necessary to outpace the enemy’s efforts to rebuild and disperse.+*2 That was no longer the case, as the oil offensive illustrated.15%  Portal’s 22 December reply to Harris, again essentially a copy of Bufton’s draft, assured him his concerns about Bomber Command “going it alone” in the oil offensive were completely groundless— the USAAF w