An even more effective series of raids on Calais, between 17 September and 10 October, which delivered 196 tons of bombs, sank nearly 100 barges and damaged many more. Photographs showed barges there packed gunwale to gunwale, making easy work for bomber crews. Strike photos taken as raids were ongoing also and proved very useful in determining bombing effects.22 Together with poststrike photographs taken by PDU Spitfires, they confirmed that by 21 September, British bombers had already sunk over 10 percent of barges assembled for the invasion.#3 Attacks continued in force until April 1941, by which time nearly all remaining barges had moved to ports in Belgium and the Netherlands. By February 1941, there were 650 barges in Antwerp and another 650 in Rotterdam. Further raids, though not as frequent, forced a further dispersal up the canals and rivers of the Low Countries, where the Germans moored and camouflaged small groups of barges. During the campaign, PIU interpreters also located several shipyards in Holland where the Germans were modifying barges to serve as tank landing craft and other heavy-equipment carriers. These also received attention from British bombers.24  The campaign against invasion barges was one of the few operational bright spots during fall 1940. Accurate bombing and poor German security measures, such as packing barges together, led to serious losses of landing craft and forced the Germans to disperse the remainder. The PIU interpretation report covering these developments was thus accurate and also forwardlooking in its recogni- tion that, should the German drive in the east succeed, Bomber Command might have to wage a second barge campaign in 1942.  The PRUs and CIU: Rapid Evolution  As the effort against barges continued, so did bombing of aircraft and oil targets. As the former received progressively less effort with the Battle of Britain winding down, the latter again took center stage.22 Although this first oil offensive will receive a