he Wehrmacht of its ability to concentrate, maneuver, or engage in sustained periods of high-intensity combat. Air intelligence was at the center of this momentous victory and would be once again during the impending transportation offensive against the Reich itself.  ELEVEN  ENDGAME, NOVEMBER 1944-MAY 1945  Air Intelligence, the Final Destruction of Oil and Transportation Assets, and the Defeat of the Wehrmacht  There are two basic principles governing the aims of the war. One principle, according to Clausewitz, has as the aim of the war the direct destruction of the fighting forces of the opponent. Opposed to this is the Anglo-Saxon principle that the fighting forces of the opponent must be eliminated indirectly by the destruction of the opponent’s industry . . . this [second] principle will be the deciding factor for us even after the destruction of our opponents in the east.  —Dr. Kurt Tank, President, Focke Wulf Aircraft Company, to Generalfeldmarschall Erhard Milch, July 1942  It was universally agreed that we should pursue oil to the last drop.  —Combined Strategic Targets Committee, 25 March 1945 Meeting Notes  We are now hardly able to fill our cigarette lighters. —Joseph Goebbels, Diary, 2 March 1945  The Final Transportation Offensive  The air campaign against the Third Reich's railroads and inland waterways was the last and largest of the heavy-bomber offensives. Its impact on the German war industry and the Wehrmacht was catastrophic. Alfred Mierzejewski characterized attacks on railroads and inland waterways as decisive if flawed—decisive because it worked, flawed because it got into high gear too late as the result of poor Combined Strategic Targets Committee (CSTC) targeting recommendations and insufficient clarity about the effects of bombing transportation assets.+  The United States Strategic Bombing Survey agreed, saying, “The attack on transportation was the decisive blow that completely disorganized the German economy. It reduced war production