hat these impressive damage figures masked several serious damage-assessment deficiencies. First was incomplete knowledge of what exactly British bombs were destroying. For instance, although reports noted over 250 factories destroyed or damaged during this raid, intelligence personnel only knew what was being produced in 50 of them.* It was also difficult to determine what photointerpreters called “invisible damage”: the machine tools and other equipment destroyed inside factory buildings, but not visible because they were covered by largely intact roofs. Even more vexing was an inability to come up with quantitative and qualitative measures for determining the degree to which each raid damaged the German war effort. Convincing meas- ures of merit were elusive. Consequently, assessments focused increasingly on morale, the rate of repair work, the costs of refugee services, and other aspects of bomb damage.*4  Air Intelligence for City Raids: Building the Process  By July 1942, concerns about the lack of clarity in damage assessments drove several key developments. The first was a meeting between A.I.3(e), the Air Ministry office responsible for aggregate damage assessments, the CIU commander, and Bomber Command’s chief intelligence officer, in which they discussed establishing a formula for estimating invisible damage. Bomber Command’s intelligence chief deemed the meeting a failure and called for the formation of a committee of photointerpreters, scientists, statisticians, and civil engineers to devise a workable formula. The solutions arrived at, addressed in the following chapter, brought greater precision to measuring the physical effects of bombing and claimed to do so for morale effects; but in the final analysis, they proved inadequate.*= Central to these efforts was the creation in November 1941 of a new office at the Ministry of Home Security, RE8. Along with MEW and the CIU, RE8 played a leading role in the damage- assessment process. It proved capable of