andy from German reinforcements and resupply, then against Germany’s oil industry, and finally against Germany’s railroads and inland waterways. Air intelligence officers played a crucial role by giving airmen accurate insights into these campaigns’ effectiveness. The first campaign played a vital role in the collapse of German resistance in Normandy. The second had disastrous effects on German fuel production and thus on the Wehrmacht’s combat power from July 1944 to VE Day. The third undermined Germany’s war economy. The aggregate results were cataclysmic for Germany’s war effort. Approaching these campaigns from an air intelligence and operational perspective, rather than a purely operational one, highlights their significance.  On a less positive note, there were also instances in which political and military leaders ignored available intelligence, refused to guide their actions according to the insights it provided, or twisted it to suit their own arguments about strategy and operations. The consequences of this behavior ranged from strains within the Anglo-American camp to the unnecessary commitment and loss of aircrews over Nazi-occupied Europe. Clearly, intelligence had its limits. It was an inherently political commodity working within a huge and often adversarial command structure and the world’s first intelligence interagency structure.  Nor were heavy bombers and their intelligence support war winners in any sense of the term. The tide had turned against Nazi Germany long before bombing reached the level of intensity, in 1943-1945, required to do grievous and lasting harm to the Reich’s war effort. Nonetheless, once the effort got into high gear, an air armada of over 4,000 heavy bombers damaged Germany’s war economy so severely and hampered Wehrmacht operations in the field so extensively that instead of meeting a well-supplied and mobile opponent on the Reich’s frontiers, Allied and Soviet armies met opponents with cataclysmic fuel and ammunition short