espite early efforts to establish air intelligence capabilities, they had not yet become an integral part of the targeting-operations—assessment feedback loop, as they would during World War II.  Sykes, who concurred with Tiverton, pushed Trenchard to attack nitrogenfixation plants. Trenchard, however, ignored Sykes and attacked operational targets in support of ground forces. These included marshaling yards to slow the German advance during their spring and summer 1918 offensives, and aerodromes to destroy German fighters or keep them occupied in air defense duties—  Page 25 of 423 8%  late in the war, they marked the point of departure for damage assessment in World War II. They received their first tests during the British IF strategic and reprisal campaign and American-led bomb- ing in the St. Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne offensives.  The British IF bombing campaign in summer and autumn 1918 was driven by a contest between the IF’s commander, Major General Trenchard, and the new chief of the air staff, Major General Frederick Sykes. These two men had very different ideas about the potential and proper employment of bombers. Sykes took his lead from one of his staff officers, Major Lord Tiverton (Second Earl of Halsbury), a Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve officer who cross-commissioned to the RAF upon its establishment in April 1918. He served under Brigadier General P. R. C. Groves, head of the Directorate of Flying Operations (DFO) at the Air Ministry. Tiverton impressed on Sykes the vulnerability of Germany’s chemical industry to intensive bombing. He believed a concerted attack on nitrogen-fixation plants would reduce production of explosives and propellants by perhaps 80 percent, leaving the Germans no option but to surrender as ammunition ran out. Tiverton’s ideas were remarkable not just because they seized, correctly, on the single greatest vulnerability in the German war machine, but also because they represented the first effort to view bombing in terms of ta