de- velopment to do these things. Nonetheless, they were evolving rapidly, and as the bombing effort intensified, these capabilities approached maturity.  One of the most glaring deficiencies was the initial contingent of reconnaissance aircraft. The only one with the combat radius to reach Germany—and only its western territories—was the Blenheim bomber, flying at between 10,000 and 20,000 feet and unable to survive fighter attacks. Of the first eighty-nine Blenheim missions over Germany in 1939, sixteen were shot down, and half of the others failed to produce useful photographs as a result of evasive action and equipment malfunctions. The other available aircraft was the Lysander, a highly vulnerable tactical reconnaissance platform. From September 1939 to 15 January 1940, the RAF relied on the Blenheim and Lysander to photograph 2,500 square miles of German territory with the loss of forty aircraft, while the French photographed 6,000 square miles at a cost of sixty aircraft. In contrast, Cotton’s new detachment, now at RAF Heston, photographed 5,000 square miles without the loss of a single aircraft—and in fact with only a single aircraft assigned. “Shorty” Longbottom had helped Cotton modify this first Spitfire by removing its guns, radio, and other unnecessary equipment and fitting it with extra gas tanks. This yielded a range of 1,500 miles, enough to get to Berlin and back.4  Page 84 of 423 22%  bombing campaign therefore consisted largely of dropping propaganda leaflets over western Germany at night and conducting maritime patrols in the North Sea. Nonetheless, two raids by Wellington bombers on 14 and 18 December 1939 sought to attack the German fleet at the Heligoland Bight. Flying unescorted in daylight, they were attacked by fighters and lost over half their numbers. With this disaster, whatever plans Ludlow-Hewitt might have had for a daytime air offensive against the Ruhr were dashed by government and Air Ministry directives as well as a gradually inc