mb and fuse combinations for various targets including factory buildings, oil plants, and water and gas mains, among others. One of the key conclusions in the memo accompanying these tables was that incendiaries caused much more damage in urban areas, especially if dropped in conjunction with large high-explosive bombs. The idea was to smash buildings and gas mains, which were then more susceptible to ignition. The memo closed with a reminder that “incen- diary bombs should therefore be used in large quantities when attacking sea ports, inland water ports, and industrial towns.” These grim calculations provided the basis for city raids 2  By January 1942, the Bomb Subcommittee of the Bombing Committee had a great deal of empirical evidence, gleaned from hundreds of bomb-damage and munitions-effectiveness reports and bombing tests in the British Isles, upon which to base decisions regarding bomb production. Among the most significant was the great utility of the 4,000-pound high-capacity bomb against oil refineries. Its immense blast and cratering effects had the capacity to destroy aboveground steam pipes and underground electric and gas utility conduits, which were vital for the effective functioning of oil plants and refineries. Equally important was the recognition that 500-pound mediumcapacity bombs could be quite effective against oil tanks as well as marshaling yards. In fact, they were  noanrlty a0 affactitra ac 1 NAAN _naimd hambhe and hamhare cauld carry turica ae mand malbina tham tha claar chaica far attacle an thaca tarcaate Drafacenr Rarnal alen racnmmandad that EAN _naund  Page 127 of 423 33%  E <  this were intricate but also inaccurate for five reasons. lhe first was the Germans lavisn use of forced laborers for rubble clearance and other menial and dangerous tasks. I here 1s no indication that intelligence specialists were aware of this significant problem with the accuracy of their formula. Second was the dispersal of factories, which began in late