ing on 8 November 1943 in which all available intelligence received careful consideration, especially the “ski ramp” launch sites for the V-1, which were obviously intended to fire rockets. The first nineteen (later twenty-six) launchers located had trajectories aiming directly for London. Intelligence analyses provided a worstcase scenario of 2,000 V-1 launches a day, when in fact the total proved closer to 100 as a result of the first phase of crossBow, the heavy-bomber effort against V-1s. Nonetheless, the threat appeared dire, and in late December, Bomber Command and the USAAF—especially the latter, given its “daylight precision” capabilities—went after the sites. This preponderance of American bombers in what Spaatz and Arnold thought should be a British-led effort created some tense moments and further convinced Spaatz his bombers must not come under Leigh-Mallory’s command.124  Initial raids proved highly effective: the heavies flattened virtually every large launch complex, forcing the Germans to concentrate repair efforts on parts of the sites vital to launch operations. When new sites appeared on the Cherbourg Peninsula in spring 1944, they received the same treatment. As Babington-Smith noted, early raids proved effective because they put a cap on the maximum number of daily launches—down from the projected 2,000 to the actual 100. But the Germans changed their procedures, building much smaller and simpler launch sites with heavy camouflage. They also left sites unfinished and brought in the last, vital, components only when about to launch rockets. These countermeasures made bombing difficult because the Allies could not keep pace with the time-sensitive targeting cycle. From this point forward, despite a growing diversion of heavy bombers to crossBow targets, both effects and effectiveness were limited.152 As Lieutenant Colonel Haines, a USAAF Ultra analyst, noted,  It must be candidly recorded that air power had proved almost wholly ineffectual against