economy.  There is one important caution in order as we consider these developments. Too much has been made of the differences between Tedder’s position and that taken by CSTC members, who held that  Ail shauld nantinun ta hau nein Taddae nauas annenanhad tha nenhlam feam an nithas av navenantion Ne ha antad in hie denft teanonactatinn aamanaion alan tha ail affanoivn ume undarmininea  Page 297 of 423 70%  SEOUEL Was dl WOLK OLl ad LIEW Pidll LALECLIIIE LIE KEM LdlliUdts All Calldis. GUCKE I idll ULOUSIIL LU DEdt ELUULU"SULVEY LEVUr ts dll CAVLULEU taAliWay LECUIUS MOOCIIIE LILO Ills DULIUINNIE AlldlYols ULL offices. He used these sources to argue for an all-out assault on Germany’s transportation networks. Released under Tedder’s signature on 25 October, the plan called for the complementary employ- ment of air and ground forces. Tedder said:  In my opinion our primary Air objective should be the enemy’s communications. Road, water, and rail are interdependent and complementary, and our Air operations should play on that fact. The present Oil Plan is the key to movement by road and air, and, moreover, directly affects operations in the battle area. .. . Itis abundantly clear from French and German railway records (the latter kept with typical tidy thoroughness) that:  a. It was the heavy attacks on rail centres and marshalling yards which were the main factor in paralyzing the rail system in northern France, and b. The effect of these attacks was far more rapid and final than had ever been anticipated.®  This confident statement rested on the firm foundation provided by damage reports. It also came from Tedder’s recognition that transportation and oil attacks had been complementary in France and would be so again.  Tedder emphasized, however, that airmen must not equate earlier efforts with the impending attack on German transportation assets. “In Germany,” he noted, “all loss of traffic is a dead loss to the war effort.”2 He further noted that manpower and materia