nnaissance of Channel ports. Consequently, intelligence available for early oil raids included that used in World War I: pilots’ debriefings, agent reports, and inputs from neutral parties. An overly optimistic view thus prevailed, with MEW reports often listing virtually every target as having been hit. In one such report, of the twenty-two oil targets attacked by at least one bomber during the period 29 July to 11 August, including fourteen crude oil refineries and eight oil il plants, three were assessed as having been “heavily damaged and probably out of action,” thirteen as “heavily hit but probably st still  a ee a 7: eS | a SO 2: a a a SC eS oe Se eee ae rs L  Page 104 of 423 27%  Bell continued his correspondence with Air Vice Marshal Norman Bottomley at the Air Staff, providing suggestions on the best tactics and bombs for oil targets and comparative insights on Belgian and Dutch oil infrastructures. Bottomley and his counterparts at the Air Ministry also learned a good bit from an article in a French professional journal analyzing the types of bombs Germans had used on Polish oil refineries and depots. They used a mix of 550-pound high-explosive bombs and small incendiary munitions, the first to collapse oil tanks and the second to ignite spilled oil. By No- vember 1939, Bottomley was referring to “our oil plan” in an internal Bomber Command minute. The first oil raids were not long in coming.  Executing and Assessing the First Oil Offensive  The focus of this first oil offensive, which ran intermittently from May 1940 to March 1941, was ostensibly on oil, but the excessive dispersion of effort on many target sets, including aircraft, aluminum, chemicals and explosives, electric power, iron and steel, and shipbuilding, ensured that Bomber Command's limited assets produced meager results. The profound discouragement caused by these results and the requirement to attack barges in the Channel ports led to the gradual abandonment of this first effort. However,