ing and subsequent resettlement, and the loss of man-hours as a result of diversion of labor from production to relief and repair efforts. The end result of this assessment was production loss in millions of man-hours and by individual worker. Thus, for a 13-14 July raid on Aachen, RE8 analysts placed industrial loss at 34 million man-hours or 128 days’ lost labor for every worker in the city. Loss of man-hours in fact became the sine qua non of RE8 damage assessments in 1943.42  Page 146 of 423 37%  Poststrike image of the 11-12 June 1943 Bomber Command raid on Diisseldorf. Burnt-out, roofless buildings have a distinctive hollow appearance. This raid destroyed 130 acres—nearly 75 percent of the city. Some forty-two plants  producing war matériel suffered complete stoppages and another thirty-five partial stoppages. Human costs included 1,292 killed and 140,000 homeless. Such raids during the battle of the Ruhr caused severe damage and seriously hampered, but did not collapse, the German war economy. (NARA)  The problems with these figures, however, were serious, for reasons previously discussed, most prominently the extensive use of forced laborers and the dispersal of factories. The problem lay in the fact that relocation represented a loss of productive labor and time, but only once, while the RE8 analyses assumed that lost man-years accumulated every time a bombing raid destroyed houses and factories. The failure to detect large-scale movements of skilled German workers and their families to dispersed factories and the importation of forced labor into the cities to carry on repair work and production at remaining plants was a significant oversight. Thus, despite all the work RE8 put into them, figures on lost man-hours remained imprecise.  Another problem stemmed from the fact that Bomber Command reports were concerned with lost man-hours of labor but also placed heavy emphasis on the destruction of cities and buildings. One such study, produced in November 1943