ed that Moosbierbaum, an oil refinery and processing plant near Vienna, was the same one dismantled at Port Jerome in France for relocation to the Caucasus. It refined crude oil and produced a high-grade distillate to boost aviation fuel octane. Estimated output at Moosbierbaum was 150,000 tons per year. Within days, 15th Air Force bombers attacked. This was one of several raids made during rare good weather in which, a CSTC re- port noted, “Good progress has therefore been made towards the precipitation of a fresh crisis in the German oil position.”2°  Progress was actually better than the CSTC thought possible, based on the start of Bomber Command night precision raids. The latest attacks drove output below 100,000 tons per month, almost all of which now came from six plants: Scholven, Zeitz, Bohlen, Liitzkendorf, Magdeburg, and Ruhland. Even allowing for maximum recovery of damaged plants and assuming no more attacks, January production would not exceed 210,000 tons. Reconnaissance cover of 24 December showed Briix out of action for a short period; Leuna out of action with major damage to two of the three injector houses and other sections of the plant, rendering it inactive until at least early January; Politz out of action with damage to the main boiler house and returning to production within two weeks; and Blechhammer North out of action for several weeks. A CSTC report concluded, “Having regard to the severely damaged condition of some of the inactive plants, therefore, synthetic oil production as a whole is in a more fragile condition than ever before. ... The overall situation is now again comparable to the position achieved in mid-September, with the significant difference that its susceptibility to a knockout blow has greatly increased.”2  The report closed with a revised production estimate for December: 409,000 tons (30 percent of preattack capacity). If the six major Bergius plants still in operation were knocked out, “the enemy will be confronted wit