nomic warfare against Germany. Its small staff surveyed the scope of economic intelligence still required and realized a larger and permanent body, with its director a member of the cabinet, would be required to provide economic intelligence to service ministries for war planning. The Committee of Imperial Defence agreed, resulting in the formation of MEW, initially composed of 78 analysts, in September 1939.26  The practical effects of these decisions from an air intelligence perspective were a requirement for the Air Ministry to collect most of its air targets intelligence solo, with only occasional support from MEW once it became active in September 1939, and a consequent delay in collecting the economic intelligence Bomber Command required for campaign and mission planning. Official historian F. H. Hinsley said, “In the field of economic intelligence inter-departmental cooperation declined, rather than improved, on the outbreak of war.”2! It took another six months before the COS, MEW, the Air Ministry, and Bomber Command recognized that bombing had to have a more prominent place in grand strategy and that closer cooperation and additional manpower were needed to make this happen.  Gathering Air Intelligence: Lessons and Data  The Air Staff Directorate of Intelligence therefore assumed a leading role as supplier of air intelligence to Bomber Command, a role it kept, albeit with increasing MEW input, for the entire war. The first step in this process was to gather useful historical evidence as Bomber Command developed campaign plans. This came from three places: examination of bombing in the Spanish civil war, experimental evidence on the effects of bombs from peacetime tests, and a careful study of the German war economy. In the first case, there was too little evidence to provide precedents for future bombing campaigns. The JIC conducted a detailed study of the air war over Spain, concluding that the Iberian Peninsula lacked the industrial base to merit serious