d indeed a fusion of such reporting into common intelligence products. Battle maps, produced at corps and army headquarters, were thus compilations of the effects of artillery and air attacks on enemy units and emplacements. To use a term that came into use during World War II, the destruction maps were the artillery version of “bomb plots” used by photointerpreters to locate bomb strikes while assessing damage.1®  The development of bombing doctrine and practice in 1914-1918 therefore represented a nonlinear evolution. Initially, bombers evolved as longrange, highly mobile artillery, a function they have  Page 14 of 423 5%  of friendly guns, and it was here that the damage-assessment process had its birth.12  The idea of bombers as extensions of artillery exerted a major influence on air operations from 1917 to the end of the war. Even with renewed interest in bombers after German raids on London in 1917, strategic operations took a backseat. The RFC statement of duties for bomb squadrons included a requirement “to undertake long range offensive operations against Military or National objectives,” but this was at the bottom of the list after “fighting in the air,” “reconnaissance,” and “bombing in connection with military operations.”! This decision to give support of ground forces priority over strategic bombing reflects the overriding focus on the ground war, technological limitations that made long-range bombing problematic, and a predisposition to treat bombers as mobile guns. American senior officers adopted these British views.  The Americans learned artillery damage-assessment techniques from the British and French. During the St. Mihiel offensive, when bombers were “to destroy and harass the rear areas of the battlefield, and to attack military and industrial objectives beyond the range of artillery,” American intelligence specialists had their first serious test.14 Before that, as they trained, they read a May 1918 General Headquarters (GHQ) Instruction on