nd mines. River transport came to a near standstill.24  Page 253 of 423 60%  transshipment process and barges, the former with bombing raids and the latter with aerial mining. By late April 1944, mining caused severe difficulties because the Germans and Rumanians lacked equipment to sweep the advanced acoustic mines.2 Given RAF expertise in aerial mining, 205 Group, the only British heavy-bomber outfit in MAAF, led this effort beginning 8 April 1944. The Danube was vital to the German war economy because it was the primary artery for shipping Rumanian oil and agricultural products. Barges involved in oil transshipment each carried a load equivalent to 110 13.6-ton rail wagons and were thus critical targets. No. 205 Group mined at low level, in moonlight conditions, completing a total of eighteen operations by early October 1944 and laying 1,382 1,000- pound mines. River transport came to a near standstill.24  Page 253 of 423 60%  Poststrike photo of Ploesti. This collection of nine oil refineries was the largest in Europe and a vital source of German fuel. Bombers first interdicted fuel shipments up the Danube River with aerial mines, then attacked the refineries. This photo outlines damage from the latest raid, some of which is readily visible in the form of crushed storage tanks. Spaatz and Eaker engaged in calculated insubordination by shifting their bombers’ aim points from the adjacent marshaling yards (which they had permission to attack by April 1944) just slightly, so bombs would fall on the refineries. By the time they received official permission to bomb the refineries, Ploesti’s fuel production had already plum- meted. (NARA)  When the Ploesti campaign ended, a combined USAAF-RAF groundsurvey team went to Rumania to study bombing effects. The director of Commercial Marine, a major shipping company, and a tugboat pilot familiar with the Danube, said mining before Rumania’s defection to the Allies was significant, with more than 200 barges and sixty to seve