n, not only was there no spare track in France, but the Germans had already removed several hundred miles of tracks and crossings for use in Russia, meaning that every foot of track destroyed would require a sacrifice from some other part of the network. Finally, coal shortages and the lack of heavy equipment—especially cranes capable of lifting locomotives, of which there were perhaps twenty in France—would be exacerbated by attacks on marshaling yards, as would the shortage of skilled railway workers, many of whom would become casualties, would absent themselves, or would join the Maquis. There- fore, the report noted,  Every succeeding attack would add to the difficulty of effecting repairs. Disorganisation and stagnation would be cumulative, and before the full programme of attacks... was completed, the enemy’s repair organization would be completely overwhelmed. The Railway Research Service are confident that repairs within any period of tactical relevance would then be impossible, and that when all the centres had been dealt with the traffic in the area would be virtually at a standstill. The Railway Research Service also state that under these conditions the enemy would take at least a week and possibly more to move three or four divisions from east of the Pas de Calais area to west of Paris by rail.44  The thirty-four French and Belgian marshaling yards selected by the RRS as the key targets were good from a bombardier’s perspective because they were large and easy to locate. In addition, four of the thirty-four were on electrical lines running from Paris to Bordeaux and Lamont. Destroying these installations and their power stations would require diversion of 500 to 900 steam locomotives to make good the losses. Attacking another thirty-nine German marshaling yards near the French border and therefore within range of Oboe would enhance the attacks’ effects. Finally, RRS analysts noted that sabotage by Special Air Service (SAS) and Maquis teams would also ta