y damaged or destroyed. Over 800 wagons and fifteen locomotives were also wrecked. Reconnaissance cover of 17 March showed only one locomotive with steam up and little other activity. These opening raids continued with 15-16 March and 17-18 March attacks on the Amiens-Longreau marshaling yard, causing such severe damage that it took twenty-seven days of repairs to restore basic marshaling capabilities.  The Transportation Plan and Rail Centers Attacked Argentan 3 ESsternay  Troyes  Rennes, Le Mans .  Orleans Sens **, ast re, -  ~ *~ Auxerre ~ Po ts 4 ;  +  . hy Clamecy  ° Neuvilly- *) *  Blois sur-Loire +  Saumur a ‘oe  Nantes 2  FRANCE  The interdiction plan. Note three focal points: the Seine and Loire river areas, to be sealed off by a combination of rail and bridge atta d the gap area, to be closed off by heavy attacks on marshaling yards, rail lines in open coun- try, and vital road junctions. This is how the overall effort looked once the preinvasion debates were largely resolved. (Mark, Aerial Interdiction, 237)  Transportation Attacks Begin  The opening attack on Trappes the night of 6-7 March involved 261 Halifax heavy bombers and six Pathfinder Force Mosquitoes. The first K report noted heavy damage with over 190 direct hits on the through tracks, which cut the main electrified line between Paris and Chartres and all other through lines. At least fifty of these bombs also fell directly on rolling stock, destroying or severely damaging several hundred wagons. A supplemental K report noted that the locomotive shed was 75 percent destroyed, the station’s water tower destroyed, and at least six locomotives wrecked. The following night, 304 heavy bombers seriously damaged the Le Mans marshaling yard, destroying 250 wagons, a roundabout, and six locomotives. Every through line was cut. An RTC damage assessment said a second raid on Le Mans by 205 heavies six nights later did even more severe damage. All repair shops and engine sheds were severely damaged or dest