refully, with an eye toward choosing target sets likely to cause the enemy the most grievous harm. Bombing would be concerted and intensive, and it would not be stopped until key target sets were destroyed or so severely damaged as to be useless to the enemy. A deep knowledge of the available bomber force, including its capabilities and limitations, and a sense of proper timing on the part of senior airmen as to when attacks on an enemy target set would cause the greatest harm, might make the difference between success and failure. Finally, though not specifically stated, excellent damage assessments would be required to gauge effects and effectiveness.  Sherman’s Contributions  William C. Sherman, the Air Service bomber advocate who in 1926 authored one of the first comprehensive texts on air warfare, also tied bombing, and its effects on the enemy’s war economy, to the ground campaign. In assessing the importance of bombing industries, he said, “We are accustomed to think of war as being decided only on the battlefield, and indeed this is true. ... But industrial effi- ciency can give to its possessor a tremendous advantage, when at length he arrives on the battlefield. Accordingly the destruction of an enemy’s industries assumes a tremendous importance.”12  Page 45 of 423 12%  (3) Thorough preparation of all plans of employment must be judiciously made, as the ease with which it can be placed into operation subjects this arm to hasty and faulty employment.  (4) Bombing attacks must be thorough and carried to their completion. Complete destruction of targets must be accomplished and day and night bombing must be continuous until definitely terminated. Only by such means can the maximum amount of demoralization which bombing is capable of producing be obtained.  (5) The maximum amount of bombs selected should be used in each case, to insure complete destruction and to create the fear that leads to demoralization.  (6) Detachments, constituting as they do, a detrime