ely because of their communications value or for any other single specific object, but because any additional chaos which we could cause at this juncture would make the Ger- man administrative and military problems, already immense, still more difficult.”*4  Berlin, Dresden, Leipzig, and Chemnitz were high in the rankings on the CSTC targets list, as were rail centers in the west where 6th SS Panzer Army was entraining. The list included just twenty- seven marshaling yards, down from over seventy during the height of the transportation campaign. All others had been damaged severely enough to warrant their removal.*= The CSTC then issued a supplemental list with five more targets. Rail centers to be raided in support of the Russian offensive thus came to include Berlin, Dresden, Chemnitz, Leipzig, Halle, Plauen, Dessau, Potsdam, and Erfurt. This list noted, “The following targets have been selected for their importance in relation to movements of evacuees from, and of military forces to, the Eastern Front.”2&  Dresden, which has become an emotional touchstone for the brutality of Allied bombing, was indeed demolished in a series of devastating raids. What has been all but forgotten is the Allied decision to attack Dresden and the other eight cities to speed the Red Army’s advance and end the war. Damage reports noted the chaos caused by the raids. An ACIU K report and poststrike photos of Dresden confirmed severe damage to the main rail center, which was heavily loaded with locomotives and railcars. Many fires were burning there, in neighboring industrial concerns, and among adjacent areas of petroleum, oil, and lubricants (POL) storage. Trains loaded with tanks and other vehicles had been heavily hit and were clearly visible in the photos. The roundhouse and central goods depot were destroyed, as were hundreds of railcars.22  Brigadier General McDonald, the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe (USSTAF) A-2, summed up the reasons for these raids:  The chief c