ated total factory building space in Germany. British bombs destroyed 1.4 million dwellings, forcing the resettlement of over 4.5 million people. This represented 6 percent of total dwelling units in Germany and 25 percent of those in towns attacked during this nine-month period. RE8 estimated that bombing caused a 9 percent aggregate loss in war production with the heaviest losses to machine tools (59 percent), single-engine fighter aircraft (17 percent), ball bearings (20 percent), and synthetic rubber (10 percent), with the last three the result of USAAF precision attacks, not Bomber Command area raids. Although the same problems are evident here as were present in the Bomber Command assessment discussed earlier, the portion dealing with USAAF raids was much more decisive in its assessment of damage. Clearly, RE8 analysts preferred preparing reports dealing with damage to individual installations as opposed to man-hours lost and square foot- age destroyed.2®  There is, however, no question that Bomber Command raids did great harm to the German war effort. Intelligence officers were able to point to several specifics, and they had at least a strong gut feeling about others. However, the full effects of Bomber Command's efforts have become clear only in the light of very recent scholarship, conducted primarily in the German archives. In a 1987 interview, Lieutenant Colonel Lewis Powell, Spaatz’s Ultra representative, said, “whether one approves of area bombing which the RAF did or not, it was effective in terms of disrupting communica- tions, and commitment of German personnel.”22 Powell was clearly referring to both the 1943 and 1944-1945 battles of the Ruhr.  The first clear sisn af homhing effectiveness as we have seen was the large desree of disriintinn dislacatinn and disnersal of factories and nennle When considering these effects it is imnartant ta  Page 147 of 423 37%  i en — aes into a battle of attrition it could not win.  That leaves one other issue: mor