facilities, marshaling facilities, and through lines—each received an out-of-action percentage, and the rail center a category A, B, or C damage rating. By late May, most had an A or B rating. Damage to locomotive repair shops and marshaling facilities was increasingly severe, and the number of destroyed and damaged locomotives was skyrocketing. A 23 May SHAEF damage assessment said nearly half of locomotive shops were 50 to 100 percent destroyed. Consequently, the Germans often had to write off damaged engines, worsening the shortage of motive power.442  The Germans’ problems also increased when bridges came under concerted attack on 8 May. Most bridges over the Seine and Loire were down within the next two weeks, as were many over the Albert Canal, the Meuse, and most other major waterways. These attacks forced the Germans to unload trains at these bridges, reload them onto barges, unload the barges on the far side of the river, and then either reload on trains there or road march. The latter became the more common practice after D-day, with a variety of deleterious effects. Ultra intercepts allowed intelligence specialists to track them. They also gave clear insight into the effectiveness of complementary rail and bridge attacks.448  Delaying the German Response to Allied Landings  In the days and weeks after OVERLORD, German units from the strategic reserve in France and further afield tried in vain to reach the front in time to throw Allied armies back into the sea. Their failure was largely a result of the transportation offensive. The 1st SS Panzer Division, for instance, left Louvain, Belgium, on 17 June and did not reach Caen until 4 July, seventeen days later. The journey involved 270 rail miles and another 140 road miles. It would have taken three days under preattack conditions, but bombing of marshaling yards at Ghent, Lille, and Maubeuge caused delays of over a week. Attacks on rail centers around Paris forced the division to road march. Along the way,