erous tasks. I here 1s no indication that intelligence specialists were aware of this significant problem with the accuracy of their formula. Second was the dispersal of factories, which began in late 1942 and accelerated in 1943. This allowed the Germans to reconstitute production facilities throughout the Reich, a process the Allies were not aware of until well into 1943. Third, the Germans were adept at continuing production in the basements and on the ground floors of bomb-damaged buildings. Allied photointerpreters got better at spotting the telltale signs of such activities, but the Germans stole many a march on them in this fashion. Fourth was the phenomenon of “invisible damage.” Fifth, and most important, was the maddening inability to determine with any precision how morale fit into the larger bombing-effective- ness picture.  Despite these shortcomings, the process intelligence specialists used to determine damage to the German war effort ultimately paid huge dividends because it forced them to become experts in the art of assessing damage not only to cities, but also to every component part of cities. In other words, every oil plant, marshaling yard, viaduct, bridge, canal, arms factory, and steel mill hit in the course of Bomber Command’s 1942-1943 city offensive received detailed damage assessments at the CIU, RE8, and MEW. The British also carried out a significant number of precision attacks during this period, although we tend to forget this, which lent themselves to detailed interpretation of specific facilities, as did American precision raids beginning in August 1942. This skill proved vital once the bombing effort moved away from city attacks toward a renewed focus on specific target sets, including oil and transportation, in 1944-1945. This effort also resulted in the development of new bombs, fuses, and delivery techniques, all of which led to steadily greater bombing effects.  Munitions Developments and Effectiveness Assessments  Efforts to d