nt arrived in small packets and went into battle without unit integrity. Once on the line and short of gasoline and ammunition resulting from sparse rail shipments and the exhaustion of supplies in local depots, divisions sent their trucks to railheads for supplies, with all the risks previously enumerated. Thus, the Germans were always short of fuel and ammunition. They had just enough to wage a defensive battle along a static front, but fuel shortages proved disastrous when the static front gave way to mobile warfare. Then, they quickly ran out of fuel, losing most of their vehicles from direct fire in combat or as a result of worsening fuel shortages during the retreat from the Falaise-Argentan Gap.  At each stage in this process, friction was always at work, making the German situation tenuous as units lost dedicated truck transport and thus their ability to mass and maneuver. This problem worsened as trucks were strafed, broke down, or had accidents, and as air attacks destroyed bridges, forcing detours costly in time and gasoline. Armored vehicles, in need of service after long road marches, often broke down and could not easily be repaired. Finally, fuel shortages, initially caused by distribution problems, intensified as a result of outright scarcity once fuel depots were depleted  Page 222 of 423 5A%  it found many fuel depots destroyed by fignterbombers or depleted by other units. in addition, too little ruel arrived on trains, which could only be brought in at night and then only lf repair crews managed to repair a bridge over the Seine long enough to get the train over and back before Allied aircraft attacked again.121 To make matters worse for 1st SS Panzer and all other divisions, they had to demotorize by sending their entire complement of trucks to the railheads, now 100 miles or more from the front, to haul fuel, ammunition, and rations. They did this at night, over bad roads, and under constant threat of air attack.122 Finally, fighter-bombers targ