constantly detached for special investigations.”42 They were, in other words, frequently visiting British factories, oil plants (there were several synthetic oil plants and crude oil refineries in Great Britain), and other facilities to determine how they functioned. These visits gave photointerpreters and other intelligence personnel a deep knowledge of the German war economy and its vulnerabilities, and they drove further changes in the air intelligence process.  Several of these changes grew out of a key meeting at the Air Ministry in February 1941 to determine the best use of aerial photos for assessing bomb damage. Air Vice Marshal Peck, the assistant chief of the air staff, chaired the meeting; and Group Captain Laws, the Air Ministry’s deputy director of photography, played a key role, as did Squadron Leader Riddell of the CIU and Mr. Lawrence from MEW. All agreed that “experts of M.E.W. should be available to C.1.U. to give advice on how a factory works and to state what effect the damage had on the works as a whole.”4? This meant CIU interpreters and MEW economic intelligence experts would have to work more closely with one another and with plant managers, engineers, and other experts to produce third-phase reports. The CIU provided damage assessments for raids, and MEW studied these reports, over extended periods and in the aggregate, to determine longer-term bombing effects and effectiveness on the Germans’ war economy and morale. Although Research and Experiments Department Eight (RE8) did not come into existence until 1942, it too soon played a key role by providing detailed analyses of damage and poststrike repairs.44  The CIU office responsible for this interagency coordination was K (Damage Assessment) Section, part of the original PIU in 1940 and augmented in late summer 1941 with the arrival of eight photointerpreters from HQ Bomber Command. These interpreters assessed damage done by Bomber Command raids. Products included immediate reports, due to