at nace eechinh Onante Lald tn ba tha thied maine aantethutian ta viata: Tha faveth Abiaatien watad at tha and Af than nenriaiin chantas faalatina  Page 179 of 423 45%  NINE  TRANSPORTATION CAMPAIGNS  Bombing, Air Intelligence, and the Defeat of German Armies in France, 1944  Bombardment operations relating to transport [are] perfectly conceived and realized. If we . .. had to practice a sabotage of the same character, we would not do any better. Disorganization is progressive and irreparable. The Allies make work necessary and know how to adjust their raids to await the repercussions of previous raids. .. . It would be impossible now to pass a division from north to south or south to north.  —Department Head, Northern Region, French National Railways, May 1944 Report  Additional divisions could never have compensated for the lack of gasoline during the defensive operations in Normandy, and this was equally true east of Paris, in the Siegfried Line, and after the breakthrough to the Rhine. Additional divisions in a traffic desert are always a liability.  —Generalfeldmarschall Gerd von Rundstedt, Commander in Chief, Western Front, Interrogation  We could not have conducted this offensive better ourselves.  —Oberst Hans Hoeffner, von Rundstedt’s Senior Logistician, Interrogation  Preinvasion Arguments  In the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe (USSTAF) postwar history, General Spaatz noted that heavy-bomber campaigns made three crucial contributions to Allied victory. The first was achieving air supremacy. The second was the destruction and dislocation of the German war economy. This involved a direct assault on key industries, including oil, and also a transportation campaign against railroads and canals, which led in early 1945 to a catastrophic disruption in the movement of coal, components, and oil. The destruction of Germany’s oil and transportation assets also undermined the Wehrmacht’s mobility and combat power, which Spaatz held to be the third major