l output again by mid-October. Per ton of bombs dropped, incendiaries did three times more damage than high explosives. Finally, Dewdney noted the report was based on reconnaissance cover including 100 percent of the city’s residential areas, 64 percent of its industries, and 76 percent of its marshaling yards.©2  Dewdney next explained the process RE8 had developed to produce this assessment, which included superimposing a grid on 1:5,000 scale photos, making a building-by-building inspection of damage, and assigning each building a color and shading pattern to denote the type of building (residential, commercial, or industrial) and the nature of the damage (blast, fire, or both). From there, analysts calculated total damage inflicted in thousands of square feet, thousands of cubic feet, and man-hours lost. Attendees agreed that man-hours lost should be divided into those lost through direct damage (factory closures), by diversion of workers to repairs, and to indirect effects (absenteeism). Dewdney emphasized that the CIU would have to take over this process because RE8 lacked manpower to do it. All agreed to this suggestion. The MEW representative said he and his colleagues viewed the RE8 process as a huge improvement for damage assessments and that MEW could now express raid effects in terms of percentage loss of productivity for an entire city, and possibly to measure productivity losses for various industries therein. MEW would give Bomber Command Int. 1 figures showing the relative importance of industries in each city, total percentage of war effort represented by that city (expressed in MEW’s key point rating system), and losses due to bombing by industry type, city, and percentage of the Reich’s estimated war effort. Finally, upon receipt of RE8’s man-hour loss assessments, MEW would give Bomber Command Int. 1 the new, reduced percent- age figures for various industries and the town’s adjusted total contribution to the German war effort. MEW would also pro