ransportation campaign against the Reich’s railroads and inland waterways was conceived, debated, and carried through to a successful, if less than optimal, conclusion. Together with the advance of Allied armies in the west and the Red Army offensives in the east, these attacks precipitated the Reich’s rapid col-  lapse in 1944-1945.  Tedder and Zuckerman Plan the Offensive  As the transportation offensive against French and Belgian railways reached a crescendo in late summer 1944, and as oil attacks undermined the German army’s ability to concentrate and maneuver, Tedder was at work on a new plan targeting the Reich’s railroads and canals. Zuckerman brought to bear ground-survey reports and captured railway records flooding into his Bombing Analysis Unit offices. He used these sources to argue for an all-out assault on Germany’s transportation networks. Released under Tedder’s signature on 25 October, the plan called for the complementary employ- Vienna a C) Regensburg  Budapest °o  HUNGARY  Major German railways and inland waterways. Tedder and Zuckerman designed the transportation offensive against the Reich to collapse the German war economy by disrupting the movement of coal and every conceivable item of military utility through concerted attacks on marshaling yards and canals. The Ruhr was the focal point for many of these attacks, allowing Harris to bomb cities while also destroying transportation infrastructure. (Richard G. Davis, Carl A. Spaatz and the Air War in Europe /Washington, D.C.: Center for Air Force History, 1993], 509)  It was within this milieu of strategic, operational, and bureaucratic factors that the transportation campaign against the Reich’s railroads and inland waterways was conceived, debated, and carried through to a successful, if less than optimal, conclusion. Together with the advance of Allied armies in the west and the Red Army offensives in the east, these attacks precipitated the Reich’s rapid col- lapse in 1944-1945.  Tedder and