“POINTBLANK”,  By January 1943, Bomber Command city raids were increasing in frequency and intensity as more four-engine “heavies” and better navigational and bombing aids such as Oboe and Pathfinder Force came on line. But the Germans proved exceptionally resourceful adversaries. Aside from building an increasingly lethal night air-defense system, they developed superb repair and reconstruction capabilities, began dispersing large numbers of factories, and put forced laborers to work in them. Nonetheless, British bombing had a significant effect on German war production, not least because it forced largescale industrial dispersal efforts. These dispersals impeded efficiency and reduced the quality of finished weapons because component parts had to be produced in separate locations without adequate quality control, which in turn eroded German combat power and increased the effectiveness of transportation attacks. As will become clear, British night bombing imposed many other serious costs on the German war effort.t  In the meantime, the city-bombing campaign escalated while the Americans, with their own ideas about how best to use heavy bombers, began to arrive in force. Their advocacy of high-altitude daylight precision bombardment, combined with the good results they obtained in early raids, prompted British leaders to pay heed to their ally’s preferred doctrine. In September 1942, Air Vice Marshal Slessor, assistant chief of air staff for policy, reminded Portal that it was not a good time to press the Americans to join in the citybombing effort. “I suggest,” Slessor said, “that it might have unfortunate results if we cast official doubts on the day bombing policy just now when the new Air War Plan [Air War Plans Division Plan 42, or AWPD-42] is before the U.S. Chiefs of Staff.” Portal agreed with Slessor’s observation and with his favorable view of the broader concept of American daylight precision bombing. This support among senior RAF airmen helped pave the wa