husiasm for city bombing, never lost sight of the fact that everyone involved must  regard the Bomber offensive against Germany at least as a feature in breaking her war-will second only to the largest military operations which can be conducted on the Continent until that war- will is broken. Renewed, intense efforts should be made by the Allies to develop during the winter and onwards ever-growing, ever more accurate and ever more far-ranging Bomber attacks on Germany. In this way alone can we prepare the conditions which will be favourable to the major military operations on which we are resolved.  Churchill, like the COS and later the Anglo-American Combined Chiefs of Staff, viewed bombers as part of a combined-arms team that would speed victory and make it less costly in blood and treasure.  Harris and Bombing Operations  Having said this, there is no question Harris had Churchill’s confidence, and in effect a direct line to the prime minister, until early 1944, at which point Churchill, along with Portal and several other airmen, began to change their views on city bombing’s continuing utility. Consequently, there have been accusations from all quarters that Harris’s flawed conception for bombing persisted not only as a result of Churchill’s confidence, but also because he was able in some measure to ignore Portal’s guidance. There is some truth in both statements, but it would be dangerous and entirely incorrect to make too much of them.  Harris was a fighter; he could be intransigent, and he was probably the least diplomatic of all the senior air leaders. He also selectively misquoted and exploited the air staff directive of 14 February 1942, which gave him the authority to conduct city bombing, but only until precision-bombing capabilities allowed for a change in doctrine and air strategy. Finally, Harris was the most prone among airmen to use intelligence for his own purposes and the least willing to accept what it had to tell him. Despite the increasing an