n optimal, conclusion. Together with the advance of Allied armies in the west and the Red Army offensives in the east, these attacks precipitated the Reich’s rapid col- lapse in 1944-1945.  Tedder and Zuckerman Plan the Offensive  As the transportation offensive against French and Belgian railways reached a crescendo in late summer 1944, and as oil attacks undermined the German army’s ability to concentrate and maneuver, Tedder was at work on a new plan targeting the Reich’s railroads and canals. Zuckerman brought to bear ground-survey reports and captured railway records flooding into his Bombing Analysis Unit offices. He used these sources to argue for an all-out assault on Germany’s transportation networks. Released under Tedder’s signature on 25 October, the plan called for the complementary employ- ment of air and ground forces. Tedder said:  In my opinion our primary Air objective should be the enemy’s communications. Road, water, and rail are interdependent and complementary, and our Air operations should play on that fact. The present Oil Plan is the key to movement by road and air, and, moreover, directly affects operations in the battle area. .. . Itis abundantly clear from French and German railway records (the latter kept with typical tidy thoroughness) that:  a. It was the heavy attacks on rail centres and marshalling yards which were the main factor in paralyzing the rail system in northern France, and b. The effect of these attacks was far more rapid and final than had ever been anticipated.2  This confident statement rested on the firm foundation provided by damage reports. It also came from Tedder’s recognition that transportation and oil attacks had been complementary in France and would be so again.  Tedder emphasized, however, that airmen must not equate earlier efforts with the impending attack on German transportation assets. “In Germany,” he noted, “all loss of traffic is a dead loss to the war effort.”2 He further noted that manpower and mate