ere able to draw important lessons from each bombing campaign as it was in progress and apply those lessons to subsequent raids and campaigns. In this fashion, and with very few exceptions, bombing effects and effectiveness increased during each campaign as intelligence personnel brought new tools and insights to bear.  The third kind of damage assessment occurred after the end of hostilities, when Allied troops occupied western Germany, giving ground survey teams direct access to all targets of interest and the ability to interview officials affiliated with the operation and repair of bomb-damaged facilities. In 1918-1919 and 1945-1946, British and American ground survey teams collected masses of data. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey, published in 1945-1946, totaled over 200 bound volumes. It described effects and effectiveness of the bombing of virtually every target set attacked by “heavies.” Yet the conclusions scholars have drawn from these reports are very much at odds, given the incomplete and therefore contestable nature of intelligence analyses, and the motives for pro- ducing the studies.  Because air intelligence personnel during World War I had access only to the first and third kinds of analyses, lacked anything like the photoreconnaissance and photointelligence capabilities available to their successors in World War II, and had to grapple with a brand-new kind of warfare, their assessments tended to be shallow and inaccurate. Yet at times they were also sophisticated and more accurate than one might have thought possible given the embryonic nature of intelligence.  During the Second World War, the air intelligence organization required to perform damage assessments came of age. It included a closely interwoven collection of intelligence producers and photoreconnaissance units. The resulting intellectual infrastructure gave airmen a deep understanding of the German war effort and the ways in which bombing could degrade it. The world’s best ph