scence between January 1936 and September 1939. New organizations, reconnaissance aircraft, and the first cadre of RAF photointerpreters joined photographic specialists and cameras, both of which had already reached a relatively mature state, to provide the first clear indication that a new air intelli- gence organization was emerging. The picture was less positive for the development of American capabilities.  = -  The American Experience: Good Bombing, Poor Air Intelligence  While the British had done relatively poorly developing operational bombing capabilities but well with the formation of air and economic intelligence organizations, the case was reversed for the Americans, who developed a clear doctrine, an excellent heavy bomber and bombsight, good bombs, and good navigational equipment and skills, but lagged far behind in developing air intelligence organizations. As it turned out, this worked out for both parties, with the Americans benefiting from British air intelligence and the British from the addition of hundreds, and then thousands, of American heavy bombers for operations against Germany. In this sense, if high-altitude precision daylight bombardment doctrine was a doctrine in search of an airplane, it was also a doctrine in search of a serious air intelligence capability. Although Arnold and his lieutenants were forward thinkers in the realm of air warfare, their vision did not extend to air intelligence. This was nowhere more evident than in their almost complete lack of emphasis on it until 1941.  By 1934, the Air Corps was well on the way to developing a heavybomber capability. Five things had begun to come together: clear doctrine; the B-17, an aircraft ideally suited to the new doctrine; the Norden bombsight; better bombs and fuses; and intensive aircrew training. As Peter Faber noted, the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) was “the incubator of bombardment theory and doctrine” for a generation of airmen—the same generation called on to put doctr