movement toward Normandy, helping fighter-bombers to do their deadly work. Tedder, always a deep thinker, concluded his introduction with an assertion that he “did not wish to claim too much for the plan,” but that without it the landings would fail.  Portal, always the diplomat, weighed in at this point, saying he was sure everyone agreed that the transportation plan would have a very serious effect on German movement toward the Normandy battle area. The only remaining question was whether the effort would do enough to meet its stated objective of facilitating a successful lodgment and buildup. Intense discusion followed, including several views that the plan offered too little in the way of disruption to have any significant effect 84  Eisenhower then said the transportation plan, “given everything he had read” (in other words, the dozens of intelligence analyses that had flooded his desk in recent weeks), had the only reasonable chance of success. He further noted that any reduction in the German ability to move and concentrate forces would be worthwhile. In other words, he did not expect complete interdiction, but rather enough to give his troops the time they needed to get ashore and achieve a lodgment. The supreme commander's views augured well for Tedder’s plan.&  Snaatz. then said he had siven Fisenhower his views on the nlan in a naner favoring oil installations as the kev target set. He hased his nlan on three nremises. themselves resting on intellisence of  Page 206 of 423 51%  transportation offensive, USSTAF/EOU, Bomber Command, the Air Ministry, and MEW, among others, made an alliance of convenience against Tedder and Zuckerman’s plan, which had support only from their own staffs and RE8. Of course, Tedder also had Eisenhower’s ear and complete trust, which proved decisive in the final outcome.82  The Key Meeting: 25 March 1944  When Eisenhower decided in favor of the transportation plan at the 25 March 1944 meeting, he said everything he had read conv