my-in-the-field is absolutely dependent upon munitions. ... There are... certain key industries which can be destroyed and the destruction of which will produce a bottle-neck and consequently put an end indirectly to the whole output of munitions. Some 80% of the whole chemical industry of Germany is concentrated in 12 works within raiding distance from the Nancy [Ochey Airfield] area. The contents are undoubtedly vulnerable and the works would be practically impossible to duplicate out of reach. The effect, therefore, of destroying these works would be to cut off the supply of high explosives, of mustard gas, and propellant powder. Germany is almost completely relying upon synthetic nitric acid for all high explosives.*2  Tiverton had grasped the greatest underlying weakness in the German war economy. He also knew that nearly all the plants were within range of British bombers based at Ochey, and that they were almost all along the Rhine River, making them relatively easy for bomber crews to locate. Finally, Tiverton hit upon a vital fact regarding chemical plants, which Allied intelligence specialists recog- nized over two decades later in synthetic oil plants: they were large, vulnerable to bombing, and not capable of dispersing their operations or moving to locations out of bomber range.  The only thing Tiverton did not address directly was damage assessment. Nonetheless, there is clear evidence that Tiverton implicitly considered it in his plans. His preoccupation with bomb weight required to destroy a given target or all those within a larger target set, for instance, indicates he foresaw a concerted bombing effort, and, by extension, a means for determining its effects and effectiveness. However, he never explicitly discussed damage assessments, indicating that despite early efforts to establish air intelligence capabilities, they had not yet become an integral part of the targeting-operations—assessment feedback loop, as they would during World War II.  Syke