ttacks that hampered the movement of heavy weapons, fuel, and ammunition to the front; and the ineffective supply system. All these factors came together in early 1945 to seal the fate of the Reich’s armies in the east.22  German Logistics: An Achilles’ Heel  The major problem with the German army’s supply system was a bifurcation of operational and supply responsibilities. This posed serious risks when Russian advances and Allied bombing inhibited the movement of supplies. Poor placement of fuel and ammunition depots combined with decreasing deliveries and deep Soviet penetrations of the front line to produce a series of operational cataclysms that destroyed the German army in the east. The Wehrmacht’s—and Hitler’s—cavalier attitude toward logistics was reflected in the fact there was no supply expert present at the Fiihrer’s daily meetings. Consequently, logistical difficulties received insufficient consideration. Ironically, oil and transportation attacks drove a centralization of supply functions at Oberkommando der Wehrmacht (OKW). The result was a shift from a supply system in which nobody at the Fithrer’s conferences paid attention to the details of distributing supplies or the structure of the depot system to one in which rigid centralization produced inflexibility. Furthermore, the OKW quartermaster general had no control over each service’s quartermaster until late 1944. This led to wasted effort and resources.24  Another serious problem had to do with supply channels, which ran directly from the quartermaster general of the army to the chief supply officers of the various field armies. Army groups and army corps headquarters were not part of official supply channels until December 1944. Nor was there any centralized control of supply on the three fighting fronts. Field armies carried and distributed supplies, in theory, through army supply distribution groups and their motor transport regiments and battalions, which carried supplies to combat divisions at