nd of raids. Intelligence analysts missed this.  Oe inn a a  The CSTC: Refining Targeting and Damage Assessment  Bottomley and Spaatz were concerned about a resurgence of production, but they had the advantage of knowing where the Reich’s oil position stood from week to week and expert advisory bodies to help them make the right targeting decisions. In fact, they were also determining how best to bring together intelligence for all high-value targets under a single advisory body, deciding to combine the functions of the Railway Targets Committee, the JOTC, and the Jockey Committee (formed in 1943 to make targeting recommendations for the attack on the Luftwaffe). This new committee must have the expertise to monitor damage reports and build weekly target lists. Ina memo to Spaatz, Bottomley set forth his vision:  I feel that one of the first things we must put on a sound footing is the advice we get as to target priorities in the various systems of strategic objectives. For this purpose, I suggest that we consti- tute at once a Strategic Objectives Target Committee, whose function will be to advise us jointly on this matter, and to be responsible for the compilation of the target list dealing with strategic objectives which are periodically updated. ... The Main Committee could regulate the activities of the various joint sub committees and working committees dealing with Oil, Transportation, and the G.A.F. In this way, the whole system of examination of strategical target systems and strategical target priorities could be properly managed.114  Spaatz agreed, and in late October the Combined Strategic Targets Committee (CSTC) was up and running.14>  The CSTC was as small as possible to allow for rapid decision making, but also flexible enough to allow for visiting experts to provide insights. The CSTC had representatives from the Air Ministry’s Directorate of Bomber Operations (including Bufton, the British cochair), Bomber Intelligence Directorate, and Operations D