ice in Bomber Command. The British never abandoned their efforts to develop a precision bombing capability, by day and night, which proved crucial with the start of the pre-oVERLORD transportation campaign in spring 1944. Their equally impressive improvements in the damage-assessment arena, along with the new Path- finder Force, made this so.24  Formation of Pathfinder Force in August 1942, and subsequent improvements in bombing accuracy, imposed additional responsibilities on N Section. The larger numbers of aircraft involved in night attacks after August 1942 produced more strike photos, many of which lacked ground detail. In other words, they recorded only fires and explosions on the ground, along with distinctive light patterns made by flak and searchlights. In such cases, photointerpreters had to plot by fires, which involved determining the location, in relation to the aim point, where aircraft released their bombs. The number of cases in which this proved necessary ballooned to more than 500 aircraft per mission on larger raids. Part of this process was a requirement to assess the course of each attack by finding the colored target-marking flares dropped by Pathfinder Force. This drove a need for color film, which was in use by late 1942 and comprised 80 percent of strike-camera film by 1944. When N Section and their Bomber Command counterparts completed this huge task, they sent their work for each raid to the Operational Research Section, where analysts determined concentration achieved and total bomb weight on target. 32  The turn toward city bombing had a major influence on the air intelligence directorate at Bomber Command, which underwent a huge expansion. When Air Chief Marshal Arthur Harris took charge in February 1942, he made the chief of his Photointerpretation Section, Squadron Leader Muir-Warden, “Target Advisor to the C-in-C.” His duty was to select the most lucrative city targets and develop detailed target materials. Muir-Warden and his subord