f the problem and a plan to warn civilians living near rail yards to move away. The letter also emphasized that the transportation plan would not interfere greatly with Bomber Command’s city attacks—something of great importance to Harris and, to an increasingly limited but still real extent, Churchill. But the civilian-casualty issue, with its competing intelligence estimates, most clearly stretched out the debate—even more than the continuing efforts to get oil and bridges onboard—and further delayed the full implementation of preinvasion bombing.  Early in April, Churchill advised Eisenhower that the cabinet was becoming increasingly concerned at the possibility of heavy civilian casualties. It took a concerted effort by Eisenhower, Tedder, and Portal to derail this opposition, starting with intelligence analyses countering the ones RE8 and Bomber Command had put forth. When bombing started, SHAEF provided additional reports based on French and Belgian human intelligence sources, proving civilian casualties were much lower than expected.1°° Perhaps most decisive, however, were the political allies this group brought onboard.  Page 209 of 423 52%  The Civilian-Casualties Issue  On 29 March 1944 Portal told Churchill that Eisenhower had chosen the transportation plan as “the best way for the strategic bombers to pave the way for a successful OvERLORD.”22 Their primary target, however, would continue to be the Luftwaffe in an effort to ensure air supremacy over the Normandy battle area. Churchill approved the draft directive, and Portal signed it on behalf of the Combined Chiefs of Staff. It went into immediate effect. However, Portal’s warning that raids on marshaling yards could result in heavy civilian casualties gave Churchill pause, despite Eisenhower's awareness of the problem and a plan to warn civilians living near rail yards to move away. The letter also emphasized that the transportation plan would not interfere greatly with Bomber Command’s city attacks—s