inadequate fuel supplies. The cutting of railroad bridges in eight cities also “devastatingly contributed to the halting of the Ardennes Offensive.”142  Yet another problem involved the use of a rapidly increasing number of “homogeneous trains” during fall and winter 1944-1945—something not covered in the British foreign office report. Problems created by destruction of marshaling yards and railway signaling equipment forced this expedient, which involved loading an entire train with one item. It made loading at marshaling yards much easier, which was an absolute necessity, given reduced sorting and throughput capacities and the breakdown of Reichsbahn command-and-control capabilities. However, it made resupply at the front much slower because trains had to make multiple stops to deliver their one item. This also meant more long-distance supply hauls by trucks since they had to make the drive more often to pick up each item. There is, however, no indication that intelligence or British foreign office personnel ever recognized these important effects of transportation attacks.  Nor did they realize how significantly transportation attacks affected the Reich’s dispersed war industries. Postwar interrogations, however, made this clear. As we have seen, Bomber Command's city raids and 8th Air Force precision attacks made a significant contribution to victory because they forced dispersal of industries in 1943 and 1944. Dr. Karl Otto Saur, who headed up Speer’s technical office, said this was the single most major impact of bombing in 1943.443 Hans Kehrl, head of Speer’s raw materials and planning departments, said unfulfilled production due to lack of transportation of raw materials and components for final assembly at centralized factories was about 25 percent from June to October 1944, at least 60 percent from November 1944 to January 1945, and 90 percent from February to April 1945. He concluded: “The extensive dispersal of industry had a definitely unfavorable effec