onfirmed German logistical difficulties during an interrogation in January 1944, saying they suffered from serious fuel, truck, and ammunition shortages. He recommended the Allies continue attacks on marshaling yards and key bridges to force the Germans to use more gas and wear out more trucks. To buttress his case, he quoted a German general staff officer as having said on 15 November 1943, “If the bombings of our communications had continued as in September and October, we would have had to withdraw to a line north of Rome.”22 Unfortunately, Allied bombers did not continue these raids, instead moving to other areas, and the Germans were able to make repairs. This argued in favor of concerted attacks on specific transportation zones rather than dispersed attacks against the entire railroad infrastructure, another lesson Zuckerman applied to the transportation campaign in support of OVERLORD.  _, Pena v 4 Was ie Sei  Page 187 of 423 46%  Annotated bomb-fall plot for 17 July 1943 USAAF raid on main marshaling yard at Naples. Despite the serious damage and delays created by these kinds of raids in Italy, the narrow and mountainous peninsula, adequate road and rail networks, excessive Allied dispersion of air effort, and German toughness kept bombing from achieving pivotal results. The story would be very different in France. (NARA)  XEMBOURG POLAND |  Page 187 of 423 46%  Pes te, F, Ww RE STR “e SCALE- YARUS  <~ “ 4 Annotated bomb-fall plot for 17 July 1943 USAAF raid on main marshaling yard at Naples. Despite the serious damage and delays created by these kinds of raids in Italy, the narrow and mountainous peninsula, adequate road and rail networks, excessive Allied dispersion of air effort, and German toughness kept bombing from achieving pivotal results. The story would be very different in France. (NARA)  POLAND  Railroads and  FRANCE GERMANY Roadways in Italy  Railroads  Roadways  Brescia _, Mitten, * Nerona  .Pavia  Page 190 of 423 A7T%  ANNOLALEA DOMD-fall prol