urate bombing, with nearly 50 percent of bomb tonnage hitting the city, which was made largely of wooden timbers and was highly flammable. Night strike and poststrike photographs showed immense damage, with approximately 190 acres, or 30 percent of the city’s built-up area, destroyed. German sources captured after the war confirmed that over 2,400 buildings were destroyed or severely damaged and another 8,411 lightly damaged—62 percent of all structures. Of these, 256 were industrial concerns, including the destroyed Dragerwerke, which made oxygen equipment for U-boats. It was a deadly and dramatic raid.4*  This success was like a tonic to Churchill, Cherwell, and the long-suffering Air Ministry leadership. The earlier atmosphere of gloom and pessimism turned to optimism, in which all things again seemed possible. Cherwell sent an upbeat note to Churchill on 30 March estimating that projected annual heavy bomber production by mid-1943 (10,000 aircraft) would provide the weight of attack needed to destroy Germany’s fifty-eight largest cities, which housed 22 million people. He believed such attacks “would break the spirit of the people.”2® The prime minister, moved again to optimism, asked what needed to be done to expand the scale and destructiveness of city raids even further by 1943. Cherwell told him navigation apparatus (Gee) and blind-bombing aids such as H2S, the first radar usefil for navigation and tarset location. were vital. In addition. imnroved navigation skills were indisnensahle. Finallv. he said. develonment of high charse-to-weishtratio hamhs sich as the  Page 116 of 423 30%  The number of cases in which this proved necessary ballooned to more than 500 aircraft per mission on larger raids. Part of this process was a requirement to assess the course of each attack by finding the colored target-marking flares dropped by Pathfinder Force. This drove a need for color film, which was in use by late 1942 and comprised 80 percent of strike-camera film by 19