y to assess bombing’s effects and effectiveness. Their reports, which corroborated wartime damage reports with German reports of damage to the same targets, provide a superb means for checking the accuracy of wartime assessments.4 The two surveys occurred independently and involved visits to many of the same targets. Although the American survey report made it through the staffing process intact, the British survey went through three iterations before emerging in 1920 as Air Ministry Publication 1225, which, due in large measure due to Trenchard’s influence, bore little resemblance to the original submitted by the survey team.4 The original, when studied in conjunction with the American version and German records, demonstrates that Allied bombing did very modest physical damage. In fact, bomb damage represented less than one-tenth of 1 percent of total costs for the German war effort.1® Nor did it have an appreciable impact on morale. Finally, heavy reliance on aircrew reporting for the majority of World War I made wartime damage reports rosier than postwar assessments.  As Major H. M. Paul, British survey team leader, noted, bomb damage to marshaling yards was at most moderate, although he also emphasized that severe damage had been done in several cases, including one instance in which a British bombing raid destroyed a fully loaded ammunition train at the rail center in Thionville, and several others in which bombs hit heavily loaded railcars in packed sidings. Further, he stated that putting a complete stop to railroad traffic supplying German armies in the Metz area would have been all but impossible for the small IF bomber force. In fact, such an operation would have required air attacks “carried out in great force, a number of points being attacked simultaneously.” Finally, Paul noted that German railroad officials referred to the bombing as an annoyance that resulted in a greater loss of work through alarms rather than damage. Morale problems were real but c