f horses and wagons were destroyed. Several motorized units lost all their vehicles in a few minutes and had to take horses and wagons from the French in order to proceed further.14+  To stay ahead of advancing Allied columns from the west and south, these troops had to keep moving during daylight hours, which led to their undoing. Most reached the frontiers of Germany and were reequipped (not as well as previously) to fight in the war’s closing campaigns; but somewhere along the back roads of southern France, their faith in a German victory faltered. In consequence of these cataclysms, Albert Speer, touring the Reich’s western defenses, wrote to the Fithrer on 15 September 1944, saying, “The lack of heavy weapons felt by the army on the Western Front is shock- ing. ... There is a terrifyingly large number of weaponless soldiers in the West.”142  The same problem developed in southwestern France, where a German 1st Army troop column of approximately 100,000 men evacuated in early September. Reconnaissance aircraft discovered them near Nevers, Bruges, and Poitiers, moving northeast mostly on foot. Four 8th Air Force fighter groups began strafing operations, and from there, the disaster befalling this forlorn column was complete. Those who survived were almost all captured when American columns cut them off. Most of these 100,000 soldiers were walking, not riding trains or trucks, providing further proof the transportation campaign had destroyed the French railroad network and run the German army out of gasoline. The railroads, already a complete shambles, were incapable of transporting these soldiers. They had a 450-mile walk ahead of them to reach the German frontier. The “traffic desert” (Verkehrs Wiiste), as von Rundstedt called it, created by the bombing of marshaling yards, bridges, and canals thus cost the Germans another 90,000 troops who spent the rest of the war in POW camps rather than fighting on for Reich and Fithrer.143  The Traffic Desert  By September,