ped green target indicators followed by flares to illuminate the target area. Low-flying Mosquitoes then acquired the target visually and marked it with red 1,000-pound target-marking flares deployed at altitudes between 400 and 1,400 feet. To do this, they flew under the solid cloud cover obscuring the target. The master bomber in the lead aircraft controlled the attack from start to finish, ordering crews to drop their bombs on the glow of the target indicators, which were visible through the clouds covering the target. The Lancaster crews bombed individually from altitudes between 12,000 and 18,000 feet.22 These tactics indicated a high degree of proficiency. This stunning feat of airmanship, repeated a number of times against large Bergius plants between December 1944 and March 1945, indi- cated just how good Bomber Command’s elite formations, and even the main-force units, had become by this time.  There were notable differences between RAF and United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) raids. The former delivered larger payloads and bombs, including 4,000-pound munitions whose blast effect severely damaged the vital aboveground pipelines that delivered steam pressure, coal sludge, oil, and fuel to the various parts of oil plants, and to the buried electrical conduits and water pipes, without which the plants could not function. Payloads alone indicate the potential disparity in effects. Whereas the RAF bombers in the Briix and Leuna missions dropped 856 tons and 1,304 tons, respectively, the 8th Air Force raid on Harburg, which produced good but more modest results, delivered 187 tons—and this was the largest of the week’s raids by USAAF heavies. Put simply, only Bomber Command could deliver crushing blows against large Bergius plants. These spectacular raids, and several impressive ones carried out by 8th and 15th Air Forces, reduced gasoline production for January to 97,000 tons—18 percent of the preattack level, an all-time low.4  Meanwhile, the Russians overran