ailable to intelligence specialists. Tiverton’s proposals confirm that he understood the feedback loop between targeting, bombing, and damage assessment.2  Finally, Tiverton advocated a shift from amorphous target lists and morale bombing to systematic target selection according to their effects on key industries, and the use of specific bomb types for each target. However, nothing came of this or Tiverton’s other efforts to push Independent Force (IF) bombing from a morale to a target-system focus.4  Trenchard rejected Tiverton’s recommendations; indeed, it is doubtful whether he even seriously considered them. As the general officer commanding the IF, he exercised operational control independent of the Air Ministry. This allowed Trenchard to run the bombing campaign as he saw fit.  Trenchard  Page 30 of 423 9%  British and American postwar bombing surveys were fundamentally different. The report produced by the Air Ministry was a political document enshrining morale bombing. American reports, including the Air Service lessons learned and the postwar bombing survey, were more practical, seeking to determine how best to employ bombers during the next war. These reports, available to American airmen during the interwar period, greatly affected the development of theory, doctrine, and capabilities. The bombing survey had enormous influence because a summary version made it to the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS), HQ Air Service, and several other locations. ACTS strategic bombing advocates relied on it as a foundational document in developing precision daylight bombardment doctrine. Implications for air intelligence were implicit but nonetheless dramatic. A detailed examination of the effect of these postwar reports, and their key wartime proponents, will shed light on the close relationship between bombing doctrine and air intelligence during World War II.  This examination must begin by assessing the influence of three key players. The first two, Tiverton and Trench