ligence officers at several bomb squadrons. Perhaps most vital, however, was his visit to the CIU, the RAF’s centralized photoin- terpretation facility, where he had a long discussion with the commanding officer, Wing Commander H. Hemming, and toured the facility.  Cabell said, “The interpretation of aerial photographs requires more than a casual study by the average individual. It requires an exhaustive study by specially trained and experienced men, backed by an organization able readily to obtain factual confirmation of the suspected identity of an object on the photograph.”=4 In a stinging rebuke to the lethargic pace of American air intelligence developments, Cabell asserted, “The compilation of objective folders including target maps is primarily a peace-time activity that must be continued in war time.” Equally important, he continued, was the coordination between British military and civilian intelligence specialists. The key to this success lay in the committee system established to address these issues. These committees provided a forum where experts met frequently to discuss emerging capabilities and solve problems.*4  Cabell was also impressed with the smooth operation of PRU1, and even more importantly with the excellent coordination between this unit and its counterpart, the CIU. He emphasized that British air and economic intelligence agencies depended to a great extent on aerial photographs. Cabell was particularly taken with the system the British had worked out for their photointerpretation and damage-assessment efforts, both of which involved first-, second-, and third-phase interpretation. The first phase was conducted at PRU1 and PRU3 by photointerpreters stationed at those two photoreconnaissance units. They completed a rapid interpretation of all photographs from each sortie and sent key findings via teletype to CIU, Bomber Command, Air Ministry, and other interested parties within two hours of receipt of the photos, followed by courier delive