period, it is anything but clear that such a capability would have survived or developed even had the survey arrived at different conclusions. The American report is a case in point. Despite the survey’s findings in favor of precision daylight bombardment and against morale bombing, most of the required intellectual infrastructure disappeared by the early 1920s and did not reappear until 1941. Yet the precedent was set in the final months of World War I, and the summary of the American bombing survey, which made its way into the ACTS curriculum, forced airmen to think, even if only fleetingly, about how they would go about assessing bomb damage in a future war.  The German View  Ironically, the most detailed insights in both surveys came from German damage reports. Published in summary form in 2000, they corroborate the American survey team’s conclusion that bombing results were modest at best. Of the 15,700 bombs dropped on Germany, half fell in 1918. Bombing killed 740 people and injured 1,900.22 Germans regularly ignored air raid warnings and watched as bombers droned overhead. Most casualties came as a result of this habit. Once people began taking shelter, casualties dropped to nearly zero. In ten of the largest raids of July 1918, the Germans suffered no casualties.28 As one scholar notes: “What the Air Ministry characterized as panic was mainly a demand for prompt payment of insurance claims.”22  One other crucial issue relating to the German reports is worth noting. Although the British and Americans did not have access to them until after the war in this instance, the story was different in World War II. Capitalizing on Ultra decrypts of German messages containing damage reports and on captured damage records compiled by the Germans and other officials in Italy, France, Belgium, and western Germany, intelligence officers could determine with great accuracy the degree of damage heavy bombers did to German industry. This use of the enemy’s damage reports duri