ed up.42  Page 307 of 423 72%  ee i ae _ a ~ had some relation to military movements at any given time might not conflict with the primary aim of causing the maximum degree of economic disorganization. Mr. Lawrence said that he agreed that S.H.A.E.F’s request for the attack of particular targets would not conflict with the intention of causing economic disorganization.”2“ This exchange underscored the CSTC’s strategic focus. And after the Allies checked the German advance during the Ardennes offensive, CSTC target lists again reflected a focus on disrupting German coal shipments and war industries  In the short term, however, the Ardennes offensive forced a massive shift of bomber assets to attacks on marshaling yards and bridges immediately behind the front. Once again, Ultra intercepts clarified their significant effects. Major raids on Cologne on 21 and 22 December stopped all movement at the Cologne Ehrenfeld and Cologne Nippes rail centers for two days.22 The next week, Army Group B said destruction of railway lines, marshaling yards, and road junctions in the Eifel made the supply situation tenuous.4° Another twenty intercepts the next week emphasized severe damage  caused by interdiction missions.*4 On 10 January, a message to Army Group G said rail centers at Cologne, Saarbriicken, and Karlsruhe were severely damaged and the traffic situation strained. Repair shops were out of action, many locomotives were unserviceable, and traffic was severely backed up.42  Page 308 of 423 72%  Interdiction of Kaiserslautern rail center during the Ardennes offensive. This raid was one of hundreds by heavy bombers to hinder the movement of troops, ammunition, and fuel to the front. Although this attack was successful, it was just one of many instances where bombers were whipsawed from military-strategic to operational and tactical targets. Nonetheless, these raids served a dual purpose by hampering the German advance while also interdicting the movement of coal and steel. T