.” Finally, Paul noted that German railroad officials referred to the bombing as an annoyance that resulted in a greater loss of work through alarms rather than damage. Morale problems were real but could usually be balanced by pay raises.12  Quantifying morale effects proved difficult at best. Nonetheless, both survey teams tried. Indeed, German reporting noted bombing’s limited morale effects. Unfortunately, the heavily edited final version of the British survey contained none of the original concerns about morale bombing’s likely ineffectiveness. Instead, it made outlandish claims, referring to “the immense moral effect of our air raids into Germany” and the “indisputable proof of the efficacy of air raids during the period under review.”!£ The final report also said of German workers: “Constant alarms and raids ruined their nerves. in same cases for life Had the war continued a few months longer. a more or less total hreakdown of lahour at several of the Works might have heen confidently exnected.”12 These renorts  Page 32 of 423 9%  ee a  Finally, it suggests how important bombing doctrine, objectives, and campaign planning would be in the development of an Allied air intelligence organization. Also central to Anglo-American bomb- ing developments—and divergence—were the postwar bombing surveys.  ee =~ in iia  a a Ae A  Postwar Bombing Surveys  Immediately after the Great War, ground survey teams traveled to western Germany to assess bombing’s effects and effectiveness. Their reports, which corroborated wartime damage reports with German reports of damage to the same targets, provide a superb means for checking the accuracy of wartime assessments.4 The two surveys occurred independently and involved visits to many of the same targets. Although the American survey report made it through the staffing process intact, the British survey went through three iterations before emerging in 1920 as Air Ministry Publication 1225, which, due in large measure due to Trencha