the type of traffic on railroad sidings, the state of construction of individual U-boats, the layout of radar installations, and a wealth of other information not previously discernible on photographs taken from such high altitudes. American cameras of even greater precision joined the F52 by 1943. The K-18 provided the largest rectangular images (9” x 18”) and took 250 to 260 images per roll of film, while the other principal U.S. camera during World War II, the F-17, could take 450 to 500 9” x 9” photographs. Both had 40” lenses. The K-19, optimized for night photorecon- naissance and combined with electric strobe flashes pioneered by George Goddard, gave the Allies at least a reasonable insight on key German activities and facilities around the clock 1%  By 1944, American photointerpreters had joined their British counterparts to form a large and expert group of specialists providing a wealth of vital intelligence. Over 2,000 personnel worked at the ACIU and its Mediterranean equivalent by this point. The numbers increased steadily until 1945, when the ACIU had over 1,750 personnel assigned and the Mediterranean CIU another 500 or so. The Americans drew nearly even with the British in terms of expertise brought to the air intelligence effort, mostly as a result of posttraining British tutelage 1%  The Americans took their lead from the British, who by 1944 were masters of their trade. They did four crucial things to build an expert corps of photointerpreters. First, they gave the CIU carte blanche to hire highly qualified civilians. Second, they placed these personnel in positions that best suited their talents. Third, they put them through a rigorous training program that included both formal training in the schoolhouse at Nuneham Common and on-the-job training at the CIU. British photointerpreters were not considered journeymen until they had completed a yearlong appren- ticeship with CIU veterans. Fourth, and most important, ACIU leadership held photointerpret