lso listed individual industrial facilities damaged and details on the extent and nature of the damage. This required photointerpreters to conduct a building-by-building analysis. Detailed interpretation reports also acted as a basis for K Section special reports, often issued in conjunction with MEW and RE8, on postraid reconstruction, cumulative damage, and munitions effectiveness assessment.42  Because these reports said much about bombing efficacy, they also had a significant influence on the evolution of bombing policy, doctrine, and strategy. Although the small-scale and sporadic raids, small bombs, and poor accuracy early in the war made K Section’s job appear thankless, interpreters gained valuable experience and were ready, when the bombing effort expanded dramatically in 1942, to meet challenges brought on by city bombing. The addition of American photointerpreters in 1942 also helped ease the personnel tempo associated with this expanded offensive. The most important development, however, was K Section’s increasingly close interaction with MEW and other civilian intelligence agencies. As these relationships strengthened in 1940-1941, they resulted in  Page 96 of 423 25%  changes 1n the air intelligence process.  Several of these changes grew out of a key meeting at the Air Ministry in February 1941 to determine the best use of aerial photos for assessing bomb damage. Air Vice Marshal Peck, the assistant chief of the air staff, chaired the meeting; and Group Captain Laws, the Air Ministry’s deputy director of photography, played a key role, as did Squadron Leader Riddell of the CIU and Mr. Lawrence from MEW. All agreed that “experts of M.E.W. should be available to C.1.U. to give advice on how a factory works and to state what effect the damage had on the works as a whole.”42 This meant CIU interpreters and MEW economic intelligence experts would have to work more closely with one another and with plant managers, engineers, and other experts to produce thi