ssments. The rigorous standards for this process were clear in instructions issued to K Section interpreters:  In drawing up such summaries the Section has been instructed that all statements are to be statements of fact, or deductions which are supported by the facts which the interpretation has dis- closed. No statement which is a matter of opinion, or relates to matters of which the interpreter can have no knowledge is to be made. In particular no adjudication on the success or the failure of an operation is to be made. [However,] it is felt that the value of the P.I. reports will be diminished if men of high intellectual caliber are debarred from stating the results of a careful and detailed study of the information obtainable—a study which no other officer is in a position to make.©2  This guidance left no doubt as to the high standards demanded of K Section interpreters and emphasized their authority to make reasoned statements about the results of their studies. These air intelligence experts, who grew in number from nine in 1940 to fifty-four in 1944, produced K reports, which were standard damage assessments, and KS reports, which assessed German rubble- clearance and repair efforts and included target illustrations showing damage to specific buildings. They also produced KR reports to address requests for specialized assessments. By 1944, each K Sec- tion damage assessment was going to between 30 and 485 addressees.&  The next ACIU second-phase office involved in this work—D (Industry) Section—tracked every known industrial facility in the Reich and occupied lands. Photointerpreters in this office, who numbered two in May 1941 and twenty-five by 1944, examined every aerial photograph of interest, looking for new facilities or changes to existing ones. They maintained a card index with several thousand entries, each providing the name of the facility, what it produced, its location, its exact coordinates, and a list of photographic cover by sortie number, p