try’s technical branch said all aircraft were out of fuel. The Luftwaffe’s flight-testing program came to a screeching halt.128  Even more worrisome for the Germans was a 25 October order from the commander in chief west (von Rundstedt) requiring the most stringent measures to reduce motor transport, urging the use of horse-drawn wagons and producer-gas vehicles. Even heavy units, whose mobility was vital to their combat effectiveness, were demotorized and remained so, with the partial exception of the Ardennes offensive, for the rest of the war. In fact, only 300 tons of motor fuel was issued during the next ten days, one-sixth the normal allowance. This meant each division in the west’s two army groups received about 5 tons (1,200 gallons) per day instead of the standard 30 tons (7,200 gallons).12° These paltry allotments were adequate only to maintain a static front.  At the end of October, Goring issued another order for further drastic curtailment of all flying operations. Fighter operations were allowed only when contact with the enemy was likely. The same day, cryptographers intercepted a message stating that Luftgaue in western Germany were now using oxen to tow aircraft and heavy equipment.422 By November, numerous aircraft units were sending messages saying they were out of fuel. In fact, there were twelve separate intercepts dealing with this problem.+# Luftflotte 4 on the South Russian Front said operations would occur only when success was certain or the occasion critical 422  As Ultra recorded these calamities, it also became clear USAAF raids were incapable of doing the same damage to oil plants as Bomber Command attacks. In addition to carrying much heavier bomb loads, RAF bombers could rely on very accurate target marking by a veteran Pathfinder Force. With winter on the way and the large Bergius plants in eastern Germany and southwestern Poland coming back online, Bufton and Maxwell recognized that only Bomber Command could inflict the damage requi