d aqueducts kept river traffic at a low level after September. Barge traffic dropped from 24,000 tons per day in the preattack period to an average of 4,500 tons.12&  Heavy attacks on transportation networks began in November. Before this, most damage to railroads in western Germany was caused by missions flown for operational and tactical purposes. Then, attacks on railroads and inland waterways for military-strategic purposes began in earnest. Speer’s 11 November report to Hitler heralded the transportation crisis in the Ruhr. He said coal could no longer be moved, produced, or stockpiled at factories in sufficient quantities.122  The first month’s attacks reduced circulation of rolling stock in western Germany from 549,228 wagons in November to 394,802 in December, even though poor weather forced bomber crews to release all but 1,200 tons of the 18,000 dropped on marshaling yards using H2X.128 However, in December, the whipsaw effects discussed earlier reemerged as the Ardennes offensive absorbed most bombing sorties until mid-January 1945. Nevertheless, these further reduced rail traffic. In fact, attacks east of the Rhine ended organized rail shipments from the Saar and Cologne areas.122  Page 325 of 423 76%  fuel (4 percent of pre-attack total). Its weekly report closed with the statement that “the strategic attack of oil has been virtually completed.”422 By the CSTC’s 2 May meeting, enough German records, POWs, and oil plant managers had surfaced to confirm that the damage-assessment process had been exceptionally accurate. German records varied for only one installation: the Eurotank crude oil refinery.123  This note of triumphant closure was absent for the transportation offensive. The key problem here was the intelligence organization’s failure to grasp fully the devastation inflicted on railroads and waterways. The whipsaw effect caused by bombers attacking three classifications of transportation targets (tactical, operational, and military-strategic) als