that the whole war situation is poised on “oil” as on a knife edge and that by a real concentration of effort at this time we might push it over on the right side.142  Page 277 of 423 65%  aircrews had been doing, given weather and tactical limitations. Button had the advantage of Portals full confidence. He and Maxwell were thus able to convince Portal that Bomber Command attacks on distant Bergius plants were crucial. Harris, however, had just ordered area raids on Cologne and Bochum on nights well suited for oil attacks, after receiving guidance to go after Bergius plants.  Oil Attacks and the Portal-Harris Debate  The result was perhaps the most severe disagreement of the war between Portal, now a major proponent of oil attacks, and Harris. Portal, an effective but self-effacing leader who avoided acrimony, dropped the hammer on Harris but failed to follow up, letting Harris continue city bombing until April 1945 rather than relieving him of command.  The disagreement began in early November 1944, when Harris claimed that “in adopting the Oil Plan we sought a panacea. We shall fail and we are failing in our object for the reasons... that Germany being on the defensive, on interior lines and served by a close network of excellent roads and railways, will maintain the vital defensive essentials in fuel and transport in spite of all we can do to prevent her by air attack on oil.”125 Harris thus said oil targets could not be attacked with effect, but even if they could be, it was a wasted effort. How he could arrive at such a conclusion while surrounded by hundreds of intelligence reports to the contrary is perplexing. One unknown is the degree to which Harris’s late inclusion on the Ultra receipt list—7 June 1944 by some accounts, 16 August 1944 according to others—may have influenced his understanding of the sound intelligence analyses underlying the transportation and oil plans in their early phases. But this does not excuse him entirely. Given Harris’s innate sk