sed on a proposal he submitted recommending changes to the unit, all of which the PIU’s commander, Wing Commander H. Hemming, and the Air Ministry put in place. They credited Riddell’s “comprehensive knowledge of i interpretation 2 and of Service © practice and... his untiring and brilliant efforts” in  att er a a ee ae > cE i eT A.) | ec oe a er See sage go Se eee  Page 84 of 423 22%  MEAS 228 LARE UV EEO UY SVCELLILAL IN, A LALLIEL CLLLUGALLAS OLLIE SLGLE CU WV IEAL VUE DIS A RUOELY GLAU SLICER ELVES DUELLULLG SALE At SO IT he  Several important intelligence-related operational realities made themselves clear during this unfortunate gambit. First, photointerpreters at HQ Bomber Command did well interpreting strike photos taken by the few camera-equipped bombers sent on the raid and poststrike photos taken by a Blenheim reconnaissance bomber. Second, a few onboard cameras were already present in the bomber force, a positive development from a damageassessment perspective, and these numbers grew steadily over the next two years. Third, the PRUs and CIU, which soon provided the full range of photographic services required to support a bombing campaign, from taking reconnaissance, strike, and poststrike photos to producing damage assessments, were not yet far enough along in their de- velopment to do these things. Nonetheless, they were evolving rapidly, and as the bombing effort intensified, these capabilities approached maturity.  One of the most glaring deficiencies was the initial contingent of reconnaissance aircraft. The only one with the combat radius to reach Germany—and only its western territories—was the Blenheim bomber, flying at between 10,000 and 20,000 feet and unable to survive fighter attacks. Of the first eighty-nine Blenheim missions over Germany in 1939, sixteen were shot down, and half of the others failed to produce useful photographs as a result of evasive action and equipment malfunctions. The other available aircraft was the Lysander, a highly