idential, commercial, or industrial) and the nature of the damage (blast, fire, or both). From there, analysts calculated total damage inflicted in thousands of square feet, thousands of cubic feet, and man-hours lost. Attendees agreed that man-hours lost should be divided into those lost through direct damage (factory closures), by diversion of workers to repairs, and to indirect effects (absenteeism). Dewdney emphasized that the CIU would have to take over this process because RE8 lacked manpower to do it. All agreed to this suggestion. The MEW representative said he and his colleagues viewed the RE8 process as a huge improvement for damage assessments and that MEW could now express raid effects in terms of percentage loss of productivity for an entire city, and possibly to measure productivity losses for various industries therein. MEW would give Bomber Command Int. 1 figures showing the relative importance of industries in each city, total percentage of war effort represented by that city (expressed in MEW’s key point rating system), and losses due to bombing by industry type, city, and percentage of the Reich’s estimated war effort. Finally, upon receipt of RE8’s man-hour loss assessments, MEW would give Bomber Command Int. 1 the new, reduced percent- age figures for various industries and the town’s adjusted total contribution to the German war effort. MEW would also provide each city’s expected recovery time.  After attendees agreed on division of labor, they ironed out the details of the process for producing and updating Bomber Command’s damage dossiers. They settled on a ten-step process designed to be completed fourteen days after a given raid. It began with CIU’s K (Damage Assessment) Section. Each step took one or two days:  af ieee en eee” ace es — eed  . CIU K Section prepared the 1:5,000 scale prints with grid overlay.  . CIU K Section noted building types damaged (residential, commercial, and industrial) and the cause of damage (blast, fire, or both