rsary’s country, including its civilian population and war industries. All of this pointed to the need for closer cooperation between economic and air intelligence agencies.12  The FCI, composed of representatives from the treasury, foreign office, board of trade, and the service ministries, was thus designed to establish direct liaison for exchange of industrial intelligence between the board of trade and the service ministries, address all issues requiring collective action, and track key developments in Germany and Italy. To support the FCI, the IIC, established in 1931, provided industrial intelligence assessments. By 1934, the FCI had become the focal point for the collection and interpretation of air intelligence. This organization developed a close working relation- ship with the Air Ministry’s director of intelligence.18  Page 62 of 423 16%  marshaling yards, embankments, and tracks in open country. This small body of ad hoc targeteers, including technical advisors such as War Office transportation officers and the superintendent of railroads, drew up a prioritized target list based on the first serious nodal analysis of Germany’s transportation network. They also backed production of a 1,000-pound bomb for use against transportation targets, resulting in a very effective weapon. And in an unprecedented move, they asked the Air Ministry’s director of intelligence for targeting information and data on German bombs. This may have had to do with the fact that the director had finally joined the Bombing Committee as a permanent member. At the subcommittee’s second meeting on 6 July 1938, members discussed German inland waterways and agreed on the following attack priorities: reservoirs serving canals, canal banks, aqueducts, and lock gates. This, however, marked the end of the road for the subcom- mittee, which was subsumed by the Bombing Committee. Fortunately, its functions—picking and prioritizing targets—continued in coordination with the Air Ministry Air Ta