h DP a Me de ad Lt  Page 130 of 423 33%  ~  Political Impacts on Air Intelligence: U-Boat Raids  One thing even the 4,000-pound heavy-charge variant could not do, however, was penetrate the concrete U-boat shelters along the coast of France. Repeated attacks on the U-boat pens at Lorient, Brest, and elsewhere confirmed the invulnerability of the 11.5-foot-thick roofs. Even the best weapon then available in the American arsenal, the navy’s 1,600-pound AN-Mark 1 armor-piercing bomb, penetrated only 10.6 feet when dropped from 25,000 feet, which was too high for accurate bombing in any case. No British bombs could yet do the trick either.2= Even after the Germans doubled the thickness of their concrete pens to 23 feet, the bombing continued. Sadly, when that proved ineffective, the Allies simply decided to try to starve out the U-boat garrisons by leveling the surrounding towns, including Lorient, Brest, and St. Nazaire. Despite high civilian casualties and massive physical destruction, these extreme tactics proved utterly ineffectual.2® However, given the importance assigned to U-boat targets both before and after the combined bomber offensive directive of January 1943, bombers continued to attack these targets even after it became clear that doing so would yield no meaningful results. Harris argued ceaselessly against this wasteful diversion of bombing effort, noting that intelligence from American raids and those of his own command made clear how ineffectual these attacks were. Although Portal and the American bomber chiefs agreed, Churchill and Roosevelt did not, so the effort proceeded. Portal went so far as to raise the issue at the Casablanca conference, where he argued for bombing U-boat pens only “until an assessment of their effects” could be made. Even this made no difference; the raids continued with varying intensity until well after the Normandy invasion.  This fiasco was a clear case of bombing to influence Allied morale, in this case positively, even th