or about 35% of pre-attack production.”12  Heavy attacks during the first week of August, coupled with Rumania’s defection to the Allies, proved disastrous for German forces. With the loss of Ploesti, total output of finished products, including gasoline and aviation fuel, was 539,000 tons, only 40 percent of the preattack total. There were no Bergius plants operating, only three Fischer-Tropsch plants, and one refinery in Germany but four in Austria and three in Hungary. The weekly bulletin closed with an upbeat assessment:  — ee ee  The Allied Air Forces are now presented with an unparalleled opportunity. It is within their power, by further attacks within the next few weeks, to create conditions of stringency which might well have decisive effects on the enemy’s ability to continue the war. .. . If this aim is to be achieved it is essential that the re-attack of potentially important producers should not await confirmation that the plants have resumed activity. In the present situation no opportunity should be lost of prolonging their inactivity by renewing the attack.19  Although the Allies were not quite as close to finishing off the Reich as this analysis suggested, the German fuel situation had became disastrous.  By September, there was widespread evidence the Germans were using gasoline blended with benzol. Of twenty major benzol plants collectively producing 35,000 tons per month, sixteen were in the Ruhr and highly vulnerable to Bomber Command precision raids. Benzol raised the octane level of gasoline, allowing further blending with alcohol. This three-substance blending had become the norm at German depots. Benzol plants thus came under immediate attack.122  As oil attacks reached new levels of intensity, the Allied Expeditionary Air Force was deactivated on 15 September. Control of heavy bombers reverted from Eisenhower to Portal and Arnold, who delegated executive authority to Air Marshal Norman Bottomley, the RAF’s deputy chief of air staff, and Spaa