y were across the Seine and Loire, the Germans moved many men and supplies into Normandy this way. It took Special Air Service and Maquis teams on the ground to recognize what was happening, and the intelligence they pro- vided finally closed this targeting loophole and brought barge traffic under attack.  The committee process used for targeting was central to the entire effort. This methodology had its start in the Jockey committee, which was established in 1943 to recommend targets for the campaign against the Luftwaffe. The process matured in spring 1944 with establishment of the Railway Targets Committee and Joint Oil Targets Committee to recommend targets and release weekly prioritized target lists for this first transportation campaign and the oil offensive. These standing committees (and their successors, the CSTC’s oil, communications, and Jockey working committees) represented crucial organizational capabilities.  Railway Research Service analysts symbolized a third key strength. The ability to train the very best military analysts and photointerpreters, often drafted from civilian jobs in which they performed similar tasks, and to bring them together with the foremost civilian experts for each industry, paid huge dividends. Intelligence agencies trained specialists with high aptitudes and actively sought outside civilian expertise to assist with targeting and damage assessment.  Finally, the transportation campaigns benefited immensely from the learning process forged by Zuckerman and Tedder. This institutional maturation allowed intelligence personnel to enhance damage assessments used during successive campaigns by comparing them with captured records, POW interrogations, and testimony from workers and senior officials.  A similar process occurred during the oil offensive. As the United States Strategic Bombing Survey noted, oil experts understood that “the Germans waged World War II with oil, chemicals, rubber, and explosives made largely from coal, ai