e insured by British or American companies. Consequently, a wealth of knowledge was available, including plans, diagrams, photographs, key statistics, and the processes used at synthetic oil plants using the Bergius or Fischer-Tropsch methods. Anglo-American oil companies thus had deep knowledge and could make educated assessments about the large Bergius plants completed during the war (Briix, Pélitz, and Blechhammer North and South). Imperial Chemical Industries had built several Bergius hydrogenation plants in the United Kingdom and understood their processes and vulnerabilities. Prewar research, development, testing, and evaluation programs conducted with the Germans revealed oil plants’ technical specifications. Petroleum engineering firms also had exact figures for German crude oil reserves and the locations of oil fields. They had very precise figures on reserves and on pumping and refining capacity. Equally important, petroleum experts also knew how limited German oil reserves were in 1939, how much oil they acquired with each new annexation or conquest, and therefore what the entire oil position looked like, taking into account all production sources, including Ploesti  Interagency oil reports averaged 500 to 600 per week. Several agencies produced them, including MEW and the Lloyd committee. This committee, formed at the request of Chiefs of Staff in October 1939 under the chairmanship of Geoffrey Lloyd, secretary of mines, kept the German oil position under continuous review. Members included the directors of intelligence from all three services; representatives from the foreign office, MEW, the prime minister’s office, and the Petroleum Department; and civilian oil experts. A group of technical experts under Sir Harold Hartley collated all working materials. The Lloyd committee reported to a cabinet body known as the Hankey Committee on Preventing Oil from Reaching Germany, chaired by Lord Hankey. Its job was “to keep under review the action being taken t