s for making judgments about target status heavily reliant on photointerpretation. In fact, the document emphasized, “The value of aerial photographs depends directly on the... . training and experience... . [of] the persons making use of them.”2£ One particularly intriguing insight was the importance of aerial photographs for change detection as it applied to friendly road traffic. Overhead views of heavily traveled roads could prevent traffic jams and enable traffic dispatchers to utilize roads to the fullest extent.22 Intel- ligence specialists applied this same kind of detailed traffic analysis with lethal effect against German rail, barge, and road traffic during the Second World War.  These insights received further attention in a 1928 ACTS lesson plan with four topics: cameras, films, aerial photographs, and employment of aerial photographs. It said automatic cameras could carry rolls of film with 75 to 100 exposures each, which produced 7” x 9.5” prints of excellent quality. In addition, it was possible to deliver finished pictures in ten minutes after exposure since the film could be developed onboard the aircraft, in a miniature darkroom, and the pictures dropped in message tubes.42 More impressive was a statement that once films and lenses reached a point where they allowed for high-altitude coverage and were paired with a high-performance reconnaissance aircraft,  to protect an area or point from aerial photography will require the exclusion of aircraft from areas one hundred to one hundred and fifty miles in width. These points or areas are usually estab- lished in the vicinity of some large civil activity, such as a harbor or large industrial area. The exclusion of aircraft from such civil activities will be impracticable. We say that in the future, very few areas can be fully protected from photographic reconnaissance, and it is to be expected that files of all well organized intelligence divisions of major nations will contain photographs of all impo