n’s increasingly close interaction with MEW and other civilian intelligence agencies. As these relationships strengthened in 1940-1941, they resulted in an increasingly capable air intelligence organization coordinating, producing, and disseminating damage assessments.*®  By the time the RAF engaged in its first concerted bombing campaigns, against barge traffic and the Ruhr, the PDU and PIU had developed to the point where preattack and poststrike photos, and relatively comprehensive damage assessments, gradually became the norm. By August 1940, the PDU had twenty Spitfires, which permitted provision of poststrike photos for most bombing raids.4% Also fortuitous was greater cooperation between the Air Ministry and MEW. The result was an increasingly fruitful relationship in which MEW brought to bear its many economic intelligence sources and, in cooperation with the PIU, began producing outstanding third-phase reports.  Calling on the Specialists: Interagency Developments  The process had its start in the recognition among air staff officers that they could not go it alone. The result was a new Air Ministry office, A.1.3(B), in April 1940 (renamed A.I.3(c)2 in November 1942), charged with tracking bombing results. At the same time, PIU began producing Air Ministry damage assessments, which the air staff shared with all interested parties. Although the Air Ministry produced raid assessment summaries until the end of the war, they became “executive summaries” of the entire bombing effort. These general overviews lacked the detail contained in MEW and PIU reports (from which they drew their content) and thus served different purposes.*2  In the meantime, officers working in A.I.3(B) realized it was in everyone's best interest to coordinate tasks and products with MEW. This resulted in the creation of the German Bomb Target Information Committee, chaired by A.1.3(B) and including representatives from the Air Ministry Plans and Intelligence Directorates and MEW. This de