sian attack started. To the best of my knowledge tanks were not utilized again [in large quantities] in battle. .. . In this sense one can say that your attacks in the chemical sector [synthetic oil plants] have considerably influenced the defense against this offensive. ... The quick breakthrough came only because of insufficient supplies of fuel. The quick loss of Upper Silesia, which was practically the last push to break the neck of the entire armament industry was therefore caused through the attacks on the hydrogenation plants.*2  POL AL nae a LD en Le dn ee 8 ee dee nk eee Aa A 2 tee Leek 1 2 ne et ne den ne tS nee el ie Van ee nna oat cel VALI Face ne ata 18 dane one  Page 309 of 423 72%  ee eee ee eo eee a ee eee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee eee Eee eS—e—e—eEeEeeEeEEeEee——eEEE—— EE a a rebuild their fuel stocks, as they had done in previous lulls in the fighting, because bombing had destroyed too much fuel-production capacity. In addition, Hitler’s decision to launch the Ardennes offensive meant even less fuel went to replenish supplies in the east.*2 Efforts to counter the Red Army’s advance were stymied by fuel shortages, which manifested themselves in the much-reduced fuel increments available to heavy divisions by 1945.  Until summer 1944, the normal fuel issue to an armored division was 5 consumption units (enough to move it 310 miles over paved roads in good weather). In practice, however, this could move a division at most 200 miles in good weather over open terrain and on back roads. When weather and road conditions worsened, a division might cover as little as 125 miles.** Units received fuel allotments monthly until late summer 1944, at which point bombing-induced shortages led to the issuance of fuel quotas every ten days, then every five. Army units lived hand to mouth on these small and unreliable allotments. Given the tempo of oil attacks, fuel allocations dropped in fall 1944 from 5 consumption units to 2 or 3 for heavy divisions.*2 Tank