ry contained 6.5 million prints stored on 2.5 miles of shelves. The Photographic Section handled 60,000 tins of film per month and had several multiprinters capable of producing 1,000 photos per hour. Although the ACIU had not yet grown so large in 1943, it was essentially mature and capable of providing reports to hundreds of customers within hours. These reports provided a foundation for detailed third-phase damage assessments produced at RE8 and MEW. By summer 1943, the ACIU was mature and able to determine bombing effects and effective- ness, which were intensifying rapidly with the arrival of American heavy bombers.  USAAF Raids on Aircraft Factories and Ball-Bearing Plants  From summer 1943 to spring 1944, USAAF heavy bombers and fighter escorts (once they received drop tanks in January 1944) took the air war to the Luftwaffe in an effort to gain air supremacy over the Reich. The battle was long and costly, and at times it teetered on the edge of failure. But the Americans gained the victory and with it air supremacy not only over the Reich, but also over Normandy. During this huge battle of attrition, intelligence specialists honed their analytical skills by assessing damage to aircraft factories, ball-bearing plants, marshaling yards, and oil plants.  The progress of this offensive against aircraft factories and ball-bearing plants during summer and fall 1943 is recounted in many scholarly works. Although unescorted raids resulted in high losses, they also demonstrated that USAAF aircrews could bomb with remarkable accuracy in good weather. When combined with Bomber Command’s efforts, these American raids, though not yet capable of doing overwhelming damage, nonetheless served as clear notice of things to come.  The USAAF’s increasing accuracy resulted from intensive training for bombardiers, navigators, and pilots; from outstanding target materials, including aiming point reports produced by the EOU at the American embassy in London; target vulnerability no