stroy the Minden  +. Seat + ae stow nn hae 7 co + oom an (07  Page 303 of 423 71%  Despite these unfolding issues, there was already more bad news in store for the Germans. Although H2X was insufficiently accurate for bombing the Ruhr’s railroads and canals, Gee-H beacon stations were now operational on the Continent, allowing accurate bombing of Ruhr targets in nonvisual conditions.22 Although Gee-H was not perfect, it allowed bombers to put adequate numbers of bombs on target often enough to cause serious damage to rail centers and consequent delays in the movement of fuel, ammunition, and reinforcements. It also disrupted the flow of component parts from dispersed factories to central assembly points and played havoc with the movement of coal from mine to factory. Finally, as operational employment of H2X increased rapidly after January 1944, it led to much higher Luftwaffe loss rates as undertrained pilots were forced to engage bombers in bad weather with unreliable aircraft.22  On 7 November, the CSTC Working Committee (Communications) unveiled its plan for attacks on German transportation assets. It was designed to assist ground operations against the Wehrmacht and diminish war production by interfering with economic traffic. This plan was not all that Tedder wanted, but it did include concerted attacks on coal shipments. Because Bottomley and Spaatz decided, in view of dramatically successful oil attacks, to make transportation second priority, the CSTC’s recommendation was to attack marshaling yards when weather conditions did not permit oil raids. The CSTC also noted that oil attacks on the Ruhr were complementary because they also damaged railroads, roads, canals, and the natural gas grid feeding industries. The same was true of Har- ris’s second Ruhr offensive, a fact often overlooked by those claiming Bomber Command was simply “making the rubble bounce.” British bombers were, in fact, doing much more than that.24  The CSTC plan was built on lessons learn