d the Americans would do most of the work in attacking precision target sets and destroying the Luftwaffe. The British did engage targets within the high-priority target sets during 1943, but for the most part incidentally as they went after cities.  This was, of course, part and parcel not only of Harris’s approach to the problem, but also of the CCS guidance, which effectively assigned precision missions to the USAAF and city bombing to Bomber Command—an eminently reasonable division of labor at the time. Harris was not defying the CCS. In fact, he did exactly what they directed.  Although Harris’s determination to achieve decisive results through city bombing may appear questionable in hindsight, his reasons for eschewing panacea targets were sound in spring 1943. As we have seen, the huge number of ever-shifting and unachievable bombing directives implemented in 1940-1942, combined with the dispersion of the bomber force in small attack packages, proved utterly ineffective. Harris believed that even with his much more powerful bomber force and his crews’ vastly increased tactical acumen, he still lacked the means to engage point targets. And he was right—at this point in time. If Harris deserves criticism, it is for his continued insistence that panacea targets were not worthwhile and that his crews could not hit them even in the face of increasing evidence to the contrary.  Harris remained wedded to city bombing until the closing weeks of the war. This was perhaps because Harris did not receive full access to Ultra decrypts until either June or August 1944—a serious mistake on the part of his intelligence director (the only Bomber Command officer read in prior to 1944) and Portal at the Air Ministry. Sir Arthur Bonsall, a Bletchley Park analyst, said of his reports on German night air defenses, “Bomber Command [was] not entitled to ULTRA, so reports could not be distributed to the only authority that really needed them.” In fact, Harris’s disdain for “the cleve