2  Ludlow-Hewitt’s comments lit a fire under the Air Ministry, which issued a memo entitled “Photographic tasks for which the Squadrons of the Royal Air Force are to be trained.” It levied a require- ment on flying units and HQ Bomber Command to do essentially as Ludlow-Hewitt had recommended.*® Accordingly, the Air Ministry began major efforts to develop reconnaissance capabilities in 1936. Given the limited time remaining before the start of the war, few new capabilities were in place by September 1939. However, efforts begun in 1936 laid the groundwork for many later successes. By March 1938, the Air Ministry had responded to Ludlow-Hewitt’s calls for specialized reconnaissance aircraft, cameras to be mounted in bombers for strike photographs, and the training of photoin- terpreters to study aerial photos. The first step in this process would be to obtain photographic coverage of German targets.44  Photointelligence: Special Intelligence Service Flight and the Cotton Organization  This effort ran into two problems: signed agreements between Great Britain and Germany preventing aerial reconnaissance of one another’s territory, and the lack of an aircraft capable of flying covert, long-distance missions over Germany. The Air Ministry’s answer was to defer to SIS (MI6), which acquired intelligence by means of espionage. Wing Commander F. W. Winterbotham, commander of SIS Air Section, established a new unit, SIS Flight, in November 1938. To lead it, he hired an enterprising Australian named Sidney Cotton, whose work had a major influence on the development of photoreconnaissance and photointerpretation and, by extension, effective damage-assessment capabilities. Cotton, a Royal Naval Air Service flying officer from the Great War and a highly successful pilot and entrepreneur, agreed in fall 1938 to set up a front company, the Aeronautical Research and Sales Corporation. Winterbotham and Cotton, working with the French Deuxiéme Bureau de lArmée de l’Air, purchased fou