ious toll. “Allied attacks against German oil resources,” he noted, “have caused considerable damage and the present production of fuel has fallen to about 50%.”22 In August, he quoted the German liaison officer to the Japanese embassy, who said, with surprising candor, “I fear that if raids of this kind are allowed to continue, Germany’s capacity to prosecute the war will be very seriously affected.” The attaché further noted that if attacks continued, oil stocks would be depleted by mid-February.*4 A month later, he said that the Germans were beginning to run out of fuel.®=  Postwar interrogations of German leaders further corroborated damage reports and Ultra decrypts. One such interrogation confirmed that monthly receipts of aviation fuel fell from 150,000 tons in May 1944 to 52,000 in June and 7,000 tons in September. A slight recovery, to 18,700 tons in October and 39,200 in November, did not allow anything even remotely approaching full employment of available aircraft. Fuel was in even shorter supply than pilots. Aviation fuel reserves also plummeted, with Oberkommando der Wehrmacht stocks falling from 107,000 tons to 30,000 by November.  Page 266 of 423 63%  FOWEIM 5 Iloleiits dUOUL LIE LOE OF Ultid AL© dlsO IMEIUMY oletiicalit, WUICaliils VOUT Ils CEL Aallly AllG, PaAlLdCOAvlCdlly, LIE ADIUILY LO Pldll all CACCULE VOTIVE OPEallOls WittlOUL IL.  Certainly no other form of intelligence was as dramatic as ULTRA in terms of shaping strategy, resulting in saving tens of thousands of lives. I think, even if there had been no ULTRA, that with aerial reconnaissance, primarily, plus the work of scholars and economists, we should have identified target systems in Germany. It may have taken us longer—but in the end we would have des- troyed the German economy.”  Indeed, much of this work has focused on the extent to which these other sources allowed the air intelligence organization to develop a deep knowledge of Germany’s oil, transportation, and other assets almost