s too small. In early 1944, Brigadier General George C. McDonald, director of intelligence (A-2) for the newly formed United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe, commanded by General Spaatz, asked Spaatz to meet with the British and develop a more responsive tasking and dissemination system for reconnaissance, photointerpretation, and product dissemination. Just before this, Air Vice Marshal Inglis, the Air Ministry’s assistant chief of air staff for intelligence, had written Spaatz on the same subject, advocating improvements. Spaatz concurred, and Inglis replied enthusiastically.22  When Spaatz met with McDonald and Air Commodore Grant (Inglis’s action officer), he noted that he wanted each American numbered air force to be self-contained in all phases of photography, photointerpretation, preparation of target folders, and weather reconnaissance. Spaatz said the immediate photointerpretation done at flying units was crucial because it allowed for effective planning of the following day’s sorties. Nonetheless, he stated explicitly that improvements at the numbered air forces and flying units would be made without removing Americans from the ACIU or any other Anglo-American operation focused on production and dissemination of damage reports. This combined effort, vital to Allied bombing, continued to flourish.2+  After his meeting with Spaatz, Grant proposed to Inglis and to Group Captain F. C. V. Laws, deputy director of photography, that the Mediterranean Allied Photographic Reconnaissance Center, already highly successful, be the JPRC’s model. He also suggested the Americans, now with substantial assets in theater, have an equal share in tasking authority for reconnaissance assets. Finally, he recommended that a board of army, navy, and air force officers from each country reside at the JPRC to receive collection requests and assign priorities. The JPRC became active in May 1944. It worked closely with No. 106 Group, which controlled all British PRUs and the AC