veloped during OVERLORD and the subsequent breakout and pursuit. Similar synergies developed as the oil offensive intensified and transportation attacks began in earnest by fall 1944. One example was the effect on the production and distribution of fuel and ammunition. The oil offensive destroyed synthetic oil plants, robbing the Germans not only of fuel, but also of explosives and propellants. The cumbersome manufacturing process in which ammunition components such as shell casings, fuses, explosives, and propellants were produced in different areas and then shipped to over 100 army ordnance depots for final assembly was also seriously disrupted. In short, the combined effects of the oil and transportation offensives produced a catastrophic drop in both ammunition production and deliveries.2  Map 16 Greater German lransport Stettin tn a Net  Vawe Be satiie)  ; @ Minster oy  \.“e*  on - 3 V\_ / Odssehior ra  ( oJ \\BELGIUM , 1 Cp coos ™ : “ eae Leiptig Brestau %  mal i. -\cmwice =6©®~=—SW POLAND  4 GERMANY  erational- tactical focus for them) or oil raids, caused constant friction. The institutional preference for oil was the third issue affecting the degree of effort and focus brought to transportation attacks. The fourth was Harris’s continuing city bombing, which represented an increasingly contested use of bombers. Most senior commanders and advisors saw oil attacks as the best means for undermin- ing the German war effort and ending the war quickly.  The most notable exceptions were Tedder and Zuckerman, who believed a concerted attack on railroads and inland waterways promised a rapid collapse of Germany’s war economy and thus of the Wehrmacht. Oil proponents, including Spaatz, Bottomley, Portal, Bufton, and Maxwell, won the argument. It would, however, be a serious error to dichotomize this problem. Oil’s primacy did not drive reductions in transportation attacks. In fact, as the weather worsened in fall 1944, transportation targets received a much greater sh