r. Reconnaissance aircraft discovered them near Nevers, Bruges, and Poitiers, moving northeast mostly on foot. Four 8th Air Force fighter groups began strafing operations, and from there, the disaster befalling this forlorn column was complete. Those who survived were almost all captured when American columns cut them off. Most of these 100,000 soldiers were walking, not riding trains or trucks, providing further proof the transportation campaign had destroyed the French railroad network and run the German army out of gasoline. The railroads, already a complete shambles, were incapable of transporting these soldiers. They had a 450-mile walk ahead of them to reach the German frontier. The “traffic desert” (Verkehrs Wiiste), as von Rundstedt called it, created by the bombing of marshaling yards, bridges, and canals thus cost the Germans another 90,000 troops who spent the rest of the war in POW camps rather than fighting on for Reich and Fiihrer.442  The Traffic Desert  By September, the third and final RRS report said, intelligence personnel saw “the final petering out of German formation movements on the S.N.C.F. and Belgian State Railways... the study of which has been undertaken by this Service ever since adequate information became available towards the close of 1941.”44 This confirmed not only the demise of organized rail movement, but also the usefulness of the intensive RRS analysis of French and Belgian railroads for nearly three years before the transportation offensive. The agency understood the SNCF’s strengths and weaknesses, influ- encing how the Allies planned and executed this decisive campaign. Superb reconnaissance photos, as well as ACIU K and F damage assessments, made the jobs of RRS analysts much easier.  Only 294 trains moved during August 1944, down from 535 in June and 395 in July. Nearly complete paralysis of the railroads had set in, with troop delays, detours, and high threat of night and fighter-bomber attacks the rule. Continuing raids o