tion sources, including Ploesti.®  Interagency oil reports averaged 500 to 600 per week. Several agencies produced them, including MEW and the Lloyd committee. This committee, formed at the request of Chiefs of Staff in October 1939 under the chairmanship of Geoffrey Lloyd, secretary of mines, kept the German oil position under continuous review. Members included the directors of intelligence from all three services; representatives from the foreign office, MEW, the prime minister’s office, and the Petroleum Department; and civilian oil experts. A group of technical experts under Sir Harold Hartley collated all working materials. The Lloyd committee reported to a cabinet body known as the Hankey Committee on Preventing Oil from Reaching Germany, chaired by Lord Hankey. Its job was “to keep under review the action being taken to prevent oil supplies from reaching enemy powers and the organization required for this purpose,” a thankless task given Britain’s inability to stop Rumanian and (before 22 June 1941) Russian supplies from reaching Germany. In March 1942, the Hankey and Lloyd committees were disbanded. Sir Harold Hartley’s technical experts and analysts were placed under the Joint Intelligence Subcommittee and renamed the Technical Subcommittee on Axis Oil.  The Technical Subcommittee on Axis Oil produced outstanding assessments, a fact confirmed by Ultra intercepts (German oil plant managers used Ultra to communicate, especially once bombing restricted other means) and after the war by captured documents and interrogations of oil plant managers and other officials. These assessments of production and reserves were almost always within 5 percentage points of actual capacity and often within 1 or 2 percentage points. The subcommittee used many intelligence sources, among the most useful of which were cables between oil plants and Reich offices concerned with oil matters.  As it became available in increasing quantities, photoreconnaissance provided vital insigh