effective, did make some progress. Beyond the question of training to drop bombs, which occurred infrequently at the RAF bombing range at Orfordness, two key studies based on bombing accuracy during training flights should have gotten the Air Ministry’s attention. The first, from 1924, said high-altitude bombing would be impossible on most days over the skies of Europe, while on others it could be carried through effectively by waiting for clouds to clear directly over the target. Similarly, the second study, completed in 1927, said high-altitude bombing under ideal conditions would score hits with no more than 10 percent of bombs dropped on targets less than 200 yards in diameter, with “very much worse results” in poor visibility. It also concluded that high-altitude bombing of rail centers (very large targets) was “practically useless” given these problems.© These studies fell on deaf ears. The British would have to learn about the difficulties of high-altitude precision daylight bombing, and for that matter night area and precision bombing, quite literally on the fly.  This lack of attention to bombing began to change once the Nazis came to power, and it is to the period after January 1933 that we must now turn to see how this influenced the development of air intelligence-related technologies, techniques, technicians, and organizational innovations.  FIVE  THE PACE QUICKENS  Air Intolliconro Novolanmonts in tho T ato Intorwar Dorind 1922-1041  Page 59 of 423 16%  over the target, their observers or bombardiers signaled the ground. At the same time, an onboard camera took photographs to be compared with ground observer reports and photos taken earlier establishing the true position of aircraft over the target. By comparing photographs, the timing of aircraft signaling, and ground observer reports, airmen could determine drift and range errors. The key was to train the aircrew to recognize such errors and correct for them—and, more importantly, find a bombsight th