eady doing, Harris found a middle way as well as the opening required to contribute directly to the preinvasion effort while pursuing his city campaign.22  Portal made several comments at critical junctures in the meeting that helped lay the groundwork for the combined transportation-oil-bridges plan that ultimately emerged. He said that the oil plan had great potential, and he asked Mr. Lawrence of MEW to clarify just how the plan would assist both preinvasion and postinvasion efforts. Mr. Lawrence replied that although it would likely not have an immediate impact in the Normandy battle area, it would most certainly have a widespread effect within about three months. This, Portal said, showed conclusively that although the oil offensive could not have the desired effects in support of OVERLORD, it could well be of great significance later and should therefore receive very careful attention. Eisenhower agreed.2+  (A cain tie as: “ane  Adaptability or Intransigence? Senior Officers and Intelligence  Page 208 of 423 51%  Spaatz’s second major error was to avoid mentioning that his plan in fact had another key component: the EOU proposal for attacks on bridges, road and rail junctions, and supply dumps—especially fuel and ammunition depots. Spaatz’s reasoning for choosing to forego support of this plan—and associated attacks that proved vital in combination with transportation and oil attacks—is not some- thing he put on paper.®2  However, Rostow, then of the EOU, gleaned several reasons from discussions he and the rest of the team had with Spaatz. First, despite the compelling nature of the intelligence backing attacks on bridges and key junctions, Spaatz thought bringing this up could swing the argument in his favor but at the cost of damaging the close working and personal relationships he had developed with Eisenhower, Tedder, and Zuckerman. Most important was his determination to stay loyal to Eisenhower, even if this meant working his oil and bridge agendas throu