ers for incendiary raids, on a massive scale, against cities, which he saw as the engines driving the Reich’s war economy.  To give aircrews the tools required to make this vision an operational reality, Portal set RAF officers and scientists to devising new tactics and technologies. The development of Pathfinder Force was vital. So, too, were marker beacons. By October, the air staff had initiated development of radio and pyrotechnic marker beacons. Concerns about countermeasures forestalled the first option, but development of colored flares with increased burn times proceeded rapidly. By 1942, burn times were up from three to seven minutes, giving Pathfinders the tool they needed to light the way for the main body.22  Air Intelligence Supports the Shift to City Bombing  Intelligence supporting the new bombing doctrine was also evolving by 1942. The most fundamental variety—good photographic cover for targeting and damage-assessment purposes—was already in place. With each sortie covering 3,000 square miles, and with as many as thirty sorties per day photographing the Reich, fairly complete coverage was not long in coming. By September 1941, PRU1 had thirty-seven Spitfires and two Mosquitoes attached. The former were capable of housing at most a camera with a 20” lens in their fuselage, but the latter could carry 40” lenses. This proved  Page 115 of 423 30%  that it will be a heavy and I trust a seriously increasing annoyance.”** The COS weighed in with an argument that the weakest point in the German war machine was morale.“ Portal also reminded Churchill of the COS statement that  it is in bombing, ona scale undreamed of in the last war, that we find the new weapon on which we must principally depend for the destruction of economic life and morale. ... After meeting the needs of our own security, therefore, we give to the heavy bomber fleet first priority in production, for only the heavy bomber can produce the conditions under which other offensive forces can b