izations established a formal liaison function between Squadron Leader Dewdney of RE8 and Squadron Leader Tilling of the CIU. Together, they developed procedures for effective coordination and worked with their Bomber Command counterparts to establish damage-assessment methodologies.  The impetus for this effort had its origins in Bomber Command’s concern that there was no clear method for determining damage to German cities or compiling this information. To address this, Int. 1 worked with the CIU, RE8, and MEW to develop damage dossiers for German cities. These files provided a summary of damage to date, rate of recovery, and the relative value of attacks in terms of damage to the enemy’s war effort. The object was to use cumulative damage assessments in these dossiers to make decisions about future attacks and aim points for each target. The dossiers facilitated rapid assessment of the relative value of each target, on the basis of current damage level, in comparison with those of other cities, which allowed airmen to determine which targets should have pri- ority for the next round of attacks.©  The dossiers consisted of an analysis of bombers used in each raid, the bomb load carried, and the “effective” percentage of bomb load (that actually falling on the target). They also contained a keyed damage plot showing damage distribution in industrial and residential areas, with individual assessments for the most important factories. Domestic damage, including estimated numbers of civilians killed, wounded, and dehoused, was also included in the dossiers, as were graphs showing the drop in output of various types of industry and estimated recovery rates. A so-called strategical index showed the town’s assessed value based on a key point rating expressed as a fraction of Germany’s assessed total war effort. This included a running tally of the drop in the town’s value due to attacks and its subsequent rise as repair efforts progressed. This strategical index thus com