effective.*+  Analyzing and Exploiting the German Fuel-Distribution Process  These attacks also profited from an increasingly sophisticated understanding of the German fuel-distribution system, allowing analysts to locate each depot, assign it a target priority, and lay on attacks by 8th Air Force heavies or 9th Air Force medium bombers. The process of locating depots and piecing together the administrative structure within which they operated was complete by 1944. All operations were handled by the Wirtschaftliche Forschungs G.m.b.H. (Economic Research Co.), known by its German acronym, WIFO. This organization controlled Wehrmacht fuel supplies. There were eleven main depots (Hauptlager), nine confirmed by reconnaissance cover, where blending of fuel and additives such as benzol and alcohol occurred before shipping. The WIFO infrastructure also included eight transit depots (Umschlaglager)—rail loading points for fuel moving on the Elbe and Danube. Army command depots (Nachshublager) were also important. WIFO employees here filled drums for movement to field depots. Photoreconnaissance confirmed nine of these depots. Army personnel ran field depots below this level.22  With this intelligence in hand, bomber crews attacked most of the depots, in several cases causing severe damage. Nienburg, an exceptionally well-camouflaged WIFO underground aviation fuel- storage depot, v was Senet on 5 August by 176 8th Air Force eheavy bombers, dropping 1,330 1, 000- “pound bombs “with very satisfactory results.” These se large weapons proved effective against buried  See eea ie ie gett aL 2 ON te re an Sar) ge a a a a ne — arr wpe eee ee ee ee ee  Page 266 of 423 63%  assets almost entirely independent of Ultra intercepts. The latter became central once the air campaigns began, but even then, Ultra was always most effective when used in coordination with other sources. Wing Commander John Stubbington recently noted that even Ultra on occasion misled Allied intelligence specialis