ce to Allied ground forces on all the fighting fronts, whether in western Europe, Italy, or Russia. The COS proved prescient, but a prolonged and costly battle for air supremacy over the Reich stood between them and their vision for the Allied bomber offensive.  In the meantime, the first clear indication that British precision bomb damage assessment and American precision bombing would make a good match came with the first USAAF bombing raid, to the Sotteville marshaling yard in Rouen, on 17 August 1942. A small force of twelve B-17s of the 97th Bomb Group, escorted by Spitfires, put their bombs squarely on the target. The CIU K Section dam- age report for this raid summarized it as follows:  This sortie shows that, as a result of very accurate bombing, the main marshaling yards, two Transshipment Sheds between the Up and Down Sorting Sidings, and two factories, which most probably form part of the Repair Shops, have been severely damaged. Numerous wagons are seen to be damaged and derailed and there is little doubt that very considerable dislocation of work-  Page 135 of 423 35%  Ubsliss PrecgecessOl do dsolotalit Cillel OL all stall LOL IMLEMIBETICE) AEICEU LO PLOVIOE Vor Mea Guarlers allt TYIIE Uliits WILL All all ITILEIUIECTICE LERALCIIE ULE CLICIILY, UICIUCIIIE LALECL TlALeridls and damage assessments. The first group of American officers arrived in April 1942. When Colonel Bacon, 8th Air Force A-2, established his offices at London in May 1942, he assigned one of these officers, Major Kingman Douglass, to the Air Ministry as his liaison officer. Others followed shortly, taking jobs alongside their British hosts in A.I.3(c), which produced target materials, A.I.3(c)2, which produced executive-level bomb damage assessment, and A.I.3(U.S.A.), the Air Ministry office responsible for ensuring the efficient supply and distribution of all intelligence material and reports to USAAF headquarters and flying units. A.I.3(U.S.A.) conducted direct liaison with the CIU and