gence personnel a deep knowledge of the German war economy and its vulnerabilities, and they drove further changes in the air intelligence process.  Garraral nf thaca chancac craur ait af a Law maatinea at tha Air Minictriy in Dahriartiy 10/41 tn datarmina tha hact 1100 af aarial nhatne far acecaceina hamh damacaa Air Vira Marchal Dacl tha accictant  Page 95 of 423 25%  Although most of them provided baseline targeting knowledge of economic facilities, an increasing number were damage-assessment photographs.##  In March 1941, to maximize the effectiveness of collection and analysis, Tuttle and Riddell called for the immediate formation of a Controlling Section, composed of a field-grade officer from each service, to ensure a rapid turnaround for all reconnaissance requirements. The Air Ministry approved, and the resulting incorporation of army and navy officers into the Duty Section improved the CIU’s efficiency tremendously and prefigured the formation of the Joint Photographic Reconnaissance Center, a joint requirements and collection management unit that directed photoreconnaissance and photointerpretation operations from May 1944 to VE Day. Finally, Tuttle and Riddell pushed hard for Air Ministry operational control of the CIU and PRUs, rather than their continued subordin- ation to Coastal Command. With the invasion threat less severe and the bombing offensive against Germany picking up steam, they believed only the Air Ministry Directorate of Intelligence could be an impartial master. “It is proposed,” they said,  that Interpretation shall become a part of intelligence, and shall take its place as the hand-maiden of the latter. Interpretation will never be of full use until it is part of the intelligence organisa- tion which it serves and by which, by direct contact, it is supplied with information. ... Control of this organisation would be vested in the Air Ministry under the Directorate of Intelligence. ... Until this, or some other similar scheme is fulfill