o gather more information and revalidate Cabell’s data. Hutchison visited the CIU’s training school at RAF Nuneham Common, adjacent to the CIU at RAF Medmenham. Primary training lasted four weeks with classes ranging from twenty-five to thirty students each. Three instructors taught students how to identify a wide array of objects on aerial photographs. In addition, students learned map reading, plotting, determination of scale on aerial photographs, and report writing. The British also believed selection of students with the right qualities was more important than the training itself. These included an eye for detail and patterns, an ability to see in stereo, at least 20/20 vision with no astigmatism, and analytical creativity allowing them to determine interrelationships between objects. Hutchison, who saw the great value in this process, re- quested copy negatives of all CIU training photos and associated intelligence reports for a starter kit once USAAF leaders established an American photointerpreters’ school. The Air Ministry agreed and offered to send their school’s director, Flight Lieutenant Stephenson, and two assistants to help establish a similar school in the United States and teach the first few courses. Hutchison recommended the USAAF establish an aerial interpretation school immediately, request the services of Flight Lieutenant Stephenson and the two other RAF officers, and have the new school up and running by 1 February 1942. Arnold and Scanlon approved and established the Army Air Forces Air Intelligence School on 16 February 1942 at College Park, Maryland. The school moved to Harrisburg, Pennsylva- nia, in April 1942, and in 1944 became the Intelligence Division, School of Applied Tactics, in Orlando, Florida.*%  Hutchison also reconfirmed the value of the PRUs and CIU, saying Air Vice Marshal Fred Inglis, the Air Ministry’s assistant chief of air staff (intelligence), estimated over 80 percent of RAF intelligence came from aerial photographs. H