sion fire for effect and... at the  Page 14 of 423 5%  Vuring the war's first year, DOMoINng COnsisted larpeiy Of uncoordinated, OPportulustic attacks Dy alfCrews lying reconnaissance missions. 1 hese Consisted Of 1ODdINg a grenade OF modified artery projectile over the side of the aircraft in an effort to hit something. By November, reconnaissance aircraft carried one or more small bombs to attack targets of opportunity. However, the absence of purpose-built bombers, aircrew navigational skills, effective bombsights, and reliable munitions meant bombing evolved through a series of ad hoc expedients, without any damage-assessment capability beyond what the pilot or observer managed to see over his shoulder. Only in November 1917 did British bomb squadrons begin receiving cameras, photographic sections, and intelligence sections to interpret strike and poststrike photographs.*  Although no true intellectual infrastructure existed before 1917, rudimentary capabilities began emerging almost immediately. The first serious effort to produce damage assessments occurred in the RNAS in late 1914. Raids on the zeppelin factory at Friedrichshafen, zeppelin sheds at Diisseldorf and Cologne, and German naval bases in Belgium made clear the necessity for developing means for assessing bombing effects. The RNAS thus developed a small intelligence section responsible for producing raid reports and assessments of cumulative damage for periods ranging from one to eight months. These assessments relied almost entirely on aircrew and agent reports and on German and neutral-country newspaper articles. There were no cameras aboard aircraft at this stage, nor were there dedicated reconnaissance sorties for these raids, so neither strike photographs nor poststrike cover existed.* For the most part, available sources were sketchy and inaccurate; but there were exceptions, such as the destruction of a zeppelin and its shed at Diisseldorf on 8 October 1914. In this case, reliable agents’ rep