JOTC bulletin published at the beginning of October noted, “abundant and increasing evidence that this low level of [fuel] production is causing a crip- pling restriction of enemy’s operational activities. Desperate picture of the situation is reflected in the exceptional repair measures adopted by the enemy. It is estimated that in the absence of further attack these measures will almost double output in October raising it to 42% of pre attack.”11! By this time, Speer had put Edmund Geilenberg in charge of repairs and given him 300,000 laborers. The importance Speer and Hitler attached to Geilenberg’s mission became clear in the Fiihrer’s proclamation of 30 May 1944, making Geilenberg “Plenipotentiary General for Immediate Action” to repair oil plants and giving him authority to take all necessary measures, including curtailing other industries. After the war, Speer revealed that Geilenberg’s efforts usually allowed the resumption of small-scale production at oil plants, amounting to ten to fourteen days’ normal production, before the next round of raids. Intelligence analysts missed this.  The CSTC: Refining Targeting and Damage Assessment  Bottomley and Spaatz were concerned about a resurgence of production, but they had the advantage of knowing where the Reich’s oil position stood from week to week and expert advisory bodies to help them make the right targeting decisions. In fact, they were also determining how best to bring together intelligence for all high-value targets under a single advisory body, deciding to combine the functions of the Railway Targets Committee, the JOTC, and the Jockey Committee (formed in 1943 to make targeting recommendations for the attack on the Luftwaffe). This new committee must have the expertise to monitor damage reports and build weekly target lists. In a memo to Spaatz, Bottomley set forth his vision:  I feel that one of the first things we must put on a sound footing is the advice we get as to target priorities in the various