rom air attack but more vulnerable to SAS and Maquis attacks. This dispersal gave the SAS and Maquis a target-rich environment; they frequently picked off small and easily attacked truck convoys, fuel trains, fuel dumps, and barges. The transportation campaign thus created conditions in which night bombers, fighter-bombers, and SAS teams destroyed fuel stocks faster than the Germans could replace them from current production, which was plummeting by July as a result of the oil campaign. Yet even as the SAS helped solve one major problem, another was mak- ing itself felt.  Page 230 of 423 56%  UN 22 jUly, ofAo Teas sabotaged a Number OF 10CKS along The oeine niver Caflal system. ifeir recent discovery that the Germans were using Canais Dy fignt CO move troops alid suppiles into Normandy resulted not only in SAS actions such as this one, but also in belated bombing of canal locks and other infrastructure, with SAS teams advising airmen when barges were fully loaded and hence lucrative targets. Eyes on the ground allowed intelligence personnel to focus on an important target set they had missed altogether in preinvasion analyses.  Two days later, SAS teams were attacking fuel trains and depots; in this case, they destroyed 224,500 gallons of gasoline at a depot in the Pas de Calais. On 27 July, they destroyed a train carrying 158,500 gallons of gasoline, blocking the railroad tunnel where it had sheltered from fighterbombers. The Germans had begun hiding fuel trains in this fashion, making them safe from air attack, but not from the SAS and Maquis, who went after them relentlessly. The same day, the Maquis annihilated a column of 116 supply trucks in the Saéne-Loire department. In addition, SAS teams destroyed more canal locks on the Seine, holding up fuel shipments to the front; and the Maquis destroyed several barges carrying 100,000 gallons of fuel on the Niévres River near its confluence with the Loire. Smaller attacks destroyed another 264,100 gallons of fuel. Tak