ting opinion, and the formation of anew CSTC Working Committee (Communications) to address issues surrounding transportation attacks.  Tedder and Zuckerman knew such attacks in France and Belgium had already produced a ripple effect on coal and steel production in the Ruhr. Because raids on marshaling yards in western Germany had caused severe damage, coal stocks at the mines had increased by 400 to 500 percent. Furthermore, bad weather in September and October meant transportation targets, which on paper had sec- ond priority after oil, actually received two-thirds of total bomb tonnage. The result was a major coal famine throughout the Reich.  Mierzejewski, who properly noted these disastrous effects on transportation and therefore on the movement of coal, was thus incorrect when he asserted, “The power of the forces at their disposal by the spring of 1944 was not understood by the Allied bomber commanders. .. . They fought to concentrate their forces against a limited number of target systems and objectives. In doing so they underestimated what their forces could do.”24 Actually, Allied airmen clearly understood the power at their disposal and deployed it with determination against the two target sets they knew to be at the heart of the German war effort: transportation and oil.  Mierzejewski’s argument struck closer to home with his statement that intelligence on the German war economy was abundant but of varying quality. Although it was quite good on the whole, infighting among the various parties, together with the constantly shifting priorities they gave bombers from fall 1944 to VE Day, once again limited its effectiveness. “The crucial factor,” he said, “in determining exploitation of this intelligence was not its content but the preconceived notion brought to it by the analysts and the ability of intelligence organizations to function effectively in the highly bureaucratic-political environment surrounding the air decision makers.”}+ Despite this statement