evere supply shortages. The Germans in Italy had been fortunate to defend a mountainous peninsula ill-suited to effective air attack. Their comrades in France would not be so lucky.  The Spaatz/EOU Oil Plan  Spaatz’s plan, which his staff developed in just thirty-six hours, called for an all-out attack on oil production to immobilize the Wehrmacht. At Spaatz’s request, EOU also planned attacks on bridges over the Seine and Loire rivers to delay troops and supplies, a supplemental plan Spaatz chose not to argue at the 25 March 1944 meeting. Spaatz gave his staff three requirements: provide air supremacy for the invasion; speed the possible collapse of Germany before an invasion; and, if Germany did not collapse, provide maximum support for OvVERLORD.?® Spaatz said his advocacy of the oil option did not imply that attacks on transportation assets should not play a strong part in isolating the battle area. He emphasized in private discussions that bridge attacks would address this issue. Spaatz also noted that Germany’s fourteen largest synthetic oil plants comprised 80 percent of synthetic oil and fuel production. His plan called for attacks on these and the thirteen largest crude oil refineries, which accounted for 60 percent of refining capacity. Spaatz said transportation attacks would not affect the course of the initial battle but oil attacks would; that transportation raids would not bring out the Luftwaffe, but that “they will defend oil to their last fighter plane”; and that oil attacks would weaken the Wehrmacht on all fronts simultaneously. To drive home his point, Spaatz included Wehrmacht Basic Order No. 24, dated 13 December 1943 as an appendix to his proposal:  Motor fuel is a means of movement. At a decisive hour, we will not be able to move either our tanks or our fast units if there is no motor fuel. The motor fuel situation is serious. In 1944, it may become still more serious. Restrictions have to be imposed in January. It is impossible to give more