l’s 22 December reply to Harris, again essentially a copy of Bufton’s draft, assured him his concerns about Bomber Command “going it alone” in the oil offensive were completely groundless— the USAAF was heavily in the fight but could not currently engage distant plants. Thus, Bomber Command had “to put out and keep out of action the 11 synthetic plants in Central Germany.”1=2 Their pro- duction, he reiterated, provided 70 percent of total German requirements.  Portal then expressed disappointment with Harris’s continuing view of oil as another panacea. While he felt that way, Portal argued, “you will be unable to put your heart into the attack of oil.”15° He said Harris had attacked Leuna and Pélitz reluctantly and appeared unwilling to engage additional distant oil targets. Portal also criticized Harris for his dislike of MEW. Harris’s doubts, Portal said, implied he had no faith in any effort focused on a particular target set. To succeed, these efforts had to be concentrated in time and effort. Destroying half of a target set’s capacity would lead to failure. “If we had tried harder in our attacks on ball-bearings,” he added, “I have little doubt that the full effects forecast by the M.E.W. would have been achieved.”! Portal then tried to soften his message, saying he was pleased Harris had recently shown more initiative regarding oil attacks.  Harris fired back on 28 December. “I am afraid,” he said, “that nothing will disillusion me of the view that the oil plan is ... another panacea.”162 He did “not believe we shall achieve our object in the oil plan.”13 Harris also told Portal he would give the oil offensive top priority. He had, Harris admitted, done everything to make his views clear, but once he had an order he “carried it out to the utmost and to the best of my ability.” Harris also said his staff was in full support of the effort and simply followed orders—a statement implying either an entirely autocratic approach, one that stifled de- bate, or both. T