ross-commissioned to the RAF upon its establishment in April 1918. He served under Brigadier General P. R. C. Groves, head of the Directorate of Flying Operations (DFO) at the Air Ministry. Tiverton impressed on Sykes the vulnerability of Germany’s chemical industry to intensive bombing. He believed a concerted attack on nitrogen-fixation plants would reduce production of explosives and propellants by perhaps 80 percent, leaving the Germans no option but to surrender as ammunition ran out. Tiverton’s ideas were remarkable not just because they seized, correctly, on the single greatest vulnerability in the German war machine, but also because they represented the first effort to view bombing in terms of target sets that could, if damaged sufficiently, collapse the enemy’s war effort. Tiverton’s related initiative to establish realistic bombardment training against white-chalk outlines with the same dimensions as the most im- portant nitrogen-fixation plants, in which crews would practice navigating to the target in day and night conditions, was another forward-looking idea.*2  Tiverton said the German chemical industry must be the focus of IF raids. “The general policy which led to the formation of the Independent Force,” he said,  is the demobilization of the German Armies-in-the-Field, by attacking the root industries which supply them with munitions. ... The object being to dislocate and finally to obliterate the important key industry which supplies the necessary material for explosives, propellants and poison gas, every effort should be made to concentrate upon this one industry to the exclusion of everything else .. . therefore until these targets are completely crippled no others should be attacked.*8  In a subsequent note Tiverton reemphasized that  The modern Army-in-the-field is absolutely dependent upon munitions. ... There are... certain key industries which can be destroyed and the destruction of which will produce a bottle-neck and consequently put an e