tlv affect. His real failures in the intelligence arena were. first. his unwillingness to keen an onen mind about the renorts he saw. and more  Page 209 of 423 52%  i, —  One of the striking things about the meeting and its aftermath was the varying degrees to which subsequent damage assessments and other intelligence reports changed the senior airmen’s views. Spaatz, quite reasonably, felt vindicated by his aircrews’ victory over the Luftwaffe along with the almost immediate effects of oil and, later, bridge attacks on German operational capabilities. These brought Portal and Tedder firmly into the oil-and-bridges camp, a testament to their flexibility. At the same time, Spaatz later, and more begrudgingly, acknowledged how decisive the Tedder-Zucker- man transportation plan was in canalizing and restricting train movements even before they reached bombed-out bridges—a process we will see unfolding in subsequent pages. In this sense, although he gradually backed away from his idea that bombing could win the war, Spaatz was largely unrepentant and thus not disposed to change his operational views as a result of available intelligence, which in any case largely supported his positions. And like the rest of his comrades, he chafed under political decisions that overrode evidence presented in his staff’s intelligence documents. The militarily pointless bombing of U-boat bases was an early case, while the politicians’ dogged insistence on crossBow’s strikes on V-1 launch sites was a later one. Above all, Spaatz and Arnold detested what Arnold described as the process of “diversion, diversion, and yet more diversion” that constantly threatened to rob Spaatz of the potent heavy-bomber force he needed to achieve his objectives.*2  Tedder did better than most in understanding, on the basis of intelligence inputs, how the synergy among transportation, oil, and bridge (and later canal/waterway) attacks was degrading German operational capabilities. Although Tedder was first a