igence officer released an important damage assessment, compiled from earlier Allied Central Interpretation Unit (ACIU), RE8, and MEW reports, purporting to demonstrate the decisive results of city attacks from 1 March to 31 December 1943. What it did instead was highlight how little Bomber Command had done that was of decisive importance. In fact, the report foundered on the same shoals that had sunk earlier efforts: a fixation on man-hours of labor lost and the number of structures destroyed, an inability to define what comprised “decisive” results, and a failure to translate “morale effect” into a meaningful measure. The report began with an assessment that British bombing had cost Germany 1 million man-years in lost labor. “The loss inflicted on the enemy,” it said, “represents the total loss of nearly a complete month's work by every single factory worker in the whole of greater Germany. This has not fallen in-  Page 146 of 423 37%  Poststrike image of the 11-12 June 1943 Bomber Command raid on Diisseldorf. Burnt-out, roofless buildings have a distinctive hollow appearance. This raid destroyed 130 acres—nearly 75 percent of the city. Some forty-two plants producing war matériel suffered complete stoppages and another thirty-five partial stoppages. Human costs included 1,292 killed and 140,000 homeless. Such raids during the battle of the Ruhr caused severe damage and seriously hampered, but did not collapse, the German war economy. (NARA)  The problems with these figures, however, were serious, for reasons previously discussed, most prominently the extensive use of forced laborers and the dispersal of factories. The problem lay in the fact that relocation represented a loss of productive labor and time, but only once, while the RE8 analyses assumed that lost man-years accumulated every time a bombing raid destroyed houses and factories. The failure to detect large-scale movements of skilled German workers and their families to dispersed factories and the import