graphy; immediate formation of one or more photographic groups, including a photoreconnaissance group equipped with the latest pursuit aircraft; establishment of an Air Intelligence School to train photointerpreters and combat intelligence officers; formation of several photointerpretation units; and the creation of standing committees under the chairmanship of the photographic representative, Operations Division, Office of the Chief of the Air Corps (later HQ USAAF). The fact that Cabell later became a general and chief of operations and intelligence for the Medi- terranean Allied Air Forces says a great deal about his judgment.22  Cabell’s reports of visits to British air intelligence organizations comprised a veritable who’s who of key British personnel. He began with a visit to Group Captain F. C. V. Laws, the Air Ministry’s deputy director of photography. From there, he toured the Ministry of Aircraft Production’s Research and Experiments Section at RAF Farnborough, where he spoke with the research director of photos, as well as Photographic Reconnaissance Unit No. 1 (PRU1) at RAF Benson. He learned much about photoreconnaissance from the air officer commanding, Wing Commander G. W. Tuttle. Cabell then visited Bomber Command Intelligence, where he met Squadron Leader P. G. Heath, chief photointerpretation officer, and Photographic Reconnaissance Unit No. 3 (PRU3) at RAF Oakington, Bomber Command's dedicated unit for obtaining poststrike photos, meeting with Squadron Leader P. B. B. Ogilvie. At both locations, he learned methods for collecting, analyzing, and disseminating damage reports. He continued this discussion with photointerpretation and intelligence officers at several bomb squadrons. Perhaps most vital, however, was his visit to the CIU, the RAF’s centralized photoin- terpretation facility, where he had a long discussion with the commanding officer, Wing Commander H. Hemming, and toured the facility.  Cabell said, “The interpretation of aerial photogra