here, Int. 1 built photo mosaics of all major cities, noting high-value targets. The CIU provided photos for this massive effort, which was well under way by early 1942. At the same time, Int. 1 built town dossiers for every major town, including all available information of interest to Int. 1’s officers. Finally, Int. 1 determined whether each raid’s concentration and scale merited photoreconnaissance cover for damage-assessment purposes. If so, a request went to the assistant director of intelligence, photography (ADI(Ph)), and from there to the PRUs for aerial photos and to CIU K and N Sections for immediate and detailed interpretation reports.*! These new procedures were put to the test during the largest city attacks yet: the thousand-plane raids of spring and summer 1942.  The first such raid, against Cologne on 30-31 May 1942, was a shock to the Germans and boosted British morale. Several tactical innovations made the bombing exceptionally accurate and  Page 121 of 423 31%  4S n46  count on us in any weather short of the impossible.”* Eisenhower simply said, “They have already achieved the impossible.”*° Portal also noted that Harris did his utmost to carry out orders even if he disagreed with them; and Tedder insisted that Harris, when given specific orders, carried them out fully and “co-operated most loyally.”“2 This became clear during the transportation offensive to isolate the Normandy battle area, during which Bomber Command attacked the majority of rail centers, usually with devastating effect, and later, when Harris shifted aim points from city centers to their marshaling yards in an effort to help collapse the German war economy.“ Air Vice Marshal Kingston-McCloughry, chief air operations planner at Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force, simply said, “Harris and Bomber Command cannot be praised too highly for their efforts to implement what was by far the greater part in the Transportation Plan and contributed materially to its outstanding