onnaissance aircraft, cameras, and film. Most important, however, were the experience and judgment that grew out of a long war in which intelligence personnel engaged in an iterative learning process.  These qualities developed fully only within a mature interagency process in which all players worked, individually and institutionally, to place grand strategy and the greater good above partisan objectives. The Allied air intelligence effort’s greatest successes occurred as a result of this ability to work effectively across agencies and organizations, and to deliver effectively coordinated analyses as a result. The most notable failures in this process, as we have seen, occurred precisely when Allied politicians, senior operational commanders, and intelligence specialists forgot or chose to ignore these truisms. There is a great deal for us to ponder in this. Nevertheless, the evidence presented in this study clearly demonstrates that air intelligence was the leading edge of the heavy-bomber cam- paigns that contributed so extensively to the defeat of Nazi Germany.  NOTES  Page 345 of 423 82%  assisted.  Viewed in this light, the transportation offensive in France and Belgium, and the one against the Reich, were the most important of their kind. Planned and executed with the advance of Allied armies in mind, the latter was also designed to enhance the speed of the Red Army’s advance. Spaatz and Bufton championed bomber support to the Red Army in every bombing effort from early 1944 to VE Day. This was clearest in Spaatz’s efforts to gain Eisenhower’s approval for the oil offensive. When we recall that nearly all oil and fuel produced at Ploesti went to the Eastern Front, it becomes easier to understand how much the Red Army benefited from these attacks. What has remained hidden in the historical record, however, is the extent to which airmen sought to undermine transportation infrastructures in the Balkans specifically to aid the Red Army’s advance. As we have seen,