ents production. The first was Bomber Command’s effort against the Ruhr, which housed most of the steel and subcompo- nents factories. These targets suffered severe damage, as did the transportation hubs responsible for moving goods to arms factories and assembly points. The second was the start of intensive USAAF daylight bombing (addressed in greater detail later), which caused major damage to several different industries (especially aircraft factories and ball-bearing plants), exacerbated the already serious stoppages and dislocation in the war economy, and forced yet another acceleration of dispersal. The third factor was the high combat tempo throughout 1942-1943, which left the Wehrmacht in desperate need of replacement heavy weapons, vehicles, and other equipment. By bringing Speer’s nascent “armaments miracle” to a screeching halt during the second half of 1943, bombing created serious equipment shortages at the front. It also inhibited the Germans from developing new generations of weapons, as they instead struggled to keep current models coming off the production lines. Steel output, the key indicator for heavy-weapons production other than aircraft, suffered a 400,000-ton shortfall as a result of Bomber Command raids.24 Adam Tooze concluded, “Reading contem- porary sources, there can be no doubt that the battle of the Ruhr marked a turning point in the history of the German war economy, which has been grossly underestimated by post-war accounts. ... Bomber Command had stopped Speer’s armaments miracle in its tracks.”25 As he also noted, the real tragedy of the battle of the Ruhr was Harris's failure to keep attacking key targets in the region, turning his efforts instead to the political-economic-military chimera of Berlin and ushering in a battle that nearly destroyed Bomber Command. Given the German steel and subcomponents crises, persistent attacks against the Ruhr would have paid greater dividends.*° As Hitler himself said, “The Ruhr is the one base f