t we would today call an interagency process in which intelligence organizations share items of value with other organizations. Fortunately, failures to share intelligence occurred rarely, but the intelligence organization writ large was simply too mammoth to allow for anything approaching optimal coordination. Consequently, intelligence chiefs and their analysts sometimes did not coordinate with other organizations, either as a result of their imperfect integration, or as the result of outright refusal on the part of senior operational leaders to allow them to do so. In the case of the transportation offensive, USSTAF/EOU, Bomber Command, the Air Ministry, and MEW, among others, made an alliance of convenience against Tedder and Zuckerman’s plan, which had support only from their own staffs and RE8. Of course, Tedder also had Eisenhower’s ear and complete trust, which proved decisive in the final outcome.®3  Page 203 of 423 50%  Urallopired, iil d letter tO FOAL, LECCE 1AIETMEM, 1 alll ditalt Ullal llaVills slal led do a COMUIITMEC OPtiiilist 1 alll SLEaCIY 10SlTls ily OPtUiitiisiil ds LO LLOW Uilis is dll BULIE LO WOLK OUL.... LILE SO-CAlleG ‘Committee’ has shown no signs so far of producing any constructive results. I am more and more being forced to the unfortunate conclusion that the two strategic forces [Spaatz and Harris] are deter- mined not to play.”2 This was the one point at which Tedder approached anything like despair.  Worse was to come. The army’s War Office also resisted his plan. The primary objective, they said, must remain the destruction of the Luftwaffe. If the transportation plan diverted heavy bombers from this effort, it was not worth the cost. Only surplus bombers should go to preinvasion support. Consequently, they called for attacks on oil, tank production, tank depots, ordnance depots, motor transport parks, and radar systems. How, precisely, these were to slow the movement of German reinforcements to the Normandy battle area went entirel