mportant for the development of damage-assessment capabilities, however, was Dewdney’s decision to obtain data from the Ministry of Home Security on effects of German attacks on British oil plants and refineries. Dewdney believed such data would yield huge amounts of information for determining how best to bomb similar targets in Germany. His convictions proved correct, leading to the creation of Research and Experiments Department 8 (RE8) in 1942, which became a key intelligence producer in conjunction with the CIU and MEW. Once operational, RE8 used records of German damage to British industries as a comparative baseline for providing detailed assessments for bombing raids and studies tracking the status of repairs. This development, of fundamental importance to the creation of a mature air intelligence organization, is attributable almost entirely to Dewdney’s work.22  Equally important was Dewdney’s analysis of damage required to destroy oil targets. He estimated weight of attack required for 75 percent destruction of an average crude refinery at 70 tons of bombs, and 120 tons for a synthetic oil plant. He used existing reports, with their meager complement of aerial photographs, to infer loss of output at synthetic oil plants to date at 100,000 tons, and concluded that plants thus far attacked were between 58 and 80 percent undamaged. He also assumed a 300-yard average bomb aiming error and a repair rate of 6.7 percent per month. Although his figures were unduly optimistic, Dewdney’s methodology was sound. These tentative efforts provided the first clear indication that damage assessments would improve over time with the use of quantitative analysis based on increasingly detailed data.7® Also crucial to later bombing campaigns was Dewdney’s conclusion that “for a given number of bombs, loss of output is caused most effectively by putting on the heaviest possible attack in the shortest time, rather than by nibbling at short intervals at the target . . . it is cl