ent about panacea targets was not worth pursuing further. He and Harris simply had to agree to disagree. Portal recognized the value of city attacks but said they could not have been decisive without a much larger heavy-bomber force earlier in the war. On the other hand, oil provided a target system that, if successfully attacked, could mean an early end to the war. In Portal’s opinion, Harris regarded the oil plan as having failed because the war continued. This, he said, was a false assumption. The oil plan, he rightly noted, had succeeded as soon as oil shortages began impeding German resistance to Allied offensives in the east and west—immediately for the Luftwaffe and slightly later for the German army.1“&  Portal concluded with an assurance that he had always known Harris to be loyal, and that  Turillinoly aerant var aceurance that wan will eantinie ta da vair utmact ta enciure the cuecaccfill avaciitinn af the naliew laid dawn Tam very carry that van da not heliave in it hut it ic no 1c08  Page 283 of 423 67%  contemptuous term, but rather as the ory fully descriptive one avaliable. kegarding ou—tne greatest panacea—and fuel requirements, Marris said the enemy needed very lttle jor the essentials with which to continue the fight defensively. . . . It is no good knocking out 75% of something if 25% suffices for essentials.”122 The problem with oil targets, Harris added, was that new ones were appearing on bombing lists faster than old ones were being destroyed. It would be dangerous, he said, “should we abandon area attack, which has created vast destruction, in favour of a type of attack which if it fails to achieve its object achieves nothing. Nothing whatever.”  From there, Harris sought to deliver an argumentative coup de grace to the oil plan:  The oil plan pursued in 1940 was grotesquely unrelatable to facts or to practical possibilities. As to this second edition, it is another attempt to seek a quick, clever, easy and cheap way out. It will prove to be