r bombing was, how far off the mark their early damage assessments were, and how badly their dispersion of effort undermined effectiveness, they might have given up altogether. Fortunately, they did not. And through this first phase of the bombing effort, air intelligence skills improved rap- idly, as did the ability to make reasoned judgments about bombing’s effects and effectiveness.®2  What the British needed in their arsenal was an adequate number of highaltitude, long-range reconnaissance aircraft, improved aerial cameras, and an organization devoted entirely to interpreting aerial photos. Only this would provide an accurate picture of the German war economy and the damage bombing did to it. These capabilities were well on the way to maturity at the PDU and PIU. Ironically, the much more accurate and voluminous poststrike photos and reports delivered during 1941—once there were three Spitfire photoreconnaissance squadrons in action—provided a severe jolt to senior leaders, leading them away from “precision” bombing and decisively toward nighttime city bombing.  Page 107 of 423 28%  Say ee ee eee ee es ee ae eS ee ea eee ee ee ee NS a eee Ee ee eS ee larger-scale attacks, concentrated on a few high-value oil targets, using larger bombs.&+  Dispersion also caused damage-assessment problems. Although by the late 1940 the establishment for night-capable strike cameras was 4 per squadron (and hence 168 for the forty-two squadrons then in service), there were only 22 cameras available.® Given the dispersion of bombing effort and small numbers of cameras, bomber crews collected few strike photos. Even when they were available, analytical techniques were still in their infancy. Flying night missions also made visual observation difficult. Consequently, the effort devolved largely to guesswork, unless reconnaissance Spitfires, still few in number, obtained poststrike cover. Here again, dissipation of bombing effort proved problematic because the sixteen Spitfires then i