nd the war quickly and with the lowest possible loss of soldiers’ lives.  Anumber of individuals and institutions provided the counsel and support necessary to produce this work. My adviser at Ohio State, Professor John F. Guilmartin Jr., rendered tireless support, superb insights, and infinite patience as I produced this work. His ethic of service, learned as a young man in very demanding circumstances, is still very much alive. My deep thanks go as well to Professor Allan R. Millett and Professor Alan D. Beyerchen, both of whom took a good bit of time out of their busy schedules to review this study and offer valuable insights, as well as give me the basic under- standing of military and European history necessary to bring it to completion.  Special thanks go also to Colonel (Ret.) Thomas E. Griffith Jr. and Colonel (Ret.) Stephen D. Chiabotti at the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS). Professor Chiabotti’s insights on air intelligence as conceptualized and practiced by the air force played a vital role in my decision to take on this project. Colonel Griffith and Professor Chiabotti generously supported my research, funding visits to five major archives in the United States and Great Britain. They are true champions. Sebastian Cox and Professors Conrad Crane, Richard Muller, and Hal Winton also provided exceptionally valuable insights, all of which made this book a better work of scholarship than it otherwise would have been. Having said this, any errors of fact or judgment are entirely my responsibility.  Ahost of people at the USAF Academy Special Collections Branch, National Archives and Records Administration, Air Force Historical Research Agency, Library of Congress, and the National Archives (formerly the Public Record Office) in the United Kingdom also proved helpful. I am grateful for their insights and assistance.  Finally, and most of all, I want to thank my family for their patience and devotion as I spent many long days at the computer co