ovided data to the director general of equipment to implement photographic purchases, and served as chairman of the Standing Advisory Coordinating Committee on Photography and as a member of the Directorate of Scientific Research Photographic Committee. Because of this centralized effort, aerial photography had made huge strides. Laws reminded Cabell that the synergy between his organization and the PRUs was outstanding because the latter were ready-made test beds for all new equipment, allowing for rapid research, development, testing, and evaluation and fielding. Cabell was impressed, but he did see one weakness: a shortage of cameras aboard bombers for taking strike photographs. During night raids, for instance, only one aircraft in each squadron formation of twelve carried a camera. Although the British were in the process of installing more cameras, Cabell recommended the Americans install cam- eras before their bombers began flying combat missions. Arnold listened, and half of all USAAF bombers deployed to Great Britain had cameras.22  ee a eS  Hutchison’s Follow-up: Building Air Intelligence Training  Cabell’s report was so valuable that Arnold sent another USAAF officer, Major D. W. Hutchison, to Great Britain in October 1941 to gather more information and revalidate Cabell’s data. Hutchison visited the CIU’s training school at RAF Nuneham Common, adjacent to the CIU at RAF Medmenham. Primary training lasted four weeks with classes ranging from twenty-five to thirty students each. Three instructors taught students how to identify a wide array of objects on aerial photographs. In addition, students learned map reading, plotting, determination of scale on aerial photographs, and report writing. The British also believed selection of students with the right qualities was more important than the training itself. These included an eye for detail and patterns, an ability to see in stereo, at least 20/20 vision with no astigmatism, and analytical creativity allowin