f Service Departments and other sections of Objectives Department in considering policy, and for the use of other Departments of M.E.W. in assessing current production, etc.”® This chart came with an agreement that intelligence officers on Spaatz’s and Eaker’s staffs could work directly with MEW analysts on all issues.  A similar record of close cooperation also developed quickly with RE8. Although this vital organization was initially established to support RAF Bomber Command, it quickly became a primary provider of damage assessments to 8th Air Force and, in 1944, 15th Air Force. American airmen came to value RE8 damage reports highly. They proved quite valuable in the Americans’ efforts to determine the effects and effectiveness of their bombing, proper timing for reattack of various targets, and the effectiveness of their bombs and fuses. Of course the Americans did not ask their British comrades to do all this work alone. By August 1943, fifteen Americans were working in RE8.22  The Americans also took their cue from the RAF’s Operational Research Section. By July 1942, the Americans had established their version, the Operations Analysis Section, at 8th Bomber Command. In fact, Eaker had been focused on this problem since his arrival in Great Britain in March 1942.88  American officers also began flooding into the Air Ministry’s intelligence offices in 1942. During his consultation with the American Joint Chiefs of Staff in December 1941, Air Vice Marshal Medhurst (Inglis’s predecessor as assistant chief of air staff for intelligence) agreed to provide USAAF headquarters and flying units with all air intelligence regarding the enemy, including target materials and damage assessments. The first group of American officers arrived in April 1942. When Colonel Bacon, 8th Air Force A-2, established his offices at London in May 1942, he assigned one of these officers, Major Kingman Douglass, to the Air Ministry as his liaison officer. Others followed shortly, taking j