vidence,” it noted, “was so prompt and so persuasive that it may well be considered one of the principal contributions of Ultra to the conduct of the air war.”® Scores of intercepts highlighted severe fuel shortages on every front, giving airmen assurance the offensive was succeeding. On 22 May, an intercepted message ordered strict economy in fuel use because, “in view of effects of Allied action in Rumania and on German hydrogenation plants, extensive failures in mineral production and a considerable reduction in the June allocation... are to be expected.”&  ADA! Ram SS ee  Page 260 of 423 61%  percent of preattack production, which made clear how rapidly the campaign was reducing the Reich’s fuel production.®%  By late July, an increasingly severe oil shortage was having drastic effects on German operational capabilities. Synthetic oil production plunged to 35 percent of preattack levels (from 495,000 tons to 171,000), while oil reserves plummeted from over 1,000,000 to 573,000 tons. The monthly requirement for unrestricted military operations was 932,000 tons, meaning the Wehr macht faced a 38 percent deficit with worse to come.©  Ultra proved the most useful intelligence source for these assessments. Lieutenant Colonel Richard Haines, the foremost Ultra authority in the USAAF, said in his postwar study, “The volume of ULTRA messages available for May and the ensuing months is so great as to preclude the citation of all but a few.” Just as there were thousands of annotated aerial photographs, there were thousands of Ultra intercepts. Although photointerpreters could determine bomb damage with great accuracy, Ultra provided confirmation. A postwar study claimed Ultra reports were the most accurate assessments with respect to oil raids. “This evidence,” it noted, “was so prompt and so persuasive that it may well be considered one of the principal contributions of Ultra to the conduct of the air war.”® Scores of intercepts highlighted severe fuel shortages on every