e glory for destroying these vital targets. However, authority for use of heavy bombers rested with Eisenhower, and the precise guidance either he or Portal gave Harris to go after oil aggressively is not evident in the historical record.22  Despite this unclear tasking process, Harris began concerted Bomber Command raids the night of 18-19 July with attacks on Wesseling and Scholven, both of which were put out of action for several weeks. Around 1,000 bombs landed in the Wesseling plant area, and another 550 on Scholven. The larger number of Gee and Oboe stations now on the Continent facilitated this accurate bombing. These attacks heralded the end of Ruhr oil production. Indeed, subsequent Bomber Command attacks made in daylight with fighter escort, and in conjunction with 8th Air Force raids, knocked out all ten major synthetic oil plants and crude oil refineries in the Ruhr by the end of September. From there, periodic policing occurred as a plant showed signs of resuming production.28  As these attacks developed, the JOTC’s second weekly report noted the Bergius plants at Zeitz, Gelsenkirchen-Nordstern, Bohlen, and Politz were out of action until August. A report from a human intelligence source, corroborated by reconnaissance, confirmed serious damage to Ploesti’s marshaling yards had reduced considerably the movement of fuel from there to Germany and the Eastern Front. Damage to pumping stations also prevented the shipment of oil up the Danube. Consequently, because surplus fuel and oil production could not be shipped, the Rumanians shut down two- thirds of oil field production while awaiting repairs. The report closed with guidance for MAAF to keep pumping stations and loading terminals out of action, continue mining the Danube, and carry out attacks on the tugboat fleet. To hamper rail shipments, MAAF bombers continued attacking marshaling yards and interdicting bridges between Ploesti and the Eastern Front.22  By the end of July, production of finished POL