ive summary made it to several locations, including ACTS, where it exerted a key influence on the development of strategic bombing doctrine.2° The report noted the indirect effects of bombing, including loss of production due to time in air: raid shelters, lower morale, and too little sleep; the cost of defenses such as air raid shelters, antiaircraft artillery, and fighters; and the diversion of resources from offensive to defensive purposes.24 It also arrived at some of the same questionable assertions as the British version: “It is certain that air raids had a tremendous effect on the morale of the entire people.”2? In every other respect, however, the survey arrived at startlingly different conclusions. To begin with, it criticized the IF's “lack of a predetermined program carefully calculated to destroy by successive raids those industries most vital in maintaining Germany’s fighting forces.”2? It concluded that “the enemy’s morale was not sufficiently affected to handicap the enemy’s fighting forces in the field. ... Bombing for morale effect alone... which was probably the excuse for the wide spread of bombs over a town rather than their concentration on a factory, is not a productive means of bombing. The effect is legitimate and just as considerable when attained indirectly through the bombing of a factory.”24  Finally, and most significantly, the American survey noted that bombing effectiveness against an enemy’s war industries required a “careful study” of those industries, their interrelationships, and their vulnerabilities, followed by concerted bombing of key industries and bottleneck targets. The survey recommendations are worth quoting at length because of their implications:  Acareful study should be made of the different kinds of industries and the different factories of each. This study should ascertain how one industry is dependent on another and what the most important factories of each are. A decision should be reached as to just what factories