,166 severely damaged. Nearly 500 people were killed. A follow-up raid on 12-13 March caused even greater damage to Krupps and destroyed another 500 houses. A third raid on 3-4 April caused further damage. A Research and Experiments Department Eight (RE8) assessment of the effects of these raids on the Krupps works noted that 114 tons of bombs fell on the Krupps complex, a total of 75 tons per square mile. Nearly 25 percent of buildings in the complex were damaged, causing delays of up to 32 weeks for several industrial processes as repairs progressed. Analysts at RE8 estimated that Krupps lost three months’ production. They also observed that repairs were much slower than anticipated, which was puzzling given the excellence of German repair work. What the analysts missed was the dispersal of work away from the factory and the German penchant for continuing work in buildings with damaged upper stories but intact ground floors and basements.2  Because Krupps was a high-value facility, RE8 personnel also produced a report on reconstruction, noting that the factory complex’s productive output had been reduced by perhaps 40 percent until  Page 141 of 423 36%  on German night air defenses, “Bomber Command [was] not entitled to ULTRA, so reports could not be distributed to the only authority that really needed them.” In fact, Harris’s disdain for “the clever boys whose ideas never worked” extended beyond the Ministry of Economic Warfare (MEW) to Bletchley Park and the entire intelligence structure, in part, no doubt, because he never had an opportunity to see the full range of Ultra material, and because by 1944 he was utterly jaded by his earlier dealings with what he saw as a collection of incompetent intelligence agencies. One can only wonder, given Portal’s later attempts to convince Harris (unsuccessfully) that oil was much more than just another panacea target, whether better access to and use of Ultra might have moved even this most skeptical of men to change his p