even then, Ultra was always most effective when used in coordination with other sources. Wing Commander John Stubbington recently noted that even Ultra on occasion misled Allied intelligence specialists when used as a sole source because it was either incomplete or, as Horst Boog has noted, sometimes sugarcoated events to appease senior Nazi leaders.22 In fact, Stubbington further emphasized that both targeting and damage assessment “called for intelligence from many sources,”®! given its complexity and Ultra’s tendency, particularly before the oil offensive, to be of limited utility. “The contribution of ULTRA for target planning,” he said, “was usually indirect and, by itself, rarely sufficient for targeting purposes . . . there was at least for the first few years of the war almost no relevant ULTRA evidence.”22 We must therefore view Ultra as an important but by no means singularly instrumental source for the air intelligence effort.  Allied cryptographers also decrypted the Japanese naval attaché’s reports saying attacks on Ploesti and synthetic oil plants were taking a serious toll. “Allied attacks against German oil resources,” he noted, “have caused considerable damage and the present production of fuel has fallen to about 50%.”22 In August, he quoted the German liaison officer to the Japanese embassy, who said, with surprising candor, “I fear that if raids of this kind are allowed to continue, Germany’s capacity to prosecute the war will be very seriously affected.” The attaché further noted that if attacks continued, oil stocks would be depleted by mid-February.*4 A month later, he said that the Germans were beginning to run out of fuel.2=  Postwar interrogations of German leaders further corroborated damage reports and Ultra decrypts. One such interrogation confirmed that monthly receipts of aviation fuel fell from 150,000 tons in May 1944 to 52,000 in June and 7,000 tons in September. A slight recovery, to 18,700 tons in October and 39,200 in November, d