rted by seizing the few expected opportun- ities of effecting long term damage to the major productive plants even though these plants may not have resumed production by time of attack. The aim should now be to complete the destruc- tion of all major producers.124  The CSTC thus proved significant in several ways, not the least of which was this pressure on Bomber Command to keep carrying its full weight in the oil offensive—something Harris argued his aircrews had been doing, given weather and tactical limitations. Bufton had the advantage of Portal’s full confidence. He and Maxwell were thus able to convince Portal that Bomber Command attacks on distant Bergius plants were crucial. Harris, however, had just ordered area raids on Cologne and Bochum on nights well suited for oil attacks, after receiving guidance to go after Bergius plants.  Oil Attacks and the Portal-Harris Debate  The result was perhaps the most severe disagreement of the war between Portal, now a major proponent of oil attacks, and Harris. Portal, an effective but self-effacing leader who avoided acrimony, dropped the hammer on Harris but failed to follow up, letting Harris continue city bombing until April 1945 rather than relieving him of command.  The disagreement began in early November 1944, when Harris claimed that “in adopting the Oil Plan we sought a panacea. We shall fail and we are failing in our object for the reasons .. . that Germany being on the defensive, on interior lines and served by a close network of excellent roads and railways, will maintain the vital defensive essentials in fuel and transport in spite of all we can do to prevent her by air attack on oil.”125 Harris thus said oil targets could not be attacked with effect, but even if they could be, it was a wasted effort. How he could arrive at such a conclusion while surrounded by hundreds of intelligence reports to the contrary is perplexing. One unknown is the degree to which Harris’s late inclusion on the Ultra receipt li