, “are to bomb from the highest possible height in order to keep out of range of anti-aircraft defences.”14 He then proposed bombing tests from 25,000 and 40,000 feet. Bureaucratic inertia and the lack of a bomber capable of flying at those altitudes doomed this initiative to failure.  Despite the Bombing Committee’s efforts, development of larger bombs, better navigation equipment, installation of cameras on bombers for strike photos, and other intelligence-related capabilities received relatively little emphasis until 1939. Nor did crews receive training to navigate to and hit targets at night or in poor weather conditions, a stunning oversight considering Bomber Command’s raison d’étre. In short, there was a lack of imagination and judgment about what a heavy-bomber campaign would entail. The result was a disastrous series of daylight bombing raids in 1939-1940, a period of urgency in 1940-1941 during which Bomber Command developed new capabilities and tactics, and ultimately a move toward night city bombing as the only survivable and potentially effect- ive means of taking the war directly to the Reich.15  However, it is important to note that air intelligence developments during the late interwar period, which accelerated dramatically during World War II, were from the outset focused on building “precision” bombing capabilities and assessing effects and effectiveness. Too often, we forget the British intended all along to engage in precision strikes, whether by day or night. Night bombing has long been characterized as a highly imprecise business. Yet it spurred the development of detailed target folders, Pathfinder Force, target-marking bombs, night-strike photography, and damage reports for high-value facilities struck in the course of these raids. Collectively, these new skills facilitated day and night precision strikes. This became abundantly clear during the 1944-1945 transportation and oil offensives. Viewed in this light, the RAF’s development of bombin