n outside civilian expertise from the oil and transporta- tion industries as they planned these campaigns and assessed their effects and effectiveness.  The most notable exception—and there were others—was the partisan preinvasion debate in which intelligence organizations gave first loyalty to their political and operational masters. This was not intel’s proudest moment.  But taken as a whole, these agencies performed well, and they contributed much more than assessments of bombing’s effects and effectiveness. They also helped plan air campaigns and, through the Combined Strategic Targets Committee (CSTC) and its predecessors, made targeting recommendations that were based on damage reports. This ability to make reasoned and, on the whole, accurate judgments was at the core of the organizational, technological, and procedural prowess comprising the mature air intelligence organization. This capability, born of necessity but built on Anglo-Ameri- can rationalist, scientific, capitalist, and ideological foundations, gave airmen the insights required to direct heavy bombers to lucrative targets.  This ability to engage those targets most likely to undermine the German war effort became clear with the assault on the Luftwaffe—Operation ARGUMENT—which continued without letup until VE Day. It came into sharper focus with the transportation campaign against French and Belgian targets. The influence of expert advisors such as Professor Zuckerman and Mr. Brant, and of particularly capable airmen such as Tedder and Spaatz, on campaign planning and execution was obvious.  Page 337 of 423 80%  from an intelligence perspective has illuminated several previously ignored issues relating to the bombing effort.  First among these is the clearly documented fact that the air intelligence effort paid huge dividends in discerning, targeting, and assessing damage to oil and transportation assets, the Reich's most vital target sets. Air intelligence produced insights required to facilita