e Maquis destroyed several barges carrying 100,000 gallons of fuel on the Niévres River near its confluence with the Loire. Smaller attacks destroyed another 264,100 gallons of fuel. Taken together, these actions destroyed nearly 400,000 gallons of fuel and represented a banner day in the unremitting effort to deplete Ger- man fuel stocks.42  Attacks increased with the destruction of seventy railroad fuel tank cars on 5 August. Each carried about 8,000 gallons, representing a loss of 560,000 gallons, which the Germans could ill afford with their own vehicles short of fuel in the Avranches-Falaise areas and thus unable to engage in maneuver warfare with Allied forces during the breakout. On 12 August, the SAS destroyed another 396,150 gallons of fuel in tank cars. Attacks on fuel continued with an 8 September SAS raid at Foulain destroying 211,280 gallons. On 13 September, the French Forces of the Interior (the new title for the Ma- quis) destroyed another 211,280 gallons.452  Several things become apparent from SAS operations reports. First was the serious damage done to German logistics and transportation. Special forces actions intensified the effects of air attacks by slowing troop and supply movements and making them vulnerable to SAS and fighter-bomber attacks as they waited for bridge and railroad repairs. Second, the SAS and Maquis clearly placed heavy emphasis on destroying fuel stocks. Thus, SAS attacks were extensions of the transportation and oil offensives. Third, these actions represented a further effect of heavy-bomber attacks, which started when the heavies destroyed key marshaling yards and pushed the railheads back. This forced the Germans to use trucks and barges to move fuel and to decentralize and camouflage their fuel dumps, which made them safer from air attack but more vulnerable to SAS and Maquis attacks. This dispersal gave the SAS and Maquis a target-rich environment; they frequently picked off small and easily attacked truck convoys, fuel