g force.*  By the time the battle of the Ruhr ended and the battle of Berlin began, Bomber Command had done grievous damage to many cities. An RE8 bomb damage assessment report assessed the effects of fifteen raids on nine cities between 4 July and 30 September 1943. The report concluded that about 9.5 percent of nonindustrial and 5 percent of industrial buildings in these cities were destroyed or seriously damaged. In total, the nine towns lost about three weeks’ production and approximately 4.1 million man-months of labor, which equaled twenty-five days for every worker in each of those towns. This focus on man-months and man-hours of labor lost was joined by an equally heavy emphasis on dwelling units and factories destroyed or damaged, the former to gauge morale effects and the costs of resettling the homeless, the latter to gauge the effects on Germany’s war economy. These figures, though in most cases fairly precise, posed as many questions as they answered.16  An Inescapable Conundrum: Air Intelligence for City Raids  The figures came directly from raid assessment data sheets produced for every city raid, which listed population, number of industrial workers, and dwelling units. They then provided calculations of damage to industrial and commercial buildings and housing units, estimated the total casualties, and assessed industrial loss. The last calculation included production lost as a result of damage and the repair time required to bring each plant back on line, absenteeism due to the workers’ loss of housing and subsequent resettlement, and the loss of man-hours as a result of diversion of labor from production to relief and repair efforts. The end result of this assessment was production loss in millions of man-hours and by individual worker. Thus, for a 13-14 July raid on Aachen, RE8 analysts placed industrial loss at 34 million man-hours or 128 days’ lost labor for every worker in the city. Loss of man-hours in fact became the sine qua non of RE8 dama