pleted its movement to St. L6 on 2 July, a twenty-two-day odyssey encompassing 360 rail miles and another 100 road miles. Troops had to haul tanks by rope, on flatcars, one at a time, over the only Loire River railroad bridge still capable of carrying them. This bridge was seriously damaged and unable to sustain the weight of an entire train but passable for single flatcars and wagons. All other heavy-gauge bridges were down. After the division crossed the river, its 100-mile march to the front took five days, during which it suffered serious losses from air and Maquis attacks. It consumed most of its fuel in the process.425  The 9th and 10th SS Panzer Divisions departed Poland 12 June; with the exception of their armored vehicles, which slipped past Paris, they had to detrain in eastern France and road march 400 miles, during which the motorized vehicles exhausted their fuel increments and dust from back roads burned out their engines. The move from Poland to eastern France took five days; from there to the front it took two weeks.126  General Fritz Bayerlein’s elite Panzer Lehr Division lost 130 of its 1,000 trucks, including 40 fuel trucks, each with a 2.5-ton capacity, before his division reached the front. Fighter-bombers were already singling out the tankertrucks for destruction. During the road march north on 5-7 June, the division moved at night, attacked by night bombers. Bayerlein constantly lost men and vehicles and had to lead his division on long detours, slowing down the move and causing accidents and wear and tear on equipment. In addition, the distant railheads forced Bayerlein to send trucks constantly on supply runs. These took several days to complete a round-trip journey. Demotorization had the usual negative effects on combat power and maneuverability.122  A similar pattern unfolded for the 17th SS Panzer Grenadier Division, which arrived at the front after nine days of rail and road movement; the 2nd Panzer Division, which required five days to