e, a fact often overlooked by those claiming Bomber Command was simply “making the rubble bounce.” British bombers were, in fact, doing much more than that.24  The CSTC plan was built on lessons learned from the transportation campaign in France. “Experience in Northern France,” it noted, “showed that recovery of rail traffic is fairly rapid unless steady continuous pressure is maintained against all major centres of the system under attack.”22 The committee emphasized coordination between “heavies,” medium bombers, and fighter-bombers. They further agreed to target inland waterways. Finally, the magnitude of the task at hand convinced CSTC planners that they would have to limit the geographical area of attack to enhance bombing’s effects.  Their plan restricted attacks to the north-south corridor between the Rhine River and longitude 10 east. It also divided this area into zones and focused on key targets in each. The objectives were to canalize traffic in each zone, focusing on the destruction of trains and locomotive repair facilities. The five zones included the northeast approaches to the Ruhr, the Frankfurt-Mannheim zone, the Cologne-Coblenz zone, the Kassel zone, and the Karlsruhe-Stuttgart zone. East of the main corridor, attacks occurred only against rail centers where the payoff was substantial. For instance, bombers attacked Munich’s electrified railroad system to draw steam locomotives there. Fighters returning from escort missions were to conduct lowlevel attacks on moving trains, signal boxes, and switching apparatus to maximize friction.2®  The attack on inland waterways, which proceeded concurrently, made long-distance haulage difficult by isolating component regions. The consequent diversion of goods to an already damaged rail network would overload it. Raids would breach key portions of the Dortmund-Ems-Mittelland canal, sever the connection between the Mittelland canal and the Elbe River, and destroy the Minden aqueduct to cut off the Mittelland c