or instance, would be affected to a greater extent by four 120-lb. bombs than by two 250-Ib. bombs.”* The Air Ministry also dismissed recommendations for 1,000-pound and 1,500-pound bombs, saying they would reduce the performance of heavy bombers then on the drawing boards. Brooke-Popham, inspector general of the RAF and one of the very few people who read Air Ministry files from the Great War, replied that evidence from 1917 to 1918 pointed to the greater effectiveness of large bombs, noting that engineers designing the new bombers had told him they could easily modify their designs to accommodate larger munitions. The bomb subcom- mittee ignored him and reaffirmed the 1932 decision to produce no bombs larger than 500 pounds.£  Equally odd was the committee’s lethargic engagement with two issues fundamental to British bombing: an advanced bombsight and a four-engine heavy bomber. The first of these received mention at the twelfth meeting on 6 November 1936, nearly three years after the formation of the committee, when representatives noted pending delivery of the Mark I automatic bombsight. As it turned out, this model functioned poorly. Consequently, no improved bombsight became operational for another five years. The second topic, development of a heavy bomber, surfaced during several meetings and was driven by a growing realization among airmen that light bombers had become obsolete. Even the capable Wellington twin-engine bomber, which was developed beginning in 1932 and saw service throughout the war, lacked the necessary range and bomb load required for a major bombing campaign. The effort to build a true heavy bomber received further impetus from the “F Scheme” for rearmament proposed by the Committee on Defence Policy and Requirements the same year.? This was a significant expansion scheme because it marked the beginning of Britain’s preparations to create a credible bomber force. This included plans for the Stirling, Halifax, and Manchester, which were dra