ed railroad workers to increase daily wagon allocation from 6,000 to 12,000.14° This gave the Reichsbahn several temporary reprieves during fall and winter 1944-1945, but as the Allies used ever larger numbers of blind- bombing capabilities, these became less frequent and the bombing, even through cloud cover, became increasingly heavy. Regardless, the impossibility of reducing fuel production and coal transport to nil was noteworthy.  If bombing was incapable of stopping all railcar placements and train movements, it came increasingly close by 1945. Speer said severe damage to marshaling yards, combined with destruction of signals equipment (telegraphs, telephones, and switching and signaling equipment), meant that even when trains could move, they were difficult to locate or reroute. This made it nearly impossible to track even vital consignments, including fuel. This was why Speer said, “Transport difficulties were decisive in causing the swift breakdown of the Ardennes offensive.”141  Rundstedt agreed. Noting that German troops involved in the attack started out with a two-day supply of gasoline, he said the combination of air attacks on all points of the fuel pipeline, poor roads, poorly trained truck drivers, and the need to drive slowly and at night resulted in utterly inadequate fuel supplies. The cutting of railroad bridges in eight cities also “devastatingly contributed to the halting of the Ardennes Offensive.”142  Yet another problem involved the use of a rapidly increasing number of “homogeneous trains” during fall and winter 1944-1945—something not covered in the British foreign office report. Problems created by destruction of marshaling yards and railway signaling equipment forced this expedient, which involved loading an entire train with one item. It made loading at marshaling yards much easier, which was an absolute necessity, given reduced sorting and throughput capacities and the breakdown of Reichsbahn command-and-control capabilities. However,