orth-south traffic passed through marshaling yards east of Naples, making these key targets. Rolling stock and locomotive production were weak and vulnerable. All locomotive factories were targets.4  Zuckerman Arrives  By late June, NAAF and Professor Solly Zuckerman had devised competing plans for attacking Sicilian railroads in preparation for the invasion. Despite A-2’s insights, the NAAF operations plan focused on bombing rail lines, which were not even on the A-2’s list of key targets. Zuckerman focused instead on marshaling yards in Sicily and southern Italy. Tedder chose Zuckerman’s plan, and when the Allies secured Sicily, Tedder sent him to conduct a ground survey of bombing operations there and glean from Italian railroad officials the effectiveness of raids on marshaling yards from Naples and Foggia to Palermo.1#  Zuckerman had worked in the Ministry of Home Security from the beginning of the war, where he analyzed the effects of German bombing on British industries and railroads. He was also a member of Research and Experiments Department Eight (RE8), for which he studied damage to German targets. Tedder handpicked him to be his scientific advisor; as events proved, he chose wisely. Zuckerman  Page 182 of 423 45%  otaieme—, yeast iio  for everyone’s arguments.  The Italian Background  The three plans put into practice each had its genesis in an earlier effort to isolate German ground forces in Italy by bombing the transportation network on which they relied for supplies and reinforcements. Damage assessments from this effort played a central role in the later and more successful effort in France and the Low Countries.2  Planning for transportation attacks against the Italian railroad network began in spring 1943 with a Northwest African Air Force (NAAF) A-2 assessment of vulnerabilities. It focused on interdicting vital oil and coal shipments. The A-2 recommended attacks on locomotives and rolling stock to reduce Italy’s carrying capacity. This meant att