ntings in the fuselage and wings of a crashed Spitfire when Cotton approached him in fall 1939 to ask for assistance outfitting his first two Spitfires. As a result of Stringer’s efforts, the first operational reconnaissance Spitfire sortie flew on 18 November 1939.  Cotton also approached H. Hemming, head of the Aircraft Operating Company, for assistance interpreting photos produced by reconnaissance sorties. Hemming loaned Cotton his photogrammetric expert, Michael Spender, and the Swiss-made Wild photogrammetric machine, which allowed for precise measurements of objects in aerial photos—a huge advance in photointerpretation capabilities. The Aircraft Operating Company and its employees would soon be drafted by the RAF as the core of the PIU.4=  Bombing Lags Behind  If the reconnaissance and photointerpretation pieces of the intellectual infrastructure were emerging by fall 1939, bombing techniques lagged. Despite the increasing likelihood that bomber crews would soon be ordered into action against the Reich, they continued dropping practice bombs during clear weather, at low altitudes, on familiar ranges, against familiar mock targets. Because the crews knew their way to and from these ranges and flew during daylight hours, no navigational improvements occurred. These practice drops flew in the face of Air Ministry guidance in the 1937 Manual of Air Tactics, saying daylight high-altitude bombing would be the norm. Henry Tizard, who since 1936 had headed the Committee for the Scientific Survey of Air Offence, formed and instructed “to consider how far recent advances in scientific and technical knowledge can be used to strengthen present methods of offence in the Royal Air Force,” was concerned by the RAF’s lack of interest in navigation. He observed, in November 1938, that “relatively too much work has been put into what you do when you find the target and too little on the actual finding of the target.”4© Group Captain J. C. Slessor noted in October 1938 that th