t in first and fed reports to their owning commands, the BAU, and the AEB.  One of these teams was a Third Bombardment Division unit led by Major Mark Brown, the division’s chief photointerpreter. They studied their units’ bombing of marshaling yards such as the one at Trappes; petroleum, oil, and lubricants storage sites such as Gennevilliers, a major facility outside of Paris; and bridges such as the railroad crossing at Amizy. They took photos, interviewed workers, and produced damage assessments. These provided a wealth of information on bombing effects. For instance, the railroad bridge at Amizy yielded important information about hidden structural damage. The bridge was bombed by forty-five aircraft carrying 118 2,000-pound general-purpose bombs fused 1/10th second in the nose and 1/40th second in the tail. There were no hits but two near misses at one approach to the bridge. Although reconnaissance cover showed no damage, the bridge was seriously damaged. Shock waves and earth movement caused by near misses pushed the west abutment 13 inches to the east, shearing rivets anchoring the ends of the bridge and pushing them apart by 7 inches. Thus, the bridge would require major repairs before it could be used for fast and heavy traffic. Huge craters made by 2,000-pound bombs with this fuse combination—60 to 70 feet in diameter and 20 to 30 feet deep—also tore up tracks and grade around the bridge.+52  There were three important lessons here. First, not all serious damage is visible, especially in vertical, as opposed to oblique, photographs. Second, effort required to fill in large craters and repair track had to be considered when making judgments about time requirements for bridge repairs. Third, watching traffic patterns closely after such an attack, whether by sending reconnaissance aircraft over the target to observe traffic visually, by analyzing vertical or oblique photos over a period of days, or by relying on special operations teams, would reveal whethe