ring World War II, were from the outset focused on building “precision” bombing capabilities and assessing effects and effectiveness. Too often, we forget the British intended all along to engage in precision strikes, whether by day or night. Night bombing has long been characterized as a highly imprecise business. Yet it spurred the development of detailed target folders, Pathfinder Force, target-marking bombs, night-strike photography, and damage reports for high-value facilities struck in the course of these raids. Collectively, these new skills facilitated day and night precision strikes. This became abundantly clear during the 1944-1945 transportation and oil offensives. Viewed in this light, the RAF’s development of bombing and intelligence capabilities, while outwardly chaotic in the press of wartime events, in fact had internal cohesion and fol- lowed a planned and relatively straightforward pattern.+®  Air Intelligence and the Evolving Interagency Process  Page 62 of 423 16%  reer EOE ere eee eee eee eeEeEeeEeEeEeeeEeEeeee—e———_EeEeee eee eee EEE EE — eee eee eee ee ore  proved pivotal in the British bombing and air intelligence efforts.2  Air Intelligence and RAF Rearmament  Equally significant was the formation of a transportation targets subcommittee to discuss delaying and disorganizing German mobilization, concentration, and advance by bombing railroad viaducts, marshaling yards, embankments, and tracks in open country. This small body of ad hoc targeteers, including technical advisors such as War Office transportation officers and the superintendent of railroads, drew up a prioritized target list based on the first serious nodal analysis of Germany’s transportation network. They also backed production of a 1,000-pound bomb for use against transportation targets, resulting in a very effective weapon. And in an unprecedented move, they asked the Air Ministry’s director of intelligence for targeting information and data on German bombs. This may have had