imited because the Germans could always get adequate supplies to combat units. Nonetheless, Zuckerman and Tedder recognized the potential effectiveness of a larger transportation offensive against France precisely because of the geographic differences. Although Italian geog- raphy made breakthroughs south of the Po River Valley difficult, that of France provided opportunities for breakout and maneuver warfare once beyond the hedgerows.  ar “4 m4 teoyt 4 4. a A ri wea “a a 1 . 1 soe oor n aoa cr rn rr  Page 184 of 423 46%  began with a careful look at the italian rallway s records OF activity and damage done by Dombing. re came away convinced that attacking Marsnaling yards was the best way to interdict the move- ment of troops and supplies. He said of his work in Italy and of later ground surveys in France and Germany:  The purpose of every study I embarked upon was to get a measure of the effectiveness of air attacks in relation to their tactical or strategic purpose. I was not interested just in figures showing the extent of physical destruction; my main concern was whether we could achieve the objectives we were after better next time, either by choosing different targets or by using different methods of attack.12  Zuckerman set his Bombing Survey Unit of seventy men to work with these goals in mind. What they found was a strong connection between attacks on railway centers and the logistical problems German forces had in the Italian campaigns. He rated attacks on key marshaling yards in southern Italy and Sicily “an outstanding success.”14  Zuckerman’s final report, published in December 1943, said destruction of locomotive repair shops and rolling stock was the central cause of German logistical problems, which hindered the army’s ability to maneuver and fight as supplies of fuel and ammunition became unreliable. Nonetheless, he said the effort had been a “partial failure” because German units could still move and fight, even if in a degraded fashion. His analy