gh-altitude precision daylight bombardment.  Consequently, it is here that we would logically assume a divergence in bomb damage assessment emphasis and procedures during the interwar period and World War II. Yet there was none. Neither side continued developing any kind of serious air intelligence capability after 1918. And the British, once they again began paying serious attention to strategic bombing after 1936, actually adopted Tivertonian rather than Trenchardian ideas and tried to conduct precision daylight bombardment in 1939-1940. The British shift from daylight precision to night area bombing produced no significant changes in their highly developed Tivertonian capabilities. What this meant was that a superb British damage-assessment capability came to be paired with American daylight precision bombing, which it was supremely well fitted to support. This serendipitous relationship had dramatic implications for the conduct, assessment, and effectiveness of the Allies’ heavy-bomber cam- paigns during the Second World War.  FOUR  Page 38 of 423 1%  British and American experiences with bombing during World War I, and the different conclusions they drew from them, drove the development of divergent ideas in the final months of the war. These ideas, most of which faded from public discourse during the interwar period, reemerged rapidly at the end of the interwar years and in the early stages of World War II. Airmen from both countries shared the same underlying belief about the potential efficacy of bombing: “A fundamental assertion that became central to Anglo-American thinking about long-range bombing was that modern, complex, urban-based societies are fragile, interdependent, and therefore particularly vulnerable to disruption through aerial bombing.”2° However, after a brief and unsuccessful daylight bombing effort in 1939 and 1940, the British turned to night city bombing to destroy German urban areas and undermine German morale. In contrast, the Americans