oordination with it. The division of labor brought on by this evolving relationship included Bomber Command responsibility for building detailed tar- get dossiers with all available CIU damage assessments and other materials. The CIU continued producing damage assessments, sharing the process for night raids with Bomber Command.1*  By mid-1941 the photographic development units (PRUs) and CIU were maturing. The arrival of eight photointerpreters from Bomber Command to augment K (Damage) Section provided a major  Page 110 of 423 28%  oO” a they did so in much larger strike packages of from forty to seventy aircraft. Third, they began making larger-scale attacks 0 on cities, either as alternative targets or, increasingly, as primary targets. A  222-bomber raid on Hannover the night of 10-11 February was the largest attack to date.’ The first development was driven by a directive to Air Chief Marshal Peirse, head of Bomber Command, to get after oil targets. The second—larger-scale raids—was significant because it indicated Peirse was listening to Dewdney, Photographic Interpretation Unit photointerpreters, and Ministry of Economic Warfare (MEW) oil analysts, all of whom agreed that poststrike photographs and damage assessments made clear the importance of massing large numbers of bombers over each target.  ee  Emerging Realities, Changing Priorities  After March 1941, attacks on oil diminished. One of the biggest contributing factors was the German conquest of Greece in April, which negated the Ploesti option. Another was the continuing habit of spreading bombers too thin, this time by adding transportation attacks in the Ruhr to oil and naval targets. A third, and vital, factor was the success of city bombing, which increased dramatically as a result of a new directive to assist with the Battle of the Atlantic. This included large raids on port cities such as Hamburg, Bremen, Wilhelmshaven, and Kiel and major U-boat bases such as Brest and Lorient. Two such raids on K