Ce eee SN Sy CERRO E SRS EE SEEN ES Be MTR ELSE LASER y SEEN EE RRS Ey TSE SEAL SUSE Oh, SEL pounds of bombs to the B-17’s 6,000 to 9,000 pounds. This combination of British and American capabilities was already changing the ways in which senior airmen thought about how they should bomb, about what they could and should bomb, and about what was possible once heavy bombers began going after high-value targets in both day and night precision attacks.  First, however, the British were committed to city bombing. They would continue it, despite steadily mounting losses, with the expectation that at some point it would undermine the German war economy and break German morale. Although city bombing did severe damage, it failed in its stated aim of knocking Germany out of the war. And it was the Allied air intelligence organization that highlighted this failure even while it underscored the many important things Bomber Command did to hamper the German war effort and lay the groundwork for the much more serious damage to come once the Americans joined their British comrades in force.  EIGHT  AIR INTELLIGENCE REACHES MATURITY  January 1943-January 1944  You must not hold the childish opinion that danger from the air will remain as slight as it is today. ... The next six to nine months will bring the decisive turning-point for us. This... will depend solely upon whether we are in a position to oppose the enemy with more single and twin-engined fighters than he has bombers to put into the air against us.  —Albert Speer to Central Planning Office, Memos of 12 February and 29 July 1943  Casablanca and the Combined Bomber Offensive (“POINTBLANK”)  By January 1943, Bomber Command city raids were increasing in frequency and intensity as more four-engine “heavies” and better navigational and bombing aids such as Oboe and Pathfinder Force came on line. But the Germans proved exceptionally resourceful adversaries. Aside from building an increasingly lethal night air-defense system, the