t—and in fact did not—compensate entirely for these production losses.78  A Counterfactual Question: Bomber Command and Ball-Bearing Plants  This analysis raises the question of Bomber Command’s role—or lack thereof—in this effort. Had Harris joined Eaker, could their bombers have inflicted strategically significant damage on ball-bearing plants? Both damage assessments and postwar interrogations of Kugelfischer executives indicate this could have been the case. However, Harris’s view, reflected in the poor results of two Bomber Command missions finally flown against the ball-bearing plants in February 1944, was that Schweinfurt was simply too difficult a target for Bomber Command to hit with a high degree of accuracy at that point in the war. Damage assessments from these raids seemed to bear this out, but a sample of just two raids left a great deal of uncertainty. Air Commodore Sydney Bufton, Portal’s director  Page 171 of 423 43%  DICAL ILE, LALLULICS WLS ALUMI ROD SEL PULL. LAC UEUALIE, FU NO, CALE ALOU WOLALAL LAL UlE OULIVVCLILLUE LL, WIL Af SAU MOL, CLAUSE A 1 PELLECALE L090 LBL PEUUULLIUEL ALIM A OLLIE L000 UE LILLLOLIOCM PLUME AL LIS three major factories, which produced over 70 percent of Germany’s ball bearings. The 14 October raid did severe damage, including destruction of the ball-bearing-forming and heat-treatment build- ings and the top two stories of the assembly and storage building. The ACIU K report said:  Very heavy and concentrated damage is visible within the target area, due probably as much to fire as to H.E. All three factories of the Schweinfurt ball bearing industry and the two closely allied therewith have been affected, those of the V.K.F. Werks I and II suffering very severe damage. In many cases, buildings damaged in the previous raid have now been destroyed or have received further damage.7&  An RE8 report estimated losses at three months of ball-bearing production and seven weeks for roller bearings. Yet RE8, not yet fully cognizan