ll observation planes and five percent of all bombing planes . .. should be equipped for photography.”22  By late 1917 the American photographic effort was well advanced. Photographic matters came under the purview of the Photographic Section of the Air Service. The attention given to aerial photography had its genesis in congressional hearings on military funds in January 1917, during which an Air Service officer said cameras were of crucial importance to flying operations and should be standard equipment in all flying units. Despite the high priority it received, the Photographic Section faced many challenges, including too few trained officers and low-quality bromide paper and plates. The paper problem was serious because supplies available in Europe produced grainy photographs. American ingenuity came to the rescue when the Eastman Kodak Company opened a brom- ide paper factory in Paris in late 1917. The quality of photos improved “at least 50 percent.”28  New Munitions  As photographic equipment improved, so did bombs. In fact, bombs, cameras, and other intelligence-related technologies formed a self-reinforcing targeting-bombing-assessment feedback loop in which intelligence officers and aircrews incorporated lessons learned in previous missions, and from the development process for bombs, into damage assessments. Consequently, we cannot discuss the evolution of air intelligence without looking at the development of bombs, fuses, and bombsights.  Most early bombs were small, weighing between 20 and 110 pounds, with primitive fuses prone to malfunction. The results, as early MEA efforts confirmed in 1915-1916, were inadequate destruct- ive power, poor ballistic qualities, and high malfunction rates.  British efforts to determine munitions effectiveness received impetus from German raids against Britain in 1917, which spurred intelligence and ordnance officers to analyze the effects of German bombs in order to improve their own munitions. The largest German bomb