h Air Force A-2, established his offices at London in May 1942, he assigned one of these officers, Major Kingman Douglass, to the Air Ministry as his liaison officer. Others followed shortly, taking jobs alongside their British hosts in A.I.3(c), which produced target materials, A.I.3(c)2, which produced executive-level bomb damage assessment, and A.I.3(U.S.A.), the Air Ministry office responsible for ensuring the efficient supply and distribution of all intelligence material and reports to USAAF headquarters and flying units. A.I.3(U.S.A.) conducted direct liaison with the CIU and ensured all required interpretation reports authored by K (Damage Assessment) Section, D (Industry) Section, and the other fifteen-plus sections reached American customers with minimum delay. To speed this process, the Air Ministry assigned a production code to every report. These were keyed to specific distribution lists, each with anywhere from 5 to 300 recipients. As soon as a product went to press, couriers were ready to speed them to all the organizations on each list. By 1943, this process of liaison, coordination, and integration of air intelligence functions was beginning to mature.22  The Quid Pro Quo: American Heavy Bombers and RAF Intelligence  While giving the Americans all the air intelligence they needed, the British in turn received something of value: a growing sense that American bombing doctrine and tactics had the potential to do grievous harm to the German war effort. By September 1942, senior officers at the Air Ministry were discussing in earnest what the American bombing capability presaged, and whether it was worthwhile or even wise to attempt to talk their allies into joining Bomber Command in a massive city-bombing effort. Air Vice Marshal J. C. Slessor, recently appointed assistant chief of air staff (policy), said of the Americans: “Their bombing has been extremely accurate as a rule. And I think we have seen enough of their performance in this and other theatr