rman fleet at the Helisnland Richt Flying wnescarted in davlisht they were attacked hw fighters and Inst aver half their nimhers With  Page 81 of 423 21%  fiutcnison aiso reconfirmed the vaiule OF the PRUS anda U1U, Saying Alr Vice Narsnal Fred ines, Che frir vuinistry S assistant Cher Of alr Start intelligence), estimated over oVU percent OF KAP intelligence came from aerial photographs. He further noted that the work done by the PRUs was so important they received first priority for all improved and new aircraft types. PRU1 already had forty Spitfires and six Mosquitoes assigned. Pilots had primary and secondary objectives, which meant they almost always brought back useful photos.=2  Slow but Steady Progress  One other American visit deserves brief mention. In summer 1941, Major Haywood Hansell visited the Air Ministry, where Air Vice Marshal Inglis gave him nearly a ton of documents, mostly target folders, to assist the USAAF air staff with targeting. Hansell requisitioned an American bomber to haul this treasure trove back to Washington, D.C., where the documents augmented a small but rap- idly growing collection of target materials in ACAS A-2.©2  Despite these important developments, the Allies entered World War II without anything approaching a mature air intelligence organization. However, the British had come much closer by Septem- ber 1939 than the Americans had by December 1941. The reasons for this had to do with a greater British appreciation for the importance of air and economic intelligence agencies, working in close cooperation, and fed with a steady stream of aerial photographs and, increasingly once the war began, Ultra decrypts. The Americans, on the other hand, focused on bombing doctrine, heavy bombers, and advanced bombsights. A de facto operational capability had emerged by the time they entered the war. The British paid for their lack of emphasis on operational capabilities with inaccurate bomb- ing, which, ironically, their damage assessme