had to address public grievances. The raids sparked a renewed interest in bombing as a retaliatory and strategic weapon. Lord George Curzon, head of the British Air Board, told the War Cabinet that “we do not recede from the view that a long-range offensive is in itself a most desirable thing and should be systematically pursued when the force is available for the purpose.”2° The key outcome, based on recommendations in the Smuts report, was the birth of the RAF on 1 April 1918.24  The new service soon created a bombing wing, under independent command, to conduct reprisal and strategic attacks. Although strategic attacks proved to be the exception, the Independent Force (IF) and its predecessors, the 41st Wing and 8th Brigade, began bombing industrial and urban targets in October 1917. From its moribund state after the failure of the combined RNAS-French bombing  Page 16 of 423 5%  World War ll. ihey required new technicians, toois, and techniques. Une Key result oF these developments was tne Dirtn of damage assessment as a distinct inteiigence discipline.  Air Intelligence Developments, 1916  The first bombing campaign with military-strategic aims occurred in 1916, when the RNAS and French Army bomber squadrons attempted to impede the German war effort by destroying industrial targets, in the process drawing German fighters from the front to protect these targets. This offensive was hampered by a severe shortage of pilots and machines, and by the continued absence of onboard cameras for strike photos.12 The only bright spot was the French air staff’s attention to target selection and damage assessment. French planners and their British counterparts developed a target list, including steel furnaces and arms plants, and ranked them by their importance to the German war effort. They then ascertained whether each objective was in range and vulnerable. Finally, they assigned an order of priority on the basis of the feasibility of damaging or destroying each target.2° Ho