mic intelligence team focused exclusively on these questions was indispensable. Accordingly, they established the IIC in 1931. The IIC worked increasingly closely with the Air Ministry’s Directorate of Intelligence to determine the German economy’s vulnerabilities to bombing. The obvious connections between economic intelligence and air intelligence, particularly relating to the vulnerabilities of an enemy’s war economy, made themselves felt throughout the growing intelligence community in the early 1930s. The fit between the two for air intelligence was not lost on those involved in discussions on cooperation and coordination during a future war, and engagement on these topics gathered momentum even though turf battles and bureaucratic inertia sometimes threatened to derail the process.&  Although cooperation between these intelligence organizations was initially tentative, it had dramatic implications for the development of air and economic intelligence agencies during the Second World War. F. H. Hinsley and his coauthors, including air intelligence specialist Edward Thomas, emphasized this point at the start of their five-volume study of British wartime intelligence:  In the years before the Second World War several bodies within the British structure of government shared the responsibility for intelligence. They were far from forming a single organization. They had evolved on different lines, within different departments, and no one authority directly supervised them all. Nor could any one authority have done so, given the nature of their re- sponsibilities and the variety of their activities. In some ways, however, they were coming to think of themselves as being parts of a single system for the first time. Perhaps the most significant development of these years is reflected in the fact that they recognized by 1939, as they had not recognized before 1918, the need to strike the right balance between the impracticability of cen- tralization and the dangers and d