tical and military leaders gave operations THUNDERCLAP, HURRICANE I and II, and CLARION rapt attention. Only CLARION went forward. Its aim was to create such widespread havoc in villages and towns with any kind of rail or road junction not yet bombed that it would somehow make the German people sit down and stop doing any- thing. It was a failure.  USSTAF airmen started planning for Operation SHATTER, renamed THUNDERCLAP, in response to German V-1 attacks. The intent was to conduct massive bombing of at least 100 German cities, with a heavy focus on Berlin, on a single day to make clear the Germans’ helplessness in the face of Allied airpower. By July 1944, when planning got under way, the Germans had long since figured that out. They weren’t going to collapse as a result of additional bombing. Ironically, Churchill found American airmen and soldiers—excepting Spaatz—in his corner, and his top RAF officers in the other. Portal viewed the plan as tantamount to negotiating with the Germans (Churchill had said a warning should go out to the Nazi leadership that smaller German cities would suffer attack if V-1 attacks con- tinued). Tedder thought it “wickedly uneconomical” and a huge waste of effort. Although aim points were marshaling yards and other military targets, these were nearly all in the city centers.152  THUNDERCLAP’s planners examined the use of a combination of heavies and tactical platforms to bomb and strafe towns of fewer than 20,000 inhabitants, thus shaking civilian morale, but more importantly convincing Nazi officials that the Reich was finished. However, they somewhat inexplicably settled on Berlin as the ideal target. Ironically, just as Harris had done in his command’s run- up to the ill-fated battle of Berlin, intelligence and operations planners argued that even in conditions of total cloud cover, Berlin was still a good radar target. It was also the center of government,  rammunicatinne and adminictratinn Thaw avidantlhy diemiccad Ramhar Camman