of the photograph. . .a stereoscopic instrument and magnifying glass must be available for the study and interpretation of photographs.  This guidance hints at two quintessentially Anglo-American qualities vital to air intelligence developments in both world wars. The first was a penchant for organizing, storing, analyzing, and disseminating intelligence svstematically The second was an affinity for technolosv to imnrove arganizational effectiveness The sterenscnnic instriment is a himhle examnle hut an imnortant ane  Page 24 of 423 Th  downed enemy aircrart, and other sources. 1nis division of labor between Tying squadrons and Air Ministry DAI marked the frst point at which damage assessments became part Of wnat was called third-phase (detailed) interpretation and analysis during World War II.  The American Air Service component of the AEF copied British procedure and organizations, an initiative endorsed by General John J. Pershing, the commander in chief of the AEF, in summer 1917.42 Pershing approved formation of an independent air staff, subordinate in name only to Signal Corps Headquarters. From the outset, this intelligence capability involved collection, interpretation, and dissemination of photointelligence to provide accurate artillery and BDA. The report emphasized the importance of aerial reconnaissance at the corps and army levels and within bombardment squad- rons, calling it “the principal new element” in the intelligence equation.*2  The American air intelligence organization included Subsection G-2-A-7, Air Intelligence, on General Pershing’s staff, and branch intelligence officers at bomb and observation squadrons. Primary duties included interrogation of captured enemy airmen, maintenance of the enemy air order of battle, and acquisition of technical information on enemy air capabilities. The bomb targets depart- ment, responsible for building target folders, making targeting recommendations to the Directorate of Operations (G-3), compiling record