s.1%  The next JOTC bulletin warned that summer weather was ending, making an all-out effort imperative. The goal was to put the twenty-five largest oil plants and refineries out of action for at least two months. This meant attacking large plants that were currently inactive to ensure major effects rather than going after smaller but active producers. “Successful attack of these 25 targets before the end of August or early in September,” the bulletin concluded, “would result in the reduction of oil production in September to less than 500,000 tons or about 35% of pre-attack production.”1%  Heavy attacks during the first week of August, coupled with Rumania’s defection to the Allies, proved disastrous for German forces. With the loss of Ploesti, total output of finished products, including gasoline and aviation fuel, was 539,000 tons, only 40 percent of the preattack total. There were no Bergius plants operating, only three Fischer-Tropsch plants, and one refinery in Germany but four in Austria and three in Hungary. The weekly bulletin closed with an upbeat assessment:  The Allied Air Forces are now presented with an unparalleled opportunity. It is within their power, by further attacks within the next few weeks, to create conditions of stringency which might well have decisive effects on the enemy’s ability to continue the war. .. . If this aim is to be achieved it is essential that the re-attack of potentially important producers should not await confirmation that the plants have resumed activity. In the present situation no opportunity should be lost of prolonging their inactivity by renewing the attack.12  Although the Allies were not quite as close to finishing off the Reich as this analysis suggested, the German fuel situation had became disastrous.  By September, there was widespread evidence the Germans were using gasoline blended with benzol. Of twenty major benzol plants collectively producing 35,000 tons per month, sixteen were in the Ruhr and highly vuln