or the next 4 to 6 weeks—at what may be a critical phase of the battle for Germany—will consist of the past production in transit through the distribution system.”22 This was crucial. Although the Germans still had fuel in their distribution pipeline, it was so obstructed by raids on rail centers and bridges that most units received only enough fuel to conduct a static defense. Accordingly, the CSTC recommended attacks on fuel depots take precedence. The last vestiges of German tactical mobility disap- peared when air attacks destroyed the depots.2+  Support of the Red Army: The Road to Dresden  The key now was to give all possible support to the Red Army. Putting the last four Bergius plants out of action would, along with the imminent Russian capture of Upper Silesia’s synthetic oil plants and coalfields, collapse German oil production. Airmen also went after marshaling yards through which German divisions moving to the east travelled, including those at Leipzig, Chemnitz, and Dresden.  Ultra intelligence confirmed that 6th SS Panzer Army, composed of four (later six) SS Panzer divisions, was moving from west to east with routing along the Berlin-Magdeburg-Leipzig-Dresden- Cottbus railways. Its orders were to stop the Red Army’s advance into Upper Silesia and toward the Oder. The Russians were calling for raids on marshaling yards along 6th Panzer’s route of travel. Ultra provided detailed information on assembly areas near Cologne and Coblenz, and the rate of movement, which the Germans projected at twenty-five to thirty trains per day. The use of heavy bombers at this point was to attack marshaling yards where 6th SS Panzer was entraining, and rail centers where its units would transit or detrain. The Russian offensive had proven so successful that Allied leaders made these attacks top priority after the last four functioning Bergius plants.®2 A Chiefs of Staff (COS) report confirmed that bombing was already slowing the move of German divisions as they attempted