d hidden in the historical record, however, is the extent to which airmen sought to undermine transportation infrastructures in the Balkans specifically to aid the Red Army’s advance. As we have seen, by April 1944, Mediterranean Allied Air Forces planners had developed, at Spaatz’s behest, a transportation plan to assist the Red Army, and it proved very effective.  The success of the oil and transportation offensives made clear the vital role of air intelligence in allowing airmen to discern the importance of target sets, attack them with great effect, and assess with a high degree of accuracy bombing effectiveness. This targeting-bombing-assessment feedback loop rested on a variety of developments stretching back through the interwar period to the Great War. More than anything else, however, it relied on the emergence of a mature air intelligence organization during World War II. Despite occasional failures, this organization worked exceptionally well. Its major elements included a structure within which intelligence organizations, including Bletchley Park, routinely exchanged information and shared expertise; highly trained specialists; and superb reconnaissance aircraft, cameras, and film. Most important, however, were the experience and judgment that grew out of a long war in which intelligence personnel engaged in an iterative learning process.  These qualities developed fully only within a mature interagency process in which all players worked, individually and institutionally, to place grand strategy and the greater good above partisan objectives. The Allied air intelligence effort’s greatest successes occurred as a result of this ability to work effectively across agencies and organizations, and to deliver effectively coordinated analyses as a result. The most notable failures in this process, as we have seen, occurred precisely when Allied politicians, senior operational commanders, and intelligence specialists forgot or chose to ignore these truisms. Ther