c target sets rather than British city bombing, which was much more difficult to assess in terms of its overall impact on Nazi Germany’s war effort but, as we will see, still very effective.12  Perhaps the thing damage assessments made most clear about the bombing campaigns known collectively as the CBO was the steadily increasing and ultimately pervasive friction they created in the German war effort. By the summer of 1944, this friction was ubiquitous. From increasingly severe fuel shortages in the Luftwaffe and German army; to the constant delays, equipment losses, and casualties German troops experienced in conducting tactical maneuvers as well as movements to or between the various fighting fronts; to the ammunition shortages of the war’s final months; anda myriad of other ways, Allied bombers were the creators of friction the Nazi war machine par excellence. This process began with Bomber Command attacks and accelerated as the Americans joined the effort in ever larger numbers. The friction they created made even simple tasks difficult or impossible. Clausewitz’s description of friction is particularly well suited to describing bombing’s effects on the Wehrmacht. In war, Clausewitz said,  Friction is the only concept that more or less corresponds to the factors that distinguish real war from war on paper. ... Action in war is like movement in a resistant element. Just as the simplest and most natural of movements, walking, cannot easily be performed in water, so in war it is difficult for normal efforts to achieve even moderate results.  For the Germans after spring 1944, the resistant element was increasingly like molasses rather than water.12  Despite extraordinary repair efforts, the Germans fell further and further behind in the hopeless race to counter disastrous bombing-induced friction in virtually every facet of their war effort. Tactical movements that took a few days while the Germans owned the skies over Europe took two weeks or more once the marsha