de. The combination of these organizations with new technologies, including reconnaissance Spitfire and Mosquito aircraft with advanced cameras, resulted in very effective, but by no means perfect, air intelligence capabilities. Once American air intelligence personnel and reconnaissance aircraft began arriving in 1942, a highly effective Anglo- American air intelligence organization emerged. Two of the most important aspects of this new air intelligence capability and its successes were its interagency nature—the machinery put in place to share insights quickly among every interested organization—and its distinctly combined flavor. As leaders in this field, the British worked brilliantly with their American pupils, and in the process helped give birth to America’s first air intelligence capability. Anglo-American analytical expertise, committee structures, and rapid means of intelligence dissemination and incorporation into oper- ational plans proved crucial to the larger war effort.  After the RAF Bomber Command's very effective attacks on the Ruhr in 1943, and once the Americans gained air supremacy in the daylight skies over the Reich in early 1944, heavy bombers engaged in three important campaigns, first against French and Belgian railroads to isolate Normandy from German reinforcements and resupply, then against Germany’s oil industry, and finally against Germany’s railroads and inland waterways. Air intelligence officers played a crucial role by giving airmen accurate insights into these campaigns’ effectiveness. The first campaign played a vital role in the collapse of German resistance in Normandy. The second had disastrous effects on German fuel production and thus on the Wehrmacht’s combat power from July 1944 to VE Day. The third  pin dae in nd One nnida rene annnames Tha ancencntas vanilts traces anata nlerm in fae Caen anes trae nine Rnnenanhina thann namnaions fea an aie intalliannan and annentinnal naccnantivn vathar than  Location 51 of 10349 1%  n