il attacks at the 25 March 1944 meeting. There is no question, looking at the wealth of available analyses, that oil attacks early in the preinvasion program would have helped almost immediately to reduce German military effectiveness. This analytical failure cost Spaatz during the 25 March 1944 meeting, as it did the attack on German oil, which started two months later than necessary, slow- ing the drive toward victory.28  If EOU mishandled several analytical issues, it did exceptionally well with the bridge-attack proposal, which also included attacks on key road junctions, rail junctions, railroad tracks in open country, and forward depots—especially fuel and ammunition. Although Spaatz chose not to bring up this plan at the 25 March 1944 meeting, he and his staff persisted in their efforts behind the scenes  Page 197 of 423 49%  easily have fit within that framework. For every gun emplacement attacked in the assault area, for example, two others were bombed beyond it. The same thing ultimately happened with bridges.*2  Zuckerman, much later in life, made it appear as though he and Tedder had been bridge-attack proponents. In a 1988 speech, he claimed his focus for the campaign had been to destroy enemy movement, whether by destroying bridges, cutting railway lines, or strafing soldiers. The aim “was to destroy movement, interrupting it as far back as possible. . . [by] the easiest and quickest ways. But all those ways were relevant and in the oveRLorp plan of bridge cutting there was a coherent plan. The OVERLORD plan . . . included the destruction of bridges but at the right time.”*4 Although Allied leaders included bridges in the transportation plan, they did so very late and after much argument. Zuckerman, in his report on transportation attacks in Italy, had argued that bridges were poor targets. Furthermore, as late as April 1944, in a paper prepared by the Enemy Objectives Unit of the United States Economic Warfare Department identifying twenty-six bridges