. This institutional maturation allowed intelligence personnel to enhance damage assessments used during successive campaigns by comparing them with captured records, POW interrogations, and testimony from workers and senior officials.  A similar process occurred during the oil offensive. As the United States Strategic Bombing Survey noted, oil experts understood that “the Germans waged World War II with oil, chemicals, rubber, and explosives made largely from coal, air, and water.”2 They also knew a campaign against oil would pay huge dividends in two ways. The first was by reducing oil and fuel production. The second was by undermining the production of nitrogen and methanol, both vital to the production of explosives and ammunition, which occurred almost entirely at synthetic oil plants. The resulting shortages of fuel and ammunition, along with the logistical disruptions caused by the transportation campaign, significantly degraded the German army’s ability to oppose Allied advances. The battles in Normandy and the east during summer 1944 involved an enormous consumption of explosives just as production dropped catastrophically and reserve stocks dwindled. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey Oil Report concluded, “Bombing of the nitrogen industry was effective and decisive. It was a byproduct of the bombing of synthetic oil.”4 In a 30 August memo to the Fiihrer, Speer warned, “The effect on the entire chemical sector has become formidable as a result of these renewed [bomber] attacks, as the most severe shortages are becoming evident, not only in fuels, but also in various important fields of chemicals,” including methanol and nitrogen for ammunition production.+  Nitrogen production dropped from 80,000 tons in April 1944 to 19,000 tons in December and to nearly nothing by April 1945. Powder production peaked at 26,000 tons in April 1944 and declined steeply from there, just as consumption reached nearly 40,000 tons per month in summer and fall. If the pr