intelligence to airmen, giving them deep insights on bombing effects and effectiveness.*® The earliest indications of this harmonious relationship were already emerging when Bomber Command began its first oil offensive in late 1940.  Page 99 of 423 25%  Colonel Vickers, deputy director of MEW, believed that the insights MEW received, and the intelligence produced from them, required a very specialized organization. Accordingly, he structured MEW into several sections in which analysts developed a deep knowledge of specific industries over a period of years. They were thus able to assess the value of new information and update their as- sessments for specific industries. Most analysts had worked, before 1939, in the industries they studied for MEW.*2  MEW analysts also proved adept at teasing intelligence from mundane sources. German press articles, for instance, provided detailed information on raw materials shortages, advertisements for jobs at new plants, and products from various factories. Government representatives of occupied countries provided many insights on their countries’ industries, building on data provided by refugees. MEW’s leadership had an agreement with the Ministry of Home Security allowing their analysts to question all refugees. A similar agreement existed for interrogation of German POWs, who often had economic insights, especially later in the war, as large numbers of skilled workers and technicians were drafted and subsequently captured. MEW representatives in neutral countries also provided intelligence gleaned from businessmen and officials who had dealings with the Reich.*4  Postal, radio, and message intercepts by cryptanalysts at Bletchley Park also proved very useful. The latter were primarily intercepts of shortwave radio communications between industrial firms on the Continent, which provided insights on the flow of components and finished goods, interruptions of deliveries by bombing, progress of repairs at damaged facilities, and t