”2°2 The air staff held to its twin tenets of bombing doctrine: that the bomber would always get through and that the success of aerial bombardment would be ensured by the selection of targets located in urban areas. Neville Jones’s reminder that the RAF used the same bombsight from 1919 to 1941 is an apt indicator of the degree to which this city-bombing mentality stunted interwar doctrinal and intelligence developments. So, too, is the fact that the first British four-engine bomber, the Short Stirling Mark I, did not arrive in large numbers until late 1941. In contrast, by 1937 both the Norden bombsight and the B-17 Flying Fortress were on their way to maturity, and both were operational when the United States entered the war.24  Aerial Photography and Photointerpretation Advances  If doctrinal development was less than impressive, advances in aerial photography—an absolutely vital technology associated with the damage-assessment process—were much more pronounced. The same dynamics as those present in the development of American bombing doctrine in the early interwar period—creativity and deep intellectual engagement in a time of low budgets and civilian disinterest—were at work. On the surface, developments in this arena bore little resemblance to key elements of the air intelligence organization during World War II. For starters, nearly all emphasis was on mapping and aerial mosaics. The employment of large and slow aircraft for this work, and of cameras optimized for taking pictures of large areas with little detail, was utterly unlike that emer- ging later to collect aerial photos.  Air intelligence analysts also fell on hard times as the organizational components of their business nearly disappeared. However, a core of intelligence staff officers, analysts, and photointerpreters stayed, providing vital continuity and expertise. Several key veterans of the Great War stayed in the air intelligence business. Photographic officers, photointerpreters, and combat i