l waste of effort. Viewed in this light, British bombing paid yet another significant dividend, even if it went unmen- tioned by air intelligence experts.42  Generalleutnant Josef Schmid, commander of I Jagdkorps, which controlled all Luftflotte Reich day and night fighters from the end of 1943 to VE Day, said after the war that Bomber Command had done little of consequence before the 1,000-plane Cologne raid in May 1942. After that, however, the systematic, increasingly accurate, and steadily heavier nature of the offensive magnified bombing’s indirect effects, as Schmid put it, to an unbearable extent. Bomber Command's expert ability to find and bomb targets by fall 1944 made the second Ruhr offensive even worse than the first. On the basis of this increasing accuracy and level of damage, Schmid believed it would only have been a matter of time before Bomber Command city attacks paralyzed the German war economy by destroying transportation nodes, doing direct damage to industries, and maximizing friction.*2 Like Speer, who said American bombing did more damage than the British, Schmid may have been catering to his interrogators, but his views are nonetheless worth considering in view of the increasing body of evidence pointing to Bomber Command's effects on the Reich’s war effort.  It is also important to remember the grand and military-strategic contexts within which Bomber Command operated. Bomber Command’s leadership had orders to carry the war to Germany—and it was the only instrument for doing so until 1944. In fact, there is clear evidence that Bomber Command's city bombing, while clearly not decisive, did create significant difficulties for German war production. In this sense, it achieved the objective set for it by the CCS. The bravery and sacrifice of Bomber Command aircrews clearly mattered, both in terms of shortening the war and shortening the Grand Alliance’s casualty lists.  Although RAF intelligence for Bomber Command raids discovered several of th