s was to obtain reports on rail centers in France, Belgium, and western Germany from ACIU F Section. Major Moody of F Section delivered detailed reports, based on the latest reconnaissance cover, for each of the seventy-three marshaling yards then on the target list. A.I.3(c) used these reports to pre- pare target dossiers.24  In January 1944, Squadron Leader Wigglesworth asked the assistant director of intelligence, photography, for reconnaissance coverage of the fifteen marshaling yards for which the TIC did not yet have adequate photographs. He reminded him that the request originated with the RRS, whose “position in relation to the Service Ministries was fixed before the war by the Committee of Imperial Defence. It was then arranged that they should be regarded as expert advisors on railway matters to all Service Ministries and to the Ministry of Economic Warfare.”2 This was significant in view of Sherrington’s dual position as head of the RRS and a senior member of MEW, the only person to occupy two such positions simultaneously. Wigglesworth’s request marked the point at which target materials development and detailed operational planning began.  On 22 January 1944, a paper from Bufton, the Air Ministry’s director of bomber operations, went out to all senior operations and intelligence personnel involved in planning the transportation campaign. It became the blueprint for an offensive against marshaling yards in France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, and western Germany from March to October 1944. The document went out under Bufton’s signature, but it had Zuckerman’s and Tedder’s fingerprints all over it. The point of departure was the paper’s assertion that “although line capacity is plentiful, motive power is short.”26 Since 1942, the Germans had commandeered 4,260 of 12,000 locomotives belonging to the French National Railroad (the Société National des Chemins du Fer, or SNCF) for use in Germany and the east. Most were heavy locomotives for pulling l