lly as Ludlow-Hewitt had recommended.*? Accordingly, the Air Ministry began major efforts to develop reconnaissance capabilities in 1936. Given the limited time remaining before the start of the war, few new capabilities were in place by September 1939. However, efforts begun in 1936 laid the groundwork for many later successes. By March 1938, the Air Ministry had responded to Ludlow-Hewitt’s calls for specialized reconnaissance aircraft, cameras to be mounted in bombers for strike photographs, and the training of photoin- terpreters to study aerial photos. The first step in this process would be to obtain photographic coverage of German targets.44  Photointelligence: Special Intelligence Service Flight and the Cotton Organization  This effort ran into two problems: signed agreements between Great Britain and Germany preventing aerial reconnaissance of one another’s territory, and the lack of an aircraft capable of flying covert, long-distance missions over Germany. The Air Ministry’s answer was to defer to SIS (MI6), which acquired intelligence by means of espionage. Wing Commander F. W. Winterbotham, commander of SIS Air Section, established a new unit, SIS Flight, in November 1938. To lead it, he hired an enterprising Australian named Sidney Cotton, whose work had a major influence on the development of  th Aden ncennSnadenn fon A nL ntaintncnentatinn 2nd Lee netanninn sManthen dawn nn cnnnnne net ann nbilitinn Aatban 2 Daven Maral Ale Onereinn Meine APB nnn fone than Conn Ula 2d 4 Liable nee nnnn £01  Page 70 of 423 19%  large part Allied bombing strategy during the war’s last two years. At the time, planners chose the Ruhr as the most vulnerable target.36 Ludlow-Hewitt and other senior officers realized, however, that even if the British developed heavy bombers capable of striking these targets, they would need photoreconnaissance machines capable of collecting air intelligence data to guide bombing campaigns.  Unit-Level Air Intelligence Developments  In Septe