o became increasingly difficult; and although they eked out small numbers of aircraft, catastrophic fuel and pilot shortages made these efforts largely pointless by July 1944, despite increases in German fighter production.  The Limits of Precision Bombing and Air Intelligence  A cautionary word is in order about precision bombing. During the October 1943 Schweinfurt raid, which was one of the most accurate of the war, 228 B-17s dropped 459 1,000-pound and 663 500-pound general-purpose bombs, and 1,751 100-pound incendiaries. Of these 2,873 weapons, approximately 256, or 8.9 percent, hit the buildings or the grounds of the three plants, which totaled 132 acres (0.25 square mile). Heavy bombers were not rapier-like weapons, nor were the bombs they carried. Both were bludgeons, designed to smash buildings and equipment by massing enough destructive force on a target to do serious damage. It is also worth noting that proper weather conditions for this kind of bombing presented themselves relatively rarely, another reason Harris believed city bombing was more consistently effective.4  One significant trend intelligence experts noted as attacks on aircraft and ball-bearing industries intensified in summer and fall 1943 was a tendency to disperse production as bomb damage increased. An RE8 assessment of repairs at eight aircraft factories attacked during the latter half of 1943 noted that repairs at Marienburg and Regensburg amounted to only 28 percent of total damage inflicted, with similar totals for the other factories. Reconnaissance coverage of the eight plants led RE8 analysts to several conclusions about what was happening within the aircraft industry as a result of USAAF bombing. First, even the most severely damaged plants, such as Marienburg, which lost 70 percent of its buildings’ square footage, received some repairs and began production again, albeit at reduced levels. Second, even light damage often prompted dispersal from a central facility to several satel