inds of damage assessments during the world wars. The first involved assessing accuracy, effects, and effectiveness during the conflict, when there was no ground access to targets (noncontact intelligence). In this instance, knowledge was most incomplete and conclusions most subject to error. Even the sophisticated Allied photoreconnaissance and photointerpretation capabilities developed by 1944 provided incomplete knowledge. Lack of direct access to targets placed limi- tations on what intelligence specialists could piece together from available sources.  The second variety was the combination of traditional reporting (noncontact intelligence) with a direct knowledge of targets gained during and after a successful military campaign in which ground forces overran bombing targets, giving ground survey teams direct access. With direct access came interrogations of enemy or liberated civilian and military personnel who kept meticulous records of damage done by each raid, level of success achieved by repair crews, bombing effects on each target, and wider effects on Germany’s war effort. These ex post facto damage assessments, conducted continuously after 1942, began in North Africa, continued with the first transportation offensive in Italy and the subsequent one in France and Belgium, and culminated with the oil offensive and the final transportation offensive against Germany. Each of these air campaigns yielded lessons air intelligence personnel applied from one to the next.  The crucial benefit derived from this ongoing air intelligence effort during the Second World War was an iterative learning process in which intelligence specialists were able to draw important lessons from each bombing campaign as it was in progress and apply those lessons to subsequent raids and campaigns. In this fashion, and with very few exceptions, bombing effects and effectiveness increased during each campaign as intelligence personnel brought new tools and insights to bear.  The third k