udiciously and carefully, with an eye toward choosing target sets likely to cause the enemy the most grievous harm. Bombing would be concerted and intensive, and it would not be stopped until key target sets were destroyed or so severely damaged as to be useless to the enemy. A deep knowledge of the available bomber force, including its capabilities and limitations, and a sense of proper timing on the part of senior airmen as to when attacks on an enemy target set would cause the greatest harm, might make the difference between success and failure. Finally, though not specifically stated, excellent damage assessments would be required to gauge effects and effectiveness.  Sherman’s Contributions  William C. Sherman, the Air Service bomber advocate who in 1926 authored one of the first comprehensive texts on air warfare, also tied bombing, and its effects on the enemy’s war economy, to the ground campaign. In assessing the importance of bombing industries, he said, “We are accustomed to think of war as being decided only on the battlefield, and indeed this is true. ... But industrial effi- ciency can give to its possessor a tremendous advantage, when at length he arrives on the battlefield. Accordingly the destruction of an enemy’s industries assumes a tremendous importance.”12  Similarly, Sherman envisioned air attacks on lines of communication, especially railroads, as a task for heavy bombers and attack (fighter-bomber) aircraft. The former, he argued, had the most important mission, namely, destruction of major marshaling yards, bridges, and viaducts, while the latter would attack moving trains. By destroying marshaling yards and thus pushing back railheads further and further from the front, heavy bombers could precipitate major enemy supply crises. Sherman therefore related bombing directly to effects on enemy ground forces and to the greater effectiveness it would give friendly armies, emphasizing “the vital importance of lines of communications, and the disast