ensive meant even less fuel went to replenish supplies in the east.+2 Efforts to counter the Red Army’s advance were stymied by fuel shortages, which manifested themselves in the much-reduced fuel increments available to heavy divisions by 1945.  Until summer 1944, the normal fuel issue to an armored division was 5 consumption units (enough to move it 310 miles over paved roads in good weather). In practice, however, this could move a division at most 200 miles in good weather over open terrain and on back roads. When weather and road conditions worsened, a division might cover as little as 125 miles.** Units received fuel allotments monthly until late summer 1944, at which point bombing-induced shortages led to the issuance of fuel quotas every ten days, then every five. Army units lived hand to mouth on these small and unreliable allotments. Given the tempo of oil attacks, fuel allocations dropped in fall 1944 from 5 consumption units to 2 or 3 for heavy divisions.*! Tanks also used three times as much fuel in muddy conditions as in dry ones, and the winter and early spring of 1945 in eastern Europe were particularly muddy as the surprise Russian winter offensive began.  The upshot of these logistical woes was a massive fuel shortage that resulted in the immobilization of 1,200 German tanks and assault guns at the Baranow bridgehead—65 percent of the 1,850 they had on the entire Eastern Front—within the first few days of the Russian offensive.*8 Albert Speer commented on the enormity of this disaster during a postwar interrogation:  We had utilized here approximately 1200 tanks for the defense and here it was for the first time that the troops had only one or two sets of supplies for fuel [fuel increments] so that the tanks were practically unable to move when the Russian attack started. To the best of my knowledge tanks were not utilized again [in large quantities] in battle. .. . In this sense one can say that your attacks in the chemical sector [synthetic oil p