aatz further stated that the transportation plan would achieve no worthwhile results. Even five weeks after the landings, he claimed, the Germans could satisfy their military rail requirements with only a fraction of available rail capacity. This was, once again, where bad EOU analysis got him into trouble. Spaatz concluded with the assertion that Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force (SHAEF), AEAF, and the air staff should produce a plan for direct tac- tical support of OVERLORD, including strong attacks on transportation and other military targets to assist its initial phases.24  For his part, Harris had long rejected any idea that the preinvasion effort should divert Bomber Command from his city bombing. His view was simply that the bomber offensive was “sound policy only if the rate of destruction is greater than the rate of repair. It is hard to estimate the extent to which Germany could recoup industrially in say a six months’ break in bombing.” “It is thus clear,” he continued,  that the best and indeed the only efficient support which Bomber Command can give to OVERLORD is the intensification of attacks on suitable industrial areas in Germany ... when the opportun- ity offers. If we attempt to substitute for this process attacks on gun emplacements, beach defences, communications or dumps in occupied territory we shall commit the irremediable error of diverting our best weapon from the military function, for which it has been equipped and trained, to tasks which it cannot carry out. This might give some specious appearance of “supporting” the army, in reality it would be the gravest disservice we could do them. It would lead directly to disaster.  Page 200 of 423 49%  — a re Sa Europe’s dense road and rail networks. Consequently, their first plan, designed during the last half of 1943, was intended to delay movement of enemy forces attempting to reinforce the Normandy battle area. Their objective was to force German reinforcements to detrain at lea