m to RAF units. Thus, although the RAF School of Interpretation at Farnborough opened in 1922, the army provided all its instructors and pupils until 1938. When the Air Ministry saw the need for more photointerpreters in March 1938 and founded a section, A.I.1(h), to address this requirement, RAF officers began training at Farnborough. When war broke out, there were six trained officers at HQ Bomber Command and a few more assigned to bomber units.“4  There were also promising developments with aircraft and cameras. Harry Stringer, the foremost British authority on aerial cameras and a pioneer along with F. C. V. Laws, was already experiment- ing with camera mountings in the fuselage and wings of a crashed Spitfire when Cotton approached him in fall 1939 to ask for assistance outfitting his first two Spitfires. As a result of Stringer’s efforts.  Page 73 of 423 19%  Se ee  - EO a product of this collaborative effort. The adoption three months later of a specially modified Supermarine Spitfire as the RAF’s primary photoreconnaissance platform, within a flying un unit soon to be  known as the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit (PRU), revolutionized RAF capabilities and paid huge dividends for the Allied war effort. The PRU had its genesis in an Air Ministry decision to take Cot- ton’s SIS Flight into the RAF once the war began.  a ee  Centralizing Photoreconnaissance and Photointerpretation  Just as important as Cotton's and Longbottom’s ideas about photoreconnaissance was Cotton's recognition that the RAF needed a new kind of photointerpretation capability to maximize the value of the high-resolution aerial photographs beginning to pour into British intelligence agencies. Cotton argued for an organization with a centralized photo processing and readout capability, specialized photo interpretation by target categories, and a centralized reconnaissance collection management function to satisfy all requests from military and civilian intelligence organizations. These all b