g the following four days caused moderate or light damage and destroyed a number of wagons and locomotives. The rate of destruction, particularly for wagons and engines, far outpaced repairs. Reconnaissance also confirmed the locomotive repair depots formerly at Amiens and Creil had been transferred to Crepy-en-Valois, Compiégne, and Le Bourget, which prompted raids there  Attacks on 14-20 April were the first carried out under Eisenhower’s bombing directive. Of the ten, two caused severe (category A) damage, three caused moderate (category B) damage, and five missed. The two category A raids caused severe damage to Charleroi/St. Martin and Juvisy. At Charleroi, on 18 April, one roundhouse was destroyed and the other severely damaged. All other structures were heavily damaged, all through tracks cut, and a large number of wagons destroyed. At Juvisy, which was attacked on 18-19 April, heavy bombers obliterated the transshipment and locomotive sheds and destroyed a large number of locomotives and wagons.442  This growing catalog of destruction soon included marshaling yards in western Germany, with Aachen and Hamm suffering severe damage from raids on 11-12 and 22 April. Aachen was down for nearly two weeks, and Hamm never fully recovered. Fritz Knickenberg, chief inspector of the Hamm railway district, said the 22 April raid was the worst of the war, blanketing the facility with 1,251 craters. No trains moved for two days, and traffic was 8 percent of normal a week later. He said, “On a normal day we handled 7,000 to 10,000 trucks; 70 or 80 passenger trains went through in both directions in twenty-four hours. After the April raid we were glad to get six or seven trains through after 5,000 men had been busy day and night for forty-eight hours. To return to anything like a timetable meant continuous work for 4 weeks.”12 The raid destroyed the engine shed, a control tower, and many wagons. Some of these, loaded with ammunition, caused huge secondary explosions and fir