d on a need for an automatic bombsight and formed a bomb subcommittee to develop proper ordnance for a future war. They reached agreement on the need for six bomb types: 18-pound antipersonnel, 30-pound and 50-pound generalpurpose, 250-pound and 500-pound high-explosive and incendiary, and 2,000-pound antiship bombs.  Despite the utility of large bombs in the Great War, the Air Ministry continued to dismiss their importance. Air Chief Marshal Sir Robert Brooke-Popham recommended the 250-pound bomb be standard RAF ordnance and all smaller munitions be discarded, and he pushed for development of bombs up to 2,000 pounds and aircraft with bomb racks capable of carrying them, but Air Ministry officers demurred. Instead, they asserted, “the result of air action is, to some extent, dependent upon the number of bombs dropped rather than on their size. Furthermore, the chances of hitting a given target are greatly increased by dropping four distributed bombs instead of two. . . . It is thought that the majority of factories, for instance, would be affected to a greater extent by four 120-lb. bombs than by two 250-Ib. bombs.”= The Air Ministry also dismissed recommendations for 1,000-pound and 1,500-pound bombs, saying they would reduce the performance of heavy bombers then on the drawing boards. Brooke-Popham, inspector general of the RAF and one of the very few people who read Air Ministry files from the Great War, replied that evidence from 1917 to 1918 pointed to the greater effectiveness of large bombs, noting that engineers designing the new bombers had told him they could easily modify their designs to accommodate larger munitions. The bomb subcom- mittee ignored him and reaffirmed the 1932 decision to produce no bombs larger than 500 pounds.£  Equally odd was the committee’s lethargic engagement with two issues fundamental to British bombing: an advanced bombsight and a four-engine heavy bomber. The first of these received mention at the twelfth meeting on 6 November