tion, and I hope that you will give the very greatest weight [to oil as the highest-priority target set]2%  Having presumably gotten Harris’s attention, Portal closed with a warning: “In view of the vital importance of getting the German war finished as soon as possible and of the disastrous delay that would result from any substantial recovery of the German oil position, I make no apology for inflicting this letter upon you, and I trust that you will accept it as a sincere attempt to discharge a not al- together pleasant duty.”122  Portal opined that Harris would have selected the oil plant at Gelsenkirchen “if the greater importance of the Ruhr and its oil had been fully recognized.” In other words, Harris should have paid attention to intelligence pouring in from all quarters on the effectiveness of oil attacks.1“° Portal said, at the risk of being dubbed “another panacea merchant,” that he wanted Harris to attack oil. “Having risked your wrath already,” he continued,  and in pursuance of my strong desire that we should understand each other may I ask you to let me know why you think I am wrong on this particular point. It may be of course that you are relying on G.H. [Gee-H, a radar bombing aid] by day for the destruction of oil and that you intend to concentrate on area attacks by night even in clear weather. If you tell me this is so it will en- able me to follow your operations much more intelligently though I do not say now that I should agree with the policy without further study. .. . I feel that the whole war situation is poised on “oil” as on a knife edge and that by a real concentration of effort at this time we might push it over on the right side.142 Harris responded immediately, claiming he appreciated the urgency and effectiveness of the oil plan. His constant effort, he protested, was to get the best results possible from every sortie. However, he continued, “oil targets are small and usually outlying... we have always regarded it as virtually frui