CIU K Section prepared the 1:5,000 scale prints with grid overlay.  . CIU K Section noted building types damaged (residential, commercial, and industrial) and the cause of damage (blast, fire, or both) on the 1:5,000 maps.  . CIU K Section prepared a detailed bomb plot showing all known bomb impacts in built-up areas of the city.  . CIU K Section traced and measured areas of damage and noted the zone boundaries (dividing lines between residential, commercial, and industrial areas of the city) on the 1:5,000 scale photographs.  . RE8 confirmed damage by building categories and type, placing all damage data on punch cards for future reference (an indication they were using early computers to do some of their dataprocessing and statistical work).  6. RE8 estimated damage to utilities.  7. RE8 made adjustments in damage estimates for cloud cover and incomplete photographic coverage of the target area.  8. RE8 measured damage level in terms of lost man-hours.  9. MEW estimated the effect of the raid on the enemy’s overall war effort. 10. RE8 circulated the finished report and Bomber Command Int. 1 built anew damage dossier or updated an existing one if a city had been attacked earlier.  PWNHeH  wu  The end results were a comprehensive damage assessment and a new or updated damage dossier that brought this effort to a very high level of precision, notwithstanding the intelligence gaps and imponderables associated with city raids.*  Tha nenllaw eith thin nnnenanh Af anienn eran ite In ahiliter ta a dint fae thanan wane a nA Inanndaneablan Ann Af tL wenntantnlenacinn Ananitn affavts ta nrantifer it ith tha man Laven TaAnt neannnce  Page 126 of 423 32%  as a manpower to do it. All agreed to this suggestion. The MEW ‘representative said he and his colleagues viewed the RES process as a huge improvement for damage assessments and that MEW could now express raid effects in terms of percentage loss of productivity for an entire city, and possibly to measure productivity losses f