g was reached. All the way from near the Danish 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Report. 2 See Map 4.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 180 DAY ATTACK AND NEW NIGHT CONDITIONS 181 coast the Lancasters were accurately plotted by German radar and considerable numbers of night fighters were brought into action. The burden of their attacks fell upon a second force of Lancasters from the Pathfinder Force and 1, 3 and 6 Groups which, curiously enough, was following the 5 Group force an hour later and heading by a similar route for Stettin. Nevertheless, the 5 Group Lancasters ran into stiff fighter opposition over Königsberg itself. Moreover, large amounts of cloud at the target complicated the visual marking and, in fact, delayed the attack for twenty minutes. Eventually, however, all these difficulties were overcome and a brilliant attack was carried out. From the despatched force of 189 Lancasters, it is certain that not more than 175 attacked the target. Yet this relatively small number of bombers wrought tremendous havoc in Königsberg. Forty-one per cent of all the buildings and twenty per cent of the industrial buildings in the town were seen to be seriously damaged. On the basis of photographic reconnaissance it appeared that 134,000 people had been made homeless and that another 61,000 had had their homes damaged.1 Results of this kind against so distant a target would hardly have been achieved a year earlier by 1,000 bombers. Such was the developing power of area attack produced by greater marking and bombing accuracy. Major results could now be achieved by minor forces, but at the same time the crumbling Ger- man air defences made it possible once more to contemplate the use of major forces. When that was done, as will be seen in due course, the results were to be catastrophic. The success of area attacks, like the one against Königsberg which has just been mentioned, did not depend upon the introduction of new weapons. In the Königsberg operation the attacking force dropped about