ten into the original appreciations did not always reappear in the operative summaries of them. The general tendency towards the dispersal of the strategic air offensive and the dilution of its aims was due not merely to the differences of opinion which existed about what should be done, or about what could be done, but more particularly to the almost equal authority of those differences of opinion. As Sir Arthur Harris put it, there were too many fingers in the bomber pie. The system of command and direction under which Bomber Com- mand functioned was, in addition to being complicated and diffuse, significantly changed on several occasions during the war. Indeed, almost the only constant lay in the position of the Commander-in- Chief himself. But, at least in theory, the Commander-in-Chief had severely restricted powers. He was responsible for the handling of the force and the operational decision was his. The strategic respon- sibility lay elsewhere. Moreover, Bomber Command consisted almost exclusively of bombers. The Commander-in-Chief had no authority to give orders to fighter, maritime, or tactical squadrons which, in the metropolitan air force, were each under separate command. In no other theatre was a similar distinction made between the various components of the same thing. In the metropolitan air force the two principal concomitants of air power, the fighters and the bombers, were not given a unified command and seldom achieved unity in operations. The reasons given were that these concomitants were too diffuse and complicated for such unification and that in any case, the Chief of the Air Staff had his office in London. But neither of these somewhat contradictory reasons can be accepted as wholly convincing. Equally diffuse and complicated commands in other theatres and in other kinds of armed force were, in fact, successfully discharged during the war. General Spaatz com- 305 manded the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe. They were based at po