bridges in the rest of the perimeter that surrounded it. Targets in the other areas would only be regarded as filler targets when the weather or other circumstances prevented the carrying on of the main attack.1 No objection was raised by the C.S.T.C. to this plan which, indeed, made no greater demands on the strategic air forces than they were already undertaking. The Air Commanders, however, had also to be consulted and their approval was not obtained until 18th February.2 The attack was to some extent diverted from its main purpose by the large-scale operation known as Clarion, an attack on small centres all over western and even central Germany with the hope that this would much intensify the demoralisation of the people and the disintegration of the German economy. This plan, in which the British intelligence services had placed little faith, did not in fact accomplish very much.3 But the more concentrated attack on the Ruhr approaches then began. It was, comments the British survey, 'the first railway offen- sive that was carried out with the full support of all the planning bodies concerned. ... ' 4 It had immediate success. On 22nd February three arches in the Bielefeld viaduct were destroyed by Bomber Command, and though its destruction was not finally completed until 14th March but little traffic got through in the meantime. On 19th March the Arnsberg viaduct was also destroyed and all three main routes had been made unusable. Meanwhile the tactical air forces had steadily pursued their programme of interdiction and by 24th March the Ruhr was completely sealed off from the rest of Germany. This was no more than a week before the land forces surrounded it. Nevertheless, even before the Ruhr was cut off the attack on communications had had devastating effect on the whole of the German economy. Little coal had got out of the Ruhr and every- where industry was demanding coal from central Germany and the Sudetenland and from such stocks as still existed. This c