orce. Moreover, air superiority was not simply a question of being able to use the air for the purposes of the strategic bombing offensive. It was also a question of being able to use it for all other necessary pur- poses, including those of air support to the armies and navies, and of being able to deny the enemy any decisive use of it. In fact, for as long as the German fighter force was in effective operational being the Luftwaffe was able to deny the allies the air superiority which they sought as a prerequisite not only to the strategic bombing offensive but also to the invasion of the Continent. The ulterior aim of the strategic air offensive was to damage the sources of German power to such an extent that her armed forces would be unable to resist the allied military invasion, but an inevitable concomitant of this aim was seen to be that of reducing the strength of the German fighter force. 293 This was a formidable proposition. Neither the night bombers of Bomber Command nor the day bombers of the United States Eighth Air Force were able to engage the German fighters in equal combat in the air nor, as the Germans improved their air defences, were they able even to protect themselves adequately from fighter interception. Neither the Royal Air Force nor the United States Army Air Forces had equipped themselves with long-range fighters capable of redress- ing this adverse balance and, in consequence, the only way of dealing with it seemed to be by concentrating a heavy and selective attack against the industrial sources upon which the German fighter force depended for its production and operation. In this way the whole question of air superiority came to be associ- ated with the policy of selective as opposed to general bombing. Thus, a major part of the strategy of the Combined Bomber Offensive came to be devoted to the aim of destroying the German fighter force in being. This was the position which had been reached by the middle of 1943 when the famous Pointb