ary of State thought, more important than another which Sir Arthur Harris had raised, namely, that the Bomber Command crews might form the impression that they were being asked to per- form deeds which the Air Ministry was ashamed to admit.1 Sir Arthur Harris himself, however, frequently made the objects of the bombing offensive clear, and there accordingly sometimes appeared to be a difference between his conception of legitimate war- fare and that of the Government and Air Staff. As Lord Salisbury put it to Sir Archibald Sinclair in November 1943, the resolve of Sir Arthur Harris that the Battle of Berlin should continue until the 'heart of Nazi Germany ceases to beat' seemed to 'bring us short up against the repeated Government declarations that we are bombing only military or industrial targets'. 2 These moral issues are likely to continue long to be debated, and the verdicts will doubtless to some extent be conditioned by the cir- cumstances of the ages in which they are reached. It should now, nevertheless, be clear that neither the Air Staff nor Sir Arthur Harris 1 Min. Sinclair to Portal, 28th Oct. 1943. For examples of Sir Archibald Sinclair's public pronouncements on bombing policy see his speeches and answers to questions in the House of Commons and especially those on 6th May 1942, 31st March 1943 and Ist December 1943. Parliamentary Debates. Commons. Vol. 379, Col. 1364; Vol. 388, Col. 155; Vol. 395, Cols. 337-338. 2 Letter Salisbury to Sinclair, 26th Nov. 1943. II7 can justly be accused of waging war in a different moral sense from that approved by the Government. Moreover, it should equally be clear that at no stage of the war was the area bombing offensive wan- ton. On the contrary, it was a carefully designed strategic plan in- tended to contribute to the most rapid and the most economical defeat of Germany. Though the area offensive, even in the light of the various operational circumstances, is open to many strategic criticisms, it is difficult to