phase of great significance in the development of active counter-measures to the German air defences. In the remainder of this section it is, therefore, intended to examine the progress which occurred in the period between March and June in the development of counter- measures to the German air defences and in that of precision bomb- ing techniques at night. These developments and the loss of territory to Germany which followed them were, as has just been suggested, to become the operational foundation of the final offensive. Counter-measures against the German air defences had a history which was as long as that of the bombing offensive. There was a strict limit to what could be achieved to minimise the hazards of flak and searchlights. Their radar direction could be tampered with, as indeed it was, by the use of Window, but, apart from that, the only profitable course was evasion by careful routing and high flying, and, when the barrage had to be faced, the use of concentration which, at any rate, made it difficult for the Germans to sight individual targets. The greater hazard caused by the night fighters was, however, more susceptible to interference of various kinds. The developing tactics of evasion and deception as well as the more active measures of radio jamming and, by the use of Window, radar swamping have been noticed in earlier chapters. An even more active measure, the intro- duction of long-range fighter support, provided by Serrate aircraft of Fighter Command, has also, in its initial stages, been examined. By March 1944, however, it had become apparent that these measures had either exhausted themselves or were being applied on an inadequate scale. The high rate of Bomber Command casualties made that abundantly apparent. Towards the end of 1943 a special group, 100, had, it is true, been formed in Bomber Command for the specific purpose of 'combating the enemy night defence organisation by means of: (a) Countermeasures (b) Offensive Night Fighters.'