e strategic bombing offensive it need not be related in any detail here. Suffice it to say that by devious methods he defied his leader and helped to prevent the execution of the 'scorched earth' policy by which, with the active assistance of Ley, Goebbels and Bormann, Hitler tried to destroy all Germany in the final stages of the war. This Speer gave as the reason why he still talked publicly of averting complete defeat. Had he not done so he might have driven the Gauleiters into a policy of desperation. It is hard to explain why he was allowed to go on, even to withdraw his resignation after he had made it and resume control of the destructive work in order to be the better able to prevent it. There is evidence that with the assistance of the army leaders and some sensible Gauleiters he had much success in defeating Hitler's diabolical plans. He himself said that by this time all reasonable men were on his side and ready to defy the orders that came from headquarters. In addition he did everything that he could to preserve the two essentials, food and transport. He diverted such nitrogen as remained back to fertilisers and gave agricultural machinery priority in pro- duction.2 On 16th April he prepared a speech to the nation stating that the war was lost and they must endeavour to preserve the essentials of existence.3 Meanwhile, the industrialists, the Army, the workers and the mass of the people struggled on in hopeless con- fusion like some mortally wounded creature whose spasmodic motions continue long after real life has left its body. In the midst of this appalling disaster Speer still retained a personal loyalty to the man whom he said that he had planned to murder and whose pathological fury in extremis he had for months con- demned. He was one of the last Ministers to visit the sordid scene in which Hitler passed his last days and he has stated that he was ready to remain with him to the end if Hitler had wished him to do so. This was, perhaps, partly bec