er or tactical conditions made it impossible to attack the primary targets. One was intended to be a concentrated blow of calamitous proportions. The other was a continuation of the 1 American draft directive attached as enclosure to J.C.S. memo. of 13th Sept. 1944. 2 Memo. C.O.S. for C.C.S., 14th Sept. 1944. C.C.S. Mtg., 14th Sept. 1944. 3 Dir. Portal and Arnold to Bottomley and Spaatz, 14th Sept. 1944, App. 8 (xxxix). 63 war of attrition. Thus, the Octagon directive, as it was called, shed little light upon the major issues of bombing policy, and its import- ance seemed to be largely confined to the formal announcement which it contained, of the new command organisation. But even this was of less significance than might be supposed. General Eisenhower's powers of demand and control in matters re- lating to the direct air support of the armies were, as will have been noted, carefully preserved, but, though the formal arrangements appeared to eliminate the influence of Sir Arthur Tedder over the direction of strategic bombing policy, this was not by any means the actual effect which they had. On 13th September 1944, the day be- fore he received the Octagon directive, Sir Norman Bottomley met Sir Arthur Tedder and Air Vice-Marshal Robb, the Deputy Chief of Staff (Air) at the Supreme Headquarters of the Allied Expeditionary Force, and General Spaatz at the latter's headquarters. It was agreed that the strategic air offensive should be directed firstly against oil, secondly against communications, and thirdly, in certain circum- stances, against the Luftwaffe. The communications campaign was to consist partly of tactical operations near the fighting front but also of strategic attacks on targets, including vehicle production, deep in Germany. Special attacks on the Luftwaffe were to take place only if the oil and communications operations failed to produce an adequate German air reaction and, therefore, an adequate Luftwaffe casualty rate.1 This agreement, in which Sir