ed position of combats with German fighters X o Le Culot Florennes O Leverkusen ° Cologne In addition, 4 Mosquitoes were despatched to Leverkusen, 4 to Florennes airfield, 2 to Cologne, and 5 to Le Culot airfield on experimental and training operations. Estimated position of combats with German fighters by Bomber Support aircraft  Map 5 Night Photographs KÖNIGSBERG 29th-30th August 1944 5 GROUP ATTACK Scale 3 MILES 2 As all cameras are tilted, symbols indicate the approximate position of the first bomb in the stick + DAY ATTACK AND NEW NIGHT CONDITIONS 179 made the bombing offensive much cheaper but it also made it much more efficient. Fewer of the crews were shot down and, therefore, more of them lived to acquire a high degree of operational experience for which, in training, there could be no adequate substitute. Fewer aircraft were harassed en route to their targets and, therefore, more of them got there. Fewer bombing runs were marred by fighter inter- ception and, therefore, more bombs were accurately aimed. Lighter casualties also, of course, led to greater confidence both in the com- manders who directed the attacks and in the crews who carried them out. Air superiority thus added new powers to Bomber Command and, perhaps, above all, it released the whole latent strength of the force which had been maturing over the years. For Bomber Com- mand this was a triumph. For Germany it was an irretrievable disaster. + Air superiority was, of course, the absolute and constant guarantee of nothing and night bombing still suffered its set-backs and pro- duced its disappointments. The 5 Group attack on Darmstadt on the night of 25th August, for example, was an almost total failure. The target was to have been marked by the low-level visual tech- nique, but the plan was vitiated by a series of misfortunes. The master bomber was forced to return early by an electrical defect in his aircraft and both the deputy master bombers were shot down before they reached the target. T