to more general service and they marked another advance in the struggle with the weather and in the effort to increase the accuracy of bombing. The German day fighter force had been largely neutralised by the associated action of the United States day bombers and long-range fighters and the German night fighter force could no longer operate effectively or consistently since it had lost the bulk of its early warn- ing infrastructure. Both forces were also now acutely short of fuel for training and even for operational purposes. Thus, as a factor in preventing concentration and in delimiting the gulf between what could and what ought to be done, the operational limitations of the allied bomber force had become appreciably less important. But the differences of opinion between those with the power to influence the course of bombing policy had become correspondingly more important. As far as Bomber Command was immediately concerned, the power of direction was, as has been seen, principally divided between Sir Charles Portal, Sir Arthur Tedder and Sir Arthur Harris, with the result, as has also been seen, that there were three principal poli- cies before Bomber Command, namely, the oil plan, the communica- tions plan and the general area offensive. The first two were not, however, necessarily alternatives since both could be carried out, at least in substantial measure, at the same time. The difficulty raised by these two plans was really not so much that of deciding between them but that of appraising a target system as complicated as com- munications.1 Such differences of opinion as existed between Sir Charles Portal and Sir Arthur Tedder were, therefore, not the cause of fundamental disadvantage. On the contrary, their nature was shown by the ultimate outcome of the final offensive to have been particularly fortunate. The issue between Sir Charles Portal and Sir Arthur Harris was, however, quite different. A certain amount of area bombing was, of course, inevitable if