ely to be of the greatest importance was put forward in these words: 'Immense devastation could be produced if the entire attack was concentrated on a single big town other than Berlin and the effect would be especially great if the town was one hitherto relatively undamaged'.1 These proposals were approved by the Chiefs of Staff on 5th August 1944 and General Eisenhower was invited 'to prepare plans for an attack on Berlin on the lines suggested in the memorandum by the Chief of the Air Staff'.2 In the event, however, as will duly be seen, another 'hitherto relatively undamaged' town was preferred and when the blow of 'catastrophic force' came to be delivered it fell not on Berlin, but on Dresden. Though this did not take place until Feb- ruary 1945 and though, as will also presently be seen, the Anglo- American desire to assist the Russian land campaign had by that time added a powerful motive for the selection of that particular town, it is necessary now to grasp the full implication of this Air Staff memorandum which may be regarded, if only indirectly, as the title deed of that controversial operation. 1 Memo. Portal for C.O.S., Ist Aug. 1944. 2 C.O.S. Mtg., 5th Aug. 1944, Item 5. S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-E  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 56 OIL, COMMUNICATIONS AND MORALE Much of its significance will already have become evident, and it will be seen that in some respects it constituted a severe judgement by the Air Staff upon the strategic reasons which had led to the adop- tion by Bomber Command of the policy of general area attack. It did clearly suggest that in a long-drawn-out war of attrition, such as Bomber Command had been waging since 1940, German morale was unlikely to be decisively affected by the destruction of cities unless the situation was for other reasons already desperate. It even suggested that the discharge of twenty thousand tons of bombs on the centre of Berlin within the space of seventy-two hours would, in the absence of that condition, have lit