ich night bombing attacks by existing methods and types of heavy bomber would involve percentage casualty rates which could not in the long run be sustained. We have not', he said, 'yet reached that point, but tactical innovations which have so far postponed it are now practically exhausted. Remedial action is therefore an urgent operational matter which cannot be deferred without grave risk. Already the cost of attacking targets in the Berlin area under weather conditions which give good prospects of accurate and concentrated bombing is too high to be incurred with any frequency.' One solution, which, as Sir Arthur Harris knew, had occurred to the Air Staff, was the adoption of daylight bombing in which the 1 100 Group Review. The pilot of the Mosquito which claimed six German aircraft was Wing Commander Braham. He had also secured by far the best results in the period of Serrate operations in Fighter Command before the formation of 100 Group. 2 A new and remarkable device, the Automatic Gun Laying (Turret) (A.G.L.(T)), known to Bomber Command as Village Inn, was under development. It automatically sighted and fired at enemy aircraft, but by the time of the German surrender it had been used on such a limited scale as to make no difference.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 148 PRECISION BOMBING AT NIGHT established protection of American air superiority could be gained. But Sir Arthur Harris did not believe in this solution. Even Lancasters could not fly in formation at altitudes greater than eighteen or nine- teen thousand feet, and at these heights 'flak would be lethal and would more than compensate for the losses which the fighter escort might be expected to save.' 'The only remedy,' Sir Arthur Harris said, 'therefore, is the provision of night fighter support on a substantial scale, and it is considered that a total minimum of ten night fighter Mosquito squadrons should forthwith be placed at the disposal of 100 Group to satisfy this requirement.' He did not regard it a