the whole of the German economy. Little coal had got out of the Ruhr and every- where industry was demanding coal from central Germany and the Sudetenland and from such stocks as still existed. This condition was made progressively worse in March and completed in April by the tactical air forces, which ranged over Germany without meeting any effective opposition and made movement both by rail and road almost impossible in large areas. No methods have been found to measure precisely the effect of 1 Review of Working Cttee. (Communications), and Plan, 10th Feb. 1945 2 Mins. of 16th and 18th Mtgs. of C.S.T.C., 2nd and 14th Feb. 1945. 3 Review of Working Cttee. (Communications). An account of it is given in The Army Air Forces in World War II, Vol. III, pp. 731-735, which confirms the estimate of the Working Committee. 4 B.B.S.U. The Strategic Air War, p. 132.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 256 THE ATTACK ON COMMUNICATIONS this devastating strategic offensive on the production of armaments and the means of resistance of the German armies. Full statistics do not exist and those that do exist have obviously been compiled under conditions which must make them more inaccurate than those of previous periods. The destruction of telephone and telegraph wires and many of the administrative offices of the Reichsbahn made it impossible to compile overall statistics of the whole system. 'Hence', the United States survey concludes, 'the degree of chaos prevailing in the first quarter of 1945 cannot be reduced to systematic measure- ment at all.' 1 It is possible, however, from the records of some of the divisions of the Reichsbahn and from that of industrial firms to form a fairly complete picture of the kind of effect that was being produced on industry during this period. But, even then, it has to be remembered that the decline in production was due to a number of causes of which the strategic attack on communications was only one, if a major one. Such attempts as have been made to e