nce. 2 Speer showed by his letter to Hitler in January that he had now lost all hope of increasing the supply of oil since no production could 1 Report Speer to Hitler, 19th Jan. 1945, see App. 32 (v). This is confirmed by the United States team in a detailed study, U.S.S.B.S. Oil Division Final Report (No. 109), pp. 134-135. This was true of attacks on refineries as well as on the synthetic oil plants as was shown by a detailed examination of the large refinery at Misburg. do. p. 82. 2 Oil in the German War Effort, U.S.S.B.S. The Impact of the Allied Air Effort on German Logistics (No. 64a), pp. 69-71.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS THE ATTACK ON OIL 236 be expected from the underground plants for several months. He had other outstanding difficulties. The attack on communications had begun to exert its effect on the supply of armaments and to affect the whole economy of the Reich. But another factor which affected even more directly the defence was the shortage of explosives. This was a direct result of the attack on oil quite unforeseen by those directing it.1 They had not realised that the injury to the nitrogen plants would affect the production of explosives to such an extent. The manufacture of explosives was mainly centred in or near the oil plants so as to use the nitrogen produced there which in some of the larger plants could be employed either as the raw material for oil or for explosives. Leuna and Oppau (near Ludwigshafen) pro- duced half the total supply. Since the same basic material was used to produce agricultural fertilisers, M.E.W. had always considered that any reductions in its production would fall on agriculture and not on explosives. This was true enough in the early stages of the war but not so in this period because of faulty planning and the fact that Germany no longer obtained the 30,000 tons a year produced in occupied territories. The supply for agriculture was, indeed, drastically cut down, but that for explosives had also to be greatly re