e air forces to direct their attacks where they could produce the most effect. Here also there were naturally some errors, but the priorities recommended were generally those which would best reward a successful attack. Though the final campaign against the oil targets of the greater Reich did not begin until May 1944, the work of appreciation had been continued with unremitting zeal and energy through 1943 and the early part of 1944. The committees had to deal with a deter- mined German effort to increase the supply of oil and especially the supply of aviation spirit. If the result was far below what had at one time been considered necessary, much was done and plans were made which would mature in 1944. This situation was on the whole well understood by the oil committees even though they made some mistakes in their calculations. Since the decision not to attack oil in this earlier period was made largely on operational grounds, it is not necessary to review their reports in any detail. On two important points they made very successful assessments. They were fully aware of the extension in the Bergius hydrogenation plants and the position of the new ones though they did not realise that two of these were designed rather to increase the supply of explosives than that of petrol.1 They were also very near the mark in their estimates of the amount of Rumanian oil produced and the proportion of it allotted to Germany itself and to its allied armies on the Eastern front. On the other hand, now as always, they grossly overestimated the production of the Fischer-Tropsch synthetic plants as 1,300,000 tons per annum while the correct figure was 500,000 tons. The amount of oil produced by the refineries from crude oil was also overestimated. Thus, they thought that the German supply was about one million tons greater than it really was. Fortunately a mistake of almost similar magnitude was made about the consumption of oil. The two errors tended to cancel each other out and t