the nine aircraft of Bomber Command which failed to return were shot down by flak or in some cases, perhaps, brought down by bombs from friendly bombers. All three attacks, and especially those on Kamen and Castrop Rauxel, achieved considerable accuracy.1 The way, at least to the Ruhr, was now clearly open to Bomber Command in daylight. Sir Arthur Harris' wish to have the escorting fighters under his own command was not gratified, but despite this and despite the fact that the Spitfires and Tempests were, on these occasions, oper- ating at the very limit of their range, the substantial fighter cover provided was more than adequate to hold off the practically non- existent reactions of the German fighter force, which, of course, though with scarcely more success, was at the same time contending with the deeper penetrations of American fighters and bombers. In these circumstances, the poor armament, limited ceiling and some- what loose formation tactics of the Lancasters and Halifaxes were of no ill-consequence and a most convincing demonstration of the meaning of daylight air superiority was given. From the 803 sorties despatched by Bomber Command in these five daylight operations, only ten bombers failed to return and none of these was shot down by an enemy fighter. The attacks had also achieved a considerable degree of success. Particularly heavy damage had been done to the centre of Emden and to the oil plants at Kamen and Castrop Rauxel. Moreover, the operations against the oil plants at Homberg and Gelsenkirchen had by no means been failures. But all these attacks had been carried out by visual bombing upon target indicators laid by the Pathfinder 1 Bomber Cmd. Interception/Tactics Reports, 10th and 16th Sept. 1944, Photographic Interpretation Reports, 22nd, 13th and 14th Sept. 1944.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 172 DAY ATTACK AND NEW NIGHT CONDITIONS 173 Force. They had, therefore, depended upon the reasonably clear weather which had, in fact, been encountered on ea