al now suggested, was concerned with broader matters. 'In the closing paragraphs of your letter of Ist November', Sir Charles Portal wrote: 'you refer to a plan for the destruction of the 60 leading German cities, and to your efforts to keep up with, and even to exceed, your average of 21 such cities devastated each month; I know that you have long felt such a plan to be the most effective way of bringing about the collapse of GERMANY. Knowing this, I have, I must confess, at times wondered whether the magnetism of the remaining German cities has not in the past tended as much to deflect our bombers from their primary objectives as the tactical and weather difficulties which you described so fully in your letter of Ist November. I would like you to reassure me that this is not so. If I knew you to be as wholehearted in the attack of oil as in the past you have been in the matter of attacking cities I would have little to worry about.'1 These direct expressions of view by Sir Charles Portal which were supplemented by official communications from the Air Staff, and notably by one of 13th November 1944 in which an attempt was made to convince Sir Arthur Harris that effective damage could be done to the oil plants at Leuna and Pölitz without suffering pro- hibitive casualties, did have some effect.2 In November a consider- ably greater proportion of the Bomber Command effort was devoted to the oil campaign than had been the case in October, and the ton- nage of bombs dropped on oil targets in the later month was, in fact, about four times more than in the earlier.3 This was not, however, sufficient to push the issue of the war 'over on the right side'. 1 Letter Portal to Harris, 12th Nov. 1944. 2 Letter Bottomley to Harris, 13th Nov. 1944, App. 27. 3 Proportions of bomb tonnages (long tons) aimed at oil targets in October and November 1944 by Bomber Command, the Eighth Air Force and Fifteenth Air Force were as follows: Tonnage on Oil Targets Percentage Total Bomb Tonnag