ad become convinced that there was a target system whose attack would fulfil the three basic require- ments which he had stated. This was German oil, and particularly petrol production. To General Spaatz, the achievement of air superiority was not only a question of attack upon aircraft factories and aerodromes. It was also a question of combat in the air. He was not concerned only with the destruction of the Luftwaffe in production and on the base. He also sought its defeat in the air and with the increasing numbers of P.51 1 Plan for the completion of the Combined Bomber Offensive, 5th March 1944. This plan was submitted by General Spaatz to General Eisenhower and Sir Charles Portal. Also relevant is General Spaatz's memorandum on employment of air forces in support of Overlord, 24th March 1944. S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-C  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 24 BASES OF VICTORY AND DISSENSION Mustangs which he now disposed, this latter task was one which he could at last contemplate with some optimism. General Spaatz was, therefore, constantly seeking to produce the conditions for air combat. For this reason he believed that any major target system to be attacked must be one which the Germans would feel compelled to defend with all their resources. Oil seemed to him to be such a target system. General Spaatz also, of course, knew that the successful attack on oil would itself be a factor in bringing down the Luftwaffe. From the point of view of the achievement and maintenance of air superiority, oil was, indeed, an incomparable target. The destruction of oil targets might, however, portend even more than the dislocation of the Luftwaffe. It might gradually lead to the downfall of Germany altogether. It was, therefore, a target system which offered the heavy bombers the continued prospect of achieving an outright victory. In the meantime, however, General Spaatz con- cluded that a reduction of oil supply would have first an inhibiting and then a crippling effect upon the Germa