ail and canal communications. The oil plan, Sir Arthur Tedder now admitted, in addition to restricting air movement, was the key to the paralysis of the roads, but the railways and canals could be directly attacked, as, in the former case, they had been in France and, in the latter, when the banks of the Dortmund-Ems Canal had more recently been successfully breached. Sir Arthur Tedder did not think it necessary to spread these opera- tions all over Germany. The main strategic concentration should, he thought, be against the rail centres, oil plants, canal system and centres of population in the Ruhr. Similar targets could be selected in the areas of the middle and upper Rhine so that the offensive could continue when the weather over the Ruhr was impossible. These strategic operations, Sir Arthur Tedder believed, would greatly in- crease the effectiveness of the tactical attacks on railway embank- ments, trains, motor vehicles and bridges by which they would be complemented. Both the strategic and tactical air forces would 'be operating towards one objective' and this, Sir Arthur Tedder believed, would 'rapidly produce a state of chaos which would vitally affect not only the immediate battle on the West Wall, but also the whole German war effort.'1 These views, which in many respects were a logical extension of 1 Memo. Tedder to Portal, 25th Oct. 1944, App. 25. 71 those put forward by Sir Arthur Tedder earlier in the year when the role of air power in operation Overlord was being debated, were of great significance. They showed the extent to which Sir Arthur Tedder was preoccupied with the need to concentrate and relate not only the various elements of air power varying from light short-range fighters to heavy long-range bombers upon a single object, but also the whole contribution of air and land power. It is impossible to know what the effect of such a concentration of this enormous power would have been because it was never achieved. As Sir Arthur Tedder had exp