rg (21/22 May: 532 bombers despatched), Brunswick and Dortmund (22/23 May: 235 and 375 bombers despatched), Aachen (24/25 May and 27/28 May: 432 and 170 bombers despatched). O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Reports. 2 O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Reports. In both cases the attacks on Ludwigshafen were by Mosquitoes only. 3 So also did the system of counting these sorties as one-third of an operation from the point of view of a tour of duty.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 138 were failing to react, but because their reaction inevitably affected only a small element of Bomber Command on each occasion. In June 1944 the pattern was nearly the same, though attacks on German targets were even fewer. In fact, Bomber Command carried out major operations over German territory on only three nights during the month of invasion and, in addition to the Mosquito effort, these involved the despatch of only 832 Lancaster and Halifax sorties, all of which were directed against the oil plants at Gelsen- kirchen, Sterkrade, Wesseling and the Scholven plant at Buer. But from these 832 heavy bomber sorties, no fewer than ninety-three Lancasters and Halifaxes failed to return, which amounted to eleven per cent of the force despatched. It was virtually certain that more than sixty-five of these aircraft owed their destruction to night fighter action. 1 This was not a happy augury for the oil plan which was now being pressed upon Bomber Command and which called for both concentration and penetration as well as precision attack which exposed the crews to additional risks. There was certainly no question of the German night fighters being a spent force at this time. They were, in fact, achieving a higher kill rate, when given the opportunity, than had characterised their achievement in the Battle of Berlin. As Sir Charles Portal observed to the Prime Minister soon after these oil attacks in June, the casual- ties were 'another pointer to the increasing efficiency of the enemy's night defences . . . ' and they showed