The thirteen attacks were selected for analysis because they were those for which the best photographic reconnaissance was available. They were thought to be typical of the twenty-nine precision operations of 5 Group in this period. Operations which had to be abandoned either because the target could not be visually marked or because the markers were obscured were disregarded in the calcula- tion of results. They, in fact, account for about twenty per cent of the total despatched force. Thus, if they had been included, the abortive rate would have risen to thirty-seven per cent by comparison with the forty-five per cent for the blind Oboe attacks. 155 Commander Cheshire. Having laid his red spot fires on the aiming point and assessed their accuracy, the master bomber then called upon the backing-up force to aim further spot fires at them and also to cancel any inaccurate marking with spot fires of a distinctive colour, usually yellow.1 Meanwhile, specially selected experienced crews were patrolling the target area at the bombing height to calcu- late the wind speed and direction. The average of their findings was broadcast to the bombing force and each bomb aimer set this same value on his bomb-sight before attacking the target. In this way a concentrated and accurate attack upon the markers was practically guaranteed for so long as the latter could be seen. But in practice it was found that the markers were often obscured or even extinguished in the early stages of the onslaught, with the result that the target had to be re-marked or that the later arrivals were left in doubt as to the true aiming point. Moreover, in the smoke, dust and dazzle of a pro- gressing attack it was difficult accurately to re-mark a target. For that reason offset marking was introduced. This technique involved the deliberate planting of the spot fire markers at some distance, usually between three and four hundred yards, from the actual aiming point. The precise extent of the offset was t