r Force of junior rank, Flight Lieutenant P. E. Kent, to whose exceptional talents high tributes were paid in the Oil Committees. 1 It was on these committees that the strategic air forces depended for their target information during this period and it was on their findings, which were circulated in a weekly bulletin, that the J.I.C. reported to the Chiefs of Staff the great success of the attack in spite of the fact that only a small percentage of the bomber forces were engaged in it. It was upon such exact information that Sir Charles Portal based his arguments in the correspondence with Sir Arthur Harris described in Chapter XII. The existing machinery also served for the other strategic target systems which, however, were not so much in evidence in this period. The 'Jockey' Committee continued its assessment of aircraft and aero-engine production and the Air Ministry issued a weekly list of targets. M.E. W. continued its appreciations of the state of the ball-bearings industry. A special committee was set up to consider attacks on German armoured fighting vehicles and motor vehicles. R.E.8 continued to make appreciations of some of these targets and on occasion of the results of an area attack, but, as has been noted, these received less attention when all thoughts were concentrated on the land offensive. The attacks on the sites of the new V-weapons were largely directed by a special committee set up to co-ordinate the defence against them. 2 This loosely controlled complex served well enough for the strategic offensive while the strategic air forces were subordinate to S.H.A.E.F. But on the transfer of authority over them to Sir Charles Portal and General Arnold it was felt that more co-ordinated and scientific direction was needed. This was at any rate the view held both in the Air Ministry and at the headquarters of the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe. General Spaatz, who con- tinued to reside mainly at headquarters in France, had not welcomed t