ng them were the Bishop of Chichester, Dr. Bell, and the Marquess of Salisbury.1 Now, of course, the responsibility for the fact that Bomber Command often, and at some stages of the war generally, aimed at the residential areas of German towns lay upon the Government, who had con- sidered, endorsed and to a great extent encouraged Air Staff advice to that effect. These processes have been exhaustively examined in these volumes and should by now have become abundantly clear. There is no doubt, for example, that Sir Charles Portal's instructions of 15th February 1942 to the effect that Bomber Command was to aim at built-up areas and not at factories were in accord with Government policy, even though, on that particular occasion, none was formally expressed.2 As further examples of the informally ex- pressed views of the principal members of the Government it is, per- haps, worth mentioning that on 5th August 1941 Sir Charles Portal 1 For Dr. Bell's attitude, see his speech in the House of Lords on 9th February 1944. Parliamentary Debates. Lords. Vol. CXXX, Cols. 737-755. Lord Salisbury corresponded privately with Sir Archibald Sinclair at the end of 1943. 2 See above, Vol. I, p. 324. 115 reminded Sir Archibald Sinclair that 'the Prime Minister has re- peatedly declared during recent weeks and even since Russia came into the war that our policy should be to attack centres of popula- tion', and that on 15th April 1942 the Foreign Secretary, Mr. Eden, wrote to Sir Archibald Sinclair expressing the view that 'the psychological effects of bombing have little connexion with the military or economic importance of the target. They are determined solely by the amount of destruction and dislocation caused. The bombing of Lübeck for example had a moral and dislocating effect out of all proportion to the direct military and economic importance of that city . . . ' Mr. Eden then suggested that the psychological effects of attacking a medium-sized town were greater than those of at