efine. The Chiefs of Staff agreed that Sir Arthur Tedder ought not to be an 'officer without portfolio', but the adoption of their suggestions would, of course, have made him just that.1 Thus, the British Chiefs of Staff sought to preserve in the command structure at least something of the independence of Bomber Com- mand, the Home Fleet and other elements of metropolitan military and air power. In so far as the Home Fleet and Coastal Command were concerned, their ideas may have stemmed from the continuing and obvious need to maintain the struggle in the Battle of the Atlan- tic. As far as Fighter Command, or Air Defence of Great Britain as it was now called, and, to some extent, Bomber Command were con- cerned, they were obviously influenced by the threat to Britain of the German V-weapon developments. The British preference for separ- ate and independent commands had always been a bone of conten- tion between the two great allies, but, at least as far as the air com- mand was concerned, these ideas were ill-adjusted to the vast operations now contemplated and they survived only with increasing difficulty. By the end of February 1944 it was clear beyond all doubt that General Eisenhower 'demurred at anything short of complete opera- tional control of the whole of Bomber Command and U.S.S.A.F.E.', but while the Prime Minister admitted that Overlord must be 'the chief care of all concerned' he was now taking the view that 'there can be no question of handing over the British Bomber, Fighter or Coastal Commands as a whole to the Supreme Commander and his Deputy'. 2 A few days later General Eisenhower and Sir Charles Portal reached agreement upon what ought to be done. The strategic 1 C.O.S. to Churchill, 8th Jan. 1944. The anxiety of the Chiefs of Staff was shown by their request to the Prime Minister that he should not commit himself to any arrange- ment until he had discussed it with them. The Prime Minister's reply from Cairo con- tained the statement that Leigh-Ma