it could not be moved farther to the east. He even suggested that if it was, there would be no targets left for the Soviet air force to bomb. Sir Charles Portal said that the British and United States Air Staffs would welcome strategic air attacks on suitable targets by the three air forces, 2 but General Antonov was evidently unwilling for the degree of co-operation which this suggestion required and no agreement was reached.3 1 Mins. of Ist Tripartite Military Mtg., Yalta, 5th Feb. 1945, printed in Foreign Relations of the United States Diplomatic Papers. The Conferences at Malta and Yalta, (Washington, 1955), pp. 595-608. 2 Mins. of 2nd Tripartite Military Mtg., Yalta, 6th Feb. 1945, printed in The Con- ferences at Malta and Yalta, pp. 640-655. 3 Letter Portal to Khudyakov, 9th Feb. 1945. A question which arose was whether the Anglo-American air forces should obtain Russian permission before attacking targets to the east of the proposed 'bombline', or whether they should be able to do so after notifying the Russians of their intention and in the absence of any objection being raised. 107 Nevertheless, as was shown by his message of 6th February to Sir Norman Bottomley, Sir Charles Portal did not take the Russian atti- tude as a reason for changing the plans which had already been made for bringing the heavy bomber effort to bear in support of the Russian advance. Indeed, this plan had already sprung into action, for, on 3rd February, the United States Eighth Air Force carried out a massive daylight attack on Berlin. This operation and those which presently followed showed that General Doolittle had received from General Spaatz substantially similar instructions to those which had been conveyed by Sir Norman Bottomley to Sir Arthur Harris on 27th January. These mass attacks on east German towns did not constitute any fundamental change in bombing policy. The February attack on Berlin was not the first which the United States Eighth Air Force had made on the German