t this was sent with the memo. cited above at footnote 2. The senior Bomber Command representative at Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force (S.H.A.E.F.) was Air Vice-Marshal Oxland who had formerly been Sir Arthur Harris' Senior Air Staff Officer.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 22 BASES OF VICTORY AND DISSENSION were, of course, Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory, General Spaatz and Sir Arthur Harris, and before proceeding to consider Sir Arthur Tedder's proposals, it is necessary to examine the viewpoint of each of these officers. The plan put forward by Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory on 3rd March 1944 was, as might be expected from the relationship which had long existed between the Allied Expeditionary Air Force and General Morgan, the most closely related to the direct military re- quirements of Overlord. It revealed for the tactical and strategic air forces, two principal objects: the attainment of air superiority and the disruption of German communications in France and western Ger- many. These aims were to be achieved in two stages, the first, before the invasion, being strategic, and the second, after the surface assault had begun, tactical. The strategic aspect of the struggle for air superi- ority was to consist of a continuation of the attack on the Luftwaffe at its sources which had long been a part of the Pointblank plan. Its tac- tical aspect was to consist of the neutralisation of aerodromes and of aircraft in the areas from which the allied armies might be threatened by German air power. The strategic phase of the com- munications plan was to be accomplished by heavy bombing attacks upon focal points and especially railway marshalling yards and rail- way repair depots. The tactical phase would consist of attempts to cut specific lines leading to the Normandy area. In this way, it was hoped to deny the German army air support, render it vulnerable to allied air attack and to immobilise it in a 'railway desert' at the vital moment when the allied armies came a