were despatched and, as had been expected, they found ten-tenths cloud at five to ten thousand feet over the target. 153 of them carried 1 Bomber Command Review 1945. The parts of Bomber Command and of the U.S. Eighth Air Force in the oil campaign (May 1944 to April 1945) are illustrated by the following figures for attacks on synthetic plants and refineries in Germany: 42 82 Number of plants attacked „ Bomber Command attacks . . „ Eighth Air Force attacks 170 Tons of bombs dropped by Bomber Command 63,674 „ Eighth Air Force 45,617 2 Twenty-six attacks, involving the despatch of 6,011 sorties, were made on synthetic oil plants. They were distributed as follows. One attack each was made on Zeitz, Dort- mund, Sterkrade-Holten and Brüx. Two attacks each were made on Gelsenkirchen, Pölitz, Wanne-Eickel and the Scholven plant at Buer. Three attacks each were made on Leuna and Lützkendorf. Four attacks each were made on Böhlen and Kamen. Thirty-four attacks, involving the despatch of 3,078 sorties, were made on benzol plants. They were distributed as follows. One attack each was made on Hüls, Wanne-Eickel (Herne), the Gneisenau and the Minister Stein plants at Dortmund, Königsborn, the Prosper plant at Bottrop, Killwinkel and Molbis. Two attacks each were made on Datteln, Recklinghausen (Erkenschwick), the Bruchstrasse plant near Bochum, Brück- hausen, the Hansa plant at Dortmund, Hattingen, the Mathias Stinnes plant at Bottrop, Osterfeld near Bottrop, Salzgitter and the Alma Pluto plant at Gelsenkirchen. Three attacks each were made on the Consolidation plant at Gelsenkirchen and Castrop Rauxel. Fifteen attacks, involving the despatch of 2,462 sorties, were made on refineries. They were distributed as follows. One attack each was made on the Deutsche Petroleum refinery at Hamburg, Rositz, Bremen, the Ebano and Rhenania Ossag refineries at Harburg, Misburg, Dortmund, Monheim, Reisholz, Vallo and Salzbergen. Two attacks were made on Heide. Three attacks were made on Misbur