had for some months 'been allowed to feel that they can, at any time, call on heavy Bomber effort and that it will be laid on practically without question', it was, Sir Arthur Tedder said, 'going to be a difficult process to cure the drug addicts-particularly since the troops are undoubtedly getting pretty tired.' Sir Arthur Tedder, with considerable reason, did not, however, regard these army expectations as the only malaise from which the strategic air offensive was suffering. He was evidently concerned about the actual conduct of the main offensive as well. He had, as he now told Sir Charles Portal, 'for some time been very uneasy about the way things were going', and though he knew that his views would 'not be acceptable in some quarters' he thought that 'the time for debates and compromises is past. In my opinion,' he said, 'we can only make the full weight of our Air power felt if we set all our various Air Forces to work at once towards one common objective; if we do that,' he concluded, 'I believe Air power will be decisive-and quickly'. To show his view of this 'common objective' Sir Arthur Tedder enclosed a memorandum.2 There were, Sir Arthur Tedder said in the opening paragraph of this memorandum, two methods of ending the war; one was by mili- tary invasion and the other was by strategic bombing, but he did not regard them as alternatives, nor did he think that they need conflict with each other. On the contrary, he regarded them as complement- ary. He did not believe 'that by concentrating our whole Air effort on the ground battle area we shall shorten the war. Nor do I believe that we would shorten the war by putting our whole Bomber effort against industrial and political targets inside Germany'. As far as the land campaign was concerned, the immediate objective was the Ruhr. The Army commanders wished to use air power to disrupt the flow of German reinforcements and supplies across the Rhine and 1 Letter Portal to Tedder, 22nd Oct. 1944. 2 Letter Ted