ng attacks which had preceded them. In the first fifteen of the latter type of operations, it will have been noticed, some forty-five per cent of the despatched effort was wasted owing to abortive sorties, gross bombing errors, and so on. An analysis of thir- teen of the 5 Group precision attacks between 10th April and the end of May showed that seventeen per cent of the effort had been wasted for the same reasons. The average overall bombing error for the eighty-three per cent of the 5 Group bomb loads which were effec- tively aimed in these attacks amounted to 380 yards, which com- pared with the average error of 680 yards for the fifty-five per cent of effectively aimed bombs in the Oboe ground marking attacks. Even these impressive figures did not, however, fully reflect the brilliance of the 5 Group achievement. A modified marking technique was introduced in the middle of May, and in the first four operations analysed after this the 5 Group overall average bombing error was reduced to 285 yards. 2 This modification was known as offset marking and in order to understand it some description of the 5 Group technique must be given. It will already have been seen that the initial marking was laid down on the aiming point by visual aim from a very low level and that after the beginning of April this was generally, though not in- variably, done from a Mosquito. In many operations, 'proximity' markers were first dropped blindly by high-level Oboe Mosquitoes of the Pathfinder Force. These were followed by a number of flares which were intended to facilitate the visual identification of the tar- get by the master bomber, who, at this time, was generally Wing 1 Bomber Cmd. O.R.B. Jan .- June 1944 and O.R.B. (617 Sqdn.), 20th April 1944. 2 O.R.S.(B.C.) Report, 30th June 1944. The thirteen attacks were selected for analysis because they were those for which the best photographic reconnaissance was available. They were thought to be typical of the twenty-nine precision opera