essure by the Gestapo succeeded for a long time in maintaining an artificial morale in spite of intense bombardment, but that a limit to this could be reached is clearly exemplified in the case of Dresden. When this catastrophe became known to the whole of Germany, morale disintegrated everywhere in spite of the best or worst efforts of the Gestapo.' Oberst Edgar Petersen (Head of the Luftwaffe experimental station at Rechlin) Interrogation, 23rd July 1945. This is only one opinion, but that of a man of wide experience. See also Speer's view, Interrogation of 18th July 1945, App. 37 (ii), Answer (f) to para. 19. * 1 This section is mainly founded on the British and United States surveys of the oil offensive together with information from the Speer papers and other German documents. For the character of the two oil surveys, see Annex V. 2. The attack on oil The attack on oil, the cause of much controversy, was carried to a triumphant conclusion before the war's end, which it had done so much to bring about. One of the main factors in this success was the rapid and accurate intelligence concerning a target system composed of more than one hundred targets widespread in the greater Reich, Rumania and Hungary. The machinery by which this intelligence was produced has already been described. Consideration must now be given to the appraisals made and the results achieved.1 The task of appraisal was complex and, in spite of the immense effort and skill devoted to it, it was inevitable that large errors should be made. Nevertheless, it was performed with sufficient success to provide a reliable guide to the conduct of the oil offensive. Some important considerations were not perceived or were not sufficiently emphasised, but this fact did not affect the constantly reiterated advice that the oil situation of Germany was precarious and that an attack on it would be more rewarding than that on any other target system. If the statistics on which this advice was founded were ofte