broadcast of 13th May except for a cryptic reference to the attack on V-weapons, and no campaign medal was struck to distinguish those who took part in the strategic air offensive. The Prime Minister and others in authority seemed to turn away from the subject as though it were distasteful to them and as though they had forgotten their own recent efforts to initiate and maintain the offensive. Sir Arthur Harris was not allowed to issue his Despatch on one of the greatest campaigns of the war. His conclusions did not reflect the views of the Air Staff and, no doubt, some of the facts which he in- cluded could not have been published at that time. Nor did the Air Staff, to whose decision this was due, make any authoritative pro- nouncement of their own. Sir Arthur Harris' personal account in his book Bomber Offensive was no substitute for the Despatch since it could not include the statistics and scientific analysis. For this and other reasons much of it has necessarily remained unconvincing. Neither the general nor the particular reports of the British Bombing Survey Unit were published. The official history of the United States Army Air Forces, which began to appear in 1948, produced an authori- tative account of the American contribution to the offensive, but it included only spasmodic references to the work of Bomber Command. The short official history of the Royal Air Force, which was pub- lished under the auspices of the Air Ministry, has done much to inform the general public, but it had not sufficient space and did not rest on a sufficient background of research to go very deeply into the problems of the strategic air offensive, and on this subject there is surprisingly little in Sir Winston Churchill's war memoirs. Thus, in the absence of any authoritative or highly informed account, myth and misconception have grown and been unassailed. Some of that, it may be hoped, has been corrected in this work. But no one would claim that the field is yet fully explored