ris had continued to devote the greater part of his effort to area attacks on German towns he could scarcely, with justice, have been accused of disregarding its terms, for, in the directive, the disorganisation of German industry was still referred to as the 'main aim' of Bomber Command. Nevertheless, the real intentions of General Eisenhower and Sir Arthur Tedder proved to be more important and much more influential than the curious wording of the directive. Sir Arthur Harris engaged in no arguments about the meaning of the various clauses. He carried out the plan with vigour. It was not from High Wycombe but from Downing Street that the objections came. The Prime Minister continued in vigorous opposition to the plan. · He told General Eisenhower on 29th April that the War Cabinet was nearly unanimously against it. He deplored the killing of 10,000- 15,000 French civilians and said that experience in Italy had shown how difficult it was to stop traffic by bombing marshalling yards. He pointed out that the plan had been opposed by Bomber Command Headquarters, by the United States Strategic Air Forces, by the Directorate of Bomber Operations in the Air Ministry, the 'railway experts' at the War Office, the Ministry of Economic Warfare, the Joint Intelligence Committee and various civilian railway experts. He said that the railway system of northern France was estimated to have a capacity of seven to eight hundred trains a day, but that the German army only required about ten per cent of that number. It would, therefore, Mr. Churchill argued, be necessary to knock out ninety per cent of the system before any valuable effects began to occur.1 1 Letter and memo. Churchill to Eisenhower, 29th April 1944.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 38 BASES OF VICTORY AND DISSENSION After a pause which momentarily gave rise to a rumour at Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary Force, that the French railway campaign had been abandoned, 1 General Eisenhower declared that these political