ined even further as time went on. The average number of contacts obtained with this equipment per sortie completed declined from 1·1 in May 1944 to 0.005 in September and the number of A.I. contacts needed to result in one successful combat increased from an average of nine in May 1944 to sixty in September.3 The reasons for these set-backs were that the German pilots became more wary, that interference with the Mark IV A.I. increased and more and more German fighters were equipped with a new kind of A.I. which did not register on Serrate. Low-level offensive fighter patrols carried out by aircraft without radar interception devices were even less successful. In June 1944, for example, some 138 of these sorties resulted in the claim of only one enemy aircraft being destroyed.4 Nor did the in- creasing introduction of the Mark X and later the Mark XV A.I. make any substantial difference. No effective means was ever found of engaging the German night fighter force in direct combat and it was certainly not to direct combat that its ultimate collapse was due. Though it must be remembered that Sir Arthur Harris' minimum requirement for long-range fighters in 100 Group was never met, it 1 Air Min. Conf., 20th April 1944. Two of these Squadrons, 85 and 157, came from A.D.G.B. The third, 23, was brought home from the Mediterranean theatre. 2 100 Group Review. Of these 257 aircraft, 236 were claimed as destroyed in the air and twenty-one on the ground. 3 100 Group Review. 4 do.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 150 I. The marshalling yards at Trappes after attack on the night of 6th March 1944. would, all the same, appear that his expectation of this kind of attack on the German fighter force was not realistically related to the interception equipment and tactics which could be developed and that it was, therefore, somewhat over-optimistic. On the other hand. the belief, which he expressed at the beginning of April to the effect that Bomber Command could expect little protection from