hs before any substantial recovery could have occurred.2 Similar conclusions were arrived at about the decline of production in Bochum, though here a greater proportion of the loss was caused by direct damage to the factories. The great Bochumer Verein steel and munitions plant produced no more than ten to fifteen per cent of its normal amount because of these same causes. Here also it is apparent that, though the injuries to the external communications of the Ruhr would ultimately have brought about a similar loss of pro- duction, so much damage was already done that this cause was not important. The final blow was given by a huge raid of 19th/20th March, which, like the others mentioned above, was really unneces- sary at this date.3 The United States survey of Solingen came to a similar conclusion.4 It is true that in some other cases of which we have knowledge the 1 U.S.S.B.S. Gusstahlfabrik Friedrich Krupp, Essen, Germany (No. 108), and Friedrich Krupp A.G., Borbeck Plant, Essen, Germany (No. 73). O.R.S.(B.C.) Report. 2 O.R.S.(B.C.) Report, 28th Aug. 1945. 3 do. 22nd Aug. 1945 '. . . the situation [of communications] became progressively worse and it is clear that if production had not in any case been cut to a fraction of its normal volume, it would have had a serious effect. In practice, however, it does not appear to have been one of the primary causes of production loss.' U.S.S.B.S. Bochumer Verein Fuer Gusstahlfabrikation A.G, Bochum, Germany (No. 76), confirms this judgment. 4 U.S.S.B.S. A Detailed Study of the Effects of Area Bombing on Solingen, Germany (No. 35). 265 conclusion is not so clear-cut. Düsseldorf, for example, seems to have suffered more from the injuries to external communications than from the damage inflicted by the heavy attacks upon it by Bomber Com- mand. The same is possibly true of Wuppertal, while at Krefeld there was no great area attack, but similar results were produced by a num- ber of smaller attacks by both air forces and in t