d by the meticulous analysis of the whole problem in the fifth volume of the Narrative The R.A.F. in the Maritime War.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 274 THE DIRECT ATTACK that many of these would have become operational in the second half of 1944. Another new type XXIII U-boat, much smaller in size, was designed for use in the Mediterranean and was meant to be con- structed in shipyards on that sea. This became impossible but pro- duction of this type was continued in two German yards.1 New U-boats of the older types were not laid down but the considerable numbers under construction were completed. This ambitious programme never came to fruition. It was from the first much delayed by various complications, one being the lack of sufficient steel. The plan had been too hastily made and construction too hastily begun. The programme had to be drastically revised and the projected number cut down to a half. All kinds of teething troubles arose and, as 1944 went on, Doenitz had continually to ex- plain to Hitler why he had not yet been able to begin the new sub- marine offensive from which so much was hoped. By the middle of 1944 delivery of type XXI U-boats to the Navy began, but the pro- gramme had again to be drastically revised because of the strategic air attack on German industry and communications. Meanwhile, the allied navies had got news of the new threat and began to press for direct bombing of the assembly yards. Some of the section assembly yards were under concrete but others and the final assembly yards were less protected.2 It took considerable time and pressure before the navies obtained the weight of attack which they thought necessary. But bombing of the assembly yards began in a small way in November and December and in 1945 was much in- creased until in March and April devastating raids were made on Hamburg and Bremen. Thus, the final result of all the planning and effort extending over two years was that only eighty type XXI U-boats were delivered to the