omber Command, how- ever, devised a means of exploiting this apparent weakness. On nights when no operations of consequence were despatched the Mandrel screen was flown and other symptoms of Bomber Command getting airborne were simulated. A special Window-dropping force then emerged from behind the screen and, for the benefit of German radar, faked the approach of a bomber concentration. Thus, on several occasions, German night fighters were drawn into the air to oppose attacks which did not exist and, incidentally, to consume petrol which could be ill afforded. Naturally, the German fighter con- trollers became suspicious, but their suspicion tended to delay their reaction to actual Bomber Command attacks, often until it was too late. Route interception, which had once been so effective, therefore, owing both to the loss of territory and to the Mandrel-Window decep- tions, became rarer and rarer. The alternative of target interception, as had been the case for a long time, was a poor one, owing to the difficulty of identifying the real objective among the simulated ones. In addition to all this, there was, as has already been mentioned, the acute and growing shortage of petrol and especially aviation petrol.1 Night air superiority, which was heralded in these ways, not only 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Reports.  Night Operations 29th-30th August 1944 25 50 75 Scale of Miles 100 200 Routes Briefed x **** Map 4 B 0209hrs Hamburg 0047- 0052hrs Y Legend Stettin 0151- 0221 hrs (5 Combats) KÖNIGSBERG ...... outward route homeward . STETTIN. .outward . homeward . BERLIN 0138 - 0151 hrs Minelaying. ..... outward routes not following main tracks. homeward routes not following main tracks. Mosquito diversionary attacks outward routes. homeward # · Königsberg 0107-0152 hrs 12 Combats ) Estimated position of combats with German fighters X o Le Culot Florennes O Leverkusen ° Cologne In addition, 4 Mosquitoes were despatched to Leverkusen, 4 to Florennes airfield, 2 to Cologne, and 5 to Le Cu