s and an unlimited supply of slave labour was placed at his disposal. Large quantities of concrete and steel were used. In August, Speer stopped all new construction above ground and the machinery as well as that from irrepairable plants was used for repairing others. The special repair squads were kept at the plants after repairs were finished so that the work could be immedi- ately restarted if another attack came.2 By this means plants were repaired over and over again though with more difficulty as the attack continued. It was this effort of repair that had to be over- come if the attack was to succeed as quickly as was now hoped by those surveying it in Britain. During these summer months when reconnaissance photographs could generally be rapidly obtained their appreciations of the attack various means of defence in the plants themselves in consultation with German officials and were able to accumulate many interesting facts. They found, for example, that at one period as many bombs fell on the Leuna decoy plant as on the plant itself. 1 Speech by Speer, 2nd June 1944, Speer Docs. (Hamburg Series). 2 Speech by Speer, 3rd Aug. 1944. Notes on Conf. with Hitler, 28th Nov. 1944, Speer Docs. (Hamburg Series). S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-Q  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 232 THE ATTACK ON OIL were on the whole very successful. In spite of initial errors, the extent of the reduction in production was very accurately measured.1 Even more important was the fact that the amount of destruction in the several plants attacked was realistically assessed and the advice as to when they should be again attacked was generally sound. Speer, it is true, claimed that, as he had hoped, the attack was often not made sufficiently quickly to prevent some production being obtained. But this for the most part was not due to errors in assessment but to other causes such as the weather, operational difficulties and the necessity, or supposed necessity, of attacking other targets. There were, of co