uring the night fighter rather than, as hitherto, the night bomber. Moreover, this occurred at the very time when the efficacy of the cover of long-range fighters was being so convincingly demon- strated by American activities in daylight. Inevitably, the possibility 1 'It will be seen', Sir Arthur Harris writes, 'that at this stage of the war we were getting towards that state of affairs which I had recommended when the formation of the Pathfinder Force was first under discussion, for we now had the benefit of several different techniques, developed by different Groups, which were suitable for a variety of targets or conditions of weather.' Nevertheless, the Pathfinder Force was not, Sir Arthur Harris suggests, 'superseded' nor, he says, did it lose its 'commanding position'. Bomber Offensive, pp. 202-203. 13I of day attack again became a live issue in Bomber Command and avenues which, as far as heavy bombers were concerned, had been virtually closed since the Lancaster attack on the M.A.N. Works at Augsburg in April 1942 seemed once more to be open. When in February 1944 the American bomber forces had resumed their deep penetration attacks upon German targets in a campaign which became famous under its code name of Operation Argument, it had been feared, not only by the British Air Staff, but also by the responsible American commanders themselves, that severe casualties would be suffered. In view of what had happened in the autumn of 1943 this was not surprising but, in the event, these expectations were never realised. In February 1944, from the heavy bombers of the Eighth Air Force which carried out attacks, only 3.5 per cent were lost in action and a further 3·I per cent damaged by German fighters. In March 3·5 per cent were again lost in action, but only 2·7 per cent returned with the marks of fighter action upon them. In the period between July and December 1943 five per cent of these heavy bombers had been lost in action and nine per cent had been damaged by