Chief was reflected in the activities of Bomber Command during October 1944. During that month a colossal effort was put forth. About 17,500 operational sorties were despatched and more than 13,000 of these were directed against targets in Germany. More than sixty-one thousand tons of bombs were dropped and over fifty-one thousand of these fell on Ger- man territory. This weight of attack was more than twice as great as the previous highest tonnage dropped on Germany by Bomber Com- mand in a single month. On Duisburg alone, within the space of twenty-four hours, Bomber Command dropped about the same weight of bombs as the Germans had brought to bear against London in the entire war up to that time. Autumn weather was, of course, beginning to set in, but the versatility of Bomber Command, arising from the declining effectiveness of the German air defences and the increasing technical and operational abilities of the force, had grown almost beyond previous comparison. It was, as Sir Charles Portal was presently to tell the Prime Minister, 'well shown by the successful attacks carried out against industrial areas, synthetic oil plants, capital ships, U-boat bases, canals, sea walls and gun emplacements'. Nor were these developments confined only to night bombing. More than 4,500 of Bomber Command's sorties in October were carried out in daylight, and the cost of the whole of this vast and varied effort in terms of casualties was, by comparison with earlier standards, neg- ligible. The overall loss rate amounted to o·79 per cent of the sorties despatched. The losses against German targets only amounted to o·8 per cent and even for the daylight operations the loss rate was only one per cent.1 These figures give an indication of the extent to which the con- ditions of the strategic air offensive had been changed by the in- creased size and efficiency of Bomber Command, by the growth of allied air superiority and by the allied reoccupation of France. But though the versati