f the further attacks on it by Bomber Com- mand. The great steel plant at Borbeck in the north of Essen was also so injured by the area attacks of September and October that there was no further production in the rolling mills, while the rest of the S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-s  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 264 THE DIRECT ATTACK plant was severely damaged and produced but little, until it was finally put out of action by the attack of 3rd February. Similar effects were produced in many other factories in Essen. Both the British and United States teams who made the surveys of Essen and the Krupp factories were able to show that these were due much more to the direct attack than to the more remote causes produced by the attack on communications. 1 Results of the same kind were observed in some other towns in the Ruhr. On Dortmund, for example, something like 12,000 tons of bombs were dropped between September 1944 and March 1945, half of them in area bombing and half in the attacks on the synthetic oil and benzol plants, which latter not only performed their special func- tion but contributed to the general disorganisation. The British team who surveyed this town were convinced that the decline in produc- tion to half the previous amount was caused mainly by the disruption of the gas, electricity and water services and the direct damage to the plants. To these causes, for example, was due the complete cessation of production in the great steel works there after December. In general, the direct attack acted more rapidly than the attack on communications and consequently the failure of supplies from outside added little to the result. The final raid on Dortmund on 12th March, if in the circumstances unnecessary, stopped production so effectively that it would have been many months before any substantial recovery could have occurred.2 Similar conclusions were arrived at about the decline of production in Bochum, though here a greater proportion of the loss was caused by direc