ck on communications, if the direction of the strategic forces had remained in the hands of the Deputy Supreme Commander, as in the earlier period, simply because he might have secured greater co-operation from all the commanders concerned. It may be, however, that in such a case the army commanders would have secured an even greater use of the strategic forces for their own operations and they had little faith in that part of the offensive which did not immediately affect them.2 But, whatever be thought in this respect, the impression still remains that the immense power of the strategic forces was not used in the attack on communications in such a manner as to produce the most rapid end to the resistance of the enemy. 1 One estimate of the weight of bombs dropped on communications targets by the Western air forces is as follows: Effective Sorties R.A.F. Bomber Command . 3,748 3,168 7,733 U.S. Eighth Air Force U.S. Ninth Air Force 2,429 4,391 R.A.F. 2nd Tactical Air Force 1,153 Tons dropped 17,621 1,888 10,498 Thus, Bomber Command with little more than one-third of the sorties dropped more than half the weight of bombs. The figures are not necessarily accurate but may be taken as an indication of the position. Lewis H. Brereton, Lieut .- General, U.S.A .: The Brereton Diaries, (New York, 1946), p. 403. 31,633 2 'General Schlatter gave his opinion that the American victory at St. Lo in July was not so much due to the carpet bombing as to the denial of supplies to the Germans by the earlier strategic offensive. General Eisenhower agreed, but said that it was impossible to convince the Army that the battle of St. Lo had not been won as a result of the direct support given by the 8th Air Force.' Notes of mtg. held at S.H.A.E.F., 5th Dec. 1944.  4. The direct attack THE DIRECT ATTACK If the attack on oil produced the most immediate effect on the Ger- man armies and air force and the attack on communications was a major cause of the decline in production, a greater weigh