ur Tedder before it was pre- sented to the C.S.T.C. on 8th November. The first two objectives were tactical, to provide the maximum assistance to the military operations on the Western front and also to assist as far as possible those on the Italian and Eastern fronts. The strategic objective was placed third, to exert the greatest possible pressure on the enemy's war production. The plan was based on a number of important assumptions. In the first place the opportunity for successful interdiction, such as had been so successfully employed in Belgium and northern France, was thought to be much less in Germany itself because of its highly developed railway system. Secondly, it was thought that the planned all-out attack in the Ruhr, known as Hurricane I, and the continuous attacks on the oil plants in that area would contribute to the attack on communications, though not specifically aimed at them. Thirdly, investigations in France had shown, it was claimed, that repair and recovery could be rapidly accomplished unless an attack was con- tinuously maintained on the railway centres and marshalling yards. Finally, since the waterways carried so large a proportion of the traffic, they must also be included in the target system. In order to produce the necessary tactical effect the attack was to be delivered on the area between the whole length of the Rhine and 10 degrees East, a line running through Hamburg-Hanover- Würzburg-Ulm. This was a very large area so that it had to be divided into zones in each of which the tactical air forces should proceed to carry out a plan of interdiction while the strategic air forces attacked the main railway centres and marshalling yards. Nine zones were laid out, and it was added that 'the priority of attacks between zones should be determined by current military, requirements and by their relative importance in war production.' Obviously these criteria might or might not coincide. But in addition it was suggested that five major inter