a. In this way, it was hoped to deny the German army air support, render it vulnerable to allied air attack and to immobilise it in a 'railway desert' at the vital moment when the allied armies came ashore. 1 The plan had much to recommend it. It provided for a concentra- tion of allied air power for it embraced the activities of British and American forces, of heavy and light bombers and of bombers and fighters. The common object to be achieved by the application of all this strength to the two complementary aspects of the plan was also directly and very closely related to the requirements of Overlord itself. Indeed, it could be and actually was argued that Overlord could not be successfully carried out unless this air plan was put into execution. Thus, it was really a part of Overlord and not simply an ancillary to it. Though the Leigh-Mallory plan did not necessarily or entirely ex- clude the continued attack on German strategic targets by the heavy bombers, it adopted none of the tenets of the 'independent' offensive and was, in fact, entirely adapted to the strategy of 'triphibious' war in which the operations of any single arm had to be related closely to those of the other arms. This fact did not, however, recommend itself either to General Spaatz or to Sir Arthur Harris, both of whom were naturally more impressed than Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory with the 'independent' 1 A.E.A.F. Plan, 3rd March 1944. 23 potential of their heavy-bomber forces, and more particularly, with the opportunities for German recovery which a cessation, or even a slackening in the tempo of the strategic air offensive might afford. The common disagreement with Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory which was shared by General Spaatz and Sir Arthur Harris was not, how- ever, on common ground. General Spaatz's recommendations were a logical extension of the ideas which had inspired the American interpretation of the Casablanca directive and which had since attracted the increasing support of the Briti