ut the future, but of actual, immediate and notable achievements. The result was that, early in 1942, the decision was taken to press the offensive forward with the utmost vigour at once. This meant making continued use of the relatively inefficient and under-trained crews and of reinforcing them with recruits who were hardly better trained and who were even more inexperienced. The consequence, of course, was that many gallant men and good machines were lost in action and in flying accidents which might otherwise have been 299 avoided, but, if the offensive was to be maintained and increased, this was inevitable. Moreover, since the hand of fate was often turned indifferently against those with great experience and those with little, it was a consequence which has, perhaps, been exaggerated in some estimates.1 There is also the undoubted consideration that the best form of operational training is operational experience and it is not necessarily true that the large numbers of crews who were lost in the course of their first three or four operations would not have been lost if they had done an extra fifty or a hundred flying hours at operational training units. Even so the operational standards of the Bomber Command crews varied considerably. Some, through long runs of good luck, had acquired the skills of experience. Some were intrinsically of excep- tional quality and some had special aptitudes such as unusually good night vision and some, of course, had greater courage than others. If such specially good crews were merely mixed with the others in general attacks their achievement could hardly be detected, but if some means could be found of enabling them to lead the attacks, the whole result might be changed and the problem of the relative inefficiency of the ordinary crews might be largely solved. The prob- lem was one of bringing the best crews into the lead and of enabling them to communicate their own standards to their less able com- rades. The solution, after