ttacked from between eleven thousand and just over thirteen thousand feet where the cloud base was. The Grand Slam was dropped from 11,965 feet, which was much lower than ideal for a penetration bomb.1 Despite this, it seems likely that the ten-ton bomb penetrated deeply into the rather soft water-logged ground on which the viaduct stood and, of course, a 'near miss' was the correct application for its undermining earthquake activity. It proved impossible to dis- tinguish between the effects of the Tallboys and the Grand Slam, but photographic reconnaissance did show that the viaduct had been wrecked over a length of more than a hundred yards. No doubt the Grand Slam had an important bearing upon this satisfactory and remarkable result.2 This was the first of the forty-one Grand Slams dropped by 617 Squadron on similar targets before the capitulation of Germany.3 1 O.R.B. (617 Sqdn.), 14th March 1945, Bomber Cmd. O.R.B. 1945 and O.R.S.(B.C.) Day Raid Report. 2 See the photograph between pages 238 and 239. Since the war, the viaduct has been by-passed by a loop line, but the wrecked structure itself remains to this day as a monu- ment to the destructive power of Bomber Command. 3 A.H.B. Monograph cited above. Between their operational introduction in June 1944 and the end of the war in Europe, Bomber Command dropped 854 Tallboys on targets 205 The Tallboy and Grand Slam attacks on bridges and viaducts were an important part of the communications offensive which was at the same time carried on in many other ways. Operations against the Dortmund-Ems and the Mittelland canals were continued whenever they seemed to be necessary and no great difficulty was experienced in draining them on each occasion. A heavy concentration of attack, much of it in direct support of the armies, was devoted to marshalling yards and other railway targets, and Bomber Command played an important part in the ultimate demise of the German navy by con- tinuing to attack its bases. In one of thes