ith the character- istics of the major weapons and could discuss them with sense and knowledge. But in this period he often pressed for production which was not only impossible but, if attempted, would have disorganised altogether such plans as could be carried out. Speer could not always disregard these orders or persuade Hitler to alter them. Speer after the war claimed that he knew that it was irretrievably lost as soon as the allied armies had established themselves on the Continent. He did not state this openly, whatever he said on the subject, if he did, privately. In public speeches and conferences with the Gauleiters he still professed that all difficulties could be overcome if the right measures were adopted.2 His energy and resource did all that was possible to save the oil plants, to solve the transport crises and rebuild the devastated Ruhr. He still exacted the utmost efforts from the widespread organisation which he controlled. But in his reports to Hitler he stressed with increasing insistence that the war could not be won unless the measures taken to protect produc- tion from the bombing attack were successful. Hitler then, as he had done before, forbade any defeatist talk and a number of persons were executed for having indulged in it-at any rate that was a reason given. Certainly no other Minister but Speer ventured to write to him with such explicit references to the possibilities of defeat. In these circumstances it is surprising that Speer kept his position. It was, perhaps, due to three reasons. Speer certainly compromised to some extent with his enemies. He co-operated with Goebbels and praised his work in his speeches. He announced publicly a reconcilia- tion with Sauckel at a conference with his armaments subordinates and Gauleiters. 3 He seems to have used similar tactics with Himmler. At any rate he avoided, so far as he could, a head-on collision with the Party in which Hitler would have decided against him. Even so Bormann and Goebbels d