e which by some had been regarded as wholly unsuitable for major German targets. All the same, they represented a refinement of area bombing rather than an introduction of precision attack. In their accuracy they scarcely com- pared with what was being achieved in France and the Low Coun- tries. Nor, as will presently be seen, had these difficulties by any means been overcome when the Bomber Command oil offensive began in June with attacks on Gelsenkirchen, Sterkrade, Wesseling and the Scholven plant. Meanwhile, in the course of the railway campaign and of other operations against small targets, various different precision bombing techniques were being developed and tested in the light of the estab- lished success of the master bomber principle. The method of con- trolled Oboe, which has already been mentioned, and another, known as Musical Newhaven, were both crosses between the blind Oboe method and the visual 5 Group technique. Also, like controlled Oboe, they were refinements of techniques which, as will have been noticed, had been developed over the course of the area bombing offensive since the beginning of 1942. Controlled Oboe and Musical Newhaven both introduced a visual check upon and, if necessary, a correction of the blind Oboe marking of high-level Mosquitoes. They also both pro- vided for the presence of a master bomber to direct the attack. The results achieved by their use were better than those following the purely blind Oboe attacks, but they were not as good as those pro- duced by the 5 Group technique. In operations between 6th March and the end of April hits achieved expressed as a proportion of hits expected amounted for blind Oboe marking attacks to fifty-seven per cent, for Musical Newhaven to sixty-four per cent, for controlled Oboe to seventy-nine per cent and for the 5 Group technique to ninety- three per cent.2 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Reports and O.R.B. (617 Sqdn.) 22nd and 24th April 1944. 3 O.R.S.(B.C.) Report, 9th May 1944. These stati