plant in Germany had been damaged, that five of the ten known Fischer-Tropsch plants had been damaged and that the recent activities of the Fifteenth Air Force had retarded the recovery of mineral oil refining in Rumania from the effects of its previous attacks. 3 These indications and the prospects which they offered produced a vigorous reaction from the Air Staff which was in full accord with the enthusiasm of General Spaatz for the oil offensive. In an Air Staff brief of 2 1st August 1944, Air Vice-Marshal D. Colyer, the Assistant Chief of the Air Staff for Policy, and Air Commodore Bufton, the Director of Bomber Operations, suggested that 'serious consideration should be given to according overriding priority to the attack of oil targets by the Allied Strategical Bomber Forces'. In particular, they felt that oil targets in the Ruhr should be attacked by Bomber Com- 1 Air Min. to S.H.A.E.F., Bomber Command, U.S.S.T.A.F. and M.A.A.F., 9th July 1944. 2 J.I.C. Oil Reports, 24th July and 7th Aug. 1944. 3 do. 2Ist Aug. 1944. 51 mand in preference to city centres there or elsewhere, and they criti- cised the recent attack by Bomber Command upon Bremen as a mis- direction of effort. They thought that Crossbow should no longer enjoy priority over oil and, as far as the Luftwaffe was concerned, they believed that the oil offensive would produce more damaging effects than further attacks upon aircraft production or ball-bearings plants. '. . . a shortage of fuel', they said, 'rather than a shortage of aircraft or aircrews already promises to be the immediate factor in G.A.F. operations'. They recognised that synthetic and refining oil plants would not always provide a sufficient number of targets in suitable weather areas on any given day or night. Nevertheless, in suggesting that oil should be accorded 'overriding priority', the Assistant Chief of the Air Staff for Policy and the Director of Bomber Operations had really meant what they said, for, in these circumstances, t