the Ministry of Economic Warfare. In this Committee representatives of the different agencies discussed the evidence and put it into practical shape in a weekly bulletin. This information was neither so rapid nor as accurate as that derived from aerial reconnaissance, but it supplied on occasions new facts concerning the purpose of the different oil plants, the erection of new ones and the character and volume of their production.1 The photographic appreciations needed special technical know- ledge besides the skill to interpret the photographs. The organisation had been divided, therefore, into different sections and technical experts were attached to each. In July, after some criticism of the oil intelligence by experts, the oil division was reinforced for this purpose.2 The success of its appreciations was, perhaps, more 1 Oil as a Factor in the German War Effort, 1933-1945. Lack of technical knowledge prevented underground channels from providing much useful information. Other sources were escaped prisoners of war, transport information, commercial messages, information in the liberated territories from men who had worked in the plants. Memo. by Lawrence, 3rd Jan. 1945. 2 This reinforcement was due to a report of Lt .- Col. Foster, an oil expert. R.E.8 were also called upon to assist the Oil Division of the Central Interpretation Unit.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 212 CHANGES IN ALLIED METHODS remarkable than those of any other target system. Much of this success was due to the manner in which the Hartley Committee and the oil section of M.E.W. had studied the problem in previous years. But the duty now became very exacting and important and it should be noted that the main responsibility for the final photographic appreciations was borne by an officer of the Royal Air Force of junior rank, Flight Lieutenant P. E. Kent, to whose exceptional talents high tributes were paid in the Oil Committees. 1 It was on these committees that the strategic air forces depended fo