ction of the plants was already nearly complete.4 It certainly, however, at an earlier date affected the communications.') Report compiled by Speer from original documents, 6th Sept. 1945, Speer Docs. (Herford Series). 1 U.S.S.B.S. Effects of Strategic Bombing (No. 3), p. 81. 2 Oil in the German War Effort. The shortage also affected the training of the tank crews as it did that of Luftwaffe pilots. 3 U.S.S.B.S. Impact on German Logistics (No. 64a), p. 71. 4 The British survey does not agree with this conclusion, but the United States team based its opinion on an examination of the situation in a number of plants and it seems 241 programme of dispersal and the distribution of the oil to its final destination. There was little storage room at the plants and, when the supply of tank cars was inadequate, production had to be somewhat reduced.1 It is also sometimes claimed that the under- ground plants would have been completed if transportation diffi- culties had not slowed up the process. Here again, however, the effect was too late in the day to have made any important difference to the result.2 In most of the plants also raw material was close at hand and its supply little affected by damage to rail transport. Similarly area bombing, though it often reduced electric power and water for a short time, had not, in the opinion of the German tech- nicians, any important effect on the production of oil. The plants in the Ruhr where it might have produced this effect were destroyed at an early stage of the offensive. But, as has been noted, some of the benzol plants there were destroyed by area bombing and no doubt production in others was reduced by the same cause. The large mobile units necessary for the work of repair and rehabilitation also used up some motor petrol which could ill be spared. All this bombing and that on other targets in Germany which was going on in these months added to the general strain on the German direction and the German people and the cumulati