came clear, in other words, that the problem of air superiority hinged upon some means of direct and effective attack upon the Luftwaffe in being. The British Air Staff was slow to accept this conclusion and, indeed, never entirely admitted it. The United States Air Staff had always had it more in mind, but they too were slow to give expression to the necessary measures. Thus, for a long period, the strategic air offensive was placed in the circumstance of a vicious circle in which it scarcely mattered whether the bombing policy was general or selective. For that reason, it cannot be established that, in their dis- pute with Sir Arthur Harris on this issue, the Air Staff was right and he was wrong. On the contrary, whatever the theoretical merits of the argument may have been, it was Sir Arthur Harris who showed the more realistic appreciation of the possibilities. When, however, first the German day fighter and then the night fighter force began to collapse as a result of a highly complicated combination of direct and indirect and premeditated and fortuitous pressures, this situation was entirely changed and, in fact, almost reversed. With the opportunities afforded by increasing air superi- ority and the greatly increased scale and efficiency of attack which had also occurred, the strategic air offensive at last possessed the power of achieving decisive results, and for that reason the issue of 295 bombing policy became one of decisive importance. The principle of concentration deserved the greatest emphasis. But this was not easily done. The struggle between the ideas of general area bombing, which was still consistently advocated by Sir Arthur Harris, and selective bombing, which was now more or less constantly supported by the Air Staff, continued and was never con- clusively settled. Moreover, within the conception of selective bomb- ing, there were vigorous and powerfully supported competitions between the advocates of the various target systems which could b