vement. It led Sir Arthur Harris to con- clude that 'programme bombing' in support of ground troops 'would be extremely unreliable and almost wholly futile'. The only type of operation of this nature about which the Commander-in-Chief was reasonably optimistic was a '"drenching" attack' on a previously 1 Sir Arthur Harris said that the thirty minutes' marking might occasionally be extended by ordering out some P.F.F. crews twice in the same night. The twenty-minute gap was to enable the technicians to re-align the ground stations. 2 Naturally, separate briefing was required for each different target. Different petrol loads were required for different targets and the bomb load had to be related to the petrol load. Moreover, different kinds of target often called for different types of bombs. 27 selected beachhead, but he thought that the adverse effect on the morale of the enemy troops might be offset by the difficulty of move- ment created for the allied soldiers by the resulting devastation. There undoubtedly was some force in all these arguments. The complexity of night bombing operations was imperfectly understood by most officers who lacked the experience of directing them which had been acquired by Sir Arthur Harris and the Deputy Commander- in-Chief, Sir Robert Saundby. As a result, mistakes were made, effort was wasted, and which was more serious, tragic accidents did occur which even to this day are the subject of some bitterness and some misrepresentation. The responsibility for these misfortunes cannot be attributed to Sir Arthur Harris or his staff. Nevertheless, the question remained as to whether Sir Arthur Harris' technical and tactical appreciation, which tended to support the strategy of area attack on large German towns so strongly, was, in fact valid, as it indisputably had been in 1942. The Air Staff viewed it with considerable doubt, and on 27th February 1944 Sir Charles Portal, who, as will be remem- bered, had for some time suspected that Sir A