e law for the trained, the experienced and the properly equipped, and another for the untrained, the inexperienced and the ill-equipped. The art of high-level daylight formation flying was an advanced one in which the American crews were deeply versed both by special training and 1 In the first two cases the fundamental restriction upon the offensive potential of the fighters was their limited range which afforded them a short time in which to fight and a limited space in which to pursue their enemies. Another important factor was the relatively poor performance and wholly inadequate armament of the bombers which were, therefore, far more dependent upon the immediate presence of escorting fighters than the later American formations which flew at much greater heights and carried much more formidable armament.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 134 NEW OPERATIONAL FACTORS by considerable operational experience. The Bomber Command crews, on the other hand, were scarcely versed in it at all and few of them had ever undertaken an operational flight of any kind in day- light. Nor, on account of the constant pressure of operational duties, was there any prospect of their being trained to American standards. Moreover, the British Lancasters and Halifaxes could not climb to the great altitudes at which the American Fortresses and Liberators habitually operated. Nor did the British bombers possess anything like the fire power which had been built into the American forma- tions. Therefore, if Bomber Command was to seize the undoubted opportunity to attempt daylight bombing, it had to do something more than merely to imitate American methods. It had to devise its own tactics and techniques. During the summer of 1944 this process was begun, and, on the basis of cautious beginnings against relatively safe targets, Bomber Command eventually contributed a substantial daylight element to the Combined Bomber Offensive. Thereby the versatility of the force was yet further increased and another o