eld both in the Air Ministry and at the headquarters of the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe. General Spaatz, who con- tinued to reside mainly at headquarters in France, had not welcomed the change any more than Sir Arthur Harris. But Air Commodore Bufton and Colonel Maxwell, his opposite number at the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe, were able to secure in October 1 Mins. of 28th Mtg. of the C.S.T.C., 2nd May 1945. 'The work of damage assessment has been performed almost entirely from aerial photography. This work has called for a special order of skill in technical industrial interpretation, and the consistent accuracy of the results achieved testifies to the exceptional talents of Flight Lieut. Kent and the staff of D. Section, A.C.I.U.' (Allied Central Interpretation Unit). 2 See Basil Collier: The Defence of the United Kingdom, p. 379. 213 the establishment of a new advisory committee to review and co- ordinate the economic intelligence. Thus, as has been seen in Chapter XII, the Combined Strategic Targets Committee was set up, of which they were joint chairmen.1 Represented on it originally were the Operations and Intelligence Directorates of the Air Ministry, the United States Strategic Air Forces and the British and United States Embassy economic departments already serving on the oil committee. Representatives of S.H.A.E.F., Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force were also present, and it was soon seen that they must become permanent members of the committee and each had generally two representatives.2 'In this way', Air Com- modore Bufton was reported as saying, 'the Staffs of the Operational Commands would have a direct and continuous knowledge of the background of current bombing policy and the Committee would have the benefit of operational advice.' 3 Thus, for the first time there was in a position of considerable, if by no means undisputed, authority as the main advisory body of the offensive such a committee as Mr. Vickers h