me satisfaction upon the progress made by Bomber Command and the United States Strategic Air Forces in the execution of the oil plan, they also recognised the extent to which their aims had been frustrated by competing ideas. All were gravely concerned by the extent to which the strategic bombers were being diverted to the role of direct army support. The command arrange- ments made at Quebec in September 1944 had not secured the desired results. Meanwhile, the German counter-offensive in the Ardennes had come as a rude shock to any who were still complacent about the general war situation. Though the ensuing battle soon turned in favour of the allies, the initial strength of the thrust had the effect of suggesting that the Germans were stronger than had been supposed and, in fact, than they actually were. This, of course, was a purely moral effect, but there was also a material result. Not only was there a renewed diversion of the strategic bomber effort to the urgent call of the battlefield, but General Eisenhower's plan for an advance into Germany was delayed. The cause of Russia was thereby served better than that of Germany, but the cause of Britain and the United States was retarded with results which only became fully apparent some years later. Moreover, the feeling that final victory in Europe was overdue was rendered more acute by a sense of foreboding which arose from the sinister pace and scope of weapon developments. The imminent possibilities of atomic power were, of course, realised only by a few, but the Germans in retreat had already demonstrated that security 1 Letters Harris to Portal, 24th Jan. 1945, and Portal to Harris, 25th Jan. 1945. 95  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 96 ANTI-CLIMAX AND CLIMAX does not always march with the big battalions. It had been a dis- quieting coincidence that, almost as the allied soldiers went ashore in Normandy, the first flying bombs reached London and that as, in turn, their launching sites were overrun, the V-2 rockets b