in to be closed. This process continued until finally, early in January, the Germans were forced to abandon the area altogether for their important trials and training. The value attached to it by the German Admiralty may be seen by the fact that Doenitz had con- tinually put pressure on Hitler to defend Danzig in order that he might retain his training establishment there. But the trials and train- ing had now to be transferred to four other areas, Oslo fjord being chosen for the deep diving trials and Schnorkel training. Though the Danzig area was only shut down completely for seven weeks in 1944, restrictions and partial prohibition had to be enforced during the rest of the time and the final dispersal affected adversely both the standard and duration of the pre-operational training.1 The exact effect of all this delay cannot be exactly estimated. But it seems probable that as many as twenty of the new type XXI U-boats might have become fully operational at the end of 1944 or early in 1945 had it not occurred. The allied navies managed to curtail the 1 These facts were discovered by Captain Peyton-Ward, R.N., upon an examination of the papers of Admiral Friedeberg. For the attitude of Doenitz, see Chester Wilmot: The Struggle for Europe, (1952), pp. 619-620.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 278 23 THE DIRECT ATTACK attacks of the older types of U-boats fitted with the Schnorkel. But an attack in the Atlantic at the same time by the new U-boats might have been more difficult to counter and might have inflicted con- siderable loss on the allied merchant navies with serious effects on the supply lines already dangerously stretched. That this attack did not take place was largely due to Bomber Command. The naval staffs, while urging more attacks on the construction yards, hardly realised the great importance of the mining operations or how much they had accomplished. Indeed, it was long before research in the German records revealed what had been done. But the mining of th