is so much deplored in the case of the oil plan. This was the characteristic of the hydra. 2 Letter Harris to Portal, 18th Jan. 1945. 3 Letter Portal to Harris, 20th Jan. 1945.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 94 in the outcome, as was shown by a further exchange of letters, there was neither success nor satisfaction either for Sir Arthur Harris or for Sir Charles Portal.1 Though Bomber Command in concert with the United States Strategic Air Forces had already achieved outstanding results in the destruction of the German ability to continue the war by attacks on oil, communications and other targets, and though these forces were yet to achieve even more important results, their ultimate success was delayed and eventually merged with and, to some extent, was even overtaken by, the general victory of all allied arms operating from all directions. 5. Anti-climax and climax January-May 1945 The year 1945 opened with a severe sense of anti-climax in the western camp of the Grand Alliance. It was obvious that great oppor- tunities had been lost or at least only partially exploited in the closing months of 1944, and nowhere was the feeling of frustration more pro- nounced than in the minds of those concerned with the direction of the strategic air offensive. Sir Arthur Harris believed that the cul- mination of the general area offensive, which he regarded as seventy per cent completed, was being delayed by unwarranted or ill- informed interference. Sir Arthur Tedder had been able to win only qualified and reluctant approval of his plans for a communications offensive. The dissatisfaction of General Spaatz and of his superiors in Washington was shown by their constant search for some new and more decisive air strategy. Though Sir Charles Portal and the Air Staff could look back with some satisfaction upon the progress made by Bomber Command and the United States Strategic Air Forces in the execution of the oil plan, they also recognised the extent to which their aims had been frust