on an immense scale, there were profound and enduring differences of opinion about what the main aim should be  CONCLUDING SURVEY 310 THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE and the system of higher direction was in many respects inadequate. Even so, it may be doubted whether a greater application of selective area bombing up to the time of the invasion of France in June 1944 would have produced better results than flowed from the general offensive. The restraining factors were due less to the differences of opinion than to the high casualty rate and the impossibility of achieving precise attacks. In the Battle of Berlin, Bomber Command endangered its morale by pressing the attacks to the point at which the results achieved did not compensate for the losses sustained. In certain hypothetical circumstances, the capacity for night pre- cision bombing in Germany might have been achieved earlier. If the aim had been to produce a much smaller and far more highly trained force the conditions, in that respect, might have been somewhat more favourable, but no completely adequate substitute for visual marking was ever discovered and visual marking in the face of effec- tive defences called not only for training but also for a degree of . dedicated courage which was inevitably rare. The high-level radar tactics of the Pathfinder Force brought about a dramatic improve- ment in area bombing but, over most targets, they did not make precision bombing possible. The greatest feat of night precision bombing ever achieved-the breaching of the Möhne and Eder dams-resulted in a completely unacceptable casualty rate. Sus- tained daylight bombing of deep penetration by heavy aircraft with- out comprehensive fighter cover proved to be not a feasible opera- tion of war. The principal cause of the delay in achieving the possi- bility of effective daylight operations was the delay in introducing an effective long-range fighter. The responsibility for this latter delay, as also for the eventual and triu