ed out. After all, neither General Spaatz nor Sir Arthur Tedder had yet been consulted and the matter had not yet been put before the Vice-Chiefs of Staff. Indeed, in the light of what 1 Min. Sinclair to Churchill, 26th Jan. 1945. 103 Sir Charles Portal had told Sir Norman Bottomley on the same day, Sir Archibald Sinclair was hardly in a position to go further. Never- theless, Mr. Churchill did not think this was far enough, for he im- mediately sent the following minute to Sir Archibald Sinclair: 26 January 1945: Prime Minister to Secretary of State for Air 'I did not ask you last night about plans for harrying the German retreat from Breslau. On the contrary, I asked whether Berlin, and no doubt other large cities in East Germany, should not now be considered especially attractive targets. I am glad that this is "under examination". Pray report to me to-morrow what is going to be done'.1 The note of urgency and even of irony in this somewhat per- emptory minute was abundantly clear. It was, perhaps, due to a desire on the part of the Prime Minister to be able to show the Russians at the forthcoming meeting at Yalta that the strategic air forces in the West were capable of contributing to the Russian campaign in the East. However that may have been, it resulted in precipitate action. Without further consultation, Sir Norman Bottomley despatched an official letter to Sir Arthur Harris. With it, he enclosed the two reports of the Joint Intelligence Committee dealing with the implica- tions of the Russian advance.2 In the letter he drew the Commander- in-Chief's attention to Sir Charles Portal's doubts about the full-scale Thunderclap plan, but he also told him that the Chief of the Air Staff was in favour of one big attack on Berlin and of related operations against Dresden, Leipzig, Chemnitz and 'any other cities where a severe blitz will not only cause confusion in the evacuation from the East but will also hamper the movement of troops from the West'. These target