was des- cribed as the co-ordination of offensive operations were taking place with the Russians. At a plenary session held on 4th February 1945, General Antonov, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Red Army, tabled a memorandum on the operations of the Soviet forces in the recent and continuing offensive. The memorandum concluded with a number of suggestions as to how the Western allies might contribute to its ultimate success. One of these related to the employment of strategic bombers. It was asked that the Germans should be prevented from moving troops to the East from the Western front, Norway and Italy 'by air attacks against communications' and 'in particular' it was suggested that the bombers should 'paralyze the centres: Berlin and Leipzig'.4 Thus, by asking for attacks on east German cities the Russians had broadly confirmed the instructions which had already and inde- pendently been given to Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force and, as far as the two targets of Berlin and Leipzig were concerned, they had done so specifically. Nevertheless, Sir Charles Portal 1 Bottomley to Portal, 31st Jan. 1945. The message was also circulated as a C.O.S. memorandum, but it appears that General Kuter had no knowledge of it until 13th February. 2 V.C.O.S. to C.O.S., 2nd Feb. 1945, and V.C.O.S. Mtg., Ist Feb. 1945. 3 Portal to Bottomley, 6th Feb. 1945. · Translation of Report by Antonov dated 3rd February 1945. Annex to Record of Yalta 2nd Military Meeting, 4th February 1945. Argonaut 2nd Military Meeting.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 106 ANTI-CLIMAX AND CLIMAX showed that his approval of the plan was qualified. He suggested that the oil offensive was the best contribution which the heavy bombers could make. Efforts would be made to disorganise German com- munications, but he thought that an attempt to cut railways in the middle of Germany to stop troop movements would produce only disappointing results. Marshal Khudyakov, Chief of the Soviet Air Staff, agreed that it would be imp