es for the army.3 1 Sir Arthur Harris never used the word 'panacea' to describe the general area offensive. He reserved it for attacks upon 'key points' such as oil production, ball-bearings plants, railway centres, and so on. Nevertheless, he clearly believed and frequently stressed that city centres were keys to the functioning of the German war economy. There was always some doubt as to whether the physical or the psychological (morale) effects of area bombing were more important, and the relative values placed upon them varied greatly from year to year. On the whole Sir Arthur Harris seems to have expected more from the former than the latter. See, for example, Bomber Offensive, pp. 79 and 88. 2 This suggestion is implicit in a minute of Sir Charles Portal's to Sir Norman Bottomley of 23rd December 1943 which is cited in Vol. II, pp. 67-68. 3 It must be remembered that among the great number of incidental effects of area bombing was damage to communications and oil production. Oil plants and even marshalling yards are, however, seldom in the centres of towns, and the more accurate It was, nevertheless, still much more difficult to hit an oil plant or 45 a marshalling yard in Germany at night than to strike a blow against a large city, and the operational arguments in favour of area bomb- ing, though of diminishing force, were by no means exhausted. More- over, the conditions of the last year of the war produced certain new strategic arguments in favour of an all-out attack on German morale. Neither of these reasons, however, fully explains the gigantic effort devoted to general area bombing by Bomber Command in the final offensive, nor, as will duly be seen, did Sir Charles Portal regard this either as inevitable or desirable. The successful establishment of General Eisenhower's armies on the Normandy beachheads in June 1944 and their break-out towards the end of July did not permit Bomber Command and the United States Strategic Air Forces to resume a full-scale