ities. These were numerous but the positions of many of the most important were known and the attack was fairly successful. Some were injured by the area bombing of Bomber Command. The attack on communica- tions also brought a heavier weight of bombs to bear on this area. It was the plants in central and eastern Germany that now needed more attention. The Eighth Air Force attacked Leuna several times, but it could not do sufficient damage to prevent some production taking place and the same was true of other plants in this area. Pölitz the Eighth Air Force could not reach in the short days and Pölitz was now producing substantial amounts of aviation spirit. This partial recovery in production was realised by the oil com- mittees and their findings were in October endorsed emphatically by the C.S.T.C. They, indeed, had an exaggerated view of the quantities of oil being produced. Their information was much less complete than in the summer months because reconnaissance was often impossible and they naturally in such circumstances sometimes advised unnecessary attacks on plants in the Ruhr which could not recover for a long time. Still the large plants there needed some attention and the committees were entirely right in thinking that Leuna, Pölitz and Brüx were the principal producers of aviation spirit. From October onwards they began to emphasise this aspect of the attack, for the effect of the shortage on the Luftwaffe was already apparent. These plants with Böhlen were placed at the top of the priority list. view that reconstruction was a hopeless task because immediately followed by a new attack. 1 There are some discrepancies in the figure for the total amount of aviation petrol produced in November, but it was over forty thousand tons and three-quarters of this was produced in the three plants of Pölitz, Leuna and Brüx.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 234 THE ATTACK ON OIL During October and November Bomber Command made no attacks on oil outside the Ruhr-Rhineland ar