e been considering the effect on total production. The effect on the production of armaments was exerted more slowly because the factories making essentials were in some cases enabled to go on at the expense of less important indus- tries. They obtained the lion's share of the coal and electric power available and priority in such transport as could be obtained. The decline in their production was, therefore, slower than in the other industries sacrificed to them. This is true inside the Ruhr as well as outside it. 2 In addition to the area bombing of industrial towns, there were direct attacks on three target systems during this period, one for each of the armed services, tanks, motor vehicles and ordnance depots for the armies, aircraft and aircraft engines for the air forces and U-boat construction for the navies. In these, again, it is impossible to dis- tinguish the precise effect of the direct attacks from that of those on the communications target system. Moreover, area bombing in these, as in other target systems, was sometimes more effective in reducing production than the attacks aimed at specific industries. It is, how- ever, possible, as before, to distinguish from the records which we possess the effect in some particular area or period of time from the general effect. On the whole, though with some differences, the pat- tern which emerges is similar to that produced by the area bombing attack. 1 Such evidence as we possess is conflicting. U.S.S.B.S. Impact on German Logistics (No. 64a), p. 61. 2 The decline in armament production may be illustrated by a table compiled by Wagenfuehr. The later figures can only be considered as an approximation but are made by an independent observer with an exceptional knowledge of the overall situation. Armament production July 1944-March 1945 Month Total in Billions of Reichsmarks Index (Jan .- Feb. 1942 = 100) 322 July 2.99 August 2.76 297 September 2.80 October 2.54 November 2.49 301 273 268 December 2.45 263 Januar