strial and technical information about the potential targets by a number of agencies, amongst which the Ministry of Economic Warfare had the foremost place. Often the criticism which it received from Bomber Command was due less to the faults of the intelligence than to the failure of the bombers to inflict the expected degree of damage. Closer relations between the Ministry of Economic Warfare and Bomber Command, which would have enabled intelligence to be considered more in the context of operational capacities, might have obviated some of the grounds of mistrust which made that co-operation difficult. One of the defects of Sir Arthur Harris' great qualities was his profound mistrust of the advice of experts. Even so, though not always in the expected way, this mistrust was sometimes justified by events. The cardinal error of intelligence was the description of the Ger- man economy as tightly stretched and in decline when it was, in reality, resilient, cushioned and increasingly productive, and of the German people as exhausted, disaffected and liable to panic and revolt when, in reality, and on the whole, they were vigorous, calm, stoical and loyal. In the former case, the Ministry of Economic War- fare had a heavy responsibility, and in the latter it was widely shared but especially due to the Foreign Office, which had a basically un- sound but highly influential view of German morale. These errors enabled an entirely false argument to be used in favour of general 303 area bombing. Nor, until the war was over, was it realised that the cities and towns listed for general area attack contained a smaller proportion of important industry than had been estimated by the Ministry of Economic Warfare. Thus, even while area bombing was operationally inevitable, the argument for making it selective was weakened and that in favour of making it general was strengthened for erroneous reasons. On the other hand, the more detailed intelligence about the struc- ture and contents