in 1940 partly stra- tegic and partly tactical, not only in the results it was intended to achieve but in its actual conception. In 1944, as has been shown in the previous section, they again emerged as the leading alternatives in the pre-Overlord and initial Overlord period, but General Spaatz's oil plan was, it will be recalled, rejected on the grounds that its effects would not be sufficiently im- mediate to impede the German army in the opening phase of the allied invasion. Oil was not mentioned in the Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary Force directive of 17th April 1944. Neverthe- less, the oil plan, having thus apparently competed with and failed against the communications plan, did eventually mingle with it to become, as some have suggested, the most important part of the final offensive.1 Before proceeding to explain this important development 1 Professor Fagg, the American official historian of these events, writes, for example, 'During the climax of the pre-invasion bombings the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces launched what was to become their most rewarding campaign in the strategic air war, the destruction of enemy oil production'. The Army Air Forces in World War II, Vol. III, p. 172.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 44 OIL, COMMUNICATIONS AND MORALE it is, however, necessary to refer to the third principal element in the final offensive, namely, the continuation of general area bombing. The decision to adopt the policy of area bombing had, it will be realised, been initially dictated by operational facts though there were, of course, strategic arguments to support it. Moreover, the develop- ment of the area offensive along general, in distinction to particular or selective lines, was also largely determined by operational facts. The resulting campaign, however, was not intended simply as a senseless or retaliatory slaughter. On the contrary, its design was to dislocate the German war economy by the destruction of what were regarded as profitable target