jective was the Ruhr. The Army commanders wished to use air power to disrupt the flow of German reinforcements and supplies across the Rhine and 1 Letter Portal to Tedder, 22nd Oct. 1944. 2 Letter Tedder to Portal, 25th Oct. 1944.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 70 THE PROBLEM OF CONCENTRATION also, as a secondary object, to hinder the withdrawal of heavy equip- ment back across the Rhine, but the only direct strategic contribu- tion made towards the fulfilment of these aims had, Sir Arthur Tedder said, been the oil offensive, the attack on the Dortmund-Ems Canal and some operations against ordnance and motor transport depots. Tactical air operations had included some railway-line cutting by bombers, firing upon trains by fighters and some mainly unsuccessful attacks on bridges. 'I am not satisfied', Sir Arthur Tedder said, 'that, on these lines, we are using our Air power really effectively. The various types of operations should fit into one comprehensive pattern, whereas I feel that at present they are more like a patchwork quilt.' Equally 'patchwork', it seemed to Sir Arthur Tedder, was the pat- tern of the strategic air offensive. Oil targets, city areas, depots, mar- shalling yards, canals, factories, and so on, did not, in his view, 'build up into a really comprehensive pattern'. Having thus suggested the extent to which the strategic air offensive and the air effort in direct support of the armies lacked a design and a relationship, Sir Arthur Tedder turned to the controversial question of what ought to be done. 'The one common factor in the whole German war effort, from the political control down to the supply of troops in the front line, is', he said, 'communications', and these, he suggested, should be the 'prim- ary Air objective'. The attack should fall on road, rail and canal communications. The oil plan, Sir Arthur Tedder now admitted, in addition to restricting air movement, was the key to the paralysis of the roads, but the railways and canals could be dir