ulated. To these factors Bomber Command then had to apply its expectation of the marking and bombing error and of the abortive sortie rate in order to determine the required scale of attack. An allowance also had to be made for the fact that in most cases the : 1 100 Group Review. 2 For the results of the attack on Trappes see the photograph facing p. 150. 3 A table of these operations is at App. 47. S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-L  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 152 PRECISION BOMBING AT NIGHT bomb load could not be made up entirely of five-hundred-pound bombs. 1 Allowing for the Oboe marking error and the main force aiming error, it was expected that there would be an overall average bomb- ing error of 640 yards for the bombs which were effectively aimed and it was anticipated that seventy per cent of the bombs despatched would be effectively aimed and would detonate. In fact, the average bombing error for the effectively aimed bombs amounted for these fifteen attacks to 680 yards, but only fifty-five per cent of the des- patched bombs were effectively aimed. The expectation that thirty per cent of the despatched bombs would not be effectively aimed had been based on the assumption that ten per cent of the sorties would be abortive, that ten per cent of the bombs dropped would fail to detonate and that a further ten per cent would, owing to gross errors, be dropped far outside the target area. Experience of the fifteen operations showed that almost exactly ten per cent of the sorties were, in fact, abortive and it revealed nothing to suggest that more than ten per cent of the bombs had been duds. It did appear, however, that twenty-five and not ten per cent of the bombs had been dropped with a gross error, and had fallen far away from the targets. This was due not to carelessness by the main force bomb-aimers but to a much higher proportion of gross errors by the Oboe Mosquito markers than had been expected. 2 This, indeed, despite the considerable and remarkable success achiev