ade. The accumulator batteries, of which a larger num- ber were needed for the new U-boats, were produced in four plants, at which one, at Posen, was but a small one, while that in Vienna was destroyed on a date not exactly known, but probably by an attack of the Fifteenth Air Force in July 1944. One of the two remain- ing in Hagen was damaged by area bombing of Bomber Command in October 1943 and completely destroyed in the same way in December 1944. The other, near Hanover, which produced most of the batteries in 1944, was never attacked, but its production was re- duced by shortage of gas and electric current due to area attacks on Hanover in November 1944. By 1945 there was a shortage of bat- teries and consequent limitation of production but probably not very much beyond that due to other causes. 1 The area bombing of Berlin in 1943-44, which, as was noted, caused the dispersal of the electrical industry there and a successful attack by the Eighth Air Force on another works at Mannheim on 14th August 1944, caused a shortage in another vital component, electric motors. This apparently caused but little delay for there were almost enough to meet the needs of the revised programme.2 One of the main causes of this revision was the bombing of the canals which reduced the number of sections sent to the assembly plants by ten of the twenty-two firms making them. While the average number of sections passing through Münster lock had been 106, it fell to thirty in October, eighteen in November and seventeen in December.3 Thus, all the different forms of bombing were producing effects, area and precision attacks as well as the attack on communications, which was, however, the main reason for the delay in the programme. Then, in addition, came the attack on the yards which, as 1945 went on, became so overwhelming that before the end of April production had virtually ceased, though there were still some uninjured U-boats on the slipways. In this bombing the 4,000-lb. bombs o