rder of the Day Portal to Harris, 16th April 1945. S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-I  CHAPTER XIII THE CULMINATION OF THE OFFENSIVE: NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS Bombing techniques, 1944-45 I. New operational factors in the strategic air offensive, 1944-45 2. Overlord and the strategic air offensive. The de- velopment of precision bombing at night, April- June 1944 3. The development of day attack by Bomber Com- mand and the establishment of new conditions in the night offensive, June-October 1944 4. The operational climax, October 1944-May 1945 'In the latter stages of a war after some years of lavish expenditure of money, material, and manpower in the equipment and manning of all arms of the fighting ser- vices, military problems have a way of becoming rela- tively easy of solution.' LORD TEDDER, 1947 'It has now been reported that the attacks which take place so often at night now, are considerably more effective than daylight attacks, since heavier bombs are used and an extraordinary accuracy in attacking the target is reported.' ALBERT SPEER, 19th January 1945 I2I  Bombing techniques 1944-45 OBOE SKY MARKING (Musical Wanganui) Blind Oboe sky marking-main force normally approaches in the same direction as Oboe run in and bombs sky markers at 165 m.p.h. with zero wind velocity on bombsight. OBOE GROUND MARKING (Musical Paramatta) Blind Oboe ground marking backed up as necessary with Target Indicators of different colour. Main force aims preferably at Oboe Target Indicators. CONTROLLED OBOE Oboe Target Indicators are assessed by Master Bomber who instructs main force by Radio Telephone and sometimes backs up best Oboe markers with further Target Indicators of distinctive colour. 8 GROUP VISUAL Similar to controlled Oboe (though may be used beyond Oboe range with H2S or eyesight). Master Bomber visually assesses Oboe markers and re-marks visually. H2S GROUND MARKING (H2S Paramatta) Similar to Oboe ground marking but, because H2S is less accurate, more initial markers are put do