nearly all of which came from beyond the frontier of the Reich and which were essential for weapon production. But Speer showed him that sufficient stocks remained to carry on the armaments industry for a long period and later asserted that he himself never tried to influence strategy for this purpose. Only as regards Upper Silesia did Speer appeal to the Army; for its loss at that juncture meant that it would be impossible to go on.1 One of the reasons for which so much production could continue was that there were still surprisingly large stocks of raw materials and components which had escaped previous efforts to ferret them out. Speer instituted a special search amongst the Army dumps and a large amount of much-needed equipment was found.2 It is to be noted also that the small firms were less affected by the bombing than the larger and highly organised ones. As Speer pointed out, it was those whose production had been intensively rationalised which suffered most. The aircraft components were little affected by area bombing because the factories making them were now situated for the most part outside the large towns. Thus, large quantities of weapons con- tinued to be manufactured to the end of 1944 and even much later.3 All these measures only delayed the rapid fall in production of every- thing that was needed to carry on the war. Yet in the midst of the destruction the German armies still fought bravely and the workers still continued their efforts so long as the means to do so were avail- able. They were sustained by the assurances of Goebbels that new wonder weapons would transform the situation. They were also kept to their work by the pressure of the Gestapo. Those with more know- ledge still placed hope in the jet fighters and the thought that the Western Powers would fall out with the communist East when the end approached. After the war Speer and others at Nuremberg and some of the defeated Generals asserted that the demand for uncondi- tional surrender