discrepancy. Amongst other causes suggested were destruction by unskilled ferrying, reporting repaired aircraft twice as new aircraft, loss of aircraft in the retreat from France and Belgium and deliberate falsification of figures. But the officials interro- gated do not seem to have perceived that any problem existed until it was pointed out to them by the allied investigators. 1 Ernst Heinkel: He 1000 (1956), pp. 234-235, 266-268. These judgments are those of the manufacturer himself and only present his view. 2 Frydag Interrogation, June 1945. B.B.S.U. German Aircraft Industry, p. 22.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 272 THE DIRECT ATTACK the Heinkel firm, for good reasons according to Petersen, the official who had much influence on the decision, but in the view of Heinkel himself for less defensible motives. 1 The Me.262 was flown as early as June 1943 and made its first attack on a Mosquito on 25th July 1944. General Galland and others had high hopes that it might completely alter the balance of force in the air. It was much faster than any allied fighter and heavily armed. There is a consensus of opinion that it was Hitler's obstinate in- sistence that it should be used as a bomber that delayed its mass pro- duction as a fighter.ª But when in November that decision was revised the fact that it was so long before the Me.262 made any significant contribution to fighter defence would appear to show that there were other causes at work. There were in fact all the inherent difficulties of developing a new type of this kind and of training the pilots to employ it effectively, difficulties much increased by the condition into which the lack of oil had reduced their training. At any rate it was not until 1945 that they seemed to become any very serious threat to the United States air force. In this later period Hitler began to express the greatest interest in their performance and himself suggested that they would transform the situation. Hitherto he had insisted that flak