is time the target was the oil plant at Sterkrade. Sixteen Mosquitoes and six Lancasters of the Pathfinder Force were des- patched to do the marking and backing up and they were followed by 162 Halifaxes of 4 and 6 Groups and 137 Lancasters of 1 and 6 Groups.3 The weather on this night was somewhat worse than the bad conditions which had in any case been forecast. Thick cloud covered the whole of the route and the target, where it rose to a height 1 The 276 aircraft which claimed to have attacked the target carried 1,440.8 tons of H.E. and 3'5 tons of incendiary bombs. Included in this were two hundred and seventy- three 4,000-lb. bombs. 2 O.R.S. Nt. Raid Report. 3 The Halifaxes were all the new improved Mark III version, but twenty-two of them failed to return all the same. Nine of the Lancasters failed to return. 16I of fourteen thousand feet. This rapidly converted the Pathfinder Force marking into little more than a faint glow which, nevertheless, served to some extent as an aiming point in a rather scattered attack. It was, perhaps, remarkable that the daylight reconnaissance showed that nine units of the Sterkrade plant had been damaged. The attacking force had approached the target in two waves, one passing to the north and the other to the south of Rotterdam. This ruse confused the enemy for a time, but as the bombers converged upon Sterkrade they also drew near to the German fighter beacon at Bocholt over which the German controller had unfortunately assembled his force. In the resulting encounter the bombers and par- ticularly the Halifaxes suffered heavily. Thirty-one of the total force failed to return, of which ten were probably destroyed by flak.1 Five nights later on 21st June the oil plants at Wesseling and Scholven-Buer were attacked by somewhat different methods. In the first case the attack was to be directed by the 5 Group visual marking technique, but if the red spot fires could not be seen from the bomb- ing height of seventeen to twenty-two th