y different policies adopted for Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force. The Defence Committee still had occasional opportunities for considering aspects of bombing policy but the Prime Minister, who presided over the Defence Com- mittee, seldom used it for that purpose. Most of the great decisions of British bombing policy were, therefore, determined, if sometimes rather vaguely, by the Chiefs of Staff, and the directives continued to be issued on behalf of the Chief of the Air Staff. In April 1944, the functions of Sir Charles Portal in these respects were theoretically transferred to General Eisenhower and, in prac- tice, to his deputy, Sir Arthur Tedder. In the following September they were restored to Sir Charles Portal, but this time were jointly vested in him and General Arnold, Commanding General of the United States Army Air Forces. These two continued to be ultimately responsible to the Combined Chiefs of Staff and they acted through their respective subordinates, Sir Norman Bottomley and General Spaatz, who were, however, in no sense opposite numbers. In practice, with greater or lesser effect, nearly all the bombing directives from 1941 to 1945 were written by Sir Norman Bottomley  CONCLUDING SURVEY 306 THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE and in view of the varying authority which they reflected it is hardly surprising that some of them lacked clarity. The distinction between the strategic and the operational deci- sion was, in fact, never clearly defined. Sir Charles Portal's staff, and notably the Directorate of Bomber Operations, frequently gave advice which resulted in operational decisions which were enforced by the Chief of the Air Staff against the advice of the Commander- in-Chief. Thus were reached, amongst others, the decisions to adopt primarily incendiary tactics at the beginning of 1942, to bring into existence the Pathfinder Force later in the same year and to adopt massive daylight bombing in the late summer of 1944. In such cases, members of the