53 some time had confronted 617 Squadron. Fundamentally it was a problem of target marking and not of bomb aiming, and the great advances of April and May in overcoming it were founded upon the experience and also on many occasions upon the operational effort of 617 Squadron. So striking were these advances that the average den- sity of bombing around the aiming points in marshalling yards for operations in May increased by about a hundred and sixty-five per cent by comparison with the not unimpressive achievement in March.1 After his reverse at the Anthéor viaduct in February 1944, it will be remembered, Wing Commander Cheshire had resolved to try the Mosquito as a vehicle of low-level visual marking, and with that end in view he had gone to Colby Grange to familiarise himself with one of these machines. He concluded that the most promising method of operation was to dive towards the aiming point at an angle of about thirty degrees and from a height of a thousand feet or less, which in many cases was to be much less, to release his red spot fire target markers by visual aim, using the gunsight. This initial marking could then be increased by further red spot fires dropped by Lan- caster crews from higher altitudes and then bombed from still higher level by the striking force. Meanwhile, the whole operation could be controlled and directed by radio telephone from the Mosquito still flying low enough to see the aiming point clearly. This daring and ambitious dive-marking technique was first tested in action on the night of 5th April 1944. Diving in their Mosquito over the aircraft factory at Toulouse, Wing Commander Cheshire and his navigator, Flying Officer P. Kelly, dropped red spot fires on the aiming point. These were backed up by two Lancasters, also from 617 Squadron, and the target was then attacked 'with tre- mendous effect' by a hundred and forty Lancasters of 5 Group. Daylight reconnaissance photographs later showed that nearly all the buildings in the targ