ussians in the entertainment of their allies, had to be paid, and to all these difficulties others were added by last-minute changes of plan.1 In the event there was much confusion, and to make matters worse the weather in Archangel when the British aircraft reached it was appalling. From the thirty-eight Lancasters of 617 and 9 Squadrons which embarked on their transcontinental expedition on the evening of 11th September 1944, one had to return early to its English base because its Tallboy bomb came adrift and had to be jettisoned, six more were forced to make crash landings in Russia and had to be abandoned and two arrived so badly damaged that they were unfit for operations.2 Nevertheless, a wonderful feat of organisation, which included the flying to Yagodnik not only of the operational aircraft and crews, but of the ground crews in two Liberators, a Mosquito for weather reconnaissance and a Lancaster of the film unit, was achieved, and on 15th September twenty-eight Lancasters set off from Yagodnik to attack the Tirpitz in Alten fjord. Earlier the Mosquito surveyed the weather there and came back 1 Messages between 30 Mission (Russia) and Air Ministry, Sept., Oct. 1944. The original plan was to attack the Tirpitz, not as was actually done from Yagodnik, but on the way to it. 5 Group Operation Order, 7th Sept. 1944. 2 These aircraft and the equipment they carried were, no doubt, not unwelcome to the Soviet Air Force.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 194 with a favourable report. The question was, however, whether the Lancasters could get over the battleship before she hid herself in a smoke screen, and whether any last-moment change in the weather would blow cloud over her. The attacking force was divided into two sections. In the first, there were twenty-one Lancasters each armed with a Tallboy bomb, and in the second there were six Lancasters each armed with a number of the much smaller so-called Johnny Walker anti-shipping bombs. The remaining Lancaster which came fro