made in the interests of the Admiralty and the Special Operations Executive. The possibility that Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force might have to assist the Allied Expeditionary Force in the neutralisation of the V-Bomb threat was also mentioned. 1 This rambling document reproduced none of the clarity which had illuminated Sir Arthur Tedder's memorandum of 24th March. It made no attempt to reconcile the difference of view between General Spaatz and Sir Arthur Tedder, but it did make most substantial con- cessions to the objections which had been raised by Sir Arthur Harris, 1 The Bomber Command copy of this directive is printed in full in App. 8 (xxxviii). 37 though these had seemingly been outmoded by experiments and overruled by Sir Charles Portal. The continued belief, implicit in the directive, that Bomber Com- mand could play only a subordinate role to the United States Stra- tegic Air Forces on account of the operational limitations of night bombing was wholly unrealistic and, as far as the French railway campaign was concerned, almost the reverse of the truth. Bomber Command was in fact to play the leading part in executing the pre- cision attacks which, within the short period before D-Day, were to contribute so much to the disruption of the French railway system. Many of the tasks successfully fulfilled by the British night bombers were quite beyond the technical and tactical capabilities of the American day bombers and Bomber Command, which had always been a more destructive weapon than the Eighth Air Force by virtue of its greater bomb-carrying capacity, now showed signs of being also a more precise weapon. Of these important trends and the great possibilities which they opened there was little hint in the directive of 17th April 1944. If Sir Arthur Harris had continued to devote the greater part of his effort to area attacks on German towns he could scarcely, with justice, have been accused of disregarding its terms, for, in the directive, the diso