ngle pilot and a separate navigator and bomb aimer. In addition, the front line was increasingly equipped with new aircraft among which were included the Lancaster and the Mosquito. Not less important was the appointment in February 1942 of Air Marshal Harris as Commander-in-Chief. In consequence, the whole prospect of the offensive began to change. Most of the more ambitious kinds of precision attack were abandoned though, from time to time, some were still attempted and the energies of Bomber Command were devoted to making night area attack operationally effective. Thus, the operational aim was re- duced and the means of achieving it were increased. But the gap between the two was considerable. The essence of success in area bombing was heavy and concentrated attack. The majority of the aircrews in Bomber Command had not the necessary navigational skill to achieve the requisite concentration and the front line of the force was not nearly large enough to develop a sufficiently heavy scale of attack. The solution, some thought at the time and others have argued since, was to devote a major effort to training and so, throughout Bomber Command, to increase the skill of the force. Meanwhile, with the production of the new aircraft getting into its stride, the front line could gradually be increased to the necessary dimensions. Thus, by some stage of 1943, or perhaps 1944, a very highly trained and very much enlarged Bomber Command would have come into being. In the meantime, however, the offensive itself would have been subordinated to this aim. This, as others and notably Sir Arthur Harris recognised, might well have been fatal, for in order to attract a reasonable proportion of the national war effort, Bomber Com- mand required the advertisement, not of more promises about the future, but of actual, immediate and notable achievements. The result was that, early in 1942, the decision was taken to press the offensive forward with the utmost vigour at once. This meant m