at no appreciable effect could possibly be achieved within the envisaged time period' [i.e. the ninety days in which it was hoped to end the war]. Summary of statements by railway experts at the meeting, 26th Oct. 1944, and mins. of the Mtg., 24th Oct. 1944. 3 The Army Air Forces in World War II, Vol. III, pp. 621-622. 4 Mins. of 3rd Mtg. of the C.S.T.C., Ist Nov. 1944. It consisted at first of eleven members in addition to the Chairman, two each of Operations and Intelligence Direc- torates of the Air Ministry, two from U.S.St.A.F.E., one from S.H.A.E.F., one from the War Office, one from the Enemy Objectives Unit of the U.S. Embassy, one from the Eighth Air Force and Mr. Brant. Additions were made from time to time and the Committee finally consisted of fifteen members. S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-P  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 216 THE GERMAN RESPONSE TO BOMBING S.H.A.E.F. itself continued to make its own appreciations of the situation which by no means always agreed with those of the working committee or with the C.S.T.C. There was thus always controversy over appreciation of this target system and the results obtained by the attacks on it. After the strategic plans had been interfered with by the Ardennes offensive and an early termination of the war had grown less prob- able, all the three services demanded a larger share of the effort of the strategic air forces for direct assault on the weapons of the enemy. Thus, the working committee on the G.A.F. were much exercised by the possibilities of the new jet aircraft and that on the Armoured Fighting Vehicles and ordnance depots had to make more detailed studies of the manufacture and storage of tanks, motor vehicles and other weapons. The Admiralty was similarly concerned about the new U-boats. It had its own special committee on that target system which had also always reported to the C.S.T.C. and now pressed its claims upon it. There was thus a complicated prob- lem of deciding priorities within target systems, whi