. A third operation was mounted against the same target by over two hundred American bombers on 15th February, and on 2nd March the Eighth Air Force struck once more at Dresden, this time again with more than four hundred bombers. These blows, and particularly the Bomber Com- mand night attack, proved utterly ruinous to the city where, on an even more fearful scale, scenes reminiscent of the Battle of Hamburg were re-enacted. Meanwhile, on the night of 14th February, Bomber Command carried out a major attack on Chemnitz and the Eighth Air Force extended the campaign by further massive operations in- cluding one on 26th February against Berlin by more than a thousand bombers. The operations against Dresden were, therefore, only a part of a concerted action and the Bomber Command attack was only an ele- ment in a combined Anglo-American assault. Nevertheless, by far the heaviest damage was sustained by Dresden and by far the greatest · proportion of it was inflicted by the Bomber Command night attack. This was, indeed, the climax of the night area offensive. It was the crowning achievement in the long, arduous and relentless develop- ment of a principle of bombing which the Royal Air Force had initially adopted, as a retaliatory measure, in the attack on Mann- heim of December 1940, and to which the greater part of the Bomber Command effort had subsequently always been devoted. But as the area bombing of large cities was brought to a climax, so, at the same time, other more selective and more precise aspects of the strategic air offensive were also approaching theirs. Throughout all the disputes and distractions which had beset it, the Air Staff had not lost confidence in the decisive character of the oil plan. In 1945, as in the later months of 1944, they had subjected all competing bombing policies to critical examination and they had refused to abandon oil as the primary objective of the offensive. Though they had failed to enlist Sir Arthur Harris' belief in the p