ers would fall out with the communist East when the end approached. After the war Speer and others at Nuremberg and some of the defeated Generals asserted that the demand for uncondi- tional surrender had prolonged resistance. But the knowledge of what Germany had done to others and the hope of some miraculous change in the situation played a much greater part. 1 Report Speer to Hitler, 5th Sept. 1944, where his estimates show that adequate supply was assured well into 1945 and in most cases into 1946. Letter Speer to Guderian, 15th Dec. 1944, Speer Docs. (Hamburg Series). 2 Speech by Speer, 3rd Aug. 1944, Speer Docs. (Hamburg Series). Goebbels, who was present at the conference, when it was stated that a stock of 180,000 petrol canisters had been discovered under the heading 'water canisters', interjected, 'That is treachery all along the line.' 3 Frydag Interrogation, July 1945. Schaff (leader of Main Committee for Motor Vehicles) Interrogation, 10th Sept. 1945. Heydekampf (president of Henschel, Kassel) Interrogation.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 224 Until the destruction of Dresden at any rate there was little decline in the will to work.1 Less people were killed by air attacks in this period than might have been expected because they had learned how to live under such terrible conditions. To the end the workers, like the rank and file of the Army, remained faithful to the man who wished them to be totally destroyed rather than admit defeat. But the means of production had been taken away from them by the bombs of the enemy and the advance of the armies and in the closing weeks all was chaos and confusion. In the next three sections the contribution of the strategic bombing offensive to this result is examined in connection with the various tasks assigned to it. 1 'Pressure by the Gestapo succeeded for a long time in maintaining an artificial morale in spite of intense bombardment, but that a limit to this could be reached is clearly exemplified in the case of Dre