atz's recommendations were a logical extension of the ideas which had inspired the American interpretation of the Casablanca directive and which had since attracted the increasing support of the British Air Staff. They centred upon the development of a selective attack against key points in the German war economy. To Sir Arthur Harris this was, of course, simply a further development of the 'panacea mongers' campaign. General Spaatz was naturally not unaware of the imminence and overwhelming importance of Overlord, but he sought to adjust the course of his 'independent' offensive to the benefit of the coming military campaign rather than to sacrifice the former to the latter. There were, in General Spaatz's view, three fundamental principles to be observed. First, the policy adopted must lead to the achieve- ment of air superiority by the time of the allied invasion and to its maintenance thereafter. Secondly, the policy must continue to give the heavy bombers the opportunity of bringing about the outright collapse and capitulation of Germany, and thirdly, in the event of this not materialising, the policy must be designed so as to confer a marked degree of assistance to the allied campaign on land.1 It was on the second principle that General Spaatz was most closely in accord with Sir Arthur Harris and in most evident discord with Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory. It revealed the extent to which General Spaatz still subscribed to the old belief in the 'independent' potential of the strategic air offensive. He was prepared, not to sacri- fice this belief, but only to adapt it to the extent shown by his third principle. The bombing policy advocated by General Spaatz was, therefore, radically different to that postulated by Sir Trafford Leigh- Mallory's advice. General Spaatz had become convinced that there was a target system whose attack would fulfil the three basic require- ments which he had stated. This was German oil, and particularly petrol production. To General Spa