techniques possible. The result was that the distinc- tion between area and precision bombing was no longer so much one between the accuracy of attack, as the object of attack. Nevertheless, this development of bombing accuracy, which made Bomber Command so much more efficient in the use of its accus- tomed weapons against its accustomed targets, had also, in conjunc- tion with the introduction of new bombs, brought a whole range of new targets within the scope of its destructive power. The 12,000-lb. earthquake bomb, known as the Tallboy, which, like the extra- ordinary rotating bomb of the Dams raid, was a product of the genius of Mr. B. N. Wallis, had been operationally introduced by 617 Squadron in June 1944. Its first use was in the brilliant attack on the Saumur railway tunnel on the night of 8th June when nine- teen of these formidable weapons were aimed with the stabilised automatic bomb-sight at marking laid down by Wing Commander Cheshire. At least one direct hit was secured on the roof of the tunnel which fell in. Hits were also achieved on the cutting by which the tunnel was approached and the Germans never succeeded in clearing the line afterwards. This success was followed by a series of brilliant feats of destruction by 617 Squadron with Tallboys against a number of singularly robust targets including the concrete protected submarine pens at Brest, Lorient, St. Nazaire and La Pallice, the E-boat bases at Le Havre and Boulogne and the V-weapon constructional sites at Watten, Wizernes and Siracourt. On the night of 23rd September 1944 eleven Lancasters of 617 Squadron, led by Wing Commander J. B. Tait, who, on 12th July, had succeeded Wing Commander Cheshire, took off for the Dortmund-Ems Canal aqueduct near Münster with Tall- boy bombs. They were accompanied by another 125 Lancasters of 5 Group carrying smaller bombs and by five Mosquitoes to do the marking. The object was to breach the banks of the canal, which at this point was raised above the level