y. It was thus that the policy to govern the operations of Bomber Command came to depend upon the outcome of a dispute between an American general and a Royal Air Force fighter commander. This outcome was, however, to be much influenced by the views of Sir Arthur Tedder. The Deputy Supreme Commander had unique qualifications for the particular tasks and responsibilities which had now fallen upon him. His experience and his fame had been acquired neither as a 1 In his memoirs, Sir Arthur Harris has expressed the surprise with which he learnt of Bomber Command's abilities. Speaking of the French railway plan he says, 'There was, of course, no reason to believe that the bombing would be as accurate as it proved to be, and I myself doubted whether we could achieve the extraordinary precision needed if the project was to succeed'. Bomber Offensive, p. 197. In his 'Summing up', Sir Arthur Harris wrote, 'Bomber Command's attacks in the three months before D-Day were so effective, and the new means and tactics of precision bombing were so rapidly mastered (I myself did not anticipate that we should be able to bomb the French railways with anything like the precision that was achieved) that the invasion proved an infinitely easier task than had been expected . . . ' do., p. 266. It should, all the same, be pointed out that the means of achieving these results were not new, and that it was, of course, Sir Arthur Harris who had distinguished himself by drawing attention to the difficulties and hazards which he expected would be attendant upon the invasion. Moreover, the suggestion that 'there was, of course, no reason to expect that the bombing would be as accurate as it proved to be' was evidently not shared by Sir Charles Portal or by Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory. Nor was it reflected in the attitude of many of the crews who carried out these experimental operations. 29 fighter nor a bomber commander, but as an air force commander. His views upon air power had been developed i