1945 went on, became so overwhelming that before the end of April production had virtually ceased, though there were still some uninjured U-boats on the slipways. In this bombing the 4,000-lb. bombs of Bomber Com- mand dropped by Mosquitoes showed themselves to be specially effective.4 Clearly it is difficult to estimate the proportion of the loss caused 1 B.B.S.U. German U-Boats, p. 23. U.S.S.B.S. German Submarine Industry, p. 32. It was suggested by Speer in an interrogation that a precision attack on the works near Hanover would have stopped the production of the new U-boats altogether. The operations of the conventional U-boats were also affected by this shortage. 2 B.B.S.U. German U-Boats, p. 23. 3 B.B.S.U. The Strategic Air War, p. 157. A plan was made to cut the sections into smaller pieces so that they could be transported by train. U.S.S.B.S. German Submarine Industry, p. 34. 4 U.S.S.B.S. German Submarine Industry, p. 33.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 276 THE DIRECT ATTACK by each kind of attack. The most important reason for the great reduction in the programme of the type XXI U-boats was the diffi- culty of construction, though this had been overcome by the end of 1944. It may well be that Rudolf Blohm was right in thinking that better results could have been obtained by using the conventional methods of construction. The investigators have concluded that half the production loss in 1944 was due to this cause, and that the strategic air attack caused the loss of thirty U-boats in 1944 and a similar number in 1945. This total of sixty boats was considered to be equally divided between the indirect effects of other bombing and the direct effect of the attacks on the ports. In addition, fifteen were sunk after commission by allied bombing attacks. The direct effect was, however, to a large extent produced in 1945 when there was not time for such boats to become operational. Only if the war had lasted longer would the destruction of the U-boats in the assembly y