ly sent. He rejected Sir Arthur Harris' alarmist argu- ments about casualties and observed that the oil campaign had in the 1 Letter Harris to Portal, 28th Dec. 1944, with the marginal comments of Sir Charles Portal. S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-G  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 88 THE REWARD OF DISSENSION past three months been waged at a cost of about one per cent in miss- ing aircraft. Sir Charles Portal then turned to the question of the in- telligence upon which the oil plan rested. He pointed out that the Ministry of Economic Warfare was only one element among the many which were involved in the collection and presentation of this intelligence, and he told Sir Arthur Harris that the Combined Chiefs of Staff had, in fact, adopted the oil plan not on the advice of the Ministry of Economic Warfare but on that of the Joint Intelligence Committee which, in turn, was advised by specialised joint-intelli- gence bodies. Thus, Sir Charles Portal suggested, the facts did not support the Commander-in-Chief's assertion that the oil plan and also the ball-bearing plan were simply ' "panaceas enthusiastically put forward by the amateurish, ignorant, irresponsible and menda- cious M.E.W." ' He added that it was 'an unworthy and inexcusable travesty of our conduct of the war to suggest that our policy is deter- mined on that kind of basis.' Though Sir Charles Portal seems at first to have been inclined to accept Sir Arthur Harris' claim not to have lost any feasible oppor- tunity of prosecuting the ball-bearings plan he was, of course, soon reminded of the actual events by his staff.1 He, therefore, now re- minded Sir Arthur Harris that ball-bearings had been listed as prim- ary objectives in the directive of 10th June 1943 and that no specific attacks had been made on them by Bomber Command until 1944 and that even then little more than three thousand tons of bombs had been involved. 'I should have thought', Sir Charles Portal wrote, 'that at least you could have tried harder to destro