attack see the photograph facing p. 182. 3 For the results of these attacks see the photographs facing pp. 182 and 183. 189 been approached by any air force in the previous history of bombing. Moreover, in spite of their repetitive nature and the often low level from which the attacks were delivered, the casualties were compara- tively light. Finally, the results showed that, even if it was still supreme, 617 Squadron had now to acknowledge its rivals. The Dam Busters, after their contribution to the September attack, took no part in these canal operations.1 In addition to these operations against canals, which formed an important part of the transport system of Germany, Bomber Com- mand made many attacks in the last three months of 1944 which were specifically aimed at another aspect of the same target system, namely railway centres. These railway operations, in which, as was the case with the oil plan, the United States Strategic Air Forces played an important part, were partly designed to hamper German military movement in the battle area, but they also inevitably pro- duced far-reaching effects upon the whole of the German economy and especially upon the import and export of raw materials and finished products from and to the Ruhr industries. They were, therefore, again like the oil campaign, a fundamental part of the strategic air offensive. There is always a difficulty in making functional distinctions about the Bomber Command effort. Apart from the fact, which has been noticed before, that so-called strategic bombing often became con- fused with so-called tactical bombing especially at this stage of the war, there was also great difficulty in distinguishing between the efforts devoted to various different target systems. For example, in area attacks upon towns in the Ruhr, which were recorded under the heading of industrial areas, substantial damage was sometimes done to benzol plants which, of course, belonged to the oil plan. In addition much other importan