read so rapidly that central government ceases to exist'. The various means of carrying out a blow of 'catastrophic force' were then considered. The suggestion that widespread strafing attacks should be made by fighters on civilian objects was rejected on the grounds that it would produce 'uneasiness' but not a 'calamity'. A proposal for a form of air control under which a warning would be issued that on a given date all road and rail movement in Germany should cease and that any vehicles disregarding the warning would be attacked was judged to be impracticable on the grounds that the threat could not be adequately executed with the forces available. A third suggestion to the effect that a number of relatively small towns with populations of about twenty thousand should be obliterated, also found little favour. Such attacks, it was shown, would require visual aiming and would, therefore, depend for their success upon good weather, and the activity of the American bomber force in daylight. It was unlikely that more than thirty such towns could be destroyed in a month, and even if a hundred were eventually devastated only three per cent of the German population in relatively unimportant areas would be affected. A shattering blow against Berlin was, however, viewed in a quite different light. The operational advantage was that owing to the size of the target the attacks could be carried out at short notice and, if necessary, in bad weather with blind bombing devices. In all but the very worst weather a sustained series of attacks could therefore be guaranteed. The scale of attack envisaged amounted to no less than twenty thousand tons of bombs dropped in four days and three nights. Such a concentration, it was thought, would have a 'sufficiently cata- strophic effect to suspend all ordinary life in Berlin' where five per cent of the German population lived, where the centre of government was still located and where there were important industrial and transport complexe