scussed. The other methods of day attack developed by Bomber Command over occupied territory were firstly, visual bombing in which each crew had to sight and aim at the target individually either with or without the help of proximity markers. Secondly, there was an emer- gency method, known as Gee-Dead Reckoning, by which bombs were dropped either on a Gee fix or after a timed run from the last obtainable fix. Thirdly, there was the much more ambitious and complicated Oboe or G-H formation technique.1 This system was developed in July and August by relatively small formations of bombers led in each case by one equipped with Oboe or G-H. The technique was for the leader, or if he was in difficulties for the reserve leader, to drop his bombs blindly on the indication of Oboe or G-H, and for this action to be taken by the rest of the formation as a signal to drop their bombs. Thus, the accuracy of the attack depended firstly upon the accuracy of the leader's radar 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Report. S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-M  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 168 aim and secondly upon the station-keeping of the bombers in the formation. The great advantage was that, as far as the weather was concerned, all that was required was reasonable visibility between the aircraft in formation. It made no difference if the target was completely covered by cloud, as indeed it was during most of the attacks on flying bomb sites by the Oboe formation method in the course of July. The Oboe technique was developed by the Pathfinder Force and at first it was usual for an Oboe-equipped Mosquito to lead a formation of six Lancasters, and each attack was carried out by from one to three formations. Later the Pathfinder Force began to lead somewhat larger formations of between sixteen and eighteen aircraft each provided by 3 and 4 Groups, but in these cases not all the bombers could be close enough to the leader to hit a small target by releasing their bombs simultaneously with his. If they had done so, the resu