ltimate aim. The Air Staff, therefore, and for the best of reasons, no longer had a case for persisting with the oil policy which had to so great an extent absorbed their attention since June 1944. But even before this they had been increasingly compelled to give ground to Sir Arthur Tedder's advocacy of the communica- tions campaign. While the Air Staff were within their rights in resisting the in- fluence of the Deputy Supreme Commander in matters which touched the conduct of the strategic air offensive, they were bound by the arrangements made at the Quebec Conference to heed his suggestions about the air support of the land campaign, including those which embraced the operations of the strategic air forces. As has been seen, the arrival of allied troops on the Continent had created many diffi- culties of distinction between strategic and tactical or independent and auxiliary air operations, and the nearer the armies came to Ger- man territory the greater these difficulties became. They were, as has also been seen, especially acute when related to the particular ques- tion of communications bombing. By the end of 1944 communications in and out of the Ruhr, for example, were directly serving the Ger- man army in its defence of the Rhine frontier. They also continued to serve the industrial economy of Germany as a whole. Their destruc- tion would, therefore, be at once, on the one hand, a tactical and auxiliary and, on the other hand, a strategic and independent opera- tion. When, in March 1945, General Eisenhower's armies crossed the 1 The proportions of Bomber Command effort devoted to the oil campaign were: 11% (German cities 20%) 14% (German cities 58%) 26% (German cities 37%) July-September 1944 October-December 1944 January-May 1945 Bomber Command Quarterly Reviews, July-Sept. 1944, Oct .- Dec. 1944, and Bomber Command Review 1945. 2 J.I.C. Report, 3rd April 1945- III Rhine most of the remaining meaning, which these distinctions had, disappeared. For these re