gh the attack by the Eighth Air Force in May was defended on different grounds from those put forward by the com- mittees. Sir Arthur Harris joined in the attack in June. Even with the limited force used, the effect was immediate and greater than had been anticipated. For the first time in the war a vital target system had been chosen when the force and skill necessary to destroy it were available. For in May the total production of automotive fuels fell to eighty- five per cent of that of April and in June to fifty per cent. This amount was progressively reduced in August and September until in the latter month it was less than twenty-five per cent. Moreover, aviation petrol had suffered the heaviest loss, for the attack on the Bergius hydrogenation plants had attained the greatest success of all. From IIth to 18th September no aviation petrol was produced by them and the total production of that month was only 10,000 tons, to which the hydrogenation plants only contributed slightly more than a half.1 The Fischer-Tropsch plants had also been severely hit and though the refineries of crude oil had not suffered to the same extent, the supply of motor fuel was reduced by nearly two-thirds by the end of September, while the supply of diesel oil was barely half of that of the first quarter of 1944.2 This success was the result of a really combined offensive. All three strategic air forces had helped to produce it. The Fifteenth Air Force had reduced Rumanian production to less than half in June, though the Germans by taking complete control of reconstruction measures had raised this total considerably in July and August. In this last month the Rumanian fields were occupied by the Russians and this supply, which included the annual 10,000 to 15,000 tons of aviation spirit, entirely ceased. Then the Fifteenth Air Force was free to con- centrate on plants in the East and the oil refineries in Austria and Hungary. Meanwhile the Eighth Air Force, in addition to attacks in th