ided by 3 and 4 Groups, but in these cases not all the bombers could be close enough to the leader to hit a small target by releasing their bombs simultaneously with his. If they had done so, the resulting pattern of bombs on the ground would have been too large. A variation of the tactics was, therefore, introduced. The aircraft in immediate company with the leader still bombed simul- taneously with him. Aircraft more than a hundred yards behind the leader bombed when their crews saw the aircraft immediately in front drop their loads. Aircraft still further behind bombed when they drew level with a smoke puff fired by the leader at the time of his attack. This smoke puff was the only kind of marking involved in the operation.1 The G-H technique, which was fundamentally similar, was developed in 3 Group by 218 Squadron. G-H, it will be remembered, had been in limited service with Bomber Command for some time, but in February 1944, when a number of aircraft in 3 Group had been equipped with it, a conservation policy was adopted, training ceased and the equipment was withdrawn. On 30th March, however, it was decided to equip one flight of Stirlings in 218 Squadron with G-H and to proceed with training, though at that time the object was to use the device as an aid to target marking. In the meantime, 218 Squadron was not withdrawn from the line and it continued to carry out normal operations.2 But at the end of July, G-H aircraft were used for the first time as leaders in formation bombing. In the first attack, which took place on 27th July against Les Landes, much the same tactics as had been devised for the Oboe method were adopted, but the results were not successful and in further experi- ments against Fromental and Wemaers on 28th July and Mont Can- don on 2nd August, somewhat tighter formations were attempted. These operations showed that G-H was a remarkable device for 1 Bomber Cmd. O.R.B. July-Dec. 1944. 2 do. Jan .- June 1944 DAY ATTACK AND NEW NIGHT CONDITION