m from achieving it. The battleship had, in fact, sustained all but mortal damage, which the Germans estimated would have taken nine months to repair, even if she could be got back to a German port. This, however, they decided not to attempt, and when the Tirpitz crawled out of Alten fjord at six or seven knots and proceeded for indefinite reasons to Tromsö she was near the end of her tether, and, indeed, because Tromsö was just within range of Lossiemouth, near the end of her life. On 12th November 1944, after a number of false starts,2 thirty-one Lancasters of 9 and 617 Squadrons took off, as has already been recorded, with Tallboys. They had been specially fitted to make the long flight to Tromsö and back. This time there was no cloud over the ship. No smoke screen was put up, no enemy fighters appeared and the anti-aircraft fire from the battleship was inaccurate and largely ineffective. Of the thirteen 9 Squadron aircraft, two arrived too late to bomb and one, having been badly damaged, made a forced landing in Sweden. The other ten dropped their bombs, as also did all the eighteen Lancasters from 617 Squadron. Most crews thought the bombing had been accurate and some reported direct hits followed by explosions and much smoke. When they turned for home, the great ship had taken on a noticeable list. The attack was executed from between 12,850 and 16,000 feet.3 1 In addition to the sources cited the following have also been consulted: Report by 5 Group to Bomber Command, 15th Oct. 1944, Report by Group Captain C. C. McMullen, who commanded the expedition, to 5 Group, Ist Oct. 1944, with appendices entitled Accommodation, Diary, Medical Officer's Report, Engineer Officer's Report, Signals Report, Pilots' Reports on Crashes, Russian Co-operation, North Russian Air- fields, and Yagodnik Airfield. The Tirpitz Log, 5 Group News, Nov. 1944, Investigation into sinking of Tirpitz by British Bombing Research Mission. The excellent published account in No. 5 Bomber Group,