on as Deputy Supreme Commander, Sir Arthur Tedder was still empowered to demand and, in the name of General Eisenhower, to control, and strategic operations against industrial communications, which, by virtue of the Quebec arrangements, were not a concern of Sir Arthur Tedder. This kind of difficulty, as has already been suggested, arose from the approach of military forces towards the zones of strategic air operations, and it was by no means associated only with com- munications targets but, in their case, the obscurity tended to be greater than in other cases such as oil plants or city centres. This obscurity, to some extent, accounted for the influence which Sir Arthur Tedder was still able to exert over the direction of the stra- tegic air offensive in general and the communications campaign in particular. Sir Arthur Tedder's belief in the efficacy of a German communica- tions plan was not, however, the only challenge to the intention of the Air Staff to concentrate upon the oil campaign. There were other 1 C.C.S. Mtg., 12th Sept. 1944. 2 Letter Portal to Tedder, 22nd Oct. 1944.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 66 THE PROBLEM OF CONCENTRATION factors, some of which, like the communications plan, had been accepted and recognised in the September directive, and some of which had not. Among the former were the firm commitment to continue army support operations, especially in times of emergency, and the direction to attack the sources of tank production. Among the latter were various American schemes for hastening the end of the war by means other than the bombing of oil production and, above all, the continuing faith of Sir Arthur Harris, expressed at this par- ticular time, more in deeds than words, in the general area bombing offensive. This challenge from the Commander-in-Chief was reflected in the activities of Bomber Command during October 1944. During that month a colossal effort was put forth. About 17,500 operational sorties were despatched and more than 13,000 of