erlord. Nevertheless, the approach of Overlord undoubtedly was a factor in bringing about an awareness of the need for air superiority and, therefore, in giving rise to the plan of attack on the Luftwaffe. This was particularly so in the case of the British contribution, because the need for a reduction of German 1 Memo. by Harris, 13th Jan. 1944. I3 fighter strength, as also the means of attaining it, was somewhat less evident to those directing the Bomber Command night offensive than to those responsible for the Eighth Air Force day attacks. All the same, the fact remains that the need for air superiority actually arose as much, and more immediately, from the crippling losses of Ameri- can day bombers and also, before the year was out, of British night bombers, as from the consideration of the security of military and naval forces in the ultimate invasion. The encouragement of more precise bombing and the decline of Air Staff confidence in area bombing also may have owed something to the approach of Overlord. The Casablanca directive, among its several vague clauses, had contained the instruction to Sir Arthur Harris and General Eaker that when the Continent was invaded by the allied armies 'you will afford them all possible support in the man- ner most effective'. Among the many possible manners which might be regarded as the most effective it was possible to include the per- formance of specialised tasks, perhaps of a tactical nature, which might require a high degree of precision bombing. This was, how- ever, by no means the only, nor was it the operative, reason for which efforts were made to develop precision bombing techniques in Bomber Command. Indeed, the Dams raid of May 1943, which was so important in this process, was intimately and directly related to the Battle of the Ruhr. The connection of the Dams raid with the land battle in Normandy more than a year later was more obscure and arose only from the strategic association of Pointblank and Overlord. T