eather, and if the target was covered by more than a very moderate thickness of cloud, it could not be carried out.3 For that reason, the 5 Group visual technique at night was not so much comparable as complementary to Oboe and G-H formation bombing, but if the former suffered from the serious disadvantage of the weather con- sideration, the latter also had its limitations. Both G-H and Oboe, being dependent upon ground transmitters, had a limited range and, therefore, in any major plan of attack upon German targets, a limited value.4 Moreover, as will be realised, Oboe aircraft could only 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Report, 19th Sept. 1944. Increased experience was, however, producing better results. The average bombing error of the following aircraft in the Fromental operation was 1,200 yards. In the first wave of the Mont Candon attack it was three hundred yards. 2 O.R.S.(B.C.) Report. A table showing the bases of these conclusions which appears in this report is printed at App. 48. 3 Even very thin cloud, through which markers could be seen at night, was enough to obscure them in daylight. 4 The range of Oboe and G-H was increased by the altitude of the aircraft carrying the equipment, but in the case of formation bombing this altitude was restricted by the ceiling of the bombing aircraft flying in formation. Thus, at the Lancaster ceiling Oboe had a shorter range than at the Mosquito ceiling, but when leading a Lancaster forma- tion the Oboe Mosquito had to fly at the Lancaster altitude.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 170 be operated in limited numbers at the same time and there was, therefore, a strict limit to the scale on which Oboe formation bombing could be undertaken. This latter disadvantage did not, however, apply to G-H. Despite the fact that it was initially less accurate than Oboe formation or visual bombing by day and the 5 Group technique by night, the G-H formation technique was, therefore, in some respects a more important and at least a complementary develop- ment.