ties observed as in arriving at an agreed and clear definition of what they were and whether attack upon them was operationally feasible. Finally, it took no account of the undeniable fact that it was by arrangement with General Eisenhower and Sir Arthur Tedder re- spectively that General Spaatz and Sir Arthur Harris had, earlier in the year, embarked upon the oil offensive, which was now advanced as an important reason for curtailing their influence. On the other hand, there was a certain logic in the suggestion that, on the eve of the greatest strategic air offensive in the history of war, the direction of the bomber forces should be placed in the hands of the supreme British and American air officers. Whether there was also wisdom in it depended upon whether the Air Staffs would succeed in exercising the 'fine control of the strategic effort now demanded by the rapid progress of events' which Sir Charles Portal believed General Eisenhower could not 'possibly exercise'. The Chiefs of Staff, however, accepted Sir Charles Portal's argu- ment and the only change made to his report as a result of their dis- cussion was the introduction of a few words to safeguard the army support requirements of the Supreme Commander in the Mediter- ranean.1 With that modification incorporated, the proposal was circulated for the consideration of the Combined Chiefs of Staff. 2 1 C.O.S. Mtg. on board Queen Mary, 10th Sept. 1944. At this meeting Sir Charles Portal suggested that if the Americans declined to accept the arrangement it should, nevertheless, be brought into effect in so far as Bomber Command was concerned. 2 It was circulated on 12th September 1944 as a British C.O.S. memorandum for the Combined Chiefs of Staff. 61 General Arnold at once showed that he was unconvinced by its argu- ments. On being told by Sir Charles Portal, in answer to his question as to why the existing arrangement was considered to be unsatis- factory, that one of the reasons was the small size of Sir A