ottrop and Wanne-Eickel as well as to massive area attacks on Kiel, Hamburg and Stuttgart, the last of which was bombed three times. These ten operations involved the despatch of 3,419 sorties seventy-seven of which were by Mosquitoes of the Pathfinder force. 132 bombers, all of which were Lancasters and Halifaxes, failed to  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 174 return and this missing rate of 319 per cent of the despatched force was mainly attributable to night fighter action. It was a much lower casualty rate than had been suffered against German targets in June, or, for that matter, in the Battle of Berlin in the previous winter. There were signs that the German night fighter effort had been somewhat confused or obstructed by the Bomber Command tactics and by the use of the Mandrel screen as well as by that of a new kind of Window designed to swamp the latest version of German A.I. equipment. On the night of 25th July, for example, a force of 135 aircraft despatched to Wanne-Eickel suffered no losses at all. The German night fighters were concentrating upon the much larger force going to Stuttgart, but owing to somewhat poor visibility and Window interference, they failed to inflict serious losses upon it. From the 550 bombers despatched to Stuttgart, only. twelve failed to come back. Earlier, on the night of 18th July, Bomber Command attacked the oil plants at Wessling and Scholven-Buer with devastating effects and negligible losses. From the 194 bombers sent to Wesseling and the 170 sent to Scholven only five failed to return. The German fighters were almost wholly engaged in Belgium and eastern France and the bombers going to the oil plants emerged from behind the Mandrel screen to find the approach to the Ruhr virtually un- defended except by flak. To some extent, these were encouraging results, but there were still some extremely disagreeable aspects of the situation. While the effective and inexpensive operations against Wesseling and Scholven were taking place, anot