crews might be largely solved. The prob- lem was one of bringing the best crews into the lead and of enabling them to communicate their own standards to their less able com- rades. The solution, after much controversy and considerable delay, was found in the creation of the Pathfinder Force and in the intro- duction of marker bombs and, in due course, of the Very High Frequency Radio Telephone. The advantages of the Pathfinder Force method were numerous. The selected crews were concentrated in a separate force which even- tually achieved the status of a Group and were, therefore, able to develop their own tactics and techniques which often were not appro- priate to the requirements or the skills of the main force. Moreover, it was possible to give this relatively small force equipment such as H2S before it had been produced on a sufficient scale for main force use or a device like Oboe which could only be used by a few aircraft at one time. Thus, in theory at least, the greatest skill and the best equipment were united and concentrated in the Pathfinder Force and devoted to the primary purpose not of bombing the target but of finding it and indicating its position to the main force. The establishment of the Pathfinder Force and its proper equip- ment, which was a slow process, was, however, less than the whole 1 In this connection it is interesting to note that Air Vice-Marshal Bennett, in the course of a short operational career, was shot down and that Group Captain Cheshire, in the course of a very long one, was not. Air Vice-Marshal Bennett was, perhaps, the greatest flying expert in Bomber Command. Technically, Group Captain Cheshire was not by comparison an outstanding pilot.  CONCLUDING SURVEY 300 THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE of the solution to the problem of area bombing. Even if a greatly increased concentration of bombing could be achieved it was still necessary to make the attacks with the most efficient bombs and, above all, to make them heavy enough to pr