ND RESULTS d the tanks that existed from being used effectively der might not then have contributed very materially of the German armies. this period tanks had a position of first priority in the e of production. The enormous losses in the battles and reduced reserves so that tanks were sometimes sent direct actories to the fighting line. Thus, the reduction in the num- anks by direct attack in the last six months of 1944 made a Ibution to the weakening of the German defence, though, even then, the attack on communications had, perhaps, begun to exert a more important effect. 1 A second element in the demands of the armies was for an attack on the motor vehicle industry. This was one of the least successfully planned of all Speer's projects and too much reliance had been placed on production in France and other places outside Germany which was now lost. There was a shortage of vehicles of all kinds. The assembly plants were also very vulnerable to bombing, according to Speer, because they had been more intensively rationalised than other industries. At any rate the direct attacks in the summer and autumn of 1944 were highly successful. In the six months to Decem- ber 1944 there was a loss of 23,000 motor vehicles, about a third of the total production. Then there was a precipitate decline which was mainly due to the attack on communications. The lack of motor vehicles certainly reduced the mobility of the German divisions and especially of the Panzer divisions. But here again the lack of oil would in the later stages in any case have produced the same effect even if more motor vehicles had been available.2 The third element in the targets demanded by the armies was the ordnance depots. Concerning these, however, there are no statistics and the total loss cannot be even approximately calculated. Much trouble and labour were caused by the dispersal of stocks of arma- ments among a number of smaller buildings. But the conclusion of the investigation is that the greater