al air forces alone. In fact, they called for the virtual cessation of Pointblank so that they could be fulfilled by the strategic air forces. Thus, Over- lord came into conflict with Pointblank, and for a time almost ex- tinguished it. But Pointblank was never quite extinguished. Indeed, at the height of the Overlord diversion, when Bomber Command was primarily con- cerned with the disruption of the French railway system, the begin- ning of a strategic attack on German oil production occurred. The initiative was taken by the United States Strategic Air Forces, but it was soon followed by Bomber Command as well. Meanwhile, the lessons of the preparatory attacks on French railways had suggested that German communications might be a profitable object both of the strategic air offensive and of the tactical campaign in support of the armies. Sir Arthur Harris, however, was still quite unconvinced by the arguments adduced in support of these two selective policies. He retained an overriding confidence, though it was no longer fully shared by Sir Charles Portal and the Air Staff, in the efficacy of general area assault upon the largest German cities. Thus, when, in October 1944, the strategic air offensive was re- sumed with unprecedented violence, there were three competing policies before it, namely, the oil campaign in which Sir Charles  INTRODUCTION 6 INTRODUCTION Portal saw the prospect of decisive results, the communications offensive in which Sir Arthur Tedder saw the possibility of a common denominator between the requirements of the military situation and the aims of the strategic air offensive and, lastly, the general area offensive in which Sir Arthur Harris so firmly believed. Absolute concentration of effort could not be achieved if only because of weather considerations and on account of the fact that there were always some air defences to be reckoned with. Moreover, oil and communications were eventually seen to be not competing but complementary target sys