as it indisputably had been in 1942. The Air Staff viewed it with considerable doubt, and on 27th February 1944 Sir Charles Portal, who, as will be remem- bered, had for some time suspected that Sir Arthur Harris' opera- tional appreciations were coloured by his strategic views, addressed a minute to Sir Norman Bottomley which was to have results of the utmost importance. In this minute, Sir Charles Portal suggested that Bomber Com- mand should be given a special directive ordering some experimental attacks against precise targets in France on moonlight nights with the object of finding out the real operational capacity of Bomber Com- mand.1 This showed the extent to which confidence in Sir Arthur Harris' appreciations was wearing thin. The directive was issued on 4th March 1944. It pointed out that the targets had been chosen in order 'to obtain experience of the effects of night attack on airfields, communication centres and ammunition dumps before operation "Overlord" '. It thus ordained that there should be a trial by battle of the operational objections which Sir Arthur Harris had raised against the policy suggested for Bomber Command by Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory. Among the targets mentioned were six French rail- way marshalling yards. These were at Trappes, Aulnoye, Le Mans, Amiens/Lougeau, Courtrai and Laon.2 These marshalling yards should be regarded as famous in the his- tory of Bomber Command. The attack on Trappes was carried out on the night of 6th March 1944, and by the end of the month all the marshalling yards had been bombed.3 The results, though not uni- formly successful, were outstanding. They showed that against this 1 Min. Portal to Bottomley, 27th Feb. 1944. 2 Dir. Coryton (A.C.A.S.(Ops.)) to Harris, 4th March 1944, App. 8 (xxxvii). 3 Le Mans and Amiens were attacked twice, and, in addition, the marshalling yards at Vaires were bombed.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 28 BASES OF VICTORY AND DISSENSION kind of target and in these localities Bomber Com