erations and on account of the fact that there were always some air defences to be reckoned with. Moreover, oil and communications were eventually seen to be not competing but complementary target systems. The issue between them and the general area offensive, however, was more important and it proved to be irreconcilable. It led to a substantial division of bombing effort which was greatly in excess of that made inevitable by tactical con- siderations and the necessity of meeting so many military require- ments and other diversionary claims. It is necessary to survey in some detail the disputes engendered by this situation, in which the aims of the principal protagonists, Sir Charles Portal, Sir Arthur Harris and Sir Arthur Tedder, were to a considerable extent frustrated. Nor was this tragic deadlock the only respect in which the final offensive was controversial. The conduct of the area offensive rein- forced the doubts which some people had long since felt about the strategic air offensive on moral grounds. In particular, the attacks made in February 1945 by Bomber Command and the United States Eighth Air Force on Dresden resulted in condemnations which have persisted and even increased over the years which have elapsed since the event. This particular operation, which was undertaken for com- plicated reasons not wholly connected with the general area cam- paign, even led to some severe words, though not on moral grounds, from the Prime Minister, though it was he himself who contributed much of the incentive to carry it out. Despite these fundamental cleavages of strategic opinion, and in spite of all the moral and also, on many occasions, mistaken, criti- cisms of the offensive, the actual operations, which are examined in the second of the following chapters, were an undoubted triumph. It was not simply that an unprecedentedly large number of bombers were available. It was due also to a complete change in the opera- tional conditions of the offensive. The fact