ering letter Bottomley to Harris, 5th May 1945. App. 8 (xlv(b)) and (a). C.O.S. to J.S.M. (Washington), 19th April 1945, J.S.M. (Washington) to C.O.S., 3rd May 1945, C.O.S. to J.S.M. (Washington), 4th May 1945. This, however, was a matter of little importance and, in any case, 119 on 16th April Sir Charles Portal adopted another means of signifying the same intention. In a message, which he suggested Sir Arthur Harris might promulgate as an order of the day to Bomber Com- mand, he stated that: 'The tasks given to the British and American strategic air forces in Europe were to disorganise and destroy the German military, industrial and economic systems and to afford direct support to our forces on land and sea. In the first of these tasks we are now at the point of having achieved our object: the progress of the allied armies across Germany brings to light every day how fatally the German war machine has been weakened by the devastating blows of the strategic air forces against industrial and military targets. Bomber Command were the pioneers of the strategic bomber offensive and all formations and units are deserving of the highest praise for the part they have taken with our American allies in bringing it to a successful conclusion. Henceforth the main tasks of the strategic air forces will be to afford direct support to the allied armies in the land battle and to continue their offensive against the sea power of the enemy which they have already done so much to destroy. I am confident that Bomber Command will maintain in these final phases of the war in the air over Europe the high standard of skill and devotion that has marked their work since the earliest days of the war.' 1 In these words the ending of the strategic air offensive against Germany was signalised. 1 Order of the Day Portal to Harris, 16th April 1945. S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-I  CHAPTER XIII THE CULMINATION OF THE OFFENSIVE: NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS Bombing techniques, 1944-45 I. New operational fact