8 THE OPERATIONAL CLIMAX nearly a fifth of the aggregate for the whole war. In operations of all kinds during the same period Bomber Command despatched some 67,483 sorties from which only 608 aircraft failed to return. The pattern of this great offensive in terms of the distribution of bomb tonnages was similar to that established in the last quarter of 1944 except that a proportionally greater effort was made against oil targets and a smaller one against industrial cities. The latter, how- ever, still formed the principal target system of Bomber Command and absorbed about thirty-six per cent of the total bomb tonnage. 1 In this part of the offensive there were thirty-six major operations against thirty different towns, all of which were carried out in January, February and March.2 The smallest of these attacks was that made against Gelsenkirchen on the night of 22nd January when 152 bombers were despatched. The largest was the daylight attack on 12th March when 1,107 aircraft, carrying about five thousand tons of bombs, were despatched to Dortmund, but undoubtedly the most destructive was the operation carried out in two waves against Dresden on the night of 13th February, when some 805 bombers were despatched. In all these major area attacks 15,588 sorties were despatched, 240 bombers failed to return and over 57,000 tons of bombs were dropped. The ratio of high explosives to incendiaries was about 3 : 2. Twenty-four of the operations were at night and twelve in daylight. The losses were more or less consistently low by day and by night except on one occasion which, by a curious coinci- dence, was that of the attack on Nuremberg on the night of 16th March. A force of 293 bombers consisting of 231 Lancasters from I Group and forty-six Lancasters and sixteen Mosquitoes from the Pathfinder Force, was despatched. Twenty-four aircraft, all of them I Group Lancasters, did not return largely as a result of a temporary 1 Bomber Command Review 1945, which gives the distrib