eous result was sometimes not achieved. A different kind of decision was involved when the danger of revealing a new device such as the magnetron valve or Window had to be considered. All such defensive considera- tions, whether justified or not, were disadvantageous to Bomber Command, and in some cases it can hardly be maintained that adequate justification existed. In the case of the delay of Window an existing and severe threat to Bomber Command was prolonged to avoid a hypothetical and almost negligible one to the civil popula- tion and some other speculative possibilities. Even so the record of scientific contribution to the problems of Bomber Command from 1941 to 1945 was a notable one which had decisive consequences. The efficiency of the force was increased many times over. Its versatility was vastly expanded and its casual- 309 ties, heavy as they were, were considerably diminished. In fact these sustained and brilliant endeavours enabled the force to achieve more than its original aims upon which, with moderate aircraft, such as the Wellington and Whitley, inadequate ones, such as the Hampden and Blenheim, and the totally inadequate Battle it had embarked with scarcely any of the necessary equipment in 1939. This enormous improvement in the aircraft and its devices was matched by a not less necessary, and in some cases hardly less remarkable improve- ment in its bombs, flares and target markers. But in the means of active defence, the same progress was not made. The Mosquito needed no armament, but the Lancaster did. Yet like the Wellingtons and Whitleys of 1939, the Lancasters carried nothing better than ·303 machine guns which were little more than a mild deterrent to the much more powerfully armed German fighters. Some conclusions emerge with comparative clarity. The initial handicaps of Bomber Command as regards both its efficiency and its size were very severe and had prolonged effects. They were due to a combination of dilatoriness, financial stringe