Sir Arthur Tedder, who initiated the attack, and his advisers in S.H.A.E.F., especially Professor Zuckerman, who had advised him on this subject during the successful attacks on communications in Sicily, Italy and France. Sir Arthur Tedder also had the advice of the intelligence departments of S.H.A.E.F., G.2 and S.H.A.E.F. (Air). Though these to some extent shared his outlook, they were also much influenced by the wishes of the army and air commanders. The meetings of these commanders in France, though naturally Sir Arthur Tedder played an important part in them, had an influence on the targets chosen, all the more so since General Spaatz and Sir Arthur Harris were often present. This influence was due to the fact that an attack on communica- tions served a tactical as well as a strategic end, and the tactical air forces took part in it as well as the strategic air forces. In every plan that was made both these ends had to be taken into account. Sir Arthur Tedder was no doubt right when he insisted that this was the only target system on which all the different air forces, both strategic and tactical, could concentrate. But that very fact caused such a diverse number of targets to be selected that concentration for strategic purposes was not obtained until four months had elapsed. This diversification of targets would not, however, have been so extensive if General Eisenhower had not thought it necessary to attack on a broad front, one, indeed, extending from the mouth of the Scheldt to the Swiss frontier. The selection of the targets was also influenced to some extent by the desire that a plan should be made to finish the war by the end of 1944, which, as has been seen, was first expressed by General Marshall towards the end of October. The excessive optimism of early September had by now diminished, but it was still thought in some quarters that the German front in the West could be crumpled up by a special effort of the allied forces. This optimism was, how- 245