separated areas and there was never any massive concentration at one place at one time. Owing to its restricted size, it was, therefore, never possible for the German night fighter force to engage virtually the whole of Bomber Command as it had done, for example, on the Nuremberg operation at the end of March. Even so the night fighters exploited their limited and fleet- ing opportunities with effects which were disquieting for Bomber Command. Thus, on the night of 3rd May 1944, Bomber Command attacked Mailly-Le-Camp, Montdidier, Chateaudun and Ludwigshafen. It also carried out minelaying near the Frisian Islands and off the French Atlantic ports. In addition, Wellingtons and Whitleys from Operational Training Units dropped leaflets over northern France. In the Mailly-Le-Camp operation 362 bombers were despatched and forty-two, or 11-3 per cent of them, failed to return. Despite the shal- low penetration involved, the great majority of these missing aircraft undoubtedly fell to night fighters. On the night of 10th May opera- tions were even more dispersed and they included attacks on Lens, Lille, Ghent, Dieppe, Courtrai and Ludwigshafen. One bomber failed to return from minelaying operations, but apart from this there were no losses except from the force sent to Lille. This amounted to eighty-nine bombers from which twelve, or 13.5 per cent, failed to return, again principally as a result of night fighter action.2 These were severe examples of the generally prevailing conditions, and when it was seen that crews who had returned from Nuremberg had been shot down on sorties to Mailly-Le-Camp and Lille, the term 'easy target' tended to drop out of the Bomber Command vocabu- lary.3 The overall loss rate was low, not because the German fighters 1 These attacks were on Duisburg (21/22 May: 532 bombers despatched), Brunswick and Dortmund (22/23 May: 235 and 375 bombers despatched), Aachen (24/25 May and 27/28 May: 432 and 170 bombers despatched). O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Repo