ter. Obviously then the existence of the Tirpitz was something which the British could not afford to ignore and it was something which the Prime Minister found it hard to tolerate. The problem was to find a means of destroying or at least of immobilising the Tirpitz while she lay at one of her Norwegian moorings. It was, Mr. Churchill said at the beginning of 1943, 'a terrible thing that this prize should be waiting, and no one able to think of a way of winning it.' 3 Such was the prize which Bomber Command did win on 12th November 1944, but it was not for lack of trying nor for the lack of outstanding gallantry that it was not won earlier either by the Royal Air Force or the Royal Navy. On one of her rare voyages in March 1942, the Tirpitz had been inconclusively attacked by carrier-borne aircraft of the Fleet Air Arm. In July she had been intercepted and attacked by a Russian submarine but, as will be recalled, the plan to strike at her with a smaller version of the Wallis dams bomb had come to nothing. Reporting in March 1943, when the Tirpitz was lying in Trondheim fjord, Sir Arthur Harris was far from optimistic about what Bomber Command could do to her. The difficulty of reaching Trondheim at all was considerable and would probably mean taking off from Scotland and landing in Russia. Moreover, even if the ship could be reached, there would be a formidable sighting problem because the Norwegian fjords were often covered with dense cloud and, in any case, the Tirpitz could be rapidly and completely enveloped in a smoke screen.4 There was also the question of whether any kind of bomb then available would do much damage to such a formidable target and the Air Staff showed little enthusiasm for a Bomber Command attack until some special weapon had been perfected and introduced.5 1 R.A.F. Story of attacks on Tirpitz. 2 Report by J.P.S., 23rd Aug. 1944. 3 Min. Churchill to Portal and others, 16th Feb. 1943. 4 Letter and enclosure Harris to Brockman (Secretary to Firs