00 B.B.S.U. The Effects of Air Attack on Inland Communications, p. 182. 8,000 7,700 8,200 For the effect on transport by water, see App. 49 (xliv). 2 See App. 36, and below, p. 257.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 252 THE ATTACK ON COMMUNICATIONS crisis. He informed Keitel also and asked him to provide greater anti-aircraft defence of vital points in the canals and important rail- way centres, since the Luftwaffe seemed unable to protect them.1 He obtained Bormann's co-operation to rouse the Party to assist in the work of reconstruction. In a speech to the Central Planning Organ- isation on 8th November he used the phrase often since quoted: 'It is transport that governs all of us'. This was because production depended on the ability to transport the coal to the factories. The Ruhr was thus the key to the continuation of the manufacture of armaments. 'The battle of the Ruhr is a battle for the existence of the Reich, and the battle of the Ruhr has got to be won'.2 The Ruhr itself was being devastated by the area attack as is shown in the next section. Speer himself took energetic action. 4,500 specialists, mainly electricians, were brought into the area to assist the repair of telecommunications and other indispensable installa- tions. To facilitate transport inside the Ruhr he made a special allot- ment of 5,000 tons of oil fuel as well as 300 anthracite coke genera- tors so that tractors could be used for short hauls of coal to keep the gas and electricity works and essential industries in production. For production had almost ceased in some parts of the area and this could not be borne. 'It is clear,' he told Hitler, 'from Germany's overall economic structure that in the long run the loss of the indus- trial area of the Rhineland-Westphalia would be a mortal blow to German economy and to the conduct of the war.' 3 There were, however, some consolations. As in the case of the oil offensive, Speer placed some hope on the autumn weather and the enemy's lack of perseveran