concentrated. By the time the second wave reached Leuna the sky had completely clouded over and no ground marking was possible. H2S checks suggested, how- ever, that the sky marking was well clustered over the aiming point and since at 16,000 feet there was a wind of only about twenty miles an hour it is possible that the bombing was more than usually accurate. At any rate, reconnaissance photographs showed that the plant had been heavily and extensively damaged in these two attacks. In fact, there was scarcely an important installation which had not been hit. In this double operation, from which eight Lancasters did not return, over two thousand tons of bombs, including 491 four- thousand pounders, were dropped.1 The last example is provided by the attack on the night of 22nd January against the benzol plant at Brückhausen. Two hundred and eighty-six Lancasters and sixteen Mosquitoes of I and 3 Groups and the Pathfinder Force were despatched. Once again the plan was to have either ground or sky marking according to the weather, but fortunately the latter was not, on this occasion, necessary, and after passing some cloud on the way, the crews found none at the target. The visibility was excellent and by the moonlight the bomb aimers could see not only the Oboe ground marking but the benzol plant itself. This was lucky because the concentration of bombing, for a time, completely obliterated the marking. Photographic reconnais- sance showed that the plant had been heavily damaged. There had, however, been some inaccurate aiming or mistaken identification and a considerable weight of attack fell on the August Thyssen steel works which lay to the north of the target. From this operation, in which more than 1,200 tons of bombs, including 259 four-thousand pounders, were dropped, two Lancasters failed to return.2 Meanwhile, Bomber Command was receiving the last and the greatest of its war-time weapons. On 21st February 1945 it was decided to expand 617 Squadron from two t