ed by another 125 Lancasters of 5 Group carrying smaller bombs and by five Mosquitoes to do the marking. The object was to breach the banks of the canal, which at this point was raised above the level of the surrounding country, and to drain it.1 In order to achieve the penetration, upon which their earthquake action depended, Tallboys had to be dropped from at least and pre- ferably more than eight thousand feet. The conditions of the attack 1 W. J. Lawrence: No. 5 Bomber Group R.A.F., pp. 191-198, and O.R.B. (617 Sqdn.). The Tallboy is generally described as a 12,000-lb. bomb, but in the 617 Squadron O.R.B. for 8th June 1944, which is presumably the source referred to by Mr. Lawrence on pp. 191-192, it is entered as a 14,000-lb. bomb. Actually the Tallboy was a scaled-down version of the much bigger bomb weighing 22,000 lb. which eventually came into service in very small numbers as the Grand Slam.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 182 were, therefore, made very difficult by the fact that the target was covered by seven-tenths strato-cumulus cloud at eight to nine thousand feet. Some crews aimed their Tallboys at the glow of the markers which could be seen through the cloud and others came down below the cloud level and bombed from about eight thousand feet. Wing Commander Tait's bomb aimer released his Tallboy from seven thousand five hundred feet. The result of the attack, nevertheless, was a complete success. Both the east and the west branches of the canal at the Glane by-pass were breached. A section of the canal amounting to six and a half miles in length was drained and day- light photographs showed that twenty-one barges were stranded in it.1 A further twelve stranded barges were photographed in a stretch of two thousand yards of the canal to the north of the by-pass. Out- standing as this achievement was, it cannot really be compared to the feats which had more than a year earlier resulted in the breaching of the Möhne and Eder dams. There was, however, one notable