ing the serious nature of the emergency. As has been noted, even in January he took this attitude.2 But after the loss of Upper Silesia at the end of that month he told the Fuehrer that the situation had become hopeless. Steel production, for example, would fall to half a million tons a month while ammunition alone needed 400,000 tons a month. 'The rest of the armaments, therefore,' he wrote, 'will practically cease within a measurable space of time.' Henceforward his object was to prepare for the grim future after the war rather than engage in the hopeless task of armament production.3 Some attempt has been made to ascertain more precisely what proportion of the fall in production was due to the attack on com- munications rather than to the other causes operating at the same time. A study made by a United States team, based on question- naires and statistics of a number of firms, reached the conclusion that rather more than fifty per cent in December was due to transport difficulties and more than fifty-five per cent in January. But the assumptions and statistics on which this conclusion is based are of doubtful value. This was pointed out by Dr. Kehrl, head of the 1 Bormann, for example, on 21st February 1945, after waiting all day for post from Munich, was informed at 6 p.m. that they not only did not know at Berlin what time the train would arrive, but not even where it was. Finally he learnt that it could not arrive at all and urgent post was being sent by car. The Bormann Letters (1954), edited by H. R. Trevor-Roper, pp. 190-191. See above, p. 219 fn. 2. 3 Draft Report by Speer, 29th Jan. 1945, Speer Docs. (Hamburg Series). It was only circulated to one or two high officers of O.K.W.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 260 THE ATTACK ON COMMUNICATIONS Planungsamt, who was in a position to survey the general trend of production so far as it could be done at all. Nevertheless, after making this point, he essayed with some other officials to form his own estimate, which i