sen. These operations were, however, on an altogether smaller scale than those against the Ruhr towns. The largest individual attack was against Stuttgart on the night of 19th October when a force of 583 aircraft was despatched and nearly 2,500 tons of bombs were dropped. On this occasion the incendiaries accounted for rather more than a third of the total weight of bombs, but in many of the other attacks on less severely damaged targets much higher pro- portions were represented by incendiaries. In the attack on Ulm, for example, on the night of 17th December, 704 tons of incendiaries and 590 tons of high explosives were dropped.2 In these area attacks a great variety of techniques was used by Bomber Command. For example, on the night of 14th October 1944, 1,005 Lancasters, Halifaxes and Mosquitoes from 1, 3, 4 and 6 Groups and the Pathfinder Force were despatched to Duisburg. The force was divided into two waves and between each attack there was an interval of about two hours. In both cases the aiming point was indicated by controlled Oboe ground marking. While this was going on another force of 233 Lancasters and seven Mosquitoes from 5 Group was despatched to Brunswick where the aiming point was indicated by the 5 Group visual marking technique. Only a few hours earlier a force of over a thousand Lancasters, Halifaxes and 1 Bomber Offensive, p. 238. 2 Bomber Command Quarterly Review, Oct .- Dec. 1944.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 186 THE OPERATIONAL CLIMAX Mosquitoes had been despatched in daylight to Duisburg. Four days later, as has been mentioned, 3 Group carried out its daylight forma- tion G-H attack on Bonn. These examples are characteristic of the area bombing offensive at this time. The casualties sustained on them were also characteristic. From the attacks on the night of 14th October against Duisburg and Brunswick, which involved the despatch of 1,245 sorties, seven bombers failed to return. From the daylight attack on Duisburg, involving the despatch of 1,