led members of the bomber crew who needed the longest training, would also have been enormously inflated. Such questions, however, are largely hypothetical. But it may reasonably be asserted that Bomber Command would have been ultimately stronger if the Manchester had never been produced and if the production of Stirlings and Halifaxes could have been ex- changed for that of Lancasters as Sir Arthur Harris so often asked and for so long without response. The front-line aircraft of Bomber Command were eventually equipped with a variety of remarkable devices ranging from highly complicated radar aids which made precise navigation and much improved bombing possible to the very simple metallised strips of paper known as Window which confused the German defences. But, in spite of the wonderful scientific inventions which were responsible for these devices and the operational research which had revealed the need for them, all this equipment had inevitable defects which were sometimes more apparent to those who used them on opera- tions than to those who did not. It is, for example, an exaggeration to say that H2S enabled a bomber crew to see through cloud. It is also true that H2S enabled German fighters to home on bombers which were using it. Similarly, it is not true to claim that the Air Position Indicator enabled the navigator to abandon with safety the laborious and meticulous business of keeping an air plot. Nor were these devices always as good as they might have been and sometimes their introduction was delayed beyond the necessary period required for production. The decision as to the moment at which a new device should be put into production and further modifications abandoned was, indeed, an extremely complicated one, and it is not surprising that the most advantageous result was sometimes not achieved. A different kind of decision was involved when the danger of revealing a new device such as the magnetron valve or Window had to be considered. All such defensi