Master Bomber visually assesses Oboe markers and re-marks visually. H2S GROUND MARKING (H2S Paramatta) Similar to Oboe ground marking but, because H2S is less accurate, more initial markers are put down and backers up aim at mean point of impact. Main force aim at this backing up and not at the H2S marking. H2S SKY MARKING (H2S Wanganui) Similar to Oboe sky marking. H2S NEWHAVEN A form of 8 Group visual. Starts in same way as H2S Paramatta but flares are also dropped. Pathfinder Force visual markers then mark aiming point visually. MUSICAL NEWHAVEN Same as H2S Newhaven but with initial proximity marking by Oboe. 5 GROUP VISUAL Flares and proximity marking followed by visual dive marking with the offset modification. OBOE FORMATION (Daylight) Aircraft fly in formation. Leading aircraft bombs on Oboe indication and remaining aircraft bomb on signal from leader. The only visibility require- ment is for the pilots to be able to see each other's aircraft. G-H FORMATION (Daylight) Similar to Oboe formation but with G-H. 122 I. New operational factors in the strategic air offensive 1944-1945 N the final period of the war between the end of the Battle of Berlin and the capitulation of Germany rather more than a year Llater, Bomber Command was confronted with a series of new opera- tional factors which revolutionised the conditions and also the tech- niques of the strategic air offensive. In the spring of 1944 the German night fighter force, having apparently outwitted all the measures of deception and evasion which could be devised, seemed to be on the brink of winning a major victory against Bomber Command. But at the same time the German day fighter force was being outfought by the American co-ordinated long-range fighter and heavy bomber offensive in daylight. Day bombing, indeed, showed signs of becom- ing safer than night bombing, for no method could be found of en- gaging the German night fighters in the way that the day fighters were being engaged and overwhelmed. Ne