ategic air offensive had been changed by the in- creased size and efficiency of Bomber Command, by the growth of allied air superiority and by the allied reoccupation of France. But though the versatility of the force was so clearly demonstrated, the effectiveness of the September directive was not. About two-thirds of 1 Min. Portal to Churchill, 27th Nov. 1944. 67 the Bomber Command effort in October was devoted to a resumption of the general area offensive against German towns. There was no great concentration upon either oil or communications. Indeed, only about six per cent of the Command's tonnage for the month was de- voted to oil targets and a smaller weight of attack was brought to bear upon them than had been delivered in the previous June, when oil had not figured in the directive and there had been an almost overwhelm- ing diversion of the bombing effort in connection with the invasion of Normandy.1 It was obvious that the September directive was not being carried out in the manner expected by Sir Charles Portal. But, of course, the weather conditions of the autumn were not the same as those of the summer. Even so, as he presently revealed, ad- verse weather was by no means the only reason for which Sir Arthur Harris was reluctant to devote a greater part of his attack to oil tar- gets. The directive was, perhaps, less clear than it might have been, but it was more incisive than most of its predecessors and scarcely left scope to doubt that oil was the principal objective and that city areas were an alternative to suit the exigencies of the weather. Army sup- port was the cause of some diversion of effort, but from the total weight of bombs of over sixty-one thousand tons dropped by Bomber Command in October, less than seven thousand five hundred tons were, in fact, devoted to this particular purpose. Clearly the attitude of Sir Arthur Harris was a factor in this divergence between the pat- tern of Bomber Command operations during October and the terms of