ation whose requirements, whether on land, at sea or in the air, dominated all other considerations. It was this which made the view- point of General Eisenhower the most influential in the military councils of the alliance, but it was not this which resolved the issues between Pointblank and Overlord. These operations had not been designed as competing versions of strategy whose future could be determined simply by the dominance of one or the other. Pointblank had been conceived, not to compete with Overlord, but to make it possible. Its aim, as had been shown in the Casablanca directive, was not to defeat Germany, but to create the opportunity for the military invasion to do so. Pointblank was not merely an independent prelude to Overlord. It was really part of the great undertaking itself. The possibility had, of course, always existed that the combined 1 Min. Portal to Slessor, 13th Dec. 1942, cited above, Vol. I, p. 377  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 12 BASES OF VICTORY AND DISSENSION bomber forces might carry out their tasks so effectively and achieve their objects so thoroughly that Germany would be rendered not only incapable of resisting a military invasion effectively but incapable of resisting it at all. Such a prospect had been much in Sir Arthur Harris' mind, it had occurred to General Spaatz and it had been taken into account by the Combined Chiefs of Staff in a plan known as Rankin, which provided for the rapid occupation of the Continent in the event of a German collapse under the impact of Pointblank and the Russian victories. Nevertheless, the realisation of these possibilities had been rendered somewhat slight by the massive preparations for a fighting invasion, owing, as has already been suggested, to the effect which these had upon the allied strategy of production and alloca- tion. Moreover, the execution of those preparations, in the shape of the plan for Overlord, had rendered the materialisation of the Rankin situation unnecessary, while the condi