ht bomber. In fact, it marked the virtual collapse of the German night fighter force and the coming of night air superiority for Bomber Command. For years the German night fighters had operated in alternately favourable and unfavourable conditions. Now at last they were scarcely able to oper- ate at all. In August 1944, the allied armies advanced across the areas of the German forward fighter bases and radar early warning in- stallations in France and Belgium and behind them came the Bom- ber Command ground radar stations and emergency landing fields. Bomber Command could now approach Germany under a cloak of secrecy which extended almost to the Rhine, and the German fighters were driven back to the tactics of interception at the target. Even there they were inevitably and generally too late. At the same time the Luftwaffe was caught in the crippling consequences of an oil famine. From these fundamental disabilities the German night fighter force could never recover and for the first time since the very carly nights of the war it ceased to be an important factor in the night bombing offensive. it amounted to 1·1 per cent. A comparison between day and night sorties is provided by the following figures for attacks on Ruhr targets in September: Sorties Losses Flak Damage 22 (2.5%) 538 (36.7%) Night Day . 1,464 872 II (1.3%) 19 (1.3%) O.R.S.(B.C.) Reports. 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Reports.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 140 In these ways, as a result both of its own achievements and of those of other forces, Bomber Command was, in the autumn of 1944, afforded an unprecedented opportunity for bringing its great des- tructive power to bear against the heart of Germany by precision and area bombing in daylight and in darkness. Owing to the difficulties connected with the solution of the problems of bombing policy, which have already been considered, this opportunity was neither fully nor immediately exploited, but it certainly was not lost. By far the greater part of the damage done to the