approximately calculated. Much trouble and labour were caused by the dispersal of stocks of arma- ments among a number of smaller buildings. But the conclusion of the investigation is that the greater part of such loss as was caused was due to the failure of communications, especially as this often pre- vented the removal of stocks in dumps near the front when retreats had to be made. This effect was, however, produced more by the tactical than the strategic air forces. But the chaos in communica- tions in the closing months did often make it impossible to deliver weapons and supplies of all kinds into the hands of the troops. Thus, 1 For the diversion of weapon production and the electro-technical industry to anti- aircraft defence in this period, see above, Vol. II, p. 296, fn. 3, and App. 37 (ii). 2 U.S.S.B.S. German Motor Vehicles Industry Report (No. 77), p. 21. Parts of these plants were producing aircraft engines and components of VI weapons and other components and some of the attacks were aimed at these weapons rather than at motor vehicle production. It should be noted also that the investigations hardly substantiated Speer's view of the industry, for the machine tools generally were not seriously injured. ries 269 though the allied army commanders refused to believe it, the enemy supply of weapons was reduced to a far greater degree by the attack on communications than by direct attacks on the factories producing them or the places in which they were stored.1 The attack on the aircraft and aero-engine industry which had been so successful in the early months of 1944 was pursued in the earlier part of this period and for a long time persistent attempts were made to complete the destruction of the ball-bearings industry as has already been related in Chapter XI. A number of attacks were also made on the aero-engine industry in the summer. Then the attack was suspended until the United States air forces, and particularly General Spaatz himself, were stimulat