end of the period and they were using the inferior brown coal from the mines 1 U.S.S.B.S. The Effects of Strategic Bombing on German Transportation (No. 200), p. 79. 2 See the tables, App. 49 (xliv) and (xlvi). 257 in Czechoslovakia.1 The effect on production was also shown by an examination of the iron and steel industry. It was thus demonstrated that the precipitate fall in production was due to the loss of suitable coking coal and not to a deficiency in the supply of ore, of which ample stocks existed. This fact was further proved by statistics which showed that in the plants of a steel organisation in central Germany the decline in production was greatest in those farthest from any supply of coal.2 It is to be noted, however, that the decline in pro- duction of steel in the Ruhr itself, which was even greater, was ob- viously not due to this cause. It was caused by the disruption of its interior communications and direct attacks on its towns which were only to a small extent the result of the attack on communications. To these illustrations many more could be added from other sources. A highly secret report of the German Railway Administra- tion has been found, for example, which discloses that 2,000 trains were blocked in transit in the months of January and February, that the supply of wagons was rapidly decreasing and that, in the opinion of its authors, industry was already short of 200,000 tons of coal a day.3 The truth of this last statement is confirmed in many of the reports on particular industries or firms, though the position naturally varied considerably from area to area and the availability of stocks in the various plants examined. In nearly all the interroga- tions of Speer and his colleagues the fact that the decline in produc- tion was in this period mainly due to this cause is explicitly stated, though in some cases the answers may have been elicited by the method employed in questioning them. At the same time there were many other causes for t