produced in the three plants of Pölitz, Leuna and Brüx.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 234 THE ATTACK ON OIL During October and November Bomber Command made no attacks on oil outside the Ruhr-Rhineland area. Here it did as much as could be expected and only a little oil came from the large plants there. But this valuable contribution only absorbed a small part of the resources of Bomber Command. It was strongly urged, therefore, that Bomber Command should also attack the central European plants, where the bulk of the synthetic oil was now being produced. The reasons why this was not done sooner have been discussed in Chapter XII. As has been seen, the result was a substantial rise in the production of oil and especially in that of aviation spirit. This situation was, however, changed during December and the first part of January, when, in spite of the distraction of the Ardennes offensive, the production of the central and eastern plants was much reduced. Bomber Command made an attack on Leuna on the night of 6th December following a day attack by the Eighth Air Force. It seems likely, however, that it was the night attack that caused the greater damage and practically stopped production. At the end of the month Bomber Command attacked Pölitz. In January further heavy attacks were made on Leuna and Pölitz, while Zeitz and Brüx were also bombed. Meanwhile the Eighth Air Force had been able to do little in this area, but the Fifteenth Air Force in December in a most successful series of attacks not only stopped production completely at Brüx, but also to a very large extent in the Silesian plants, a month or more before their capture by the Russian Army. The total result of these attacks, together with the bombing of those in the West, and the benzol plants there, was to cause a great reduc- tion in the supply of aviation spirit. In December it was down to 26,000 tons, in January it fell to 11,000 tons and in February it was no more than a trickle. If motor petrol and dies