location . · Würzburg BERGESHOVEDE Lohne Münster BIELEFELDHan ALTENBEKEN and NEUENBEKEN Viaducts CANAL Wesel O-DATTELN Hamm Paderborn Soest Hildesheim Elbe Breslau 6 Hatle DORTMUND Duisburgo - Leipzig Schwerte The Ruhr 4! Kassel 7 Erfurt Oppeln -. Cologne Mülheim Bridge Bebra ·Chemnitz Gera -LOAachen Siegen 3 Giessen Heydebreck Koblenz Oberlahnstein Frankfurt/ YHanau Aschaffenburg Mosel Bingen Mainz (Bingerbrück) Darmstadt &Würzburg o Luxembourg 2 Main Nuremberg Ludwigshafeno & Mannheim · Saarbrücken Heilbronn Vitava Labe PRAGUE Morava Karlsruhe Treuchtlingen Danube Rastatt Isar Stuttgart Danube Strasshof Strasbourgo Rhine . Offenburg 5 Ulm Inın Vienna Munich Pasing Freiburg Rosenheim Salzburg Mulhouse o Bohumin ark assistance which compromises produced a w The plan1 of the Working Committee, represented, was approved by Sir Arthur Tedder be sented to the C.S.T.C. on 8th November. The first were tactical, to provide the maximum assistance operations on the Western front and also to assist a those on the Italian and Eastern fronts. The strateg placed third, to exert the greatest possible pressure war production. The plan was based on a number of important the first place the opportunity for successful interdic been so successfully employed in Belgium and nort thought to be much less in Germany itself beca developed railway system. Secondly, it was thought all-out attack in the Ruhr, known as Hurricane I, a attacks on the oil plants in that area would contri on communications, though not specifically aimed investigations in France had shown, it was claime recovery could be rapidly accomplished unless a tinuously maintained on the railway centres and Finally, since the waterways carried so large a traffic, they must also be included in the target In order to produce the necessary tactical eff to be delivered on the area between the whole and 10 degrees East, a line running through I Würzburg-Ulm. This was a very large area s divided into zones in each of which the tact