dis- quieting coincidence that, almost as the allied soldiers went ashore in Normandy, the first flying bombs reached London and that as, in turn, their launching sites were overrun, the V-2 rockets began to come over at much more than the speed of sound. Now the Germans were operating further new weapons to which the allies seemed to have no obvious nor immediate counter. The most important of these were the Schnorkel-equipped submarine and the jet-propelled fighter. They threatened not merely the nerve of the British population as the V-weapons had done, but they seemed to offer a prospect that the great issues of the Battle of the Atlantic and of general air superiority might be reopened. Upon these issues the whole position of the western alliance was founded. In a more robust frame of mind the allies would doubtless have counted their overwhelming strength and recognised that the most prudent course lay in an intensification of the offensive, for the only real security lay in complete victory. But the allies were by no means in an entirely robust frame of mind and powerful thoughts were turned back to defensive strategies. As Sir Arthur Harris had put it, the U-boat threat was 'resuscitated' and General Spaatz, with his painful experiences of daylight combat, began to express grave con- cern about German jet-propelled fighters. These fears found ex- pression in a new directive issued by Sir Norman Bottomley and General Spaatz in the middle of January 1945. The two agents for the direction of the Combined Bomber Offensive did not feel that German jet developments constituted an immediate threat to the reasonably free operation of the heavy bomber forces, but they did agree, as Sir Norman Bottomley explained to Sir Charles Portal on 13th January 1945, that 'a dangerous situation' might be created in the future if the development was not in the meantime checked. They also thought that the only way in which it could effectively be checked was 'by offensive measures