could ill be spared. All this bombing and that on other targets in Germany which was going on in these months added to the general strain on the German direction and the German people and the cumulative effect no doubt increased somewhat, if only a little, the rate at which the decline in oil pro- duction proceeded. Moreover, much depended on how fast the effect could be pro- duced. It has been seen how production, which seemed in September to be about to be reduced to an insignificant amount, increased in October and November and that it was not until December and January that the decline began again at an accelerated rate. Damage was then inflicted which could not be repaired soon enough to get any production before another attack could be made. The heavy bombs of Bomber Command nearly always caused damage which it was difficult to repair and in December the attacks of the Fifteenth Air Force seem to have been very effective. No doubt also, as Speer reported, after repeated bombings it took longer to repair the same amount of damage owing to the general deterioration of the plants. 3 One handicap in the bomber offensive should be mentioned here. It was the large percentage of bombs that failed to explode. It appears well founded. Both teams also suggest that the destruction of communications would ultimately have produced the same result by depriving the plants of their raw material. But apart from the fact that the decline in the supply of oil aided the attack on communi- cations, the latter could not have produced the result in the same period of time. B.B.S.U. The Strategic Air War, pp. 153-154. U.S.S.B.S. Oil Final Report (No. 109), p. 32. 1 Speer Interrogation, Aug. 1945. U.S.S.B.S. The German Oil Industry (No. 113), p. 64. 2 'It is safe to say that under the most favourable conditions, it would have been at least a year before any substantial production would have come from the underground plants.' U.S.S.B.S. Effects of Strategic Bombing, p. 62. 3 Speer Inte