erational advice.' 3 Thus, for the first time there was in a position of considerable, if by no means undisputed, authority as the main advisory body of the offensive such a committee as Mr. Vickers had suggested in 1942, on which economic and other technical advice was brought into the closest co-operation with operational experience.4 Neither the Admiralty nor the War Office were represented, as they had been in the defunct Bomb Targets Information Committee, but it was agreed that they should receive the minutes and attend when necessary. The terms of reference of the Committee were wide: (i) To advise jointly the Deputy Chief of the Air Staff and the Commanding General, U.S.St.A.F.E. and to make recom- mendations in regard to: (a) The priority of targets within the various systems of strategic objectives selected for attack under the current directive. (b) The priorities which should be established between the different target systems. (c) The need which may arise at any time for a major change in the current directive. (d) Any proposals submitted by S.H.A.E.F., the Admiralty and War Office involving the employment of strategic bomber forces. 1 Its name was suggested by General Spaatz himself. Letter Anderson [deputy for Operations, U.S.St.A.F.E.) to Bottomley, 5th Oct. 1944. 2 In addition to the two chairmen, the Directorates of Intelligence and Bomber Opera- tions of the Air Ministry had generally each two representatives, U.S.St.A.F.E. two representatives, E.A.B. two representatives, Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force each two representatives. The attendance, of course, varied from time to time and other officers and experts were summoned for special problems. Squadron Leader J. Strachey acted as Secretary. 3 Mins. of 4th Mtg. of the C.S.T.C., 8th Nov. 1944. 4 See above, Vol. I, p. 465.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 214 CHANGES IN ALLIED METHODS (ii) To issue, on behalf of the Deputy Chief of the Air Staff and the Commanding General, U.S.St.A.F.E. weekly pr