t favourable conditions, it would have been at least a year before any substantial production would have come from the underground plants.' U.S.S.B.S. Effects of Strategic Bombing, p. 62. 3 Speer Interrogation, Aug. 1945.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 242 THE ATTACK ON OIL also that the percentage of such British bombs was higher than that of the United States bombs. The main cause does not seem to have been due to faulty fusing but to the fact that the tails of the bombs broke away so that they fell flat.1 If this heavy wastage could have been reduced the production of oil would have been lowered at an even more rapid rate. Could this result have been obtained two or three months earlier if a greater effort had been made in the autumn to complete the destruction of the remaining Bergius hydrogenation and Fischer- Tropsch plants? There can be no certain answer to this question because no one can say exactly how successful the attempt would have been or how far it would have reduced the German resistance. But as has been seen in Chapter XII, there seems to have been at least a fair chance that the attacks would have been almost as success- ful in October and November as they undoubtedly were in December and January. In December also the attention of the strategic forces was diverted to the protection of the armies during the Ardennes offensive. Had that offensive not taken place undoubtedly more attacks would have been made on the oil targets. How many could have been made in the three months October-December if Sir Arthur Harris had had the same view of the situation as Sir Charles Portal it is impossible to say. In any case some production would have been possible in the smaller plants and the distilleries. But if the supply of aviation spirit could have been prevented from rising above the September level, the Luftwaffe might have been in almost the same position by the end of January as it in fact was three months later. It is by no means certain that this would hav