ply was about one million tons greater than it really was. Fortunately a mistake of almost similar magnitude was made about the consumption of oil. The two errors tended to cancel each other out and the estimates of the general trend of production, consump- tion and stocks corresponded fairly closely to the actual figures revealed in the post-war surveys. If the level of stocks was placed about a million tons too high, this mistake was due to errors made in previous years. There were some other discrepancies in the calcu- lations, but these did not substantially affect the final result. Thus, 1 Oil in the German War Effort. U.S.S.B.S. The German Oil Industry Ministerial Report Team 78 (No. 113), p. 80. 227 the advice to the Chiefs of Staff and the Defence Committee was soundly based in spite of the errors made.1 The United States committee made its own estimates and these differed a good deal from those produced by the British committee. At the end of June 1943, a United States team visited London and a conference took place which lasted two weeks and examined closely the various estimates, the information on which they were based and the reasoning by which the conclusions had been reached. The United States estimate of the stock position was still much higher than that of the British and no agreement could be reached on this problem-only a working hypothesis. On the other hand, the United States team was rightly very sceptical of the British estimates of the Fischer-Tropsch plants. There was, however, complete agreement on the general situation of the German oil supply and the great rewards that could be obtained from an attack on that target system when it could be made successfully. Both teams by their exchange of information, technical knowledge and ideas were able to get a better understanding of their difficult task, and this pre- liminary meeting of minds was to bear good fruit in the coming year. 2 The German effort to increase production had been begun earl