that oil should be accorded 'overriding priority', the Assistant Chief of the Air Staff for Policy and the Director of Bomber Operations had really meant what they said, for, in these circumstances, they advised that attacks should be carried out against oil storage depots and tac- tical dumps. These recommendations, they hoped, would be brought to the attention of the Supreme Commander.1 A few days later the prospects of the oil campaign looked even brighter. The advance of the Red Army had already neutralised the principal Polish oil fields and it was about to seal off any further sup- plies from the much more important Rumanian source. Further pro- gress had also been made with the bombing of synthetic plants and refineries in Germany and central Europe. The result was, as the Air Ministry suggested to Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary Force on 30th August 1944, that 'we are presented with an exception- ally favourable opportunity in the next few weeks of imposing on the enemy a critical situation in his war economy which, if exploited to the full, may prove decisive to our efforts.' 2 These decisive results, however, depended upon a concentrated and sustained effort by the heavy bombers, for it was evident from photographic reconnaissance that the Germans were not abandoning even their most heavily damaged oil plants. On the contrary, as was observed in a Joint Intelligence Committee report of 18th September 1944, repair activities were everywhere continuing with 'undimin- ished vigour'.3 Winter was also approaching and the weather, especially for precision bombing, was likely to become more difficult. On the other hand, the military campaign in France was rapidly coming to a victorious conclusion. The allied armies were closing up to the Rhine and on the way they had overrun the flying-bomb launching sites. On 6th September 1944, General Eisenhower de- clared the virtual ending of the French railway campaign. There 1 Air Staff brief for Portal, 21st Au