he progress of the new U-boats. The direct attack on U-boat con- struction was made at the urgent request of the allied navies. The threat to their supremacy on the sea was, indeed, a serious one. Not only were the older types of U-boats made more effective by the use of the new Schnorkel device, but a large fleet of a new type was designed in 1943 which, speedier under water than their predecessors, would have been capable of inflicting great losses on the allied merchant navies. That this threat did not mature was in great part due to the operations of the strategic air forces. 2 The most dangerous part of the new fleet was the new type XXI U-boats which were constructed by prefabricated methods. They were built in sections by a number of firms in different parts of Ger- many. The sections were then sent to eight assembly yards in the northern ports to be fitted up and then they were finally put together in three main yards at Hamburg, Bremen and Danzig. This new system was devised by Speer, Saur and Merker and the last named was placed in charge of it, replacing Rudolf Blohm, the head of the Main Committee on Shipbuilding, who did not approve of the new plan. It was hoped to produce about 550 boats by February 1945 and 1 Saur gives the number produced of the Ar.234. Saur Interrogation, 7th June 1945. He 1000, pp. 268-270. Another aircraft, the Me. 163, had the same purpose as the He. 162, but it was not a success. Rocket-assisted aircraft were never sufficiently developed to become important. 2 The subject has been surveyed in detail in B.B.S.U. The Effects of Strategic Bombing on the Production of German U-Boats and U.S.S.B.S. German Submarine Industry Report (No. 92). They are not in entire agreement with one another. In this brief account we have been much assisted by the meticulous analysis of the whole problem in the fifth volume of the Narrative The R.A.F. in the Maritime War.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 274 THE DIRECT ATTACK that many of these would have be