- clusively settled. Moreover, within the conception of selective bomb- ing, there were vigorous and powerfully supported competitions between the advocates of the various target systems which could be attacked. The result was that the strategy of the offensive was not clearly expressed and the force of the attack was blunted. Even so this failure to resolve the strategic issues of the campaign was to a great extent compensated by the remarkable efficiency with which the operations were carried out. These difficulties arising from the alternatives of bombing policy and the need for air superiority were not, however, the only strategic problems with which the Air Staff had to grapple. There was, in addition, the major task of maintaining the offensive at all. In this the Air Staff showed greater courage, more unanimity and longer en- durance, but the struggle was not, for that reason, less severe. The opposition to the constant maintenance and development of the offen- sive was based upon three principal and distinctive grounds. Through- out the war, and particularly as the offensive became more effective, there were those who objected to it on moral grounds, but the argu- ments put forward were sometimes lacking in clarity and were often based upon an inaccurate appraisal of what was being done and what it was possible to do. They did not receive any substantial authori- tative support, but if they had been more fully answered at the time it is possible that some misconceptions would not have arisen after the war when a wide range of moral arguments enjoyed a considerable vogue. A quite different kind of objection was raised and was often authoritatively supported by those who at various stages of the war extending up to January 1945 believed that a greater proportion of the bomber effort should be devoted to the defensive and less to the offensive. Thus, at the outset of the campaign Bomber Command was called upon to direct its attacks towards a reduction in the sc