eat experiments which had recently filled its history. As far as casualties were concerned, these four oil attacks were, as will already have been seen, little short of disastrous. From the 832 heavy bomber sorties despatched to Gelsenkirchen, Sterkrade, Wesseling and the Scholven plant on the nights of 12th, 16th and 21st June, no fewer than ninety-three failed to return. The least expensive and also the most successful of these operations was the first against the Nordstern plant at Gelsenkirchen. The bombing force was com- posed of 271 Lancasters of I and 3 Groups and the marking was to be done by seventeen Mosquitoes and six Lancasters of the Pathfinder Force. The plan adopted the technique of Oboe blind ground marking which was to be laid down throughout the attack in the form of red target indicators by the Mosquitoes. This marking was to be backed up by the Pathfinder Force Lancasters with green target indicators and the bombing force was to attack in two waves aiming at the centre of the red, or, if that was not apparent, at the centre of the green concentration. Thus, the tactics were broadly similar to those used from March 1943 onwards in area attacks on targets within range of Oboe, but more accurate results were looked for from the improvement in the quality and quantity of Oboe-equipped Mosquitoes which had occurred since then. Nor, as the operation showed, was this an idle hope. For the most part, the marking was accurate and at least eight  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 160 PRECISION BOMBING AT NIGHT groups of target indicators were plotted within the immediate vicinity of the aiming point. Nevertheless, one red marker was dropped with a gross error and fell nearly ten miles from the target. It attracted about thirty-five of the bombing Lancasters. For the first three minutes of the attack, the bombing appeared to be accurate and concentrated, but after that smoke began to drift across the target, obscuring the marking, and the usual pronounced creep back o