f the Combined Bomber Offensive came to be devoted to the aim of destroying the German fighter force in being. This was the position which had been reached by the middle of 1943 when the famous Pointblank directive was issued. But the policy of a combined, concentrated and selective attack upon the sources of the German fighter force was not achieved. Nor was it even clearly expressed in the directive which had to meet with a wider measure of agreement than was forthcoming for the policy it was intended to proclaim. Sir Arthur Harris was as unconvinced by the merits of a selective attack upon the German aircraft industry as he was by those of any other selective policy. His force, in addition, was not able to make massive precision attacks on individual factories but only area attacks on towns associated with them. Nor was the Eighth Air Force much better placed. The need for a reduction of German fighter strength was clear enough, for in daylight the American bombers had much less scope for evasion than did the British bombers at night, but the means of achieving it could not be found and, because of the strength of the German fighter force in being, often could not even be attempted. Such were the negative factors which led towards the crisis of Pointblank at the end of 1943. There was also a positive factor which was produced by the apparently successful course of the Bomber Command general area offensive. To those, and especially to Sir Arthur Harris, who believed that the aims of the strategic air offen- sive could be realised by an intensification of the general area offensive, the idea of a selective attack upon the aircraft industry appeared to be no less diversionary than an attack upon the submarine industry. This point of view, however, had become less convincing by the end of 1943, and especially by the spring of 1944, when it became apparent that Germany was surviving the onslaught and that the Bomber Command casualties were approaching an unbearable ra