fe were to take place only if the oil and communications operations failed to produce an adequate German air reaction and, therefore, an adequate Luftwaffe casualty rate.1 This agreement, in which Sir Arthur Tedder's communications plan figured so prominently, and not the Octagon directive, was, in fact, the basis of the directive for the control of the strategic air offen- sive which was issued by Sir Norman Bottomley and General Spaatz soon after they had received their instructions from Quebec. The mistake made at Casablanca of assuming that a vague declaration of policy by the Combined Chiefs of Staff would serve as a bombing directive to commanders in the field was not repeated. The new directive was sent by Sir Norman Bottomley to Sir Arthur Harris on 25th September 1944 and it marked the beginning of the final air offensive. In it the Commander-in-Chief was told that 'first priority' was, 'subject to the exigencies of weather and tactical feasi- bility', to be accorded to the oil campaign. At equal 'second priority' came the German rail and waterborne transport systems, tank pro- duction plants and depots, ordnance depots, and motor vehicle production plants and depots. Counter air force action was men- tioned but, for the time being, accorded no definite priority. The direct support of land and naval operations was said to be 'a con- tinuing commitment' and the Octagon phrase about 'important in- dustrial areas' was included. There was, however, no mention of 1 Note by Robb for Air Min., and U.S.St.A.F.E., 17th Sept. 1944.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 64 supporting the Russian armies. At the same time Sir Arthur Harris received a covering letter in which Sir Norman Bottomley described the new command arrangements and enlarged upon the methods by which direct support to the armies was to be afforded. 1 Oil had thus been officially designated as the principal aim of the strategic air offensive and communications had been placed among the secondary aims. In what wa