rred to it.2 Sir Arthur Tedder had, it is true, his own advisers on communica- tions. He had also, after the dissolution of the Allied Expeditionary Air Force and the transfer of its Commander, Sir Trafford Leigh- Mallory, been able to reconstruct the intelligence staff of S.H.A.E.F. more to his liking, adding S.H.A.E.F. (Air) to the previous intelli- gence department, G.2.3 But this organisation was concerned mainly with the tactical aspect of the communications problem. Sir Arthur Tedder accordingly insisted that the C.S.T.C. should consider the problem and should set up machinery for this purpose. A working committee of the C.S.T.C. on communications was, therefore, added to the others. Its first chairman, significantly enough, was Mr. Lawrence, but after a time he relinquished that post to Mr. Wood, who was also a member of the Economic Advisory Branch. The Committee was staffed by experts from the Air Staff, the War Office, the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe and the Eighth Air Force and it included Mr. Brant of the Railway Research Service, who had long been a principal adviser on this target system.4 Representatives from S.H.A.E.F. also attended it and 1 C.S.T.C. Working Cttee. (Oil) Review, 21st June 1945. For the description of the storage and distribution system, see above, Vol. I, p. 287. 2 Mins. of 2nd Mtg. of the C.S.T.C., 25th Oct. 1944. This had been preceded by a special meeting of some of its members on 24th October to consider the new demand on it. Only the effect on the military situation was considered. A number of railway experts and intelligence officers attended this meeting. 'All were in agreement that except in the zone immediately behind the battle the enemy's rail facilities were so vastly in excess of his military requirements that no appreciable effect could possibly be achieved within the envisaged time period' [i.e. the ninety days in which it was hoped to end the war]. Summary of statements by railway experts at the meeti