ntirely 123  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 124 NEW OPERATIONAL FACTORS to the logical and expected development of tendencies and decisions revealed much earlier. This was the enormously increased striking power of Bomber Command by comparison even with the height of what had been achieved in 1943. It was due to the continued ex- pansion and improved quality of the front line which, both absolutely and in its Lancaster and Mosquito elements, became larger than ever before. These famous aircraft, the Lancaster and the Mosquito, not only did all they had done before but they did more. They yielded to modifications which enabled the former to lift a 22,000-lb. bomb and the latter to carry a 4,000-lb. bomb to Berlin. Even the Halifax showed an improvement, and the somewhat more efficient version of it came increasingly into service during 1944.1 But the greater striking power of Bomber Command was not purely a question of aircraft quantities and qualities. It was also an ex- pression of greater efficiency. New technical aids were introduced. old ones were improved and put both to wider and to different uses. remarkable developments occurred in the techniques of marking and bombing different kinds of target, and, in some cases, more powerful and more effective bombs were provided. Thus, Bomber Command became more powerful, more accurate and more versatile, with the result that two important and hitherto established conditions of the offensive were changed. Area bombing was no longer always an operational inevitability for the bulk of the force at night and many great objects, which could once only have been attempted by a maxi- mum effort of the whole front line, could now be attained by a small proportion of the force. Not only could the force carry out precision attacks upon several different targets at the same time, but it was even to be shown that a single Group could effectively mount a major area attack upon a major German town. The exploitation and development of these n