d until 1944 and that even then little more than three thousand tons of bombs had been involved. 'I should have thought', Sir Charles Portal wrote, 'that at least you could have tried harder to destroy Schweinfurt'. Having, as he perhaps hoped, disposed of these matters, Sir Charles Portal once more embarked upon a reasoned argument of the merits of the oil plan and the soundness of the intelligence which supported it. He then came to what he had for some time recognised as the fundamental question of whether the general area offensive offered a better prospect than the oil plan. 'Knowing as we do', he wrote, 'the energy, resource and resilience of Germany, it would be too big an undertaking to try to defeat her with only a part of our total fighting power. If cities, once attacked, were', he continued, 'entirely des- troyed, the chances would be better; but', he said, 'as you yourself admit, cities recover their industrial output-in four or five months'. As to Sir Arthur Harris' claim that Germany had already more than once nearly collapsed under the impact of area bombing, Sir Charles Portal admitted that she had been 'seriously alarmed' by the Ham- burg attacks and by the beginning of the Battle of Berlin, but, he said, 'as far as I am aware, there is no evidence to show that she was near 1 This letter by Sir Charles Portal was written after consultation with the Air Staff. It was based on a long minute by the Director of Bomber Operations. Min. Bufton to Portal, 3rd Jan. 1945. 89 collapse. She weathered successfully the storm of the subsequent Ber- lin attacks'. Because of the doubt 'as to the point to which area attacks must be carried to be decisive in themselves, it is', Sir Charles Portal said, 'clearly the sounder policy now to employ the bomber forces so that they can make a calculable contribution to the offensive as a whole. Such a policy', he added, 'has been adopted in the attack of oil and communications'. But Sir Charles Portal's objection to the pol