tively safe targets, Bomber Command eventually contributed a substantial daylight element to the Combined Bomber Offensive. Thereby the versatility of the force was yet further increased and another of the conditions which had governed the conduct of operations up to that time was changed. The achievement of air superiority in daylight meant, as has already been indicated, that the American bomber forces were at last able to mount an offensive in daylight which, in vigour, penetration and duration, if not always in object, was comparable and in some respects even superior to that of Bomber Command at night. In March 1944 the Eighth Air Force intervened in the Battle of Berlin. In April, the Fifteenth Air Force struck the first blows in the oil cam- paign and, in May, the Eighth Air Force seized upon the same target system which, in the following month, was also to be attacked by Bomber Command. Thenceforth, the strategic air offensive became a Combined Bomber Offensive not, as hitherto, in name only, but in practice as well. The long period of frustration which had beset the American day bombers was ended by the achievement of daylight air superiority and the great contribution of Bomber Command to ulti- mate victory now became irretrievably entangled with that of the United States Strategic Air Forces. Had this Bomber Command con- tribution remained in isolation it would certainly have amounted to much less. Many of the tasks which were eventually successfully com- pleted by the combined forces could not have been discharged by Bomber Command alone any more than they could have been per- formed by the Americans alone, and several of them would, perhaps, not even have been attempted. To this extent, the eventual effect of the strategic air offensive was controlled by the achievement of day- light air superiority. Some of the great feats performed by Bomber Command in the later stages of the war, ranging from the destruction of the battleship Tirpitz to the devastati