bing, or as last resort targets, when the weather or other causes had prevented crews from reaching their primary objectives. At the same time it had long been recognised that the best results could be obtained by an attack on the communications of a selected area rather than by distributing attacks over the whole railway system of western Germany. The key to a successful strategic attack on communications lay in the importance of the hard coal of the Ruhr, which supplied not only the industry situated in the region itself, but many of the plants of northern, central and southern Germany. Though there were many lines of communication between the Ruhr and other parts of Germany, a large proportion of its coal was carried by one or two main-line routes and by the canal system of north-west Germany. It was thus, perhaps, possible by a concen- tration on these to seal off the Ruhr from the rest of Germany and deprive the latter of one of the main means of production. This fact had long been apparent to those studying the communications target system in London, but other considerations prevented them from advocating a plan drawn up for this purpose. They were preoccupied with the idea that the plan had to serve a tactical purpose in for- warding the advance of the armies. It had, therefore, to deal with an area contiguous with the military front. Targets had also to be found within the plan for the Fifteenth Air Force. It was, therefore, difficult to devise any very considerable concentration of effort. The fact that neither the Working Committee nor the C.S.T.C. believed that important strategic results could be obtained in a short period also influenced their choice of targets. On the other hand, Sir Arthur Tedder and some of his advisers, though not all of the intelligence departments of S.H.A.E.F., were convinced that the offensive could have an immediate and, perhaps, decisive strategic effect. There thus arose the rather curious situation that the advisers on strat