decided to change these priorities. From the British list of 'other objectives', the American Chiefs of Staff omitted Berlin and other industrial areas.1 In a further memorandum of 14th September 1944, the British Chiefs of Staff, however, insisted upon the inclusion of this heading though the word Berlin was now omitted and it read simply 'im- portant industrial areas'. The British Chiefs of Staff at the same time suggested the addition of a new item: 'attacks in support of the Russian Armies'. Otherwise they accepted the draft submitted by the United States Chiefs of Staff, who, in turn, accepted both these British amendments.2 The Combined Chiefs of Staff thus expressed, on British initiative, a clear intention of bringing their heavy bomber forces to bear in support of the Russian campaign. This was to be an important factor in the selection of targets. In its final form the directive was despatched to General Spaatz and Sir Norman Bot- tomley, on 14th September 1944.3 The American modifications, inspired in one respect no doubt mainly by the desire to guard the status of General Spaatz, had not improved the clarity of the directive especially as the priorities 'now established' by the Supreme Commander were by no means self- evident. There was no specific mention either of the oil campaign or the communications plan which were clearly the main alternatives lying ahead of the strategic bombers. Nor was there any mention of the morale plan which should not be confused with the proposal of general area bombing of 'important industrial areas'. The former, it must again be emphasised, was designed to be applied at a vital moment with a view to bringing the war to an immediate conclusion. The latter was intended as an alternative employment for the bombers when the weather or tactical conditions made it impossible to attack the primary targets. One was intended to be a concentrated blow of calamitous proportions. The other was a continuation of the 1 American draft d