n achieving the possi- bility of effective daylight operations was the delay in introducing an effective long-range fighter. The responsibility for this latter delay, as also for the eventual and triumphant success in overcoming it, was jointly British and American. In the final phase of the war, when air superiority had been achieved, the potential of the strategic air offensive was greater than its achievement. This was primarily due to the difficulty of obtaining a unified and concentrated policy through the channels of divided command and in the conditions of divided opinion. The striking force was stronger and more precise than the organisation which directed it. Even so, both cumulatively in largely indirect ways and eventually in a more immediate and direct manner, strategic bomb- ing and, also in other roles strategic bombers, made a contribution to victory which was decisive. Those who claim that the Bomber Com- mand contribution to the war was less than this are factually in error. Those who claim that its contribution under different circumstances might have been yet more effective disagree with one another and often overlook basic facts. The achievement was basically due to a combination of conviction, leadership, invention and courage. The Air Staff persisted through- out in the belief that the offensive was necessary to victory. They 311 were undeterred by the severe disappointments and vigorous opposi- tion which they encountered. Sir Arthur Harris gave Bomber Com- mand leadership which infused the force with a sense of purpose when cold reason might have suggested a lack of it. The scientists, technicians and designers provided the equipment and devices with- out which the courage of the aircrews would have been futile. Yet without that response, which demanded of the ordinary crews that they should face the ordeal of major battle alone and in the darkness thirty times, conviction, leadership and invention would not have availed. It is, of course, ea