ccasions when they could achieve a local and temporary superiority. There were also occasions when they could still find American bombers unaccom- panied by friendly fighters. This was inevitable, if only because no air force can ever fill the whole sky, but it was also partly due to the tactics of the American fighters themselves. It was soon realised in the Eighth Fighter Command that the full potential of a fighter could only be expressed in a tactically offensive role. Fighters tied to the bomber formation in a protective screen were at a serious disadvantage by comparison with those enjoying the whole air space in which to hunt, to manœuvre and to attack. This 1 Notes of an interview with General Kepner, C.G. 8th Fighter Cmd., by Dr. Bruce Hopper, 15th July 1944. R.S.I. 524.0581. 2 Eighth Air Force Tactical Development, Ch. 5. R.S.I. 520.549B. The full range depended not only upon fuel capacity but also good pilotage. This, of course, was a question of experience. Nevertheless, Mustangs did operate over Berlin and even beyond it in March 1944. See The Army Air Forces in World War II, Vol. III, p. 12. In June 1944 Mustangs escorted bombers from British bases all the way to Poltava in the Ukraine where they landed. This was a distance of 1,700 miles. Eighth Air Force Tactical Development, pp. 50-52. 133 had been demonstrated by German experience in the Battle of Britain and by British experience in the subsequent Circus operations. It was again demonstrated by the initial American experience over Germany.1 When, however, the Americans had gained the necessary confidence, they truly interpreted the meaning of these lessons. A higher and higher proportion of their fighters were then deployed in an offensive posture and proportionally fewer and fewer were har- nessed to the bomber formations in a strictly escorting role. To an in- creasing extent, the role of the long-range fighters became that of seeking and destroying the enemy wherever he could be found. The imme