nsive against oil targets'. He also said that the tank, motor transport and ordnance depots and plants had been dropped from the directive in order to reduce the diversion of effort from the oil and communications plans. With regard to the choice of area bombing targets, Sir Arthur Harris' attention was particularly drawn to the Ruhr, and he was reminded of the objects for which operation Hurricane I had been designed.1 . The clarity of the November directive, especially when it was associated with the reinforcing phrases of Sir Norman Bottomley's covering letter, was undoubted. There was no room, as there had been in most previous bombing directives, for conjecture as to what was meant. But clarity was not, of course, the only ingredient of a good directive. After all, the directive of 15th January 1941, which had also set oil in the position of first priority, had done so with even greater incisiveness than was now found appropriate. Among the many requirements of a good directive, realism was clearly an im- portant factor, and this could only be achieved if the intelligence upon which the plans were based was reasonably accurate and, equally, if the plans took adequate account of the operational limitations of the force which was to carry them out. About these matters there was much room for disagreement, but in pinning their faith to the oil plan in November 1944 there can be no doubt that the Air Staff were acting upon intelligence which was fundamentally, though not, of course, in all details precisely, correct. Nor can there be much doubt that they were requiring of Bomber Command no more than this great force now had the operational strength and ability to per- form. This, however, did not necessarily mean that the major part of the Bomber Command aim would now be devoted to the oil campaign. Between the selection of the aim and its actual pursuit there are usually many difficulties, and in this case, as will now be seen, they were of a particularly intracta