litical and military authorities in the desired direction to the point where the High Command must either accept the necessity of sur- render or be replaced by an alternative Command which does so'. These authorities, the memorandum suggested, would be in- fluenced mainly by considerations of foreign policy, by the fortunes of the German armed forces and by the condition of the economic and administrative system on which they depended. 'In the final crisis', the memorandum, however, stated, 'they may also be affected by certain moral factors', and among these it was found possible to dis- tinguish three principal types. The first was the morale of the German political and military leaders themselves which, it was suggested, might be directly attacked by bombing 'the traditional centres of Governmental and military control . .. ' The second was the morale of the armed forces and, though this would largely depend upon 'con- ditions in the field', it was thought that it might also depend upon the condition of civilian morale which, itself, formed the third principal factor. The condition of civilian morale might, the memorandum sug- gested, exert its influence in various ways. In an 'extreme case' there might be outbreaks of rioting, strikes or uncontrolled looting. In less severe circumstances there might, nevertheless, be an increase in volun- tary absenteeism from work and in an attitude of general 'unhelpful- ness' towards the Government. Even if morale was not impaired, an attack upon it might force the German authorities to divert increas- ing resources towards its maintenance at the expense of other vital commitments. In distinction to earlier appreciations, the Air Staff did not, however, take an optimistic view of any of these possibilities. They now believed that German civilian morale was 'negative rather than positively good or bad'. They did not believe that the average German saw much to be gained from resistance to the authorities and they recognised tha