nly to area attack on large targets. He regarded Oboe Mark I as unreliable. The Mark II apparatus, known as Album Leaf, was better and he judged that by its use marker bombs could be dropped within three or four hundred yards of the aiming point. This, however, would not, he thought, result in the main bombing concentration achieving an error of less than one thousand yards, and even this would depend upon good weather and 'reasonable opposition'. Moreover, Oboe was liable to be jammed by the enemy and might at any time be put completely out of action. The Album Leaf equipment was also still in short supply. H2S, Sir Arthur Harris pointed out, was not a precision bombing device. Its functioning depended upon the nature of the target and was at its lowest efficiency against small precise objectives. G-H was even more accurate than Album Leaf Oboe, but in Sir Arthur Harris' view, not enough sets were available to make precision bombing worth while. If these arguments were valid, then clearly the programme of bombing which Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory had in mind for Bomber Command was entirely impracticable. Not only would it be im- possible to hit the relatively small targets which he had selected but 1 Note by Harris, 13th Jan. 1944, and letter Harris to Tedder, 2nd March 1944.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 26 BASES OF VICTORY AND DISSENSION it would be undesirable to try, for the majority of them were in France and other friendly territories. In those parts of Europe it would be injudicious to broadcast bombs over wide areas as had been done in Germany. The destruction of a small target at the cost of a large town was, perhaps, reasonable in Germany, but much less so in France, Holland and Belgium. Sir Arthur Harris, however, had yet other arguments against the policy with which he knew his force was threatened, and these too were based upon an operational appreciation of the possibilities. The plan to attack a large number of small targets in a relatively short time sugg