s has already been noted, Speer was the first to recognise. These area attacks produced results which were altogether different from those of the attack on communications, though this attack and that on oil contributed to them. The highly industrialised complex of the Ruhr depended for its production on its internal transport and the gas and electricity grids which served large portions of it. These were so greatly injured by the increased area attack that production in many plants was completely stopped. The Ruhr had plenty of coal, in most cases near the fac- tories, but the light railways and other means of transporting it were continually being cut. The gas grid was reduced to a quarter of its normal production and many plants that depended on it, including the steel plants, suffered accordingly. A similar, if not quite so serious, effect was produced on the electricity grid. Thus, production in the 262 263 Ruhr had been reduced to a fraction before its external communica- tions were cut or it was surrounded by the allied armies. Much the greater part of all attacks in the Ruhr was made by Bomber Com- mand. It was considered to be specially a British target and the Eighth Air Force seldom went there. It is true that the injuries inflicted on many of the marshalling yards, bombed by both air forces as part of the attack on communica- tions, contributed to the general disorganisation. But the reduction of production inside the Ruhr was due to a large extent to other causes. The gas, electricity and even water shortage, which affected pro- duction, was mainly due to the cutting of the lines and pipes by area bombing, though a number of gas works and electricity works were destroyed or seriously damaged. In addition, many factories were destroyed or severely injured and their repair was much more diffi- cult under the conditions created by area bombing. Thus, the decline in the production of the Ruhr was larger and more rapidly produced than that in the rest of Germ