already desperate. It even suggested that the discharge of twenty thousand tons of bombs on the centre of Berlin within the space of seventy-two hours would, in the absence of that condition, have little effect upon the outcome of the war. Yet the hope that less severe and much more widely dispersed attacks would have a decisive effect upon German morale and war production had been one of the principal strategic foundations of the policy of general area bombing. Certainly this reasoning of August 1944 was at con- siderable variance with that of August 1943 which had led Sir Charles Portal to urge upon Sir Arthur Harris the importance of attacking Berlin. But, of course, this change had occurred in the light of ex- perience including, no doubt, especially that of the Battle of Berlin itself. The belief expressed in the memorandum that an attack on morale was unlikely to be a profitable pursuit except in the special circumstances which were so carefully defined undoubtedly removed one of the principal strategic justifications of general and sustained area bombing, but there was a second strategic argument in favour of this form of attack. Area attacks upon towns were certainly aimed primarily at the populations, but the intention was to deny them the means to work by the destruction of public utilities such as gas, communications, electricity supplies and housing, as well as to break their will to work. It was also intended to divert the efforts of the people from war pro- duction to the repairing of their losses. Area bombing of town centres was an attack upon industrial morale, but it was also and in its main aim an attack on industry itself. A belief that industrial morale was unlikely to be severely affected did not, therefore, necessarily invali- date the policy of general area bombing. But the Air Staff, as will have been noticed, had for some time been losing confidence in general area bombing as an efficient means of attack upon industry. As the operational ab