tive without prior reference to the Combined Chiefs of Staff. 'Oil', the Chief of the Air Staff said, 'should continue to have absolute priority', but subject to that and to the need to deal with jet factories and submarine yards, 'we should', Sir Charles Portal said, 'use available effort in one big attack on Berlin and attacks on Dresden, Leipzig, Chemnitz, or any other cities where a severe blitz will not only cause confusion in the evacuation from the East but will also hamper the movement of troops from the West'. It would be appropriate, Sir Charles Portal concluded, to get General Spaatz and Sir Arthur Tedder to approve these suggestions which would also have to be submitted to the Chiefs of Staff, for whom, in view of the imminence of the Yalta Conference, the Vice-Chiefs of Staff were already deputising.4 On the same day, that is 26th January, Sir Archibald Sinclair, after 1 Min. Bottomley to Portal, 26th Jan. 1945. 2 Min. initialled 'J. H.' to Sinclair, 26th Jan. 1945. 3 Min. Freeman (A.P.S. to S. of S.) to Williams (A.C.A.S.(Ops.)), 26th Jan. 1945. 4 Min. Portal to Bottomley, 26th Jan. 1945.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 102 ANTI-CLIMAX AND CLIMAX consulting the Air Staff, replied to Mr. Churchill's question in the following terms: Secretary of State for Air to Prime Minister 'You asked me last night whether we had any plan for harrying the German retreat from Breslau. The target which the enemy may offer in a large scale retreat Westward to Dresden and Berlin is best suited to Tactical Air Forces. This is particularly so now when cloud often makes it impossible to bomb from high level. The Russians, as they swing round on lines parallel to the retreating Germans, should have excellent opportunities for ground strafing with their fighters. It would be extremely difficult for our heavy bombers to interfere with these enemy movements by direct attack on their lines of retreat. The targets are at extreme range from U.K. and Mediterranean bases; precise Intelligen