es of methanol. 3 M.E.W. Six-Monthly Report, 28th Feb. 1945. The previous report, while recognising the reduction in the supply of nitrogen, had not foreseen the effect on the supply of explosives. 237 explosive plants as primary objectives was a serious mistake, and that if the situation had been realised earlier a more rapid collapse of the German resistance could have been brought about. This con- clusion is, however, of very doubtful validity. No great effect could have been produced before the oil attack began, and, once that had begun, there was greater advantage in concentrating on oil than in making explosives the primary object of the attack. But, as it was, the effect was important and it is curious that the connection was not brought sooner and in a more emphatic manner to the attention of the Chiefs of Staff who would certainly have been interested in it.1 The attack on oil also produced a similar effect on the supply of synthetic rubber. This material was produced in four big plants, all of which derived the nitric acid necessary for their purpose from the nitrogen plants of the oil installations. The damage to Leuna, Scholven, Nordstern, Ludwigshafen and the chemical works at Lever- kusen deprived them of the greater part of their supply. The pro- duction of rubber was cut by half. But the loss does not seem to have had any serious effect on the German means of defence because stocks were sufficient to allow the most important products such as aircraft tyres to be manufactured in sufficient quantities. The United States post-war survey concluded that, if the connection between rubber and oil had been more clearly recognised, the attack would have been differently directed and so much loss caused as to reduce to a significant degree the supply of aircraft and motor vehicles. But, as in the case of the explosives supply, it does not seem probable that this would have made much difference to the course adopted in 1944.2 But, whatever view be taken of thes