ttacks upon German targets. It also helped to increase the accuracy of area bombing. These bene- ficial consequences did not make their full impact until September, by which time the allied armies were well on the way to the Rhine, but, on account of their eventual effect, the techniques of the short- range auxiliary offensive over France were to have an important bearing upon the subsequent strategic attacks on Germany. If they had not been developed, then obviously the opportunity created by the military advance could not have been exploited. It is, therefore, not unreasonable, from the viewpoint of the strategic air offensive, to regard the Overlord air diversion as an important phase of operational training for Bomber Command. Precision bombing over Germany, or anywhere else, did not, how- ever, depend only upon the development of techniques. It depended as much upon the degree of opposition which the enemy was able to offer. Air defences have a marked effect on bombing accuracy even before they cause actual casualties. Important as the allied military advance was to be in this connection, the loss of territory was by no 1 This was the first attack of the series on the night of 12th June 1944 when the target was the Nordstern plant near Gelsenkirchen. Actually, as can be seen in App. 32 (i), these attacks caused more damage than appeared. 2 The Gelsenkirchen attack resulted in a missing rate of 5.8 per cent and that on Wesseling on the night of 21st June in one of 27.8 per cent. The other attacks were on Sterkrade (16/17th June) and Scholven-Buer (21/22nd June). They resulted respectively in missing rates of ten per cent and 6·1 per cent. 145 means the only loss which was to be suffered by the German night fighter force. The period between March and June 1944 was a phase of great significance in the development of active counter-measures to the German air defences. In the remainder of this section it is, therefore, intended to examine the progress which occurred