l group, 100, had, it is true, been formed in Bomber Command for the specific purpose of 'combating the enemy night defence organisation by means of: (a) Countermeasures (b) Offensive Night Fighters.' 1 But for the first six months of its life, the activities of the new group were confined to the operation of ground-based jammers and of the long-range night fighters which were transferred to it from Fighter Command and elsewhere. Apart from one type of jamming, known as airborne Cigar, the first airborne radio counter-measures of 100 Group began on D-Day. Nor did the long-range night fighter effort amount to much either in terms of the effort devoted to it or of the results which it achieved. During the period between December 1943 1 100 Group Review of Operations from Nov. 1943 to May 1945. Cited below as 100 Group Review.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 146 PRECISION BOMBING AT NIGHT and April 1944 inclusive, the number of these fighter sorties which completed a patrol was only 220 and the number of German aircraft claimed to have been destroyed was a mere twenty-seven.1 The reasons for this meagre effort and still more meagre achieve- ment were numerous. Only three Serrate-equipped squadrons were available. One of these, number 141, was the original Serrate squad- ron, but the others, numbers 169 and 239, had previously been oper- ating on Mustangs and, therefore, had to be re-equipped with Mos- quitoes.2 Their crews had no experience of the Serrate equipment, which, it will be remembered, was the radar device for detecting the position of the enemy aircraft, nor did they have any experience of long-range navigation. In addition, the picture of enemy night fighter tactics was far from complete and the 100 Group fighters could do little more than experiment with various methods of opera- tion. Moreover, the Mosquito II aircraft with which they were equipped were mostly suffering badly from old age and their opera- tions had to be drastically curtailed so that they could b