ore capable of delivering a 'knock-out blow' against the German aircraft industry than Bomber Command was capable of delivering a 'knock-out blow' against the leading German towns. The targets were not much fewer in number. They were also much smaller and in other ways more difficult to disrupt. All that could be attempted against the German aircraft industry was, there- fore, a war of gradual attrition in which the German fighter force would still have its opportunity for active defence. It was funda- mentally unreasonable to suppose that when the casualty rate of the bombing offensive became too high, the situation could be redressed by adopting another kind of offensive which took the bombers to the same, or even more dangerous, areas of attack. The only way in which such a situation could really be redressed was by an enor- mous increase in the power of destruction or by a series of effective measures against the enemy fighters already in action, for, by either 1 In July 1943, for example, he asked that a force of about 100 long-range night fighters should be directed to the support of his command. The Air Staff refused the request. Letter Harris to Portal, 3rd July 1943, and letter Portal to Harris, 9th July 1943. 2 See below, p. 147 ff. This was another occasion on which Sir Arthur Harris called for night fighter support on 'a substantial scale'. 3 i.e. the towns associated with aircraft and ball-bearings production.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 92 THE REWARD OF DISSENSION method, the balance between the rate of attrition being inflicted by the bombers and that inflicted upon them could be tipped in favour of the former. If, however, as events had shown, the intermediate objective of the Pointblank plan was a fundamentally unsound conception, it was even less reasonable for Sir Charles Portal now to suggest that its execution had, 'with a little help from Bomber Command', in fact, secured the object, and not even to mention other and far more significant agen- cie