that Germany no longer obtained the 30,000 tons a year produced in occupied territories. The supply for agriculture was, indeed, drastically cut down, but that for explosives had also to be greatly reduced with considerable effect on the means of defence. The manu- facture of the most powerful explosive (hexogen) had to be aban- doned because it consumed so much more of the basic material. Nor was there even then sufficient of this and the filling of the shells had to be supplemented with other materials, mainly with rock salt, which, of course, reduced considerably the power of their blast. Already at the end of August Speer had to report the serious effect of the oil attack on the whole chemical industry and particularly on explosives because the supply of methanol had decreased to a quarter of that previously produced while the supply of nitric acid had been halved.2 This situation was eventually recognised by M.E. W. but very late in the day and the possibility of producing such a result had not been used in the arguments put forward for the oil attack nor the consequences of its first success brought to the notice of those directing it.3 In their post-war survey the United States experts reached the conclusion that the failure to select the ammonia and 1 This subject is examined in detail in U.S.S.B.S. Powder, Explosives, Special Rockets and Jet Propellants, War Gases and Smoke Acid (Ministerial Report 1) (No. 111) whose findings are endorsed by the Oil Division Final Report. 2 Report Speer to Hitler, 30th Aug. 1944, App. 32 (iii). Methanol is the principal constituent of hexogen. In the Speer Papers there is a document of the Plenipotentiary- General for Special Questions on Chemical Production giving details of the effect of the attack on the five principal sources of methanol. 3 M.E.W. Six-Monthly Report, 28th Feb. 1945. The previous report, while recognising the reduction in the supply of nitrogen, had not foreseen the effect on the supply of explosives. 23