ar 91 38 The number at or on passage to operational bases in Norway but not yet fully operational 12 17 The number fully operational at the end of the war . I 6 2 B.B.S.U. German U-Boats, p. 24. fully operational by January 1945 a serious situation would almost 277 certainly have arisen, as naval intelligence had predicted. That this did not happen was due to one of Bomber Command's most import- ant contributions to naval defence. For the mining of the Baltic by its aircraft was certainly one of the main causes which prevented the XXI type U-boats from becoming operational even in limited numbers. The mining of the Baltic and other coastal areas had made, and especially throughout the latter part of the war, a considerable con- tribution both to naval defence and to the reduction of German pro- duction. Since March 1942 it had been carried out entirely by Bomber Command. It now became of great importance. The main area for the acceptance trials of the U-boats and the training of their crews was in Danzig bay because its compact expanse of deep water was admirably suited for that purpose. In the high summer months Bomber Command could not lay mines there but it had done so when the nights were long enough both in 1942-43 and 1943-44. In neither case, however, had the Germans suffered much inconvenience since they had plenty of mine-sweepers, and the only result was the destruc- tion of one U-boat. But in August 1944 a new minelaying season began with more ingeniously detonated mines and the Germans found these much harder to eliminate. Admiral Friedeberg, who was in command of all U-boat trials and training, had to close the area, though only one U-boat had actually been blown up. No sooner had training re- started than Bomber Command laid more mines and the area had again to be closed. This process continued until finally, early in January, the Germans were forced to abandon the area altogether for their important trials and training. The value attached to it by the