s probably too large a one.1 When, after the Ardennes offensive, it was realised how much had yet to be done to overcome German resistance, the armies insisted on further attacks being made on tank construction. Some notable successes were achieved and the Siegmar plant in Chemnitz which made engines was completely wiped out by Bomber Command's area attack on Chemnitz on 5th March. Even in the C.S.T.C. there were some who now thought that a direct attack on weapons would pro- duce results more rapidly than the attack on communications.2 It seems clear, however, that the United States investigating team were right in thinking that in this later period the indirect attack was the greatest factor in producing the precipitate decline of production that then ensued.3 At the same time the shortage of oil, as has been seen in 1 U.S.S.B.S. Tank Industry Report (No. 78), pp. 19-20. Only two plants made the engines in 1943. One of these, the Maybach Motor works at Friedrichshafen, was hit in that year but not seriously damaged. 2 Mins. of 17th and 18th Mtgs. C.S.T.C., 7th and 14th Feb. 1945. At the Vice-Chiefs of Staff Meetings on Ist February 1945 the Vice-Chief of the Air Staff asserted that, if Panzer production were given first priority, the Russians would be able to get to Berlin! 3 U.S.S.B.S. Tank Industry Report (No. 78), p. 21. 'Plant officials were unanimous in declaring that operations at dispersed plants were practically impossible and operations at main plants were greatly hindered by transportation difficulties during this period. This is the chief reason for the final decline in tank production in the first months of 1945.' The information about the Siegmar plant was obtained from documents, not from investigations in the plant itself.  THE DIRECT ATTACK .CIATIONS AND RESULTS d the tanks that existed from being used effectively der might not then have contributed very materially of the German armies. this period tanks had a position of first priority in the e of