ility to strike massive and highly effective blows at relatively small targets such as 1 Sir Arthur Harris had been aware of this at least since the summer of 1942. Of the German night fighters he wrote, 'a large proportion of their successes are gained by a small number of expert pilots'. Letter Harris to Portal, 3rd July 1942. 41 oil plants and communications targets both at short and at extremely long range. Thus, two fundamental conditions of night bombing were radically changed in the final offensive, and, ironically enough, both these changes were intimately related to the diversion of the force caused by the Overlord preparations and to the success of Overlord itself to which these preparations contributed so much. In the French railway campaign and the associated operations the main force of Bomber Command, under the leadership of the special- ised squadrons, received its battle training in the technique of night precision bombing. Operational developments of the first importance took place, but these could not be applied to targets beyond the limited range of Album Leaf Oboe and later of G-H. Nor, of course, could the force be concentrated in sustained attack by these or any other means against limited target systems while the German night fighter force retained the effectiveness which had characterised its efforts in north and south Germany during the latter stages of the Battle of Berlin and over the Pas de Calais in the latter stages of the French railway campaign. Thus, in the diversion of Bomber Com- mand to the preparations for Overlord the techniques of night precision bombing were learnt and developed, but the opportunity of applying them in Germany itself on a large and sustained scale was not guaranteed. This opportunity arose, to a great extent, from the success of Over- lord and the subsequent overrunning and occupation of France which was a crippling blow to the German night fighter force. It was bereft of its early warning areas, and another r