have been virtually alone in the oil campaign. It is, indeed, difficult to see how night air superiority could ever have been gained if day air superiority had not first been achieved. To this extent, the ultimate success of the night offensive was controlled by the winning of daylight air superiority.1 The realisation of the significance of air superiority should not, however, be allowed to obscure the fact that both in daylight and in darkness it was never anything more than a means to an end. The value of air superiority lay, not in itself, but in the way that it was exploited. The collapse of the German night fighter force would not have been an important event had it not been for the great and flexible striking power of Bomber Command which had been built up during the previous four years. Nor should the connection which has now been established between day and night air superiority be 1 Professor L. Brandt, who was responsible for the development of German radar installations, states that during the war, 1,500 German night fighters were equipped with the Naxos radar device which enabled them to home upon H2S transmissions from a distance of fifty kilometres. He adds that never more than fifty Naxos night fighters were able to operate on a single occasion 'due to the decline in synthetic fuel production from 500,000 tons in January 1944 to 10,000 tons in October 1944. This in turn was due to a considerable extent to the fact that there were insufficient day fighters avail- able ... ' Translated extract from Paper read at Radar Conference in Frankfurt, 1953, by Professor Brandt. S.A.O .- VOL. III Pt. 5-K  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 136 NEW OPERATIONAL FACTORS allowed to lead to a confusion of the two issues which were, in fact, quite different. The defeat of the German day fighter force had little direct and no immediate effect upon the night fighter force other than, perhaps, to involve it to some indeterminate extent in the general decline of Luftwaffe morale. Nor