on, and the target was then attacked 'with tre- mendous effect' by a hundred and forty Lancasters of 5 Group. Daylight reconnaissance photographs later showed that nearly all the buildings in the target area had been demolished or heavily damaged. 2 The next day, 6th April, 5 Group was informed by Bomber Com- mand that it was to be employed as a separate force and that two Lancaster squadrons of the Pathfinder Force, 83 and 97, were to be attached to it for marking duties in co-operation with 617 Squadron. In addition, 627 Mosquito Squadron was similarly to be attached to 5 Group for low-level marking sorties. Further Mosquitoes were also procured for 617 Squadron itself and by the night of 20th April, when 1 Bomber Cmd. O.R.B. Jan .- June 1944. 2 O.R.B. (617 Sqdn.), 5th April 1944, and O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Report. 147 Lan- casters were despatched. Seven made abortive sorties and one was shot down, probably by flak, over the target. The two marking Lancasters were flown by Squadron Leaders McCarthy and Munro. They also dropped one 8,000-lb. bomb each.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 154 PRECISION BOMBING AT NIGHT the marshalling yards at La Chapelle were bombed, Wing Com- mander Cheshire could muster four of these aircraft over the target, from his own squadron.1 From the night of 10th April, when it carried out an independent attack on the marshalling yards at Tours, 5 Group, in addition to many other activities, played an important part in pressing forward the railway campaign and a leading part in the further development of night precision bombing techniques. The low-level visual ground marking technique of 5 Group, which was further developed in the course of these attacks, produced results which were materially better than those achieved in the high-level blind Oboe marking attacks which had preceded them. In the first fifteen of the latter type of operations, it will have been noticed, some forty-five per cent of the despatched effort was wasted owing to abortive sor