technique involved the deliberate planting of the spot fire markers at some distance, usually between three and four hundred yards, from the actual aiming point. The precise extent of the offset was then observed in terms of distance and direction from the aiming point and what was known as the 'false vector' was arrived at. The average wind findings in the target area were adjusted in terms of this vector and a 'false wind' was broadcast to the bombing force. This meant that bombs aimed at the offset marking struck, not the marking, but the target. The Operational Research Section at Bomber Command con- cluded that the three principal explanations of the superiority of the 5 Group technique were that the presence of a master bomber eliminated the influence of inaccurate markers, 2 that the bombing force normally had a single point of aim and aimed with a common wind value on the bomb-sight and that the Group was already ex- perienced in precision attack upon small targets. These estimates certainly had some force, but it is a mistake to assume that the bulk of the 5 Group squadrons had much experience of precision bombing. Owing to the heavy casualties of the recent past many of the crews had little or no experience of any kind of operational bombing, and a high proportion of the older crews had never previously bombed anything other than area targets in Germany. The real key to the success of the operations lay in the brilliance of the crews who carried 1 Spot fires, consisting essentially of impregnated cotton wool which burnt vividly on the ground, should not be confused with target indicators which cascaded on to the ground from the air. The Germans, of course, were busy simulating both kinds of markers, but experienced crews could generally detect the deception. 2 Either by having them cancelled or by warning the bombing force verbally of their position.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS PRECISION BOMBING AT NIGHT 156 out the marking, backing up and wind finding, as als