ointment as Supreme Allied Com- mander of General Eisenhower. Overlord had become the substance of the promise to Russia that a 'second front' would be opened in Europe, and it also represented the expression of the belief, which had always been fundamental to allied grand strategy, that the war would only end with the engagement and defeat of the German army in the field. This belief had long been disagreeable to many air-minded officers, notable among whom was Sir Arthur Harris. To them, it seemed to represent an outmoded, uneconomic and, in view of German military strength, unsound strategy which took inadequate account of, and left insufficient resources for, the development of a war-winning in- dependent and strategic air offensive. Their view had demanded an overriding priority for the construction, manning, supply and re- inforcement of heavy bomber squadrons and had suggested that the only military forces required were lightly armed flying columns more akin to policemen than to soldiers who could, in due course, be used to occupy enemy territory to exploit and impose the terms of victory after it had been won from the air.1 Despite its attractions, this view was never adopted by the supreme authorities, especially after what the Prime Minister had described as the 'other possibilities' which were opened by the involvement first of 1 See, for example, memo. by Trenchard for Churchill, 19th May 1941, App. 10 (i), cited above, Vol. I, p. 170, Min. Harris to Churchill, 17th June 1942, cited above, Vol. I, pp. 340-341, and Min. Slessor to Portal, 1 1th Dec. 1942, cited above, Vol. I, p. 376. II Russia and then of the United States. Nor was it a view upheld either in London by the Chief of the Air Staff, Sir Charles Portal, or in Washington by the Commanding General of the United States Army Air Forces, General Arnold. In neither Britain nor America were the heavy bombers ever given anything like unlimited priority and their operations were by no means always conf