nt methods. In the first case the attack was to be directed by the 5 Group visual marking technique, but if the red spot fires could not be seen from the bomb- ing height of seventeen to twenty-two thousand feet the attacking force was warned not to wait in the target area but to attack blindly on H2S indications. The Scholven oil plant was also to be visually marked with red spot fires by 5 Group Mosquitoes, but in this case Oboe Mosquitoes of the Pathfinder Force were to drop yellow target indicators as proximity markers. The force despatched to Wesseling consisted of six Mosquitoes and a hundred and twenty Lancasters of 5 Group and seven Lancasters of I Group. That sent to Scholven consisted of four Mosquitoes and a hundred and twenty Lancasters of 5 Group, five Mosquitoes of the Pathfinder Force and three Lancasters of I Group. Neither operation achieved the accuracy which was hoped for and the only apparent result was some blast damage to an oil storage tank in the north-west corner of the Wesseling plant. Complete cloud coverage prevented the bombing force from seeing the marking and only a very small proportion of the aircraft engaged brought back photographs showing anything other than cloud. Above the cloud this midsummer's night was, however, objectionably clear despite the absence of a moon. The brunt of a most effective German fighter attack fell upon the Wesseling force, from which thirty-seven Lan- casters failed to return. Eight more Lancasters from the Scholven force were also reported missing. At both targets there was intense and, up to eighteen or twenty thousand feet, accurately predicted flak. At least thirty-five of the forty-five missing Lancasters were, neverthe- less, probably shot down by fighters and, in addition, two more 1 O.R.S. Nt. Raid Report. On this operation the airborne Mandrel screen was used in support of Bomber Command for the first time.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 162 returned after combats with fighters so badly damaged that the