in a position to survey the general trend of production so far as it could be done at all. Nevertheless, after making this point, he essayed with some other officials to form his own estimate, which is quoted with some disposition to accept it by both the United States and British surveys. 'We estimate', he wrote, 'that transportation difficulties were responsible for the following percentages of all production losses except that due to loss of territory. Per Cent IO First and second quarters of 1944 Third quarter of 1944 Fourth quarter of 1944 First quarter of 1945 25 60 90' 1 This is, however, a purely subjective estimate and may be far from the truth. It certainly underrates the effect of the direct attacks con- sidered in the next section. Moreover, transport difficulties were pro- duced by the other attacks as well as by the planned attack on com- munications. Nevertheless, it is clear that this attack was the greatest single cause of the decline in production by the last months of 1944. Some difference of opinion still remains as to what was the most important part of this successful offensive. Was it the destruction of the railway centres and marshalling yards or the interdiction pro- duced by the bombing of the bridges and waterways? Clearly the latter had produced a more immediate effect when it could be main- tained. The interruption of the canal traffic alone had deprived the rest of Germany of nearly one third of the Ruhr coal. On the other hand, it has been pointed out that if the railway centres had not been destroyed and the marshalling yards prevented from function- ing, repairs could have been much more quickly executed and the effects of the interdiction attacks much reduced. Even the canals might then have been more quickly repaired. The difference of opinion was due to past disputes between those who directed the attack. The answer appears to be that both forms of attack were necessary to produce the desired result. Similarly the attack on oil wa