rhaps, no more than a slight understatement and over-simplification of the real situation. After all, at that time, the Battle of Berlin was still joined and its outcome, though it could, perhaps, be predicted, was not yet certain. The attitude of the Air Staff was neither unanimous nor definite and the various pronounce- ments of Sir Charles Portal showed more hesitation and less convic- tion than those of Sir Arthur Harris. But by November 1944 the issue had become more sharply focused. By then, the oil plan seemed to the Air Staff clearly to offer the prospect of decisive results, and, also in their view, the means of executing it seemed equally clearly to be at hand. Nevertheless, the increased conviction and clarity with which the Air Staff presented their case did not have a corresponding effect upon Sir Arthur Harris, with the result that what had pre- viously been a difference of opinion now became a serious dispute. Nor was this dispute ever resolved, and there can be no doubt that it diminished the effectiveness of Bomber Command in the final phase of the war. It may seem curious that such a dispute between the Chief of the Air Staff and a Commander-in-Chief could endure in this way with- out either a solution being reached or a change in command taking place. The ultimate responsibility for its consequences must, of course, be attributed to the senior of the two protagonists, Sir Charles Portal, who, it may be judged, should either have changed or en- forced his view. Nevertheless, the explanation undoubtedly lies in the 1 Min. Portal to Sinclair, 29th Jan. 1944.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 78 THE REWARD OF DISSENSION character and prestige of Sir Arthur Harris. These were such that the Commander-in-Chief could not be prevailed upon to change his mind and, even then, could scarcely be removed from his command. Before considering the course of this dispute, it is, therefore, appro- priate to reflect upon the underlying causes of the deadlock. Sir Arthur Harri