The preparations for Overlord, as will be remembered, involved Bomber Command in a plan for the destruction of a large number of relatively small targets within an extremely short time. Military con- siderations had dictated the choice of the targets, most of which were in France or other friendly but occupied territory, and the dates by which they had to be destroyed. Political considerations had dictated that, on account of their locations, the absolute minimum of inci- dental damage should be inflicted in the neighbourhood of these tar- gets. Bomber Command methods, therefore, had to be radically ad- justed. First, a major diversion from the offensive against Germany had to be accepted and, secondly, a completely different technique of bombing had to be devised. Obviously the tactics of massed area bombing were wholly inappropriate. A series of precision attacks was called for in which the scale of each operation was carefully related to the size and nature of each particular target. To meet the military and political requirements of the situation, the principle of economy of effort assumed a paramount importance. The greater the accuracy achieved the smaller would be the scale of attack required and the less the incidental damage inflicted. The smaller the scale of attack required the greater would be the number of targets destroyed in a given time and, therefore, the more quickly would the plan be completed. AL WA ON These requirements which, as has been seen, had such strong and authoritative backing, did, indeed, make heavy demands upon the relatively untested capacities of Bomber Command for a new kind of offensive. They placed an absolute premium upon the accuracy of bombing and they reversed the previous trend of increasing satura- tion tactics. It became necessary for Bomber Command to divide its force and to attack several different targets at the same time. This latter necessity was not, however, due only to the strategic requirements of Overlord. It wa