o bring about the introduction of new devices in the vain effort to ward off the onslaught from the air. This effect is briefly S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-B  INTRODUCTION 8 B described in the second part of the first section of this chapter. But more important is it that from the same cause the statistics of pro- duction and communications became less complete and reliable and finally ceased to exist in many sections of the German economy. For the two main target systems, however, oil and communications, there is abundant evidence for most of the period which enables the problems concerning them to be reduced within well-defined limits. It is more difficult to evaluate the contribution of area bombing to the final result. Yet here also, if the evidence has to be assembled from many diverse inquiries into particular cities, industries and factories, it does, when viewed as a whole, lead to fairly clear con- clusions. The same is true of the direct attacks on the production of the weapons of the German land, sea and air forces which are also considered in the final section. Most difficult of all is to ascertain the contribution of all these dif- ferent forms of strategic air attack to the advance of the allied armies into Germany. It is necessary to consider this question since it affects all the others. But this problem is also being studied by those engaged in writing the history of the land campaign in the West and their conclusions may differ in some respects from those obtained from the evidence now available. CHAPTER XII THE CULMINATION OF THE OFFENSIVE: THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY I. Pointblank and Overlord: The ingredients of victory and the bases of dissension, March-June 1944 2. The origins of the final offensive: oil, communications and morale, June-September 1944 3. The problem of concentration, October-November 1944 4. The reward of dissension, November 1944-January 1945 5. Anti-climax and climax, January-May 1945 'And the day may not be far off when aerial ope