hotographic reconnaissance showed that the plant had been put out of action but it had not been so severely damaged as was originally hoped. Much of the attack, from which three of the I Group Lancasters failed to return, had fallen slightly to the west of the target.2 For the night of 14th January there was forecast to be a good chance of a cloudless sky over Leuna, but the visibility was not expected to be good. A double attack upon the oil plant there with alternative tactics was planned. Two hundred and sixteen Lan- casters, eight of them from I Group and the rest from 5 Group and eight Mosquitoes, also from 5 Group, were despatched in the first wave which was due to attack at 9 p.m. The second wave, which was to attack four hours later, consisted of three hundred and fifty- five Lancasters from 1 and 6 Groups and the Pathfinder Force and six Mosquitoes of the Pathfinder Force. If the conditions were suitable, the plan was to use the controlled Newhaven marking technique, but, if cloud or visibility made that impossible, resort was to be had to blind sky marking. The first wave found reasonably good conditions and a ground 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Day Raid Report. Immediate Interpretation Report, 13th March 1945, Supplement, 18th March 1945 and Damage Assessment Report. These day raid reports, which had been discontinued in 1943, when Bomber Command ceased to take part in daylight activities, were curiously not resumed till March 1945 when a new series was begun. 2 O.R.S.(B.C.) Day Raid Report, Immediate Interpretation Report and Supplement, 25th March 1945.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 202 THE OPERATIONAL CLIMAX marking attack was undertaken. The initial markers were somewhat scattered but the master bomber succeeded in locating some accurate ones and in getting the bombing well concentrated. By the time the second wave reached Leuna the sky had completely clouded over and no ground marking was possible. H2S checks suggested, how- ever, that the sky marking was well clustered