n economy and to the conduct of the war.' 3 There were, however, some consolations. As in the case of the oil offensive, Speer placed some hope on the autumn weather and the enemy's lack of perseverance in the attack. There were large stocks of raw materials and components in the hands of the manufacturers. The coal available had to be used for the most important industries. It could be brought from the Silesian coal fields, provided always that the railways could function and they must have overriding priority. In the second half of December Speer made an inspection of the Western front and made a number of recommendations for the better use of army transport. One of the most serious difficulties was the almost complete destruction of the railway telecommunica- tions service and he suggested that some improvised system should be set up with the aid of the Party Organisation, which should also provide local labour for the repair of railway lines and facilities. At the same time he insisted that the supply of weapons was still ade- quate and that their quality was improving. What was nullifying the Ardennes offensive was the total lack of movement in daytime, a 1 Report Speer to Keitel, 7th Nov. 1944. 2 Speech by Speer, 8th Nov. 1944, Speer Docs. (Hamburg Series). 3 Letter Speer to Hitler, 11th Nov. 1944, see App. 35. It seems, however, that but little extra motor transport actually reached the Ruhr. 253 condition which the army seemed to accept without sufficient effort to overcome it.1 This situation was certainly not understood in London. The Working Committee and the C.S.T.C. were so far right that a period must elapse before the injury to communications affected the pro- duction of weapons. But they did not realise the serious effect of the shortage of coal on all the activities of the Reich. They were still afraid that increased attention to communications would jeopardise the attack on oil, which, they thought, would produce a much more rapid and direct effect