an Oboe formation or visual bombing by day and the 5 Group technique by night, the G-H formation technique was, therefore, in some respects a more important and at least a complementary develop- ment. When precision attack on German targets in winter weather was contemplated this became fully apparent. The idea that daylight operations over occupied territory might eventually develop into daylight attacks on German targets had been in the mind of the Air Staff in April 1944. It had been mentioned in the Bomber Command directive on day operations on 9th July and at the end of August it began to come to fruition. On 27th August a force of 216 Halifaxes from 4 Group and twenty-seven Mosquitoes and Lancasters from the Pathfinder Force was despatched to attack the oil plant at Homberg in the Ruhr. The bombers were accom- panied by an almost equal number of Spitfires from 10, 11 and 12 Groups of Fighter Command. The first nine of the fighter squadrons made a rendezvous with the bombers near Overflakkee at 17,000 feet. The remaining seven fighter squadrons met the bombers at the target and augmented the escort on the return flight. The only German fighter sighted by the Bomber Command crews was an Me. 110 which was driven off by the Spitfires before it had done any damage. Homberg lay in the most heavily defended area of the Ruhr and intense anti-aircraft fire was encountered in the target area, but its main characteristic was its inaccuracy and none of the bombers in the Pathfinder marking force, or in the large 4 Group gaggle of Halifaxes, was brought down. All the aircraft subsequently returned safely to base. There was five to eight-tenths cloud up to seven thousand feet at the target which could, nevertheless, be seen through gaps from the bombing height. The damage to the plant was some- what scattered, but in places quite severe.1 Such, at least from the point of view of the absence of casualties, was the happy outcome of the first major daylight operation by Bomber