tirlings and Flying Fortresses of the 803rd Squadron, United States Strategic Air Forces, did not make its initial appearance until the night of 5th June 1944 when it was used to mask the approach of the invasion force itself. Mandrel was a device for jamming the German early warning Freyas which were designed to plot the course of the approach- ing bomber stream, and in this capacity it was used after D-Day. It constituted a serious breach in the German early warning system and, therefore, initiated a process which was to be virtually completed by the allied occupation of France. This, however, was only the first of 1 Bomber Command Tactical Planning Committee. First mtg. 18th Feb. 1944. At the second meeting on 9th April, it was even suggested that Bomber Command should revert to its original practice of having no bomber stream at all and of allowing each aircraft to follow its own route. This was rejected owing to the risk from Ground Controlled Interception fighters.  PRECISION BOMBING AT NIGHT 2. The marshalling yards at Juvissy before attack. 3. The marshalling yards at Juvissy after attack on the night of 18th April 1944. many other kinds of jamming which were to come into service in 100 Group during July and the months which followed.1 It may be doubted, nevertheless, whether such tactical innova- tions and radio counter-measures could, in the absence of other and even more important circumstances such as the loss of territory and the loss of fuel supplies, have had a really, or at any rate permanently, crippling effect upon the resourceful German night fighter force. In- deed, the resilience of the latter, as will be seen in the next section, made part of the case for the resumption by Bomber Command of daylight operations. Another part of the same case, namely the greater accuracy which might be expected, was, however, losing much of its force. This was due to the remarkable advances in the techniques of night precision bombing which took place between Mar