, and decisions were taken by the Luftwaffe command which showed little sense or consistency. The He.277, for example, which would have replaced the ill-fated 177, was abandoned just as it became ready for mass production. Even more important was the refusal to proceed with the He.219, which might have been a very effective night fighter if it had been allowed to develop.1 But there were also losses directly due to bombing. Thus, the Ta. 154, a new machine made of wood which was designed to cope with the Mosquito, had to be abandoned partly because the plant which made tegofilm, the special glue which bound together its ply- wood, was destroyed in an attack. Even more important, perhaps, was the prevention by attacks in March and April 1944 of any large num- bers being produced of the new Dornier 335, which, the Germans claimed, was the most original and fastest propeller-driven aircraft produced during the war and the Ta.152, the best conventional fighter aircraft designed for the Luftwaffe.2 Most important of all were the new jet aircraft whose performance, when they first appeared, seemed to make such a serious threat to allied air supremacy. That they did not do so was largely due to the faulty direction of those controlling the industry. They gave little encouragement or help to the firms which were developing jet air- craft until too late to enable them to be mass produced in large quantities. It is unnecessary, however, to survey the details of their development, which finally resulted in the adoption of the twin- engine Me.262 of the Messerschmitt firm rather than the He.280 of App. 49 (xxvii). The United States general survey (Effects of Strategic Bombing) agrees with the British general survey that the losses on the airfields were the fundamental cause of the discrepancy. Amongst other causes suggested were destruction by unskilled ferrying, reporting repaired aircraft twice as new aircraft, loss of aircraft in the retreat from France and Belgium and delib