therefore, not until then that any strictly tactical air operations could occur. The aim of the railway campaign up to that time was to damage the German lines of communication to such an extent that when the land battle was joined the German army would be denied its mobility and flexibility. This, in military terms, was clearly a strategic object, but, in air force terms, it equally clearly was not. The attacks were aimed at the periphery and not the heart of the enemy. They were designed to immobilise the manifestations of his military power and not to strike at its sources. Thus, while it may be incorrect to refer to these operations as tactical, except, as was often to be the case after 6th June, when they were directly connected with an actual battle on the ground, they were certainly not a part of the strategic air offensive and, of course, few of them were against tar- gets in Germany. The most obvious and the most immediate effect of the Overlord air diversion upon the strategic air offensive was to emaciate, and, for a time, almost to eliminate it. This, however, was not the most important effect. The targets associated with the Overlord and flying-bomb air diver- sion had two salient characteristics in common. By comparison with the usual targets in the Battle of Berlin, they were generally small in size and short in the penetrations which they demanded. Although their destruction afforded Germany a respite from the direct pressure of bombing which had so constantly fallen upon her since March 1943, Bomber Command was also given a relief from the dangerously high casualty rate which had been suffered. Many of the Overlord targets were, at least initially, scarcely defended at all and, being of short penetration, they were difficult to cover with the most effective of defences, namely, night fighters. Being so small, they did not in- dividually require the great bomber concentrations which had proved so vulnerable in the later stages of the Battle of Berlin