ds of opera- tion. Moreover, the Mosquito II aircraft with which they were equipped were mostly suffering badly from old age and their opera- tions had to be drastically curtailed so that they could be re-engined with new Merlin 22s. Finally, the equipment carried by these fighters was in many respects unsuitable or inadequate.3 It is, therefore, hardly surprising to find that only the most ex- perienced and determined crews got any worthwhile results. In fact, of the thirty-one German aircraft claimed in this initial period as 1 100 Group Review. Another four were claimed as damaged. It is not possible to discover from German records how many night fighters were in fact destroyed by these Serrate operations, but it is interesting to note that in this period, i.e. from Ist December 1943 to 30th April 1944, the following casualties were sustained by night fighters in Luftflotte Reich and Luftflotte 3 as a result of allied air action: Luftflotte Reich Luftflotte 3 (France and the Low Countries) Destroyed 163 62 15 In air combat On the ground by bombing or straffing 17 225 32 Damaged In air combat 53 2 On the ground by bombing or straffing 79 9 132 I I Losses due to causes other than enemy action, even if sustained on operational flights, have been excluded from the above figures. In other words, these losses represent only the total due to direct allied air action. 2 Another Squadron, 515, was equipped with Mosquito VI aircraft and began opera- tions in March 1944. This was used for intruder operations and it was not equipped with Serrate. 3 The Mark IV A.I., for example, with which they had to make do, was swamped by the Bomber Command stream whenever close escort was attempted, while the number of' blips ' registered in the target area made it virtually impossible to marry the evidence of Serrate to that of A.I. The Mark X ten-centimetre A.I. would have given much better results, but 100 Group was not at this time permitted to use that equipment over enemy territory