ct. 1944, App. 8 (xlii). Air Staff note, 2nd Oct. 1944. 2 Air Staff note, 2nd Oct. 1944, and other papers. 73 depended for execution, in so far as the most destructive element of allied air power was concerned, upon the orders of the operational commander concerned, namely, Sir Arthur Harris, and Sir Arthur Harris, as will also presently be seen, was equally sceptical of both plans. Nor, as the pattern of Bomber Command operations in Octo- ber had shown, was Sir Arthur Harris' scepticism a factor of anything less than the first importance. In the meantime, the directive was felt to be in need not only of observance but also of revision, and on Ist November 1944 a new one was issued by Sir Norman Bottomley and General Spaatz. It closely followed the lines of its predecessor and oil was again accorded the position of 'first priority'. Communications, however, became the only 'second priority' and the wording of the clause showed a signifi- cant change. 'The operations of the Strategic Air Forces based in the United Kingdom are to be directed against enemy lines of com- munication, with particular emphasis upon the Ruhr'. This offered a somewhat more restricted prospect than had been indicated in the corresponding clause of the September directive which, without men- tioning any particular area, had referred to the 'German rail and waterborne transportation systems'. Moreover, the different phrasing of the two clauses was significant. The 'enemy lines of communica- tion' might be taken to imply a largely military and tactical objective, whereas the 'German . . . transportation systems', perhaps, suggested an industrial and strategic target system. Tank and motor transport production plants and depots which, with ordnance depots, had been included in the second priority of the September directive, were now omitted, with the result that in the new directive there were only two main targets; oil at the first prior- ity and the enemy lines of communication at the second. T