attle of the Ruhr was at its height, 617 Squadron went into action. From its initial precise bombing achievement an almost equally precise marking capacity was eventually evolved and this, by the adoption of Pathfinder Force methods, was in time made available to consider- able elements of the main force. Thus, by stages, through the development of area bombing tech- niques and through other kinds of experiment, Bomber Command developed the operational capacity for highly effective area attacks and highly accurate precision attacks at night. Nor, when the German day fighter force became ineffective, was much modification of tactics required to make excellent daylight bombing possible. In view of the circumstances under which Bomber Command entered the war, in view of the slowness with which its initial defects were recognised and in view of the strength of the German defences, it is surprising that this operational versatility was achieved, not so late in the war, but that it was achieved at all. The success was due to a combination of ingenious tactics, some of them stemming from the Pathfinder Force, to the provision of remarkable target finding devices such as Gee, H2S and Oboe, to the introduction of effective pyrotechnic bombs and of much improved destructive ones such as the incendiary clusters, the heavy high-explosive bombs and later the special Wallis weapons. It was also due to the development of first-class aircraft, among which the Lancaster and the Mosquito were outstanding. But this conjunction of tactical scientific and engineering genius would have been of little avail had it not been for the inspired leadership of Sir Arthur Harris and the enduring courage both of the good and of the less-good crews. In addition to early neglect, there was, however, another major factor which greatly delayed the operational success of Bomber Com- mand. This was the German air defence. The German air defences made daylight bombing impossible for Bomber Command for th