ished to abandon this makeshift defence and wait until a force of 2,000 fighters could be accumulated and sufficiently fuelled to make a devastating attack on a large bomber fleet. But, even if this expedient had not been abandoned, it could never have had great success, for the aviation spirit did not exist to provide the necessary training for so difficult a manœuvre. Some hope was given by the acquisition of the jet fighters and there were grave fears about this new weapon in allied circles. But these too were greatly weakened by the deficiency in oil. Though there was a sufficiency of the special oil required for them until a later date, some of it was of inferior quality, owing to the damage caused in the refineries, and the pilots had lacked sufficient training in conventional aircraft and were unable to make the best use of their new machines. It was noticed how rarely and how late in the offensive they attacked the United States formations and this attitude, so different from that usually shown by the Luftwaffe,1 could only have been due to the fact that they were inadequately trained. 1 Thus, the allied air fleets, except on rare occasions, had almost complete air ascendancy both by day and by night, and it was this ascendancy that enabled them to pursue with such success the other strategic objectives of this period as well as the attack on oil. The attack on communications and those much less important but still useful ones on aircraft construction, tank factories and depots and submarine yards, were made much more effective because of it. The area bombing too would, also, have been less destructive and more costly if this situation had not been created. In addition, the reduc- tion in the supply of explosives caused some restriction on the anti- aircraft artillery. Their gunners were ordered only to use their shells when the aircraft were immediately overhead, and they felt confident of causing casualties. For this reason, though the main plants were sti