the German fighter forces had had more training and fuel, though it must also be remembered that some of this fuel was destroyed by the bombers of the tactical forces or prevented from reaching its destination by the attack on communications. But the Russian air force had not previously established such complete air superiority and their attacks must have been assisted by the growing weakness of the German fighters. There can be no doubt also but that the mobility of the German armies was much impaired by the lack of motor fuel. By the end of 1944 the motorised supply columns of the infantry divisions were forced to use horse transport and armoured divisions lacked sufficient fuel to move as they wished. Diesel-fuelled vehicles had to tow petrol- fuelled vehicles and much time was thus lost. It is generally recog- nised that the lack of fuel was one important cause of the failure of the Ardennes offensive. At any rate it is claimed that the centres of resistance such as Bastogne, so stubbornly defended by the United States soldiers, would certainly have fallen quickly if the tanks had been able to move with the speed which a plentiful supply of fuel could have given them. Some of this difficulty may have been caused by the attack on communications, but the number of oil units allotted to the Panzer divisions was quite inadequate in such a terrain and in such weather as they had to contend with. This is the classical case of a direct and immediate effect in the West. There is another for the East. Both Jodl and Speer insisted that the Russians could not have broken out of the Baranov bridgehead and captured Upper Silesia if 1,500 tanks accumulated for its defence had not been incapable of tactical manœuvre because of the lack of fuel. Speer added that a similar effect had been produced during the Ardennes offensive and, indeed, from December onwards on the fighting efficiency of all the German forces, because they could not use even such armaments as could still be s