t was undoubtedly the most important strategic problem of the bombing offensive. Naval doctrine, based upon long naval history and notably upon the brilliant analysis of the foremost naval historian, Admiral Mahan, clearly established that the principal maritime aim in war must be the achievement of the command of the sea. This was a primary aim in the sense that its fulfilment was an indispensable prerequisite to the achievement of ulterior maritime aims such as the enforcement of blockade, the transport of troops and the protection of trade. More- over, the same experience showed that the principal means of achieving this aim lay in the destruction or neutralisation of the enemy fleet. The policy of attempting ulterior strategic aims while evading the enemy fleet-the policy of the guerre de course-could be demonstrated never to have achieved decisive results. The intro- duction of submarines, torpedoes and mines had changed the nature of fleets and the rise of air power had qualified the means of command- ing the sea, but the basic principle held good. In military terms, the same principle had an even more obvious application for the whole tradition of armies lay in their direct battles with each other. Thus, in spite of the apparent variations offered by the naval guerre de course and its military equivalents, the primary aims of navies and armies were clearly established as the destruction in battle of the enemy armies and navies. Only thus could the stra- tegic objects of naval and military warfare be obtained against  CONCLUDING SURVEY 292 THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE resolute first-class powers. This well-established doctrine depended upon a simple fact. Ships were a defence against ships and armies were a defence against armies. Air power seemed to offer a somewhat different prospect which grew from the belief that the aeroplane was not a defence against the aeroplane. If this was so, air superiority was likely to be established, not as a result of air battle