he destruction of Ger- man oil production. This too would immobilise the German armed forces and eventually German industries as well. The immediate decision between Sir Arthur Tedder's railway plan and General Spaatz's oil plan, therefore, came to depend upon the immediate re- quirements of Overlord and so upon the verdict of General Eisenhower himself. That is why the strategic air offensive against Germany can- not be considered in isolation from the Overlord campaign.1 The historic occasion of General Eisenhower's decision was a meet- ing held on 25th March 1944. Sir Charles Portal was in the chair and among those present were General Eisenhower, Sir Arthur Tedder, General Spaatz, Sir Arthur Harris, Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory and representatives of the War Office, the Joint Intelligence Staff and the Ministry of Economic Warfare. Sir Arthur Tedder opened the dis- cussion by rehearsing his arguments in support of the communica- tions campaign, but in the debate which followed his views were sub- jected to severe criticism. The War Office representative doubted whether the bombing of French railways would have any marked effect upon German military movement largely because, as was emphasised by Sir Andrew Noble of the Joint Intelligence Staff, the Germans would allow French industry to starve before they permitted any interruptions to their troop trains. Thus, French industry would act as an expendable reserve protecting the real objective of the attack. If, however, the communications plan was to be condemned, a superior alternative would have to be proposed. Everyone knew, of course, what was in General Spaatz's mind, but when Mr. Lawrence of the Ministry of Economic Warfare had completed his contribution to the discussion, there was no prospect of these views being adopted. Mr. Lawrence suggested that the Germans had considerable reserves of oil on the Western front and that the results of a strategic offensive against oil production would not have any signific