iciently co-ordinated or able to act with the necessary rapidity. In July, therefore, a new organisation was set up in the Joint Oil Targets Committee by the Air Staff and the United States Strategic air forces, composed of representatives of the Bomber Operations and Intelligence Directorates of the two staffs, M.E.W., the Enemy Objectives Unit of the United States Embassy, and the War Office. It was recognised that this committee was too far away from the Fifteenth Air Force, which was playing an important part in the campaign, to advise it effectively. The Committee, therefore, sent experts to Italy to augment the machinery already set up there for target information and appreciation of results; later the same thing was done to assist the reconnaissance and photographic work on which to a large extent the whole success of the offensive depended. For during this period photographic intelligence became of even greater importance.1 Fortunately the joint British and United States organisation for this service had been able to resist the attempt to divide them made by Lt .- Col. Eliot Roosevelt and in May was reorganised so as to make it even more effective.2 In that month a Joint Photographic Reconnaissance organisation was set up to allocate the use of the reconnaissance aircraft of the two countries to the most essential needs and at the same time the Central Inter- pretation Unit was given the prefix 'Allied' and enlarged to serve, 1 The information in this and the following two paragraphs is largely derived from Volume II of an Air Historical Branch Narrative on Photographic Reconnaissance and from the Programme of Work of the J.O.T.C., 6th July 1944. 2 See above, Vol. II, p. 222. No one appears to have been better satisfied with this result than Lt .- Col. Roosevelt himself; for he pays a warm tribute to the British recon- naissance experts in his book, As He Saw It, (New York, 1946), p. 215. 211 as it had always done, both the Royal Air Force and the Eighth Air