elds, and Yagodnik Airfield. The Tirpitz Log, 5 Group News, Nov. 1944, Investigation into sinking of Tirpitz by British Bombing Research Mission. The excellent published account in No. 5 Bomber Group, pp. 203-215, has also been used, though in some respects it differs from the above narrative. 2 One of which led on 29th October to an actual attack. Low cloud at about 8,000 feet covered the Tirpitz, but thirty-two Tallboys were dropped by 617 and 9 Squadrons, whose crews aimed through partial gaps in the cloud. One aircraft subsequently crashed in Sweden, but the crew survived. It is not clear whether any damage was done to the Tirpitz on this occasion. 3 O.R.B. (617 and 9 Sqdns.), 12th Nov. 1944.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 196 THE OPERATIONAL CLIMAX Soon afterwards the Tirpitz turned over and became a total wreck. The first Tallboy to find its mark had struck amidships and caused a list to starboard. A second direct hit caused the ship to roll over into a severe port list. So terrifying was the experience of those on board that no clear account can be reconstructed of what fol- lowed, but it seems that a sudden internal explosion tore a hole in the battleship from keel to deck and almost at once she turned turtle. Of the 1,900 men on board, 1,000 were killed or injured and a great ship had been disposed of in a final blow which cost Bomber Com- mand one aircraft and not a single life.1 In addition to this salient contribution to the war at sea, Bomber Command carried out a number of other operations against naval targets in the last quarter of 1944. Port areas and shipping at Ijmuiden, in Oslo fjord and at Gdynia were bombed and devastating attacks, sometimes with Tallboy bombs, were made on submarine and E-Boat pens at Bergen, Ijmuiden, Rotterdam and Trondheim. But the effort devoted by Bomber Command to these and other naval targets was small by comparison with that which continued to be harnessed to the direct support of the armies in the field. These operations, th