tion it is intended only to chronicle the operational achievement itself. Among the great victories achieved will be found most of the highlights of the whole offensive including the complete obliteration of a number of oil plants, the widespread destruction of communications, including the constant breaching of the Dortmund-Ems Canal, and the felling of the Bielefeld viaduct, the ultimate despatch keel upwards of the German battleship Tirpitz and the vast havoc of the continuing area offensive culminating in the devastation of Dresden. Bomber Com- mand operated in darkness and in daylight, in foul weather and in fair and in strengths varying from that of the whole Command to that of single squadrons. Throughout this variety the tide of success was virtually unchecked. Occasional failures and casualties there inevitably were, but the frustrations and even to a considerable extent the hardships of the past were things of the past. This virtual operational omnipotence of Bomber Command had, no doubt, in some respects, been delayed by faulty decisions and S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-N 183  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 184 THE OPERATIONAL CLIMAX deductions in the past, but the limitations of operations in earlier months and years should not be judged in the perspective of the ultimate triumphs. Lord Tedder's observation which is recorded as the first motto for this chapter was afforded a particularly clear reinforcement in advance by Sir Arthur Harris. 'In the last three months of 1944,' he records, 'a greater weight of bombs was dropped than in the whole of 1943.' 1 In these last three months of 1944 Bomber Command, in fact, discharged more than 163,000 tons of bombs by comparison with the 40,000 tons it had dropped in the corresponding period of 1943 and the slightly more than eight thousand tons of the last three months in 1942.ª Fifty-three per cent of this enormous effort was devoted to area attacks upon large industrial cities. Fourteen per cent of it was aimed at oil targ