omber Com- mand. The same is possibly true of Wuppertal, while at Krefeld there was no great area attack, but similar results were produced by a num- ber of smaller attacks by both air forces and in the later part of the period by fighter bomber attacks. In Remscheid also much of the loss of production was attributed to a failure in communications, though probably as much the local connections as the long haul ones. 1 On the whole, the evidence available suggests that in the Ruhr itself the area attacks produced the greater part of the loss of production, but a less proportion in the Rhineland area outside the Ruhr. Most of the neces- sary damage had been done by the end of February and the area bombing after that date was for the most part unnecessary. But in Germany, outside the Ruhr and Rhineland, it seems clear that from September onwards the main cause of the loss of production was the deterioration in communications which deprived industry of the necessary coal, raw materials and components. The investiga- tions at Hamburg and Berlin revealed this fact and they were con- firmed by those of Hanover, Kassel and Darmstadt.2 This is rather a small sample on which to base conclusions, though the towns in- vestigated are in widely separated areas. But they were in the main confirmed by the investigations of the separate industries discussed later in this chapter, as well as by the reasoning already developed in the last section on communications. In the case of oil and, in the final months, on submarine construction, direct attacks were as important as the attack on communications. But generally conditions in the rest of Germany were different from those in the Ruhr. Though on occasion great damage was done by an area attack, there was not the same concentration as in the Ruhr nor was there the same destruc- tion of gas and electricity. Thus, the direct damage was not caused sufficiently rapidly to forestall the much greater loss caused by the failure in communicati