mburg, Rositz, Bremen, the Ebano and Rhenania Ossag refineries at Harburg, Misburg, Dortmund, Monheim, Reisholz, Vallo and Salzbergen. Two attacks were made on Heide. Three attacks were made on Misburg. Six attacks, involving the despatch of 365 sorties, were made on oil storage depots. They were distributed as follows. One attack each was made on Dülmen, Farge, Hamburg and Regensburg. Two attacks were made on Rüthen. O.R.S. Nt. and Day Raid Reports, Bomber Command O.R.B., C.S.T.C. Oil Committee. 201 out a formation attack through the overcast and dropped 755 tons of high-explosive bombs among which were one 12,000-lb., two 8,000-lb. and a hundred and fifty 4,000-lb. High Capacity bombs. Obviously this was a most destructive load, but it was also very accurately placed. Subsequent daylight reconnaissance photographs showed that the plant had been left in a state of devastation. There was no fighter opposition and all the Lancasters returned, though nine of them had been damaged by flak.1 On 24th March, clear weather over western Germany was forecast and a Pathfinder Force controlled Oboe ground marking attack by Lancasters of I Group was planned against the Harpenerweg refinery at Dortmund. Nine Lancasters and six Mosquitoes of the Pathfinder Force were despatched to lead eighty Lancasters from I Group. Four of the Lancasters made abortive sorties, but all the other ninety- one aircraft reached the target and dropped about 425 tons of bombs on it, including seventy-nine 4,000 pounders. The ground marking was clearly visible just short of the aiming point and the bombing was highly concentrated. Later the target became obscured by smoke and the master bomber instructed the crews to bomb the upwind edge of the black oily smoke which eventually rose to an immense height. Photographic reconnaissance showed that the plant had been put out of action but it had not been so severely damaged as was originally hoped. Much of the attack, from which three of the I Group Lancast