ional service with Bomber Command since 1942 and both were the product of somewhat unexpected circumstances. The Lancaster was undoubtedly the most effective heavy bomber of the Second World War in Europe and in many respects it bore favourable comparison with the American B.29 which was designed later and played a part in the war against Japan. The Lancaster had the range to reach virtually any target in Germany from British bases. With relatively minor modification, it was able to lift the 22,000-lb. Grand Slam 307 bomb. In flight it had no particular vices and in adversity it was remarkably robust. The Mosquito was the result of a private venture by De Havilland and was only slowly recognised as a potential bomber and even more slowly made into one. This was partly due to its extraordinary versatility, which enabled it to be used as a night fighter, a vehicle of photographic reconnaissance and a bomber. As a bomber it had a remarkable performance. In its later versions it was able to carry a 4,000-lb. bomb to Berlin and then return to a British base. It carried no armament, but because of its great speed and the altitude at which it could fly, it suffered negligible battle casualties. Its ability to reach 30,000 feet and more was crucial in the use of Oboe, for the range of that device was dependent upon the altitude of the aircraft using it. Its manœuvrability and speed were no less vital in the development of low-level marking techniques. Without the Mosquito, the Pathfinder Force technique of Oboe marking could not have been evolved nor could the 5 Group technique of visual marking have become so effective. The Lancaster was much less manœuvrable and could not reach a remotely comparable altitude. Indeed, and in many respects, the Lancaster bore unfavourable comparison with the Mosquito. Its relatively low speed and large size made it an easy target for German night fighters and very many Lancasters were shot down for that reason. Moreover, the loss of a Lanca