difficulties arose, sometimes for the whole force. This was liable to be more than usually dangerous, especially as the German fighter defences over France grew stronger and more efficient. The very heavy casualties suffered at Mailly-Le-Camp on the night of 3rd May and at Lille on that of 10th May, which have already been mentioned, were primarily due to hitches in the mark- ing procedure which delayed the attack and kept the bombing force in the target area for much longer than had been planned. On each occasion, this enabled the German fighters to get to the target while the main concentrations were still over it.3 Thus, even against lightly defended targets of shallow penetration the 5 Group technique was liable to expose the bombing force to more than the usual hazards of 1 In these attacks the average Oboe marking altitude was 28,600 feet. Altitude, of course, had an adversely cumulative effect upon any inherent aiming errors. 2 For the results of the attack on Juvissy see the photographs facing p. 151. 3 O.R.S.(B.C.) Report, 14th July 1944, Nt. Raid Reports. In the Mailly-Le-Camp operation there were two aiming points, one of which was allotted to 5 Group and the other to I Group. Fifteen of the 173 Lancasters despatched by 5 Group and twenty-seven of the 173 despatched by I Group did not return. Two more of the I Group Lancasters were damaged beyond repair by German fighters. The delay at Mailly-Le-Camp was due to confusion between the two aiming points. That at Lille was occasioned by the necessity of re-marking the target, after the initial markers had been blown out. 157 night operations. Against more formidable targets of deeper penetra- tion it necessarily had to be pruned of some of its refinements. Towards the end of April there were three 5 Group attacks against major German targets, and though Lancasters from I Group con- tributed on each occasion to the bombing forces, these were real and severe tests of the extent to which the 5 Group precision te