damage. These considerations were the underlying reason for Sir Charles Portal's acute anxiety to enlist Sir Arthur Harris' wholehearted support for the plan. He knew well enough that such formidable difficulties could only be overcome if the Commander-in-Chief's full powers of drive and determination were applied to them, and, as he had himself categorically stated, any failure in this direction 'might well prolong the war by several months at least'. If, however, Sir Charles Portal ever fully believed that his efforts of November 1944 had produced any real change of heart in Sir Arthur Harris, he must soon have become disillusioned. By 12th December 1944, Sir Arthur Harris seems to have found it possible to overcome his agreement with Sir Charles Portal of the previous month 'about the urgency and effectiveness of the oil plan'. In a letter of that date to Sir Charles Portal, he announced that his Operational Research Section had reached the conclusion that the completion of the oil plan would require the despatch of some 56,500 sorties and the discharge of 226,000 tons of bombs. He went on to remind Sir Charles Portal 'that in the past M.E.W. experts have never failed to overstate their case on "panaceas", e.g. ball-bearings, molybdenum, loco- motives, etc., in so far as, after the battle has been joined and the original targets attacked, more and more sources of supply or other factors unpredicted by M.E.W. have become revealed. The oil plan has already displayed similar symptoms. The benzol plants were an afterthought. I am quite certain that there are dozens more benzol plants of which we are unaware and when and if we knock them all out I am equally certain we shall  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 86 THE REWARD OF DISSENSION eventually be told by M.E.W. that German M.T. is continuing to run sufficiently for their purpose on producer gas, steam, industrial alcohol, etc., etc. However,' he concluded, 'we should be content if we can deprive them of adequate supplies of