ect of months of war. This work is not concerned with the tragic consequences of this failure nor with all the strategic and political factors which con- tributed to it. It is concerned only with one of the elements, namely, the strategic air offensive. All the same, this was a fundamental ele- ment, for it seems at any rate possible that the action of heavy bombers could have decided the issue in the sense of enabling other forces to end the war in the first months of 1945. The opportunity was singular. Tremendous striking power was available. Undreamt-of versatility had been acquired. Command of the air had been won. Huge armies stood ready to exploit the injuries which could be inflicted. Already, even after the limited effort which had been devoted to it, the German oil position was one of acute crisis. The bombing offensive could not, of course, be concentrated ex- clusively upon anything. Some division of effort between the strategic and tactical roles was still inevitable. Even a measure of defensive bombing might be required and would certainly be asked, for the Germans, even at this stage, led the world in the development of high-speed flight, of unmanned missiles, which found such a sinister 75  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 76 THE REWARD OF DISSENSION expression in the V2 rocket, and of submarines. Moreover, the weather would, as always, present difficulties which were likely to become greater as winter approached, and the German defences, though mastered, could not be ignored. Even the full application of Sir Arthur Tedder's common denominator theory could not, in prac- tice, prevent a degree of dispersal. Nevertheless, the opportunity for concentration was greater than ever before. Further radar aids and other kinds of device were coming either into service or into more general service and they marked another advance in the struggle with the weather and in the effort to increase the accuracy of bombing. The German day fighter force had been largely neutralise