e above, Vol. II, p. 153. 2 This led to the decision to form 100 Group in November 1943. 129 the autumn of 1943 the method of concentrated interception at the target began to give way to the aim of somewhat more dispersed in- terception on the route to the target. This was made possible by the fact that the average bomber stream was growing larger and more concentrated and, therefore, also better defined. It meant that the fighter controller, instead of sending the bulk of his force to the target, and possibly the wrong target, could feed it piecemeal into the bom- ber stream whose course could easily be followed by the radio trans- missions which it inevitably emitted. Thus, the German night fighter force was well prepared to intercept Bomber Command even when it adopted the most confusing diversionary tactics. This, as Sir Arthur Harris clearly realised, was a most grave development, for it seemed to be the ultimate counter to the bomber tactics of concentrated saturation, and this, indeed, it proved to be for as long as the German night fighter force lasted as an effective operational weapon. Yet between March and July 1944, during which time the German night fighters continued to operate with great efficiency, Bomber Command was able to carry out its directive and at the same time to avoid casualties which were more than could be sustained. This was, as has already been explained, because the nature of the Bomber Command task in that period called for the division of the force into a number of virtually independent components. The single great bomber stream did not reappear after the Nuremberg action at the end of March 1944. Instead the German fighter force was con- fronted with a series of smaller bomber streams proceeding at the same time, in different directions to different targets and often not seeking deep penetrations. Thus, while the German fighter force still had the opportunity, which it often took, of inflicting very heavy casualties upon elements of