including the smaller benzol plants, and still the number of targets was decreasing. Finally only the smaller distillation units and some benzol plants were left together with the supply that came from the Hungarian fields and such refineries as were still running. There are few reliable statistics for this period, but no aviation spirit was produced and the other fuels were in very short supply. The German armies and the Luft- waffe were limited to the stocks in the depots. In the final stages of the war these were also subjected to devastating attacks which had important results. These depots were, as has been seen, of two kinds, the permanent depots with underground tanks and the more numerous smaller depots and dumps of the fighting forces fed by the former. The Oil Committee had not thought at the beginning of the offensive that the underground depots were likely to be very profitable targets. But, in the course of the invasion, the tactical forces, assisted to some extent by the strategic forces, had attacked the depots in France with great success, and as a result a number of attacks were made on the main depots in Germany. It had become apparent that, while the underground storage tanks themselves could not be injured, important damage could be done to the installations above ground and the transport facilities. These attacks were not, however, per- sisted in systematically, because they were not given a high enough priority until late in the autumn and were then suspended because of the claims of what were considered to be more important targets during the attack on the Ruhr communications. In the closing stages of the war, however, the depots were bombed repeatedly, mainly by the tactical forces, and with important results on the last German efforts of resistance. 2 Speer showed by his letter to Hitler in January that he had now lost all hope of increasing the supply of oil since no production could 1 Report Speer to Hitler, 19th Jan. 1945, see App. 32 (v)