h would be produced by the alternative bombing policies. Any estimate of these different points of view must depend on an assessment of the intelligence available to those that held them and the actual results of the final offensive. This appraisal is made in the third chapter of this part. Since the method by which the intelligence was analysed and conveyed to those directing the attack was radi- cally changed in this period, some account of this process is given in the first section. While the machinery set up in London was in many ways more efficient and more rapid than its predecessors, it had a rival intelligence system in that set up at the headquarters of the allied armies on the Continent. Both systems were based on close co- operation between British and United States experts and the con- troversies which arose were not due to national preoccupations or prejudices but to the differences between the various elements in the combined offensive of the land and air forces on Germany. Such con- troversies naturally led to varying appreciations of what had been done and what ought to be done. The respective merits of these appreciations are discussed in the survey of results in the last three sections of this chapter. 11 The problem of ascertaining what these results were becomes especially difficult in this period for two reasons. In the first place they were produced by a combination of pressures exercised by both the air and land forces, and it is sometimes impossible to distinguish the contribution of each to the whole. Secondly, the problem is com- plicated by the chaotic condition into which Germany was reduced during the final stages of the offensive. This tended amongst other things to affect the position of Speer in the control of armaments pro- duction and to bring about the introduction of new devices in the vain effort to ward off the onslaught from the air. This effect is briefly S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-B  INTRODUCTION 8 B described in the second par