ped, two Lancasters failed to return.2 Meanwhile, Bomber Command was receiving the last and the greatest of its war-time weapons. On 21st February 1945 it was decided to expand 617 Squadron from two to three flights. One of these was to retain its Tallboy Lancasters and the other two were to be equipped with Lancasters capable of carrying the new twenty-two thousand pound earthquake bomb known as the Grand Slam. This ten-ton monster had undergone a long and difficult birth. Its designer, Mr. B. N. Wallis, had foreseen the need for such a weapon in the early days of the war and though his proposals, which included 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Report. Immediate Interpretation Report, 23rd Jan. 1945, Supplement, 5th Feb. 1945. 2 O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Report. Supplementary Report on Night Photographs. This was one of the occasions on which 3 Group operated with the main force and not in- dependently as a G-H force. 203 plans for a huge aircraft to carry the bomb, had been encouraged by Sir Henry Tizard, who was then the Scientific Adviser to the Chief of the Air Staff, they had eventually been rejected by the Air Staff on the grounds that there was no scientific case 'in favour of a bomb larger than could be carried on existing aeroplanes.' This, in view of the potentiality of the Lancaster, was an unfortunate decision, but it was, perhaps, an inevitable one because nobody, including Mr. Wallis and even its designer Mr. Roy Chadwick, fully foresaw what this remarkable aircraft would be able to do.1 After the success of the rotating weapon which breached the walls of the Möhne and Eder dams in May 1943, more attention was paid to Mr. Wallis' seemingly impossible ideas and this led to the produc- tion of a scaled-down version of the ten-ton bomb which was known as the Tallboy. The success of this weapon in 1944 has already been noticed in several places and it will be remembered that it was this bomb which made the destruction of the Tirpitz possible. Plans for the development