rry the evidence of Serrate to that of A.I. The Mark X ten-centimetre A.I. would have given much better results, but 100 Group was not at this time permitted to use that equipment over enemy territory. I47 destroyed or damaged, six were credited to one crew, three to another, two each to five crews and one each to twelve crews. In other words, in a period of three months, the efforts of three squadrons resulted in claims by only seventeen crews.1 This situation was justly regarded by Sir Arthur Harris as intoler- able. In a strong letter of 7th April 1944 to the Vice-Chief of the Air Staff, he observed that Bomber Command had only two means of 'making any impression on the German night fighter force'. The first was provided by the armament carried in the bombers themselves, but the ·303 guns were not sufficiently powerful to inflict 'serious losses on the enemy' and the vision from the turrets at night was 'so bad that our gunners have not a fighting chance'. Even if this arma- ment could be improved by the introduction of automatic equip- ment,2 Sir Arthur Harris believed that 'the chances against the bomber would still be too great to give a reasonable chance of success against the enemy fighter defences, which will, no doubt, under the tremendous pressure of events, continue steadily to improve in efficiency'. The second means was the long-range fighter offensive, but, Sir Arthur Harris pointed out, 'the small effort by night fighter aircraft, which is all that 100 Group can at present provide for the support of the bombers, is not large enough to have even a serious nuisance value against the German night fighter force'. Sir Arthur Harris said that he had long foreseen and pointed out that the strength of the German air defences would eventually reach a point 'at which night bombing attacks by existing methods and types of heavy bomber would involve percentage casualty rates which could not in the long run be sustained. We have not', he said, 'yet reached that p