to have used similar tactics with Himmler. At any rate he avoided, so far as he could, a head-on collision with the Party in which Hitler would have decided against him. Even so Bormann and Goebbels demanded in September that he should be 1 Speer Interrogation, 25th June 1945. '[Hitler] had a good knowledge of technical matters, even in details. Above all, he had a good technical sense. Therefore up to Spring, 1944, the decisions he made in technical matters were clear cut. Only when the situation of the war drove him badly into a corner did his decisions become unclear and illogical.' Others (e.g. Geist, who looked after technical development) had not such a good opinion. 2 Speer Interrogation, 2nd Aug. 1945. A last optimistic speech to his colleagues was made on 13th January 1945 which Speer said he regretted and that he had been highly burdened at the time and had the text prepared for him by others. The speech was a laudatory account of production in 1944 and implied that it could still continue. He gave equivocal answers to the questions which followed the speech. Text of speech and sub- sequent discussion. Speer Docs. (Hamburg Series). 3 Speech by Speer, 24th June 1944, Speer Docs. (Hamburg Series).  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 220 THE GERMAN RESPONSE TO BOMBING forced to resign. 1 But Speer was in a sense indispensable. Hitler must have known that no one else could carry out his work with the same efficiency. And finally Speer had a loyalty to Hitler, never completely lost even when he realised Hitler's basest qualities. In this ambivalent attitude towards his master Speer remained until the end of January 1945. Then Speer's career became so melodramatic that it is one of the more curious stories of this extraordinary time. But as it only affects in a remote way the strategic bombing offensive it need not be related in any detail here. Suffice it to say that by devious methods he defied his leader and helped to prevent the execution of the 'scorched earth' poli