ter a series 1 A.H.B. Monograph on Armament. 2 Tallboys were already being produced in the U.S.A. 3 A.H.B. Monograph on Armament.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 204 THE OPERATIONAL CLIMAX of abortive attempts, fifteen Lancasters of 617 Squadron, a Mosquito of 627 Squadron and four Oboe Mosquitoes of the Pathfinder Force were despatched. Fourteen of the Lancasters carried Tallboys and to the fifteenth, which flew without a wireless operator or mid-upper gunner, was attached a Grand Slam. The Oboe Mosquitoes were to lay down proximity marking which was especially necessary in view of the expected haze in the target area. The 617 Squadron Lancasters began to take off from Woodhall Spa just before a quarter to two in the afternoon and at about half past four they all reached the Bielefeld Viaduct where the Oboe marking could be seen on the ground some three hundred yards to the south-south-west of the target. While one of the Lancasters was opening its bomb doors, the Tallboy fell off. Another crew lost their bearings on the run up and dropped a Tallboy by mistake on a cross- roads some 750 yards from the target. A third brought its Tallboy back owing to a breakdown in the bomb-sight at the last moment. The remaining eleven Tallboy Lancasters made extremely accurate attacks and several of the crews claimed direct hits. The Grand Slam Lancaster, flown by Squadron Leader C. C. Calder, was one of the first to attack and the crew believed that their ten-ton bomb had undershot the viaduct by thirty yards. Another crew attacking five seconds later reported that the 'Special Stores fell on or very close.' A third crew which attacked within half a minute of Squadron Leader Calder thought that the big bomb had 'made a very near miss on the southern end of the viaduct.' All the Lancasters attacked from between eleven thousand and just over thirteen thousand feet where the cloud base was. The Grand Slam was dropped from 11,965 feet, which was much lower than ideal for a penetration bomb.