of the German people was not broken nor even significantly impaired and the effect on war pro- duction was remarkably small. It was not only that the damage could be repaired more readily than had been supposed. The German war economy was more resilient than estimated and the German people calmer, more stoical and much more determined than anticipated. No one can say what Germany might have achieved or attempted had there been no area offensive in this period. All that can be said is that in spite of the prolonged and latterly heavy pressure of it, Ger- man war production increased and increased again, that the German people remained loyal and obedient and that the German armed forces continued to fight with great bravery and with no less efficiency than before. Nor did the selective and, in so far as they succeeded, the precision attacks both of Bomber Command and, on a larger scale, of the Eighth Air Force, achieve any better results. In com- bination, the various elements of the offensive sapped some of the reserve within the German war economy and enforced some measures of dispersal notably in the aircraft industry. Both results made Germany more vulnerable to later and more efficient strategic air attack. These achievements were meagre and disappointing but they were the prelude to something far greater. In the last year of the war Bomber Command played a major part in the almost complete des- truction of whole vital segments of German oil production, in the virtual dislocation of her communications system and in the elimina- tion of other important activities. Moreover, the continuing area 289 offensive, apart from assuming almost unmanageable proportions in many towns, contributed important by-products to the achievement of the main plans for oil and transport. These direct results had a decisive effect upon the outcome of the war and there were also con- tinuing and accelerating indirect results which were scarcely less important. Moreover, this was achieved