le under the present system', Sir Charles Portal stated, 'for the Air Staffs to keep the close day-to-day control of the activities of the bomber forces which is essential for the effective implementation of the agreed policy.' There was', Sir Charles Portal said, 'a striking illustration of the need for centralising control of all strategic bomber forces once again under the Combined Chiefs of Staff acting through the Air Staffs', and this, he suggested, was 'provided by the present offensive against enemy oil targets'. Sir Charles Portal continued: 'It has become abundantly clear over the past few months that the enemy is faced with an increasingly critical situation in regard to his oil supplies. To exploit his difficulties fully it is essential that the attack of his oil resources be pressed home at maximum intensity and on the widest scale possible. Any relaxation in the tempo of our attacks against his oil installations will provide opportunity for rehabilitation and dispersal. On the other hand, a successful campaign against enemy oil at this time may well have repercussions upon the enemy's ability to fight on the French, Italian and Russian fronts which may prove decisive. To ensure that the bomber effort available for the 59 attack of the enemy's oil supplies is directed to full effect, it is essential that control should be exercised directly through the British and American Air Staffs, who have jointly acquired the experience of planning and developing the Combined Bomber Offensive over the past two years. The weaknesses now appear- ing in the enemy's deteriorating economic structure can be exploited most rapidly and effectively in this way.' Moreover, Sir Charles Portal observed, 'rapid developments in the strategic situation are now taking place. It may become desirable in the immediate future', he said, no doubt with his memorandum of August 1944 in mind, 'to apply the whole of the strategic bomber effort to the direct attack of German morale.' The ps