f the United States Army Air Forces, General Arnold. In neither Britain nor America were the heavy bombers ever given anything like unlimited priority and their operations were by no means always confined to the strategic role. On the contrary, the authoritative view was always that the war would end with hard fighting on land and that, to quote the words of Sir Charles Portal in 1942, 'the German fighting Services will retain their discipline to the last.' 1 The possibility of this view proving to be correct was not, of course, rendered less probable by the allied production and allocation strategy which was its corollary. Since times as remote as Dunkirk and Pearl Harbour, Britain and America had been raising, training and equipping with all the paraphernalia of surface combat, large armies on the continental scale. Enormous resources of industry, manpower and shipping space were thus consumed and, to some extent, denied to the build-up of the strategic bomber forces. By the beginning of 1944, the great allied military forces were ready or nearly ready for the conflict. Some were already in action. The Russian armies had won many great victories and were still advanc- ing. In the strategic air offensive, Bomber Command had fought the Battles of the Ruhr and of Hamburg and was concluding the Battle of Berlin. The Eighth Air Force had intervened in daylight in im- posing and increasing strength, but Germany had neither capitulated now shown evident signs of collapse. The launching of Overlord, there- fore, became inevitable, and it seemed obvious that if the decision in the war was to be determined by the alliance, rather than by the Russians alone, it would depend upon the outcome of Overlord. This strategy, decided upon long before, made Overlord into the supreme operation whose requirements, whether on land, at sea or in the air, dominated all other considerations. It was this which made the view- point of General Eisenhower the most influential in the military c