ndly, that to depart from this policy at this time would have the effect of neutralising all the achievement of his force in 1942 and 1943 and of allowing Germany a breathing-space in which to effect a general in- dustrial recovery. This itself would, he considered, reduce the pros- 25 pects of success for Overlord.1 The latter point, which was a strategic argument, was highly con- troversial and we have seen the extent to which doubts as to the effectiveness of the general area bombing offensive were growing. These doubts had not been diminished by the course of the Battle of Berlin. Nor had confidence in Sir Arthur Harris' strategic arguments been increased by the somewhat extravagant claims and forecasts to which he had committed himself in the course of 1943. The former point, which was based upon an operational appreciation, was, how- ever, more difficult to challenge, for the Commander-in-Chief was, at least in theory, the sovereign judge alike of what Bomber Command could do and what it could not do. In his analysis of 13th January 1944, Sir Arthur Harris had argued that Bomber Command was a force which had become specialised for the destruction of 'industrial centres'. He had then proceeded to show how, in his view, it was impossible to adapt the weapon to any other role. Daylight operations, he said, were 'absolutely out of the question and could in no circumstances be undertaken'. This was because the Lancasters and Halifaxes lacked the necessary ceiling, armour and armament, and because the crews lacked the specialised training, especially in the tactics of formation flying. Thus, Sir Arthur Harris argued, operations must continue to be carried out at night and at night, he sought to show, the bombing results would be rela- tively inaccurate and appropriate only to area attack on large targets. He regarded Oboe Mark I as unreliable. The Mark II apparatus, known as Album Leaf, was better and he judged that by its use marker bombs could be dropped within th