RD.' General Eisenhower's position in the Mediterranean had, they said, been fundamentally different from that which he ought now to occupy in western Europe. In the Mediterranean all forces had been under his command, but in the United Kingdom there 1 Churchill to Sinclair and C.O.S. from Sextant, 6th Jan. 1944. The Prime Minister, who was attending the Cairo Conference, had been approached by General Eisenhower and his Chief of Staff, General Bedell-Smith, on the matter. 2 Sinclair to Churchill, 7th Jan. 1944. The last suggestion merely confused the issue. No one had suggested that General Spaatz or Sir Arthur Harris should be removed from their commands. The problem was not to find commanders with experience of strategic bombing but to find a channel by which the heavy bomber effort could be related to the needs of Overlord. In any case, Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory had less experience of bombing than Sir Arthur Tedder. Incidentally, General Spaatz had always been a fighter com- mander until he took over the Eighth Air Force.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 18 BASES OF VICTORY AND DISSENSION were forces such as Bomber Command, Air Defence of Great Britain, Coastal Command, Home Forces, and the Home Fleet which had special functions. They might render support to Overlord but they 'could not possibly be placed under' General Eisenhower's 'sole command'. In the Mediterranean, the Chiefs of Staff continued, all air forces had come under the control of Sir Arthur Tedder. In the United Kingdom, they claimed, that position belonged to the Chief of the Air Staff, and, they indicated, the function of a real Com- mander-in-Chief of the air could be discharged by a combination between Sir Charles Portal and Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory. This combination they did not, however, attempt to define. The Chiefs of Staff agreed that Sir Arthur Tedder ought not to be an 'officer without portfolio', but the adoption of their suggestions would, of course, have made him just that.1 Thus, the Bri