pable of effective armed resist- ance. Nothing which could endure stood between the Russian armies moving westwards and the Anglo-American armies moving east- wards. In these circumstances, it became doubtful whether there was anything to be gained by further strategic air operations and par- ticularly by heavy area bombing. On 28th March the Prime Minister drew attention to these considerations, but the manner in which he did so suggested that he was acting on the spur of the moment with- out due reflection. 28 March 1945. Prime Minister to General Ismay (for Chiefs of Staff Committee) and the Chief of the Air Staff 'It seems to me that the moment has come when the question of bombing of German cities simply for the sake of increasing the terror, though under other pretexts, should be reviewed. Other- wise we shall come into control of an utterly ruined land. We shall not, for instance, be able to get housing materials out of Germany for our own needs because some temporary provision would have to be made for the Germans themselves. The destruc- tion of Dresden remains a serious query against the conduct of Allied bombing. I am of the opinion that military objectives must henceforward be more strictly studied in our own interests rather than that of the enemy. The Foreign Secretary has spoken to me on this subject, and I feel the need for more precise concentration upon military objec- tives, such as oil and communications behind the immediate battle-zone, rather than on mere acts of terror and wanton des- truction, however impressive'.1 This was, perhaps, among the least felicitous of the Prime Minister's long series of war-time minutes. It appeared to overlook the fact that the Bomber Command attack on Dresden had taken place not at the end of March, when Germany was obviously facing imminent defeat, but in the middle of February, when the situation had been some- what less promising and a great deal less clear. It also seemed to over- look the fact that, after e