bombing. Even if a greatly increased concentration of bombing could be achieved it was still necessary to make the attacks with the most efficient bombs and, above all, to make them heavy enough to produce worthwhile results. Part of this necessity was at least to a considerable extent answered by borrowing from German precepts and adopting primarily incen- diary tactics by a great increase in the proportion of incendiary bombs dropped. The other part of the necessity was more compli- cated and depended ultimately upon the success of the Empire Air Training Scheme and the resources of the British aircraft industry. But in launching the thousand bomber attacks in 1942 Sir Arthur Harris not only performed a feat of astonishing courage but also, in the case of the attack on Cologne, gave a practical demonstration of what might be regularly achieved if the front line could have a thousand bombers placed in it. 1942, then, was the turning point in the operational development of Bomber Command. The incendiary technique was demonstrated against Lübeck in March. The thousand bomber attacks occurred in May and June. The Pathfinder Force was created in August. On this basis was founded the great area offensive of 1943 to 1944 which embraced the major battles of the Ruhr, of Hamburg and of Berlin. In the circumstances of 1942 the decision to concentrate mainly on area bombing was operationally inevitable, and throughout 1943 the continued practice of it was also largely inevitable. In the condi- tions of those times precision bombing, save under wholly excep- tional circumstances, was impossible. Daylight operations of deep penetration and on a sustained scale were equally impossible, and for Bomber Command it was a question of a night area offensive or of no significant offensive at all. This was not everywhere appreciated and, perhaps, is still not adequately understood. There are, for example, those who believe that if the effort which was, in fact, devoted to making area b