6 bombers. More than five thousand of these were four- engined Lancasters, Halifaxes, Fortresses and Liberators. Fewer than forty were Stirlings and the rest were Mosquitoes.2 Thus, even by the measure of the aircraft which were actually available for operations, as opposed to those which were merely on the strength of the squadrons, the front line of the combined bomber forces considerably exceeded the target of 4,000 which had been set for Bomber Command alone in September 1941 when the United States was still a neutral country. Moreover, the destructive power, even of Bomber Command alone, was much greater than had been envisaged in September 1941 for the 4,000-strong force. That force, it had then been estimated, would be able to lift 75,000 tons of bombs from base per month. But only a quarter of these bombs were 1 Figures computed from Bomber Cmd. O.R.Bs. 2 Eighth Air Force Statistical Summary and B.B.S.U. The Strategic Air War Against Germany, 1939-45, p. 41. 3  INTRODUCTION 4 INTRODUCTION expected to fall within five miles of their targets. In March 1945 Bomber Command actually discharged over 67,000 tons of bombs of which about ninety-eight per cent probably fell within three miles of the aiming points.1 In this, the peak month, Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force dropped a total of more than 130,000 tons of bombs, which was considerably more than twice the total they dropped in the whole of 1942 and not much more than thirty thou- sand tons less than Bomber Command had dropped in the whole of 1943- The huge striking power of the Anglo-American strategic air forces in this final period of the war represented, as far as the aircraft were concerned, the culmination of a vast production, repair and servicing effort in Britain, the United States and in Italy too. As far as the crews were concerned, it similarly represented the culmination of a yet more complex recruiting and training programme in Britain, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand an