. A number of attacks were also made on the aero-engine industry in the summer. Then the attack was suspended until the United States air forces, and particularly General Spaatz himself, were stimulated to resume it by the appear- ance of the new jet aircraft. It was made almost entirely by the Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces, and Bomber Command had little to do with it. This was not only due to the nature of the target system, now so dispersed that only special precision daylight attacks could in- fict damage on it, but also because British intelligence services did not consider the threat important. In October, Air Commodore Bufton expressed the view that the Luftwaffe had already more air- craft than it could use and that the attack on oil was the best method of destroying its effectiveness completely.2 In this judgment post-war investigations show that there was a great deal of truth. The United States investigators came to the conclusion that the direct bombing of the industry after June 1944 was unnecessary.3 Nor was the direct attack on the aircraft industry very successful. Much of the aircraft production, including nearly all that of jet air- craft, was underground or hidden in woods. Some of this was dis- covered and the approaches bombed, but not sufficiently to make any great difference to the number of aircraft produced. There was a re- duction in the number of aero-engines owing to the bombing of the early part of this period, but, as construction was concentrated on single-engine fighters, less were needed. Aircraft production con- tinued to increase until September 1944 when a larger number was handed over to the Luftwaffe than had ever before been given to it in a single month. Then a big decline began, though even in February 1945, 2,000 fighters were accepted. But this decline was due almost entirely to the attack on communications. The dispersal of the in- dustry into 300 separate plants, if it had made direct bombing un- remunerative, had enormo