gh a junction with the Mittelland Canal near Rheine, it in fact carried a great part of the inland water traffic between the Ruhr and many other industrial towns. Thus, after the breach of 23rd September 1944, radical repair action was put in hand. But through the eyes of air power these activities were carefully watched and noted at High Wycombe. On the night of 4th November 5 Group revisited the Ladbergen stretch of the canal and aimed more than 930 tons of bombs at it. The canal was once again breached and some of its important installations were devastated. Another watching period followed and an even more devastating attack was made by a somewhat smaller force, again from 5 Group, on the night of 21st November, while, on the same night, another 5 Group force gave the same treatment to the Mittel- land Canal at Gravenhorst.2 Throughout December the Germans worked vigorously to make good the damage, but on Ist January 1945 their endeavours were once more utterly wrecked. Flying in daylight to the Dortmund-Ems Canal and at night to the Mittelland Canal 5 Group drained both for the fourth and second time respec- tively.3 It may be doubted whether the accuracy, regularity and effectiveness of these brilliant operations had ever, in combination, 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Reports and Immediate Interpretation Report, 8th Dec. 1944 (covering also the Bomber Command attack on 11th Nov.). In the attack on Castrop Rauxel some 960 tons of bombs were dropped. Eight tons of incendiaries and nine 4,000-lb. H.E. bombs were included in the load. In many attacks a higher proportion of 4,000-lb. bombs was dropped. In the Leuna operation, for example, when the total tonnage dropped was 1,847, there were three hundred and sixty 4,000-lb. bombs in it. 2 For the results of this Gravenhorst attack see the photograph facing p. 182. 3 For the results of these attacks see the photographs facing pp. 182 and 183. 189 been approached by any air force in the previous history of bombing. Moreove