Amiens were attacked twice, and, in addition, the marshalling yards at Vaires were bombed.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 28 BASES OF VICTORY AND DISSENSION kind of target and in these localities Bomber Command was already a force of great precision. They showed conclusively that Sir Arthur Harris' estimates of the operational capacity of the force which he commanded failed to take into account all the facts. They showed that a campaign on the lines suggested by Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory was, for Bomber Command, a feasible proposition of war and that there, in fact, was an alternative to the policy of area attack on major German cities. This was, perhaps, fortunate in view of the prohibitive casualties which had lately been sustained in the latter type of operations.1 The revelation had a profound effect upon the decisions which were about to be taken on the employment of the heavy bombers in the periods immediately before and after the launching of Overlord. It was also to exert a far from unimportant influence upon the later development of bombing policy when the Germans had been cleared from France and all arms were turned against Germany herself. Nevertheless, the demonstration of operational efficiency given by Bomber Command in March 1944 did not, in itself, resolve the issue between Pointblank and Overlord. While it did show that Bomber Com- mand could play an effective part in the French railway campaign, it did not, of course, establish that the French railway campaign was necessarily a sound and a relevant strategy. The diminished influence which Sir Arthur Harris was now able to exert upon the decision meant, however, in effect, that the problem was now reduced to the issue which had arisen between the advice of General Spaatz and that of Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory. It was thus that the policy to govern the operations of Bomber Command came to depend upon the outcome of a dispute between an American general and a Royal Air Force fighter commander. This outcome