truction, the old 'Jockey' Committee, which had been functioning for so long, and was now termed 'working committee for the G.A.F.' The other was for Army objec- tives now called 'working committee (A.F.V.)' (Armoured Fighting Vehicles) which dealt with tank construction and, at a later date, with ordnance depots. For a considerable period these two systems were only used as 'filler' targets when the overriding priority of the oil target system had been considered. The business that was always first was the report of the working committee on oil and the respec- tive merits of hydrogenation plants, refineries and benzol plants were debated in the light of the extensive information provided. The Oil Committee also had from the first the storage tanks as one of the targets which it must consider, though for a long period the more numerous field depots were left to be dealt with by the tactical air 1 Mins. of Ist Mtg. of the C.S.T.C., 18th Oct. 1944. 2 do. 20th Mtg., 2nd March 1945. 215 forces under the direction of S.H.A.E.F.1 Flight Lieutenant Kent was added to the C.S.T.C. so that the committee might learn from the fountain-head the exact state of the targets under discussion. It will be noted that there was, thus, no working committee for communications, but this situation was soon radically changed. For the action of Sir Arthur Tedder succeeded in placing it first among the second priorities and it immediately, as has been seen, assumed a prominent place in the strategic offensive. There can be no doubt of the dismay of the C.S.T.C. when it had to devote so much atten- tion to communications. It was afraid that this objective would divert forces from the all-important oil targets. But the C.S.T.C. had, of course, to consider the problem which Sir Arthur Tedder had referred to it.2 Sir Arthur Tedder had, it is true, his own advisers on communica- tions. He had also, after the dissolution of the Allied Expeditionary Air Force and the transfer of its Commander, Sir Tr