Bomber Command of daylight tactics. 2 1 O.R.S. Nt. Raid Report. The weather forecast for this operation was wrong. It had been predicted that the Ruhr area would be clear of cloud all night. Actually there was ten-tenths cloud well below the bombing height at Wesseling and Scholven. 2 Min. Portal to Churchill, 31st July 1944. 3. The development of day attack by Bomber Command and the establishment of new conditions in the night offensive June-October 1944 The launching of operation Overlord on the morning of 6th June 1944 by no means brought the Overlord air diversion to an end. Bomber Command was now called upon to act in the manner of a tactical air force and to provide direct support to the armies of the field. Like the preparatory attacks carried out between March and June, these operations were not a part of the strategic offensive against Germany and as far as those carried out at night were concerned, they had little bearing upon it. The pre-Overlord diversionary opera- tions, as has just been seen, stimulated great advances in the tech- niques of night precision bombing and provided a kind of operational training in the practical application of the various methods. The fruits of this stimulation and of this training were now, however, as has also been seen, beginning to be applied to the destruction of strategic objectives in Germany and it was from these operations, themselves a part of the strategic air offensive, that the future of the precision element of the campaign at night was to stem. It is, there- fore, not intended to dwell upon the night operations of Bomber Command which were carried out in support of the armies against targets in occupied territory. The development of precision bombing at night can henceforth be seen in the history of Bomber Command's strategic operations against German targets. Nevertheless, the Overlord requirements as also those for the destruction of flying bomb sites and other similar small targets in occupied territory di