troduced.5 1 R.A.F. Story of attacks on Tirpitz. 2 Report by J.P.S., 23rd Aug. 1944. 3 Min. Churchill to Portal and others, 16th Feb. 1943. 4 Letter and enclosure Harris to Brockman (Secretary to First Sea Lord), 21st March 1943 . 5 Mins. and Letters, April and May 1943. 193 Meanwhile, the Admiralty was working up a series of midget sub- marines and in September 1943 these strange and forbidding craft were used by the Royal Navy in a very gallant and by no means ineffective attack on the Tirpitz. Extensive damage was done and the battleship had to lie up in Alten fjord undergoing repairs for some months. By March 1944, however, the Admiralty once more had to assume that the Tirpitz was ready to put to sea and further attacks were launched, this time with good results, by carrier-borne aircraft of the Fleet Air Arm. By the end of the summer, however, Air Staff plans for what were to be the final blows were maturing. While the Tirpitz remained in Alten fjord she was beyond the range of Lancasters flying from and back to British bases, but now that Tallboy bombs were available, it was resolved that she should be reached by Bomber Command. Arrangements were made with the Russians for 617 and 9 Squadrons to use the base at Yagodnik in Archangel. These arrangements were most complicated. Plans had to be made to accommodate the ground and air crews in Russia, and for the servicing of the British aircraft while they were there. Understandings had to be attempted about recognition signals, radio frequencies and flying control procedures. Sixty thousand gallons of hundred octane petrol had to be found at Yagodnik and, in addition, five hundred gallons of oil and fifteen of glycol were needed. Eventually, as it turned out, a bill for 9,239 roubles, which had been incurred by the Russians in the entertainment of their allies, had to be paid, and to all these difficulties others were added by last-minute changes of plan.1 In the event there was much confusion, and to make matter