er 1944 after attacks by Bomber Command and the United States 8th Air Force. crews doubted the wisdom of joining the gaggle or lacked the ability to do so. In the target areas there was often much congestion and an inevitable jockeying for position on the bombing run. Nevertheless, as a Bomber Command directive of 9th July 1944 observed, the experiment did show that it was possible 'to carry out bombing attacks necessitating small penetrations into enemy occupied territory in daylight with almost negligible losses provided adequate fighter cover is given . . . ' and 'that accurate bombing can be achieved in daylight using the same marker technique as used at night'. The real value of the experiment, however, turned upon the extent to which these initial and somewhat haphazard methods could be developed into more scientific and precise techniques and upon whether, in the light of its growing experience, Bomber Command would be able to execute effective day attacks upon German targets at reasonable cost. Both propositions were tackled with vigour and, as in March, April and May, there had been spectacular develop- ments in night bombing techniques against small targets in occupied territory, so now in July, August and September, there were equally important developments in day bombing techniques against the same kinds of objective. Moreover, as in April and again in June, Bomber Command had begun to translate its night precision techniques into terms of the strategic offensive against Germany, so now in August and September it began to do the same thing with its day bombing techniques. These techniques, like those at night, were of various different kinds. Two of them, Oboe ground marking and controlled Oboe, were identical with night techniques which have already been discussed. The other methods of day attack developed by Bomber Command over occupied territory were firstly, visual bombing in which each crew had to sight and aim at the target individually either with