of Germany. It is more difficult to ascertain at what period the attack became decisive and to isolate its effects from the other factors operating at the same time. It can be seen, therefore, that, when the newly formed Working Committee on communications was called upon to make a plan and draw up a list of the targets to be attacked, it had an intractable problem to solve. There was available for its guidance the experience of the successful attack on communications in France and Belgium. But this had been made for tactical purposes. Both the strategic and tactical air forces had taken part in it, the latter having played an important role in the later stages, when targets nearer the invasion area could be attacked. The strategic air forces had been the main instrument in producing what was sometimes called attrition, by which was meant the destruction of railway centres and marshalling yards, which not only hindered immediate operations but destroyed the facilities for rapid repair. Both the strategic and the tactical air forces could then be used with greater effect for what was termed interdiction, to cut railway lines, destroy bridges and attack loco- motives and rolling stock in motion. All this was done with great skill in a comprehensive plan, but at the end of it there was still  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 246 Elde much controversy as to whether the attrition or the interdiction had contributed most to the successful result of the attack.1 There had also in the years before the invasion been much bombing of communications with a strategic end in view. But this had not been done as part of a scientific or comprehensive plan. Communica- tion targets had been used by both British and United States strategic air forces as an aiming point in what was really area bombing, or as last resort targets, when the weather or other causes had prevented crews from reaching their primary objectives. At the same time it had long been recognised that the best results could b