at different prospect which grew from the belief that the aeroplane was not a defence against the aeroplane. If this was so, air superiority was likely to be established, not as a result of air battles between aircraft, but by the assertion of an air offensive which was superior to that of the enemy counter- offensive. But unless one side or the other could strike an initial knock- out blow an extended air campaign was likely to develop. Its issues, it seemed, might well be decided by the effect of the bombing offen- sive upon the potential of the enemy's bombing offensive. Thus, in the pre-war plans of Bomber Command, there was provision for a strategic offensive against the sources of German air power which was designed to reduce the scale of the German bombing offensive, and this was one of the cardinal objects of Bomber Command's strategy in 1940. Even so, provision had also been made for a different means of reducing the scale of the German air offensive. This took the form of the development of Fighter Command as a direct means of defence against bombers. This was a contradiction of the theory that the aeroplane was not a defence against the aeroplane, but in the Battle of Britain the contradiction was sustained. The first major air battle in history resulted in a decisive victory for the fighters over the bombers, and a cardinal revision of bombing strategy was made necessary by it. The subsequent experience of Bomber Command and no less of the United States Strategic Air Forces confirmed the lesson that the principal obstacle between the bombing offensive and the attainment of its strategic object was the defending enemy fighter force, and it became clear that one of the great factors in the achievement of air superiority was the neutralisation of that fighter force. Moreover, air superiority was not simply a question of being able to use the air for the purposes of the strategic bombing offensive. It was also a question of being able to use it for all other