rison with the Mosquito. Its relatively low speed and large size made it an easy target for German night fighters and very many Lancasters were shot down for that reason. Moreover, the loss of a Lancaster was not only much more common than the loss of a Mosquito, it was also much more serious. A Lancaster was crewed by a pilot, a navigator, a bomb aimer, a wireless operator, a flight engineer and two gunners. It was powered by four engines. A Mosquito was crewed by a pilot and a navigator and it was powered by two engines. Only in its vast weight-lifting capacity was a Lan- caster superior to a Mosquito. But this was a consideration of funda- mental importance. It is possible that some of the Lancaster's weight- lifting capacity was wasted through overloading which, especially on long-distance operations, sometimes forced crews to drop part of their bomb loads before reaching the target. There is, however, little evidence to suggest that this kind of jettisoning exceeded what was made necessary by special and duly recorded circumstances. Nor is there much evidence to show that overloading was a major cause of casualties. To have achieved the weight-lifting capacity of the Lancaster force by the development of a Mosquito force would have meant the use of such a vast number of aircraft that it may be doubted whether the force could have been marshalled at the target and handled in and out from the limited number of aerodromes in and the limited air space over Britain. Moreover, it is not safe to assume that if the Mosquito element had been expanded to such dimensions,  CONCLUDING SURVEY 308 THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE the Germans would not have been able to devise some means of defence as they did against the Lancasters. The demand for pilots and navigators, the most skilled members of the bomber crew who needed the longest training, would also have been enormously inflated. Such questions, however, are largely hypothetical. But it may reasonably be asserted that Bomb