the September directive, were now omitted, with the result that in the new directive there were only two main targets; oil at the first prior- ity and the enemy lines of communication at the second. The status of the oil plan was accordingly somewhat increased, but this was not all. The only other important change which the new directive showed by comparison with its predecessor was in the clause dealing with 'important industrial areas', and this too strengthened the position of the oil plan. These area bombing targets were, as had previously been the case, accorded no priority and, as had also been the case in the September directive, they were included as objectives for attack 'when weather or tactical conditions are unsuitable for operations' against the primary targets. Now, however, an additional proviso was added. 'As far as operational and other conditions allow', it was stated, these area bombing attacks were 'to be directed so as to con- tribute to the maximum destruction of the petroleum industry and the dislocation of the target systems indicated above'.1 1 Bottomley and Spaatz Directive No. 2, Ist Nov. 1944, App. 8 (xliii(b)). The only other 'target systems indicated above' consisted of that embracing 'The German lines of communication'.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 74 This, it may be thought, was a fairly clear directive but, in a cover- ing letter to Sir Arthur Harris, Sir Norman Bottomley, on behalf of the Air Staff, sought to make it clearer still. Oil, he said, 'continues to hold the highest priority so as to prevent rapid recovery which would immediately be reflected in the enemy's strength and war economy'. As to the communications campaign, Sir Norman Bottomley empha- sised that it was to be undertaken 'in conjunction with, but sub- ordinate to the offensive against oil targets'. He also said that the tank, motor transport and ordnance depots and plants had been dropped from the directive in order to reduce the diversion of effort from the oil and c