ry tactics at the beginning of 1942, to bring into existence the Pathfinder Force later in the same year and to adopt massive daylight bombing in the late summer of 1944. In such cases, members of the Air Staff in London often had direct consultations with Sir Arthur Harris' subordinate commanders. On the other hand, Sir Charles Portal often suffered long delay in persuading Sir Arthur Harris of the desirability of strategic policies with which the latter disagreed. The problems of control within Bomber Command itself were naturally somewhat less and, especially after the Headquarters at High Wycombe came into service with their marvellous system of communications, were brilliantly surmounted. At the peak was the Commander-in-Chief and his Headquarters Staff, from which the chain of command extended downwards through the Group Head- quarters and, after 1944, the Bases to the Squadrons. When it is remembered that for each attack each single member of the bomber crew required individual briefing, that each crew required collective briefing and that each squadron required squadron briefing, it will be recognised that the feat of organisation in repeatedly laying on major operations was a considerable one. No commander in previous history committed such a high proportion of his front-line strength to battle as often as Sir Arthur Harris. Moreover, the operational orders required to be broken down into a vast number of individual units of application. At the end of the war, the front line of Bomber Command was equipped with Lancasters, Halifaxes and Mosquitoes. The Halifax, though much improved in its later version, was never an entirely satisfactory aircraft, but the Lancaster and the Mosquito were with- out equal in their classes and in their day. Both had been in opera- tional service with Bomber Command since 1942 and both were the product of somewhat unexpected circumstances. The Lancaster was undoubtedly the most effective heavy bomber of the Second World War in Eu