nd motor vehicles. But, as in the case of the explosives supply, it does not seem probable that this would have made much difference to the course adopted in 1944.2 But, whatever view be taken of these problems, there can be no doubt that the attack on oil had an immense effect on the course of the war. The defeat of Germany was due to a combination of pressures, but the attack on oil made a large contribution to the allied victory. No doubt victory was certain once the allied armies had established themselves in France. But the final struggle would have been more difficult and more costly, if the attack on oil had not reduced the mobility and efficiency of the German air forces and the German armies. The efficiency of the Luftwaffe was impaired by the shortening, and in September almost complete cessation, of the training of its pilots in petrol-powered aircraft. From November at least, it had not 1 U.S.S.B.S. Oil Division Final Report, pp. 42-43. The British general survey (B.B.S.U. The Strategic Air War, pp. 152-153) does not accept the United States view but for rather different reasoning. The question is not discussed in the report of the British Oil Committee. 2 U.S.S.B.S. Oil Division Final Report, p. 57. The stocks of rubber, though large, were not as large as M.E.W. supposed when it considered the question of synthetic rubber as an objective.  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 238 enough fuel to use the aircraft and pilots at its command. Though it still showed courage, neither its day nor night forces could appear in sufficient strength to make any sensible impression on their enemies. Night fighter sorties, for example, even under heavy attacks, had often to be restricted to fifty or less. In this situation both Speer and Galland, the Inspector-General of Fighters, wished to abandon this makeshift defence and wait until a force of 2,000 fighters could be accumulated and sufficiently fuelled to make a devastating attack on a large bomber fleet. But, even if this e