then, could scarcely be removed from his command. Before considering the course of this dispute, it is, therefore, appro- priate to reflect upon the underlying causes of the deadlock. Sir Arthur Harris had assumed his command at a time when the force was in dire need of inspired leadership. Its operations up to February 1942 had revealed themselves as gravely disappointing to anyone who knew anything about them. Confidence in the future of Bomber Command had seriously diminished in high, as also some- times in public, places. Thus, the force, which represented the original and fundamental idea behind the creation of the Royal Air Force as a separate service, was in danger of eclipse before it had received many of its basic requirements such as more effective aircraft, better bombs, and radar guidance, and also at a time when the American air generals were striving for acceptance of related ideas in the pre- paration of their own strategic air forces. Nor was it only from above that Bomber Command was threatened. Its effectiveness ultimately depended upon the behaviour of the crews who manned it and, though the morale of the force was by no means broken, there were signs that it was delicately poised. Severe casualties had been sus- tained and little compensating success had been achieved. The public showed little appreciation either of the hazards or the hardships which confronted those who night after night embarked upon what was often a fruitless search in the dark. Moreover, Sir Arthur Harris, unlike some more fortunate com- manders, did not inherit a force which, while still appearing to be in the doldrums, had, in fact, surmounted its growing pains. In some respects, it is true, Bomber Command was, in February 1942, upon the verge of significant advances. The Lancaster was about to come into operational service and the introduction of Gee was imminent. To this extent things were getting better, but in other ways, apart from the facts that for so long so few Lan