he most rapid and the most economical defeat of Germany. Though the area offensive, even in the light of the various operational circumstances, is open to many strategic criticisms, it is difficult to see why it should bear unfavourable moral comparison with naval blockade or some other kinds of warfare. Despite all these important considerations, Mr. Churchill had, nevertheless, raised a relevant and, indeed, an urgent question in his minute of 28th March 1945. This was the problem of determining the time at which it would be safe to discontinue or, perhaps, to restrict the massive destruction of the strategic air offensive. A premature decision was likely to prolong the war. A delayed decision could only produce needless damage. The atmosphere in which this situation was appraised became calmer than would otherwise have been the case because, on the evening after he had written it, the Prime Minister agreed, at the sug- gestion of Sir Charles Portal, to withdraw his minute and to substi- tute for it a somewhat more discreetly and fairly worded document.1 The new minute, which Mr. Churchill issued on Ist April 1945, was as follows: Prime Minister to General Ismay (for Chiefs of Staff Committee) and the Chief of the Air Staff 'It seems to me that the moment has come when the question of the so called "area bombing" of German cities should be reviewed from the point of view of our own interests. If we come into control of an entirely ruined land, there will be a great shortage of accommodation for ourselves and our Allies: and we shall be unable to get housing materials out of Germany for our own needs because some temporary provision would have to be made for the Germans themselves. We must see to it that our attacks do not do more harm to ourselves in the long run than they do to the enemy's immediate war effort. Pray let me have your views'. 2 The suggestion, in this form, was substantially acceptable to the Air Staff. In the reply, which was given the authority o