rious and inconvenient defects. Sir Arthur Harris made a habit of seeing only one side of a question and then of exaggerating it. He had a tendency to confuse advice with interference, criticism with sabotage and evidence with propa- ganda. He resisted innovations and he was seldom open to persuasion. He was sceptical of the Air Staff in general, and of many officers who served upon it he was openly contemptuous. Seeing all issues in terms of black or white, he was impatient of any other possibility, and having taken upon himself tremendous responsibilities, he expected similar powers to be conferred. Only while serving under the 'direc- tion' of General Eisenhower did he really subordinate himself. From the British Air Staff he required to receive absolute and unquestion- ing confidence or dismissal. In the event he received neither, but because of the policy which he advocated and the prestige which he had acquired this was, perhaps, not surprising. With these fundamental considerations in mind, it is now possible to proceed and to consider the measures taken by the Air Staff in an attempt to enforce the terms of the directive issued by them, and by General Spaatz, on Ist November 1944. It will be remembered that a short time before this Sir Charles Portal had sought the advice of 1 Air Vice-Marshal Kingston McCloughry suggests that one of the consequences of these informal meetings at Chequers was '. . . a good deal of sniping and lobbying against the Transportation Plan in high circles'. This refers to the period before the launching of Overlord. See The Direction of War, (1955), p. 125. 81 Sir Arthur Tedder and that the latter had sent him a memorandum in which the principles of a common denominator bombing offensive were outlined and strong arguments in favour of a communications campaign were advanced. The sense of this memorandum, in which the oil plan was only a secondary consideration, did not, of course, by any means entirely correspond with the prevailin