ll independent Mosquito attacks. 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Report. In the Wesseling attack nearly seven hundred tons of H.E. bombs, including fifty-two 4,000-lb. bombs, were dropped. In that on Scholven about 785 tons of H.E. bombs, including one hundred and fifty-one 4,000-lb. bombs were dropped. O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Reports. The plant at Homberg was attacked with nearly 750 tons of H.E. bombs, including one hundred and forty 4,000-lb. bombs, that at Bottrop (only four Lancasters took part) with 530 tons, including four 4,000-lb. bombs,  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 176 The extent to which these heavy and accurate Bomber Command attacks contributed to the downfall of the German synthetic oil industry will be seen in a later chapter, but here it is, perhaps, appro- priate to mention that in the destruction of these formidable installa- tions, the weight of attack was almost as important as its accuracy. Moreover, in causing irreparable damage, the four-thousand-pound high explosive bombs were greatly superior to the smaller weapons. In this respect, the Lancaster, which, in these operations, was habitually armed with a four-thousand-pound bomb in addition to others of smaller size, was at a great advantage by comparison with the Halifax and the American Fortress and Liberator which could carry only the smaller bombs. Thus, with its high proportion of Lancasters and greatly improved accuracy of aim, Bomber Command had the capacity to become a more powerful force in the oil campaign than either the United States Eighth or Fifteenth Air Forces.1 In August 1944, however, the Bomber Command effort in the oil campaign slackened appreciably. Nevertheless, in that month the prospects of the Bomber Command contribution to.the oil and, indeed, the whole air offensive were radically improved. This was partly due, as has already been seen, to the successful break through to the Ruhr in daylight by Halifaxes at the end of the month and the new possi- bilities which that promised. But i