den, Leipzig, Chemnitz and 'any other cities where a severe blitz will not only cause confusion in the evacuation from the East but will also hamper the movement of troops from the West'. These targets, Sir Norman Bottomley explained, were to be attacked 'subject to the overriding claims of oil and the other approved target systems within the current directive'. There was nothing provisional about the suggestion. 'I am therefore to request', Sir Norman Bot- tomley concluded, 'that subject to the qualifications stated above, and as soon as moon and weather conditions allow, you will undertake such attacks with the particular object of exploiting the confused conditions which are likely to exist in the above mentioned cities during the successful Russian advance.' 3 Thus, as a result of the Prime Minister's insistent intervention, Sir Arthur Harris was, on 27th January, formally instructed to carry out the policy which he himself had informally suggested on the previous 1 Min. Churchill to Sinclair, 26th Jan. 1945. 2 J.I.C. Reports, 25th Jan. 1945. 3 Letter Bottomley to Harris, 27th Jan. 1945, App. 28. S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-H  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 104 ANTI-CLIMAX AND CLIMAX day. The fact was at once made known to Mr. Churchill in the following minute: 27 January 1945. Secretary of State for Air to Prime Minister 'Your minute M.115/5. The Air Staff have now arranged that, subject to the overriding claims of attacks on enemy oil pro- duction and other approved target systems within the current directive, available effort should be directed against Berlin, Dresden, Chemnitz and Leipzig or against other cities where severe bombing would not only destroy communications vital to the evacuation from the East but would also hamper the move- ment of troops from the West. The use of the night bomber force offers the best prospects of destroying these industrial cities without detracting from our offensive on oil targets, which is now in a critical phase. The Air Officer C