ut in some respects they were of a doctrinaire character. The suggestion that the control of the strategic air forces should be 'centralised' under the Combined Chiefs of Staff did not fully recognise the fact that in directing the strategic air forces as in everything else he did, General Eisenhower was no less an agent of the Combined Chiefs of Staff than Sir Charles Portal had been under the Casablanca arrangement or, with General 1 Report Portal to C.O.S., 9th Sept. 1944.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 60 OIL, COMMUNICATIONS AND MORALE Arnold, was to be under that now proposed. The suggestion that the new arrangement would confer upon the Combined Chiefs of Staff the power to direct the bombers, if such a course of action was decided upon, to carry out a final catastrophic blow against German morale was, for similar reasons, not wholly apposite. The Combined Chiefs of Staff already possessed such power which was subject only to the overriding political authority of the Prime Minister and the President. Even so, General Eisenhower's position as a commander in the field was, of course, quite different from that of Sir Charles Portal or General Arnold, who were not only agents of, but also members of, the Combined Chiefs of Staff. The criticism of the Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary Force's control on the grounds that it led to difficulties in getting the Pointblank priorities 'properly observed' was hardly fair to General Eisenhower and to his Deputy, Sir Arthur Tedder. Sir Charles Portal himself had enjoyed only very limited success in getting these priori- ties observed, at any rate by Sir Arthur Harris, in earlier phases of the Pointblank campaign. It also seemed to be overlooked that one of the principal difficulties had been not so much in getting the priorities observed as in arriving at an agreed and clear definition of what they were and whether attack upon them was operationally feasible. Finally, it took no account of the undeniable fact that it was