es Portal observed to the Prime Minister soon after these oil attacks in June, the casual- ties were 'another pointer to the increasing efficiency of the enemy's night defences . . . ' and they showed the extent to which he was 'sur- mounting the difficulties presented by our radio counter-measures'. If the losses were to be kept down, Sir Charles Portal said, 'great flexibility of tactics and improved defences by our heavy bombers and by accompanying night fighters will be needed . .. ', but, as though he was aware of the probable limitations of such measures, which in any case were already being vigorously prosecuted, Sir Charles Portal reminded Mr. Churchill that it was 'hoped to extend the scope of our daylight operations and to attack suitable targets in Germany as experience is gained.' 2 This extension of daylight operations took place rapidly in Bomber Command, and by August they accounted for slightly more than half the total effort of the force. Moreover, under the cover of growing day air superiority, they were accomplished at a surprisingly low cost in casualties. The damage from flak was necessarily much greater, but Bomber Command aircraft were generally able to survive it. 3 Never- 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Reports. 2 Min. Portal to Churchill, 3 1st July 1944. 3 In August 1944, Bomber Command flew 10,345 sorties by day and 10,314 by night. The loss rate for the daylight sorties, which, however, included only one penetration of Germany, was 0·48 per cent. Ten per cent of these sorties were damaged by flak. In September, the day and night sorties amounted to 10,832 and 6,540 respectively. The daylight loss rate was o·4 per cent and even from the 2,071 daylight sorties over Germany  SWEDEN Advance of the Allied Armies August 1944 - April 1945 NORTH ESTONIA PETSERI . Map 3 @ RIGA ELGAVA .... .. .. · MADONA BAUSKA LATVIA the missing rate was only 8 per cent, Or eleven per cent for sumiller sorties aguilast stiller September 19st the overall low rate at night