all proportion to the direct military and economic importance of that city . . . ' Mr. Eden then suggested that the psychological effects of attacking a medium-sized town were greater than those of attacking, with equal force, a larger town, and he added: 'I wish to recommend therefore that in the selection of targets in Germany the claims of smaller towns of under 150,000 inhabi- tants which are not too heavily defended, should be considered, even though those towns contain only targets of secondary importance . . . ' 1 Moreover, there is no reason to suppose that Sir Archibald Sinclair found these views morally repugnant. At any rate he received a letter towards the end of May 1942 in which an M.P. stated that he was 'all for the bombing of working-class areas in German cities. I am Cromwellian-I believe in "slaying in the name of the Lord", because I do not believe you will ever bring home to the civil population of Germany the horrors of war until they have become tasted in this way'. To this Sir Archibald Sinclair replied, on 26th May 1942, that he was 'delighted to find that you and I are in complete agreement about . . . bombing policy generally. . . . ' 2 Naturally, climates of opinion varied with the changing circum- stances of the war, and the aim of disrupting civil morale as an end in itself came, in fact, to occupy a less and less prominent position in the directives. Nevertheless, as will be recalled, the object of 'under- mining the morale of the German people' was avowed in the Casa- blanca directive of January 1943, immediately after the object of achieving 'the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic system'. Sir Arthur Harris was never dissuaded from general area attacks upon residential areas for moral reasons, though, as has also been seen, he was from time to time 1 Min. Portal to Sinclair, 5th Aug. 1941, and letter Eden to Sinclair, 15th April 1942. 2 Correspondence with Sinclair, 21st May and 26