l with a most delicate decision. If he re- placed Sir Arthur Harris he would be sacrificing a Commander-in- Chief with greater prestige than any other in the Royal Air Force. If he did not, he would undoubtedly experience much difficulty in press- ing his views further upon Sir Arthur Harris and, therefore, in getting the policy in which the Air Staff so firmly believed fully reflected in the operations of Bomber Command. He chose the latter course. 'I willingly accept your assurance', Sir Charles Portal wrote to Sir Arthur Harris on 20th January 1945, 'that you will continue to do your utmost to ensure the success- ful execution of the policy laid down. I am very sorry that you do not believe in it but it is no use my craving for what is evidently unattainable. We must wait until after the end of the war before we can know for certain who was right and I sincerely hope that until then you will continue in command of the force which has done so much towards defeating the enemy and has brought such credit and renown to yourself and to the Air Force'.3 In this way the realities of the situation were made apparent. No other course at this stage of the war was open to Sir Charles Portal which would not have been a remedy worse than the disease. He might also hope that this long discussion, in spite of the result, would cause Sir Arthur Harris to make the attack on oil more effective. But 1 The list which Sir Arthur Harris had mentioned on Ist November 1944 consisted of Magdeburg, Halle, Leipzig, Dresden, Chemnitz, Breslau, Nuremberg, Munich, Coblenz, Karlsruhe and the rest of Berlin and Hanover. In each case, it will be noted, twelve targets were listed. Thus, on his own admission, the general area bombing plan displayed the same characteristic as that which Sir Arthur Harris so much deplored in the case of the oil plan. This was the characteristic of the hydra. 2 Letter Harris to Portal, 18th Jan. 1945. 3 Letter Portal to Harris, 20th Jan. 1945.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTOR