on Nazi road and rail traffic, and to sap German morale'.1 This despatch was widely publicised in the United States, it was broadcast from Paris; and in Britain, though it was suppressed after only a brief release, it did not go unnoticed, especially after it had been quoted, on 6th March 1945, in the House of Commons.2 In the United States, where such a strong and public emphasis had been accorded to the selective and precise nature of American bombing, it produced an awkward situation which was only partly alleviated by the statement of General Marshall to the Secretary of War that the bombing of Dresden had taken place at Russian request.3 In Britain, too, the despatch caused serious embarrassment and un- doubtedly contributed to the widespread misunderstanding of the conduct both of the British Air Staff and of the Commander-in-Chief, Bomber Command which has prevailed ever since. The Associated Press message, though omitting to mention one of the major objects of the attacks, which was to assist the Russian ad- vance, accurately, though, perhaps, injudiciously, described the aims of the attacks on Dresden and the other towns which it mentioned, 1 A copy of this despatch appears on the Secretary of State for Air's file. 2 Parliamentary Debates. Commons. Vol. 408, Col. 1901. 3 The statement was contained in a memorandum of 6th March 1945. The American official historian accepts it as correct. See The Army Air Forces in World War II, Vol. III, p. 731. It seems probable, however, that General Marshall read too much into the Russian request which, apart from the specific mention of Berlin and Leipzig, was in general terms. At any rate no evidence has come to light showing that the Russians asked specifically for the bombing of Dresden.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 114 ANTI-CLIMAX AND CLIMAX but the suggestion that a radically new kind of bombing policy had been adopted and that it had been adopted by the decision of the 'Allied Air Chiefs', by which service officers wer