oved. This was partly due, as has already been seen, to the successful break through to the Ruhr in daylight by Halifaxes at the end of the month and the new possi- bilities which that promised. But it was also due to the beginning of a sudden and dramatic decline in the effectiveness of the German night fighter force which, within a few weeks, entirely changed the conditions of the night offensive. Bomber Command carried out twelve major night attacks on German targets in August 1944. They involved the despatch of 3,764 sorties among which were fifty-seven flown by Mosquitoes. 141 bombers, all of them Lancasters and Halifaxes, failed to return. Thus, the missing rate of 3.7 per cent was only slightly lower than that sustained in the same kind of attacks during July. But the August operations were more ambitious than those of July and they included four very long-range attacks on two occasions each, against Königs- berg and Stettin. Moreover, owing to the rapid advance of the allied armies during the month, the German night fighter force had a smaller area of territory to defend than previously. One result was that the free-lance single-engined 'cat's eye' fighters, which in the months before had operated with such great effect in the neighbour- hood of the Pas de Calais, were now frequently encountered over western Germany. The fact that, in these circumstances, the Ger- and that at Wanne-Eickel with rather under 420 tons, including eleven 4,000-lb. bombs. In all five operations small numbers of incendiary bombs were also dropped. 1 It should not be forgotten that some versions of the Mosquito could now carry a 4,000-lb. bomb and carry it to Berlin, nor that modified Lancasters could lift 8,000-Íb., 12,000-lb. and eventually 22,000-lb. bombs. DAT ATTACK AND NEW NIGHT CONDITIONS 177 mans were getting even slightly less good results than before was highly significant.1 In itself, it indicated that the rising efficiency of the German night fighter force had been check