ster was about to come into operational service and the introduction of Gee was imminent. To this extent things were getting better, but in other ways, apart from the facts that for so long so few Lancasters were available and that, in some ways, Gee was a disappointment, things were getting worse. The German night fighter force, for example, was growing in- comparably more effective and Bomber Command casualties were more likely to rise than to decline. The great material reinforcements which had once been expected from the United States had also been gravely curtailed. It was not, indeed, until after Sir Arthur Harris had been at High Wycombe for a whole year and Bomber Command had at last received substantial numbers of Lancasters and had to some extent been equipped with Oboe, H2S and efficient marker bombs that the whole prospect began to change. Yet, in the mean- time, dynamic leadership had achieved a conversion of Bomber Com- mand. The morale of the crews had been restored and raised. The 79 confidence of the Government and, in particular, of the Prime Minister, had been regained. The world knew of the Thousand Bomber Raid on Cologne. Such was the initial and immeasurable achievement of Sir Arthur Harris as Commander-in-Chief. But this great man defied most of the rules which can generally be applied to successful commanders. Sir Arthur Harris was rarely seen by his aircrews and by the great majority of them, never, for he seldom left the remoteness of his head- quarters at High Wycombe. Nevertheless, the strength of the Com- mander-in-Chief's personality penetrated and pervaded the whole force where it mingled with and, perhaps, to a great extent, created, the spirit of Bomber Command. In legend, Sir Arthur Harris was seen by his men as a forceful, ruthless, single-minded and great leader, able and willing to chastise the enemy, to secure rewards for those who did their duty and condign punishments for those who did not. Nor, perhaps, was the legend far rem