een, to have a great influence on future operations. The plan for renewing the Battle of Berlin had its origin in July 1944 when the British Chiefs of Staff declared 'that the time might well come in the not too distant future when an all-out attack by every means at our disposal on German civilian morale might be decisive' and suggested to the Prime Minister 'that the method by which such an attack would be carried out should be examined and all possible preparations made'.3 As a result, Sir Charles Portal submitted a memorandum to his colleagues at the beginning of August 1944 in which the problem was analysed by the Air Staff after consultation and agreement with the Foreign Office, the Political Warfare Execu- tive and the Ministry of Economic Warfare. This memorandum showed that the object of the plan was not primarily, as had been the case in previous attacks on targets of this nature, to reduce war production, nor was it designed to throw Ger- many into utter chaos. On the contrary, it appeared as a measure intended to preserve rather than to destroy some form of German government in Germany. 'It is of great importance', the memoran- dum stated, 'that once the issue of the war is clear beyond doubt the German High Command should decide that Germany must accept 1 Eisenhower to Armies and Air Forces, 6th Sept. 1944. 2 Note for Tedder, 14th Aug. 1944. Tedder to Bottomley, 9th Sept. 1944. 3 Min. C.O.S. to Churchill, 5th July 1944. 53 the necessity of organised surrender. Otherwise', it continued, 'the war might be continued into a guerrilla phase which would force the Allies to undertake the entire responsibility for the whole administra- tion of Germany.' The object of the plan was, therefore, in the words of the memorandum, 'to influence the minds of German high political and military authorities in the desired direction to the point where the High Command must either accept the necessity of sur- render or be replaced by an alternative Command which does so'. T