less, when communications bombing came once again with the approach of Overlord to be associated with military opera- tions, evil memories of the futile and costly tactical undertakings which had been forced on Bomber Command in 1940 tended to be 1 This was not a coincidence of thought developed in isolation. The Leigh-Mallory plan, as also the views of Sir Arthur Tedder, had been much influenced by a report on air operations against Sicily and Italy in 1943 by Professor S. Zuckerman. See Royal Air Force 1939-1945, Vol. III, p. 86. 31 revived. Sir Arthur Tedder was, however, fully aware of these dan- gers. The war in the Middle East and in Italy had been above all else a battle of communications and supply, and as a result of his long ex- perience in that struggle, Sir Arthur Tedder knew well the ways in which air power was liable to be misused, especially at the behest of harassed and sometimes imperfectly informed military commanders. But he also knew that the haunting problem of Overlord was primarily one of communications. In this operation the Germans would be fighting upon interior and overland lines of communication and they would have at their dis- posal a railway system which was among the most comprehensive in the world. The allies, of course, held the initiative, but they would be operating on exterior and overseas lines of communication. This in- evitably meant that in the crucial opening phase of the campaign the Germans would be able to concentrate in the battle zone more rapidly than the allies, and this, in turn, obviously raised the grave threat that the vanguard of the invading armies would be thrown back into the sea with consequences for the whole allied cause which were im- measurable. It was in communications bombing that Sir Arthur Tedder saw the means of neutralising this potential German advantage. Like Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory he did not, however, believe that this great object could be achieved by a short burst of tactical bomb- ing at t