s would, he believed, quickly redress the disadvantageous position of the night bombers and he thought it would be better to concentrate on the production of such equip- ment and devices rather than to embark upon day bombing. The only tangible gain which Sir Arthur Harris expected from day bombing was an increased ability to deal with 'small but important tactical objectives. This, however,' he said, 'would be of real moment only if the U.S. Bomber Force available were inadequate in size to deal with such objectives. This, however,' it appeared to him, was 'not the case. Furthermore,' Sir Arthur Harris wrote, 'it is very doubtful whether our heavy bombers could in fact achieve greater accuracy in daylight than we have already achieved at night on fairly lightly defended targets by means of Oboe.' In addition, owing to the rarity of clear days, they would, he pointed out, have many fewer opportunities.1 In the light of further developments, however, Sir Arthur Harris' views underwent a complete change and in June he decided to under- take the experiment which had been urged upon him by the Air Staff in April. The 234 Lancasters and Mosquitoes despatched in daylight to the docks at Le Havre on the evening of 14th June were the first of a total 2,716 daylight sorties sent out to targets in occupied territory during the rest of the month. By that time, it had 1 Letter Harris to Air Min., 25th April 1944.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 166 become evident that the German day fighter force had lost the will or the ability to offer a sustained challenge to allied air operations in daylight provided that the latter were protected by fighter cover. In particular, the almost complete lack of reaction by the Luftwaffe in daylight over the Normandy beach-heads at what was obviously one of the decisive hours of the war, had been singular and encour- aging. Moreover, the feebleness of the German day fighter force bore interesting comparison with the still severe and effective reaction o