ve might prolong the war for several months. As has been said in Chapter XII, this view was shared neither by Sir Arthur Harris nor by some others in a position to influence the objectives of the attack. Fortunately when Sir Charles Portal made the observation the turning point had already come. But had it come earlier the unreasoning pessimism of the Western Alliance in January might have been avoided and the more opti- mistic view of October might have continued to persist. In this case less thought would have been given to using the strategic air forces to assist the Russian offensive and more to winning a rapid victory in the West. If this could have been achieved not only would many German and Allied lives been saved, but there would also have been political consequences of great importance to the future of Europe. So great were the stakes of the oil offensive. and military men, but without consideration of the operational factors of which they knew little. The British general survey does not consider 'that many tactical opportunities for the attack of oil targets were missed'. B.B.S.U. The Strategic Air War, p. 24.  3. The attack on communications 244 THE ATTACK ON COMMUNICATIONS There was much controversy concerning the choice of targets in the communications target system. This was partly due to its extent; for this target system was much the largest and most complicated. But there were other causes of disagreement about it. There were from the outset two intelligence organisations studying it and they differed radically from one another in their appreciations. The Working Committee in London and its parent, the C.S.T.C., had little belief that an attack on this target system would produce important strategic results. A very different point of view was taken by Sir Arthur Tedder, who initiated the attack, and his advisers in S.H.A.E.F., especially Professor Zuckerman, who had advised him on this subject during the successful attacks on communications in Sici