ommand attack on Ist January 1945. This shows the western portion of the canal. 16. Marshalling yards at Giessen after attacks in December 1944 by Bomber Com- mand and the United States 8th Air Force. 4. The operational climax October 1944-May 1945 Operations between October 1944 and May 1945 were the climax of the strategic air offensive. The Bomber Command part in them represented the realisation of most of the hopes and ambitions which had inspired the British Air Staff for a quarter of a century. This, from the point of view of what was achieved, was by far the most spectacular period in the history of Bomber Command, but, from the point of view of the operations themselves, it was, perhaps, the least interesting. The success of these final operations was the logical and almost inevitable crowning of an edifice whose foundations had by the painful processes of trial and error and of courage and endurance been laid in the past and to a not inconsiderable extent in the recent past. The new foundations laid in this final phase of the offensive were, perhaps, of less significance than appeared at the time because Bomber Command was carrying out its last war-like operations before the revolution of air power produced by the releasing of atomic energy and the application of jet propulsion. Thus, the doctrines of air power, and, indeed, of war altogether, based upon the operational experience of the strategic air offensive against Germany, had a less certain relevance to future possibilities than would otherwise have been the case. The greatest significance of the final operations of Bomber Com- mand, therefore, lies in the contribution which they made to the unconditional surrender of Germany in May 1945, and this is analysed in the chapter which follows. Here in this section it is intended only to chronicle the operational achievement itself. Among the great victories achieved will be found most of the highlights of the whole offensive including the complete oblitera