the appear- ance of being operational arguments. 'In Bomber Command', he said, 'we have always worked on the principle that bombing any- thing in Germany is better than bombing nothing'. This, indeed, was an important principle, but it was no longer thought by the Air Staff to be sufficient. Another difficulty in the way of building the offensive into 'a real comprehensive pattern' which occurred to Sir Arthur Harris was 'the number of cooks now engaged in stirring the broth'. He bitterly com- plained of the conflicting demands made by the 'panacea mongers', the Admiralty, whom he accused of resuscitating a U-boat threat, and the Special Operations Executive. Bomber Command, he said, had to steer a sort of via media through the maze, but in the conclud- ing passages of his letter Sir Arthur Harris made it clear that he in- tended this via media to take the form of a reinvigorated general area offensive. Bomber Command had, he claimed, 'virtually destroyed', within the last eighteen months, forty-five out of the sixty leading German cities. Despite the 'invasion diversions', he had, he said, succeeded in maintaining a destruction rate of two and a half cities per month and in starting the destruction of many others. 'Are we now to abandon this vast task which the Germans themselves have long admitted to be their worst headache', Sir Arthur Harris asked, 'just as it nears completion?' All that was now required, he said, was the destruction of Magdeburg, Halle, Leipzig, Dresden, Chemnitz, Breslau, Nuremberg, Munich, Coblenz and Karlsruhe and the fur- ther destruction of Berlin and Hanover. It seemed obvious to Sir Arthur Harris that this task could be per- formed without denying to the army any of the direct support it re- quired, and it seemed to him that its accomplishment would 'do more towards accelerating the defeat of Germany than the armies have yet done-or will do'.1 However this might be, it was, of course, equally obvious that Sir Arthur Harris' plan could no