n fact, devoted to this particular purpose. Clearly the attitude of Sir Arthur Harris was a factor in this divergence between the pat- tern of Bomber Command operations during October and the terms of the September directive. But, as far as this aspect of the problem was concerned, Sir Charles Portal took no overt action until the month had run its full course. In the meantime other, and somewhat less formidable, questions were considered. Among these was one which related to the machinery of target selection. This was an old problem in the solution of which it was necessary to reconcile the three primary factors of strategic intention, economic intelligence and operational ability, and the organisations designed to deal with it have been described elsewhere in this work. Now, however, the problem had grown yet more com- plex. The bombing offensive was no longer controlled by a single agent, as it had been by Sir Charles Portal under the Casablanca agreement, or by General Eisenhower between April and September 1944. This direction was now shared between Sir Charles Portal and General Arnold and, in effect, between their delegates, Sir Norman Bottomley and General Spaatz. Thus, the task of combining the allied air offensive, which had always been difficult, now became also elaborate. Moreover, there were increasing numbers of ministries, agencies and organisations seeking to attract to their various purposes 1 Distribution of bombs in September (25th-30th), October, November and December 1944. A.M.W.R. Manual of Bomber Command Operations 1939-45.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 68 THE PROBLEM OF CONCENTRATION the effort of Bomber Command and the United States Strategic Air Forces. In particular, the influence and requirements of the Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary Force could not be ignored. For these reasons, which were not in themselves new but only more intense than before, it was decided to establish a new Anglo-American organisation, known as the Combined S