er cover was pro- vided by Mustangs and Spitfires and the only German aircraft seen was an Me. 109 which did not get into contact with the Lancasters, only one of which failed to return. The 3 Group bombers flew in formations of three, each 'vic' being led by a G-H aircraft. Along the route the attacking force flew over almost unbroken cloud which did, however, tend to break up in the target area, though this, owing to the technique of the bombing, was not necessary for the success of the operation. It was an exaggeration on the part of the Narrative Officer at Bomber Command to record that this attack 'practically wiped out [the] town', but it certainly did cause heavy and concen- trated damage to it. 3 1 Bomber Cmd. O.R.B. July-Dec. 1944. 2 Note of Conf. at 3 Group, 2nd Oct. 1944, Letter Bomber Cmd. to 3 Group, 6th Oct. 1944, and consolidated Form G, 2nd Oct. 1944. 3 Bomber Cmd. Interceptions/Tactics Report, 23rd Oct. 1944, Immediate Interpre- tation and Interpretation Reports, 30th Oct., 7th and 8th Nov. 1944, and Summary of Operations, 18th Oct. 1944. At the first attempt, a substantial daylight operation against a German target by the 3 Group G-H technique had resulted in a striking success. Moreover, as was the case with Bomber Command's other daylight operations, this had been achieved at a negligible cost in casualties. It was clear that Bomber Command had developed a formidable daylight bombing potential of considerable precision which threatened German targets not only in fair but also in foul weather. This was to be an important aspect of the Bomber Com- mand contribution to the final phase of the combined air offensive which was yet to come. In addition, it was an extending threat, because, as the allied armies advanced towards the Rhine, they were closely followed by mobile G-H transmitters, with the result that the area of Germany covered by them was greatly increased. In other ways, too, this land advance simplified the problems of the daylight offens