fort devoted by Bomber Command to these and other naval targets was small by comparison with that which continued to be harnessed to the direct support of the armies in the field. These operations, though not always approved by Sir Arthur Harris, Sir Charles Portal or Sir Arthur Tedder, were of extraordinary variety and, at any rate from the operational point of view, effectiveness. They included high-explosive obliteration attacks on German towns in the front line where strong points had been established. In support of the American army offensive, Düren, Jülich and Heinsberg were devastated by Bomber Command on 16th November and earlier, to guard the flank of the British Second Army, Kleve and Emmerich had received similar treatment. In October, Bomber Command took part in the reduction of the Walcheren Fortress. The sea wall was breached in several places and gun positions near Breskens, Flushing, Westkapelle and elsewhere were bombed. On 7th October, thirteen Tallboy Lancasters of 617 Squadron, led by Wing Commander Tait, resumed their original role and in a brilliant operation breached the Kembs Dam on the Rhine. The object of this was to prevent the Germans controlling the level of the Rhine and, perhaps, letting loose a flood while the allies were crossing it. Other dams, including the Sorpe, were also attacked, but though accurate bombing and some damage was achieved, these dams withstood the onslaught.2 There were, however, few targets in Germany which could any longer resist the destructive power of Bomber Command and, during 1 B.B.R.M. Report. 2 Bomber Command Quarterly Review, Oct .- Dec. 1944, and O.R.B. (617 Sqdn.), 7th Oct. 1944. Thirteen feet of the top of the Urft Dam, which was attacked several times in December, were broken off, but the Germans succeeded in preventing the erosion of the dam by manipulating the water level. The Sorpe Dam was attacked with Tallboys by 9 Squadron, and several direct hits were achieved. The dam did not give way. 197 Oc