d justify temporary diversion from attacks against com- munications or indeed from any targets other than oil plants and tank factories'. Even if the full scale of attack could not be mounted and the operations had to be intermittent, it was still considered that very valuable results might be achieved. There might, the report said, even be a 'political value in demonstrating to the Russians, in the best way open to us, a desire on the part of the British and Americans to assist them in the present battle'.1 This report produced an immediate reaction. On 25th January, the day of its issue, Sir Norman Bottomley telephoned to Sir Arthur Harris and discussed its implications. The Commander-in-Chief said that he regarded the task of attacking Berlin as being already 'on his plate', but Sir Norman Bottomley explained that, since the full Thunderclap plan was now in prospect, it would be necessary to co- ordinate the preparations with the United States Strategic Air Forces and, probably, to consult the Chiefs of Staff as well. Sir Arthur Harris suggested that the main attack on Berlin should be supple- mented by simultaneous operations of a like nature against Chem- nitz, Leipzig and Dresden which, equally with Berlin, would share the task of housing evacuees from the East and, again equally with Berlin, were focal points in the German system of communications behind the Eastern front.2 If anything like the whole of this plan was to be carried out it was clear, as Sir Norman Bottomley had told Sir Arthur Harris, that General Spaatz's participation would have to be sought. Since the operations were designed to support the battle on the Eastern front, it might also be supposed that the Russians would be consulted either through an allied mission in Moscow or at the forthcoming conference at Yalta. The former question was in Sir Norman Bot- 1 J.I.C. Report, 25th Jan. 1945. 2 This is based on Sir Norman Bottomley's report of the conversation. See the following footnote. IOI t