illery. Their gunners were ordered only to use their shells when the aircraft were immediately overhead, and they felt confident of causing casualties. For this reason, though the main plants were still heavily defended, the journey to them was less dangerous than it might have been. 17. The attack on the Tirpitz, 15th September 1944. This photograph was taken just before bombing began. The smoke screen obscures the battleship whose position is indicated by arrows. Similar effects were produced on the German armies, but their extent is a more complicated and controversial question. Nor are the facts on which judgment must be based as well established as those concerning the Luftwaffe. The fighting in the East has not been sufficiently analysed and our knowledge comes largely from the statements of German generals which cannot be checked in the same 1 The Army Air Forces in World War II, Vol. III, pp. 729 and 740.  18. The oil plant at Zeitz before attack. 19. The oil plant at Zeitz one month after Bomber Command's attack on the night of 16th January 1945.  A 20. The oil plant at Pölitz before attack. Note: the A, B and C were placed on the original war-time photograph, but have no significance in this context. 21. The oil plant at Pölitz in February 1945 after attack.  22. The Bielefeld Viaduct on 17th March 1945. 23. A Grand Slam bursts on Arnsberg Bridge during the attack on 19th March 1945.  THE ATTACK ON OIL 24. Nienburg Bridge after the attack on 22nd March 1945, showing Grand Slam craters. way as those concerning the fighting in the air. In the West a number 239 of different causes were operating and there is conflict of opinion as to the influence of each on the final result. All that can be said on this point is that their task would have been more difficult if the German fighter forces had had more training and fuel, though it must also be remembered that some of this fuel was destroyed by the bombers of the tactical forces or prevented from reaching its de