ain, and was now Commander-in-Chief, Fighter Command, gradually began to assume the role. It was, however, not until August 1943 that any official sanction was given to this arrangement. At the Quebec Conference in that month Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory was appointed Com- mander-in-Chief of the Allied Expeditionary Air Force, which was to afford the necessary tactical air support to Overlord.2 This, however, was not the end of General Morgan's difficulties and it was only the beginning of those engulfing Sir Trafford Leigh- Mallory. The Allied Expeditionary Air Force, as its name implied, was intended to be made up by British and American elements. The American contribution was to be the Ninth Air Force consisting of light or tactical bombers and fighters. The British contribution was to be the Second Tactical Air Force, including 2 Group, which had recently been removed from Bomber Command, and Fighter Com- mand, or at least elements of it. The organisation of such a force and the provision of a directive for Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory may have been expected to be a relatively simple proposition. In fact, it proved to be one of the most complicated and confusing command problems of the war. It was not until November 1943 that even a measure of agreement was reached between London and Washington as to the meaning of the term 'administrative control' in its application to Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory's position vis-à-vis the United States Ninth Air Force, and by the time that a compromise was reached on this point, other and more baffling problems had arisen.3 In the middle of November 1 The appointment of General Eisenhower as Supreme Commander was not decided until the Cairo Conference in December 1943. 2 C.A.S. File. 3 The American view, represented by Generals Arnold, Devers and Eaker, was that 'administrative control', which Sir Charles Portal had proposed should be exercised by Air Marshal Leigh-Mallory over the Ninth Air Force, embraced the award of decorations a