e plant was some- what scattered, but in places quite severe.1 Such, at least from the point of view of the absence of casualties, was the happy outcome of the first major daylight operation by Bomber Command against a German target in 1944 and the first also in which Bomber Command had ever penetrated beyond the Rhine with fighter cover. Naturally, this was the prelude to further operations of the same nature. On 6th September, a force of 181 Lancasters and Halifaxes from 6 Group and the Pathfinder Force, 1 Bomber Cmd. Interception/Tactics Report, 31st Aug. 1944, and Photographic Interpretation Report, 2nd Sept. 1944. It is impossible to say exactly what damage was done by the operation of 27th August because no photographic interpretation was made between 21st July and Ist Sept. 1944. DAY ATTACK AND NEW NIGHT CONDITIONS 171 covered by six squadrons of Spitfires and four of Mustangs, was despatched to Emden where a successful attack began just before half past six in the evening. One of the Pathfinder Lancasters crashed near the target but all the other aircraft returned to base. Photo- graphic reconnaissance showed that the bombing had been accurate and well concentrated. Five days later, on 11th September, three separate and almost simultaneous daylight attacks were launched against oil targets in the Ruhr. 129 Lancasters, Halifaxes and Mos- quitoes from 4 Group and the Pathfinder Force were sent to the Nordstern plant at Gelsenkirchen, 116 Lancasters from 3 and 5 Groups and the Pathfinder Force to Kamen, and 134 Halifaxes, Lancasters and Mosquitoes from 6 Group and the Pathfinder Force to Castrop Rauxel. No fewer than twenty squadrons of Spitfires, three of Mustangs and three of Tempests provided the fighter cover. The German fighter force offered no resistance and the nine aircraft of Bomber Command which failed to return were shot down by flak or in some cases, perhaps, brought down by bombs from friendly bombers. All three attacks, and especially those on Kam