still concerned to push the rest of the enemy front back from the Siegfried line to the Rhine. How soon the main attacks could be mounted was also a matter of doubt. It was not, therefore, considered possible to concentrate on the approaches to the Ruhr and the plan again divided the area to be attacked into zones, though only five in all on this occasion. Concentration on any one of these could be obtained, it was sug- gested, if it fitted into the tactical object. The whole plan in fact 1 Report by Speer, undated. 2 Mins. of 14th Mtg. of C.S.T.C., 17th Jan. 1945.  The Five Zones Recommended for Attack 10th January 1945 Map 11 APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS 254 was still based on tactical and not on strategic grounds. In addition it was thought that the strategic air forces should be concentrated on areas where, as a result of the Ardennes offensive, great damage had already been done. Thus, the north-eastern approaches to the Ruhr were only placed fourth in the list of priorities. 1 When this plan was submitted to the C.S.T.C. it met with con- siderable criticism. That Committee hoped to resume the oil offen- sive at full intensity now that the immediate threat to the allied armies had been removed. They were under the impression that these would not resume their offensive for two or three months, in which case there would be little tactical result from the plan. The Committee was divided as to whether important strategic results could be obtained in a limited time. It was admitted that a shortage of coal had been produced in the northern ports and elsewhere and that the destruction of the Bielefeld and Paderborn viaducts would greatly increase it. But, it was suggested, quicker results would be obtained by direct attacks on oil and weapons. Strategic results could at any rate only be obtained if the attack was concentrated on a limited area. Oil, it was pointed out, affected enemy resistance everywhere, while an attack on communications was limited to a small area.2 F