o. As far as the crews were concerned, it similarly represented the culmination of a yet more complex recruiting and training programme in Britain, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and parts of the British Empire. In both respects, the result was a triumph of co- operative allied effort and organisation over the technical, logistical and operational problems which had obstructed such an achieve- ment. But the strategic problems of how this great force should be applied were, as is shown in the first of the three following chapters, less successfully overcome. The two main issues of the strategic air offensive concerned, firstly, the extent to which and the circumstances in which it might be diverted from its primary purpose of striking at the heart of Germany and, secondly, whether the heart of Germany would be most effec- tively damaged by a selective or a general application of bombing. The first issue was a question of the priority of Pointblank in the grand strategy of the war. The second was a question of the bombing policy by which Pointblank might most effectively be executed. These were not new issues but in 1944 and 1945 they arose in a more acute form than ever before. This was because the diversion of strategic air power posed by the military requirements of Overlord was more drastic than any previous diversion and, between April and September 1944, even involved a transfer of the direction of the forces from Sir Charles Portal to General Eisenhower. It was also due to the greatly increased striking power available and the enormously greater operational flexibility and versatility of that striking power. This meant, as far as bombing policy was concerned, that many more possibilities were open and that the choice of what ought to be attempted was less and less con- trolled by the operational limitation on what could be achieved. In particular, the issue for Bomber Command of selective and general 1 See App. 44, and Harris Despatch. The ni