ter Command in the Battle of Britain as a preliminary and never completed task. Secondly, the persistent offensive of Bomber Command gradually transferred the main air battle from Britain to Germany and helped 1 These are the best obtainable figures. They cannot be regarded as absolutely precise. Nor are the categories entirely clear. Not all the Australians in Bomber Command, for example, served in the R.A.A.F. See App. 41. 2 B.B.S.U. The Strategic Air War, p. 39.  CONCLUDING SURVEY 288 THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE to initiate a fatal preoccupation of the Luftwaffe with the means of defence at the cost of those of offence. Thereafter, in 1942 and still more in 1943, these gains were further consolidated and extended. In addition, huge numbers of Germans and slave labourers were employed in repairing the havoc wrought in the great area attacks. More and more effort was devoted to the extension of the night fighter force, the provision of anti-aircraft guns and searchlights. And, though many other causes also contributed to this, the German bomber force declined to almost negligible propor- tions. Bomber superiority, initially achieved by Bomber Command and now reinforced by the United States Eighth Air Force, made it less and less probable that the Germans would ever dare to initiate gas or bacteriological warfare. In addition, Bomber Command was growing not only into a much more powerful force but also, on the basis of its operational experience, into a much more efficient one. But the great area offensive of March 1943 to March 1944 did not roduce direct results commensurate with the hopes once entertained nd at times, indeed, feared by the Germans themselves. Huge areas In many great towns all over Germany were severely stricken and some were devastated, but the will of the German people was not broken nor even significantly impaired and the effect on war pro- duction was remarkably small. It was not only that the damage could be repaired more readily than had bee