hese direct results had a decisive effect upon the outcome of the war and there were also con- tinuing and accelerating indirect results which were scarcely less important. Moreover, this was achieved in spite of massive diversions of force to the direct support of the armies and of the navies. It would not have been possible had it not been for the long years of apparently frustrated endeavour. Success was won by the utilisation of new scientific aids and weapons, the production of new aircraft and the development of new operational techniques. But these would have been of no value had not the courage of the Bomber Command crews endured. Nor would many of the developments ever have been tested in action had it not been for the efforts of a few brilliant, intrepid and devoted men among them. Nor could it, in any case, have been achieved by Bomber Com- mand alone. Though for long the Combined Bomber Offensive was combined only in name, the exploits of the United States Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces played an important part in paving the way not only for their own ultimate triumphs but also for those of Bomber Command. Nor could any of these Commands have done what they did if the armies had not made the successful invasion of June 1944, which brought them in so short a space of time to the German frontier, or if the sea lanes between Europe and the United States had not been kept open throughout the Battle of the Atlantic. On the other hand, the victory in the Battle of the Atlantic owed something to the assist- ance given by the strategic air forces, and without the even greater assistance which they gave to the armies, the invasion of the Con- tinent could hardly have been attempted at all. Thus, the victory was due not only to the combination of allies but also to a combination of all the different forms of attack which could be brought to bear against the enemy by sea, land and air. To this obvious truth all the highest allied Commanders subscribed. The differe