d 14th Sept. 1944.  NEW OPERATIONAL SKILLS 172 DAY ATTACK AND NEW NIGHT CONDITIONS 173 Force. They had, therefore, depended upon the reasonably clear weather which had, in fact, been encountered on each occasion. Such weather was, however, likely to become increasingly uncommon in the immediate future as autumn drew on. For that reason the development of 3 Group as a specialised blind day bombing force was of the utmost importance. As a result of the demonstrated effectiveness of G-H as a mechanism of blind bombing, it had been decided by the end of July 1944 to equip the whole of 3 Group with the device as quickly as possible. 1 But the plan took a long time to execute and by 2nd October, when 3 Group, now an all Lancaster force, had some 234 aircraft in its squadrons, there were only sixty-one which had been equipped with G-H. This, however, together with the prospect of a faster rate of fitting in the immediate future, was considered sufficient to justify the view of the Air Officer Commanding, Air Vice-Marshal R. Harrison, that the Group should assume a specialised role within Bomber Command and that, as 5 Group had for some time been doing, it should be permitted to carry out independent operations. On 6th October, Bomber Command authorised 3 Group to carry out independent G-H blind bombing operations when the weather was unsuitable for ground marking and visual bombing, and when there was no other over-riding commitment. The targets allotted to the Group for this purpose were all, rather surprisingly, area objec- tives in the centres of large German towns. Among them was Bonn in which the Air Officer Commanding 3 Group had expressed a special interest.2 On 18th October 1944, Air Vice-Marshal Harrison despatched 128 of his Lancasters to this town. Substantial fighter cover was pro- vided by Mustangs and Spitfires and the only German aircraft seen was an Me. 109 which did not get into contact with the Lancasters, only one of which failed to return. The 3 Group b