ined by current military, requirements and by their relative importance in war production.' Obviously these criteria might or might not coincide. But in addition it was suggested that five major interdiction targets should be sub- jected to attack by the strategic air forces. Three of these were key points in the Dortmund-Ems and Mittelland canals and two others, the Bielefeld viaduct and, almost as important, one of the viaducts on the Soest-Hildesheim main line, the most important connection between the Ruhr and central Germany.2 1 Review of Working Committee (Communications) C.S.T.C., Oct. 1944-May 1945 dated 14th June 1945. The plan was dated 7th November 1944. 2 The zones were (1) North-eastern approaches to the Ruhr, (2) Frankfurt-Mannheim, (3) Cologne-Coblenz, (4) Kassel, (5) Karlsruhe-Stuttgart, (6) Magdeburg-Leipzig, (7) Upper Silesia, (8) Vienna, (9) Bavaria. The last four zones were designed for the Fifteenth Air Force and, it was said, would fit in with the oil offensive. See map 9. S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-R  APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS THE ATTACK ON COMMUNICATIONS 248 The targets were thus distributed over a vast area, but it was also laid down that it was the business of the Working Committee to recommend priorities among the targets to be attacked by the strategic air forces. The C.S.T.C. had insisted on this, largely, it would appear, so that they might safeguard the priority of the oil offensive. But it was for S.H.A.E.F. and the Army Commanders to decide where the tactical air forces should be used while the Deputy Supreme Commander had also the right on tactical grounds to call on the strategic air forces to assist them. The list of targets drawn up by the Working Committee for the strategic air forces were sixty- nine in number, mostly marshalling yards and main junctions, some of which had already been subjected to attack on many occasions. Those which were adjacent to built-up areas and thus specially suitable for attack by Bomber Command were d