om rising above the September level, the Luftwaffe might have been in almost the same position by the end of January as it in fact was three months later. It is by no means certain that this would have stopped altogether the Ardennes offensive for the final stocks might have been used for that purpose. Nor would it have induced the Russians to resume their offensive on the main Eastern front for their inaction was due to other causes. In any case the Germans would have prolonged this resistance by the stubborn fighting of their infantry as they did in the final stages of the war. All that can be said is that, if it had been possible to press home the attack earlier, there can be little doubt that the collapse of Germany would have come sooner. 2 1 U.S.S.B.S. Oil Division Final Report (No. 109), pp. 130-132. The judgment is based on the records of a number of plants which showed unexploded U.S.S.A.F. bombs 12.2 per cent; R.A.F. bombs 18·9 per cent; unidentified bombs 24 per cent; a British team found that as many as 29 per cent failed to explode on one Ruhr plant. O.R.S.(B.C.) Report, 6th Nov. 1945. 2 The United States special oil investigators have no doubts on this problem. They roundly declare that 'Even a small part of the bombs dropped on cities would have sufficed to completely knock out oil targets at a very early date.' This judgment does not consider the question of dates and ignores the operational difficulties. U.S.S.B.S. The German Oil Industry (No. 113), p. 64. The United States general survey does not pronounce on this question. The same view was put forward by many German high-ranking civilians It is thus hardly possible not to agree with the judgment which 243 Sir Charles Portal had at the time that neglect of the opportunities provided by the oil offensive might prolong the war for several months. As has been said in Chapter XII, this view was shared neither by Sir Arthur Harris nor by some others in a position to influence the objectives of the atta