. General Eisenhower assured Sir Arthur Tedder that he would, if necessary, assert his authority to obtain the necessary powers.2 At about the same time he gave Sir Arthur Tedder a draft directive in- structing him to draw up these plans, calling upon General Spaatz, Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory and Sir Arthur Harris as might be neces- sary.3 Thus, Sir Arthur Tedder, who had previously not even pre- sided at the planning committee, became, in effect, the supreme air commander. He could now consult with General Spaatz and Sir Arthur Harris not on a basis of equality but upon one of superiority. Backed by the full and weighty authority of General Eisenhower, Sir Arthur Tedder now occupied, as far as the air command was con- cerned, the fixed prospects, not of an heir presumptive, but of an heir apparent. The resolution of the conflict between Pointblank and Overlord was in sight. This, however, was not a simple proposition for the differences of outlook between the three Commanders whose efforts were to be directed by Sir Arthur Tedder remained, and before the new higher command constitution could come into effect they had to be adjusted by some form of compromise, which would obviously be neither easy to reach nor easy to enforce. The debate which followed was, in fact, a debate upon the conflict between Pointblank and Over- lord, and in it, Sir Arthur Tedder played the part of a protagonist rather than an arbiter. Nevertheless, it was clearly his judgement of the situation which would be decisive in producing the outcome. The three commanders principally concerned in this argument 1 Letters Portal to Tedder, 18th Feb. 1944, and Tedder to Portal, 22nd Feb. 1944. 2 Memo. by Eisenhower for Tedder, 29th Feb. 1944. 3 Draft Dir. Eisenhower to Tedder, undated. It is probable that this was sent with the memo. cited above at footnote 2. The senior Bomber Command representative at Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force (S.H.A.E.F.) was Air Vice-Marshal Oxland who had f