theatres and in other kinds of armed force were, in fact, successfully discharged during the war. General Spaatz com- 305 manded the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe. They were based at points which ranged from Cambridge in England to Foggia in Italy and embraced heavy bombers and single-engined fighters. Sir Arthur Tedder commanded long-range bombers, tactical bombers and fighters in the Middle East. Nor was the presence in London of the Chief of the Air Staff a substitute for a Commander- in-Chief. The functions of a Chief of Staff and a Commander-in- Chief are different things. The Chief of the Air Staff, of course, was not, and had not the time to be, directly concerned with the command of forces. He was concerned with their higher direction, with the strategic, as opposed to the operational, decision. In this capacity his position varied considerably. At the outset, bombing policy was determined by the Defence Committee of the Cabinet on the advice of the Chiefs of Staff of which the Chief of the Air Staff was a member. This system, which was not always strictly observed, persisted until January 1943 when, because of the readiness for action of the United States Eighth Air Force, a new situation arose. At the Casablanca Conference it was decided that the policy of the Combined Bomber Offensive should be determined by the Com- bined Chiefs of Staff and that Sir Charles Portal should be their agent for issuing the directives to Sir Arthur Harris and General Eaker. In practice, however, this arrangement made no substantial difference. The Combined Chiefs of Staff seldom considered bombing policy except in the most general terms and it was tacitly understood that Sir Charles Portal would not issue directives which interfered with the respective and obviously different policies adopted for Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force. The Defence Committee still had occasional opportunities for considering aspects of bombing policy but the Prime Minister, who