isruption of Ger- man rail communications in France which could only be carried out with the co-operation of the strategic air forces. An informal com- mittee presided over by Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory and including representatives of General Spaatz and Sir Arthur Harris, was, how- ever, making no progress either towards its adoption, its amendment or its rejection. Sir Charles Portal believed that the solution might be to 'forma- lize' the committee, but Sir Arthur Tedder, with his experience of command in the Middle East and the Mediterranean theatres, and 1 J.S.M. to C.O.S., 17th March 1944. 2 C.O.S. to British Military Mission, Washington, 18th March 1944. 4 Dill to C.O.S., 21st March 1944. C.O.S. to Dill, 22nd March 1944. Marshall to Eisenhower, 25th March 1944 8 Dill to Portal, 21st March 1944. 5 Letters Portal to Spaatz and Bottomley to Harris, 13th April 1944. The letters were ín identical terms. his long absence from Whitehall, had no inclination towards this method of strategic planning. 'I am steadily losing my optimism as to how this is going to work out', he told Sir Charles Portal on 22nd February 1944. General Spaatz had refused to take orders from Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory and Sir Arthur Harris' representatives were concerned only with 'a series of adjustments' to the bombing statistics in order to prove that Bomber Command could undertake nothing other than 'mass fire raising on very large targets'. The only solution, Sir Arthur Tedder suggested, was to create a unified command of the air forces.1 This argument may not, at the time, have convinced Sir Charles Portal, but it did meet with the entire approval of General Eisen- hower, who told Sir Arthur Tedder on 29th February to proceed with the air planning which was now becoming so urgently necessary. General Eisenhower assured Sir Arthur Tedder that he would, if necessary, assert his authority to obtain the necessary powers.2 At about the same time he gave Sir Arthur Tedder a draft directive in-