neral 1 Mins. of the Mtg., 25th March 1944. 2 Memo. Spaatz to Eisenhower and Portal, 31st March 1944. Sir Charles Portal, with a most scrupulous regard for his agreement with General Eisenhower (which had not yet come into force), told General Spaatz that this matter must be decided by General Eisenhower and that he was sending a copy of General Spaatz's memorandum to Sir Arthur Tedder. Letter Portal to Spaatz, 31st March 1944 3 There was no disagreement about the need to continue the attack on the Luftwaffe.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 34 BASES OF VICTORY AND DISSENSION Eisenhower and, in view of what was about to happen, this was of importance. Oil and communications were, indeed, presently seen to be, not competing, but complementary target systems, and it was to be in the destruction, not of one or the other, but in that of both, that the long endeavour of the strategic air offensive was ultimately to be crowned with triumph and Germany, within a year, to be brought to the point of complete collapse. Moreover, neither of these target systems divorced the aims of the strategic air offensive from those of the assault on land. On the contrary, the attacks upon them contri- buted directly and indirectly to the success of the military operations while these military operations also contributed to success of the strategic air operations. These developments, however, still lay in the future and their sig- nificance was not yet by any means generally appreciated. That they were ultimately able to take place was due to Sir Arthur Tedder's strategic theories and, no less, to General Spaatz's opposition to them, for it was in the eventual reconciliation of the viewpoints of Sir Arthur Tedder and General Spaatz that the conflict between Pointblank and Overlord was resolved. In the meantime, however, Sir Arthur Tedder had to contend with yet other difficulties before even as much of his plan as had commended itself to General Spaatz could be given the formal expression of a bom