ons. 1 Himmler was increasing his efforts to penetrate armaments control and had succeeded in securing that of the V-weapons for his protégé, Kammler. As the year went on he was given a number of new offices including, after the 20th July assassination attempt, the command of the Home Army. He and Bormann had succeeded in getting Ohlendorf, who was under Himmler's command in the Sicherheits- dienst, placed in an important position in the Ministry of Economics where he stirred up trouble. One or other of these was, perhaps, designed to replace Speer if he could be ousted.2 After the July plot Goebbels was given the post of Reich Com- missioner for the Total War Effort, to obtain the maximum man- power for armed services and armaments. This enabled him to enter to some extent into Speer's territory to ensure that manpower was not being wasted. Speer had to appeal to Hitler, for example, to pre- vent indispensable workers from being called up.3 Bormann, Himmler and Goebbels thus controlled the Volkssturm raised in these last months. It was, perhaps, partly due to their influence that so many weapons were wasted on new and raw divisions instead of being given to those which had lost their equipment in battle. Moreover, during Speer's illness Hitler dealt directly with Saur, Speer's principal and most energetic subordinate, who remained, at any rate until the end of 1944, far more optimistic about the result of the war than Speer was himself. He could not, in any case, in a posi- tion much inferior to Speer's, have the possibility of challenging Hitler's decisions or persuading him to adopt more sensible ones as Speer had done. Saur was exonerated by Speer from disloyalty or any attempt to obtain his office. But Speer thought that he was too ambitious and not sufficiently realistic. Others described him as arrogant and bullying. At any rate he failed to support Speer's efforts to make Hitler realise that the war could not be won.4 1 Notes on Confs. with Hitler, 6th and 7