rlin, 'the Russians may wish to know our inten- 1 Min. Sinclair to Churchill, 27th Jan. 1945. 2 Min. by Churchill, 28th Jan. 1945. 3 General Spaatz flew to Bovingdon on 28th January to attend celebrations of the third anniversary of the creation of the Eighth Air Force. He had lunch with Sir Norman Bottomley on that day. 4 These orders were apparently given orally to General Doolittle. 105 tions and plans for attack of targets in Eastern Germany'. Sir Norman Bottomley and General Spaatz supposed that the Combined Chiefs of Staff would consider this point and they assumed that they would be told of any comments which the Russians might make. Sir Norman Bottomley, at General Spaatz's request, particularly asked that the message should be shown to General Kuter who, owing to the illness of his Chief, was deputising for General Arnold at the allied Con- ference.1 Three days later the Vice-Chiefs of Staff in London in- formed the Chiefs of Staff in Malta that they approved these priorities to which, however, they added tank factories since Sir Archibald Nye, the Vice-Chief of the Imperial General Staff, had expressed the view that a 'marginal' effort would be inadequate. 2 These priorities were apparently never discussed by the Combined Chiefs of Staff, nor it seems were they specifically mentioned to the Russians, but on 6th February 1945 Sir Charles Portal sent a message to Sir Norman Bottomley from Yalta in which he said that the recom- mendations of the Vice-Chiefs of Staff had been considered and approved by the British Chiefs of Staff. He suggested that they should now be considered by General Spaatz and that, if he accepted them, they should be embodied in a revised directive for the Combined Bomber Offensive. 3 Meanwhile, at the Yalta Conference, discussions of what was des- cribed as the co-ordination of offensive operations were taking place with the Russians. At a plenary session held on 4th February 1945, General Antonov, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Red Army