us situation' might be created in the future if the development was not in the meantime checked. They also thought that the only way in which it could effectively be checked was 'by offensive measures begun at once against jet engine production centres, training establishments and appropriate storage units'. Though Sir Charles Portal was told that 'the petroleum industry and communications' remained 'primary objectives' and that the attack on the Luftwaffe had been given no particular 'order of priority', he, nevertheless, found that in the pro- posed directive it was stated that 'The G.A.F. and primarily its jet production, training and operational establishments now become primary objectives for attack'.1 Naturally, Sir Charles Portal was left in doubt as to what was meant but he thought that what might be concluded was that the German jet industry had been accorded 'supreme priority'. Such a 1 Min. Bottomley to Portal, 13th Jan. 1945, covering proposed directive 12th Jan. 1945. 97 change of policy could only be justified, he believed, if it was likely that the war would continue until towards the end of the year. If, on the other hand, there was a chance of victory by about May, which, Sir Charles Portal believed, would largely depend upon the success of the new Russian land offensive, then, he thought, it would be re- duced by any substantial diversion of effort from oil and communica- tions to aircraft production. The issue was one of major strategy which Sir Charles Portal thought could only be determined by the Combined Chiefs of Staff, but, in the meantime, he said he would accept the directive on a provisional basis. 1 These comments and reservations were passed on to General Spaatz by Sir Norman Bottomley who added that he proposed to draw atten- tion to them in his letter to Sir Arthur Harris covering the directive. Sir Norman Bottomley suggested that General Spaatz might do the same in the case of his two commands.2 General Spaatz, however, did not inten