cceed in passing a concentrated bomber stream to the target while the Ger- man fighters were being assembled at some quite different point. Nevertheless, these German tactics did effect the first real breach in the Bomber Command policy of concentration for it was found that, if they were to be convincing, the diversionary operations had to be mounted on an increasingly heavy scale and that the radio counter- measures war had to be undertaken on a similarly larger scale and also by more and more complex methods.2 A decreasing proportion of the effort was, therefore, left for the destruction of the main target. Moreover, when so much turned upon the deception of the German fighter controller as to what the main target was, it obviously became more dangerous for Bomber Command to concentrate its assault upon the same place in a series of successive attacks. In particular, it was virtually impossible to deceive the fighter controller about the main target at the height of the Battle of Berlin and, as will be remembered, Bomber Command was subsequently forced more and more to shift its concentration to other parts of Germany and notably to the south. Thus, to a greater extent than ever before, the German night fighter force was beginning to dictate tactics to Bomber Command which were necessary to its protection and yet seriously antagonistic to the effectiveness of its assault. But worse was to follow, for it soon appeared not only that Bomber Command casualties were failing to respond satisfactorily to these diversionary tactics but that they were actually increasing. This was due to a yet more serious development in the tactics of the German night fighter force which made the controller less dependent upon prediction and enabled him to rely more upon observation. In 1 See above, Vol. II, p. 153. 2 This led to the decision to form 100 Group in November 1943. 129 the autumn of 1943 the method of concentrated interception at the target began to give way to the aim of so