o the whole system from the Combined Chiefs of Staff downwards. But it was drawn from him at a time of controversy between his own advisers in S.H.A.E.F. and the C.S.T.C. and its working committee on communications. Tedder to Bottomley, 8th March 1945, Min. Bottomley to Portal, 9th March 1945. 217 (b) INTRIGUE AND IMPROVISATION IN GERMANY Speer maintained his position as Minister of Production and Arma- ments to the end of this last period. But he was engaged in a struggle with his enemies in high places; he had to yield to them areas of control and share his duties with them to some extent. Hitler refused to part with Speer until, two days before his death, he appointed Saur in Speer's place in his will. But Speer had from the beginning of this period less of Hitler's confidence and found it more and more difficult to obtain the decisions which he required for his work. Gradually he began to ignore or defy his leader and even claims that he planned to murder him. It is difficult to discover both in what manner exactly his position was weakened or how it was that Hitler allowed him to go on at all. For some of his assertions there is ample evidence in the contemporary documents which he handed over to the investigators. But for others there are only his own statements in the interrogations. Nevertheless, the impression of candour that Speer made on many of his interlocutors has to be remembered. If there are inconsistencies in his accounts and those of his subordinates that was inevitable in so prolonged an examination which dealt with such complicated matters. Here all that need be said is what is necessary to give the background of the final collapse of the German economy as a result of the Combined Bomber Offensive. Speer's position had begun to deteriorate at the very beginning of this period. Even at the end of 1943 he had found it more easy to deal with Hitler by reports than by personal interviews which often led to exhausting argument.1 In February 1944 he b