s, was devoted to marshalling yards and other railway targets, and Bomber Command played an important part in the ultimate demise of the German navy by con- tinuing to attack its bases. In one of these operations, which took place on the night of 9th April, the pocket battleship Admiral Scheer was capsized in the course of an attack on the shipping yards at Kiel.1 But from all these tasks of tremendous destruction which Bomber Command could at last so amply fulfil, the force was soon able to turn to the agreeable duty of bringing home thousands of prisoners of war, among whom were many who had themselves flown with Bomber Command in its less prosperous times. in Germany and occupied territory. Latterly, as in the case of the Bielefeld Viaduct, they were often used in combination with Grand Slams. Targets destroyed in this way included the Arnsberg Bridge, see the photograph following p. 238, a few miles from the Möhne Dam (Eight Grand Slams in two attacks), Arbergen Bridge (Two Grand Slams), Nienburg Bridge (Five Grand Slams), see the photograph facing p. 239, and Bremen Bridge (Five Grand Slams). 1 Bomber Command Review 1945, and O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Report.  CHAPTER XIV T THE CULMINATION OF THE OFFENSIVE: APPRECIATIONS AND RESULTS I. Changes in allied methods of appreciation and the German response to allied bombing 2. The attack on oil 3. The attack on communications 4. The direct attack 'The fact that the operations of the immense Strategical Air Forces are supposed to be directed by a committee advised by a series of committees and sub-committees is so remarkable and constitutes such a unique method of conducting military operations that there is no risk of its being forgotten.' SIR ARTHUR TEDDER to Sir Norman Bottomley, 8th March 1945 'The continuous attacks directed by the enemy against the Ruhr are having the most serious effect on our entire armament and war production. In addition to the bomb- ing of production plants in the Ruhr, the systematic attacks c