ectacular decline upon which the Luftwaffe had now entered both by day and night, he claimed that the 'comparative freedom from casualties' which Bomber Command had recently enjoyed had been 'mainly due to foxing the enemy by such methods'. To illustrate the point Sir Arthur Harris referred to the successful attack which had been carried out on the Dortmund-Ems Canal and remarked that the next related and logical target would be the Rothensee Ship Lift, but he said he could not despatch his specialised force upon that task without giving it 'very heavy cover'. He went on to explain that the 'very heavy cover' required would mean 'putting an incendiary and H.E. attack of great weight on some neighbouring city such as Magdeburg or Halle-or both'. This novel and ingenious reason for continuing the general area offensive on an apparently operational argument was not very con- vincing. It ignored the decline in the effectiveness of the German defences and it overlooked the fact that when it was intended to  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 82 THE REWARD OF DISSENSION divert the German defences, the normal method was to mount a com- paratively small-scale feint, to make a number of attacks on widely separated targets, or to employ ruses in the approach of the main attack itself. The suggestion that in order to attack the Rothensee Ship Lift it was also operationally necessary to destroy Magdeburg and Halle was, in fact, somewhat unconvincing, but it did at least have the merit of making abundantly clear Sir Arthur Harris' stra- tegic intentions. Magdeburg and Halle, as he stated later in the same letter, were now, in fact, the two towns which stood at the head of those listed by Sir Arthur Harris for destruction. But Sir Arthur Harris did not rest his case solely upon what were given the appear- ance of being operational arguments. 'In Bomber Command', he said, 'we have always worked on the principle that bombing any- thing in Germany is better than bombing nothing'. This, indeed,