hly informed account, myth and misconception have grown and been unassailed. Some of that, it may be hoped, has been corrected in this work. But no one would claim that the field is yet fully explored. In the West we still know relatively little from Russian sources of the great events on the Russian front which at times affected Bomber Command and 1 The Times, 17th May 1945. 284 THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE 285 which Bomber Command at times was intended to affect. Further investigation is needed of many of Bomber Command's supporting services such as aircraft design and production, technical and aircrew training and the organisation of the force. Some questions about the German air defences and how they were overcome are still uncertain, and there may be scope for further research in the mass of German economic and industrial material. There are, in addition, some broad problems arising from the relationship of the strategic air offensive to other campaigns and, notably, the Battle of the Atlantic and the in- vasion of Normandy, which have not yet been fully resolved. Even so, the main facts of the Bomber Command part in the strategic air offensive seem to be established, though further research and analysis may well have some effect upon the conclusions drawn. Bomber Command entered the war quite unprepared for the task before it and deficient in nearly everything except the spirit of its crews, the conviction of the Air Staff that an offensive was necessary to victory, the knowledge that bigger and better aircraft would eventually appear and the guarantee of reinforcement which was provided by the creation of the Empire Air Training Scheme. The penalty of unpreparedness was a severe and a prolonged one. The aircraft of Bomber Command and their crews had not the means of defending themselves against the enemy fighters in daylight nor of finding and hitting their targets with anything like the expected degree of precision in darkness. The bombs which they carried we