n and improvisation mobilised by the Germans. It meant, as had long been recognised, that the offensive was necessarily one of attrition in which the cumulative effect over a period of years was the only important result to be expected. But it was this latter factor which had provided the opportunity for active defence against bomb- ing. The fact that Bomber Command had to engage in a war of attrition and that it could, therefore, only secure its objects by an offensive sustained over a period of years meant that the German fighter force was afforded an opportunity of waging a somewhat simi- lar war of attrition against the attacking bombers. Though these German fighters never developed the ability to intercept, let alone destroy, the whole of major attacking forces and, on the contrary, could only shoot down a relatively small percentage of the bombers on each occasion, it was clear that these casualties, if inflicted con- stantly over a long period, might well ultimately disrupt Bomber Command or at least deny it the ability to maintain an adequate concentration and continuity in its offensive. Thus, as had been so much more obvious in the case of the American day offensive, the British night offensive was more than a battle between destruction and repair. It was also a race between the rate of attrition inflicted by the bombers upon the German economy and that inflicted upon them by the German fighters, and as the Battle of Berlin came to an end, it was by no means clear that the bombers were winning. These possibilities had, of course, been more than evident both to the Air Staff and to Sir Arthur Harris. The Commander-in-Chief had sought by many means to neutralise the German night fighter force. He had introduced tactical measures of evasion and deception which were backed by the provision of scientific devices both of simplicity and also of extraordinary complexity. Sir Arthur Harris had also, on a number of occasions, vigorously appealed for long-range night