fficult for our heavy bombers to interfere with these enemy movements by direct attack on their lines of retreat. The targets are at extreme range from U.K. and Mediterranean bases; precise Intelligence as to movements is not available; and it would be inadvisable to make attacks within the Russians' tactical area without prior consultation and co- ordination. I feel strongly that the best use of our heavy bombers at the present time lies in maintaining the attack upon German oil plants whenever the weather permits. The benefits of these attacks are felt equally by the Russians and by ourselves and nothing should be allowed to interfere with them. There may, however, be occasions when the weather is unsuitable for attacks on the comparatively small targets presented by the oil plants but yet would permit area attacks on Eastern Germany. These opportunities might be used to exploit the present situation by the bombing of Berlin and other large cities in Eastern Germany such as Leipzig, Dresden and Chemnitz, which are not only the administrative centres controlling the military and civilian move- ments but are also the main communications centres through which the bulk of the traffic moves. To achieve results of real value, a series of heavy attacks would probably be required, and weather conditions at this time of year would certainly prevent these being delivered in quick succession. The possibility of these attacks being delivered on the scale necessary to have a critical effect on the situation in Eastern Germany is now under examination.' 1 This minute, it will be noticed, was cautious. It showed that the question of the suggested area attacks on east German towns was still under consideration and it left a doubt as to whether these operations would actually be carried out. After all, neither General Spaatz nor Sir Arthur Tedder had yet been consulted and the matter had not yet been put before the Vice-Chiefs of Staff. Indeed, in the light of what 1 Min. Sinclair