production of the aircraft industry and the actual number of aircraft accepted by the Luftwaffe. Even this last figure, though based on authentic records, is disputable. The figure for 1945 cannot be ascertained even approximately, but thousands of aircraft must have been destroyed on the ground while production was being rapidly reduced. Since the total number of combat aircraft produced in 1944 was reported as 36,000, the loss in that year was not in any case of decisive importance. The most important effect was exerted at the time of the invasion, when more German aircraft would have been available, if the attacks in the earlier part of the year had not taken place, though only at the expense of using up more aviation spirit, thus leaving less to be used in subsequent months. But, as has been indicated, the increase in production in 1944 did not produce a corresponding increase in the Luftwaffe front line. The losses reported by the Luftwaffe did not account for the discrepancy between the number of aircraft accepted by them and the number available for service, which amounted to nearly 10,000 aircraft. Various reasons have been given for it. Speer himself said that there was no problem and that the allied air forces destroyed the aircraft in the air or on the ground as fast as they were made. Large numbers were, indeed, destroyed by the bombing of the airfields and the losses never reported in the official lists. This explanation seems to have been accepted by the post-war surveys and it is, perhaps, the true one, though no great confidence can be placed in the figures for the second half of 1944.3 What seems quite clear is that large numbers of aircraft O Bremen HOLLAND O HAM Ki GE , R Weser o Hanover MEHLE. ALFELDO · ELZE . LAMSI · LAN The Ruhr · Essen MUNCHEN GLADBACH WERNIGEROD RHUMSPRINGE OERSHAUSENO IMMENHAUSENO BELGIUM o Cologne WALDECK® WEGA NIEC O KASSEL OKHOLZHAUSEN OGRIFTE ·MELSUNGEN REMSFELD ZIEGENHAINO OBERUSEL O Frankfurt O Mannheim O EISEN HERSFEL