f the bomber effort should be devoted to the defensive and less to the offensive. Thus, at the outset of the campaign Bomber Command was called upon to direct its attacks towards a reduction in the scale of the German bomber offensive. Later it was directed to give high priority to the reduction of the German submarine campaign. Vast efforts were devoted to the attack on V-weapon production and operation and many other similarly defensive commitments had to be met, though often it was obvious that the result would not be commensurate with the effort expended and always the offensive effort was correspondingly reduced. Finally, there was the constant demand, which also was often S.A.O .- VOL. III, Pt. 5-U  CONCLUDING SURVEY 296 THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE effective, for the diversion of the force to the auxiliary purposes of strategic and tactical support of the armies and navies, which not only changed the pattern of Bomber Command operations but often re- tarded the expansion of and sometimes even reduced the front line strength of the force. Some of these diversions for defensive and auxiliary purposes pro- duced profitable results. The German V-weapon campaign, for ex- ample, was retarded and its eventual scale was somewhat reduced by bomber action. The great diversion in preparation for and in support of Overlord produced indispensable military advantages for the invad- ing armies, but whether successful or not, these and other less justifi- able diversions did seriously impede the development of the offensive and, had it not been for the convinced persistence of the Air Staff and the Commander-in-Chief, might have subdued it altogether. All strategy depends on whether it is operationally possible. If it is seen that the operations in use are not effective for their purpose the decision has to be made whether to proceed with the strategy and find new and more successful operational methods or change the strategy to conform with what is operationally possible. It