ter defences.' Greater accuracy, it seemed, could be expected in daylight attacks upon small targets, 'particularly those of a tactical nature.' The potentialities of 617 Squadron and of the new Tallboy earthquake bomb might be more fully exploited in daylight than in darkness. 1 Letter Harris to Evill, 7th April 1944. 2 Letter Bottomley to Harris, 18th April 1944. If there was an emergency in the course of the invasion, the ability to bomb by day would make it possible to increase the scale of effort for a short time against certain critical targets. Finally, the increasing success of the German night fighter force might eventually make a change over to daylight bombing necessary in order to reduce casualties. Sir Arthur Harris was far from convinced by these arguments. Daylight operations by Bomber Command would, he thought, be uneconomical unless carried out in clear weather because in cloudy weather they would be no more accurate than night attacks and they would be pointless unless mounted on a scale to produce a material reinforcement of the American effort. If the first condition was fulfilled, he considered that the casualties would be prohibitive owing, in addition to the increased flak risk, to the vulnerability to enemy fighters of heavy aircraft equipped only with ·303 guns. No fighter escort, Sir Arthur Harris observed, could ever provide con- tinuous cover. If the second condition was fulfilled the night offensive would be gravely weakened and the effects of 'round the clock' bombing greatly diminished. The argument that German night fighter successes might develop to such an extent that day bombing would become inevitable was, in Sir Arthur Harris' view, more important. All the same, he did not regard it as valid. Improved turrets and radar warning devices would, he believed, quickly redress the disadvantageous position of the night bombers and he thought it would be better to concentrate on the production of such equip- ment and devices rather than t