use which momentarily gave rise to a rumour at Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expeditionary Force, that the French railway campaign had been abandoned, 1 General Eisenhower declared that these political arguments could not be allowed to overrule the mili- tary necessities of the situation. Nevertheless, General Eisenhower told Mr. Churchill that he had postponed attacks on two railway centres in Paris until within a few days of the invasion and he said that he might be able similarly to put off some other projected opera- tions in the more heavily populated areas. Even these measures were regarded as a military handicap. Any direct use of air power in preparation for Overlord would, General Eisenhower pointed out, in- evitably result in the killing of French civilians. He mentioned the fact that the bombing operations in 1943 against the Biscay ports had had this unfortunate effect,2 but he did not expect that the French railway campaign would result in as many as ten to fifteen thousand deaths before D-Day.3 As to Mr. Churchill's objections to the plan itself, General Eisenhower thought that these arose from a misunder- standing. The object of bombing marshalling yards and other key points in the railway system before D-Day was not, in itself, to stop German military traffic. It was to disorganise the railways so that the tactical operations after the invasion would be more effective in creating particular stoppages and delays.4 The Prime Minister was still not satisfied. He had not been made less anxious by the fact that Bomber Command was playing the leading part in the railway plan which, he thought, would have the effect of Britain incurring greater odium than the United States in France.5 On 7th May, Mr. Churchill sent a message to President Roosevelt in which he said that despite the declared support for the plan of General Eisenhower, Sir Charles Portal and Sir Arthur Tedder it found no favour with himself and that the British Govern- ment was seriously distur