ccess of area attacks, like the one against Königsberg which has just been mentioned, did not depend upon the introduction of new weapons. In the Königsberg operation the attacking force dropped about 135 tons of high explosive and about 345 tons of incendiary bombs. The fire-raising technique, introduced in 1941, was still the standard procedure of Bomber Command in area attacks and the principal means of achieving it was still the four-pound incendiary bomb. This weapon, though now dropped in ingeniously designed clusters with a reasonable ballistic performance, was essen- tially the same as that with which Bomber Command had begun the campaign against German cities.2 The greatly increased area 1 O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Report. For the night photographic plot see Map 5. The damage at Stettin was not so severe, but it seemed that 34,000 people had been made homeless. In addition, three merchant vessels were sunk in the port. These targets were selected with a view to the disruption of German communications with the Russian front. This was the second attack on Königsberg within a week. Stettin had also been bombed on the night of 16th August. 2 A.H.B. Monograph. A thirty-pound liquid-filled incendiary weapon known as the 'J' bomb was operationally introduced in the 5 Group attack on Brunswick on the night of 22nd April 1944. It was not a success and Sir Arthur Harris later heard after its further use that the Germans were picking up large numbers of duds and using the fuel in their M.T. vehicles. bombing efficiency was produced by the high standards of accuracy which had been achieved as a result of the new techniques, such as 5 Group visual marking and the introduction or more widespread use of equipment, such as the Very High Frequency Radio Telephone, which made those techniques possible. The result was that the distinc- tion between area and precision bombing was no longer so much one between the accuracy of attack, as the object of attack. Nevertheless, this deve