acks, were mostly against targets in the Ruhr area. Also like the day attacks, they generally achieved a high degree of success at the cost of only a very low missing rate. There were, however, two operations which called for the tactics of deep penetration bombing. These were against the oil plants at Leuna on the night of 6th December and Pölitz on that of 21st December. On the first occasion the Pathfinder Force led an attack by Lancasters and Halifaxes from 1, 4 and 6 Groups. The Newhaven marking was well placed, but nine- to ten-tenths cloud extending up to 10,000 and in places to 14,000 feet caused the bombing force considerable diffi- culties. Nevertheless, on the evidence of photographic reconnaissance, it appeared that considerable damage had been done to this im- portant installation. The operation against Pölitz was carried out by a smaller force from 5 Group. Though the weather was clear at the target the marking did not fall quite as intended. The plant was hit but it seemed unlikely on the evidence available at the time that it had suffered serious damage on this occasion. Shorter range bombing was still more consistently accurate than that at long range. A month earlier, for example, on the night of 2 1st November, the Pathfinder Force led a controlled Oboe ground marking attack on the oil plant at Castrop Rauxel by Lancasters from 1 and 6 Groups. Both marking and bombing must have been accurate and con- centrated for 'extremely severe damage' was seen to have been caused throughout the plant. Almost every individual building was 1 For the result of this attack see the photograph facing p. 167. 2 Bomber Command Interception/Tactics Reports and Photographic Interpretation Reports for Oct., Nov. and Dec. 1944. The bombing of oil plants by Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force was more frequent than the photographic reconnaissance of them. It was, therefore, not possible to make reliable and detailed estimates of the results of individual attacks. This