reasons, though, as has also been seen, he was from time to time 1 Min. Portal to Sinclair, 5th Aug. 1941, and letter Eden to Sinclair, 15th April 1942. 2 Correspondence with Sinclair, 21st May and 26th May 1942.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY I16 ANTI-CLIMAX AND CLIMAX discouraged on strategic grounds. The events leading to the attack on Dresden have been fully described. Nevertheless, the view that the Air Staff, and even Sir Arthur Harris himself, were ultimately responsible for the decision to carry out what was, perhaps, not inaccurately, described as 'terror bombing" had grown up more or less pari passu with the development of the bombing offensive. This was undoubtedly at least partly attributable to the nature of the frequent public and in some cases private pro- nouncements which Sir Archibald Sinclair found it his duty to make. In these he did not concede that one of the objects of area bombing was the reduction of civilian and especially industrial morale by the bombing of housing and public utilities and so, of course, of the populations themselves. He usually, and, on public occasions, in- variably, suggested that Bomber Command was aiming at military or industrial installations as, of course, it sometimes was. He did not conceal that severe and sometimes vast damage was done to residen- tial areas, but he either implied, or on some occasions said, that all this was incidental and even regrettable. Only in this way, he explained to Sir Charles Portal in October 1943, could he satisfy the enquiries of the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Moderator of the Church of Scotland and other significant religious leaders whose moral con- demnation of the bombing offensive might, he observed, disturb the morale of Bomber Command crews. This latter consideration was, the Secretary of State thought, more important than another which Sir Arthur Harris had raised, namely, that the Bomber Command crews might form the impression that they were being asked to per- form deeds whic