arity. The initial handicaps of Bomber Command as regards both its efficiency and its size were very severe and had prolonged effects. They were due to a combination of dilatoriness, financial stringency and the fact that air warfare was a new conception. The crippling effects of this were unnecessarily prolonged as far as efficiency was concerned by a parallel dilatoriness in establishing the means of measuring opera- tional capacity and acting on the lessons learned. The expansion of the force and its qualitative improvement was also delayed by the pressure of other war requirements, the failure of the Manchester and the partial failures of the Stirling and the Halifax as well as by the slowness with which the bomber potential of the Mosquito was recognised. Bomber Command, in consequence, was long denied any significant success. Moreover the task of achieving success was a much greater one than had initially been expected and long continued to be believed. Germany was a nation of far stronger morale and greater industrial strength and ingenuity than had been anticipated. In addition, the possibilities both of active and passive defence against bombing proved to be far more effective than supposed. The cardinal failure of British air strategy and operational doctrine was the failure to devise adequate means of overcoming the enemy air force and creating the conditions of air superiority, and, until this defect was at last repaired, the policy of reducing German air power by attack- ing its sources of production proved to be no more profitable and in some ways less so than other aspects of the strategic air offensive. The force of the offensive was also blunted by the failure to achieve a proper concentration of effort. Diversions, both necessary and unnecessary, were on an immense scale, there were profound and enduring differences of opinion about what the main aim should be  CONCLUDING SURVEY 310 THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE and the system of higher direction was