means of neutralising this potential German advantage. Like Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory he did not, however, believe that this great object could be achieved by a short burst of tactical bomb- ing at the time of the invasion. On the contrary, he envisaged and advocated a massive and sustained strategic offensive against key points in the railway system and against the railway repair organisa- tion which was ultimately designed not merely to isolate the Nor- mandy area, or even to isolate France from Germany, but to dislocate the entire railway system of German Europe.1 Though Sir Arthur Tedder did not draw attention to the point at this particular time, it was quite clear that as far as Overlord was concerned, the principal aim of this strategic railway attack was to create a situation in which the later tactical operations designed to knock out particular trains and to cut particular lines would be effective, because, by that time, the Germans would no longer have the mobility or the resources to deal even with comparatively minor damage. The implications of Sir Arthur Tedder's advice did, however, em- brace a great deal more than the immediate and initial requirements of Overlord. They postulated a new direction for the entire strategic air offensive. The dislocation of the railway system in German Europe might later lead to the dislocation of German industry and the aims of the Pointblank offensive might thereby be achieved. Thus, the conflict between Pointblank and Overlord might be resolved by the application of the same bombing policy to both. This was the strategy 1 Memo. by Tedder, 24th March 1944.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 32 BASES OF VICTORY AND DISSENSION of the common denominator, but it could still be argued that the same common objects might be achieved by the destruction of Ger- man oil production. This too would immobilise the German armed forces and eventually German industries as well. The immediate decision between Sir Arthur Tedder's railway plan a