ut- standing as this achievement was, it cannot really be compared to the feats which had more than a year earlier resulted in the breaching of the Möhne and Eder dams. There was, however, one notable respect in which the Dortmund-Ems Canal attack was more effective. When it was over, Bomber Command stood ready to destroy the banks again when the Germans had repaired them and this, in fact, was to be done, not once but several times. 2 Thus, by the autumn of 1944, Bomber Command had developed a paralysing power of attack which, in all but the most exceptional circumstances, could accurately be brought to bear by day and by night against targets large and small and near and far. Nor was there much that the German air defences could any longer do to disrupt or disperse the operations of Bomber Command. Strategic bombing, of course, still had its limitations. Some kinds of weather could defeat the most ingenious plans and the most advanced equipment and some targets proved to be substantially invulnerable even to the most powerful bombs. Nevertheless, Bomber Command in conjunction with the United States Strategic Air Forces now, for the first time in the war, had the operational capacity for decisive action and, in the remaining months of the strategic air offensive, that undoubtedly is what was achieved. 13. The Gravenhorst section of the Mittelland Canal after attack on the night of 2 Ist November 1944. 1 For the canal before and after this attack see the photograph following p. 166. 2 No. 5 Bomber Group, pp. 235-240, O.R.S.(B.C.) Nt. Raid Report and O.R.B. (617 Sqdn.) 23rd September 1944. 14. The Gravenhorst section of the Mittelland Canal two weeks after the attack on the night of Ist January 1945.  15. The Ladbergen section of the Dortmund-Ems Canal after the Bomber Command attack on Ist January 1945. This shows the western portion of the canal. 16. Marshalling yards at Giessen after attacks in December 1944 by Bomber Com- mand and the United States 8th Air Force.