p and boom. The smoke screen now thickened and no one could be sure of what was happening, but the attack went on with the flak bursts from the Tirpitz as the aiming point. Various crew reports suggested that the ship might have been hit by at least some of the seventeen Tallboys which went down, but neither Wing Commander Tait nor Wing Commander Bazin could see enough to make any definite report.2 All but one of the bombers regained their base at Yagodnik, but the film Lancaster flew straight on from the scene of the operation 1 For an illustration of the prevailing conditions see the photograph facing p. 238. 2 O.R.B. (617 and 9 Sqdns.), 11th and 15th Sept. 1944.  THE OPERATIONAL CLIMAX SPITZBERGEN ARCTIC. OCEAN Alten Fjord N Tromso Fjords F Map 8 Archangel O Yagodnik N 5 W N ARCTIC CIRCLE Trondheim Fjord 0 m Z ndhein ATLANTIC OCEAN Oslo Bergen Knaben Oslo Fjord Lossiemouth DENMARK SEA UNITED KINGDOM NORTH 0 Wilhelmshaven Waddington The Destruction of the Tirpitz Scale (APPROX) 200 300 400 500 MILES 100 aEx 195 to England and landed at Waddington, though without conclusive evidence, after a flight of some fourteen and a half hours. No sooner was this epic Bomber Command action over than cloud began to blow up Alten fjord, and when the reconnaissance Mosquito got there about two hours after the attack, its pilot was able to catch only a fleeting glimpse of the Tirpitz. All he could deduce was the depressing fact that the ship was still afloat. Five days later a photo- graph was produced which suggested that the ship had been hit, but the picture was of poor quality and the extent of the damage could not be determined. 1 The Tirpitz smoke screen at Alten fjord had prevented the crews of 617 and 9 Squadrons from seeing what they had achieved, but it had not prevented them from achieving it. The battleship had, in fact, sustained all but mortal damage, which the Germans estimated would have taken nine months to repair, even if she could be got back to a German port. T