ttacks upon Cologne and Bochum, both of which had been questioned by Sir Charles Portal on the grounds that neither target had any connection with the oil plan. Though he again questioned the accuracy of the in- telligence upon which the oil plan was based and though he once more emphasised his view of the operational difficulties which stood in the way of its execution, the Commander-in-Chief did, neverthe- less, make some apparent concessions. He told Sir Charles Portal that he agreed 'about the urgency and effectiveness of the oil plan', and he regretted that it should be thought that he did not 'understand the importance of the oil war, because that is entirely wrong'.2 Sir Charles Portal, however, evidently and, perhaps, excusably, had some difficulty in reconciling these assurances with the earlier com- ments of Sir Arthur Harris and also, no doubt, with the actual con- duct of Bomber Command operations. At any rate, in a further letter of 12th November 1944, the Chief of the Air Staff sought to penetrate to the foundations of the issue. He admitted the difficulties which confronted the Commander-in-Chief in attempting to reconcile the factors of weather, tactics and target priorities and he conceded that the decision 'must lie with you alone'. On the other hand, it was, he said, his duty to see that Bomber Command lost no opportunity of 1 Letter Portal to Harris, 5th Nov. 1944. 2 Letter Harris to Portal, 6th Nov. 1944.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 84 THE REWARD OF DISSENSION 'attacking the primary targets which are laid down in the directive'. The issue, he continued, was a more fundamental one than the question of whether in two instances, namely the Cologne and Bochum operations, Sir Arthur Harris had taken a right or a wrong decision. It, in fact, Sir Charles Portal now suggested, was concerned with broader matters. 'In the closing paragraphs of your letter of Ist November', Sir Charles Portal wrote: 'you refer to a plan for the destruction of the 60 leading G