llied armies closed round it. As has been seen, the trans- port of its coal to the rest of Germany had long been drastically reduced. Nevertheless, the facts already given show clearly enough that the destruction of the communications of the Reich was from the last months of 1944, and possibly earlier, the most important factor in the precipitate decline of production that then occurred, though not on that of oil and ammunition, which was mainly due to the direct attack on the oil industry itself. But, though this is true, the decline in production was not immedi- ately, except in a few respects, translated into a shortage of weapons for the German fighting forces. In some cases there was a shortage, as in the supply of tanks, since so many had been lost in battle that those fresh from the factory were urgently demanded. Even when they were obtained, however, there was often not sufficient oil to enable them to be used. But in the case of the majority of weapons there was still a supply in the depots. The first effect of the lack of transport was in the inability to place them in the hands of the divisions actually fighting. At the close of the war, indeed, several depots were found full of large stocks of all kinds.1 Here, however, the effect was often mainly due to the attacks of the tactical air forces and would have occurred if the strategic offensive had not taken place. There were other indirect effects of the strategic offensive. One of the most important was the destruction of the railway telephone and telegraph services and, as the attack gathered momentum, of the postal services as well. The effect on the administration of the rail- ways themselves was catastrophic. In the report already referred to it is stated that 'the destruction of Reichsbahn administrative offices and the railway telephone system had caused rail zones to become cut off from one another and from the central administration for days at a time, rendering any ordered co-ordination of traf