r interception which were produced by the in- vention of radar and the development of high-performance aircraft such as the Hurricane, the Spitfire and the Messerschmitt 109. Yet these prospects were revealed by the development of Fighter Com- mand in which, since 1938, the principal hope of resisting a German bombing offensive had resided. Obviously, the handicap to Bomber Command of going to war under such conditions was a severe one and obviously it was more severe than it need have been. The result was that, in daylight, opera- tions could not be sustained without prohibitive casualties and that, in darkness, the targets could seldom be found let alone hit. There was also the deplorable fact that crews habitually found themselves above the oxygen height without oxygen supplies, in the freezing zone without de-icing equipment on the wings or heating within the cockpits and with their vital but dangerous petrol loads at the mercy of a single bullet. In addition, their bombs, which in relation to their German equivalents were of inefficient destructive power, all too often did not detonate at all. Nor were these and other omissions rapidly repaired once the war  CONCLUDING SURVEY 298 THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE had begun. On the contrary, the limitations of the force were only gradually discovered, and for more than two years Bomber Com- mand, in spite of a few remarkable successes, was to a great extent lost in the dark, the haze and the searchlight glare. But the frustrat- ing experience of those two years did at last produce remedies, and in the course of 1942 a series of radical advances took place ranging from the introduction of radar as an aid to navigation and bomb aim- ing, to the creation of the Pathfinder Force and the reorganisation of the aircrew with a single pilot and a separate navigator and bomb aimer. In addition, the front line was increasingly equipped with new aircraft among which were included the Lancaster and the Mosquito. Not less important