, which amounted to the same thing. This process had begun long ago in a few cases such as those of aircraft production and V-weapons. It was now considered by some as the last resource of the Reich. There was great competition for the available space, that in natural caves and pits and that specially built for the purpose. The aircraft industry had first resorted to it on a large scale after the attack in February 1944. Speer entrusted its direction to a special plenipotentiary2 and, in addition to aircraft, ball-bearings and other aircraft equipment, there was added to the list optical glass, ship- building, tanks, motor car and locomotive construction, and muni- tions and weapons of various kinds. The oil emergency dictator planned a large programme for the oil industries, but in this case the technical difficulties were great and the process began too late for much to be accomplished. Huge bunkers were erected for the final assembly of the new U-boats. Immense quantities of labour and materials were directed to this work and as a result of the effect of bombs upon the fortifications of the Atlantic Wall the thickness of the concrete was much increased. Generally only German workers were employed in underground factories, either because they could produce more or because they insisted on being given the protection such sites afforded.3 No doubt all this did preserve some important 1 Trial of German Major War Criminals, Part 17, pp. 57-58. 2 Dr. Heinz Wegener, who gave an account of his work in an interrogation. 3 Trial of German Major War Criminals, Part 16, p. 394. The statistics as to the amount of space planned for and actually occupied by underground construction are, as might be imagined was inevitable in the circumstances, confused and contradictory. According to Frydag (former Generaldirektor of Heinkel and Head of the Aircraft Construction Committee), twenty per cent of all aircraft construction, including all that for the Me.262, the new jet aircraft, ha