of defending themselves against the enemy fighters in daylight nor of finding and hitting their targets with anything like the expected degree of precision in darkness. The bombs which they carried were less efficient than their German counterparts. Several of the aircraft were incapable of long-range operations and others were unsuited to that role. The appreciation of the operational capacities of the force was greatly over-optimistic as also was that of the vulnerability of the German war economy to the attacks which could be brought to bear against it. Thus, with means far less effective than expected, Bomber Com- mand had to undertake a task far more formidable than expected. It took more than four years to realise and to close the gap. The stages of this development are well defined. Initially, even before the real offensive had begun, the plan for daylight precision bombing against selected key targets had to be abandoned because of the strength of the German air defences. Then in the course of 1940 and 1941 the same attempt at night had to be abandoned because of the inaccuracy of night bombing. This led in the course of 1941 to the gradual adoption of the policy of general area attack upon the largest German towns and, in 1942, to the introduction of new equipment, a larger proportion of incendiary bombs and specialised tactics to make that form of attack efficient. The circumstances of this process were often discouraging. Many disappointments and mounting casualties were suffered. The force  CONCLUDING SURVEY 286 was repeatedly diverted to other tasks at which it was even less pro- ficient. But the offensive was maintained. By 1943 it had been re- inforced by thousands of new crews from Britain, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and from many other parts of the Commonwealth as well as from some of the allied countries which had fallen under the German yoke. It had received much new equipment in the shape of radar aids, better bombs and superior aircraft incl