ives' were then listed 'counter Air Force action' to which, in view of the decline of the Luft- waffe, less significance was attached than hitherto, 'direct support of land operations' which, in an emergency, were to have overriding priority and 'Berlin and other industrial areas', which were to be attacked 'by both Bomber Command R.A.F. and U.S.St.A.F.E. (the latter using blind bombing technique as necessary) whenever weather or tactical conditions are suitable for such operations and unsuitable for operation against the primary objectives'. Also under this heading were the usual provisos about targets in south-east Europe, Special Operations Executive activities and units of the German fleet. 3 The United States Chiefs of Staff, however, felt that the directive should not be addressed to General Spaatz and Sir Arthur Harris, 1 C.C.S. Mtg., Chateau Frontenac Hotel, Quebec, 12th Sept. 1944. 2 Memo. U.S. J.C.S. for C.C.S., 13th Sept. 1944. 3 British draft directive attached as enclosure to C.O.S. memo. of 12th Sept. 1944.  THE STRATEGY OF VICTORY 62 OIL, COMMUNICATIONS AND MORALE but to General Spaatz and Sir Norman Bottomley in their capacity as representatives of General Arnold and Sir Charles Portal. In the first two paragraphs of the draft which they proposed, they, therefore, announced the command changes to which they had just agreed. They altered the phrasing of the paragraph defining the overall mis- sion so as to include the 'direct support of land and naval forces' and instead of listing the four primary objectives which had appeared in the British draft they simply said that objectives were to be attacked 'in the order of priority now established by the Supreme Commander, Allied Expeditionary Force', and added that a new directive should be issued when it was decided to change these priorities. From the British list of 'other objectives', the American Chiefs of Staff omitted Berlin and other industrial areas.1 In a further memorandum of 14th September 1944