s before the Joint Committee on the Pearl  Harbor Attack  (1946), Pt. II, p. 5488.*  The Japanese code had been broken by the U.S. Army & Navy  Intelligence, and throughout the negotiations all messages between  Tokyo and Washington were at once translated and sent to the White  House. It remained broken throughout the war.*  The Second W orld W ar,  Vol. I ll, pp. 539-40.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 276 --- The first of these decisive conferences assembled at Washing­ton in late December 1941; it was code-named ‘Arcadia’. To attend it, Churchill left England on the 12th, and while at sea he received a report from his Foreign Secretary, Mr Anthony Eden, then in Moscow, on his first conversation with Stalin, a statesman who never fell into the error of looking upon war as anything other than an instrument of policy.From Eden’s report Churchill learnt that Stalin had broached  to him what he considered should be the shape of post-war  Europe. He proposed that Germany should be split into a  number of small independent states; that the Baltic States,  Finland and Bessarabia, as they were before Hitler invaded  Russia, should be restored to the Soviet Union; and that the  ‘Curzon Line’ should be accepted as the Soviet-Polish frontier.1The main problems discussed at the Conference were the  conduct of the war and its aim. To direct strategy, the British  Chiefs of Staff, or their representatives, were combined with  the American Joint Chiefs of Staff in a committee known as  the Combined Chiefs of Staff, with its headquarters in Wash­ington. This was an eminently sound decision; but throughout  the war unanimity was frequently impeded by the systems of  control adopted by the two heads of state. While Churchill  looked upon his Chiefs of Staff as the instruments of his will,  Roosevelt treated his as free agents. The result was that,  while much of the time of the British Chiefs of Staff was occupied  in wrangles with Churchill, the Americans were given so fre