ce that was in him ___He liked to fancy himself as a practical,down-to-earth, horse-sense realist-he often used to say  “Winston and Uncle Joe and I get along well together because  we’re all realists ” - and yet his idealism was actually no less  empyrean than Woodrow Wilson’s.’1Should this description be a just one, it would appear that  the American President possessed none of the qualities  demanded by Napoleon to direct the grand operations of war.During the days of the New Deal many Communists saw in it an instrument which would assist them, and Roosevelt col­laborated with them because, through their control of the American Labour Party, they held the balance of power in New York State, and also were a major factor in the industrial states of Ohio, Illinois and Pennsylvania. Although it paid him handsomely when, in 1940, he was elected to a third term, it gathered around him some strange characters, among whom was Harry Hopkins.2  He was a moribund ex-social worker, vain, ambitious and gullible, who on 10th May 1940, was invited to take up his residence in the White House, and a year later was appointed by the President to administer Lend- Lease, a duty which endowed him with the authority of de facto  Deputy President.3  The President, writes General Albert 1  The White House Papers of Harry L. Hopkins , Robert E. Sherwood  (English edition, 1948), Vol. I, p. 10. The American edition is entitled  Roosevelt and Hopkins: An Intimate History .2  Churchill rated him ‘high among the Paladins’, and Representative  Dewey Short of Missouri called him ‘the White House Rasputin’.8  See Sherwood, Vol. I, p. 267.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 272 --- C. Wedemeyer, was ‘surrounded by intriguers and soft-on- communism eggheads who enjoyed his wife’s patronage and were given formidable power by Harry Hopkins and others in the President’s confidence.’ Another dupe was General George C. Marshall, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army, an honest and simple man who, Wedemey