ate France, in 1879 he concluded with Austria a defensive treaty known as the Dual Alliance, which two years later was joined by Italy, which was outraged by the French occupation of Tunisia; the Dual Alliance then became the Triple Alliance. In 1888 William II succeeded to the German throne; two years later he dismissed Bismarck, and France alarmed by his capricious and bellicose behaviour entered into negotiations with Russia, which between 1893 and 1895 matured into a defensive agreement -  the Dual Alliance.Thus two opposing alliances came into being; nevertheless, as long as Great Britain was not party to either, the peace of Europe remained firm. Unfortunately this happy situation was not to last, because the rapid expansion of German overseas trade and the growth of her merchant service increasingly 1  The Russo-Japanese War: Reports from British Officers  (1908), Vol.  I ll, p. 117.*  Ibid., Vol. I ll, pp. 209-10.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 147 --- 144 THE CONDUCT OF WAR challenged British commerce.1  Further, in order to protect German overseas trade and catch up with France’s naval pre­ponderance, in 1898 the Kaiser increased the size of the Ger­man Navy, and in 1900, when Britain was occupied in South Africa, he did so again. This led to an uproar in the British press.In this challenge is revealed one of the root causes of war -  the economic struggle for existence. Neither Germany nor Great Britain were in the wrong; it was not their respective cupidities or ambitions which brought them at loggerheads, it was the Industrial Revolution which made them competi­tors. It had so multiplied their populations that without foreign trade each would be beset by unemployment and eventually reduced to starvation level. When, in 1919, John Maynard Keynes looked back on the First World War, he wrote: ‘The politics of power are inevitable, and there is nothing very new to learn about this war or the end it was fought for; England had destroyed, as in each p