uced to the lowest point consistent with domestic safety.’(5) ‘A free, open-minded and absolute impartial adjustment of colonial claims based upon a strict observance of the principle that in determining all such questions of sovereignty the interest of the populations concerned must have equal weight with the equitable claims of the Government whose title is to be determined.’(6) ‘The evacuation of all Russian territory . . .  Russia to be given unhampered and unembarrassed opportunity for the independent determination of her own political development and national policy.’ Russia to be welcome in the League of Nations and to be given all possible assistance.(7) Belgium to be evacuated and restored.(8) France to be evacuated, the invaded portions restored and Alsace-Lorraine returned to her.(9) ‘A readjustment of the frontiers of Italy should be effected along clearly recognisable lines of nationality.’(10) ‘The peoples of Austria Hungary . . .  to be accorded the freest opportunity for autonomous development.’ (Sub­sequently modified to complete independence.)(11) Rumania, Serbia and Montenegro to be evacuated, 886  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 340 --- APPENDIX II 3 3 7 occupied territories to be restored. Serbia to be given free access to the sea.(12) The Turkish portions of the Ottoman Empire to be assured a secure sovereignty. Subject nationalities to be assured security and unmolested opportunity of auto­nomous development. Freedom of the Straits to be guaranteed.(13) An independent Polish State to be erected ‘which should include the territories inhabited by indisputably Polish populations, which should be assured a free and secure access to the sea.’(14) A general association of nations to be formed under specific covenants ‘for the purpose of affording mutual guarantees of political independence and territorial integrity to great and small States alike.’ The Four Principles ,  11th February 1918 (1) ‘Each part of the final settlement must be based u