eace and War , p. 368.8  The Second World Warf  Vol. VI, pp. 552-3. On p. 553 Churchill  states the he has never doubted that Truman was right to use the bomb,  and six pages on he writes: Japan's ‘defeat was certain before the first  bomb fell.’  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 304 --- islands of Japan had been surrendered, unless Russia should enter the war.’1Before the conference assembled, all the messages between Tokyo and Sato in Moscow were deciphered in Washington,2  and on 13th July the following dispatch from the Japanese Foreign Minister to Sato came through: ‘See Molotov before departure for Potsdam ,. . .  Convey his Majesty’s strong desire to secure a termination of the w ar.. . .  Unconditional sur­render is the only obstacle to peace... .’3  Although this made Japan’s desperate position crystal clear and opened the road to an immediate end of the war, on 26th July the following ultimatum was presented to Japan: ‘We call upon the Govern­ment of Japan to proclaim now the unconditional surrender of all the Japanese armed forces.. . .  The alternative for Japan is complete and utter destruction.’4  Not a word was said about the Emperor.Two days later Suzuki rejected the ultimatum; he announced that it was ‘unworthy of public notice’.5  It was then decided, in order to cover Russia’s entrance into the war, which had been fixed for 8th August, to drop two atomic bombs, one on Hiroshima on 6th August, and the other on Nagasaki on 9th August. So it came about that, at 8.15 a.m. on Monday, 6th August, a ball of fire appeared over the north-western centre of Hiroshima. Its explosive force was equivalent to 20,000 tons of T.N.T.; at its centre its temperature was about150,000,000°C. -  about ten times greater than the tem­perature at the solar centre’,6  and the pressure exerted was estimated at hundreds of thousands of tons to the square inch. A ‘fire-storm’  resulted in which hundreds of fires were simul­taneously started; the most distant was 4,600 yar