ause- witz’s On War  is never mentioned, Jomini’s Summary of the 1  Numbers and Losses in the Civil War  (edit. 1957), p. 63. There are  several other estimates, but all vary and some considerably.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 107 --- 104 THE CONDUCT OF WAR Art of War  was to be found in many a knapsack. In Napoleon’s day, the flintlock musket had an effective range of at most 100 yards, and as it was outranged by cannon firing grape or canister, the gun was the superior weapon. But in 1861 the musket had been superseded by the Minie rifle, which had an effective range of at least 500 yards, and as it outranged grape and canister fire, tactics underwent a profound change. The gun had to fall back behind the infantry, and became a support instead of an assault weapon, and the infantry fire-fight opened at 500 yards range, instead of 100. The results of this long-range fire-fighting were that the bayonet assault died out, individual good shooting was more effective than volley firing, and for full effectiveness it demanded individual initiative and collective loose order.Two of the outstanding tactical characteristics of the war were: (1) The futility of frontal assaults, and (2) the demand for field entrenchments, and both were a consequence of the rifle bullet.On every occasion, a frontal assault delivered against an unshaken enemy led to costly failure. Nevertheless, neither side learnt this lesson. At Fredericksburg, on 13th December 1862, the Federals, under Burnside, delivered a massed frontal assault on the Confederates, under Lee, and were ignomini- ously repulsed; at Gettysburg, on 3rd July 1863, Lee delivered a massed frontal assault on the Federals, under Meade, and was disastrously thrown back; and at Cold Harbor, on 3rd June 1864, Grant repeated the same blunder and with identical results.Throughout the war, the spade increasingly became the complement of the rifle, until, in 1864, every battle fought between Grant and Lee in the Wilderness of V