pe.’2  Nevertheless, the German General Staff was fully aware of  Lenin’s aim.So it came about that the Rubicon of World Revolution was  crossed; Lenin and his army of nineteen followers steamed out  of Berne fully intent, not only to wreck the Provisional  Government, but also to carry on a revolutionary struggle  against the German bourgeoisie. Immediately before his de­parture he wrote to the Swiss workers: ‘We w ill. . . carry on  a revolutionary struggle against the Germans. . . .  The German  proletariat is the most trustworthy, the most reliable ally of  the Russian and the world proletarian revolutions.’3Lenin arrived in Petrograd on the night of 16th April, and 1  See Selected Works , pp. 735-42 for the First Letter.2  War Diaries and other Papers,  Major-General Max Hoffmann,  (English edition, 1929), Vol. II, p. 177.8  Collected Works , Vol. XX, pp. 85. 87.LENIN AND THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION 1 8 5  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 189 --- 186 THE CONDUCT OF WAR on the following day he addressed the All-Russian Conference of Soviets. He demanded widespread propaganda in the army, in order to convert the war from an imperialist into a pro­letarian one; the overthrow of the Provisonal Government and its replacement by ‘A republic of Soviets of Workers’, Agri­cultural Labourers’  and Peasants’  Deputies’. From then on, daily, almost hourly, he harangued the Petrograd crowds, fanned revolt, inveighed against the war, and promised all and sundry whatever they desired.At length, on 1st July, in order to honour their word, the Provisional Government resumed the offensive against Ger­many. At first it met with success, but when, on the 19th, the Germans counter-attacked, by then Bolshevik agents, planted by Lenin in the Russian divisions, had so completely under­mined the loyalty of the soldiers that regiment after regiment mutinied, murdered their officers and then disbanded. This and the simultaneous declaration of autonomy on the part of the Ukraine led to th