ow-pipe prevented the escape of air past it (windage).In 1836, Mr Greener, a London gunsmith, improved on Norton’s bullet by inserting a conoidal wooden plug into its base. Although both inventions were rejected by the Ordnance Department, the idea was taken up in France, and in 1849 M. Minie adopted Greener’s design and produced the deadly Mini 6 bullet. The British Government then paid Minie £20,000 for his patent, and Greener got £1,000 for having supplied him with the idea. In 1851 the Minie rifle was issued to the British army, and in the Kaffir War of 1852 it was discovered that ‘at a range of from twelve to thirteen hundred yards small bodies of Kaffirs could be dispersed.’2  These two inventions made the rifle the most deadly weapon of the century.While other nations were wrangling over the merits and demerits of the flintlock and percussion cap muzzle-loaders, in 1841 Prussia took a bold step forward and issued to certain regiments the Dreyse breech-loading rifle, better known as the ‘needle-gun’, a bolt-operated weapon which fired a paper cartridge. Because of escape of gas at the breech, its range was considerably less than that of the Minie rifle; but it could fire seven shots a minute to the Minie two. Its main advantage 1  ‘Dispatch of Lieut.-General Lord Viscount Gough’, London Gazette , 8th October 1841.2  A History of the British Army , J. W. Fortescue (1927), Vol. XII,  p. 561. The idea of rifling was old and dated back to 1631. The main  trouble was that the crude gunpowder used fouled the rifling after a few  shots, and in consequence made loading difficult.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 92 --- was, however, not rapidity of loading; it was that a breech- operated rifle can freely be loaded when the rifleman is lying down; this had a most demoralizing effect on the Austrians in 1866.1On account of cost, the development of artillery was slower than that of the rifle, and although breech-loading and the rifling of cannon were as separate id