improved machinery and increased numbers used in mass, instead of in driblets, the stalemate might be broken. This is borne out by the German account which said, ‘that their men felt powerless to withstand the tanks’2  —  that is, felt themselves disarmed. Unfortunately this was not appreciated by the British High Command, with the result that, until the Battle of Cambrai, tanks continued to be used in driblets.At Cambrai, the aim was to effect a surprise penetration of four lines of entrenchments in twelve hours without any kind of preliminary artillery preparation. Nine battalions of tanks, in all 378 fighting machines, were to lead two infantry corps over the Hindenburg (Siegfried) Line, the most formidable en­trenched system on the Western Front. It was protected by immensely deep fields of wire, many on the reverse slopes, and to cut them would have required several weeks’  bombardment and scores of thousands of tons of shells.The assault was launched over undamaged ground at 6.20 a.m. on 20th November 1917. The enemy broke back in panic, and by 4 p.m., from a base of 18,000 yards, a penetration of 1  See The Tanks, the History of the Royal Tank Regiment and its  Predecessors,  Captain B. H. Liddell Hart (1959), Vol. I, Chap. II.*  Ibid., Vol. I, p. 75.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 175  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 179 --- 176 THE CONDUCT OF WAR 10,000 yards had been effected. At the Third Battle of Ypres an equivalent advance without penetration took over three months. Eight thousand prisoners and one hundred guns were captured; the prisoners alone numbered nearly double the casualties sustained by the two attacking corps.Although lack of reserves led to the battle ending in a severe repulse, there could no longer be any doubt that the re- introduction of armour on the battlefield, as mooted by Jomini nearly a century earlier, could solve the stalemate, and the decisive battle of Amiens, fought on 8th August 1918, proved this conclusively.In it 462 fight