ge warfare, the aim was to kill all enemy males and abduct the women and children. This has been improved upon by the invention of weapons which make discrimination between the victims impossible -  slaughter is now on total lines. 1  Davie, op. tit., p. 17.2  Cyropaedia,  I, VI, 27-28. 3  j  334^ 4  Part I, Chap. XIII.5  Edit. 1772, Vol. II, p. 273.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 44 --- Man as he is can only be explained by man as he was, and never by man as we would like him to be -  the wishful thought of the pacifist. He is the product of the thousands upon thousands of generations of savage and bloodthirsty progeni­tors, who have bequeathed to him his instincts. Fear, the most potent of all, is the sentinel of barbarous and civilized man alike; it remains the oldest of protective mechanisms, and becomes manifested in every child before the end of its third month.1  Extermination was the greatest dread of the tribal mind, and in no previous age has so great a dread of it possessed man’s mind as in the present one.Toynbee’s question is now answered. The motive force of democracy is not love of others, it is the hate of all outside the tribe, faction, party or nation. The ‘general will’  predicates total war, and hate is the most puissant of recruiters. 1  This Human Nature , Charles Duff (1917), p. 41.THE REBIRTH OF UNLIMITED WAR 41  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 45 --- C H A P T E R  I I I Napoleonic Warfare * 1 *  Napoleon Bonaparte Because the authority of a government, whatever be its character, is based on physical force,1  the primary aim in a revolution is either to gain the support of or to disintegrate the military forces. In the first case, the revolution assumes the form of a coup d'etat , and. is seldom more than a limited confusion. In the second, it establishes an anarchy, and how­ever fervently the people may support the revolutionary ideals, anarchy is the one thing they will not for long tolerate, and when it prevails they readily