this policy has been brilliantly successful so far. But our joint embargo is steadily forcing the Japanese to decisions for peace or war.’2  A fortnight later the Japanese Government made up its mind, and a proposal for a general settlement was received in Washington on 20th November. Its basis was:The withdrawal of Japanese troops from French Indo-China upon an equitable peace in the Pacific Area; the mutual restora­tion of commercial relations between Japan and the United States; the willingness of the United States to supply Japan with oil; and the undertaking of the United States to refrain from such measures and actions as might be prejudicial to the restoration of peace between Japan and China.On Monday 25th November, these proposals were con­sidered by the President and his War Cabinet, and an account of this meeting is given by Henry L. Simson, Secretary of War, in his Diary . It reads:‘. .. at 12 o’clock we (viz.,  General Marshall and I) went to the White House.. . .  There the President brought up . . .  the relations with the Japanese. He brought up the event that we were likely to be attacked perhaps (as soon as) next Monday.. . .  The question was what should we do. The question was 1  See Appendix III. At an inter-allied meeting, held in London on  24th September 1941, the Charter was formally adopted by the govern­ments of Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Greece, Luxemburg, the Nether­lands, Norway, Poland, Russia, Yugoslavia, and the Free French  (Defeat in Victory , Jan Ciechanowski, pp. 61-62).2  The Second World War,  Vol. I ll, pp. 526-7.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 275 --- 272 THE CONDUCT OF WAR how we should manoeuver them into the position of firing the  first shot without allowing too much danger to ourselves.’1  Although it was known from intercepted secret Japanese  messages2  that the proposals of 20th November were final, a  ten point memorandum was prepared by Cordell Hull, Secre­tary of State, and on 26th November it was handed to t