struggle.’ Time and again this should have been pointed out to the  Soviet ‘double-talkers’.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 220 --- CHAPTER X II The Twenty Years Armistice * 1 •  The Carthaginian Peace In 1930, with twelve years of chaos to look back upon, Ferrero remarked in a lecture that ‘Our civilization can make war well enough, but it has forgotten how to make peace.’1  Actually, it was unable to make peace, because it had forgotten how to make war. War had lost its significance, and when the cease­fire sounded, its means monopolized its end. All that happened was, the conflict continued in another form; therefore there could be no peace.This was true, not only for Lenin who, as we have seen, looked  upon peace as an instrument of subversion, but also for the  victors of the war who, as we shall now see, converted peace  into an instrument of domination. To both the end was the  same -  the subjection of their respective antagonists; to both  the means were akin -  compulsion. The one undermined his  victim’s resistance by psychological attack, the other by  economic attack in the form of the blockade, which was main­tained till July 1919, and like a pistol was pressed against the  victim’s back until he put his signature to a dictated peace  treaty.2  This was an act of profound stupidity, because, as  Vattel had pointed out 160 years earlier, an unsupportable  peace is an oppression a nation will only endure as long as it 1  Peace and War  (1933), p. 148.*  During the last two years of the war, over one million non-combatants  in Germany and Austria died of starvation. On 13th December 1918,  when the Germans pleaded to be allowed to import wheat, fats, con­densed milk, medical stores, etc., their plea was rejected. In Bohemia,  in February 1919, 20 per cent, of the babies were bom dead, and 40 per  cent, died within the first month of birth. Only in March 1919, when  Lord Plumer, G.O.C. British Army of the Rhine, informed the British  Government tha