have to seek his battlefields in spheres of conflict other than in the physical. With reference to this, the reader is asked to bear in mind that the stalemate problem of the First World War was not ultimately solved by physical means but by economic -  the blockade of the Central Powers. 3 • Policies and the Cold War What do we mean by ‘cold war’? The answer was given as long ago as 1651 by Thomas Hobbes in Chapter X III of his Leviathan:‘Warre consisteth not in Battell onely’, he wrote, ‘or the act of fighting; but in a tract of time, wherein the Will to contend by Battell is sufficiently known: and therefore the notion of Time , is to be considered in the nature of Warre; as it is in the nature of Weather. For as the nature of Foule weather, lyeth not in a showre or two of rain; but in an inclina­tion thereto of many dayes together; So the nature of War, consisteth not in actuall fighting; but in the known disposi­tion thereto, during all the time there is no assurance to the contrary. All other time is PEACE.’Today, the only difference is that, since his day, the dis­position to fight has been extended more deeply into the moral 1  The most notable exception is the pacifist, whose irrational faith  in the elimination of war by the simple process of renouncing it has  been rationalized by the introduction of nuclear weapons. Of all people  he should welcome these deterrents; instead he fanatically opposes them.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 321 --- 3 1 8 THE CONDUCT OF WAR and economic fields of strife, which, as Hobbes must have been aware, have always been the foundations of the physical conflict. Although in cold war the physical struggle is re­stricted rather than excluded, its main aim is to undermine its foundations, and the more they are undermined the less the need to batter down the edifice they support. In this there is nothing new, as a simple example will make clear. A walled city can be physically attacked by battering down its walls; econom