iled to concentrate their  armoured forces on the Belgian frontier; they had ample means  to do so, because their tanks, both numerically and technically,  were superior to the German. But instead of concentrating  them in armoured divisions, they distributed them as infantry  support units. This was a crucial tactical error, and alone is  sufficient to account for the French debacle.In Great Britain, tactical theory was even more Rip-Van- Winkle-like than in France. Secure behind their natural Maginot Wall -  the English Channel -  the British Government and General Staff went to sleep for twenty years, and not until Hitler was thundering against Poland, did they wake up, and on 26th April 1939, reintroduce conscription. The tactical theory was that the first phase of World War I would repeat itself; therefore there would be ample time for a blockade of Germany to become effective. Meanwhile the Air Force would bomb German industrial cities and her civil population. For some unknown reason this was called ‘Strategic Bombing’; it was based on Douhet’s theory. Of armoured divisions there was only one available, part of which was in England when the Germans invaded France.Although the Russians carefully studied Douhet’s and the writer’s tactical theories, they neither adopted the former nor understood the latter. In May 1937, a month before he was liquidated in Stalin’s enormous purge of 1937-1938, which gutted the Russian Army,1  Marshal Tukhachevski wrote in the BoVshevik: 1  The total number of victims was 35,000, or about half the officer  corps: 3 out of 5 marshals; 13 out of 15 army commanders; 57 out of 85  corps commanders; 110 out of 195 division commanders; 220 out of 406  brigade commanders, and 30,000 officers below the rank of colonel (See  The Communist Party of the Soviet Union ; Leonard Schapiro (1960),  p. 420).  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 250 --- ‘The swift growth of our aviation, tanks and mechanized  formations at first also provoked som