y to Poland (Vol. V, pp. 319, 351).2  This entailed the expulsion of some 15,000,000 people, and even at  the time of the Conference they were being hounded out. It was carried  out in so ruthless a way that, according to Stolper (p. 26), roughly  6,000,000 were eventually unaccounted for.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 3 0 7  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 311 --- 3 0 8 THE CONDUCT OF WAR many can ever become self-supporting under the “level of in­dustry” plan within the borders envisioned at present for Germany. A still further illusion is that Europe as a whole can recover without the economic recovery of Germany. . . . We can keep Germany in these economic chains but it will also keep Europe in rags.’1This was the authentic voice of America; but the greatest illusion of all was President Roosevelt’s ‘hunch’.When the tragedy of Europe is viewed in retrospect, without fear of contradiction it may be said that it was indeed the black day in Europe’s history when, on 6th April 1917, the United States became involved in the first of the world wars. I t led to the dictated Peace of Versailles, a veritable Pandora’s box, out of which emerged yet another world war. The second intervention was even more disastrous, it led to no peace at all, instead to a perpetual state of ‘wardom’  -  of Hobbesian fear.The reason for this has nothing to do with cupidity, which has precipitated so many European wars, because the Ameri­cans have never coveted an acre of Europe’s land. Instead it was due to their failure to understand that war is an instru­ment of policy. They did not know how to wage war, and in consequence they did not know how to make peace. They looked upon war as a lethal game in which the trophy was victory.The first fatal step was taken at the Arcadia Conference, at which the cloud-cuckoo land of President Roosevelt’s ‘Great Design’  was substituted for a well-reasoned grand strategical policy. Yet, strange to relate, at about the same time a Yale professor, Nich