Commander-in-Chief of the British Air Force in France. The following are a few citations from it: m a y  14: ‘The Germans have walked through 5 miles of fortifications in depth with a loss of probably 500 m en.. . .  When the dive-bombers came down on them [the French] they stood the noise -  there were hardly any casualties -  for only two hours, and then bolted out with their hands over their ears.’ m a y  15: ‘Sedan fell as the result of air bombardment.. . .  It was a superb example of the military precept known as surprise.’ m a y  16: ‘The whole development of the southern front in these 7 days has been so fast and has been conducted on such unorthodox principles -  principles of neck or nothing to the nth degree -  that it is hard to believe the situation is so pre­carious as it is in fact.’ m a y  17: ‘It is Poland over again.’  [The French General  Staff did not consider that the blitz tactics resorted to in  Poland could be applied in the more broken terrain of France.] m a y  18: ‘They would have us believe that the Battle of the  Marne will be fought again, but do they believe it themselves?  . . .  The pace is too fast and the battle of movement has comeinto its own again It is the co-operation between the dive-bombers and the armoured divisions that is winning the war  for Germany.’ m a y  19: ‘News that the Panzers  are in Amiens [probably a reconnaissance group]. This is like some ridiculous nightmare.  . . .  The Germans have taken every risk -  criminally foolish  risks -  and they have got away with i t .. . .  The French  General Staff have been paralysed by this unorthodox war of  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 262 --- movement. The fluid conditions prevailing are not dealt with in the textbooks and the 1914 brains of the French Generals responsible for formulating the plans of the allied armies are incapable of functioning in this new and astonishing lay-out.’1 m a y  22: ‘Our one and only armoured division was landed in  France yesterda