rn . . .  didn’t order this, but can’t be helped. I say Jeff. Davis burnt  them .’2‘General advised V very kindly (in tone) to bring all he could of corn, wheat, etc. into his house , for safety from the soldiers.’3What a confession of impotence!On 21st December Savannah fell to Sherman’s pillaging horde, now followed by thousands of plundering negroes. The next day he presented it as a Christmas gift to President Lincoln. Then the Carolinas were devastated. In Georgia Sherman estimates the damage done at $100,000,000 of which only $20,000,000 ‘inured to our advantage’; the remainder was ‘simple waste and destruction.’4This savagery was resented by many of Sherman’s officers, notably Generals J. C. Davis, H. W. Slocum, J. R. Hawley and J. Kilpatrick, and Hitchcock himself considered it morally wrong.5  Ropes, the historian, correctly points out that, ‘mili­tary operations are not carried on for the purpose of inflicting punishment for political offences’, and therefore, ‘if Sherman purposely destroyed, or connived at the destruction of, property which was not needed for the supply of his army or of the enemy’s army, he violated one of the fundamental canons of modern warfare; and . . . conducted war on obsolete and 1  Ibid., p. 83.2  Ibid., p. 53.8  Ibid., p. 83.4  The War of the Rebellion , etc., Vol. XCII, p. 13. ‘In nearly allhis [Sherman’s] dispatches after he had reached the sea, he  gloated over the destruction of property’  (Rhode’s History of the United  States , Vol. V, p. 22).6  Op. cit, pp. 86-7 and 92-3.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 114 --- THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR 1 8 6 1 - 1 8 6 5  111 barbarous principles.’  And he rightly points out that the depredations of Sherman’s army as a punishment for political conduct had little influence on Grant’s operations in Virginia.3 6 * Results of the War One of the strangest things about Sherman is, that on the plinth of his statue at Washington are inscribed the noble words he once uttered: ‘The legitimate o