osely agreed with  the President’s ‘hunch’. They suggest a policy of ultra­appeasement. Not of two ill-prepared Powers faced with a  better prepared one, as at Munich, but of the two greatest  industrial powers in the world, at the time rapidly approaching  full rearmament, faced with an unreliable partner crippled by  over two years of ferocious warfare, and almost entirely 1  The ideas expressed in it bear a marked similarity to those in an  earlier memorandum prepared by General James H. Bums for Hopkins.  Sherwood observes that this memorandum ‘was an excellent statement  of Hopkins’ own views on the subject of relations with the Soviet  Union’ ( The White House Papers,  Vol. II, pp. 689-42). If so, then it  looks as if the document, if not written by Hopkins, was inspired by  him. *  Ibid., Vol. II, pp. 744-5.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 292 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 8 9 dependent on their assistance to maintain his armies in the  field. Actually, in August 1943, the position of Russia was  diametrically opposite to the one posited in the Hopkins  document.That the President blindly accepted this submissive policy is understandable, but that Churchill did not reject it out-of- hand is inexplicable. On 21st October 1942, he had told his Foreign Secretary: ‘It would be a measureless disaster if Russian barbarism overlaid the culture and independence of the aiicient States of Europe.’1  Yet, three months later, he flew from Casablanca to Adana to induce Mr Saracoglu, the Turkish Prime Minister, to join in the war on the grounds that Russia’s intentions were both peaceful and friendly, and that he would not be a friend of Russia if he thought she would imitate Germany.2Immediately after the Quebec Conference, the Balkans  begin to bulk largely in Churchill’s mind. He says that it was  never his wish to send an army into them,3  nor can his inten­tion have been to forestall an eventual Russian occupation, be­cause when in September he sent a missi