onal, which had collapsed in 1914.2The instructions issued by the First Congress of the Comin­tern clearly show the danger the Soviet Union was then in;  they urged the workers of the world to demand of their respec­tive governments: The termination of intervention in Russia;  non-interference in Russia’s domestic affairs; resumption of  diplomatic relations with Russia; the invitation of Russia to  the Peace Conference; the lifting of the economic blockade,  and the resumption of trade with Russia. But nothing came  of this, in part because the Communist Parties, engaged in  their factional squabbles, were as impotent to foment revo­lution as the proletariat in Russia had been to rule.Disillusioned by the incompetence of the proletriat, once the civil war had ended, Lenin shifted his faith to the Party, and in April-May 1920, wrote a thesis entitled ‘Left Wing Communism, an Infantile Disorder’. It was addressed to all the Communist Parties affiliated to the Third International, and its aim was to convert them into an operative revolutionary instrument. In it he pointed out that, ‘unless the strictest, 1  Ibid., Vol. II, p. 297.2  The Second International accepted the philosophy of the Liberal  State combined with Marx’s economic policy, and believed in the peace­ful evolution of Socialism. On the outbreak of war in 1914, it split into  two groups, ‘Social Patriots’ who supported the war, and ‘Social  Pacifists’  who opposed it; neither was pledged to international revolution.SOVIET REVOLUTIONARY WARFARE 2 0 9  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 213 --- 210 THE CONDUCT OF WAR truly iron discipline’  is inculcated in the Parties, victory over the bourgeoisie is impossible. Next, he asked: How is discipline to be enforced? And his answer was:‘First, by the class consciousness of the proletarian vanguard [i.e., the Party], and by its devotion to the revolution, by its perseverance, self-sacrifice and heroism. Secondly, by its ability to link itself w ith . . .  to m