9). . .. ‘For the future of the  German nation the 1914 frontiers are of no significance’  (p. 530).This being so, Hitler continues: 1  In 1935 he made use of almost identical words in a conversation  with the writer.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 234 --- ‘We National Socialists, must stick firmly to the aim that we have set for our foreign policy; namely that the German people must be assured the territorial area which is necessary for it to exist on this earth.1  And only for such action as is undertaken to secure those ends can it be lawful in the eyes of God and our German posterity to allow the blood of our people to be shed once again.. . .  For no nation on earth possesses a square yard of ground and soil by decree of a higher Will and in virtue of a higher Right. The German frontiers are the out­come of chance and are only temporary frontiers that have been established as the result of political struggles which took place at various times’  (p. 531).Then comes the denouement  which was to startle the world in 1941:‘To-day we are all convinced of the necessity of regulating our situation in regard to France; but our success here will be ineffective in its broad results if the general aims of our foreign policy will have to stop at that. It can have significance only if it serves to cover our flank in the struggle for the extension of territory which is necessary for the existence of our people in Europe’  (p. 532).‘Therefore we National Socialists have purposely drawn the  line through the line of conduct followed by pre-War Germany  in foreign policy. We put an end to the perpetual Germanic  march towards the South and West of Europe and turn our  eyes towards the lands of the East. We finally put a stop to  the colonial and trade policy of pre-War times, and pass over  to the territorial policy of the future.’‘But when we speak of new territory in Europe to-day we must principally think of Russia and the border States subject to her’  (p. 533).‘For