chill once had called ‘an  ‘experimental horror.’1 8 •  The Architects of Disaster The debacle of the Axis forces in the battle of Tunis, 6th-12th May 1943, was only second in importance to the German disaster at Stalingrad; it brought the war in North Africa to an end, and it opened the road to Sicily, which was invaded by Anglo-American forces on 10th July. Fifteen days later a palace revolt in Rome led to the fall of Mussolini, and from then on until 2nd September a wrangle between his successor, Marshal Pietro Badoglio, and the Western Allies over the meaning of ‘unconditional surrender’  gained for Hitler time sufficient to pour thirteen divisions into Italy, and convert, what Churchill had called the Axial ‘soft under-belly’  into a crocodile’s back.2On 17th August, when the wrangle was at its height, the First Quebec Conference assembled. It gave priority to ‘Overlord’, and agreed on 1st May 1944 as the date of the invasion of Northern France. Also, in face of British oppo­sition, an American proposal was provisionally accepted; it was that the landing in Northern France should be supple­mented by a landing on the French Riviera, the forces needed for it to be withdrawn from the Army of Italy. This operation was code-named ‘Anvil’.An item, mentioned neither by Churchill nor by Field-  Marshal Alanbrooke, which figures prominently in Sherwood’s  account of the conference, ‘is a document headed “Russia’s  Position”, which was quoted from “a very high level United  States military strategic estimate”.’  It was produced at the  conference by Hopkins, and whatever may have been its 1  The Second World War , Vol. I, p. 168.*  At Casablanca Churchill had acclaimed ‘unconditional surrender’  to  be ‘perfect’; but on 9th August he changed his mind, in a cable to his  Foreign Secretary he urged: ‘Merely harping on “unconditional sur­render” with no prospect of m ercy. . .  may well lead to no surrender  at all’ (The Second World War , Vol. V, p. 91).THE CONDUCT OF WORL