racy, to the gradual creation of an order, an order without quotation marks, which will be different from wage-slavery, an order inLENIN AND THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION 1 8 7  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 191 --- 1 8 8 THE CONDUCT OF WAR which the functions of control and accounting -  becoming more and more simple -  will be performed by each in turn, will then become a habit and will finally die out as the special  functions of a special section of the population’  (p. 174).‘. .. it is constantly forgotten that the abolition of the state means also the abolition of democracy.. . .‘Democracy is a state which recognises the subordination of  the minority to the majority, i.e., an organization for the  systematic use of violence  by one class against the other, by  one section of the population against another.‘We set ourselves the ultimate aim of abolishing the state, i.e.., all organized and systematic violence, all use of violence against man in general. We do not expect the advent of an order of society in which the principle of the subordination of the minority to the majority will not be observed. B ut in striving for Socialism we are convinced it will develop into Communism and, hence, that the need for violence against people in general, the need for the subjection  of one man to another . . .  will vanish, since people will become accustomed  to observing the elementary conditions of social life without force  and without subordination ’  (p. 197).‘Only in Coipmunist society, when the resistance of the capitalists has been completely broken, when the capitalists have disappeared, when there are no classes {i.e., when there is no difference between the members of society as regards their relation to the social means of production), only then does “the state . . .  cease to exist”, and it “ becomes possible to speak  of freedom ”. Only then will really complete democracy, democracy without any exceptions, be possible and be realised’(p. 201).‘Finally, only