er of many of his speeches, depicts him as follows:‘Frances Perkins has written of Roosevelt that he was “the  most complicated human being I ever knew”. Henry Morgen-  thau, Jr., has written: “Roosevelt is an extraordinary person  to describe.. . .  Weary as well as buoyant, frivolous as well  as grave, evasive as well as frank. . .  a man of bewildering  complexity of moods and motives.” Miss Perkins and Morgen-  thau were members of Roosevelt’s Cabinet and knew him far  longer and better than I did. But I saw enough of him, particu­larly in hours when he was off parade and relaxed, to be able  to say “Amen!” to their statements on his complexity. Being  a writer by trade, I tried continually to study him, to try to  look beyond his charming and amusing and warmly affectionate  surface into his heavily forested interior. But I could never 1  The Tragedy of Europe: A Day by Day Commentary on the Second  World War  (in five volumes), Francis Neilson (1940), Vol. I, p. 156.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 271 --- 268 THE CONDUCT OF WAR really understand what was going on in there. His character  was not only multiplex; it was contradictory to a bewildering  degree. He was hard and he was soft. At times he displayed a  capacity for vindictiveness which could be described as petty,  and at other times he demonstrated the Christian spirit of  forgiveness and charity in its purest form. He could be a  ruthless politician, but he was the champion of friends and  associates who for him were political liabilities, conspicuously  Harry Hopkins, and of causes which apparently competent  advisers assured him would constitute political suicide. He  could appear to be utterly cynical, worldly, illusionless, and  yet his religious faith was the strongest and most mysteriousforce that was in him ___He liked to fancy himself as a practical,down-to-earth, horse-sense realist-he often used to say  “Winston and Uncle Joe and I get along well together because  we’re all realists