urely  military conflict the reserves are to be found in the armed  population of the belligerent countries, in a revolutionary war  they are to be sought in the class antagonisms within the  enemy’s country: in his discontented proletariat, in the  liberation movements of his colonies and minorities, and in  the conflicts between his non-proletarian factions.It was for these purposes that from its inception the Red  Army was organized and trained not only as a military but  also as a revolutionary instrument. According to Pierre Fer- 1  Cited by Taraeouzio, op. cit., p. 28.2  Cited by Stalin in Problems of Leninism  (edit. 1954), p. 193.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 208 --- vacque, in 1920, when Tukhachevski invaded Poland, his army of 200,000 men was followed by a horde of 800,000 poli­ticians, police and pillagers, whose duty was to bolshevize the conquered territories, exterminate the wealthy and shoot all bourgeois and aristocrats.1  Although 800,000 is a tall figure to swallow, large numbers were undoubtedly employed,because Tukhachevski himself informs us that his army was preceded by an advance guard of propagandists, and Lord D’Abemon writes:‘Moscow disposed of a host of spies, propagandists, secret emissaries, and secret friends, who penetrated into Polish territory and undermined the resistance of certain elements of the Polish population. . .  the services rendered by the un­armed were not less effective than those brought about by military pressure. The system adopted was to avoid frontal attack whenever possible and to turn positions by flank marches, infiltration and propaganda.’2Finally, according to Lenin:War must be evaluated ‘not by the number of its casualties but by its political consequences. Above the interests of the individuals perishing and the suffering from war must stand the interests of the class. And if the war serves the interests of the proletariat, as a class and in toto,  and secures for it libera­tion from the [capitalis