king class against  the peasant bourgeoisie.. . . ’‘At first we support the peasantry in general against the landlords . . . but at the same time we support the proletariat against the peasantry in general. . .  we can and do say only one thing:  we shall put every effort into assisting the entire peasantry to make the democratic revolution, in order thereby  to make it easier  for us, the Party of the proletariat, to pass on, as quickly as possible, to the new and higher ta s k -th e  Socialist revolution.. . . ’‘. . . The urban and industrial proletariat will inevitably be the basic nucleus of our Social-Democratic Labour Party, but we must attract to it, enlighten and organize all toilers and all the exploited -  all without exception: handicraftsmen, paupers, beggars, servants, tramps, prostitutes -  of course, subject to the necessary and obligatory condition that they 384  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 338 --- APPENDIX I 3 3 5 join the Social-Democratic movement and not that the Social- Democratic movement joins them, that they adopt the stand­point of the proletariat and not that the proletariat adopts theirs’  (Selected Works,  Vol. I, pp. 441-3).  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 339 --- A P P E N D IX  I I President Wilson’s Fourteen Points ,  Four Principles  and Five Particulars The Fourteen Points ,  8th January 1918 (1) ‘Open covenants of peace openly arrived at, after which there shall be no private undertakings of any kind, but diplomacy shall proceed always frankly and in the public view.’(2) ‘Absolute freedom of navigation upon the seas outside territorial waters alike in peace and w ar.. . . ’(3) ‘The removal, as far as possible, of all economic bar­riers. . . . ’(4) ‘Adequate guarantees given and taken that national armaments will be reduced to the lowest point consistent with domestic safety.’(5) ‘A free, open-minded and absolute impartial adjustment of colonial claims based upon a strict observance of the principle that in determin