ousness of the proletarian vanguard [i.e., the Party], and by its devotion to the revolution, by its perseverance, self-sacrifice and heroism. Secondly, by its ability to link itself w ith . . .  to merge with the broadest masses of the toilers -  primarily with the proletariat, but also with the  non-proletarian  toiling masses. Thirdly, by the correctness of the political leadership exercised by this vanguard, by the correctness of its political strategy and tactics. . . . Without these conditions, discipline in a revolutionary party that is really capable of being a party of the advanced class, whose mission it is to overthrow the bourgeoisie and transform the whole of society, cannot be achieved.’1  He attacked the narrow sectarianism of the Communist Parties, whose attitude was that of uncompromising hostility towards all non-Communists. This, instead of subverting, only stiffened the ranks of the bourgeoisie. He called it ‘treachery to the revolution’, and held that to shun all compromise on principle was childish. To reinforce his argument, he singled out Comrade Sylvia Pankhurst, the notorious British sufra- gette, who held that:‘The Communist Party must not enter into compromise.. . .  The Communist Party must keep its doctrine p u re. . .  its mission is to lead the way, without stopping or turning, by the direct road to the Communist revolution.’‘ “To lead the way without compromise, without stopping or turning”,’  he declared, ‘if said by an obviously impotent minority of workers . . .  is obviously mistaken. I t is just as if10.000 soldiers were to fling themselves into battle against50.000 enemy soldiers, when it would have been wiser to “stop”, to “turn”, or even to effect a “compromise” pending the arrival of 100,000 reinforcements which were on their way but could not go into action immediately. That is intellectual childishness and not the serious tactics of a revolutionary class.’2 1  Selected Works , Vol. II, pp. 574-5.*  Ibid., Vol. II, pp. 620-