ould draw in  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 336 --- the Western Powers and compel Russia to intervene on her behalf. Next, she could put Mao Tse-tung’s boast to the gamble by resorting to nuclear warfare.This possibility must also be giving Khrushchev a headache, for although China may be able to afford the loss of 100,000,000 of her miserable people, a loss which for her would actually be a biological asset, anything approaching it would bio­logically be catastrophic for the Soviet Union.T H E  P R O B L E M  OF P E A C E  3 8 8  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 337 --- A P P E N D IX  I Lenin and the Peasantry Lenin’s outlook on the peasantry closely followed that of Marx, who despised them as ‘rural idiots’. It is made clear in his ‘Two Tactics of Social-Democracy’, a long pamphlet written in 1905, and in an article entitled ‘The Attitude of Social-Democracy toward the Peasant Movement’, published in the same year. The following extracts are from the latter: ‘. .. Let us assume that the peasant uprising has been victorious. The revolutionary peasant committees . . .  can pro­ceed to the confiscation of any big property. We are in favour of confiscation.. . . But to whom shall we recommend that the confiscated land be given? On this question we have not tied our hands nor shall we ever do so .. . .  There will always be reactionary admixtures in the peasant movement, and we declare war on them in advance . . .  to whom shall the con­fiscated lands be given, and how? We do not gloss over that question, nor do we promise equal distribution, “socializa­tion”, etc. What we do say is that this is a question we shall fight out later on, fight again on a new field and with other allies. Then, we shall certainly be with the rural pro­letariat, with the entire working class against  the peasant bourgeoisie.. . . ’‘At first we support the peasantry in general against the landlords . . . but at the same time we support the proletariat against the peasantry in ge