olph (1862), Vol. I, p. 86.*  Journals and Correspondence of Sir Henry Calvert  (1853), p. 220.*  Cited in Les Guerres de la Revolution,  A. Chuquet, Vol. II, p. 96.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 40 --- propaganda, to make an enduring peace. The peace treaties wrung from the vanquished were generally so unreasonable that they were no more than precarious armistices; the losers only signed them through duress, and with the full intention of repudiating them at the first opportunity.‘At the roots of this type of war, the war aux allures  dechainees\  writes Ferrero, ‘which the Revolution and the Empire thrust upon Europe, lies the psychological error of imagining that tremendous and crushing victories assist one to secure peace, whereas they really make it more difficult or even impossible to secure. This error is the key to the whole history of the Revolution, the Empire, and the nineteenth century up to our present confusions.’1 4 •  Democracy and Tribal Morality In Europe, with the exception of the Wars of Religion, which are near akin, wars aux allures dechainees  have been demo­cratic conflicts, which derived their elan from the ‘general will’. To quote Professor A. E. Freeman, the incessant wars between the democratic city-states of Classical Greece carried with them ‘havoc and devastation’, and ‘every kind of wanton ravage’.2  And, according to Sir Charles Oman, in the mediaeval wars of the democratic Swiss we find ‘an appalling ferocity, and a cynical disregard for the rights of all neighbours . .. [they] were distinguished for their deliberate and cold-blooded cruelty.’3  The behaviour of the democratic armies of the French Revolution -  as exemplified by Westermann’s conduct in La Vendee -  was no whit different. Therefore it is strange to find that Professor Arnold Toynbee is at a loss to understand why democracy which emerged ’ from the French Revolution, not merely failed to work against war ‘b u t. . .  positively put its “drive” into War.’  How