l scale of the means which we must put forth for War, we must think over the political object both on our own side and on the enemy’s side; we must con­sider the power and position of the enemy’s State as well as of our owm, the character of his Government and of his people, and the capacities of both, and all that again on our own side, and the political connections of other States, and the effect which war will produce on those States’  (III, p. 89). 5 •  Grand Strategy and the Centre of Gravity Because the essence of grand strategy is the subordination of strategy to policy, whatever policy may be, its fulfilment must be within the power of strategy to attain. Therefore, as Clausewitz says, ‘the political object. . .  must accommodate itself to [the] means’, and at times this ‘may involve modifica­tions in the political objective’. Nevertheless, whatever modi­fications may be agreed, policy retains its ‘prior right to consideration’  (I, p. 23).With reference to this interplay:‘. . . .  the first, the grandest, and most decisive act of  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 70 --- THE THEORIES OF CLAUSEWITZ 67 judgment which the Statesman and General exercises is rightly to understand . . . the War in which he engages, not to take it for something, or to wish to make of it something, which by the nature of its relations it is impossible for it to be’  (I, p. 25).Clausewitz goes on to say:‘War is . . .  not only chameleon-like in character, because it changes its colour in some degree in each particular case, but it is also, as a whole, in relation to the predominant tendencies which are in it, a wonderful trinity, composed of the original violence of its elements, hatred and animosity, which may be looked upon as blind instinct; of the play of probabili­ties and chance, which make it a free activity of the soul; and of the subordinate nature of a political instrument, by which it belongs purely to the reason.‘The first of these three phases concerns more the peop