om what his closest collaborators had to say of him:  ‘You cannot judge the P.M. by ordinary standards’, writes  General Lord Ismay, ‘he is not in the least like anyone that  you or I have ever met. He is a mass of contradictions. He is  either on the crest of a wave, or in the trough: either highly  laudatory, or bitterly condemnatory: either in an angelic  temper, or a hell of a rage: when he isn’t fast asleep he’s a  volcano. There are no half-measures in his make-up. He is a  child of nature with moods as variable as an April day... .’4 1  Ibid., Vol. I, p. 353. *  Ibid., Vol. I, p. 493.*  Corresp.,  Vol. XXXII, pp. 182-3.4  Cited in Auchinleck , John Connell (1959), pp. 472-473. From May  1940, to July 1945, Ismay was Churchill’s Chief of Staff in his capacity  as Minister of Defence.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 257 --- 2 5 4 THE CONDUCT OF WAR ‘Winston’, writes Field-Marshal Viscount Alanbrooke, ‘never  had the slightest doubt that he had inherited all the military  genius of his great ancestor, Marlborough. His military plans  and ideas varied from the most brilliant conceptions at the one  end to the wildest and most dangerous at the other’  .. .  ‘Frequently in his oration he worked himself into such a state  from the woeful picture he had painted that tears streamed  down his face’ . . .  ‘Perhaps the most remarkable failing of his  is that he can never see a whole strategical problem at once.  His gaze always settles on some definite part of the canvas  and the rest of the picture is lost. . . .  This failing is accentu­ated by the fact that often he does not want to see the whole  picture especially if the wider vision should in any way inter­fere with the operation he may have temporarily set his heart  on.’1‘He is extraordinarily obstinate’, writes Major-General Sir  John Kennedy. ‘He is like a child that has set his mind on  some forbidden toy. It is no good explaining that it will cut  his fingers or burn him. The more you explain, the mor