be permitted to enlarge his views, and to consider Europe as one great republic, whose various inhabitants have attained almost the same level of politeness and cultivation. The balance of power will continue to fluctuate, and the prosperity of our own or the neighbouring kingdoms may be alternately exalted or depressed; but these partial events cannot essentially injure our general state of happiness, the system of arts, and laws, and manners, which so advantage­ously distinguish, above the rest of mankind, the Europeans and their colonies. . . .  In peace, the progress of knowledge and industry is accelerated by the emulation of so many active rivals: in war, the European forces are exercised by temperate and undecisive contests.’1Nevertheless, beyond the unruffled sky the most devastating political typhoon since the Reformation was brewing, and its coming was conjectured by the Comte de Guibert (1737-1794) who, eight years earlier, in his Essai general de tactique  con­sidered that wars of punctilious courtesies, of bloodless man­oeuvres and honourable surrenders were only superficially cheap because they led to no grand political solution. In their place he proposed a very different kind of conflict.‘But let us suppose’, he wrote, ‘that a vigorous people were to arise in Europe: a people of genius, of resources and of political understanding: a people who united with these sterling 1  The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire , Edward  Gibbon (edit. J. B. Bury, 1925), Vol. IV, pp. 176, 178. 26  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 30 --- THE REBIRTH OF UNLIMITED WAR 27 virtues and with a national militia a fixed plan of aggrandize­ment, and never lost sight of it: a people who knows how to make war cheaply and sustain itself on its victories. Such a people would not be compelled to limit its fighting by financial calculations. One would see this people subjugate its neigh­bours, and overthrow our feeble constitutions, like the north wind bends the