onsible for formulating the plans of the allied armies are incapable of functioning in this new and astonishing lay-out.’1 m a y  22: ‘Our one and only armoured division was landed in  France yesterday.. . .  Where are the German infantry? Where  are the main bodies of the armies? Are we right in estimating  them to be 100 miles behind this thunderbolt of 5,000 tanks?’  [The actual number was less than half this figure.]Rumour is a swift traveller, and panic grows with distance. At 7.30 a.m. on 15th May Churchill was awakened by the ring of his bedside telephone; the voice was Reynaud’s. ‘We have been defeated’, it said. ‘The front is broken near Sedan; they are pouring through in great numbers with tanks and armoured cars.’  Dumbfounded, Churchill replied: ‘All experience shows that the offensive will come to an end after a while. I remember the 21st of March, 1918. After five or six days they had to halt for supplies, and the opportunity for counter-attack is presented.’  But in March 1918, the Germans had no tanks, this had skipped Churchill’s memory, and he excuses himself by writing: ‘Not having had access to official information for so many years, I did not comprehend the violence of the revo­lution effected since the last war by the incursion of a mass of fast-moving heavy armour.’2  He might have found all he needed in his remarkable memorandum ‘Variants of the Offen­sive’  of World War I; but the last place to seek it was in official sources.On 16th May, he felt it imperative for him to go to Paris, and when, at 4 p.m. he landed at Le Bourget, the officer who met him told him that ‘the Germans were expected in Paris in a few days at most.’  He drove to the Quai d’Orsay to meet Reynaud, Daladier and Gamelin, and when the latter had 1  It is of interest to note that, during the German advance, broadcasts  in French were sent out in a continuous stream by the German Director  of Radio. They caused panic and confusion among the French civil  population, and led