to negotiate with the military rulers and monarchist autocrats in Germany, he would demand not peace negotiations but a general sur­render. This meant the abdication of the existing German Government and its replacement by a revolutionary Socialist assembly. On 3rd November the German crews at Kiel mutinied and Berlin was swept by revolution; on the 9th the Kaiser abdicated, and on the 11th, at Rethondes Station in the forest of Compi&gne an armistice was concluded between the Allied and Associated Powers and Germany.Much the same happened to the Austro-Hungarian Empire, because Wilson insisted that the complete satisfaction of the Austrian and Hungarian Slavs should be a condition of the armistice. Thereupon autonomous governments were formed in Budapest, Prague, Laibach, Serajevo, Cracow and Lemberg, and a neutral government was set up in Vienna to liquidate the central administration. On 12th November the Emperor- Karl renounced his share in it, after which a republic was proclaimed in Vienna and the ancient Austro-Hungarian monarchy ceased to exist.Thus chaos was planted in Europe. 1  Ibid., Vol. II, p. 721.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 186 --- C H A P T E R  X Lenin and the Russian Revolution ♦ 1 •  Lenin and the March Revolution The Petrograd revolution of March 1917 was a popular and not a revolutionary rising, brought about by war weariness and universal discontent. At the time there were three parties in the Duma, the Constitutional Democrats, or ‘Cadets’, who stood for a constitutional monarchy; the Social Democrats, who were Marxists, and the Social Revolutionaries, who represented the peasants. When on 15th March Nicholas II abdicated, it was the first of these parties which picked up his sceptre, and, on the 22nd, formed a Provisional Coalition Government under Prince Gregori Lvov.In spite of the general outcry for peace, the Provisional Government determined to remain loyal to Russia’s allies and to continue the war, a decision which was at o