Board, the Board of  Economic Warfare, the Office of Price Administration, the Office of War  Information, and many other government agencies.’  ( The Twenty- Year  Revolution from Roosevelt to Eisenhower,  Chesley Manly (1954), p. 42.)*  Wedemeyer, p. 348. See also Masters of Deceit,  J. Edgar Hoover  (1958).* Sherwood, Vol. I, p. 133.*  Wedemeyer, p. 341.*  Sherwood, Vol. I, p. 183.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 269  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 273 --- 2 7 0 THE CONDUCT OF WAR ‘his greatest fear then and subsequently was of a negotiated  peace.’1  A year later, when Hitler invaded Russia, at Hopkins’  own request he sent him on a mission to Moscow. At the same  time Roosevelt announced the freezing of Japanese assets and  credits in the U.S.A., and placed an embargo on the export  of aviation fuel and machine tools to Japan. This was a  declaration of economic war.Hopkins arrived in Moscow on 31st July 1941, and was enthralled by Stalin.2  Like Churchill, he blindly espoused the Soviet cause, and forthwith, without any reservations, started the flow of lend-lease goods to Russia. General John R. Deane, head of the U.S. Military Mission in Moscow, writes that Hopkins carried out the Russian aid programme ‘with a zeal which approached fanaticism.’8  His mission fulfilled, he left Moscow to join the President and Churchill at the Atlantic Conference, held in Placentia Bay, Newfoundland, between 8th and 13th August.At it, with reference to Japan, Churchill states: ‘I told his circle [the President’s] that I would rather have an American declaration of war now and no supplies for six months than double the supplies and no declaration. When this was repeated to him [to Roosevelt]. . .  he went so far as to say to me, “I may never declare war; I may make war. If I were to ask Congress to declare war they might argue about it for three months”.’4  Further, he promised Churchill that ‘the United States, even if not herself attacked, would come into the war in the Fa