mly established  his rule throughout the Reich. Therefore he was free to turn  to the second half.Thirteen years before he had written in Mein Kampf:  ‘As a State, the German Reich shall include all Germans’  (p. 334). This meant Austria and the Sudeten Germans in Czechoslo­vakia, the return of Danzig, and the elimination of the Polish  Corridor. Then, and only then, would the Treaty of Versailles  be annulled, and Germany, instead of being the pariah of the  continent, would become its potential master.With the dissolution of the Habsburg monarchy in 1918, Austria became an economic derelict, and many of her people believed that the only hope of her revival lay in a union with Germany, a yearning exploited by the growth of a powerful and vocal Austrian National Socialist Party in Vienna, which demanded self-determination.On 11th February 1938, Hitler invited the Austrian Chan­cellor, K urt von Schuschnigg, to Berchtesgaden, and on arrival Schuschnigg was forthwith presented with an ultimatum which, under threat of military invasion, he was compelled to sign. As it meant the surrender of Austria to Germany, early in March, Schuschnigg decided on the desperate expedient of holding a plebiscite on 13th March, in order to ascertain the will of the Austrian people. When, on 9th March, Hitler learnt of this, in a fury he ordered the army to cross the Austrian frontier, which it did on the 12th. Thus, and to the rejoicings of large numbers of Austrians, Austria was swallowed by the Reich; Czechoslovakia was outflanked, and the German frontier 1  The White House Papers of Harry L. Hopkins  (English edition,  1948), Robert E. Sherwood, Vol. I, p. 114.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 240 --- THE TWENTY YEARS ARMISTICE 2 3 7 brought into contact with Italy. All that the Western Powers  did was to protest, which in no way discouraged Hitler from  taking the next step -  the liberation of the Sudeten Germans.Unlike Austria, Czechoslovakia was a multinational State, and o