es,  p. 102. 4  Ibid., p. 251.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 282 --- inform his enemy of it. A true disciple of Lenin, on 23rd February 1943, he publically stated: ‘It would be ridiculous to identify Hitler’s clique with the German people.. . .  History shows that the Hitlers come and go, but the German people and the German State remain.’1The Stalingrad disaster, writes Ritter, roused the anti-  Hitler Opposition ‘to frantic activity.’2  On 22nd January the  two main rebel factions met in Berlin to square their differ­ences. Then, on the following day, before they had arrived at  a decision whether or not to assassinate Hitler, Roosevelt’s  and Churchill’s proclamation of unconditional surrender came  over the air; ‘a formula which’  Gorlitz declares, ‘gave the  death blow to any hope that may have been entertained either  by the “Shadow Government” or by the oppositional elements  in the General Staff, that their enemies would negotiate with  a “respectable” government.’3  And Ritter adds that, as the  sole peace terms were to be unconditional surrender, ‘not only  did most of the generals, but even many of the Opposition .. .  refuse to relieve the tyrant by revolution from the responsi­bility for such a disaster.’4  Thus a promising gamble, which  might have brought the war to an end before the Russians  could capitalize their Stalingrad victory, was missed. 7 * The Strategic Bombing of Germany In a Memorandum, dated 21st October 1917, Mr Churchill described the role of aircraft in war accurately. He wrote:‘All attacks on communications or bases should have their  relation to the main battle. It is not reasonable to speak of an  air offenisve as if it were going to finish the war by itself. It  is improbable that any terrorization of the civil population  which could be achieved by air attack could compel the  Government of a great nation to surrender. Familiarity with  bombardment, a good system of dug-outs and shelters, a  strong control by police and