r, Mao Tse-tung -  the Stalin of the Chinese Revolution -  has already come to logger­heads with his partner Khrushchev over his policy of peaceful coexistence, which excludes war. He has poured scorn on it by stating that China is in no way terrified by the dangers of an all-out nuclear war, and can well afford to expend a100,000,000 of her people in one. Though at present, because of her lack of nuclear weapons, this may be an idle boast, it nevertheless reveals a terrifying biological necessity which arises out of a fundamental difference between China and Russia.While Russia has never suffered from a shortage of land for her growing population, demographically China is a saturated country, and must either expand or explode. The one has a population of 210,000,000 in about 8,600,000 square miles of territory, and the other some 680,000,000 in 3,760,000 square miles. Further, the population of China is increasing at an annual rate of 12,000,000, or about four times that of the U.S.S.R.This fundamental biological difference, coupled with the development of Chinese economy, must be giving Khrushchev and his henchmen a severe headache; for they see looming over their eastern frontier the form of a young giant, who before he is fully grown may seek his promised land in the sparsely populated spaces of Asiatic Russia.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 335 --- 332 THE CONDUCT OF WAR This is corroborated by Mr Adlai Stevenson who, on his return from a visit to the Soviet Union, wrote in the New  York Times  of 2nd October, 1958:‘One day I asked a high official. . .  “how about the pro­duction of babies in China?” adding that if the population of China continued to expand at the present rate the Soviet Union would one day look to its neighbor like the largest emptiest land in the world. -  “Ah, that’s the trouble”, he replied unhesitatingly.. . .  And whenever I remarked, as I often did, that a United Nations’  commission estimated the population of China in the year