nd March 1923, and entitled ‘Better Fewer, but Better’,1  Lenin is a disillusioned man.‘Our experience of the first five years’, he says, ‘has fairly  crammed our heads with disbelief and scepticism. These  qualities assert themselves involuntarily when, for example,  we hear people dilating at too great length and too flippantly on  “proletarian” culture. We would be satisfied with real bourgeois  culture for a start.. .. The situation as regards our machinery  of state is so deplorable, not to say disgusting, that we must  first of all think very carefully as to how to eliminate its  defects.. . .  We must come to our senses in tim e.. . .  We must  think of testing the steps forward which we proclaim to the  world every hour, which we take every minute, and which  later on we find, every second, to be flimsy, superficial and  not understood.. . .  We have been bustling for five years  trying to improve our state apparatus, but it has been mere  bustle; and these five years have proved that bustle is useless,  even futile, even harmful. This bustle created the impression  that we were doing something; as a matter of fact, it only  clogged up our institutions and our brains. It is high time  things were changed. We must follow the rule: “Little, but  good”. We must follow the rule: “Better get a good staff in  two or even three years, than work in haste without getting  any at a ll.. . . ” Everybody knows that a more badly organized  institution than our Workers’  and Peasants’ Inspection does  not exist, and that under present conditions nothing can be  expected from the People’s Commissariat.. . .  If we cannot  arm ourselves with patience, if we are not prepared to devote 1  Ibid., Vol. II, pp. 844-55.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 204 --- several years to this task, we had better not start on it at all.’The dreamer had awakened to find that the alluring vision  of the Marxian Beatitude, which he so fanatically had believed  in and so frantically had qu