CT OF WAR yet become accustomed to the idea that they are the ruling  class... . Accounting and control -  this is the main  economic  task . . .  of every factory committee or organ of workers’  con­trol. . . .  The land, the banks, the factories and works now  belong to the whole of the people! You yourselves  must set to  work to take account and control the production and distri­bution of products -  this is the only road to the victory of  Socialism. . .  to organize this accounting and control, which  is fully within the power  of every honest, intelligent and efficient  worker and peasant, we must rouse their organizing talent,  the talent which is in their midst.’1Four months later the tune began to change. On 28th April 1918, in ‘The Chief Task of our Day’  Lenin declared:‘Without the guidance of specialists in the various fields of  knowledge, technology and experience, the transition to  Socialism will be impossible . . . the specialists are, in the  main, bourgeois. . . . Had our proletariat . . . quickly solved  the problem of accounting, control and organization . .. we . . .  would have completely subordinated these bourgeois specialists  to ourselves by means of universal accounting and control. . . .  Now we have to resort to the old bourgeois method and agree  to pay a very high price for the “services” of the biggest  bourgeois specialists . . . assuming that we have to enlist  several hundred .. . exacting foreign specialists, the question  is, would the expenditure of fifty or a hundred million roubles  per annum . . . for the purpose of reorganizing the labour of  the people according to the last word in science or technology  be excessive or too heavy? Of course n o t. . . every thinking  and honest worker and poor peasant will agree .. . that we  cannot immediately rid ourselves of the bad heritage of  capitalism [except] by purging our ranks . . .  of loafers, idlers  and embezzlers of state funds (now all the land, all the  factories and al