overcome by the introduction of the gas shell,2  which was largely independent of wind, which enabled sudden concentrations of gas to be landed on selected targets, which needed no special training, and which above all was a mobile method of attack. The sole disadvantage was that the shell was so small a container, but this was in part overcome by the introduction of more potent gases than chlorine, notably phosgene and mustard gas.The latter, also called Yellow Cross and Yperite, is a remark­ably persistent chemical and a powerful vesicant. It seldom kills, but men who come into contact with it, either as a liquid or a vapour, suffer severe blistering of the skin; the burns appear from four to twelve hours after exposure, and heal very slowly. Because one part of it in 4,000,000 of air will cause blisters, it is eminently suited for artillery shells, and a few are sufficient to cause many casualties hours or even days later, because its persistence is very slowly destroyed by earth.Mustard gas was first used by the Germans in the Ypres Salient on 11th July 1917, and in the following six weeks it caused over 20,000 British casualties. From then on the British and French set out to manufacture it in large quantities.The first skilful use of gas to effect a penetration was made in General von Hutier’s attack on the Riga front on 1st September 1917. He selected a sector of the Russian lines of 1  In 1854, the year before Lord Dundonald suggested to Lord Panmure  the use of sulphur fumes as an asphyxiant, Dr J. Stenhouse invented  the first charcoal respirator.*  Also, for short ranges, the mortar bomb and the Livens projector.  The latter fired a cylinder which held 80 lb. of gas; it could rapidly be  erected in a shallow trench, and fired in batteries of 100 to 500 at a time.  On one occasion the British fired 2,500 into Lens.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 177 --- 174 THE CONDUCT OF WAR no more than 4,600 yards in width; massed against it a power­ful force of