: ‘In the art of war, as in mechanics, time is the grand element between weight and force.’2  And ‘The loss of time is irreparable in war; reasons alleged for it were always bad, because operations only fail through delays.’3  Unfortunately for him, the delays of two of his subordinate generals, the one at Leipzig and the other at Ligny, went far to lose him the first of these battles and render the second indecisive. On the other hand, in the Ulm campaign his men said: ‘The Emperor has discovered a new way of waging war, he makes use of our legs instead of our bayonets.’4 s u p r i s e .  Other than the unexpected concentration of his forces on the battlefield, Napoleon’s surprises were seldom tactical ones, nearly all were strategic, and notably so at the battles of Marengo (1800), Ulm (1805) and Jena (1806); also in the first phase of the Waterloo campaign. ‘Strategy’, he wrote to Stein on 7th January, 1814, ‘is the art of making use of time and space. I am less chary of the latter than the former. Space we can recover, lost time never.’ c o n c e n t r a t i o n .  For the decisive battle, Napoleon cut down all subsidiary operations in order to concentrate the greatest possible numbers. Colin quotes him as saying: ‘The army must be assembled and the greatest force possible con­centrated on the battlefield.’5There is an important difference here between the meaning 1  The Transformations of War  (English edition, 1912), p. 254.*  Corresp ., XVIII, No. 14707. *  Ibid., XII, No. 9997.4  Ibid., XI, No. 9392. *  The Transformations of War,  p. 243.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 54 --- NAPOLEONIC WARFARE 51 of ‘assembled’  and ‘concentrated’. The former is explained in a letter Napoleon wrote to the King of Naples on 8th August, 1806: ‘The art of disposing of troops is the art of war. Distri­bute your troops in such a way that, whatever the enemy does, you will be able to unite your forces within a few days.’1  The assembly is the distribution of corps or div