ns not only assured for themselves a dominant position in Europe, but outlets for their industry and commerce. Also they secured from France ‘most favoured nation treatment’  as regards tariffs and trade, ‘which shows well enough that a nation’s wealth largely consists, nowadays, in drawing an income from its neighbour.. . .  The German victories of 1870 have enriched the individual German. Every German has a share in the  profits , and is directly interested in the firm, in the constitution , in the victory . That is what now is meant by a people's war'In the 1894 war with China, although by the terms of the treaty signed at Shimonoseki Japan secured meagre territorial concessions, the commercial advantages she gained were 1  French diplomatist, 1754-1821. The quotation is from his Soirees de  St. Petersburg.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 128 --- enormous. ‘The guns of Wei-hai-wei and of the Jalu paved the way for a mercantile navy which would export, first to the Eastern seas, then to the Western, articles which Japan manufactured under conditions no longer possible in Europe.’  On a small scale, the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-1905 was a ‘complete model of the nature of contemporary warfare; for war, to-day, is a commercial enterprise undertaken by the whole nation. It concerns the individual more directly than did war in the past, and therefore appeals much more to individual passions.’‘Further proofs: the Spanish-American War; our own last difficulties with the British over Fashoda. What were we all seeking? for commercial outlets to an industrial system which produces more than it can sell, and therefore is constantly smothered by competetion. What happens then? New markets are opened by force of arms.’‘  “The Stock Exchange has acquired such an influence that it is able, in order to protect its interests, to launch armies into war” (von Moltke). Who was responsible for the Boer War? Certainly not the Queen of England, but the merchants of the City.’‘S