n of 1914, the Germans and British reached the English Channel near Nieuport, the Western Front assumed the shape of a huge salient which bulged west­ward between the sea and the Vosges with its apex near Compiegne. In 1915, Jofifre’s plan was to cut this salient off by a dual offensive: the British were to attack eastward in Artois and the French northward in Champagne. Throughout the war this plan remained the norm of French strategy, and in accor­dance with it a series of battles was fought in. 1915, of which the most ambitious were the Third Battle of A rtois-in it the British share was known as the Battle of Loos -  (25th September-15th October), and the Second Battle of Cham­pagne (25th September-6th October). 1  Soldiers and Statesmen , Vol. II, p. 189. When casualties are omitted,  the figures cited must include a large number of non-combatants.  According to General Edmonds (op. cit., p. 876), the non-battle casualties  (due to malaria, dysentry, etc.) numbered 508,877.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 165  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 169 --- 166 THE CONDUCT OF WAR In all these battles, none of which did more than dent the  salient, two things became apparent:The first was the disproportion between losses and gains.  For example, in the battle of Third Artois -  Loos, the French  and British respectively lost 48,200 and 48,267 men, and in  the Second Battle of Champagne the French losses were  143,567. In both, no more than the German front line system  of trenches, in places some 3,000 yards deep, was captured.The second was that, in all the initial assaults of this year,  mass artillery bombardments enabled the infantry to occupy  parts of or all of the enemy’s front line entrenchments. This  went far to prove that, had a sufficiency of artillery existed  during the mobile period of the war, it would have been  possible to penetrate the unentrenched, or slightly entrenched,  fronts of those days. This was one of the lessons Napoleon had  taught his age