writes  V. L. Borin, ‘is just an irresponsible phrase, a piece of nonsense  uttered by Marx . . .  an illusionary future lacking a single grain  of reality.’1  Not only is the proletariat in every land a minority  class, which means that, as the governing class, it has to en­force its will on the majority of the people as well as on the  comparatively small class of capitalists, but its individual  members, like those of all classes, are governed by human  nature -  the ineradicable nstincts which have shaped man’s  history since he became mian.The peasants took over the land not merely to work it, but  to work it at a profit, and they cultivated only sufficient of it  to meet their own needs, because the industrial workers had  nothing to offer in exchange for their produce. ‘In the factories’,  writes Borin, ‘the workers were busy electing their soviets and  carrying on discussions. They were now the governing class  and nobody could give them orders. . . . Above all they took  things easy. When their shoes needed re-soling they cut up  the driving belts from their machines; after all it was their  property. Thus instead of developing rapidly, industrial pro­duction came rapidly to a standstill.5 2  And as the industrial  workers had little or nothing to exchange with the peasants  for food, famine swept the cities, and the workers began to  desert the factories and flock to the land in search of sustenance.Exactly three months after the proletariat had been trans­formed into the governing class, in his pamphlet ‘How to  Organize Competition’, Lenin wrote:‘The workers and peasants are still “shy”, they have not 1  Civilization at Bay  (1951), p. 74.*  Ibid., pp. 78-79.LENIN AND THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION 1 9 7  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 201 --- 1 9 8 THE CONDUCT OF WAR yet become accustomed to the idea that they are the ruling  class... . Accounting and control -  this is the main  economic  task . . .  of every factory committee or organ of workers’  con­