ng and the suffering from war must stand the interests of the class. And if the war serves the interests of the proletariat, as a class and in toto,  and secures for it libera­tion from the [capitalist] yoke, and freedom for struggle and development -  such a war is progress, irrespective of the victims and the suffering it entails.’8 2 •  Lenin and Clausewitz Like Engels and Marx, Lenin was fascinated by Clausewitz’s On War ; he not only studied it with insight, but annotated it extensively;4  the whole of the chapter on ‘War as an Instru- 1  Le chef de VamUe rouge, Mihail Tukhachevski  (1928), p. 124.'  The Eighteenth Decisive Battle of the World  (1920), p. 28.a  Cited by Taracouzio, op. cit., p. 53.4  His marginal comments were first published in Pravda  in 1923, and  subsequently have been republished several times (see Raymond L.  Garthoff’s How Russia Makes War  (1959), p. 54). There is a French  translation of them by Berholdt C. Friedl, ‘Cahier de L6nine No. 18674  des Archives de l’Institut Ldnine a Moscow’, Les Fondements TMoriques  de la Guerre at de la Paix en U.SJS.R.  (Paris; Editions Medicis, 1945),  pp. 47-90.SOVIET REVOLUTIONARY WARFARE 2 0 5  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 209 --- 2 0 6 THE CONDUCT OF WAR ment of Policy’1  was heavily underlined by him, and inscribed  ‘the most important chapter’, which it undoubtedly is. The  following citations show how deeply he was indebted to  Clausewitz:Under the heading ‘War is Politics continued by Other (i.e. Forcible) Means’, Lenin wrote: ‘This famous dictum belongs  to one of the profoundest writers on military questions,  Clausewitz. Rightly, the Marxists have always considered this  axiom as the theoretical foundation for their understanding of  the meaning of every war.’2  On another occasion, he termed  Clausewitz ‘one of the most notable writers on the philosophy  of wars and on the history of wars . . .  a writer, whose basic  thoughts have at present become the indisputable acquisitions  o