ages.’  Because the age we are living in is one of per­manent emergency, this is equally applicable to peace. He should not, Clausewitz continues, ‘take it for something, or wish to make of it something, which by the nature of its relations it is impossible for it to be.’3  Unfortunately for the Free World, this is what its statesmen have consistently been doing since 1945.They should realize that no compromise with the Soviets is possible as long as they continue to hold that world revo­lution is preordained by history. Therefore they should avoid 1  First Philippic , 41, 47 and 50.2  Op. cit., p. 337.*  See supra , Chapter IV, p. 67.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 323 --- 3 2 0 THE CONDUCT OF WAR all conferences like the plague; not only do they invariably provide a platform for Communist propaganda, but as Senor Salvador de Madariaga has pointed out: when ‘we consent to talk with those who are opposing freedom . . .  we are betray­ing our first front line, the peoples of Eastern Europe, in exchange for a “peace” which is no peace.’1It is this inner front -  rather than first line -  which is the Achilles heel of the Soviet Imperium. Not only are half of the inhabitants of the U.S.S.R. non-Russian, and many of them are nationally-minded and antagonistic to Muscovite rule; but it has also been estimated that less than five per cent, of the peoples behind the Iron Curtain are in sympathy with their draconic Communist regimes. As we have seen, whenever a crisis has occurred within the Russian Empire, whether in Tzarist or Communist times, the minority nations have re­volted, and whenever oppression has appeared to weaken in the countries behind the Iron Curtain, disturbances or revolts have followed. In the Hungarian rising of 1956 it should not be forgotten that the only non-Hungarian people who fought on the side of the rebels were deserters from the Russian army.Therefore, in the cold war, the psychological centre of gravity of the Soviet Empire is to be s