and because Hitler’s aim was to establish a Lebensraum  in Eastern Europe, which would inevitably entangle him with Russia, there can be no doubt whatsoever that in 1939 the best policy for France and Great Britain would have been to keep out of the war, let the two great dictatorial Powers cripple each other, and in the mean­time have re-armed at top speed. Had they done so, a time would have come when they could profitably intervene. Should Russia then be winning, Hitler would be discredited, and support could be given to Germany, and should the reverse be the case, Germany could be invaded from the west under favourable conditions. This, however was rendered impractible by Chamberlain’s pledge to Poland.Now that Germany had invaded Russia, the opportunity  to win a profitable peace again presented itself; therefore  British and American policy should have been, as Hanson W.  Baldwin suggests: Not to elevate ‘one totalitarianism at the  expense of another and of the democracies' , but instead to aid 1  The Von Hassell Diaries , 1938-1944 (1948), p. 219.2  Dance of Death , p. 108.8  The German General Staff,  p. 397. ‘Do you know where we lost the  war in Russia?’ a German officer asked an American journalist. ‘In  Stalingrad’ was the prompt reply, ‘No,’ said the officer, ‘we lost it long  before that -  in Kiev, when we hoisted the swastika instead of the  Ukrainian flag!’ Cited by Eugene Lyons in Our Secret Allies: the Peoples  of Russia  (1954), p. 232.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 268 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 6 5 Russia only sufficiently to keep her in the war, and not  damage Germany sufficiently to drive her out of it.1This favourable opportunity was missed through the pug­nacity of Mr Churchill. On the evening of 21st June 1941, a few hours before the Germans crossed the Russian frontier, when at dinner with Mr Winant, the American Ambassador, Churchill remarked to him that a German attack on Russia was imminent, and that he would go all o