t the project in the form of a local bombardment. Soon it grew into a major naval operation to force the Narrows, and finally it developed into a full scale combined operation, which comprised a battle fleet and an army of 75,000 men under General Sir Ian Hamilton. On 18th March, an abortive naval attack was made, in it three battle­ships were lost, and not until 25th April did the army set out to land on Cape Helles.Although the Turkish forces opposing the invasion were insignificant, the invaders made so little headway that, before the day was out, General Sir William Birdwood, in command of the Australian and New Zealand Corps, suggested a com­plete withdrawal. To this counsel of despair Sir Ian Hamilton replied: ‘You have got through the difficult business. Now you have only got to dig, dig, dig, until you are safe.’2  Thus, within twelve hours of the first landings, bullet, spade and wire dominated the situation, and a minor Western Front was established, to endure until the final evacuation on 9th January 1916. In all, 410,000 British and French soldiers took part in the campaign, of whom 252,000 were killed, wounded, miss­ing, prisoners, died of disease or evacuated sick.3 1  Simultaneously Lord Kitchener asked Sir John French what views  he held on the desirability of operating elsewhere than on the Western  Front, to which Sir John replied: ‘To attack Turkey would be to play  the German game and to bring about the very end which Germany had  in mind when she induced Turkey to join in the war, namely, to draw  troops from the decisive spot, which is Germany itself’  ( 1914,  Field-  Marshal Viscount French (1919), pp. 314-6).*  Military Operations Gallipoli  (British Official History) Brig.-General  G. F. Aspinall-Oglander (1929), Vol. I, p. 270.• Ibid., Vol. II, p. 484.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 163  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 167 --- 164 THE CONDUCT OF WAR As if the Gallipoli campaign was not a sufficient lesson to deter further experiments in e