h sides. 2 • Marshal Ferdinand Foch When the time came to examine the causes of the defeat of the French army in the Franco-Prussian War, instead of looking for them in its all-round unpreparedness, French military analysts singled out the aggressive tactics of its opponents as the main one. And when in the next war, the Russo-Turkish of 1877-1878, the Turks, who fought on the defensive, were beaten, instead of relating their defeat to the many factors responsible for it, the analysts arrived at the conclusion that they were right about 1870, and in spite of the fact that the leading tactical lessons of the Russo-Turkish War were the defensive strength of entrenched riflemen and the crippling cost of attempting to storm entrenchments.Any doubts the exponents of the offensive may still have had were, in 1880, dissipated by the publication of a book entitled Etudes sur le Combat , which at once became a classic. It was compiled from memoranda and notes found among the papers of a French infantry officer, Colonel Ardant du Picq, who had died of wounds within a month of the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War. In brief, his theory was that success in battle is a question of morale, and should the morale of the attacker be superior to the morale of the defender, the attacker will win. The following extracts make his theory clear:‘In battle, two moral forces, even more so than two material forces, are in conflict. The stronger conquers. The victor has often lo st. . . more men than the vanquished. . . . With equal or even inferior power of destruction, he will win who is determined to advance. . .  [who] has the moral ascendency. 1  M y Experiences of the War between France and Germany , Archibald  Forbes (1871), Vol. I, p. 286.MOLTKE, FOCH, AND BLOCH 121  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 125 --- 122 THE CONDUCT OF WAR Moral effect inspires fear. Fear must be changed into terror in order to conquer. . . .  The moral impulse lies in the per­ception by the enemy of the