his own plan, but at the same time uncovered his enemy’s. To discover what his enemy intended, more so than what his positions were, was the aim of Napoleonic exploration. 3 •  The Principles of Napoleonic Warfare Although Napoleon frequently wrote or talked about prin­ciples of war, nowhere does he enumerate them. Once he said in the hearing of Saint-Cyr: ‘If one day I can find the time, I will write a book in which I will describe the principles of war in so precise a manner that they will be at the disposal of all 1  Cited by Colonel Vach6e in Napoleon at Work  (English trans. 1914).  p.7.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 52 --- NAPOLEONIC WARFARE 49 soldiers, so that war can be learnt as easily as a science.’1  Unfortunately he never did so; nevertheless, a study of his campaigns reveals: (1) His invariable reliance on the offensive; (2) his trust in speed to economize time, and (3) to effect strategic surprisals; (4) his insistence on concentrating superi­ority of force on the battlefield, particularly at the decisive point of attack; and (5) his carefully thought out protective system. o f f e n s i v e .  Of the offensive he said: ‘I think like Frederick, one should always be the first to attack’;2  and ‘It is a very great mistake to allow oneself to be attacked.’3  ‘Make war offensively’, he said, ‘like Alexander, Hannibal, Caesar, Gustavus-Adolphus, Turenne, Eug&ne and Frederick. . .  model yourself on them, it is the sole means to become a great captain and fathom the secrets of the art.’4But, unlike Charles X II, he was no foolhardy general. ‘At the opening of a campaign’, he said, ‘one should carefully con­sider whether to advance or not, but once one has assumed the offensive it should be pushed to the last extremity.’5  Again: ‘Once one has decided to invade a country, one must not be afraid to deliver battle, and should seek out the enemy every­where to fight him.’®Although he did not invent the pursuit, it may be said that he systematized it, b