w Red China has joined in an Asian trade onslaught, intended to capture markets and, with and through them, the minds of free men. The Communist drive is designed to undermine the economy and strength of the free world.’2The paradox in this offensive is, that the alleged contradic­tion in the capitalist system, which Marx affirmed would destroy it from within, has, in the form of ‘organized poverty’, been adopted as its basis in order to destroy it from without by depriving the capitalist countries of their markets.Should this economic offensive progressively gain ground, the Western Powers will become less and less able to maintain an effective front against Soviet expansion, either ideological or physical, and Lenin’s aim to unite Germany and the Soviet Union, and thereby create a gigantic agrarian and industrial combination, will be brought a long step nearer to fulfilment.3To accomplish this is the linch-pin in Khrushchev’s German policy, and should he succeed in creating this monster, what remains of Free Europe will be at the mercy of the Soviet 1  Ibid., p. 171. Between 1955 and 1958 trade with countries outside  the Soviet Bloc increased by nearly 70 per cent. (The Soviet Seven Years  Plan , p. 93).*  Ibid., p. 313.8  Lenin’s war aims, laid down by him at the time of the Brest-  Litovsk peace treaty, were in 1924 in condensed form published by  Karl Radek in No. 3 of the Communist International:  They read: ‘The  proletariat of industrial Germany, Austria and Czechoslovakia, in  uniting with the proletariat of Russia will create a mighty agrarian and  industrial combination from Vladivostok to the R hine. . .  capable of  feeding itself and of confronting the reactionary capitalism of Britain  with a revolutionary giant, which with one hand would disturb the  senile tranquillity of the East and with the other beat back the private  capitalism of Anglo-Saxon countries. If there were anything that could  compel the English whale to dance, it would be the union