d can rely on its orders being implicitly obeyed by the second. This is the key difference between the opposed economic systems.As in actual war, the economic offensive demands the con­centration of the means of attack, that is the integration of the economies of the Soviet Bloc. This subject also figured prominently in the programme of the Twentieth Party Con­gress, and was outlined by Khrushchev as follows:‘Close economic co-operation gives exceptional opportunities for the best possible utilisation of productive and raw- material resources, and successfully combines the interests of each country with those of the socialist camp as a whole.. . .  Today it is no longer necessary for each socialist country to 1  Compiled from the population figures given in The World Almanac  1960. Turkey is included in the Western Bloc, and Yugoslavia excluded  from both.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 327 --- 324 THE CONDUCT OF WAS develop all branches of heavy industry, as had to be done by  the Soviet Union.. . .  Now, when there is a powerful com­munity of socialist countries. . .  each European people’s  democracy can specialize in developing those industries and  producing those goods for which it has the most favourable  natural and economic conditions. This at the same time  creates the necessary prerequisites for releasing considerable  resources to develop agriculture and the light industries, and  on this basis to satisfy more and more fully the material and  cultural requirements of the peoples.’1This means that the economies of the Satellite countries are to be organized so as not to overlap the economy of the Soviet Union, and that they are progressively to be converted into departments of one gigantic workshop. Because virtually no tariffs are allowed, the whole is aimed to constitute a common power-house as well as a common market, and all production not absorbed by the latter will become ‘ammuni­tion’ wherewith to bombard the West. Should China be in­cluded