ould ‘accustom himself never to lose sight of it, to regard it as the natural measure of all his hopes and fears, in order to approach it where he can , or where he must'  (III, p. 82). 4 •  W ar as an Instrum ent of Policy Clausewitz’s outstanding contribution to military theory is his insistence on the relationship of war and policy. In ‘all circum­stances’, he writes, ‘War is to be regarded not as an independent thing, but as a political instrument; and it is only by taking this point of view that we can avoid finding ourselves in oppo­sition to all military history. This is the only means of unlock­ing the great book and making it intelligible. Secondly, this view shows us how Wars must differ in character according to the nature of the motives and circumstances from which they proceed’  (I, p. 25).This observation is more fully elaborated in Sub-Section B  of Chapter VI of Book VIII, of which the following is a  summary.Clausewitz opens his discussion by stating, although it is  well known that war is called forth through the political inter- 1  This shows clearly the confusion into which Clausewitz’s concept of  absolute war led him. In Book I, Chapter I, Sections 6-9, he proves that  war can never be absolute; now he states that Bonaparte’s system of war  was one of ‘absolute completeness’. What, presumably, he means is, as  near the ideal as it is possible to get.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 67 --- 64 THE CONDUCT OE WAR course of governments and nations, it is generally assumed that intercourse is broken off by war, ‘and that a totally differ­ent state of things ensues, subject to no laws but its own.’  This is erroneous, because ‘War is nothing but a continu­ation of political intercourse, with a mixture of other means.’ He emphasizes the word ‘mixture’, so as to make it clear that political intercourse, though changed, does not cease, and that ‘the chief lines on which events of the War progress . . .  are only the general features of policy whi