iles had been conquered at a cost of 419,654 British and 194,451 French casualties. The German losses were probably in the neighbourhood of half a million.Although Sir Douglas Haig2  was well pleased with the  results of the battle, and in his Dispatch  stated that it had  ‘placed beyond doubt the ability of the Allies’ to achieve their  aim; and although Sir William Robertson urged the govern­ment to prepare for ‘harder and more protracted fighting and  a much greater strain on resources than as yet experienced’,3  the enormous losses sustained had a violent repercussion on  the political situation.1  General Headquarters and its Critical Dedsion9  General Erich von  Falkenhayn (English trans., 1919), p. 209 et. seq.*  He succeeded Sir John French as C. in C. on 15th December 1915,  and eight days later Sir William Robertson, C.G.S. to Sir John French,  was appointed C.I.G.S., and Lieut.-General Sir L. Kiggell replaced him.  All three were ardent exponents of the strategy of attrition.8  Soldiers and Statesmen , Vol. I, p. 279.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 172 --- With the Battle of the Somme the stalemate on ah fronts became complete. The Italians had bled themselves white in eight Battles of the Isonzo, and on the Eastern Front, although the Brussilov offensive had succeeded in capturing an enor­mous number of Austrians, it had cost Russia a million men. Because there seemed to be no hope of forcing a decision in the field, the question of peace negotiations began to be con­sidered in London, Berlin and Vienna. On 14th November, Lord Lansdowne, Minister without Portfolio in the Asquith coalition, suggested that the possibilities of peace should be examined; but on 7th December the Asquith administration fell, and Lloyd George, who was pledged to a more vigorous prosecution of the war, took over the government. Five days later Germany and her allies put forward notes in which they stated their willingness to consider peace proposals.Although Austria’s de