er entered on a ten-year peace pact with Poland, and when a year later the Saar Plebiscite was held, and a 95 per cent, vote supported a return to Germany, he was so encouraged that, on 16th March 1935, he announced his intention to reintroduce conscription, raise a peacetime army of thirty-six divisions and recreate the German Air Force. The response to this violation of the Treaty was the Franco-Soviet treaty of mutual assistance in Eastern Europe, signed on 2nd May, and a fortnight later a similar treaty was signed between France, the Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia. Next, on 18th June, Britain signed a unilateral agreement with Germany, according to which Germany was allowed to bring her naval strength up to 35 per cent, of the British. And when in October Mussolini invaded Abyssinia, on 18th Novem­ber the League, headed by Britain, enforced economic sanc­tions against Italy, which drove the unwilling Duce into Hitler’s arms.On 27th February 1936 the Franco-Soviet treaty was ratified. Thereupon Hitler, although the German army was still in an embryonic stage, declared that the Locarno Treaty of 19253  had been violated, and, on 7th March, he occupied the demilitarized Rhineland. Eight days later, in a speech at Munich, he said: ‘I go with the assurance of a sleepwalker in the way Providence dictates’:4  he had intuitively sensed that his military impotence was more than offset by Franco-British disunity. 1  Baynes, Vol. II, p. 1094.*  Admitted as a member on 8th September 1926.3  A Treaty of Mutual Guarantee Between Britain, France, Germany,  Italy and Belgium to keep the peace among themselves in all circum­stances. 4  Baynes, Vol. II, p. 1307.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 237 --- 2 8 4 THE CONDUCT OF WAR In May, Leon Blum formed his left-wing Popular Front Government in France, and although the Communists were not formal members of it, they attained great strength and influence. This, coupled with the Franco-Soviet treaty, split the continent into tw