t me move on before I had eaten.’5  And at Rostov, writes Erich Kern, ‘all over the city there were people waiting on the streets ready to cheer and welcome us in. .. . Never before had I seem such a sudden transformation. Of Bolshev­ism, there was no more. The enemy had gone. . .. Wherever we went we met laughing and waving people. . . . The Soviet Empire was creaking at the joints.’6Then came Himmler with his infamous Security Service 1  Ibid., p. 22.2  For his policy and how it was carried out see Alan Bullock’s Hitler  a Study of Tyranny , pp. 633-44.8  Hitler's Defeat in Russia  (1953), p. 168. Anders was C.-in-C. of the  Free Polish Army.4  The Goebbels Diaries , p. 135.5  Panzer Leader , p. 193.• Dance of Death  (English edition, 1948), pp. 102, 94, 86. Kern was  an n.c.o. in the Leibstandarte Hitler.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 6 3  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 267 --- 264 THE CONDUCT OF WAR (Sichereitsdienst ), and early in 1942, Dr Berthold, a leading official of the German Administration in Poland, told von Hassell that the brutal treatment of the Russians and Ukrainians ‘exceeds anything yet known.’1  Erich Kern cor­roborates this, he points out that at the time that Bolshevism was politically bankrupt, it was saved by Himmler and his assassins. ‘By rousing the Russian people to a Napoleonic fervour’, he writes, ‘we enabled the Bolsheviks to achieve a political consolidation beyond their wildest dreams and pro­vided their cause with the halo of “a patriotic war”.’2  And Gorlitz writes: ‘The fact that the destruction of Bolshevism began soon to mean simply an effort to decimate and enslave the Slav people was the most fatal of all the flaws in the whole campaign.” 3Because Bolshevism and National Socialism were equally repugnant to the Democracies, and because Hitler’s aim was to establish a Lebensraum  in Eastern Europe, which would inevitably entangle him with Russia, there can be no doubt whatsoever that in 1939 the best policy for France and