diately after the war, Thomas Hobbes (1588-1679) lay down in his Leviathan  that ‘it is a precept, or general rule of Reason, That every man ought  to endeavour Peace, as farre as he has hope of obtaining it; and  when he cannot obtain it, that he may seek, and use, all helps, and  advantages of Warre\  The first he calls the ‘Fundamentall Law of Nature; which is, to seek Peace, and follow it.  The second, the summe of the Right of Nature; which is, By all means we can , to defend ourselves J1Neither he nor Grotius nor any jurist of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries contended that war should be outlawed. They were wise enough to exclude so utopian a possibility, and instead to urge that its violence and destructiveness should be moderated, and what moderation demanded was discussed and codified at length by Emmerich de Vattel (1714-1767) in his The Law of Nations,  published at Neuchatel in 1758. In it he asks the question: Since all belligerents affirm the justice of their cause, who shall be judge between them? His answer is: Because there is no judge, recourse must be made to rules whereby warfare may be regulated. These rules he called ‘the voluntary law of nations’.‘The first rule of that law’, he wrote, ‘is that regular war, as  to its effects, is to be accounted just on both sides.  This is abso­lutely necessary . . .  if people wish to introduce any order, any regularity, into so violent an operation as that of arms, or to set any bounds to the calamities of which it is productive, and leave a door constantly open for the return of peace. It is even impossible to point out any other rule of conduct to be ob­served between nations, since they acknowledge no superior judge.‘Thus, the rights founded on the state of war, the lawfulness of its effects, the validity of the acquisition made by arms, do not, externally and between mankind, depend on the justice of the cause, but on the legality of the means in themselves, -  that is, on everything requisite t