s to render it impossible to get troops to push the battle to a decisive issue. They will try to, thinking that they are fighting under the old conditions, and they will learn such a lesson that they will abandon the attem pt for ever. Then, instead of war fought out to the bitter end in a series of decisive battles, we shall have as a substitute a long period of continually increasing strain upon the re­sources of the combatants. The war, instead of being a hand-to- hand contest, in which the combatants measure their physical and moral superiority, will become a kind of stalemate, in which neither army being willing to get at the other, both armies will be maintained in opposition to each other, threaten­ing the other, but never being able to deliver a final and decisive attack .. . .  That is the future of war -  not fighting, but famine, not the slaying of men, but the bankruptcy of nations and the break-up of the whole social organization.. . .  Everybody will be entrenched in the next war. I t will be a great war of entrenchments. The spade will be as indispensable to a soldier as his rifle.. . .  All wars will of necessity partake of the character of siege operations . . .  soldiers may fight as they please; the ultimate decision is in the hand of fam ine... . Unless you have a supreme navy, it is not worth while having one at all, and a navy that is not supreme is only a hostage in the hands of the Power whose fleet is supreme.’Bloch was of opinion that in a war between the Triple and the Dual Alliances ‘there would be ten millions of men under arms’, and that battle frontages would become so enormous that command would be impossible. That battles would grow longer and longer in duration, and more and more costly; a war would cost at least £4,000,000 a day should the five nations of the two Alliances partake in it. Cavalry he con­sidered would be useless, the day of the bayonet past and gone, and artillery the dominant arm. The only noted soldier re­corded to