ing the Kaiser and making  Germany pay for the war.’  And, during the Conference, ‘on  the rare occasions when he did try to rise above the blood-lust 1  Cited by Nicolson, op. cit., p. 21.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 224 --- THE TWENTY YEARS ARMISTICE 221 of the people he was faced with the imminent risk of losing his  job, and promptly retracted.’1Thus it came about that the primeval code of enmity  dominated the Peace Conference, and in Clemenceau the war-  crazed democracies found their Cato.2The Conference formally assembled on 18th January 1919, and because its task was to draft a treaty of peace, its aim should have been to eliminate the causes which had precipi­tated the war. According to Keynes, ‘the most serious of the problems which claimed its attention were not political or territorial but financial and economic, and that the perils of the future lay not in frontiers or sovereignties but in food, coal and transport.’3  Nevertheless instead of alleviating them the bulk of its decision aggravated them. The more important were: t e r r i t o r i a l  :  Alsace-Lorraine to be returned to France; the  greater part of the province of Posen (the Polish Corridor) with  its 600,000 German inhabitants to be ceded to Poland; Danzig,  a predominantly German city, to be made a free city under the  protection of the League; Memel to be ceded to Lithuania, and  Eupen-Malm6dy to Belgium. These changes involved the trans­fer of 28,000 square miles of German territory, inhabited by7,000,000 German nationals. In addition, Germany was depri­ved of her entire colonial empire, the third largest in the world. i n d u s t r i a l :  The Saar Basin to be ceded to France for  fifteen years,4  and the Upper Silesian coalfields to be sur­rendered to Poland. These mutilations, coupled with the loss  of Alsace-Lorraine, deprived Germany of 60,800,000 tons of  coal annually, and in addition to this loss she was compelled to  deliver yearly over a period of ten years 40,000