aud, Vol. II, p. 135.• Ibid., XIII, No. 10810.1 0  Ibid., XVI, No. 13652.1 1  Ibid., XVII, No. 14307.8  Ibid., XXII, No. 18041.6  Las Cases, Vol. VI, p. 85.7  Corresp.,  X, No. 8075.• Ibid., XII, No. 10325.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 51 --- 48 THE CONDUCT OF WAR The secret of all this was divulged by him to Roederer when he said to him:‘If I appear to be always ready to reply to everything, it is because, before undertaking anything, I have meditated for a long time - 1 have foreseen what might happen. It is not a spirit which suddenly reveals to me what I have to say or do in a circumstance unexpected by o th e rs-it is reflexion, meditation.’1Napoleon entered upon each of his campaigns with a pre­cisely premeditated plan which admitted of variations, each of which corresponded with an hypothesis he had made on his enemy’s probable and possible movements. The plan was what he intended to do, and the variations covered the modifica­tions he might have to make in it. Once the plan was activated, his problem became one of exploration. The current use of exploratory cavalry was to seek out the enemy’s forces and report back on them. But, because Napoleon was more con­cerned with his own plan than his enemy’s positions, and because normally they had changed by the time the cavalry reports were received, the object of his system of exploration -  which included spies, agents, letters seized in post offices, etc. -  was to confirm or eliminate his hypotheses. Therefore his cavalry, agents, etc., were directed in predetermined directions to elucidate doubtful points, knowledge of which was essential in order to confirm or eliminate an hypothesis. Thus, by re­ducing uncertainty to a minimum, by either eliminating or confirming his hypotheses, he not only simplified his own plan, but at the same time uncovered his enemy’s. To discover what his enemy intended, more so than what his positions were, was the aim of Napoleonic exploration. 3 •  The Principles of Napol