enemy’s policy, and not to change his government -  the policy maker. Its aim was to change the government’s mind, and should the government be overthrown, there would be no stable authority to negotiate a peace with. The world was then still sane, and the idea of creating a social anarchy in an enemy’s country would have been considered contrary to common sense.War by propaganda is pre-eminently a democratic instru­ment, fashioned to dominate the mass-mind -  Rousseau’s ‘general will’. Its purposes are: (1) to stimulate the mass-mind on the home front; (2) to win to one’s support the mass-minds of neutral nations; and (3) to subvert the mass-mind on the enemy’s inner front.The first is accomplished by awakening the tribal instincts latent in man, and, in order to focus these instincts, to trans­form the enemy into a devil.The aim of the second category is to bring neutral nations to accept and believe in the reality of this monstrosity, as British propaganda successfully did in the United States. Fired by notions, such as that German soldiers cut off the hands of Belgian children and crucified their prisoners2  ‘. . . .  the American people launched themselves into war with an emotional hysteria that can only be understood by realizing the power of propaganda in generating common action by a 1  Napoleon,  Eugene Tarle (1936), pp. 289 and 381.2  For a long list of these alleged atrocities see Falsehood in War Time , Arthur Ponsonby (1936).THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I  1 7 9  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 183 --- 1 8 0 THE CONDUCT OF WAR nation under belligerent conditions. . . . The almost primitive  ecstasy that could sometimes grip the American people has  been recently summarized in unforgettable fashion:4  “We hated with a common hate that was exhilarating. The  writer of this review remembers attending a great meeting in  New England, held under the auspices of a Christian Church -  God save the mark! A speaker demanded that the Kaiser, when  captured, be