’s theories to those only which have influenced wars subsequent to his day. 2 •  What is War? Clausewitz likens war ‘to a duel on an extensive scale’ (I, p. I),1  and compares it with a struggle between two wrestlers. From this he infers that war ‘is an act of violence intended to com­pel our opponent to fulfil our will’  (I, p. 2) -  violence is the means, and ‘the compulsory submission of the enemy to our will is the ultimate object  (I, p. 2). Violence must be pushed ‘to its utmost bounds’  (I, p. 4), and ‘the disarming or over­throw of the enemy must always be the aim of Warfare’  (I, p. 5). He scoffs at the old idea of ‘War without spilling blood’, calls it ‘a real business for Brahmins’  (I, p. 287),2  and considers that ‘. .. to introduce into the philosophy of W ar. . .  a principle of moderation would be an absurdity’  (I, p. 3). Therefore, he writes, ‘Let us not hear of Generals who conquer without bloodshed’  (I, p. 288).This insistence on violence as an imperative has misled many of his disciples, who have accepted it in its absolute sense. Nevertheless, once he has freed himself from the toils of his philosophy, Clausewitz goes out of his way to explain that war is not made ‘with an abstraction but with a reality’  (I, p. 139); that ‘the absolute . . .  nowhere finds any sure base in the calculations in the Art of War’, and that ‘War in all branches of human activity [is] most like a gambling game’  (I, p. 20). ‘The Art of War’, he writes ‘has to deal with living 1  References are to volumes and pages of the English edition of On War , revised by Colonel F. N. Maude and published in 1908.1  In I, p. 229 he writes ‘ . .. in these feints, parades, half and quarter  thrusts of former Wars, they find the aim of all theory, the supremacy  of mind over matter, and modem Wars appear to them mere savage  fisticuffs, from which nothing is to be learnt, and which must be regarded  as mere retrograde steps towards barbarism.’  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page