l background of the war was more than extra­ordinary -  it was unique. Before the outbreak of hostilities, the United States’  regular army numbered some sixteen to seventeen thousand officers and men; of the latter the vast majority came from the Northern States, and a high percentage of the former from the Southern. The consequence was that, when the Southern States seceded, the bulk of the men re­mained loyal to the Union, and many of the officers, including most of the ablest, went over to the Confederacy. This would have left the Union army almost leaderless, had not there been at the time a number of experienced retired officers -  McClellan, Grant and Sherman, to mention the more eminent -  who could be recalled to active service. In short, while the Union got the body of the old army, the Confederates got the brains, and the result was that -  certainly during the first half of the war -  in strategical and tactical ability the Con­federates outclassed the Federals.At first both armies depended on voluntary enlistment, but as the war lengthened conscription was resorted to, by the Confederates in April 1862, and by the Federals a year later. During the war the Union called to the colours about forty-five per cent, of its military manhood, and the Confederacy, about ninety per cent. According to Colonel Thomas L. Livermore, the total enlistments in the Union army numbered 2,898,304, and in the Confederacy between 1,227,890 and 1,406,180.1  These figures exceed anything previously recorded in history, and were not to be surpassed until 1914.The tactical foreground was novel in the extreme, but at the time little appreciated. Although since the Napoleonic Wars improvements in fire-arms had revolutionized tactics, tactical theory remained Napoleonic, and although Clause- witz’s On War  is never mentioned, Jomini’s Summary of the 1  Numbers and Losses in the Civil War  (edit. 1957), p. 63. There are  several other estimates, but all vary and some considerably.  F