Austria, Prussia and  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 61 --- 58 THE CONDUCT OF WAR Sweden at Leipzig, and on 11th April 1814, he abdicated his throne. Thus, both his policy and grand strategy utterly failed. So long as England was in the field, though he could overrun Europe, he could not bind Europe to his throne, because in conquering her he sold his birthright to her peoples.In 1792, the spirit of French nationalism, awakened by the Revolution, became the soul of the French armies, and had this not been so there would never have been a Napoleon. Then, after Jena, he began to squander his heritage, and his exactions awoke, first in Spain, then in Austria, then in Prussia, and lastly in all Europe the selfsame spirit that had propelled his armies across that continent. In Spain, the Spanish guerrillas, as much so as Wellington’s small army, pinned down scores of thousands of his troops; in 1809 Austria adopted conscription, and when on 13th March 1813, Prussia, in alliance with Russia, declared war on him, a levee en masse  was forthwith proclaimed. Every man not acting in the regular army or Landwehr  was to support the army by acting against the enemy’s communications and rear. The people were to fight to the death and with every means in their power. The enemy was to be harassed, his supplies cut off and his stragglers massacred. No uniforms were to be worn, and on the enemy’s approach, after all food stocks had been destroyed, and mills, bridges, and boats burnt, the villages were to be abandoned and refuge sought in the woods and hills. ‘Such’, writes Fain, ‘are the new means that the . . . enemies of Napoleon propose to employ against him.’1  It was to be a repetition of 1792.Thus Napoleon, like a missionary -  indeed he was one with cannon and sword -  preached the gospel of the Nation in Arms throughout the length and breadth of Europe, and in time it became the military creed of all her troublesome peoples. Spiritually linked with this is what Stanis