nd in their own nature.’1Therefore moderation is the keynote, and nothing must be done to hinder a return to peace, of which Vattel says:‘A treaty of peace can be no more than a compromise. Were the rules of strict and rigid justice to be observed in it, so that each party should precisely receive every thing to which he has a just title, it would be impossible ever to make a peace. First, with regard to the very subject which occasioned the war, one of the parties would be under a necessity of ackow- ledging himself in the wrong, and condemning his own unjust pretensions; which he will hardly do, unless reduced to the last extremity. But if he owns the injustice of his cause, he must at the same time condemn every measure he has pursued in support of it: he must restore what he has unjustly taken, must reimburse the expenses of the war, and repair damages. And how can a just estimate of all the damages be formed? W hat 1  Ibid., p. 369.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 22 --- price can be set on all the blood that has been shed, the loss of such a number of citizens, and the ruin of families? Nor is this all. Strict justice would further demand that the author of an unjust war should suffer a penalty proportionate to the injuries for which he owes satisfaction, and such as might ensure the future safety of him whom he has attacked. How shall the nature of that penalty be determined, and the degree of it pre­cisely regulated? In fine, even he who had justice on his side may have transgressed the bounds of justifiable self-defence, and been guilty of improper excesses in the prosecution of the war whose object was originally lawful: here then are so many wrongs, of which strict justice would demand reparation. He may have made conquests and taken booty beyond the value of his claim. Who shall make an exact calculation, a just esti­mate of this? Since, therefore, it would be dreadful to perpet­uate the war, or to pursue it to the utter ruin of one of the parties