ction are in the hands of a single man, as they were in Napoleon’s after he became First Consul in January, 1800. This full unity is not obtained when, as is normal in war, political decisions are divorced from military actions. This was the case under the Directory, and because Napoleon was aware of it, when he took over command of the Army of Italy he defined what unity of command entailed. On 19th January 1796, he wrote to the 1  Ibid., Vol. I, p. 363.*  Napoleon in Caricature  1795-1821, A. M. Broadley (1911), Vol. I,  pp. 99-100.*  Corresp ., XXXI, p. 418.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 48 --- NAPOLEONIC WARFARE 45 Directors: ‘The government must have entire confidence in its general; allow him great latitude, and only provide him with the aim he should attain.’1  Which, granted the aim to be a rational one, is a full definition. On military singleness of command he wrote: ‘In military operations, I only consult myself; in diplomatic, I consult everybody’;2  and of his 1796 campaign: ‘I made this campaign without consulting anyone; I should have accomplished nothing worthwhile had I been compelled to reconcile my actions with those of another.’3As far as circumstances permit, unity of command demands the assembly of all available forces under a single  general in the main  theatre of operations, and a common tendency of an ignorant or a weak government is to scatter its forces in order to cover all vital points. In 1806, this was the course taken by Joseph Bonaparte King of Naples; to whom, on 7th June, Napoleon caustically wrote: ‘If you intend to protect all points in your kingdom, there will not be sufficient troops in all France.’4Unity of command was the foundation of Napoleon’s many victorious campaigns and, strangely -  as later we shall see -  it became an element in his eventual downfall. Nevertheless, his maxims: ‘In war men are nothing, it is the one man who is all’,5  and ‘One bad general [in command]. . .  is worth two good ones’, 6  remain