on­tinued to show much brutality; but the atrocities they per­petrated were individual acts and not acts of policy. With some justification Jefferson Davis calls Sherman ‘the Attila of the American Continent.’3Terror was the basic factor in Sherman’s policy, he openly says so. Here are three citations out of a considerable number:‘Untill we can repopulate Georgia, it is useless to occupy it; but the utter destruction of the roads, houses and people will 1  Personal Memoirs of General W. T. Sherman  (1957 edition), Vol. II,  p. 111. On this, Sherman comments: ‘I knew, of course, that such a  measure would be strongly criticized, but made up my mind to do it,  with the absolute certainty of its justice, and that time would sanction  its wisdom.’2  The Story of the Great March  (1865), p. 80.*  The Rise and Fall of the Confederate Government  (1881), Vol. II,  p. 279.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 112 --- cripple their military resources . . .  I can make the march, and make Georgia howl.’1‘Should I be forced to assault. . .  I shall then feel justified in resorting to the harshest measures, and shall make little effort to restrain my army.’2‘We are not only fighting hostile armies, but a hostile people, and must make old and young, rich and poor, feel the hard hand of w ar.. . .  The truth is the whole army is burning with an insatiable desire to wreak vengeance upon South Carolina. I almost tremble for her fate.’3Sherman, like Nichols, believed that his army was ‘God’s instrument of justice.’4  Hitchcock, another of Sherman’s aides-de-camp, says much the same thing: ‘It is war now that it may not be war always . God send us peace -  but there is no peace save in complete submission to the Government:  and this seems impossible save through the terrors of war.’6  Also: ‘Sherman is perfectly right -  the only possible way to end this unhappy and dreadful conflict. . .  is to make it terrible beyond  endurance .’6Although the soldiers were forbidden to enter ci