tive genius, who built a ‘plunging boat’, called Nautilus , which in Brest harbour re­mained under water for half an hour. In 1812 Dundonald suggested the use of burning sulphur as an asphyxiant, and in 1855 he revived the idea, and urged its use against Sevastopol, but his proposal was rejected as too horrible to contemplate.The remaining two weapons were steam operated. The first was the Perkins steam-gun, an account of a demonstration of which, attended by the Duke of Wellington, is to be found in The Courier , a London newspaper of December 9 1825. We are told that it discharged nearly 1,000 balls per minute, which penetrated a quarter-inch thick iron plate. In the editor’s opinion, ‘this wonderful specimen of human ingenuity and 1  Ibid., p. 18.*  Historical Memoir of the War in West Florida and Louisiana in  1814-15  (1816), p. 154.8  Congreve Rocket System  etc., p. 42.4  Cited by Captain Boxer in his pamphlet on the Congreve Rocket  (1860), pp. 65-66.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 94 --- destructive power’  heralded an era of universal peace, ‘for how could any population supply the loss by such destructive instruments.’  Its use would seem to have been revived during the Crimean War, in which another novel weapon was sug­gested. In 1855 James Cowan, a wealthy philanthropist, took out a patent for a steam-driven ‘locomotive land battery fitted with scythes to mow down infantry.’  It was a four-wheeled armoured vehicle armed with guns, and ‘looked like a huge dish-cover on wheels.’  It was rejected by Lord Palmerston as being too brutal for civilized warfare.1In 1813, Robert Fulton built the first steam-propelled armoured ship, the Fulton . She was of twin-hull construction with a paddle-wheel between the hulls, and she was protected by a belt of timber fifty-eight inches in thickness. This mon­strous vessel clearly showed that a more suitable system of propulsion and a less clumsy means of protection were needed. In 1836 the first was met by John Er