termed  Clausewitz ‘one of the most notable writers on the philosophy  of wars and on the history of wars . . .  a writer, whose basic  thoughts have at present become the indisputable acquisitions  of every thinking person.’3The influence of Clausewitz on him is to be found scattered among his many pamphlets. For instance, in ‘The Impending Catastrophe and How to Combat it’, written in September 1917, he bade his followers remember that ‘The character of war is determined by the policy  of which the war is a con­tinuation (“war is the continuation of politics”), by the class  that is waging the war, and by the aims for which it is being waged.’4  And that war ‘itself does not change the direction in which the politics were developing before the war; it only accelerates this development.’5In his ‘Advice of an Onlooker’, written on 21st October 1917, in preparation for the October Revolution, Lenin outlined the technique of insurrection to be employed. ‘Armed insurrec­tion’, he said, ‘is a special  form of the political struggle’; a truth expressed by Marx ‘with remarkable clarity when he wrote that armed “insurrection is an art quite as much as war”.’  He then went on to say: ‘Of the principal rules of the art, Marx noted the following’  -  they are closely akin to Clausewitz’s principles of war,6  but related to an armed insurrection: 1  See English edition of On War,  Vol. I ll, pp. 118-30, and supra  Chapter IV, Section 4.2  Lenin’s Collected Works  (English edition), Vol. XVIII, p. 224.8  Cited by Garthoff, op. cit., p. 55.4  Selected Works , Vol. II, p. 116.6  Cited by Taracouzio, op. cit., p. 275.• See supra , Chapter IV, Section 6.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 210 --- ‘(1) Never play  with insurrection, but when beginning it  firmly realize that you must go to the end.‘(2) You must concentrate a great superiority of forces  at the  decisive point, at the decisive moment, otherwise the enemy,  who has the advantage of better preparation and organizat