cap and the cylindro- conoidal bullet, revolutionized infantry tactics. The first was impracticable before the discovery of fulminate of mercury in 1800 -  an explosive which detonates on concussion. Seven years later, the Revd A. Forsyth patented a percussion priming powder composed of chlorate of potash, fulminate of mercury and powdered glass, and in 1816, among other claimants, Thomas Shaw of Philadelphia invented the copper percussion cap. Although it led to the introduction of the percussion- operated sporting gun, vastly reduced misfires, and, unlike the flintlock, could be fired in windy and rainy weather, so conser­vative was the British Ordnance Department that not until 1839 were flintlock muskets converted to the percussion prin- 1  The Poetry and Aesthetics of Erasmus Darwin , James Venable Logan  (1936), p. 117. Dr Erasmus Darwin was grandfather of Charles Darwin  the naturalist.INFLUENCES OF THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 87  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 91 --- 88 THE CONDUCT OF WAR ciple. Its superiority became immediately apparent; in 1841 ‘A company of Sepoys, armed with flintlock muskets, which would not go off in a heavy rain, were closely surrounded by some 1,000 Chinese and were in imminent peril, when two com­panies of marines, armed with percussion-cap muskets, were ordered up, and soon dispersed the enemy with great loss.’1The cylindro-conoidal bullet was invented by Captain Norton of the British 34th Regiment in 1823. It had a hollow base, so that, when fired, the bullet would expand and seal the bore. The origin of his idea is an interesting one: when in Southern India, he examined the blow-pipe arrows used by the natives, and found that their base was formed of elastic locus pith, which by its expansion against the inner surface of the blow-pipe prevented the escape of air past it (windage).In 1836, Mr Greener, a London gunsmith, improved on Norton’s bullet by inserting a conoidal wooden plug into its base. Although both inventions we