e right to exist’  (p. 242). 1  Hitler Speaks,  p. 254.2  See Speeches of Adolf Hitler 1922-1939,  edited by Norman H.  Baynes (1942), and Hitler's Words, (Speeches, 1922-1943),  edited by  (Jordon W. Prange (1944).8  Page references are to James Murphy’s English translation of Mein  Kampf  (1939).  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 231 --- 228 THE CONDUCT OF WAR On the question of race, he said to Rauschning:‘The conception of the nation has become meaningless. . . .  The “nation” is a political expedient of democracy and  Liberalism. We have to . . . set in its place the conception of  race.. .. The new order cannot be conceived in terms of the  national boundaries of the peoples with an historic past, but  in terms of race that transcends those boundaries.. . .  I know  perfectly w ell. . . that in a scientific sense there is no such  thing as race .. . [but] I as a politician need a conception which  enables the order which has hitherto existed on historic bases  to be abolished and an entirely new and anti-historic order  enforced and given an intellectual basis. . . .  And for this pur­pose the conception of races serves me well. . . . France carried  her great Revolution beyond her borders with the conception  of the nation. With the conception of race, National Socialism  will carry its revolution abroad and recast the world.‘I shall bring into operation throughout all Europe and the  whole world this process of selection which we have carried out  through National Socialism in Germany.. . .  The active sec­tion in the nations, the militant Nordic section,1  will rise  again and become the ruling element over these shopkeepers  and pacifists, these puritans and speculators and busybodies.’2Hitler’s foreign policy derived from his concept of the  biological struggle: might is right, not only in the jungle but  also in international affairs. The stronger nation masters the  weaker, and therefore is the fitter to survive. The future, as  Hitler saw it, woul