’4In all these drawn-out operations of the limited warfare era, attrition was the key principle. Because money was seldom plentiful, and standing armies, unlike militias, had to be paid 1  York edition (1904), pp. 231-93.2  A Treatise on the Art of War , etc. (1677), p. 15.8  The Earlier Life and Chief Earlier Works of Daniel Defoe , Henry  Morley (1889), p. 135.4  Memoirs of Goldoni , (trans. John Black, 1814), Vol. I, p. 207.THE LIMITED WARS OF THE ABSOLUTE KINGS 23  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 27 --- 24 THE CONDUCT OF WAR all the year round, it was obvious to the enlightened soldiers of this age that to exhaust the enemy’s treasury was as potent a means of winning a war, and normally at smaller loss to oneself, than to attem pt to destroy his army in battle. Money, not blood, was the deciding factor, and when through constant manoeuvring, which demanded high skill and sure judgment, the enemy’s treasury began to run dry, rather than face bank­ruptcy he foreclosed with his opponent in a negotiated peace. This, in other words, is what Marshal Saxe has to say on the subject of a battle:‘Although I have dwelt so much upon the subject of general engagements, yet I am far from approving of them in practice, especially at the commencement of a war; yet I am persuaded that an able General might avoid them, and yet carry on the war as long as he pleased. Nothing reduces an enemy so much as that method of conduct, or is productive of so many advantages.’1Modern critics, and notably Marshal Foch, have assumed that he was altogether opposed to fighting battles, and have ridiculed him for holding what to them is such an unwarlike view; an error, due either to their failure to read his Reveries , or, in order to support their contentions, to omit the rest of the paragraph.The victor of Fontenoy, Rocoux and Lauffeldt appreciated as fully as did Frederick and Foch the value of battle; he con­cludes his paragraph as follows:‘Nevertheless, I would not be understood to sa