apers of the Military Historical Society of Massachusetts  (1895),  Vol. 10, pp. 148-51.*  Why was Lincoln Murdered?,  Otto Eisenschiml (1937), p. 245.*  Op. cit., Vol. II, p. 9.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 115 --- 112 THE CONDUCT OF WAR and wheat from the fields, while hundreds of thousands of  emigrants poured into the cities and over the plains.Within less than two generations after the war ended, the  United States had risen to be the greatest capitalist and the  greatest industrial power in the world. Stephen Vincent Ben6t  calls them ‘The great metallic beast’, and depicts their emer­gence from the titanic struggle of the Civil War in these  tremendous lines: % ‘Out of John Brown's strong sinews the tall  skyscrapers grow ,Out of his heart the chanting buildings rise,Rivet and girder , motor and dynamo ,Pillar of smoke by day and fire by night ,The steel faced cities reaching at the skies ,The whole enormous and rotating cage  Hung with hard jewels of electric light ,Smoky with sorrow , black with splendor , dyed Whiter than damask for a crystal bride  With metal suns , the engine-handed Age ,The genie we have raised to rule the earth."1 1  Op. cit., p. 870.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 116 --- C H A PT E R  V II Moltke, Foch, and Bloch * 1' Field Marshal von Moltke The need for an effective General Staff, the lack of which had so largely led to the ruin of the Napoleonic system, was first recognized by Prussia, and although its origins ante-date the battle of Jena, it was not until after 1806, when General Gerhard von Scharnhorst, as Minister of War, set out to re­organize the Prussian army that a true General Staff came into being. To assist him in this task, Scharnhorst added to the Ministry a special section, whose duties were to collate intelligence, concern itself with strategy and tactics, and pre­pare operations. To extend his control over the army, he posted staff officers to its formations.In 1821, a change was made; the king too