rous prosecution of the war, took over the government. Five days later Germany and her allies put forward notes in which they stated their willingness to consider peace proposals.Although Austria’s desire for peace was undoubtedly genu­ine, it may be questioned whether Germany’s was. Russia was now tottering, and when she collapsed, Germany would be able to transfer a million men to the Western Front. Anyhow the outcome was that, on 31st January 1917, the Kaiser com­manded that the U-boat campaign should be placed on an unrestricted footing. This so exasperated the United States that two days later diplomatic relations between Washington and Berlin were severed.Meanwhile, on 15th November 1916, at an Allied conference assembled to consider the 1917 plan of campaign, the decision was to carry out a series of offensives on all fronts, with the Western Front as the principal one. A month later General Nivelle who, on 13th December had succeeded Joffre as French C.-in-C., accepted the decision, and it was agreed that the British should first attack on the Arras front to draw in and exhaust the enemy’s reserves, after which the French would attack on the Aisne. The French aim was a decisive one, to break through the enemy’s position; but should the rupture be found to be insufficient, the battle was to be broken off, and the offensive transferred to the Flanders front.The first of these battles opened on 9th April, and was heralded by a bombardment of 2,700,000 shells. It was con­tinued until 21st May, by when an advance of five miles hadTHE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 169  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 173 --- 170 THE CONDUCT OF WAR been made on a frontage of twenty miles, and up to 3rd May at a cost of 158,000 British casualties and an estimated150.000  German. Eight days after it was launched, the French  offensive on the Aisne opened and failed. It cost the French187.000 casualties1  and the Germans 163,000. Nivelle was re­placed by General P6tain, and the demoral