wonder General Busch was astonished, because no conventional general would have placed it more than a dozen miles west of that river. So distant an objective discloses the secret of Guderian’s Blitzkrieg .It was to employ mobility as a psychological weapon: not  to kill but to move; not to move to kill but to move to terrify,  to bewilder, to perplex, to cause consternation, doubt and con­fusion in the rear of the enemy, which rumour would magnify  until panic became monstrous. In short, its aim was to paralyse 1  Panzer Leader , General Heinz Guderian (English edition, 1952), p. 92.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 260 --- not only the enemy’s command but also his government, and  paralysation would be in direct proportion to velocity. To  paraphrase Danton: ‘Speed, and still more speed, and always  speed’ was the secret, and that demanded ide Vaudace, et encore  de Vaudace, et toujou/rs de Vaudace .’In May 1940, the German forces which invaded France were organized into three Army Groups -  A, B and C. C was de­ployed to contain the Maginot Line, with A and B north of it. The frontage of B extended between Winterswijk, on the Dutch frontier, and Aachen, and from Aachen A’s extended to C’s right flank. A comprised three armies, the Fourth on the right, the Twelfth in the centre, and the Sixteenth on the left. Out of a total of ten armoured divisions, the 5 th and 7th were allotted to the Fourth Army; the 6th and 8th were formed into the XLIst Armoured Corps, under General Rein­hardt, and the 1st, 2nd and 10th into the X lX th Armoured Corps, commanded by Guderian. Together they were grouped under General von Kleist, and were assembled in the Twelfth Army area. This group, with the 7th Armoured Division, under General Rommel, on its right, constituted the striking force.Its task was to advance through the Ardennes, cross the  Meuse between Dinant and Sedan, and smash through the  enemy front. In illustration of Blitzkrieg in excelsis,  it is  sufficient to fol