tributed to the disaster of Caporetto, when 400,000 soldiers abandoned the battlefield; and, as early as 26th May, in a letter to Sir Douglas Haig, Sir William Robertson wrote: T am afraid there is no getting 1  M y War Memoirs 1914r-1918,  Vol. II, p. 684.2  Already, on 16th April, the Russian brigades which had been sent  to France in 1916 -  whose favourite paper was edited by Trotsky until  he was expelled -  had mutinied in their camp at La Courtine, and only  surrendered after a three days’  bombardment.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 181 --- 1 7 8 THE CONDUCT OF WAR away from the fact that there is some unrest in the country  now as a result, partly, of the Russian revolution. There have  been some bad strikes recently, and there is still much dis­content.’1When the war opened, the blockade was hamstrung by the Declaration of London, and it only became effective when its restrictions had been progressively whittled away by a series of British Orders in Council. The second of these Orders, issued on 29th October 1914, severely curtailed supplies entering Germany and Austria, and, on 4th February 1915, the German reply was, that all waters surrounding Great Britain and Ireland would be blockaded by submarines. On 7th May this led to the sinking of the Lusitania  and the loss of 128 American lives. It sent a thrill of horror through the United States and raised a clamour for war. Freed from American opposition to search at sea, on 15th May, by another Order in Council the British Government declared goods of all kinds entering or leaving Germany contraband. Thus full blockade was estab­lished, and the Kaiser, alarmed by the American outcry, ordered all attacks on passenger and neutral shipping to cease. So matters stood until 31st January 1917, when, as we have seen, he proclaimed an unrestricted submarine campaign, and in April the United States declared war on Germany.The blockade struck at every man, woman and child, every  factory and every farm in t