n diverted to the Balkans.’1Thus Churchill’s suggestion -  which had nothing directly to  do with the Balkans -  that it was more profitable to employ the  Army of Italy in a ‘thrust against Vienna through the  Ljubljana Gap’2  than to divert a large part of it to Southern  France came to naught, and with it the last chance of a  German defeat before the Russians could cross the German  eastern frontier.‘By the first of September’, writes General Bradley, ‘the  enemy’s June strength on the Western front had been cut  down to a disorganized corporal’s guard.’8  Notwithstanding,  pursuit was out of the question, not because Eisenhower  lacked troops, but because he had not sufficient petrol to keep  mobile the vast number he had. Instead of contracting his  battle front, as Montgomery urged, he decided to slow down  his advance and prepare for another major battle on his entire 1  The Second World War,  Vol. VI, p. 57, and Appendix D.*  Ibid., Vol. VI, p. 57.*  A Soldier's Story,  Omar Bradley (English edition, 1951), p. 411.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 296 --- front. This delay provided the Germans with a breathing space  in which to reorganize.Further to cripple allied strategy, during the Second Quebec Conference, which assembled on 10th September, Mr Henry Morgenthau, Secretary of the United States Treasury, brought forward a plan to prevent rearmament of Germany after the war. It was largely drafted by Harry Dexter White, Morgen- thau’s Assistant Secretary, who in August 1951 was cited before the Senate Security Sub-Committee, and found to be a Soviet agent.1  The aim of the plan was to dismantle or destroy all industrial plants left undamaged by military action; wreck the Ruhr and Saar mines, and convert Germany from an industrial into an agricultural and pastoral country. The plan was accepted by the President and Mr Churchill, and made public on 24th September.2  As it appeared to define in detail what unconditional surrender meant, it convinced the