on of empty ruined cities.’2  The out­come was that on 14th April, two days after President Roosevelt’s death, Mr Harry S. Truman, who had succeeded him, instructed Eisenhower to halt his troops on the Elbe, and abandon Berlin and Prague to the Russians. The former was occupied by them on 2nd May, and the latter on the day following the cessation of hostilities at midnight 8th-9th May.‘For the United States and Great Britain, the fruits of the battle of Normandy were apples of Sodom, which turned to ashes as soon as they were plucked. Hitler and his legions were destroyed, and in their stead stood Stalin and his Asiatic hordes. Because “Victory -  victory at all costs” had been the Western Allies aim, and because of their insistence that “it was to be the defeat, ruin, and slaughter of Hitler, to the exclusion of all other purposes, loyalties and aims”, Stalin, the supreme realist, whose strategy had throughout kept in step with his policy, had been able to impose his messianic cult upon Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, part of Finland, Poland, eastern and central Germany, a third of Austria, Yugoslavia, Hungary, Rumania, and Bulgaria. Vienna, Prague and Berlin, the vertebrae of Europe, were his, and, except for Athens, so was every capital city in eastern Europe. The western frontier of Russia had been advanced from the Pripet Marshes to the Thuringerwald, a distance of 750 miles, and, as in the days of Charlemange, the Slavs stood on the Elbe and the Bohmerwald. A thousand years of European history had been rolled back.’3 1  The Second World War,  Vol. VI, p. 370.*  Report of the Supreme Commander to the Combined Chiefs of Staff on  the Operations in Europe of the Allied Expeditionary Force, 6 June 1944  to 8 May 1945  (1946), p. 181.*  Cited from the author’s The Decisive Battles of the Western World  (1956), Vol. Ill, p. 589.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 300 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 9 7 10  • The Tactical Grand Climacteric The great naval battle of