ed to read his Clausewitz; had he done so, he could not have put the cart before the horse. In any case an exacted peace can be no more than an armistice, which actually happened.As regards the aims of the two alliances, which their re­spective policies should have co-ordinated with the means at  their disposal as well as with strategical and other conditions,  they may be inferred from the causes which brought the two  alliances into being. That of France was to cripple Germany,  regain Alsace-Lorraine, and re-establish her leadership on the  continent, which she had been deprived of by Sadowa and  Sedan. That of Russia was to absorb the Balkans, and with  them gain Constantinople and an outlet to the Mediterranean, on 1st July, was extended to include all Allied aimies, in no way contra­dicts this, because his powers were so limited that he could expect no  more from his subordinate commanders -  Sir Douglas Haig, General  P6tain, General Pershing and General Diaz -  than optional execution of  his instructions. 1  Soldiers and Statesmen , 1914-1918  (1926), Vol. II, pp. 296-7.2  British Official History of the Great War , ‘France and Belgium’  compiled by Brigadier-General J. E. Edmonds (1922), Vol. I, App. 8,  p. 442.*  Soldiers and Statesmen , Vol. II, p. 296.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I  153  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 157 --- 154 THE CONDUCT OF WAK which meant the emasculation, if not the disintegration, of the  Austro-Hungarian Empire. That of Germany was to prevent  either of these contingencies, and maintain her supremacy.  That of Great Britain was to destroy Germany as a trade rival,  which she could only do with the aid of France and Russia.  Her position was an anomalous one, as it had so often been in  her coalition wars. Should the Central Powers be decisively  defeated, the consequent supremacy of France in Western  Europe, and the expansion of Russia in south-eastern Europe,  would unhinge the balance of power on the continent, the  mainte