y and the means of distribution. From the first, had bombing been restricted to them, vast economies would have been effected, and the savings could have been invested in the production of landing- craft, anti-submarine and transport aircraft, which through­out the war were in constant short supply.According to the Survey , the total tonnage of bombs dropped in the European war by British and American aircraft was2.700.000 tons; of which 30.5 per cent, fell on military targets, 13.5 per cent, on industrial, 24 per cent, on urban, and 32 per cent, on railways, canals, and synthetic oil plants (p. 71). Therefore, when military targets are excluded, it will be seen that a greater tonnage of bombs was dropped on secondary targets (industrial and urban) than on primary (railways and synthetic oil). This, in no small part, was due to Churchill’s insensate itch to kill Germans, or, as he is reported to have said: ‘To make the enemy burn and bleed in every way.’1According to the Survey , England devoted 40 to 50 per cent, of her war production to her air forces, and the United States 35 per cent. Therefore, no more than 50 to 60 per cent, was allotted to British sea and land power combined. In agreement with this, when on 2nd March 1944, Sir James Grigg, Secre­tary of State for War, introduced the Army Estimates, he informed the House of Commons that ‘The R.A.F. programme is already employing more workpeople than the Army pro­gramme, and I daresay that there are, in fact, as many engaged on making heavy bombers as on the whole Army programme.’2 1  The Times  (London), 2nd February 1943.*  Parliamentary Debates , 5th Series, Vol. 397, col. 1602.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 290 --- Whatever the numbers may have been, they were largely  wasted on an operation which Churchill once had called ‘an  ‘experimental horror.’1 8 •  The Architects of Disaster The debacle of the Axis forces in the battle of Tunis, 6th-12th May 1943, was only second in importance to the German