is aimed to constitute a common power-house as well as a common market, and all production not absorbed by the latter will become ‘ammuni­tion’ wherewith to bombard the West. Should China be in­cluded in this economic bloc, Isaac Deutscher estimates that eventually a single economic entity will come into being with a common market four or five times larger than the North American, and at least twice as large as the North American and Western European markets combined.2That this change in policy is aimed to undermine the economy of the Capitalist countries is beyond doubt, because, even before it was finally decided, the advance guard of the attack had taken the field. In November 1955, at a reception in Moscow, Khrushchev told a British press reporter: ‘Your system will collapse through economic competition with Com­munism’;8  and that same year, writes Mr Welton, ‘. .. goods from Russia, Poland, Hungary, Rumania, Bulgaria, Czecho­slovakia, East Germany and China were entering the Middle East on terms beyond the competitive power of the West.’  These countries, he adds, ‘were not only prepared to take Middle East products whether they needed them or not, but also to grant credit facilities which no democratic government 1  Cited in Survey of International Affairs 1955-1956,  pp. 248-4.*  The Great Contest,  p. 51.*  Cited in The Third World War,  Harry Welton (1959), p. 6.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 328 --- THE PROBLEM OF PEACE 325 answerable to the taxpayer and the free trade unions could possibly match.’1Further, he cites what Mr John Diefenbaker, Prime Minister of Canada, had to say on this question at an Anglo-Canadian rally in London on 4th November 1958:‘Trade has become a major weapon in the Communist world offensive. First it was the U.S.S.R., and now Red China has joined in an Asian trade onslaught, intended to capture markets and, with and through them, the minds of free men. The Communist drive is designed to undermine the economy and strength