ed about the European situation . . .  what is to happen about Russia? . . .  An iron curtain is drawn down upon their front. We do not know what is going on behind. There seems little doubt that the whole of the regions east of the line Lubeck-Trieste-Corfu will soon be com­pletely in their hands.. . .  Meanwhile the attention of our peoples will be occupied in inflicting severities upon Germany, which is ruined and prostrate, and it would be open to the Russians in a very short time to advance if they chose to the waters of the North Sea and the Atlantic. . . .  To sum up, this issue of a settlement with Russia before our strength had gone seems to me to dwarf all others.’1As to this, he was indubitably right, but he is oblivious of the part he had played in bringing this calamitous situation about. When the conduct of the war was his alone, he had proclaimed ‘Victory at all costs” to be his aim. That he should have done so is unintelligible, because his judgment on the First World War had been masterly:‘Governments and individuals’, he had written, ‘conformed to this rhythm of the tragedy and swayed and staggered for­ward in helpless violence, slaughtering and squandering on ever-increasing scales, till injuries were wrought to the struc­ture of human society which a century will not efface. . . Victory was to be bought so dear as to be almost indistinguish­able from defeat. It was not to give even security to the victors.. .. The most complete victory ever gained in arms has failed to solve the European problem or to remove the dangers which produced the war.’2Now that victory had been won at all costs, the problem was how to halt ‘the vast manifestation of Soviet imperialism.’  But the Americans had no intention of halting it. The will to war and destruction of Germany that had characterized the Roosevelt period was during the Truman sequel to be carried into the peace in order to propitiate public opinion, and with no regard to the future. Militarism, not stat