nown political pamphlet Le Souper de Beaucaire 4  he wrote: ‘In the art of war it is an axiom that he who remains in his trenches will be beaten: experience and theory are in accord with this.’  Static warfare was anathema to Napoleon. 4 •  The Defects of Napoleonic Warfare Napoleon’s failure to achieve final victory, and through it a peace, not only profitable to France but also acceptable to her opponents, may be traced to three radical defects in his conduct of war. The first, a military one, was over-centaliza- tion of command; the second, a political one, was his unrealistic 1  Ibid., X XXI, p. 347.*  Ibid., XIV, No. 12111.*  Ibid., V, No. 4083.4  Included in Panckoucke’s Oeuvres de NapoUon Bonaparte , Vol. V.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 56 --- NAPOLEONIC WARFARE 53 policy; and his third, a grand-strategical one, that the means he relied upon to accomplish his policy could at best only lead to an armistice. c o m m a n d . As regards the first, earlier in this chapter it was stated that, although his insistence on unifying command in his person led to a long succession of victories, ultimately it became an element in his downfall: how did this come about?The answer is twofold: Firstly, as the war lengthened, it became so widespread, so complex, and the forces engaged in it so considerable that, without a well-organized General Staff, it was no longer possible for a single man -  genius though he was -  to manage it efficiently. Secondly, his enemies came gradually to understand that it was lack of unity between themselves which impeded the combination of their armies against him, and unless they did combine them they would continue to be defeated in detail. Ultimately, during the summer armistice which occurred in the middle of the Leipzig campaign, unity was established by the Treaty of Reichen- bach, and, in accordance with one of its clauses, the Allied Powers -  Russia, Austria, Prussia and Sweden -  agreed that under no circumstances was any one