ritish Foreign Office; therefore, on 4th September 1939, Chamberlain opened the ideological attack in a broad­cast to the German people. He said: ‘In this war we are not fighting against you, the German people, for whom we have no bitter feeling, but against a tyrannous and foresworn regime.’4  Clearly his aim was to stimulate the Opposition, and from now on to divide the German people became a main plank in his policy.After the defeat of Poland, in reply to Hitler’s peace pro­posals -  which were rejected by the British and French  Governments -  Chamberlain declared:‘We have no intention of depriving of her rightful place in  Europe, a Germany which will live in friendship and confidence  with other nations.’  We look forward to the solutions ‘through  negotiation and agreement when time for that came.. .. We  did not enter this war from revengeful motives, but only to  defend freedom. We seek no material advantage for ourselves.  We desire nothing from the German people which would  wound their self-respect.’5In mid-February 1940, two British Foreign Office repre­ 1  Parliamentary Debates , 5th Series, Vol. 351, col. 295.2  Compare with Vattel’s first rule of ‘the voluntary law of nations’;  see supra  Chapter I, p. 17.8  See The German Resistance , Gerhard Ritter (English edition, 1958),  pp. 95 and 101.4  Documents concerning German Polish Relations , Cmd. 6106 (1939),  No. 144, p. 195.• Cited by Ritter, op. cit., p. 142.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 5 1  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 255 --- 252 THE CONDUCT OF WAR sentatives met a member of the Opposition at Ouchy in Switzerland, and brought with them a tentative offer of five points in writing, the translation of which reads:‘(1) Assurance will be given that the British Government will not by attacking in the West use to Germany’s military disadvantage any passing crisis which may be connected with the action taken by the German Opposition.‘(2) The British Government declares itself ready to work with