lation which followed the French occupation of the Ruhr had engulfed her, and restored her national dignity and economy. As the other, he brutalized vast numbers of her people and made her name stink in the nostrils of the world.He was a consummate psychologist and probably the world’s greatest demagogue, a man who could plumb to its deepest depths the irrational in human nature, and distil from the emotions of the masses potent political intoxicants. Above all, he had absolute faith in himself and a super-rational belief in his invicibility, which endowed him with an irresistible personal magnetism. As a statesman, his ability to sense and grasp the psychological moment for action was his outstanding gift. Once he said to Hermann Rauschning:‘No matter what you attempt, if an idea is not yet mature, you will not be able to realise it. I know that as an artist, and I know it as a statesman. Then there is only one thing to do: have patience, wait, try again, wait again. In the subconscious, the work goes on. It matures, sometimes it dies. Unless I have the inner, incorruptible conviction: this is the solution , I do nothing. Not even if the whole party tries to drive me to action. I will not act; I will wait, no matter what happens. But if the voice speaks, then I know the time has come to act.’1  When that moment arrives, ‘When a decision has to be taken’, Goering once said to Sir Nevile Henderson, ‘none of us count more than the stones on which we were standing. It is the Fuehrer alone who decides.’2Rauschning, no flatterer of Hitler, writes: 1  Hitler Speaks , Hermann Rauschning (1939), p. 181.*  Failure of a Mission , Sir Nevile Henderson (1940), p. 282.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 230 --- THE TWENTY YEARS ARMISTICE 2 2 7 ‘I have often had the opportunity of examining my own experience, and I must admit that in Hitler’s company I have again and again come under a spell which I was only later able to shake off, a sort of hypnosis. He is, indeed, a remark