tes Major-General Sir  John Kennedy. ‘He is like a child that has set his mind on  some forbidden toy. It is no good explaining that it will cut  his fingers or burn him. The more you explain, the more fixed  he becomes in his idea’ . . .  ‘Whenever an idea, however wild,  was thrown up, he ordered detailed examinations, or plans,  or both, to be made at high speed. . . . To cope with the situ­ation adequately, it would almost have been worth while to  have two staffs: one to deal with the Prime Minister, the  other with the war’ .. . ‘Everybody realized and appreciated  Churchill’s great qualities. But there were few who did not  sometimes doubt whether these were adequate compensation  for his methods of handling the war machine... .’2Three days after assuming the premiership, Churchill sum­moned the House of Commons for a vote of confidence in the  new administration, and after offering its members ‘blood,  toil, sweat and tears’, he declared his policy.‘You ask’, he said, ‘What is our policy? I will say: It is to  wage war, by sea, land and air, with all our might and with all  the strength that God can give us: to wage war against a 1  The Turn of the Tide , Arthur Bryant (1957), pp. 415, 502 & 723.  Alanbrooke was C.I.G.S. from December 1941, to the end of the war.*  The Business of War,  Sir John Kennedy (1957), pp. 275, 173 & 61. Kennedy was Director of Operations at the War Office from October  1940, to the end of 1944.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 258 --- monstrous tyranny, never surpassed in the dark, lamentable  catalogue of human crime. That is our policy. You ask, What  is our aim? I can answer in one word: Victory -  victory at all  costs, victory in spite of all terror, victory, however long and  hard the road may be. . .. Come, then, let us go forward  together with our united strength.’1In war, victory is never more than a means toward the end, and to the true statesman, the end of war is peace. This Churchill failed to understand until t