manizing of the practice of war would have been impossible without [their] discipline; . . . and without them the important distinction between members of armed forces and private individuals could not have arisen.’2 1  Ibid., p. 445. 2  Fourth Edition (1926), Vol. II, p. 136.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 24 --- The separation of the soldier from the civilian was largely due to the horror of the barbarities the latter had suffered in the Thirty Years’  War. Further, the exhaustion in population, in resources and in the wealth of every country in Central Europe had been so great that the new standing armies had to be limited in size; also the indifferent state- of communica­tions and agriculture restricted the growth of large ones.1  In every country the army took the form of a disciplined body of long service troops, set apart from the civil population, and rigorously restricted as to its conduct in peace and war. 4 *  Lim ited W arfare In the opening sentence of his Reveries 2  Marshal Saxe, one of the most successful generals of the eighteenth century, writes: ‘Troops are raised either by voluntary engagement, or by capitulation [contract]; sometimes too by compulsion, but most commonly by artifice . .. such as that of secretly putting money into a man’s pocket, and afterwards challenging him for a soldier’, which he reprobates. The men were recruited largely from the dregs of society, and in consequence discipline was ferocious. According to Frederick th e Great, since honour meant nothing to them, ‘They must be made to fear their officers more than danger’, and that ‘the slightest loosening of discipline would lead to barbarization’.3Whether it would have done so may be disputed, but what cannot be is that brutal discipline went far to limit tactics to 1  Marshal Saxe considered the ideal size of an army to be 46,000 men -34,000 foot and 12,000 horse -  say, 50,000 with gunners, etc.*  Posthumously published in French and English in 1757. In spite ofCa