d modem Wars appear to them mere savage  fisticuffs, from which nothing is to be learnt, and which must be regarded  as mere retrograde steps towards barbarism.’  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 65 --- 62 THE CONDUCT OF WAR and with moral forces, the consequence of which is that it can never attain the absolute and positive. There is therefore everywhere a margin for the accidental, and just as much in the greatest things as in the smallest’  (I, p. 21). That ‘War is the province of danger’  (I, p. 47), ‘the province of uncertainty’  (I, p. 48), and ‘the province of chance. In no sphere of human activity is such a margin to be left for this intruder’  (I, p. 49).Further, ‘If, adhering closely to the absolute, we try to avoid all difficulties by a stroke of the pen, and insist with logical strictness that in every case the extreme must be the object, and the utmost effort must be exerted in that direction, such a stroke of the pen would be a mere paper law, not by any means adapted to the real world’  (I, p. 6); in which ‘War belongs. . .  to the province of social life. It is a conflict of great interests which is settled by bloodshed, and only in this is it different from others’  (I, p. 121). Nevertheless, because, as will be seen in the following Section, Clausewitz uses the term ‘absolute war’  to denote Napoleonic warfare, as well as in its philosophical sense of a ‘conflict of forces left to them­selves, and obeying no other but their own inner laws’  (I, p. 6), many of his followers were completely flummoxed and fell victims to his apotheosis of violence. 3 •  Absolute and Real War The subject of this Section is dealt with in Chapter II of Book VIII, in which Clausewitz first refers back to Chapter I of Book VIII, and points out that, although philosophically, there can be ‘no other reality’1  in war than ‘the overthrow of the enemy’, almost everywhere we find that this does not happen-w hy? We need not follow his involved answer, because the common-sen