onstructive ideas what­ever for clothing with the flesh of life the commandments he had thundered from the White House.’3In 1918, Clemenceau was a disillusioned old man of seventy-  seven. When he heard that Germany had accepted the terms  of the Armistice, he exultantly exclaimed: ‘Enfin! II est arrive  ce jour que f  attends depuis un demi-siecle! II est arrivee le jour  de la revanche!'*  He was the apotheosis of French tribalism,  but no hypcrite. His policy was to put back the clock and undo  all that Germany had accomplished since 1870. He ‘stood  throughout the Peace Conference’, writes C. Howard Ellis, ‘for  nothing but hatred and fear, and a cynically frank desire to  cripple and fetter [Germany] for ever.’6  It was he and not the  President who dominated the Conference, and to him the  President’s Charter was sentimental humbug: ‘ Quatorze com - mandementsV  he contemptuously exclaimed, ‘c'est un peu raide!  Le bon Dieu n'en avail que dixF  And to the misfortune of  France, out of his slogan ‘La guerre est finie, la guerre continue ’• emanated the catastrophe of 1940. 1  Ibid., p. 53.2  Half a century earlier, his predecessor, Abraham Lincoln, had fought  one of the most terrible of wars to save his country from this ‘imperative  principle’.8  Keynes, op. cit., p. 39.4  Cited in Furst Billow Denkwilrdigkeiten  (1931), Yol. I ll, p. 302.6  The Origin, Structure and Working of the League of Nations  (1928),  p. 43.• Cited by Arthur Bryant, op. cit., p. 45.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 223 --- 220 THE CONDUCT OF WAR Lloyd George was firstly an artist of power, and secondly an  artisan of peace. He knew what peace demanded, but because  of the enthusiasm awakened by the ending of the war, he  placed power first, and decided to appeal to the country, and  on the tidal wave of popular emotionalism seek an unassailable  mandate.On the day following the Armistice, in an address to his Liberal supporters he said: ‘No settlement which contravenes the princ