d that ‘wars are won rather by industry and cunning than by the actual clash of arms’.2Of these soldiers Sir Charles Oman writes:‘The consequence of leaving the conduct of war in the hands of the great mercenary captains was that it came often to be waged as a mere tactical exercise or a game of chess, the aim being to manoeuvre the enemy into an impossible situation, and then capture him, rather than to exhaust him by a series of costly battles. I t was even suspected th at condottieri , like dishonest pugilists, sometimes settled beforehand th at they would draw the game. Battles when they did occur were often very bloodless affairs . . .  Machiavelli cites cases of general actions in which there were only two or three men-at-arms slain, though the prisoners were to be numbered by hundreds.’8In these inter-mercenary struggles the notion of a foreign diplomacy began to take root, and a distinction between the might of the soldier find the rights of the citizen began to appear. Thus it came about that Italy served as a laboratory for the early diplomatists and jurists of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. 2 •  The Jurists and the Limitation of War The most noted of the jurists was Hugo Grotius (1588-1645) who during the Thirty Years’  War opened an attack on the international anarchy and the destructiveness of unlimited war in his De Jure Belli ac Pads , a textbook of international law, in which he recommended moderation in fighting, 1  Cited in The Cambridge Medieval History,  Vol. VIII, p. 656.*  Cited by F. L. Taylor in The Art of War in Italy, 1494-1529  (1921),p. 11.*  Cambridge Medieval History,  Vol. VIII, p. 656.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 20 --- making conquests, in despoiling the enemy’s country, and in dealing with his civil population. Immediately after the war, Thomas Hobbes (1588-1679) lay down in his Leviathan  that ‘it is a precept, or general rule of Reason, That every man ought  to endeavour Peace, as farre as he has hope of obtai