t he was such.’1  He was the supreme egoist and architect, the entirely isolated and self-centred man who relied on himself alone and centralized everything. Meneval says of him: ‘He took not only the initiative in thought, but also attended personally to the detail of every piece of business . . .  his genius, superhuman in its activity, carried him away; he felt he possessed the means  and the time to manage everything . . .  in reality it was he who did everything.’2Caulaincourt, the most illuminating of his memorialists, says much the same, but even more penetratingly: ‘He spared neither pain, care nor trouble to arrive at his end’, he writes, ‘and this applied as much to little things as to great. He was, one might say, totally given over to his object. He always applied all his means, all his faculties, all his attention to the action or discussion of the moment. Into everything he put passion. Hence the enormous advantage he had over his adver­saries, for few people are entirely absorbed by one thought or one action at one moment.’3  He was a man completely wrapped in his destiny, and he makes mention of this when, in 1812, he set out on the road to Moscow: ‘I feel myself driven towards an end that I do not know. As soon as I shall have reached it, as soon as I shall become unnecessary, an atom will suffice to shatter me. Till then, not all the forces of mankind can do anything against me.’4Apparent to his age, his task was to conquer, hidden from it and from himself, it was to create. In the destruction of an 1  T. Carlyle in ‘The Hero as King’, Heroes and Hero-Worship,%  M&moires pour servir a VHistoire de Napoleon Ier  (1894), Vol. Ill,  pp. 50-51.3  Memoirs of General de Caulaincourt Duke of Vicenza  (English trans  1925), Vol. I, p. 93.4  Cited by Oswald Spengler in The Decline of the West  (1925). Vol. I,  p. 144. Oliver Cromwell made a similar remark; he said: why he mounted  so high was because he did not know what was ordained for him.  File: --- ful