nduct.pdf --- Page 125 --- 122 THE CONDUCT OF WAR Moral effect inspires fear. Fear must be changed into terror in order to conquer. . . .  The moral impulse lies in the per­ception by the enemy of the resolution which animates you.. . .  Manoeuvres . . .  are threats. He who appears most threatening wins.’1Although there is much value in du Picq’s book, especially his comments on classical warfare, he was a man totally carried away by his emotions. He failed to appreciate the moralizing effect of order on the defenders, and the demoraliz­ing effect of disorder on the attackers. He entirely overlooked the moralizing effects of entrenchments, behind which men can fire at those who advance in the open against them. Nevertheless, the French school of the offensive took inspira­tion from him, and in the last decade of the nineteenth century it found its leading exponent in Lieutenant-Colonel Ferdinand Foch (1851-1929).In 1894, Foch was appointed a professor at the ficole  de Guerre , later he became its Commandant, and the lectures he gave his students were published in two books, De la  Conduit de la Guerre , and Des Principes de la Guerre;  they became the new testament of the French army.Foch was an able soldier, and as a Marshal of France one of the few outstanding generals of World War I. Nevertheless, he was so carried away by his theory that the offensive a  outrance  could alone lead to victory, that he was blind to its contradictions.In the first chapter of The Principles of War,2  the later and the more important of his two books, he extols the theory of absolute war as practised by Napoleon and preached by Clausewitz (pp. 24-25). In this there is nothing to complain of, but his deep set prejudice of all other forms of war is noticeable in his unreasoned depreciation of what he calls the ‘antiquated methods’  of war which were upset by the French Emperor. He pours scorn on limited warfare, and among others castigates Marshal Saxe for having said: T am not in fa