y of the Soviet Union ; Leonard Schapiro (1960),  p. 420).  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 250 --- ‘The swift growth of our aviation, tanks and mechanized  formations at first also provoked some of the theoretical twist  of the Fuller type. This was manifested as a new “manoeuver”  theory which considered that the great speed of the tank did  not permit of its use productively in combined operations with  the infantry. From this grew an attempt to claim the complete  independence of tank formations . . .  and non-understanding  of the requirement that tanks, like infantry, cannot success­fully act in combined troop combat without mighty artillery  support.’1Another criticism ran:‘Western military thinkers, like Fuller and Liddell Hart,  are said, in Russia, to be afraid of using the masses in the next  war. Their desire to limit the size of armies, supplementing  man-power by a highly developed technical equipment, is  merely a rationalization of the bourgeois fear of masses.’2Such Marxian silliness was to cost the Russians dear. In 1941, their tactics remained what they had always been, slow forward and backward movements of masses of unthinking men: droves of military kine, an inviting prey for the German armoured tigers. 1  Cited by Raymond L. Garthoff in How Russia Makes War , p. 85.*  Political Science Quarterly , Vol. 51, No. 3 (1930), ‘Soviet Philosophy  of War’, D. Fedotoff White, p. 349.THE TWENTY YEARS ARMISTICE 2 4 7  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 251 --- CHAPTER X III The Conduct of World War II * 1 •  Character of World War I I For war to be an effective instrument of policy, policy must be grounded on actual military conditions, and in 1914 they may be said to have been normal. The war opened on long-estab­lished frontiers and on the traditional lines of a struggle between similarly equipped armies that recognized the customary methods of waging war. But in its last lap, and still more so during its aftermath, very different conditions c