n this question [the maritime problem], which to her was a matter of life and death.’3  And it was because Napoleon realized this that he devised what is known as his Continental System, the closing of all continental ports to English shipping, so that England’s trade would be strangled and her credit undermined, without which she would be unable to raise enemies against him.4‘The power of the English’, he said, ‘. .. rests only upon the monopoly they exercise over other nations, and can be main­tained only by that. Why should they alone reap the benefits 1  Op. cit., Vol. II, pp. 363-4. *  Op. cit., Vol. II, pp. 363-^4.*  Caulaincourt, Vol. II, p. 10. 4  Ibid., Vol. I, p. 531.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 59 --- 56 THE CONDUCT OF WAR which millions of others could reap as well?’1  And again: ‘The good of that Europe which seems to envelop her with goodwill counts for nothing with the merchants of London. They would sacrifice every State in Europe, even the whole world, to further one of their speculations. If their debt were not so large they might be more reasonable. It is the necessity of paying this, of maintaining their credit, that drives them on. . 2In his struggle with England, he saw ‘the basic solution of all the questions’  that were ‘agitating the world and even individuals.’3  Therefore, as he told Caulaincourt, England was his sole enemy: ‘He was working against England alone’, and ‘since their trade had ramifications everywhere he had to pursue them everywhere.’4  It was out of this pursuit that his idea of universal empire arose. From a weapon with which to destroy England, the Continental System became an instru­ment whereby a new world conception would be realized -  the vision of Europe united in concord.When at St. Helena, he informed the world through Las Cases that his aim had been to unite the great European nations, hitherto ‘divided and parcelled out by revolution and policy’, into one confederation bound together by ‘a unity of co