wn no authority but that of the Emperor, the Allied reply of 11th August contained this paragraph: ‘From the moment of surrender the authority of the Emperor and the Japanese Government to rule the state shall be subject to the Supreme Commander of the Allied powers.’3  On the 14th this was accepted by the Emperor; the cease fire was sounded, and on 2nd September the Japanese envoys signed the instrument of surrender.Stimson’s comments on this are illuminating:‘The true question, as he saw it, was not whether surrender could have been achieved without the use of the bomb, but whether a different diplomatic and military course would have led to an earlier surrender. Here the question of intelligence became significant. Interviews after the war indicated clearly that a large element of the Japanese Cabinet was ready in the spring to accept substantially the same terms as those finally agreed on. Information of this general attitude was available to the American Government. . . .  It is possible, in the light of the final surrender, that a clearer and earlier exposition of American willingness to retain the Emperor would have pro­ 1  U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey  (Pacific War), p. 24.2  For reply in full see Butow, Appendix D, p. 244.8  Ibid., Appendix E, p. 245.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 306 --- duced an earlier ending of the war; this course was earnestly advocated by Grew and his immediate associates during May, 1945.uThere can be little doubt, had it not been for the political and strategical myopia induced by the policy of unconditional surrender, that the war could have been ended in May 1945, and it was vital that it should end in May, were a profitable allied peace in the Far East to be won. Had it so ended, Russia could not have intervened, and all the disastrous con­sequences of her intervention would have been avoided. Had it done so, there would have been no need to drop the two atomic bombs which, as Hanson W. Baldwin rightly says were used f