nd not conferences, insurrection and not controversy, which between Russians is apt to be interminable; therefore he urged that the time for an armed uprising was ‘fully ripe’,1  which in Petrograd was opposed by Kamenev and Zinoviev. Infuriated by this, and to prevent a split in the Party, Lenin decided to return to Petrograd. On 23rd October he secretly set out, and in disguise went into hiding at Lesnoye, close by the capital, and on the 25th, in preparation for the rising, the Petrograd Soviet created a Military Revolutionary Committee under Trotsky. On the following day Trotsky won over the garrison of the fortress of St.. Peter and St. Paul, gained possession of the arsenal with10,000 rifles, and at once distributed them anong the Red Guards, which since June had been organized in companies in the factories, and which the Provisional Government was either unwilling or unable to disarm.Actually, this was the death-blow of the Provisonal Govern­ment, for although, on 5th November, Kerensky proclaimed a state of emergency, outlawed the Military Revolutionary Committee and ordered the arrest of Trotsky; deprived as he was of military power to enforce his commands, his orders were dead-letters.At Lesnoye, Lenin had several meetings with his followers,  and plans for revolt were discussed, but he was unable to  persuade them to agree on a date. Convinced that, because  the Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets was due to meet 1  See Selected Works,  Vol. II, p. 135.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 194 --- on 7th November, and that it was essential to strike before it had time to organize itself, on the evening of 6th November he wrote to the Central Committee of the Party:‘We must not wait!! We may lose everything!!. . .  under no circumstances must the power be left in the hands of Kerensky and Co. until the 25th [old style] -  not under any circumstances; the matter must be decided without fail this very evening.. . .  It would be a disaster, or a sheer fo