to be drawn into the con­flict by Russia (which in and of itself was but a local conflict between Austria and Serbia). . . .  If Sir Edward Grey had . . . 1  Intimate Papers of Colonel House  (1926), Vol. I, p. 249.*  Cited in Uncovering the Forces of War , Conrad K. Grieb (1947), p. 8.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 152 --- THE ROOTS OF ARMAGEDDON 149 simply declared to Russia and France (Germany need not  have heard a word of it) that England was uninterested in the  conflict  -  retaining entire freedom of action as regards what  might subsequently arise -  the European war would in that  case certainly not have broken out. But all this is of course on  the supposition that England had not already so bound herself  that retreat was no longer possible.’1Unfortunately, this is what had happened. Shrouded in secrecy, the Entente of 1904 had grown into an irrevocable secret military alliance, about which the British Parliament knew nothing.On 23rd July, an Austrian ultimatum was presented to Belgrade with a time limit of forty-eight hours. Sazonov declared it to be an unparalleled act of aggression and that the only way to avert war with Germany was to let her know that she would be confronted by the united forced of the Entente. Russia then ordered partial mobilization, and Germany urged that the question should be settled by Austria and Serbia alone.On 25th July Serbia replied to the Austrian ultimatum, and because the reply was incomplete Austria ordered full mobili­zation, and on the following day the German Chancellor sent for Sir Edward Goschen, the British Ambassador in Berlin, and told him that, if Great Britain remained neutral, in the event of a successful war against France, Germany would respect the integrity of France. This proposal was rejected by the British Government.On 31st July, the German Ambassador in St. Petersburg was instructed to present an ultimatum to the Russian Govern­ment to demand the cessation of mobilization within twelve hour