ce, which make it a free activity of the soul; and of the subordinate nature of a political instrument, by which it belongs purely to the reason.‘The first of these three phases concerns more the people; the second more the General and his Army; the third, more the Government’  (I, pp. 25-26).Further on, he writes:‘To conduct a whole War, or its great acts, which we call campaigns, to a successful termination, there must be an intimate knowledge of State policy in its higher relations. The conduct of a War and the policy of the State here coincide, and the General becomes at the same time the Statesman . . .  but he must not cease to be the General. He takes into view all the relations of the State on the one hand; on the other, he must know exactly what he can do with the means at his disposal. . . .  In this sense, Buonaparte was right when he said that many of the questions which come before a General for decision would make problems for a mathematical calculation not unworthy of the powers of Newton or Euler’  (I, pp. 68-69).Closely related with Clausewitz’s conception of grand strategy is his theory of the centre of gravity, that point in the enemy’s organism -  military, political, social, etc. -  at which, should he be defeated, or should he lose it, the whole structure of national power will collapse. It is one of the most important of Clausewitz’s theories, because it governs the grand strategical aim of a war.‘To distinguish these “centra gravitatis ” in the enemy’s military power’, he writes, ‘to discern their spheres of action  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 71 --- 68 THE CONDUCT OF WAR is . . .  a supreme act of strategic judgment’  (II, p. 355). And later, in volume III, he expands this as follows:‘Alexander had his centre of gravity in his Army, so had Gustavus Adolphus, Charles X II and Frederick the Great, and the career of any of one of them would soon have been brought to a close by the destruction of his fighting force: instates torn by in