otect Prussia against France, Austria and Russia. Simultaneously, Friedrich List (1789-1846), an economist of unique genius, pointed out that, from the position of a secondary military power, whose weakness lay in her central position between powerful potential enemies, Prussia could be raised by the  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 96 --- railway into a formidable one. ‘Germany could be made into a defensive bastion in the very heart of Europe. Speed of mobilization, the rapidity with which troops could be moved from the centre of the country to its periphery, and the other obvious advantages of “interior lines” of rail transport would be of greater relative advantage to Germany than to any other European country.’1  List himself wrote: ‘Every mile of railway which a neighbouring nation finishes sooner than we, each mile more of railway it possesses, gives it an advantage over us . . .  it is just as little left in our hands to determine whether we shall make use of the new defensive weapons given to us by the march of progress, as it was left to our forefathers to determine whether they should shoulder the rifle instead of the bow and arrow.’2In 1846, the year List died, the first extensive troop move­ments by rail was made by a Prussian army corps, 12,000 strong, with horses and guns to Cracow. This experimental move led to the Prussian General Staff making a comprehen­sive survey of the military value of railways. Next, during the revolutionary upheaval of 1848-1850, Prussia gained further experience in rail movements, and when, in 1849, Napoleon III intervened in the Italian War, the French made all possible use of railways. From then on the railway increasingly became the dominant factor in strategy, until the time came when it was possible to supply armies of millions of men in the field. It was George Stephenson more so than Napoleon or Clausewitz who was the father of the nation-in-arms.In 1836 -  twenty years before the conclusion of the period discu