ctual fighting. To the one international differences in peacetime are settled by argu­ment, to the other they are accentuated by it. While in democratic countries government is based on collectivism, the  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 322 --- THE PROBLEM OF PEACE 3 1 9 votes and opinions of the masses, Soviet government is based on individualism, the authority of one man or a small oligarchy. The consequence is that it is easy for the latter to be on a permanent war footing, in which leadership is paramount, policy but little influenced by public opinion, discipline rigid, and secrecy assured, while, other than in wartime, these things are almost impossible for the former; like a mob confronted by a force of disciplined soldiers, the Democracies recoil before Soviet power, and fear to exploit Soviet difficulties. They act as did the democratic Athenians when threatened by the autocratic Philip of Macedon.‘So you5 , thundered Demosthenes, ‘if you hear of Philip in the Chersonese, vote an expedition there, if at Thermopylae, you vote one there; if somewhere else, you keep pace with him to and fro. You take your marching orders from him; you have never formed any plan of campaign for yourselves, never foreseen any event, until you learn that something has happened or is happening. . . . Our business is not to specu­late on what the future may bring forth, but to be certain that it will bring disaster, unless you face the facts and consent to do your duty.’1As Kissinger so rightly says: ‘. . . . it is futile to seek to deal with a revolutionary power by “ordinary” diplomatic methods.’2  And the Democracies should be aware, as Clause­witz insisted, that the most decisive act of judgment a states­man can exercise ‘is rightly to understand . . . the war in which he engages.’  Because the age we are living in is one of per­manent emergency, this is equally applicable to peace. He should not, Clausewitz continues, ‘take it for something, or wish to make of it somethi