tercepted secret Japanese  messages2  that the proposals of 20th November were final, a  ten point memorandum was prepared by Cordell Hull, Secre­tary of State, and on 26th November it was handed to the  two Japanese ambassadors in Washington. Its purport was:  In exchange for a new trade agreement and the unfreezing  of each other’s credits, Japan was required to conclude a  mutual non-aggression treaty with Washington, Moscow, the  Netherlands, Chungking, and Bangkok; withdraw her forces  from China and French Indo-China, and undertake to support  no regime in China other than that of Chiang Kai-shek.It was accepted by the Japanese Government as an ulti­matum, and on 7th December the answer was the surprise  attacks on Cold Harbor, Malaya, Thailand and Hongkong. Thus  war was extended from a European conflict into one of world­wide dimensions. Of his reception of the news Churchill writes:  ‘So we had won after a ll.. . .  Hitler’s fate was sealed.  Mussolini’s fate was sealed. As for the Japanese, they would  be ground to powder.. . .  Being saturated and satiated with  emotion and sensation, I went to bed and slept the sleep of  the saved and thankful.’3Because the United States was the greatest industrial power  in the world, from the moment she entered the war she became  potentially -  and soon actually-the dominant belligerent.  Unfortunately for the world, because her leaders lacked historic  sense and looked upon the war as a lethal game rather than an  instrument of policy, battles began to lose their political value.  So much was this so that, during the latter half of the war,  their results were as often as not neutralized by political  decisions. Thus it came about that conferences were far more  decisive than the battles fought. 1  U.S. Congress, Hearings before the Joint Committee on the Pearl  Harbor Attack  (1946), Pt. II, p. 5488.*  The Japanese code had been broken by the U.S. Army & Navy  Intelligence, and throughout the negotiations all messag