ever  used. See Appendix to the writer’s The Second World War  (1948)  pp. 413-5.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 5 5  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 259 --- 25(5 THE CONDUCT OF WAR tion to the theory lay in his realization that the enemy’s com­mand could be as fully paralysed by a sudden and swift blow which shattered his front. In brief, his conception was based on what Captain B. H. Liddell H art calls ‘the indirect ap­proach’  instead of a direct one -  the aim remained constant, the method varied.When, in February 1940, a conference, presided over by Hitler, was assembled to discuss the forthcoming invasion of France, after the army group and the army commanders had spoken, Guderian, who commanded the X IX  Armoured Corps, strongly backed by General Manstein, explained to Hitler how he intended to advance his corps to the Meuse by the fourth day, and cross the river on the fifth day. Hitler then asked him: ‘And then what are you going to do?’  and Guderian com­ments: ‘He was the first person who had thought to ask me this vital question.’  His reply was:‘Unless I receive orders to the contrary, I intend on the next day to continue my advance westwards. The supreme leadership must decide whether my objective is to be Amiens or Paris. In my opinion the correct course is to drive past Amiens to the English Channel. Hitler nodded and said nothing more. Only General Busch, who commanded the Sixteenth Army on my left, cried out: “Well, I don’t think you’ll cross the river in the first place!” Hitler, the tension visible in his face, looked at me to see what I would reply. I said: “There’s no need for you to do so, in any case.’  ‘Hitler made no com­ment.’1The English Channel as Guderian’s next objective! -  as the crow flies, 160 miles west of the Meuse at Sedan. No wonder General Busch was astonished, because no conventional general would have placed it more than a dozen miles west of that river. So distant an objective discloses the secret of Guderian’s Blitzkr