he connexion between Bolshevism and Christianity.  This was Mr Lunacharski, the first Soviet Minister of Educa­tion who, in the hey-day of the Revolution, gave out the  memorable saying: “Christ, if He would ever come back to  earth, would immediately join the Communist party”.’1  This suggests that Christians should do so, which discloses  yet another relationship between the two religions. Both are  proselytizing creeds, and both hold that the war of the word is  more potent than the war of the sword. Therefore, since  Western statesmen and politicians are so ignorant of the tech­nique of Marxian warfare, it bears repetition to point out that  to Marxists peace is an instrument of subversion -  that is, of  conquest -  as well as a breathing space in which to prepare for  war. Should peace be concluded between a Communist and a  Capitalist power, it is not in order to end hostilities, but instead  to shift them from the battlefield of armies to the battlefield  of classes. Peace is, therefore, no more than a manoeuvre in an  unbroken struggle, and should it concede anything to the  non-proletarian classes, it is in order to disintegrate them.When he gained power, Lenin’s first decree, or declaration,  was an appeal for immediate peace negotiations. Not made,  as we have seen, to bring the war to an end, but to transform  it into a series of revolutionary civil wars -  that is, internecine  instead of international struggles -  in which the newborn  Bolshevik State could gain a breathing spell. Or, as Taracouzio  writes: ‘Pragmatically to the Marxist, peace must be a pro­visional status quo  in which the class war between the pro­letariat and capitalism must go on, while to the Soviet Union,  it must connote outward international tranquillity.’2After the Peace of Riga, in March 1921, and until the signing 1  Op. cit., p. 64.*  Op. cit., p. 58.SOVIET REVOLUTIONARY WARFARE 2 1 3  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 217 --- 214 THE CONDUCT OF WAR of the Soviet-Germa