enied ‘that 1,000 tons of explosive, incendiary, and poison-gas bombs dropped on Paris or London could destroy these cities’  (p. 150).‘A complete breakdown of the social structure’, he writes, ‘cannot but take place in a country subjected to this kind of merciless pounding from the air. The time would soon come when, to put an end to the horror and suffering, the peoples themselves, driven by the instinct of self-preservation, would rise up and demand an end to the war -  this before their army and navy had time to mobilize at all!’  (p. 52). His conclusion is, that ‘. .. the nation which, once it has conquered the air, can maintain in operation, not 100, but 50 or even 20 such planes [of 6,000 horse-power], will have won decisively, because 1  Aircraft detached to co-operate with the army etc.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 245 --- 2 4 2 THE CONDUCT OF WAR it will be in a position to break up the whole social structure of the enemy in less than a week, no matter what his army and  navy may do ’  (p. 118).In his opinion, 'aerial war will be short’  (p. 160). 'Mercifully, the decision will be quick . .. since the decisive blows will be directed at civilians, that element of the countries at war least able to sustain them’  (p. 54).Of the future of land warfare, he takes no notice whatsoever  of motorization; ‘it will take on’, he writes, ‘a static character  very similar to that of the World W ar. . .  continuous fronts  will be set up in the future war as in the World W ar.. . .  All  theories and concepts of a war of movement will fail against  these continuous fronts’  (pp. 142-143). This went far to re­inforce his argument that air power alone could win a war.The exponents of the future role of the tank were almost entirely restricted to the members of the General Staffs of the French and British Tank Corps; but whereas the former adhered to close co-operation between tanks and infantry -  as illustrated in the Cambrai tactics -  from the earliest days t