rd and below the entrance of the breech. And two years later the British adopted the .303 calibre Lee-Metford with a box magazine of  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 138 --- THE ROOTS OF ARMAGEDDON 135 eight cartridges, later increased to ten. By 1900 all armies had magazine rifles approximately of equal efficiency, and of calibres varying from .315 to .256; all were bolt operated, fired smokeless powder, and were sighted to 2,000 yards or metres.Simultaneously with the development of the magazine rifle proceeded the development of the machine gun -  another very old idea. Many types were experimented with and some adopted, such as the improved Gatling,1  Nordenfeldt (1873), Hotchkiss (1875), Gardner (1876), Browning (1889) and Colt (1895). The crucial year in their development was 1884, when Hiram S. Maxim patented a one barrel gun which loaded and fired itself by the force of its recoil. The original model weighed 40 lb., was water cooled and belt fed, and 2,000 rounds could be fired from it in three minutes. It was adopted by the British army in 1889, and was destined to revolutionize infantry tactics.The introduction of quick-firing artillery arose out of pro足posals made in 1891 by General Wille in Germany and Colonel Langlois in France. They held that increased rate of fire was impossible unless recoil on firing was absorbed. This led to much experimental work on shock absorption, and to the eventual introduction of a non-recoiling carriage, which per足mitted of a bullet-proof shield being attached to it to protect the gun crew. Until this improvement in artillery was intro足duced, the magazine rifle had been the dominant weapon, now it was challenged by the quick-firing gun, which not only outranged it and could be fired with almost equal rapidity, but could be rendered invisible by indirect laying.The increasing growth in the size of armies raised the prob足lem of their supply, and the first attempt to solve it was centred in the traction engine. Already i