hat, during the German advance, broadcasts  in French were sent out in a continuous stream by the German Director  of Radio. They caused panic and confusion among the French civil  population, and led to roads being blocked by streams of refugees, which  made troop movements behind the broken French front almost impos­sible. (Cited from the Schelkriberg Memoirs  by Desmond Flower and  James Reeves in The War  (1960), p. 74.)*  The Second World War,  Vol. II, pp. 38-39.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 5 9  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 263 --- 260 THE CONDUCT OF WAR briefly explained the situation, Churchill asked him: ‘Where  is the strategic reserve. . .  ?  ‘ou est la masse de manoeuvre?  General Gamelin turned to me and, with a shake of the headand a shrug, said: “ Auewie ” Outside in the garden of theQuai d’Orsay clouds of smoke arose from large bonfires, and  I saw from the window venerable officials pushing wheel­barrows of archives on to them. Already therefore the evacu­ation of Paris was being prepared.’1Another account of this panic-stricken day is given by Paul  Baudouin, Secretary of the French Cabinet.‘Crowned like a volcano by the smoke of his cigars’, he  writes, Churchill ‘told his French colleague [Reynaud] that  even if France was invaded and vanquished England would  go on fighting.. . .  Until one in the morning he conjured up an  apocalyptic vision of the war. He saw himself in the heart of  Canada directing, over an England razed to the ground . . .  and over a France whose ruins were already cold, the air war  of the New World against the Old dominated by Germany.’2Although in England, the masses of the people, secure behind  their sea wall, were not greatly perturbed by the German  advance, the Government lost its head, and the country was  thrown into confusion by a host of ill-considered panic  measures. Crazy obstructions were erected across the roads;  signposts were uprooted, and the names of railway stations,  inns, villages and to