ed up enough collective intelligence and good will to make something of it.’  Neverthe­less, in the final reckoning, it was not Wilson, nor Clemenceau, 1  Ibid., p. 155.*  A  Revision of the Treaty , John Maynard Keynes (1922), p. 180.8  The Twenty Years of Crisis  (1940), p. 294.4  By the terms of the Treaty of Trianon, Hungary was deprived of  71 per cent, of her territory, and 3,000,000 ethnic Hungarians were  incorporated in Czechoslovakia, Rumania and Yugoslavia. By those of  St. Germain, Austria was reduced to some two-thirds of her German­speaking territory, was prohibited to unite with Germany, and 3,500,000  of her German subjects were assigned to Czechoslovakia, and 230,000  to Italy.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 228 --- THE TWENTY YEARS ARMISTICE 2 2 5 nor Lloyd George who compounded the betrayal, it was, as  Colonel Nickerson points out, hysterical and irresponsible  mass democracy, which came into full bloom during the war.  ‘Without democracy’, he writes, ‘although a certain amount  of war will always be inevitable, nevertheless its ferocity and  destruction might be kept within bounds by setting up govern­ment independent of election and therefore not compelled  alternately to rouse popular passion and to cringe before it.’1  Obscured even from the would-be destroyers of democracy,  from now on ‘independence of election’  became a hidden  tendency in the Weltanschauung  which emanated from out the  war. Blindly human events began to swing toward a new  political lodestar which, although invisible, would seem to be  guiding the world bark of mutinous nations toward a new  international order, whether better or worse was impossible  to say. 2 • Adolf Hitler During the war, the Allied nations had been told that it was  being fought to make the world safe for democracy; but when  it was won they found that the opposite was true. Instead of  being safe, democracy was left so rickety that one dictator  after the other emerged from out of the chaos