century, it was pre­ceded by years of violent propaganda, which long before the war had obliterated all sense of moderation, and had awakened in the contending parties the primitive spirit of tribal fanaticism.1Thus it came about, as Vattel had held, that ‘If you once open a door for continual accusations of outrageous excess . . . the sword will never be sheathed till one of the parties is utterly destroyed.’2From the standpoint of American Constitutional Law, Lincoln was none other than a dictator, and this he showed himself to be immediately the war opened, for without the sanction of Congress he proclaimed a blockade of the Southern ports, and simultaneously ordered the enrolment of 75,000 volunteers: also, on his own authority, he suspended the writ of habeas corpus  in parts of Maryland. People suspected of disloyalty were imprisoned without trial; ‘A loyal mayor of Baltimore, suspected of Southern sympathies, was arrested and confined in a fortress for over a year’, and a Maryland judge ‘who had charged a grand jury to inquire into illegal acts of government officials was set upon by soldiers when his court was in session, beaten and dragged bleeding from his bench, and imprisoned for six months.’  These are exam- 1  This is noted by N. Stephenson in his Lincoln . He writes that a new  temper had formed throughout the land: ‘a blend of all elements of  violent feeling which war inevitably releases . . . the resurrection of that  primitive bloodlust which lies dormant in every peaceful nation like a  sleeping beast.’ (Cited in The Growth of the American Republic , Samuel  Eliot Morison and Henry Steel Commager (1942), Vol. I, p. 673.2  See supra  Chapter I, p. 18.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 103 --- 100 THE CONDUCT OF WAR pies of dictatorial acts cited by Morison and Commager.1In the Confederacy, President Davis was, all but in name, also a dictator, and as arbitrary as Lincoln; but while Lincoln was very human and magnanimous, Davis was starched an