mour on the battlefield, as mooted by Jomini nearly a century earlier, could solve the stalemate, and the decisive battle of Amiens, fought on 8th August 1918, proved this conclusively.In it 462 fighting tanks, in co-operation with aircraft, led three corps of the British Fourth Army, under command of General Sir Henry Rawlinson, into battle.1  Again surprise was complete, panic rampant, and the German front was penetrated.‘As the sun set on 8th August on the battlefield’, writes the author of the German official monograph on the battle, ‘the greatest defeat which the German Army suffered since the beginning of the war was an accomplished fact.’2  It was the terror the tanks instilled, more so than their killing power, which led him to entitle his monograph Die Katastrophe des  8 August, 1918.  It precipitated, not the final retirement after a ding-dong battle, but an initial rout without fighting -  this was the unexpected novelty. Without the tank there would have been no surprise commensurate with the one achieved, and it was the suddenness of the assault which detonated the panic. Added to this, the feeling of utter powerlessness of the soldier on foot, when faced with an antagonist no rifle or machine gun bullet could halt, instinctively led him to exag­gerate the danger in order to mitigate the ignominy of im­mediate surrender or flight -  the tank was a psychological, more so than a material weapon.Ludendorff made no mistake over the situation the tank created. ‘Everything I had feared, and of which I had so often given warning’, he writes, ‘had here, in one place, become a 1  On his right flank he was supported by the French First Army,  which had no tanks.1  Cited in the British Official History , 1918,  Vol. IV, p. 88.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 180 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 1 7 7 reality. . . . The 8th of August put the decline of [our] fighting power beyond all doubt. . . .  I became convinced that we were now without that safe foundatio