ritical a position that it should at once have withdrawn; but Hitler forbade it, and Paulus was not man enough to disobey him. The result was that his army was surrounded, and on 2nd February 1943, its remnants capitulated. The initiative then passed to the Russians, and was never again wrested from them.Because of their failure to look upon war as a political instrument, the significance of Stalingrad was missed by the Western Powers. One man, however, saw it clearly, and he was General Franco. He held that two separate wars were in progress; one in the east against Communism and the other in the west against Hitlerism, and to win the latter and lose the former would be political folly. To convince him that the two wars were one, on 19th February 1943, Sir Samuel Hoare, British Ambassador in Spain, entered into correspondence with Count Jordana, the Spanish Foreign Minister. He pointed out to him that, on 6th November 1942, Stalin had declared: ‘That it was not the future policy of Russia to interfere in the inter­national affairs of other countries’, and that therefore the final victory would be an Allied one. To this, Jordana replied:‘If events develop in the future as they have done up to  now, it would be Russia which will penetrate deeply into  German territory. And we ask the question: if this should  occur, which is the greater danger not only for the continent  but for England herself, a Germany not totally defeated and  with sufficient strength to serve as a rampart against Com­munism . . .  or a Sovietized Germany which would certainly  furnish Russia with the added strength of her war prepara­tions . . .  which would enable Russia to extend herself with an  empire without precedent from the Atlantic to the Pacific. . .  ?‘And we ask a second question: is there anybody in the  centre of Europe, in that mosaic of countries without con­sistency or unity, bled moreover by war and foreign domina­tion, who could contain the ambitions of Stalin? There is  certa