e to ask Congress to declare war they might argue about it for three months”.’4  Further, he promised Churchill that ‘the United States, even if not herself attacked, would come into the war in the Far East and thus make final victory sure.’5  Also he promised that on his return to Washington he would send a strongly worded note to the Japanese ambassador accredited to the White House. This he did on 17th August.In addition to these secret commitments, on the President’s  suggestion, a joint declaration setting forth ‘certain common 1  Ibid., Vol. I, p. 127.*  As late as 1943 Roosevelt remarked to the Polish Ambassador,  Ciechanowski: ‘Harry gets on like a house afire with S talin -in  fact,  they seem to have become buddies’ (Defeat in Victory , Jan Ciechanowski  (English edition, 1948), p. 244.8  The Strange Alliance  (1947), p. 90.4  Churchill, The Second World War , Vol. Ill, p. 528. In a letter to  General Smuts, dated 9th November 1941.8  Parliamentary Debates , 5th Series, Vol. 377, col. 007.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 274 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 71 principles’  in the national policies of the United States and United Kingdom was drafted by Churchill, amended, and issued under the title of ‘The Atlantic Charter’.1  It was a highly idealistic document, and had it been adhered to, it would have been impossible to implement. Nevertheless, until it was scrapped at the Teheran Conference in November 1943, it was first-class propaganda.From then on negotiations were shuttled between Tokyo and Washington, each side playing for time. On 5th November Churchill wrote to Roosevelt: ‘The Japanese have as yet taken no final decision, and the Emperor appears to be exercising restraint. When we talked about this at Placentia you spoke of gaining time, and this policy has been brilliantly successful so far. But our joint embargo is steadily forcing the Japanese to decisions for peace or war.’2  A fortnight later the Japanese Government made up its mind,