Soviet-German Pact of 23rd August 1939 was first an­nulled, and that all Polish prisoners and deported Poles in Russian hands were released.Thirdly, he should have realized that there could be neither  moral nor political advantage in substituting Stalin for Hitler,  and were this to happen, not only would the war be politically  lost, but the balance of power in Europe would pass into  Soviet hands.His partner in this negation of statesmanship was the  American President. 1  The Second World War , Vol. IV, p. 300.2  See Ritter, p. 212.8  See infra  Section 7.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 270 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 267 5 'President Roosevelt's anti-Japanese and  pro-Russian Policies On 18th October 1939, an American historian, who for long had contemplated the ways of the world, noted in his war diary:‘So far as England is concerned, the war is not now a naval  affair! So far as France is concerned, it is not now a military  affair! It has become a war of systems. It is Stalinism versus  Europeanism, and the sooner the directors of the war forces  of the Western Allies realize it, the better it will be for them.  There is now taking place in Europe something that is more  sinister than war.’1This remarkable prevision, that the war so recently un­leashed transcended the physical struggle and was a contest  between two antagonistic cultures, the free Western way of  life and Asiatic despotism, was unseen by Mr Churchill and  President Roosevelt. But while in the last lap of the war, when  it was no longer possible for him to change the course he had  steered, the former became aware of it, the latter never did:  this was the tragedy of Europe. What manner of man was the  American President?Robert E. Sherwood, one of his close collaborators and the  writer of many of his speeches, depicts him as follows:‘Frances Perkins has written of Roosevelt that he was “the  most complicated human being I ever knew”. Henry Morgen-  thau, Jr., has written: “Roosev