f the three main belligerents of 1939.As a tactical theorist, Hitler was as clairvoyant as he was astute as a politician. He had watched the last war closely and had absorbed its tactical lessons -  a remarkable thing for a corporal to do. But what was more remarkable, he projected them into the future and built his military power on them. In 1939, the superiority of the German Army over all other armies did not lie in numerical superiority, nor in superiority of arms and equipment, but in its tactics, which, if not devised by Hitler himself, were forced by him upon his reluctant General Staff.In Mein Kam pf he  had written that in the next war motori­zation ‘will make its appearance in an overwhelming and decisive form’ (p. 537). He had a passion for high-speed motor  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 248 --- cars, express motorways ( Reichsautobahnen)  and aircraft; there­fore warfare based on high mobility and striking power  appealed to him. Both the German Air Force (Luftwaffe)  and  Army were organized to develop speed; but the task of the  former was not to win a war single-handed, as Douhet insisted,  but primarily to co-operate with the Army. Its bombers were  to prepare the advance of the ground forces; and its dive  bombers were to act as flying field artillery and cover the  assault of the cutting-edge of the army -  its armoured divi­sions. Only secondarily was the Luftwaffe  to operate as an  independent air force.Force alone was not accepted by Hitler as the sole effective  means. To Hermann Rauschning he said: ‘I have learnt from  the Bolsheviks.. . .  One always learns most from one’s  enemies.’  Further:‘The place of artillery preparation for frontal attack by the  infantry in trench warfare will in future be taken by revo­lutionary propaganda, to break down the enemy psycho­logically before the armies begin to function at a ll.. . .  How  to achieve the moral break-down of the enemy before the war  has started -  that is the problem that inter