thrown into confusion by a host of ill-considered panic  measures. Crazy obstructions were erected across the roads;  signposts were uprooted, and the names of railway stations,  inns, villages and towns were obliterated. Further, on 18th  May, Churchill instructed his Chief of Staff that ‘Actions  should . . .  be taken against Communists and Fascists, and  very considerable numbers should be put in protective. . .  internment.’3  This led to wholesale arrests; hundreds of people,  whose sole ‘crime’  was that they considered the war a blunder,4 1  Ibid., Vol. II, pp. 41-42.2  The Private Diaries of Paul Baudouin  (English edition, 1948), p. 33.8  The Second World War , Vol. II, p. 49.4  Mr P. C. Loftus told the House of Commons of one man who was  arrested because he was a member of Sir Oswald Mosley’s British Union  of Fascists. His story was: ‘He happened to own a motor-boat and was  on the Thames at the time of Dunkirk when the wireless appeal came  over. He volunteered to go, and rescued about 450 men, his motor-boat  being fairly well plastered with machine-gun bullets. On his return to  England he was arrested.’ ( Parliamentary Debates , 5th Series, Vol. 373,  col 983.)  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 264 --- were held in custody without charge or trial, and in conditions  which can only be described as barbarous. One internee, a  German-Jew refugee, who previously had been interned at  Dachau, stated that conditions were so much worse at the  Ascot Concentration Camp than in Germany, he would rather  spend six months in Dachau than one at Ascot.1On 13th June, four days before Marshal Petain announced that France had asked for an armistice, Churchill despatched a ‘message of good cheer’  to the French Government, in which he proposed a fraternal and indissoluble union of the peoples of the British and French Empires.2  Three weeks later he instructed Admiral Sir James Somerville to sink the French warships at Oran and Mers-el-Kebir.3  With this ‘mourn