nin declared: ‘. .. in the twentieth century, as throughout civilization in general, rests not merely upon fists and clubs, but upon the arm y’2  And, as already noted, the Red Army was organized and trained, not only to protect the U.S.S.R., but as a revolutionary gendarmerie -  a police force standing on its head, because its aim was to foment revolts instead of suppressing them.It was not armaments and numbers of armed men which secured victory for the Soviets between 1918 and 1922. Instead, as Lenin said:‘We were able to survive and to defeat the powerful coalition of the Entente Powers which was supported by White armies only because there was no unity among these Powers. Up to this time we have been victorious not only because of the serious conflicts among these imperialist powers but precisely because these conflicts were not incidental domestic disagree­ments but deeply rooted fundamental economic struggles of the imperialist powers among themselves.’3All Soviet peace proposals are aimed at creating or accentu- 1  Ibid., p. 268. *  Ibid., p. 270. 8  Ibid., p. 137.SOVIET REVOLUTIONARY WARFARE 2 1 5  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 219 --- 216 THE CONDUCT OF WAR ating confusion in the enemy’s ranks. On the face of it ‘peaceful  coexistence’  seems to be eminently pacific; but in the Soviet  jargon it means living alongside a leaky carboy of acid, and  assures progressive corrosion.1  One and all, these peace pro­posals are apples of discord, which within and between  nations give rise to dissensions and lack of unity. Divide et  impera  is as formidable a weapon in Soviet peace policy as it  was in the days cf the Romans. 1  When accepted at their dictionary meaning, the words ‘peaceful  coexistence’ are the exact opposite of what Marx meant by ‘the class  struggle.’ Time and again this should have been pointed out to the  Soviet ‘double-talkers’.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 220 --- CHAPTER X II The Twenty Years Armistice * 1 •  The Carthagin