ew era had begun, the era of national wars, of wars which were to assume a maddening pace (aux allures  dechainees);  for those wars were destined to throw into the fight all the resources of the nation; they were to set them­selves the goal, not a dynastic interest, not of the conquest or possession of a province, but the defence or the propagation of philosophical ideas in the first place, next of the principles of independence, of unity, of immaterial advantages of various kinds. Lastly they staked upon the issue the interests and fortune of every individual private. Hence the rising of passions, that is elements of force, hitherto in the main unused.’1To stimulate the thousands of recruits who poured into the 1  The Principles of War,  pp. 29-30. Foch does not give the source of  his Clausewitz quotation; as it is not to be found in his On War,  it must  belong to another of his books.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 38 --- THE REBIRTH OF UNLIMITED WAR 35 dep6ts, reliance was placed on what today is called ‘propa­ganda’. For the first time, on 25th April 1792, Rouget de Lisle’s ‘Marseillaise’, the most soul-stirring of all war hymns, was sung in France, to intoxicate the multitudes. No step was left untaken by the demagogues to excite the pugnacity of the soldiers and foster hatred of their enemies. ‘Without hate’, writes George Sylvester Viereck, ‘there can be no propaganda. Give me something to hate, and I guarantee to organize a powerful propaganda campaign anywhere within twenty-four hours.’1  Hate governed France, hence warfare became inter­minable.Propaganda unleashed the beast in man, and was called by a French Royalist, Mallet du Pan, a ‘hellish tactic,. . .  worthy of the monsters who had invented i t . . .  fifty thousand savage beasts, foaming at the mouth with rage and yelling like canni­bals, hurl themselves at top speed upon soldiers whose courage has been excited by no passion.’2Conscription changed the basis of warfare. Hitherto soldiers h