ror knew that the Prussian 1  Cited in The Transformations of War,  Commandant J. Colin (1912),  p. 33.s Cited by Lieutenant-General von Caemmerer in Developments of  Strategical Science during the 19th Century  (English edition, 1905), p. 214.*  The Franco-German War of 1870-71,  Field Marshal von Moltke  (English edition, 1891), pp. 10-11.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 122 --- army would outnumber his own, he decided on an attaque  brusquee  before mobilization was completed -  few decisions could have been more disastrous. Fixed in his mind was the idea that a sudden attack eastward over the Rhine would force the South German States to desert Prussia, and would bring Austria and possibly also Italy to his support. Once he had forced neutrality upon the South Germans, his intention was to link up with Austria, and by way of Jena march on Berlin!Even had this fantastic plan been in any way practicable, for success it demanded the most rapid mobilization, the most careful preparations, and the most exact timings; yet nothing was prepared, nothing was thought out. This was due to the unbelievable inefficiency of the French General Staff, a collec­tion of young ‘bloods’  out of touch with the army, and elderly clerks overwhelmed with the minutiae of routine. So profoundly did Marshal Bazaine distrust his General Staff that he forbade its officers to appear on the battlefield, and instead of them he relied on his personal staff, as Napoleon I had done sixty years before. This inefficiency was inexcusable, because in February 1868, Baron Stoffel, the French military attache in Berlin, had reported:‘But of all the elements of superiority which Prussia, in case war broke out, would possess, the greatest and most undeni­able will be that she will obtain from the composition of her corps of staff officers . . . ours cannot be compared with it. . . . The composition of the Prussian staff will, in the next war, constitute the most formidable element of superiority in