our friends in every country.’8  If so, then ‘unconditional surrender’would discourage the break-up of Germany and dispirit the anti- Hitler Opposition, and, in consequence, prolong the war.According to Elliott Roosevelt, the President’s son, his  father first used the phrase ‘unconditional surrender’  at a  luncheon attended by the President, Churchill, Hopkins and  himself, and Churchill pronounced it to be ‘Perfect! I can just  see how Goebbels and the rest of ’em’ll squeal!’  Further,  Elliott writes that his father commented: ‘Of course it’s just  the thing for the Russians. They couldn’t want anything 1  Ambassador on Special Mission , Rt. Hon. Sir Samuel. Hoare (1946),  pp. 184-5. At the Adana Conference, 30th January 1943, the Turkish  Prime Minister had told Mr Churchill much the same, namely: ‘AH the  defeated countries would become Bolshevik and Slav if Germany was  beaten’ (The Second World War , Vol. IV, p. 635).*  The Second World War , Vol. IV, p. 620.*  Ibid., Vol. IV, p. 613. In the final draft of the Declaration Italy was  included.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 277  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 281 --- 2 7 8 THE CONDUCT OF WAR better. Unconditional surrender! Uncle Joe might have made  it up himself.’1The President’s version differs widely; he says the words  just ‘popped into my mind’,2  and Churchill’s is more than  vague.3  Actually, there was nothing new in the term; it is no  more than a paraphrase of Churchill’s ‘Victory at all costs!’  And as far as the President is concerned, he might have acted  more wisely, had he remembered that, in a Fireside Chat on  29th December 1940, he had said: ‘A nation can have peace  with the Nazis only at the price of total surrender.. . .  Such a  dictated peace would be no peace at all. It would be only  another armistice, leading to the most gigantic armament race  and the most devastating trade war in history.’4  Nevertheless,  he adopted this hypothetical Nazi policy, and, as we shall see,  its res