many that had characterized the Roosevelt period was during the Truman sequel to be carried into the peace in order to propitiate public opinion, and with no regard to the future. Militarism, not statesmanship, was to continue to govern American policy. 1  He calls it the ‘Iron Curtain* telegram, and states that ‘Of all the  public documents I have written on this issue I would rather be judged  by this’  (Ibid., Vol. VI, pp. 498-9).*  The World Crisis , 1915  (1928), pp. 17-18.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 308 --- How different from Bismarck in 1870. When in September that year the National Zeitung  complained of the considerate treatment accorded to the captive French Emperor, he had said:‘Popular feeling, public opinion, always takes that line. People insist that, in conflicts between States, the conqueror should sit in judgment upon the conquered, moral code in hand, and inflict punishment upon him for what he has done. . . . This is an altogether unreasonable demand. Punishment and revenge have nothing to do with policy. Policy must not meddle with the calling of Nemesis, or aspire to exercise the judge’s office.. . .  In such a case as the one referred to, the question would be, “Which of the two will be the most useful to us -  a badly-used Napoleon or a well-used Napoleon?” It is by no means impossible that he may one day rise to the surface again.’1Unconditional surrender was not enough; German economy was to be utterly destroyed, and much of the Morgenthau Plan carried into the peace. But how peace and prosperity in Europe could be built around a devastated centre where hunger, disease, and anarchy were to reign would seem never to have entered Truman’s head.Before the war ended, two measures were taken to effect this. The first was the ‘Level of Industry Plan’  and the second the ‘Occupation Directive’. Both are far too long to quote from in detail, but the following items will make their intentions clear:‘Level of Industry Plan’: Its aim was to