outh for the benefit of the North. So violent became the dispute over tariffs that, in 1832, South Carolina declared the Tariff Act of 1824 -  known as the ‘Tariff of Abominations’  -  null and void. At length a compromise was agreed, and the first phase in the struggle for State rights terminated.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 100 --- While this struggle was under way, a more intractable cause of dissension took root. In 1803, the immense region of Louisiana was purchased from France, and in 1819 Florida was purchased from Spain. These regions doubled the size of the United States, and when, in 1822, Mexico broke away from Spain, friction between her and the States led to the Texan War in 1836 and the Mexican War in 1846. These wars added to the United States territories as extensive as Louisiana -  namely, the State of Texas, and the future States of New Mexico, Arizona, California, Nevada, Utah and part of ColoradoThese vast acquisitions of land, which bordered the South­ern States, gave rise to the next bone of contention: Were the new territories eventually to become free or slave states? If the former, the North would dominate the Union; if the latter, then it would be the South. Not only did the Southern planters insist on the extension of slavery, but they urged that the federal law of 1807, which prohibited traffic in slaves, be repealed. For the North this was an impossible demand; not only might it lead to war with England,1  but of a certainty it would render the democracy of the North contemptible in the eyes of the world.It was not the existence of slavery in the Southern States which antagonized the North, it was its extension to the new regions; therefore, as long as their future status re­mained undecided, the quarrel continued, and it was approach­ing its climax when, in 1858, during the presidency of James Buchanan (1857-1861), a comparatively unknown man, Abraham Lincoln (1809-1865), appeared on the scene. In his contest for the senatori