fifty-eight inches in thickness. This mon­strous vessel clearly showed that a more suitable system of propulsion and a less clumsy means of protection were needed. In 1836 the first was met by John Ericsson’s successful appli­cation of the screw propeller, and the second by substituting iron for wood.Strangely enough, the British Admiralty was opposed to the introduction of steamships, and when the Colonial Office asked the First Lord for a steam packet to convey mails from Malta to the Ionian Islands, the following reply was received: ‘Their Lordships felt it their bounden duty to discourage, to the utmost of their ability, the employment of steam vessels, as they considered that the introduction of steam was calculated to strike a fatal blow at the naval supremacy of the Empire.’Thus it came about that, when Great Britain became in­volved in the Crimean War, except for a few warships fitted with auxiliary engines, and a number of steam tugs, her entire fleet consisted of wooden sailing ships. What is so astonishing is that since 1822 the introduction of the shell gun had ren­dered the wooden ship so vulnerable as to deprive her of all fighting value. This was demonstrated at the battle of Sinope in November 1853, when a squadron of Turkish frigates was almost blown out of the water by the shell fire of the Russian 1  See The Tanks , Captain B. H. Liddell Hart (1959), Vol. I, p. 13.2  Cited in the Journal of the Royal United Service Institution  (1931),  Vol. LXXV, No. 502, p. 258.INFLUENCES OF THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 91  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 95 --- 92 THE CONDUCT OF WAR ships. The outcome was that Napoleon III at once ordered the construction of a flotilla of floating batteries protected by armour able to resist both solid shot and explosive shell. Their success was complete, and not only was the need to armour ships proved beyond doubt, but also that the introduction of armour would necessitate the introduction of more powerful ordnance. This l