e given formidable power by Harry Hopkins and others in the President’s confidence.’ Another dupe was General George C. Marshall, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army, an honest and simple man who, Wedemeyer says: ‘became an easy prey to crypto-Communists, or Communist-sympathizing sycophants, who played on his vanity.’1  Thus it came about that Stalin and his henchmen ‘were all along well informed of American atti­tudes and intentions by Communist stooges in Washington . . .  some government bureaus2  were infiltrated both by Communist sympathizers and Soviet agents and . . .  U.S. policies, plans, and official attitudes were not only influenced by these infil­trators but also promptly reported back to Moscow.’3This does not seem in any way to have perturbed the Presi­dent, because, as Sherwood writes: ‘The Roosevelt doctrine was that if we were to get into the war we should fight it as far from our own shores as possible and with the greatest number of allies, regardless of ideology.’4  This may account for General Wedemeyer’s remark that, when as late as March 1945, he informed Roosevelt that he felt certain the Communists would cause trouble in China as soon as the war was ended, ‘He did not seem to understand what I was talking about.’5All his hatred was focused on Hitler. ‘So far as he was  concerned’, said Hopkins, ‘there is absolutely nothing impor­tant in the world but to beat Hitler.’6But it was not until the collapse of France that the Presi­dent became convinced that, were Britain to meet with disaster, Hitler would attack the Western Hemisphere, and 1  Wedemeyer Reports!  (1958), p. 370.1  ‘They held influential positions in the White House, the State  Department, the Treasury Department, the War Department, the  Office of Strategic Services, the War Production Board, the Board of  Economic Warfare, the Office of Price Administration, the Office of War  Information, and many other government agencies.’  ( The Twenty- Year  Revolution from Roosevelt to Eisenh