nt Government in France, and although the Communists were not formal members of it, they attained great strength and influence. This, coupled with the Franco-Soviet treaty, split the continent into two ideological camps when on 17th July civil war broke out in Spain. Russia intervened on the part of the Republicans, largely composed of Communists and Anar­chists, and Germany and Italy intervened on the part of the Nationalists under General Francisco Franco; while the Blum Government assisted the Republicans with arms, and British popular opinion sided with them. In October, Germany and Italy signed a pact which laid the foundation of the Berlin- Rome Axis, and, on 25th November, an Anti-Comintern Pact was concluded between Germany and Japan.While these events were distracting Europe, Great Britain  sank deeper and deeper into the slough of pacifism. By the  spring of 1935 she was so embogged that in the notorious  Peace Ballot, fostered by the League of Nations Union,11,000,000 people proclaimed their unswerving faith in the  League as an instrument of peace. On all questions of defence,  this completely shackled the government.’1Besides Hitler’s steady evasion of the Versailles treaty, in  order to make Germany independent of international loan-  capitalism, he resorted to a system of finance which antagon­ized the great trading nations, particularly the United States  and Great Britain, who between them represented the Money  Power of the world. In Mein Kampf  he recognizes two forms  of capitalism, the one based on the product of creative labour,  and the other on usury (p. 180). Of the latter he wrote:.. that international stock-exchange capital was not only  the chief instigating factor in bringing on the War but now  when war is over it turns the peace into a hell. The struggle 1  Although many supporters of the League believed that collective  security should be backed by force of arms, the vast bulk of the electorate  did not. This is borne out by Mr Stanle