The World Crisis 1915 , Winston S. Churchill (1923), p. 20; and  War Memoirs of David Lloyd George  (1933), Vol. I, pp. 356 and 360.  Churchill exclaimed: ‘Confronted with this deadlock, military art  remained dumb.’ And Lloyd George said: ‘The Allied generals were  completely baffled by the decision of the Germans to dig in’, and ‘I can  see no signs anywhere that our military leaders and guides are consider­ing any plans for extricating us from our present unsatisfactory position.’8  Corresp ., XVII, No. 14343, and XXXII, p. 240.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 165 --- 162 THE CONDUCT OF WAR profitably struck? The answer depended on the most practical allied line of operations, which, in its turn, was governed by the location of the allied main bases. They were France and Great Britain, and in no other area than France could the ponderous mass armies of this period be fully deployed and supplied in the field. The main bases and the main theatre of war were fixed by geography and logistics, and no juggling with fronts could alter this.Because the allied governments had no common policy to direct them in the conduct of the war, and in spite of General Joffre’s insistence that all available strength should be con­centrated in France, once the stalemate set in a confusion of victory-winning plans was suggested by his British ally. In France, Sir John French proposed a joint military and naval operation to capture Ostend and Zeebrugge, in order to turn the German flank; Lord Fisher, First Sea Lord of the Admiralty, advocated a combined naval and military attack on the coast of Schleswig-Holstein; his master, Mr Churchill, First Lord of the Admiralty, pressed for an expedition against the Dar­danelles; while, on 1st January 1915, Mr Lloyd George, Chancellor of the Exchequer, proposed that the B.E.F. in France, with the exception of a general reserve to be kept in England and Boulogne, should be withdrawn from France and sent to the Balkans.1  Meanwhile, under the