epped into the international arena and suggested a conference. In January 1906, it met at Algeciras, and con- 1  Cited from Grey’s Twenty-Five Years 1892-1926  (1925), p. 94.*  Soldiers and Statesmen , Vol. I., p. 49. Sir William Robertson also  writes that, early in 1906, ‘. .. the Operations Directorate submitted a  “Memorandum upon the Military Forces required for Overseas War­fare” . . .  It did for the first time discuss a “war alliance with France  against Germany”, which was referred to as “an eventuality to be  seriously considered”. . . . The proposal was that a force of at least four  cavalry brigades and three army corps’ should be dispatched to France  (Ibid., Vol. I, pp. 28-29).  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 149 --- 146 THE CONDUCT OF WAR firmed the pledges of the Powers to uphold the independence of Morocco.Soon after this conference the British Government came to an understanding with Russia, which released the latter from perils in the Far East, and enabled her to turn her undivided attention to Europe. Thus a Triple Entente came into being to face the Triple Alliance; this meant that, in the event of hostilities, Germany would be faced with a war on two fronts.While the Morocco crisis shocked international relations, in England a naval panic, engineered by a Mr Mulliner of the Coventry Ordnance Company, shocked the Government, the Opposition and the people, and so hysterical did the press become that Admiral Sir John Fisher, First Sea Lord of the Admiralty, decided to inform the Kang on the true situation. In a long letter to him he said:‘In March this year, 1907, it is an absolute fact that Germany has not laid down a single “Dreadnought”, nor has she com­menced building a single Battleship or Big Cruiser for eighteen months . . .  half of the whole German Battle Fleet is only equal to the English Armoured Cruisers...  .’1Later, on 21st March 1909, in a letter to Lord Esher, Fisher said:‘The unswerving intention of 4 years has now culminat