man was the leading exponent of this return to bar­barism. He broke away from the conventions of nineteenth century warfare, and waged war with steel as ruthlessly as Calvin had waged it with the word. After severe fighting, on 1  Papers of the Military Historical Society of Massachusetts,  Vol. XIV,  pp. 450-3.2  History of the United States  (1893-1906), Vol. Ill, p. 413.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 111 --- 108 THE CONDUCT OF WAR 1st September 1864, he took Atlanta, ‘the gate city of the South’, and bent on leaving no enemies behind him he evacu­ated the entire population. He explained in a letter to General Halleck, Chief of Staff at Washington: ‘If the people raise a howl against my barbarity and cruelty, I will answer that war is war. . . .  If they want peace they and their relatives must stop the war.’1For the nineteenth century this was a new conception, because it meant that the deciding factor in war -  the power to sue for peace -  was transferred from government to people, and that peace-making was a product of revolution. This was to carry the principle of democracy to its ultimate stage, and with it introduce the theory of the psychological attack -  in essence Marxist warfare. Of Sherman, Major George W. Nichols, one of his aides-de-camp, says: ‘He is a Democrat in the best sense of the word. There is nothing European about him. He is a striking type of our institutions.’2Later, when Sherman set out on his famous march through Georgia, he made this new concept of war his guiding principle, and waged war against the people of the South as fully as against its armed forces.Nothing like this march had been seen in the West since the maraudings of Tilly and Wallenstein in the Thirty Years’  War. Southern guerillas, as Sherman notes, had shown and con­tinued to show much brutality; but the atrocities they per­petrated were individual acts and not acts of policy. With some justification Jefferson Davis calls Sherman ‘the Attila of the American Co