y was established by the Treaty of Reichen- bach, and, in accordance with one of its clauses, the Allied Powers -  Russia, Austria, Prussia and Sweden -  agreed that under no circumstances was any one of their armies to incur the risk of a single-handed encounter with Napoleon in person. Whichever army met him was at once to retire, until all forces in the field could be united against him. This drew the fangs of his offensive strategy.Napoleon’s Headquarters Staff comprised two unrelated departments: the Office of the Chief of Staff, and the General Staff. The first was under the direction of Marshal Berthier, Prince of NeuchA tel; it consisted of a secretariat and the Emperor’s aides-de-camp -  his liaison officers.1  The second normally included three Assistant Chiefs of Staff* whose duties were analogous to those of a modern Quartermaster General, with a topographical section added.‘The staff, writes Colonel Vachee, ‘in no way participated in the Emperor’s intellectual work; it was never taken into 1  Some were generals, others colonels, and some captains, employed on  special missions or to carry orders to Napoleon’s marshals on campaign  or in battle. Some of the missions were extraordinary, see the one given  to Baron Lejeune in February 1810, mentioned in his Memoirs  (English  edition, 1897), Vol. II, pp. 37-38.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 57 --- 54 THE CONDUCT OF WAR his confidence; it had but to obey scrupulously. “Keep strictly to the orders which I give you; I alone know what I must do.” Such were Berthier’s orders.’  And ‘Berthier looked upon this effacement of his own personality as perfectly natural. “I am nothing in the army. I receive, in the Emperor’s name, the reports of the marshals, and I sign these orders for him, but I am personally null” (Berthier to Soult, Osterode, March 1, 1807). “The Emperor, Monsieur le Marechal, needs neither advice nor plans of campaign. No one knows his thought, and our duty is to obey” (Berthier to Ney, W