n should always be adapted to circumstances, and circumstances are always fluid.Brutality in war seldom pays, this is a truism with few exceptions. Another is, never drive your enemy to despair, for although it may win you the war, it will almost certainly prolong it to your disadvantage.Throughout the history of war it is noticeable how fre­quently enemies and friends change sides in rotation. There­fore, once you have knocked your enemy out, it is wise to set him on his feet again, because the chances are that you will need his assistance in the next conflict.Finally, I would like to conclude with a suggestion. There  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 17 --- 14 THE CONDUCT OF WAR are many manuals on war, and although I am no great lover of official textbooks, when I  had written this book it occurred to me that there was ample room for one which should head the list -  namely on ‘The Conduct of War’. It should be written for both statesmen and soldiers, and be made compulsory read­ing. With advantage it might be divided into two parts: ‘How to Conduct a War’ and ‘How not to Conduct a War’; for the second part, as this book will show, there is a superabundance of raw materials. December  1960 J. F . C. Fu ller  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 18 --- C H A P T E R  I The Limited Wars of the Absolute Kings * 1 •  The Thirty Years' War and the Italian Condottieri The age of the absolute kings arose from the ashes of the Wars of Religion, which culminated in the Thirty Years’  War (1618- 1648), the latter half of which was a hideous conflict of hastily enrolled mercenaries, as often as not accompanied by hordes of starving people.1  When, in 1648, the Peace of Westphalia put an end to the anarchy, Central Europe lay in ruins; 8,000,000 people are said to have perished, not counting some 850,000 killed in battle. In one district of Thuringia, of 1,717 houses in 19 villages only 627 survived; in Bohemia, of 35,000 villages no more than 6,000 were inhabitable, a