mely vulnerable railroad network would have greatly extended and cumulated the effects of the shipping attack already made. ‘The Survey’, we read, ‘believes that such an attack [on a stated number of rail ferries, tunnels and bridges] had it been well-planned in advance, might have been initi­ated . . .  in August, 1944.. . . The Survey has estimated that the force requirements to effect complete interdiction of the railroad system would have been 650 B-29 visual sorties carrying 5,200 tons of high explosive bombs.’3When these requirements are deducted from the 15,000 sorties flown and the 104,000 tons of bombs dropped on the sixty-six cities, the residue is a fair comment of the strategic error committed by the Joint Chiefs of Staff.The political centre of gravity also eluded the President and 1  United States Strategic Bombing Survey , Summary Report , (Pacific  War), p. 11.2  Ibid., p. 17.8  Ibid., p. 19.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 302 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 9 9 his advisers; it lay in the person of the Japanese Emperor, because he was the godhead of the armed forces, and in the eyes of his people a divinity. But the one thing he could not do was to order his people to surrender unconditionally, and thereby acquiesce in becoming a war criminal, to be placed on trial, or shot at sight.1Early in 1944, Rear-Admiral Sokichi Takagi, of the Japanese Naval General Staff, came to the conclusion that, in order to end the war, Japan should seek a compromise peace, and although on 15th April 1945, Admiral Kantaro Suzuki suc­ceeded General Kuniaki Koiso to implement one, he was un­willing to do so as long as the status of the Emperor was jeopardized by unconditional surrender. At length in June, the Emperor, who since January had increasingly become con­vinced that the war must be ended, decided to send Prince Fumimaro Konoye on a mission to Moscow to seek Soviet mediation. At the same time Naotake Sato, the Japanese Ambassador in Moscow, was instructe