e  writer of this review remembers attending a great meeting in  New England, held under the auspices of a Christian Church -  God save the mark! A speaker demanded that the Kaiser, when  captured, be boiled in oil, and the entire audience stood on  chairs to scream its hysterical approval. This was the mood we  were in. This was the kind of madness that had seized us.” 5 1  ‘One of the most appalling revelations of the entire war’,  write Morison and Commager, ‘was the ease with which  modern technique and mass-suggestion enables a government  to make even a reasonably intelligent people, with an indi­vidualistic, democratic background, believe anything it likes.’2  The aim of the third category was to rot the enemy pscyho-  logically by subverting the loyalty of his people and his armed  forces -  to disarm them morally. So insidious was this form  of attack that in his memoirs Ludendorff again and again  refers to it and the blockade as the most potent factors in  Germany’s defeat. He writes:‘The strangling hunger blockade and the enemy’s propa­ganda, which went hand in hand in the fight against the Ger­man race and spirit, were a heavy burden -  a burden that  grew ever heavier as the war lasted.. . .  Blockade and pro­paganda began gradually to undermine the moral resolution  and shake the belief in ultimate victory.. . .  All German senti­ment, all patriotism, died in many breasts. Self came first. . . .  We lost confidence in ourselves.. . .  The idea of revolution,  preached by enemy propaganda and Bolshevism, found the  Germans in a receptive frame of mind.. . .  Pernicious doctrines  spread among the masses. The German people at home and  the front, had received its death blow.. . .  We were hypnotized  by the enemy propaganda as a rabbit is by a snake. It worked  by strong mass-suggestion, kept in close touch with the military 1  British Propaganda at Home and in the United States from 1914 to  1917,  James Duane Squires (1935), pp. 67-68. In the Appendix