rx were fully aware ‘that modern warfare is of a fourfold nature -  diplomatic, economic, psycho­logical, and only as a last resort military. . . . They were fully aware that military campaigns could be lost before the first bullet was shot, that they would in fact be decided beforehand on the preliminary battlefronts of economic and psychological warfare.. . .  To them war was fought with different means in different fields. In the words of the later militant syndicalist Georges Sorel, a general strike could become a “Napoleonic battle” .. . During the “promising” crisis of 1857, Engels wrote to Marx: “A continuing economic depression could be used by astute revolutionary strategy as a useful weapon for a chronic pressure . . .  in order to warm up the people . . . just as a cavalry attack has greater elan if the horses first trot five hundred paces before coming within charging distance of the enemy.” ’2These original speculations on the art of waging war, indirectly derived from Clausewitz, were destined two genera­tions later to revolutionize the whole conduct of war. Class war was, indeed, a profound military problem, because the social health of a nation is the moral foundation of its military power. 1  On 25th September 1857, Engels wrote to Marx: ‘I am now reading  Clausewitz, On War.  A strange way of philosophizing but very good on  the subject. To the question whether war should be called an art or a  science, the answer given is that war is most like a trade [On War , Vol. I,  p. 40]. Fighting is to war what cash payment is to trade, for however  rarely it may be necessary for it actually to occur, everything is directed  towards it, and eventually it must take place all the same and must be  decisive’  (Makers of Modem Strategy , p. 158).*  Ibid., p. 156.INFLUENCES OF THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 85  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 89 --- 86 THE CONDUCT OF WAR 4 • Impact of the Revolution on M ilitary Power Due to the inertia of armies and navies, th