nd peace. Because of this, as Mr Byron Dexter has pointed out: ‘The distinguishing characteristic’  in Soviet war­fare ‘is the interchangeability of political and military weapons. A “peace offensive” in Moscow, a cultural conference in Warsaw, a strike in France, an armed insurrection in Czechoslovakia, the invasion of Greece and Korea by fully equipped troops -  all are instruments of one war, turned on and turned off from a central tap.’1  To the Marxist, the bloodiest of wars and the most serene periods of peace are, as is laid down on the opening page of The Communist Manifesto , in them­selves but phases in a constant and uninterrupted class struggle, ‘now hidden, now open fight’, which ends ‘either in a revolutionary reconstruction of society at large, or in the common ruin of the contending classes.’This theory of unified war -  a war in all dimensions -  directed by a supreme central intelligence, agrees with Clause­witz’s remark that ‘War belongs to the province of social life’; which means ‘that it is not an act performed by military men only, but is an expression of the conflict of ideas, objectives and way of life of an entire society with those of some other society.’2  This was further elaborated by Clausewitz when he wrote: 1  ‘Clausewitz and Soviet Strategy’, Foreign Affairs , October 1950,  Vol. 29, No. 1, p. 41. 2  Ibid., p. 41. 202  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 206 --- ‘We see, therefore, in the first place, that under all cir­cumstances War is to be regarded not as an independent thing,  but as a political instrument [that is, an instrument related  to both peace and war]; and it is only by taking this point of  view that we can avoid finding ourselves in opposition to all  military history. This is the only means of unlocking the great  book and making it intelligible. Secondly, this view shows us  how Wars must differ in character according to the nature of  the motives and circumstances from which they proceed.’1  It would not be a s