nd, as already mentioned, in the age of the absolute kings the civil population was altogether excluded from war. This differentiation was now abolished, and a return was made to the armed horde, this time on a national footing.It was not a new idea, and it should not be confused with the one which underlay the old national levies, such as the Anglo-Saxon fyrd, which were only called out in time of war, 1  Goethe’s Campaign in France in the Year 1792  (trans. Robert Farie,  1859), p. 31.*  Foch’s The Principles of War  (trans. Hilaire Belloc, 1918), p. 29.*  The French Revolution,  Bk. II, Chap. VIII.4  General Westermann in La Vendee reported: ‘I have crushed the  children under the hoofs of the horses, massacred the women . . .  w ho. . .  will breed no more brigands. I have not a single prisoner with which to  reproach myself. I have wiped out a ll.. . .  The roads are strewn with  corpses.. . .  We take no prisoners: it would be necessary to feed them  with the bread of Liberty’ (cited in The Armed Horde 1793-1939,  p. 91).THE REBIRTH OF UNLIMITED WAR 31  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 35 --- 82 THE CONDUCT OF WAR while conscript armies were standing armies. It is uncertain whether Machiavelli was the first to suggest the idea, but it is known that he composed the memorandum on the basis of which was promulgated the Ordinanza  of 1506, the law which established obligatory military service between the ages of 18 and 30 in Florence. Later, Francis Bacon condemned the idea, and in his essay ‘On Unity in Religion’, he held it to be ‘a thing monstrous to put it [the temporal sword] into the hands of the common people.’  But in the eighteenth century, as previously mentioned, Guibert championed the idea, and so did Marshal Saxe who, when he referred to the raising of troops in his Reveries , asked the question: ‘Would it not be better to estab­lish a law, obliging men of all conditions of life, to serve their King and country for the space of 5 years?’  and wen