cture the unskilled worker is the real worker, and the skilled craftsman is no more than his auxilliary, who prepares his work for him.These radical changes in Western Civlization began to take root soon after James W att (1736-1819), a Scottish instrument maker, in 1769 patented his improved steam engine, and, twelve years later, Matthew Boulton, a wealthy and far-sighted engineer, who had entered into partnership with W att, wrote to him that ‘The People of London, Birmingham, and Man­chester are steam-mill mad.’4  In 1818, Lord Cochrane (later 1  Technics and Civilization  (1934), pp. 45 and 58.*  The Poetical Works of William Blake  (edit. Edwin J. Ellis, 1906),  Vol. I, p. 433.*  He holds that ‘The army is in fact the ideal form toward which a  purely mechanized system of industry must tend’ (Op. cit., p. 89).4  Cited in European Civilization , its Origins and Development  (edit.  Edward Eyre, 1937), Vol. V, p. 305.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 82 --- tenth Earl of Dundonald), in a speech in the House of Com­mons said: In the late war England would have been brought ‘to total ruin’, but ‘for the timely intervention of the use of machinery’;1  and in 1824, Stendhal wrote: ‘What a change from 1785 to 1824! In the two thousand years of recorded history, so sharp a revolution in customs, ideas, and beliefs has perhaps never occurred before.’2  By 1830, Great Britain had become ‘the workshop of the world’, as Napoleon had feared; yet, in spite of all his genius, he failed in his struggle against her commercial might, because, as Dundonald bore witness, although still in its cradle, the Machine had proved itself to be mightier than the Sword. 2 •  Impact of the Revolution on Society The most important social consequence of the Industrial Revolution was the emergence of a class of permanent wage- earners, the proletariat of the Socialist theorists. Permanent wage-earners were known in the domestic system, but as indi­viduals and not as a class. They were not