. .‘(2) To concentrate our force as much as possible at the point where the decisive blows are to be struck. . . .‘(3) Not to lose time. . . . By rapidity many measures of the enemy are nipped in the bud, and public opinion is gained in our favour... . Surprise. . .  is the most powerful element of victory... .u 1  Clausewitz also says that surprise ‘lies at the foundation of all  undertakings without exception’;  that it is ‘not only the means to the  attainment of numerical superiority; but it is also to be regarded as a  substantive principle in itself, on account of its moral effect;’  and that  ‘secrecy and rapidity are the two factors in this product’ (I, p. 199).  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 73 --- 70 THE CONDUCT OF WAR ‘(4) Lastly . . .  to follow up the success we gain with the utmost energy. The pursuit. . .  is the only means of gathering up the fruits of victory.‘The first of these principles is the foundation of the three others.. . .‘Due attention being paid to these principles, the form in which the operations are carried on is in the end of little consequence’  (in , pp. 209-211).Because the principles of war are so frequently referred to and so seldom defined by military writers, and because Clausewitz opens his study with the statement that ‘War is nothing but a duel on an extensive scale’, it is strange that he made no attempt to deduce his principles from this definition. Had he illustrated this simplest form of war by a fight between two pugilists, instead of a struggle between two wrestlers, he might have seen that throughout it each pugilist has to do four things -  to think, to guard, to move and to hit.Before the bout opens, each man must consider how best to knock his adversary out, and although, as the fight proceeds, he may be compelled to modify his tactics, he must never abandon his aim. At the start he must assume a defensive attitude until he has measured up his opponent. Next, he must move toward him under cover of his defe