ustry Plan’  and the second the ‘Occupation Directive’. Both are far too long to quote from in detail, but the following items will make their intentions clear:‘Level of Industry Plan’: Its aim was to reduce German industrial capital equipment to a minimum, and make all in excess of this available for reparations. All implements of war, all types of aircraft, and all sea-going ships were prohibited, and the production of synthetic oil, synthetic rubber, radio transmitting equipment and hosts of other things were for­bidden. The yearly production of steel was not to exceed5,800,000 tons, and all non-ferrous metals, basic chemicals, machine tools, electrical equipment, motor vehicles, loco­motives and freight wagons were to be drastically reduced. 1  Our Chancellor , Moritz Busch (English edition, 1884), Vol. I, pp.  98-9.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 305  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 309 --- 3 0 6 THE CONDUCT OF WAR ‘The general effect of the plan’, we read, ‘is a reduction in the level of industry as a whole to a figure of about 50 or 55 per cent, the pre-war level in 1938.5 1This meant starvation for millions of Germans, and America, the most generous of countries, should have foreseen that the civilized world would not tolerate this indefinitely.‘Occupation Directive (JCS 1067/6)’: It outlined the policy to be followed by General Eisenhower, and as a member of the Council of Control he was to urge its adoption by the other occupying Powers. The political and administrative structure of Germany was to be decentralized. Fraternization was forbidden. All members of the Nazi Party and supporters of Nazism were to be excluded from public office and private enterprise. All military organizations, including the German Officers Corps, were to be dissolved. All officials of the Nazi Party, members of the political police, the Waffen S.S., the General Staff, leading officials, urban and rural burgomasters, and Nazi sympathizers were to be arrested. No political activ