ed all the conditions indi­cated above. . .  and if we have chosen the moment rightly, our victory is assured”.’2 1  Selected Works , Vol. II, pp. 133-4.2  Problems of Leninism , pp. 86-87.SOVIET REVOLUTIONARY WARFARE 2 0 7  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 211 --- 2 0 8 THE CONDUCT OF WAR In spite of the defensive being, in Lenin’s opinion, the death of every armed rising, he paid close attention to Clausewitz’s theory of defensive and counter-offensive. After the revolution­ary parties have learned to attack, he wrote: ‘they have to realize that this knowledge must be supplemented with know­ledge how to retreat’, and ‘that victory is impossible unless they have learned how to attack and retreat properly.’1In other words, the aim in strategy is not only to win battles but also to gain time wherein to accumulate forces which can win them. This he said he did during the Brest-Litovsk nego­tiations, in order to prepare the offensives against Kolchak and Denikin. Three years after the signing of the Brest-Litovsk peace he wrote: ‘Now the biggest fool can see that the “Brest Peace” was a concession that strengthened us and broke up the forces of international imperialism.’8That Engels, Marx and Lenin,8  the three most noted revo­lutionary exponents since the French Revolution, none of whom was a soldier, were so deeply indebted to Clausewitz is surely the highest compliment ever paid to his insight on the nature of war. 3 •  The Third  (Communist) International Because the October Revolution gave the workers of the world a fatherland to fight for, Lenin had expected that world-wide revolution would follow on its heels. With high expectations, on 20th January 1918, he wrote: ‘That the Socialist revolution in Europe must come, and will come, is beyond doubt. All our hopes for the final  victory of Socialism are founded on this certainty and on this scientific prognosis.’4  And again on 7th March, four days after the signing of the Peace of Brest- 1  Ibid., p. 88. 1 I