­promised the honour of all sovereigns, and he urged William II of Prussia (1786-1797) to rescue Louis and his queen, Marie Antoinette -  Leopold’s sister. The outcome was that, on 20th April 1792, France declared war on Austria, a war which, with one brief interlude, was to last until 1815. Two years before its declaration, on 20th May 1790, in the French National Assembly Mirabeau had predicted with remarkable clairvoy­ance what type of war it would be:je  votes demands a vous-m ernes: sera-t-on mieux assure de  n’avoir que des guerres justes, equitables , si Von delegue exclusive - ment a une assemblee de 700 personnes Vexercice du droit defaire  la guerre? Avez-vous prevu jusqu’ou les mouvements passiones,  jusqu’ou V  exaltation du courage et d’unefausse dignite pourroient  porter etjustijier Vimprudence  . . . ? Pendant qu’un des membres  proposer a de deliberer , on demandera la guerre a grands cris;  vous verrez autour de votes une armee de dtoyens . Votes ne serez  pas trompes par des ministres; ne le serez-vous jamais par vous-  memes?  . . .  Voyez les peuples libres: e’est par des guerres plus  ambitieuses, plus barbares qu’ils se sont toujours distingues . Voyez  les assemblies politiques: e’est toujours sous le charme de la  passion qu’elles ont decrete la guerre.’3 2 • Conscription a Return to Barbarism France was lamentably unprepared for war: her treasury was 1  The Cambridge Modem History  (1904), Vol. VIII, pp. 34-35.2  Cited by Thomas Carlyle in The French Revolution , Bk. V, Chap.  VII.8  Cited by Arnold J. Toynbee in A Study of History  (1939), Vol. IV,  p. 150.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 33 --- 30 THE CONDUCT OF WAR bankrupt, her army chaotic, and her people hysterical. Her sole assets were that the bulk of her soldiers were too raw to fight in accordance with the rules which governed the ‘sport of kings’, and sufficiently intelligent to devise more practical ones of their own. Also, the Revolution had many admirers in neighbouring