he British Government.On 31st July, the German Ambassador in St. Petersburg was instructed to present an ultimatum to the Russian Govern­ment to demand the cessation of mobilization within twelve hours, failing which Germany would mobilize. As the demand was unanswered, on 1st August Germany and Russia were at war, and France ordered general mobilization.On 2nd August, Italy declared her neutrality;2  German  cavalry patrols entered Luxemburg, and the German  Minister in Brussels delivered a note to the Belgium Govern­ 1  Causes of the War: An examination into the causes of the European  War , with special reference to Russia and Serbia  (London, 1920), pp. 65  and 68.*  Austria did not declare war on Russia until 6th August.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 153 --- 150 THE CONDUCT OF WAR ment in which a free passage of German troops through Belgium was demanded. It was rejected, and the next day the King of the Belgians made a personal appeal to the King of England to safeguard his country. At 6.45 p.m. Germany declared war on France, and a few hours later on Belgium. Lastly, at 3 p.m. on 4th August, Sir Edward Goschen was instructed by the British Foreign Office to obtain assurance from Germany that Belgian neutrality, which was guaranteed by treaty, would be respected. It was then that Bethman- Hollweg, the German Chancellor, said in reply: ‘Just for a scrap of paper Great Britain is going to make war on a kindred race.5  1  At midnight on 4th August Britain declared war on Germany. 1  If not a ‘scrap of paper’, the Treaty of 1839 was little more than a  ‘holy relic’. Under its terms British obligations were not defined, and  there was no provision which necessitated England sending troops to  Belgium to make war on any Power that should violate her territories.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 154 --- C H A PT E R  IX The Conduct of World War I * 1 •  Policy and War When the twentieth century dawned, the frontiers of the British Empire had become the