fore the Germans crossed the Russian frontier, when at dinner with Mr Winant, the American Ambassador, Churchill remarked to him that a German attack on Russia was imminent, and that he would go all out to help Russia. And when Winant asked him, ‘whether for him, the arch anti- Communist, this was [not] bowing down in the House of Rimmon?’  Churchill replied: ‘Not at all, I have only one purpose, the destruction of Hitler, and my life is much simpli­fied thereby. If Hitler invaded Hell I would make at least a favourable reference to the Devil in the House of Commons.’2  Apparently, it never occurred to him that the war was being fought, not to simplify his life, but to win a profitable peace.Next day, in a lurid broadcast to the British people, he said:‘We have but one aim and one single, irrevocable purpose.  We are resolved to destroy Hitler and every vestige of the  Nazi regime. From this nothing will turn us -  nothing. We will  never parley, we will never negotiate with Hitler or any of his  gang. . . .  Any man or state who fights against Nazidom will  have our aid. Any man or state who marches with Hitler is our  foe.. . .  That is our policy and that is our declaration. It  follows therefore that we shall give whatever help we can to  Russia and the Russian people.’3On 7th July, in a message to ‘Monsieur Stalin’, Churchill tendered all possible help, and five days later a treaty was agreed between Britain and the Soviet Union which pledged mutual help ‘without any precision as to the quantity or quality’, and affirmed that neither would conclude a separate peace. On 18th July, Stalin’s reply to Churchill’s offer was to ask him to open a front ‘in the West (Northern France) and in the North (the Arctic)’, adding that ‘the best time to open this front is now.’4 1  Great Mistakes of the War  (1950) p. 10.2  The Second World War , Vol. Ill, p. 331.3  Ibid., Vol. Ill, p. 332.4  Stalin's Correspondence with Churchill , Attlee , Roosevelt and Truman  1941-1945  (19