nd in the world. -  “Ah, that’s the trouble”, he replied unhesitatingly.. . .  And whenever I remarked, as I often did, that a United Nations’  commission estimated the population of China in the year 2000 at 1,600,000,000, the look of consternation was invariable. Nor was I surprised when on a couple of occasions Soviet officials quickly raised their vodka glasses and replied: “Which is another reason for better Soviet-American relations.” ’Wedged in as the Soviet Union is between two fronts, should it find itself threatened by an overwhelmingly powerful China, will it not be compelled through self-preservation to substitute for its corrosive policy of peaceful coexistence a defensive alliance with the West? Such an alliance will of course depend on how far the Western Powers feel themselves threatened by the Yellow Peril should the Soviet Union succumb. But there is nothing irrational in assuming that they may agree to an alliance on terms, say, the liberation of Eastern Europe and the reunification of Germany. Such seemingly incompatible alliances and somersaults are not unknown to history.There is an alternative possibility, which would avoid in­volving Russia as an enemy.Instead of expanding into Asiatic Russia, the Chinese could move into South-East Asia and Indonesia, which are far less thickly populated than China. Thence into New Guinea, Australia and New Zealand, together approximately the size of China and inhabited by 13,600,000 people -  one fiftieth of China’s present population!Should over-population (the biological cause of war) in China become insupportable, when she is in possession of nuclear weapons, as one day she undoubtedly will be, she may find it more expedient to expand than to explode by detonating a conventional war in South-East Asia. This would draw in  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 336 --- the Western Powers and compel Russia to intervene on her behalf. Next, she could put Mao Tse-tung’s boast to the gamble by resorting to nucl