lied to so large a one as France.When summing up his chapter on ‘Philosophy of the Revo­lution’, Mr P. F. Willert writes:‘The Revolution was an attem pt to apply in practice the principle of individual freedom: a negative principle, mainly valuable as an instrument to overthrow restrictions, which have lost their use and meaning and have become injurious.3  But it is remarkable that this negative principle was embraced 1  Ibid., Bk. IV, Chap. VIII.*  Benjamin Franklin (1706-1790) was of the same opinion. He wrote:  ‘. . . the judgement of a whole people, expecially of a free people is looked  upon as infallible’ (see Lord Acton’s Lectures on the French Revolution  (1932), pp. 21-22).8  Over 2,000 years before, Isocrates had said much the same thing  to Philip of Macedon in his Philippus:  ‘Promise them [the Ionic cities]  freedom, and scatter the word broadcast in Asia, which, falling on the  soil of Hellas, has broken up our empire as well as that of the Lacedae­monians.’ ( The Orations of Isocrates9  trans. J. H. Freese, Vol. I.)  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 32 --- THE REBIRTH OF UNLIMITED WAR 29 with the fervour of a religious faith. The great work done by the philosophers was the part they took in exciting this fervour; and it was because there is little that is original in their teach­ing that it was received with enthusiasm.’1On 14th July 1789, the rabble of Paris stormed the Bastille and massacred its garrison, and when the news was brought to Louis XVI he exclaimed: ‘This is a revolt.’  To which the Duke of Liaucourt replied: ‘No, Sire, it is a revolution.’2  And when the news of Louis’  arrest at Varennes, on 21st June 1791, which put an end to his escape from France, reached Leopold II (1790 -1792), Emperor of Austria, he declared that the arrest com­promised the honour of all sovereigns, and he urged William II of Prussia (1786-1797) to rescue Louis and his queen, Marie Antoinette -  Leopold’s sister. The outcome was that, on 20th April 1792, Fr