ns would advance through Belgium, and that therefore the most powerful French forces should be assembled on the left. The Comite des Forges de  France  disagreed, because this would not sufficiently protect the Lorraine iron-fields, and the General Staff supported the Comite , and by a shady trick persuaded the Minister of War to replace Michel by General Joffre.The theory of ‘mass plus velocity’, then held by the General Staff, exactly fitted Joffre’s bull-like temperament. The offensive was his one and only aim, as it was of his political master, President Fallieres, who, in 1912, asserted: ‘We are determined to march straight against the enemy without hesitation. . . .  The offensive alone is suited to the temperament of our soldiers.’1The plan of war agreed was one of pathetic simplicity, ‘reposanf , as Jean de Pierrefeu says, ‘tout entier sur Videe  mystique de Voffensive.’2  It was known as Plan XVII, and was based on two postulates: (1) That at first the Germans would 1  The Memoirs of Marshal Joffre  (English trans., 1932), Vol. I, p. 30.2  Pluiarque a menti  (1922), p. 55.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 160 --- not bring into line reserve formations as well as active ones -  which General Michel had said they would -  therefore they would not be strong enough simultaneously to advance through Belgium as well as through Lorraine. And (2) that as the French soldier was irresistible in the attack, the sole thing necessary was to deploy the French armies between Mezieres and Epinal, move straight forward, smash the German centre -  or rather what was assumed to be the centre -  and then paralyse the German communications in Lorraine.The remaining belligerent plans can be given in brief. Great Britain’s was to support France with an Expeditionary Force of four infantry and one cavalry divisions; but no blockade of Germany was resorted to other than the seizure of contraband cargoes allowed by maritime law, in accordance with the Declaration of London. Au