, Orville Wright in a power-driven aeroplane flew for twelve seconds, and thereby added a third dimension to war.In the internal combustion engine lay hidden the greatest revolution in civil life and war since primitive man first tamed the horse. Its influence on civilization was so profound that, were it possible today by the wave of a magician’s wand to abolish all motor vehicles, civil life would be brought to a complete standstill, and next to utter chaos. It made oil so essential a source of motive power that its acquisition became the most vital of political problems. Logistically and tactically it completely changed the organization of armies; it abolished horse transport, led to the introduction of armoured fighting vehicles, and in the skies opened a universal roadway for air­borne supplies, artillery, and armies. Comparable with its influence on peace and war, only one other invention of this period challenged it -  that was wireless telegraphy.In 1887 it was first given theoretical form by Rudolf Hertz, who proved that under certain conditions an electrical spark creates an effect which is propagated into space as an electro­magnetic wave. Other scientists investigated the problem, and between 1894 and 1896 Guglielmo Marconi concentrated his attention on the improvement of devices which could detect electromagnetic waves. He was so successful that, in 1899, during the British naval manoeuvres he transmitted a wireless message between two cruisers, and on 12th December 1901, he sent electromagenetic wave signals across the Atlantic from Cornwall to Newfoundland, a distance of 3,000 miles. Its in- 1  Mechanical Traction in War for Road Transport , Lieut.-Col. Otfried  Layriz (English edition, 1900), p. 96.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 141 --- 138 THE CONDUCT OF WAR fluences on civil life and on naval strategy were enormous, and no wit less so on land and air warfare. Also it went far, if not to create psychological warfare, to give world-wide powe