n of the people . . .  is in all cases most important’  (II, p. 159).Conversely, in an enemy country this applies to the invader, and to illustrate it Clausewitz turns to Spain, where ‘. . . the war, as regards its leading events, is chiefly a war carried on by the people themselves, we may see that we have here virtually a new power rather than a manifestation of increased cooperation on the part of the people’  (II, p. 159). Indeed a foreseeing remark.‘According to our idea of a people’s War’, he writes, ‘it should, like a kind of nebulous vapoury essence, never con­dense into a solid body; otherwise the enemy sends an adequate force against this core [and] crushes it.’  It should be supported by small regular detachments, in order to encourage the in­habitants. They should not be too large, otherwise too many of the enemy’s troops will be drawn toward them, and the inhabitants will leave it to the regular forces to fight it out. Also, the presence of large bodies of troops makes too great a demand on the resources of the people in provision of quarters, transport and contributions (II, pp. 346-347). 1  See D’Odeleben’s Relation CirconstancUe de la Campagne de 1813 en  Saxe  (French edition, 1817), Vol. I, p. 167.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 78 --- THE THEORIES OF CLAUSEWITZ 75 His remarks on Russia are highly interesting, and never more so than today. Russia, he says, is a country which cannot be conquered by force of arms. ‘Such a country can only be subdued by its own weakness, and by the effects of internal dissension. In order to strike these vulnerable points in its political existence, the country must be agitated to its very centre’  (III, p. 159). In other words, Russia can only be con­quered on her inner front. This means victory through revolution, and Clausewitz was probably the first to suggest this. 10  •  Clausewitz's disregard of Napoleonic Warfare When it is borne in mind that Clausewitz not only lived throughout the Napoleonic Wars, bu