erely believed that they were liberating themselves from Tyranny!’2  And Colonel F. N. Maude, in his article on ‘Conscription’  in the eleventh edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica9  comments on it thus: ‘There is perhaps no law in the statute-books of any nation which has exercised and is destined in the future to exercise a more far reaching influence on the future of humanity than this little known French act.’From August that year onward, not only was war to become more and more unlimited, but finally total. In the fourth decade of the twentieth century life was held so cheaply that the massacre of civilian populations on wholesale lines became as accepted a strategical aim as battles were in previous wars. In 150 years conscription had led the world back to tribal barbarism. 3 •  The Changes due to Conscription Democracy made all men equal in theory, but it was con­scription which did so in fact, and Condorcet must have sensed this when, in his Esquisses d'un tableau historique des progres  de Vesprit humain , he connected the rise of infantry with the rise of democracy. It would have been more correct had he reversed the sequence, because the musket made the infantry­man, and the infantryman made the democrat: power to kill and, therefore, to enforce equality at the bayonet point was the essence of the question. Hence, one man one musket became one man one vote, until votes and muskets were to be reckoned in millions. This led to the greatest political and military transformation the world had as yet seen, which, as cited by Foch, was noted by Clausewitz as follows: XVII, p. 478. ‘Que voulez-vousV  asks Barere in his report on this requi­sition of all Frenchmen, ‘t In contingent . . .  ? Le contingent de la France  pour sa liberty comprend Unite sa population , toute son industrie, tous ses  travaux, tout son g&nie ....  Publions une grand v&riti: la liberti est devenue  crian&tre de Urns les citoyens: les uns lui doivent leur industries les autres  leur fo