sition of her corps of staff officers . . . ours cannot be compared with it. . . . The composition of the Prussian staff will, in the next war, constitute the most formidable element of superiority in favour of the Prussian Army.’1In 1870 the Prussians were faced with a breech-loading rifle, the French chassepot sighted to 1,200 meters. It was greatly superior to the Prussian needle-gun; but the French bronze muzzle-loading field guns were inferior to the Prussian iron breech-loaders, and the expert use the Prussians made of them more than compensated for the inferiority of their rifles. A weapon the French might have made better use of was Reffeye’s mitrailleuse , a machine gun of twenty-five barrels, axis grouped and sighted to 1,200 metres, which could fire at 1  Military Reports,  pp. 48, 56.MOLTKE, FOCH, AND BLOCH 119  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 123 --- 120 THE CONDUCT OF WAR the rate of 125 rounds a minute. In order to keep it a dead secret, it was not issued to the army until a few days before the outbreak of hostilities, and, according to Reffeye, it was then used ‘in a perfectly idiotic fashion’, which is not surprising as no troops had been trained to use it.The French rifle tactics were based on long-range volley fire, so as to take full advantage of the superior range of the chassepot; next to dig in and await the enemy’s approach, and lastly to overwhelm him with fire. Moltke met these tactics by assuming the tactical defensive-offensive: first, he held his enemy in front and next he attacked him in flank. Every tactical group from the company upwards was instructed to remain always on the offensive, so as to allow the French no breathing space: to hold by fire, attack by fire, manoeuvre under cover of fire, and outflank by fire; in short, never cease to fire until the battle was won.Throughout the war neither side succeeded in taking a position by a frontal attack, nor did either side succeed in bringing troops in close order into the firing