mmunism is a religion, and none the less potent for being  a secular one. It is an idee fixe , a faith held by a vast number of  Russians to be beyond criticism. Further, a point of world-wide  significance in the Communist peace offensive -  one which  almost universally is overlooked -  is its appeal to many  Western Christian Socialists. Nearly thirty years ago, Oscar  Levy, the translator of Nietzsche’s collected works into English,  pointed out that, in spite of its atheism, Bolshevism is a  Christian heresy.1  It is an international and a cosmopolitan  faith; it looks back upon a Garden of Eden in which strife  was non-existent, because property was shared in common,  and therefore there was nothing to fight about,2  and it looks  forward to a heaven in which, once the devil of capitalism has 1  The Idiocy of Idealism , Oscar Levy (1940), p. 14.8  Marx overlooked that men are as prone to fight over ideas as they  are over things, and should the entire world become Communist, there  would inevitably arise as many antagonistic warring Communist sects  as there have been antagonistic warring Christian ones. In Lenin’s day  the quarrels over the correct interpretation of Marx’s doctrines were  violent and incessant, and Stalin liquidated everyone who disagreed  with him, including nearly all Lenin’s surviving adherents.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 216 --- been exorcised, man will return to his pristine state of  innocence. Therefore it is millennary; also it is messianic -  the  proletariat is its messiah. It stands up for the poor, the weak  and the downtrodden, and it pours forth its wrath on the rich,  the cultured and the learned. The Communist Manifesto  is its  Sermon on the MountOscar Levy records that: ‘. . . at least one Russian did not  overlook the connexion between Bolshevism and Christianity.  This was Mr Lunacharski, the first Soviet Minister of Educa­tion who, in the hey-day of the Revolution, gave out the  memorable saying: “Christ, if H