s of the Nazi Party, members of the political police, the Waffen S.S., the General Staff, leading officials, urban and rural burgomasters, and Nazi sympathizers were to be arrested. No political activities were to be allowed. All criminal and civil courts were to be closed, as well as all educational institutions. The payment of military and private pensions was prohibited. All gold, silver, currencies and securities were to be impounded. No steps were to be taken toward the economic rehabilitation of Germany. And no action that would tend to support the basic living standard in Germany on a higher level than that existing in any one of the neighbouring countries was to be taken.2  In short, Germany was to be converted into a super­concentration camp.All this was finally agreed, signed and sealed at the Potsdam Conference, which assembled in the Cecilienhof on 17th July, by when Stalin was so firmly seated in the saddle that the delegates did little more than acclaim his victory.The two main items on the agenda were Germany and Poland. As regards the former, the decisions of the Yalta Conference were confirmed, so were the instructions laid down in the above two directives. Reparations were apportioned, 1  For the plan in full see German Realities,  Gustav Stolper (1948),  Appendix D, pp. 294-99.2  See ibid., Appendix C, pp. 273-93.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 310 --- mainly to the benefit of Russia, and the methods of trial of the major war criminals were agreed. Further, it was agreed that Konigsberg and the area adjacent to it should be trans­ferred to the Soviet Union.As regards Poland, agreement was reached on her western frontier, the final delimination of which should await the peace settlement. Pending this, the German territories east of the Oder and Western Neisse rivers, as well as the bulk of East Prussia and the former Polish Corridor were placed under the administration of the Polish State.1Further to this, the Conference agreed on the remov