ld unite all interests. And in no circumstances can the Art of War be regarded as its preceptor, because policy represents the interests of the whole  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 68 --- THE THEORIES O F CLAUSEWITZ 65 community. ‘The subordination of the political point of view to the military would be contrary to common sense, for policy has declared the War; it is the intelligent faculty, War is only the instrument, and not the reverse. The subordination of the military point of view to the political is, therefore, the only thing which is possible.’When it is recognized that war, other than an anarchy, should proceed from policy, ‘plans come, as it were out of a cast’, and conflicts between political and military interests are avoided. Should, however, policy make demands on the war which it cannot respond to, then policy is at fault. ‘But if policy judges correctly the march of military events, it is entirely its affair to determine what are the events and the direction of events most favourable to the ultimate and great end of the War. In one word, the Art of War in its highest point of view is policy, but, no doubt, a policy which fights battles instead of writing notes.’‘It is only when policy promises itself a wrong effect from certain military means and measures . . . that it can exercise a prejudicial effect on War by the course it prescribes.’  Also, should it not read correctly the nature of current events, its implementation may be disastrous. To illustrate this, Clause­witz turns to the French Revolution.‘If policy’, he writes, ‘had risen to a just appreciation of the forces which had sprung up in France, and of the new relations in the political state of Europe, it might have foreseen the consequences which must follow in respect to the great features of war, and it was only in this way that it could arrive at a correct view of the extent of the means required as well as of the best use to make of those means. We may therefore say, that the tw