ainst outsiders it is meritorious to kill, plunder, practise blood revenge and steal women . . . ’, whereas the opposite holds good for the in-group.1This, in various contexts, has been know for centuries. For instance: Xenophon makes Cyrus object to his father’s advice that a general must prove himself to be an arch-plotter, a cheat, a thief, and a robber, so that he may overreach his opponent at every turn. When Cyrus objects that this is con­trary to the lessons he had been taught on how to behave, his father replies: ‘Those lessons were for friends and fellow citizens, and for them they stand good; but for your enemies -  do you not remember that you were taught to do much harm.’2  Plato in his Republic  makes Potemarchus reply to Socrates’  question ‘What is justice?’  -  ‘Justice is helping friends and harming enemies.,’3  Hobbes in his Leviathan  states: ‘Force, and Fraud, are in warre the two Cardinall vertues’,4  which implies that in peacetime they are two cardinal vices. And David Hume in his Essays and Treatises  writes: In war ‘we recall our sense of justice and sympathy and permit injustice and enmity to take their place.’5  A glance through almost any newspaper pub­lished during the First and Second World Wars will convince the most sceptical reader that this is still so.The most dangerous foes of primitive man were those of his own species. Today man is man’s only foe, and homo homini  lupus  is as true as it was half a million years ago. War and the chase still make their old appeal; this is why instinctively every small boy loves a gun, and every adult is thrilled by a murder.War to the men of the Stone Age was not the business of a selected few, it was the occupation of every adult male, and it is still so, with the addition of numerous women. In savage warfare, the aim was to kill all enemy males and abduct the women and children. This has been improved upon by the invention of weapons which make discrimination between the victims impossible -  s