l of bullets; in propor­tion as the enemy is hard pressed, to bring forward more and more numerous troops, and, moreover, troops well in hand, such is the fundamental formula for the formations to be taken and tactics to be adopted.’The supports then advance ‘to push the first line on ahead’, and finally the reserves come up to impart ‘a last impulsion to the attacking force.’  The charge is then sounded, and ‘out of a cloud of dust or of smoke’, suddenly appear the cavalry. ‘They charge thence on anything that is still resisting among the enemy, or on enemy cavalry trying to charge on theMOLTKE, FOCH, AND BLOCH 127  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 131 --- 128 THE CONDUCT OF WAR attacking infantry, or on arriving enemy reserves as they come up.’ When the cavalry are omitted, this is Gettysburg over again!When we look back upon Foch’s offensive a outrance,  we sense Clausewitz throughout. Not the contemplative student of war, but a Clausewitz drunk on violence. We see also a tactically demented Napoleon, for whereas his battles were based on the weapons of his day -  and weapons should always give shape to tactics -  Foch ignores them. Step by step, with a few variations, he follows Napoleon in face of magazine rifles and quick-firing artillery as if they were the muskets and cannon of Jena and Friedland. More disastrous, his offensives  a outrance  and his battles aux allures dechamees  became the doctrine of the French army. 3 •  Mr I. S. Bloch Bloch was by birth a Polish Jew and by profession a Warsaw banker; he was also a pacifist of an unusual kind. His aim was not to eliminate or restrict war, instead it was to persuade the nations to realize that the ever-increasing power of firearms had, through their very deadliness, already eliminated war as a profitable political instrument. For him the cult of the offensive was an illusion, and in corroboration of this he set out to collect every possible fact which would support his con­tention. In 1897 he gave voi