ion, its sacrifice of the workers, and the emergence of a wealthy bourgeois class attached to its vested interests.‘But’, he writes, ‘the reader will say, are not these worthy people all Communists? Do not they all believe in world revolution? Of course they do. They are Communists just as the Victorians were Christians. They attend Communist Party meetings and lectures on Marxism-Leninism at regular intervals in exactly the same way the Victorians attended church on Sunday. They believe in world revolution just as implicitly as the Victorians believed in the Second Coming. And they apply the principles of Marxism in their private lives to just about the same extent as the Victorians applied the principles of the Sermon on the Mount to theirs.’2Should these appreciations be correct, and there is no reason to doubt them, then it is apparent that technology is 1  Peace with Soviet Russia?  (1960), pp. 180-1.*  Back to Bokhara  (1959), pp. 62-63.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 334 --- THE PROBLEM OF PEACE 831 transforming revolutionary Marxism into a bourgeois revival. While the Western nations are moving away from private enterprise toward state enterprise, the Soviet Union is moving away from state control to a freer social order. Will these two movements converge, or will they fight each other to the death? 6 •  The Problem of China The answer is probably to be sought in China’s future relations with the U.S.S.R.China is not a Russian satellite, she is an ideological partner of the Soviet Union -  but with a difference. While the Soviet Union is moving away from the forced industrialization of the Stalin period, China is still in the throes of an identical period and is therefore militantly minded. Because at present she is hopelessly at a loss in an economic war, Mao Tse-tung -  the Stalin of the Chinese Revolution -  has already come to logger­heads with his partner Khrushchev over his policy of peaceful coexistence, which excludes war. He has poured scorn