tern and southern Manchurian railways. As much of these territories was Chinese, it would appear that the President had forgotten about im­perialism and the Atlantic Charter.During the conference the allied armies under Eisenhower advanced on the Rhine; but it was not until 23rd March that the Third U.S. Army, under General George S. Patton, crossed it at Oppenheim, and on the following day the British Twenty- First Army Group and the Ninth U.S. Army, both under Field-Marshal Montgomery, did so at Wesel.When, on 13th April, Field-Marshal Model and 325,000 officers and men capitulated in the Ruhr, the road to Berlin was unbarred; Marshals Zhukov and Koniev were still on the Oder and Neisse, but Vienna had fallen to Marshal Malinovsky. It was imperative for Eisenhower to push on at top speed, because the Russians had broken or disregarded every impor­tant item of the Yalta Agreement which by then had been put to the test, and with Berlin and Prague in Anglo-American hands, the United States and Great Britain would be in a strong position to insist that the Russians honoured their agreements. ‘If we did not get things right’, says Churchill, ‘the world would soon see that Mr. Roosevelt and I had under-THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 9 5  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 299 --- 2 9 6 THE CONDUCT OF WAR written a fraudulent prospectus when we put our signatures to the Crimea settlements.’1Eisenhower, the complete non-Clausewitzian soldier, thought otherwise. ‘Military factors, when the enemy was on the brink of final defeat’, he writes in his report, ‘were more important in my eyes than the political considerations involved in an allied capture of the capital. The function of our forces must be to crush the German armies rather than dissipate our strength in the occupation of empty ruined cities.’2  The out­come was that on 14th April, two days after President Roosevelt’s death, Mr Harry S. Truman, who had succeeded him, instructed Eisenhower to halt his troops on th