. . .  As the enemy conquered Poland and France by their “tank blitz”, so can we smash the German machine by the “bomber blitz.” ’2Hypothetical though this was, there is nothing unstrategic  about it; but where Churchill, Trenchard, and so many other  exponents of strategic bombing were at fault was that, even  should the Douhet theory be accepted as practicable, at no  time before the advent of the atomic bomb was bombing suffi­ciently destructive to bring the war to a rapid end, unless it  was concentrated against the most vital targets. There were  five main groups:(1) The Military Group, which need not detain us, because  in the main it comes under the heading of tactical bombing.(2) The Industrial Group, factories of various kinds scattered throughout the Reich, which were estimated to cover an area of about 130 miles square. To destroy so vast and scattered a target and keep it destroyed would certainly be no blitz.  It would take years to effect, and would demand an astronomical number of aircraft.(3) The Urban Group, the cities and their inhabitants, in  order to demoralize the latter and cause them to revolt.(4) The Sources of Energy Group, coal and oil. Upon the  first the German economy was powered, and without the 1  The Second World War,  Vol. II, pp. 405-6.*  Ibid., Vol. IV, pp. 494-5.THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 8 1  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 285 --- 2 8 2 THE CONDUCT OF WAR second the fighting forces could not function. Although coal­fields are difficult to destroy by air attack, all that is needed  in order to paralyse them is to keep the railways leading to  and from them under bombardment.(5) The Transportation Group, mainly railways which, if rendered inoperative, would paralyse Germany as a whole.Of these groups the last two were by far the most important; nevertheless, it was only during the final twelve months of the war that they became the dominant targets. Instead of con­centrating on them, between May 1940 and May 1944, they w