ir militias were called out; Federal forts and arsenals in the Southern States were occupied, and, on 4th February 1861, a provisional government, known as the Confederate States of America, with Jefferson Davis (1808-1889) as president, was set up at Montgomery, Alabama.At length, on 12th April, the tension could no longer bear the strain. Contrary to instructions, in the morning twilight, and when none could see clearly what that historic day por­tended, the Confederates in Charleston bombarded Fort Sumter, and the thunder of their guns announced that the argument of a generation should be decided by the ordeal of war. A war, not between two antagonistic political parties, but a struggle to the death between two societies, each championing a different civilization. Or, as Stephen Benet concisely depicts it: The pastoral rebellion of the earth Against machines ,  against the Age of Steam .3 1  Cited in The Living Lincoln , edit. M. Angle and Earl Schenck Miers  (1955), p. 212.*  Between 17th April and 20th May, Virginia (less the Western half,  which in 1863 became the State of West Virginia), Arkansas, Tennessee  and North Carolina joined the Confederacy.8  John Brown's Body  (English edition, 1929), p. 375.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 102 --- THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR 1 8 6 1 - 1 8 6 5  99 2 •  The Character of the Civil War Because its aim was all-embracing, the war was to be absolute in character: Was the Union to be dissolved, or was it to be maintained? If the latter, then, either the Southern States must unconditionally submit to the Northern, or the Northern must unconditionally subdue the Southern. Therefore, because the South refused to submit, for the North it was to be a war in which there could be no compromise.Like the total wars of the twentieth century, it was pre­ceded by years of violent propaganda, which long before the war had obliterated all sense of moderation, and had awakened in the contending parties the primitive spirit of tribal f