ecause, as Lewis Mumford points out: ‘An army is a body of pure consumers . . .  it tends to reduce toward zero the gap in time between profitable production and profitable replacement. . . .  Quantity production must rely for its success upon quantity consumption; and nothing ensures replacement like organized destruction.’1Lastly, in 1939, came the Second World War; there were many dead but no unemployed; consumption put the strain on production, and the urge to destroy led to a cataract of lethal inventions. The most outstanding were the development of atomic energy as a new source of power, and the intro- 1  Technics and Civilization , pp. 93-94.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 316 --- THE PROBLEM OF PEACE 3 1 3 duction of electronically controlled devices out of which emerged the techniques of automation. The purpose of the latter is progressively to substitute machinery for the human brain, as the purpose of W att’s steam engine and Daimler’s internal combustion motor was to substitute machinery for human and animal muscle. With automation and nuclear energy the Industrial Revolution entered its third phase.Nevertheless, when in 1945 the fighting ended with the explosion of the first atomic bomb, the problem of peace remained unsolved, and the state of wardom continued. Therefore the question arises, will the industrial war society of today lead to an industrial peace society tomorrow? 2 * Impact of Nuclear Energy on War The conversion of nuclear energy into an explosive has been compared with the discovery of gunpowder, and the con­clusion drawn is that, although in its day the latter was as violently anathematized as the former is now, it was not re­jected; therefore nuclear explosives have come to stay. Although this is logical, because the ‘know-how’  of a new scientific process cannot be deleted, it should be accepted with an important reservation. It is that, directly the political factor is introduced, in all wars, except those of the most primit