e ‘have-nots’ to  appropriate the wealth of the ‘haves’; in fact, it is part and  parcel of the law of animal life. The bear robs the hive and  the wolf the fold, and when ‘nature red in tooth and claw’ is  stretched into its human dimension, there is nothing irrational  in Marx’s theory that, granted the power, one social class  should devour another. But what is irrational is, to assume  that by robbing the hive the bear will assume the industry of  the bee, or by robbing the fold the wolf will become as pacific  as the sheep. It is astonishing that a man of Marx’s high  intelligence could have believed in ritualistic cannibalism on  the social plane; that by wresting the forces of production  from the bourgeoisie and centralizing them in the hands of  the proletariat, the proletariat would automatically acquire 1  For Tukhachevski’s estimate of this battle see Pilsudski’s VA nnie  1920  (1929), p. 255.*  Cited by T. A. Taracouzio in War and Peace in Soviet Diplomacy  (1940), p. 101. It is of interest to note that the Treaty of Versailles was  branded by Lenin as a 'hundred times more humiliating and rapacious  than our Brest Peace’ (ibid., p. 179).  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 200 --- the skills of the ruling class. And it is equally astonishing that  a man of Lenin’s mental calibre could have attempted to put  this magic into practice.As we have seen, after twenty years of profound study of  Marx, Lenin came to the conclusion that it was possible ‘over­night5  to substitute for what he called ‘the official grandeur of  state officials5  the simple functions of workmen and managers;  functions ‘fully within the capacity of the city dweller5 , and  ‘operations which any literate person can perform.5‘  “The proletariat organized as the governing class5 5 ,5  writes  V. L. Borin, ‘is just an irresponsible phrase, a piece of nonsense  uttered by Marx . . .  an illusionary future lacking a single grain  of reality.’1  Not only is the proletariat in every lan