gence of a class of permanent wage- earners, the proletariat of the Socialist theorists. Permanent wage-earners were known in the domestic system, but as indi­viduals and not as a class. They were not herded together; they could chat, sing and whistle as they liked, and because they were their own masters they were not badgered by foremen. Although the wages they earned were as low as those of the industrial workers, and their hours of work frequently longer, they were free human beings who possessed status, however humble, in the society of their day. While they belonged to a scattered fraternity, which prevented them from becoming class-conscious, the industrial workers were herded into the new mill villages and factory towns, which were entirely divorced from the ameliorating influence of any form of culture. They were condemned to live in insanitary houses amid sordid surroundings; their round of life was one of unremitting toil; their work was repetitive and monotonous, and they were subject to strict and frequently harsh factory discipline.In the poverty of the worker lay one of the ‘contradictions’  of the capitalist system of that day. Mass production demands as its complement mass consumption, which in its turn demands sufficiency of purchasing power. The less money 1  The Autobiography of a Seaman  (edition 1890), p. 450.*  Cited in War and Human Progress , John U. Nef (1950), p. 290.INFLUENCES OF THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 79  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 83 --- 80 THE CONDUCT OF WAR there is in circulation the less can be bought, and as the worker’s wage was barely sufficient to keep him and his family alive, he was excluded from the market. Therefore, if the home market were to be enlarged, higher wages would have to be paid.But in the early days of industrialization it was the foreign market that came first, and the competition between the factory owners was so violent that, in order to survive, they had to plough back the greater part of their