e one or the other would end the present disintegrated condition of Ger­  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 118 --- many . . . and found in the centre of Europe a united State, which would be equal or superior in power and influence to any of its neighbours.‘Among the great Powers, England necessarily required a strong ally upon the Continent. It wouid find none which would better correspond to all its interests than a united Germany, which can never claim the command of the sea. . . . Yet it is probable that England, clinging to the old order, would take the side of the party attacked in order to prevent a political remodelling of Europe, of which it must be admitted that the far-reaching consequences cannot in all their bearings be foreseen.. .. France least of all can wish . . .  for an empire of the German nation, comprising 70,000,000 inhabitants, but from the conflict itself may hope for the very greatest ad­vantages -  the acquisition of Belgium, of the Rhenish Province, and perhaps of Holland; indeed, these advantages may be looked for almost with certainty if Prussia’s principal forces are held fast upon the Elbe and Oder.. . .’Russia, he continues, would probably take Prussia’s side in order to gain Constantinople, which can only be prevented by Austria, and by none of the Maritime Powers.‘But for Prussia the help of Russia has always taken the two-fold disadvantage that it comes too late, and is too powerful. . .. The might of the Russian army will arrive at our frontier when we shall either have conquered, and there­fore no longer require help, or shall have been defeated, and must pay dear for it with provinces. For Russia, if she comes in at the end of the campaign with a fresh army of 300,000 men is mistress of the situation, and has the chief share in deciding the limits up to which we may make the most of our success, or must submit to our misfortune.’1This memoir is a masterpiece of logical reasoning, which during the following six years, as th