ign Secretary he urged: ‘Merely harping on “unconditional sur­render” with no prospect of m ercy. . .  may well lead to no surrender  at all’ (The Second World War , Vol. V, p. 91).THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 2 8 7  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 291 --- 2 8 8 THE CONDUCT OF WAR origin,1  its concepts, as Sherwood points out, indicate ‘the  policy which guided the making of decisions at Teheran  and...  at Yalta.’The following are the paragraphs cited by Sherwood:‘Russia’s post-war position in Europe will be a dominant  one. With Germany crushed, there is no power in Europe to  oppose her tremendous military forces. It is true that Great  Britain is building up a position in the Mediterranean vis-a-vis  Russia that she may find useful in balancing power in Europe.  However, even here she may not be able to oppose Russia  unless she is otherwise supported.‘The conclusions from the foregoing are obvious. Since  Russia is the decisive factor in the war, she must be given  every assistance and every effort must be made to obtain her  friendship. Likewise, since without question she will dominate  Europe on the defeat of the Axis, it is even more essential to  develop and maintain the most friendly relations with Russia. ‘  Finally, the most important factor the United States has to  consider in relation to Russia is the prosecution of the war in  The Pacific.  With Russia as an ally in the war against Japan,  the war can be terminated in less time and at less expense in  life and resources than if the reverse were the case. Should the  war in the Pacific have to be carried on with an unfriendly or  a negative attitude on the part of Russia, the difficulties will  be immeasurably increased and operations might become  abortive.’8Wherever these ideas came from, they closely agreed with  the President’s ‘hunch’. They suggest a policy of ultra­appeasement. Not of two ill-prepared Powers faced with a  better prepared one, as at Munich, but of the two greatest  industr