that it is able, in order to protect its interests, to launch armies into war” (von Moltke). Who was responsible for the Boer War? Certainly not the Queen of England, but the merchants of the City.’‘Such are the origins of modern war. Here is its moral: you must henceforth go to the very limit to find the aim of war. Since the vanquished party now never yields before it has been deprived of all means of reply, what you have to aim at is the destruction of those very means of reply. . . .  It may be stated then, that such features as war already possessed at the beginning of the nineteenth century are still more marked at the end of the century: a national war; a war of numbers; a war violent and at quick march.’What will this war of numbers and violence be like? Foch’s answer is: it will be Napoleonic; therefore ‘it is to the theory of decision by arms  that war is now wholly returning; one can now apply no other. Instead of condemning Bonaparte’s battles as acts less civilized than those of his predecessors, this theory considers them as the only efficient means; it seeks to repeat them by seeking the same sources of action as he had’  (p. 42).Both sides will take up arms ‘for an idea, a principle -  aMOLTKE, FOCH, AND BLOCH 125  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 129 --- 126 THE CONDUCT OF WAR change of tariff, for instance: no matter what the end so that it be a policy to be attained’, and both will ‘back his political and financial theories by force.’  The enemy ‘will only renounce those theories when he has been deprived of the means of defending them. He will only confess himself beaten when he is no longer able to fight; that is, when his army shall have been materially and morally destroyed. Therefore modern war can only consider those arguments which lead to the destruc­tion of that army: namely battle , overthrow by force.9  What does this demand? ‘To seek out the enemy’s armies -  the centre of the adversary’s power -  in order to beat and destroy them