ked  by strong mass-suggestion, kept in close touch with the military 1  British Propaganda at Home and in the United States from 1914 to  1917,  James Duane Squires (1935), pp. 67-68. In the Appendix is listed  277 publications and books of British propaganda sent to the United  States between the above dates.*  The growth of the American Republic  (1942), Vol. II, p. 479.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 184 --- situation, and was unscrupulous as to the means it used. . . .  In the last stages of the war, and quite openly from the begin­ning of 1918 onwards, propaganda worked ever more clearly for the social revolution, side by side with the political revo­lution. The war was painted as being waged by the upper ten thousand at the expense of the workers, arid the victory of Germany as the workers’  misfortune. . . .  In the neutral countries we were subjected to a sort of moral blockade. . . . We lost all credit, while that of the enemy rose immeasurably. . . .  The express aim of the American and English propaganda became more and more the achievement of an internal revo­lution in Germany.’1When Ludendorff mentions that from the beginning of 1918 Allied propaganda worked for a social revolution, clearly he had President Wilson’s ‘Fourteen Points’  in mind, which were announced by him on 8th January.2  A month later the President further declared: that there were to be no annexa­tions, no contributions, and no punitive damages. Self- determination was to be accepted as an imperative principle, and every territorial settlement was to be made in the interest and for the benefit of the people concerned.Although the Fourteen Points were not meant to be pro­paganda, actually they were propaganda of an astute kind.  They caught the imagination of a war weary world, and pre­sented Germany with the opportunity to end the war by a  negotiated peace. Though, at the time, the Kaiser and his  advisers refused to consider them, they sank deep into the  hearts of the Germ