0 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 1 7 7 reality. . . . The 8th of August put the decline of [our] fighting power beyond all doubt. . . .  I became convinced that we were now without that safe foundation for the plans of G.H.Q., on which I had hitherto been able to build, at least so far as this is possible in war. Leadership now assumed, as I then stated, the character of an irresponsible game of chance, a thing I have always considered fatal. The fate of the German people was for me too high a stake. The war must be ended.’1 6 • Collapse on the Inner Fronts Although concentrated gas bombardments and massed tank assaults proved that an enemy’s entrenched front could be broken, they did no more than unlock the gate of the stale­mate. To reinstate full mobility demanded that rapid pene­tration be followed by rapid exploitation, not by cavalry -  the prevalent idea -  but by tank forces, which could be supplied by cross-country transport -  that is, by vehicles mounted on caterpillar tracks. In 1918 they did not exist; therefore full mobility could not be regained, and the result was, as Bloch had foreseen, the war was brought to an end, not by fighting, but by famine and revolution.Besides the ever-increasing exhaustion due to the length of the war, the two most important factors accountable for the collapse of the Central Powers were the British blockade and the skilful use made by the British Government of propaganda: the one struck at the vitals of the enemy, and the other under­mined his moral endurance.Already by the spring of 1917 all belligerents were so war weary that the contagion of the March Revolution in Russia swept westward like wildfire. The mutinies in the French army were largely accountable to it;2  German troops in Russia became infected; in Italy it contributed to the disaster of Caporetto, when 400,000 soldiers abandoned the battlefield; and, as early as 26th May, in a letter to Sir Douglas Haig, Sir William Robertson wrote: T am afraid there is no