which the cloud-cuckoo land of President Roosevelt’s ‘Great Design’  was substituted for a well-reasoned grand strategical policy. Yet, strange to relate, at about the same time a Yale professor, Nicholas J. Spykman, set down in black and white what that policy should be:‘If the foreign policy of a state is to be practical’, he pointed out, ‘it should be designed not in terms of some dream world but in terms of the realities of international relations in terms of power politics.’  He urged that the two objectives of United States policy should be predominance in the New World, and a balance of power in the Old, and because this balance had been upset on the opposite shores of the Atlantic and Pacific, 1  For the report in full see Stolper, Appendix E, pp. 800-11.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 312 --- the war aim of the United States should be to restore it. This, he wrote, did not demand the annihilation of Germany and Japan, lest Europe and the Far East be opened to domination by Russia. ‘A Russian State from the Urals to the North Sea’, he said, ‘can be no great improvement over a German State from the North Sea to the Urals.’  The same reasoning applied to the Far East, and he wrote: ‘The danger of another Japanese conquest of Asia must be removed, but does not inevitably mean the elimination of the military strength of Japan and the surrender of the Western Pacific to China or Russia.’1  The crucial British twin errors were of timing and aim. In their turn, they have been made crystal clear by a Cambridge professor, Herbert Butterfield.‘There is a very good historical precedent’, he writes, ‘for a thesis, which belongs to the cream of diplomatic tradition in better times. . . .  It is the thesis that if two rival giants are offering an alternate threat to the existing order of things on the continent, and if you are unwilling to let the rascals fight it out by themselves, choose carefully the time of your inter­vention in their struggle and see that you