e second, it establishes an anarchy, and how­ever fervently the people may support the revolutionary ideals, anarchy is the one thing they will not for long tolerate, and when it prevails they readily look for the man who will deliver them from it. When he appears, the normal sequel is for the energy generated by the anarchy to be directed outwardly in the form of a foreign war. This, in its turn, consolidates the people and normally leads to the establishment of a coercive regime which, with full military backing, takes the place of the original government.Ten years before the storming of the Bastille in 1789, Guibert prophetically had written:‘A man will arise, perhaps one who hitherto was lost in the obscurity of the crowd; a man who has not made his name either by speech or writing; a man who in silence has meditated; a man who perhaps did not know his own talents, who can only become aware of them when called upon to exercise them; one who has studied very little. That man will seize hold of opinions, of opportunity, of fortune, and will say to the great man of theories what the practical architect, who addressed the Athenians, said to the oratorical architect: “All that my rival tells you, I will carry out.” ’2 1  As Napoleon says: ‘Without an Arm y. . .  there is neither political  independence nor civil liberty’ (Correspondance de Napoldon Ier  (1858-  1869), III, No. 1800).*  Oeuvres de Guibert  (1803), Vol. IV, p. 74. 42  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 46 --- NAPOLEONIC WARFARE 43 Such a man was Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821) who, on the 13th of Vendemaire , Year 4 (5th October 1795), with his ‘whiff of grapeshot’  became apparent to all Paris. ‘There was an eye to see in this man, a soul to dare and do. He rose naturally to be the King. All men saw that he was such.’1  He was the supreme egoist and architect, the entirely isolated and self-centred man who relied on himself alone and centralized everything. Meneval says of him: ‘He took not only the