y but could not go into action immediately. That is intellectual childishness and not the serious tactics of a revolutionary class.’2 1  Selected Works , Vol. II, pp. 574-5.*  Ibid., Vol. II, pp. 620-1.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 214 --- The policy outlined in this thesis was adopted at the Second Comintern Congress, held in July-August 1920, and it was agreed that, in order to capture the bourgeois governments, it was essential to create a proletarian class of politicians to distract, corrupt, and pervert them by Trojan-horse tactics. The Congress also confirmed the policy in vogue of Communist workers infiltrating the trade unions, with the object of gaining control of them. The tactics to be adopted by the cells were, first to gain the confidence of the workers by improving their lot, and, when it had been won, to create confusion by aggra­vating existent grievances and fomenting new ones. These agents were to be instructed to attach no importance to collec­tive agreements between employers and employed, to work in the dark like wood worms, and gradually eat away the fabric of factory discipline.In addition, and of equal importance, crypto-Communist  units, composed of non-party members, were to be recruited  to infiltrate every kind of bourgeois organization as well as  create associations, clubs, debating societies, etc., and gradu­ally saturate them with Marxism. Today -  forty years after  the Second Congress was held-these organisms of conspiritorial  corruption proliferate in every country in the world, and in  Great Britain alone the Labour Party has proscribed over  forty of them. Their slogans are liberty, free speech, peace,  disarmament, colonialism, the colour-bar, world-brotherhood,  and anything which will stir up popular emotionalism and  undermine national discipline and social order.With the establishment of the Third International, Lenin  completed his revolutionary organization. 4 •  Peace as an Instrument of Revolution A fundamenta