uced quick-firing gun had been demonstrated, they might have prevented the problem arising, as long as entrenchments were no more than shallow lines of field works -  this will become apparent in the following Section. But as things stood in the autumn of 1914, they had neither sufficient guns nor sufficient shells to blast a gap, nor had they thought out the tactics of penetration.2  They had failed to fathom the power of quick-firing artillery, and had overlooked that munition supply is based on industrial pro­duction.As regards this latter oversight, the statesmen were even more to blame; for instance, in January 1914, Mr Lloyd George had publicly derided the possibility of war, and had urged that the season ‘was the most favourable moment for twenty 1  op* cit. p. 280. ‘The enemy’, writes Private Frank Richards, ‘rose  up and started to advance. They were stopped at once: with the parapet  as a rest for our rifles it was impossible to miss. The attack was over  before it had hardly commenced. . .  ten men holding a trench could  easily stop fifty who were trying to take it’ (Old Soldiers Never Die  (1933), p. 36).*  Shortly before the outbreak of World War I, and when a student  at the Camberley Staff College, the author discussed this problem in a  paper entitled The Tactics of Penetration . Subsequently it was published  in the November 1914 number of the Journal of the Boyal United Service  Institution .  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 164 --- THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR I 161 years’  to cut down expenditure on armaments.1  So it came about that, before the war was a month old, because all belligerents had grossly underestimated the material demands of war, the supply of artillery ammunition began to fail, and the consequence was that all attempts to penetrate the Western Front ended in costly failure.Exasperated by these unprofitable assaults, and ignorant of tactical considerations, the allied statesmen accused the soldiers of lack of imagination,2  and