eople would not be compelled to limit its fighting by financial calculations. One would see this people subjugate its neigh­bours, and overthrow our feeble constitutions, like the north wind bends the frail reeds.’1Twelve years earlier still -  that is, in 1762 -  the typhoon which was to overwhelm an epoch, and today is still bending the ‘frail reeds’, in embryo lay in the pages of Jean Jacques Rousseau’s (1712-1778) The Social Contract.  It was to be named ‘  e mocracy’, the basis of which -  that all men are equal -  was also the basis of Christianity; and although, since times im­memorial, moralists and philosophers had emphasised it, and never more so than during the first half of the eighteenth century, it was not until Rousseau’s glowing phrase -  ‘Man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains’  -  lit the fuse of the bomb of the Age of Reason that an explosion became inevitable.In his earlier work, Discourse on the Origin of Inequality , published in 1753, Rousseau held that in the state of nature man had been a noble savage.2  Now, in his Social Contract , he exalted him to the position of an abstract being unrelated to place, time and circumstances. He opens his argument by ask­ing the question: Why is it that man who is born free is every­where enslaved? His answer is: Because the only legitimate government by natural (divine) right is the rule of the popular majority. The Contract, he writes, was: ‘. . . each of us puts in common his person and his whole power under the supreme direction of the general w ill. . . each giving himself to all, gives himself to nobody’;3  and should an individual refuse to do so, he must be forced by the majority to obey the general will, or, as he says, ‘forced to be free’. By creating the myth that the sovereign will of the people is always right he endowed 1  Oeuvres Militaires de Guibert  (1803), Vol. I, p. 16.2  In an after-dinner conversation with Roederer, on 11th January 1803,  Bonaparte said: ‘I have been especia