Their success was complete, and not only was the need to armour ships proved beyond doubt, but also that the introduction of armour would necessitate the introduction of more powerful ordnance. This led to the general adoption of rifled cannon, and soon after the war to the construction by France and Great Britain of the first two armoured warships, La Gloire  and the Warrior .The first locomotive was built by Richard Trevithick, an English engineer, in 1801; it was designed to work on colliery tramways, and did so with great success. In 1812 one of his locomotives was at work at the Wylan colliery, Newcastle, and George Stephenson (1781-1848), who at the time was engine-wright at the Killingworth colliery, was so impressed with it that he was authorized to construct a ‘travelling engine’  for a tramroad between the colliery and the shipping port. This he did, and it proved so profitable that he succeeded in persuading the projectors of the Stockton and Darlington rail­way, who contemplated using horses to draw their wagons, to turn to steam traction. They adopted his proposal, and on 27th September 1825, the first true railway came into exist­ence. No other development of the Industrial Revolution had so profound an influence on the future of peace and war.Although the locomotive was wholly of British origin, it is no coincidence that the nation which produced Clausewitz was the first to grasp the importance of the railway in war. Even before a rail had been laid in Prussia, civil thought turned to the military importance of railways. In 1833, F. W. Harkort pointed out that a railway between Cologne and Minden and another between Mainz and Wesel would add enormously to the defence of the Rhineland; and C. E. Ponitz urged the general building of railways, in order to protect Prussia against France, Austria and Russia. Simultaneously, Friedrich List (1789-1846), an economist of unique genius, pointed out that, from the position of a secondary military power, whose we