f examining my own experience, and I must admit that in Hitler’s company I have again and again come under a spell which I was only later able to shake off, a sort of hypnosis. He is, indeed, a remarkable man. It leads nowhere to depreciate him and speak mockingly of him. He is simply a sort of great medicine-man. He is literally that, in the full sense of the term. We have gone back so far toward the savage state that the medicine-man has become king amongst us.’1This rings true. Hitler was the product of the savagery of his age; he fitted it like a glove the hand. In this lay that inescapable power which made him the enchanter of the German people. 3 • Hitler's Foreign Policy The principles of National Socialism are chaotically scattered throughout Mein Kampf;  a work of no literary merit, nor the empty babblings of a lunatic, as it has frequently been called. It is an apocalypse, a book of revelations, in which Hitler’s conscious and sub-conscious aspirations are poured forth. Although in his subsequent speeches2  he modified it in places, when it is borne in mind that it was dictated in the mid­twenties, at a time when few could see further than one move ahead, notwithstanding it is a blueprint not only of what he intended to do years before he attained power, but what, in spite of the chaos of the times, he actually did.While in Marxism the fundamental principle is economic determinism through the struggle of classes, in National Socialism it is biological determinism through the struggle of races. Hitler was a Darwinian, to him ‘the eternal laws of life. . . are and will remain those of a ceaseless struggle for existence’  (p. 554).3  ‘He who would live must fight. He who does not wish to fight in this world, where permanent struggle is the law of life, has not the right to exist’  (p. 242). 1  Hitler Speaks,  p. 254.2  See Speeches of Adolf Hitler 1922-1939,  edited by Norman H.  Baynes (1942), and Hitler's Words, (Speeches, 1922-1943),  edited by  (Jordon W.