ly, there can be ‘no other reality’1  in war than ‘the overthrow of the enemy’, almost everywhere we find that this does not happen-w hy? We need not follow his involved answer, because the common-sense reply is, that one side or the other gives up fighting when it has had enough of it. But this is far 1  On this question he refers the reader to Chapter XVI of Book III*  ‘On the Suspension of the Act of Warfare’, in which the most exquisite  philosophical nonsense is to be found -  such as ‘ . .. a suspension in the  act of Warfare, strictly speaking, is in contradiction with the nature of  the thing; because two Armies, being two incompatible elements, should  destroy one another unremittingly.. . .  What would be said of two  wrestlers who remained clasped round each other for hours without  making a movement?’ (I, p. 225.)  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 66 --- THE THEORIES OF CLAUSEWITZ 63 too simple an answer for the philosophical Clausewitz, who goes on to ask: As this is undoubtedly so, is the absolute notion of war actually found in reality? His answer is ‘yes’, because we have ‘seen real warfare make its appearance in .. •  absolute completeness . . .  in our own time. After a short intro­duction performed by the French Revolution’, he continues, ‘the impetuous Buonaparte quickly brought it to this point. Under him it was carried on without slackening for a moment until the enemy was prostrated’  (III, p. 81).1Next, Clausewitz asks: are we satisfied with this? Should war be of this kind, or of some other kind? and after another lengthy argument, which with profit may be skipped, the answer is: that in the theory of war as a whole ‘the foremost place [must be given] to the absolute form of War’, and ‘that whoever wishes to learn something from theory’, should ‘accustom himself never to lose sight of it, to regard it as the natural measure of all his hopes and fears, in order to approach it where he can , or where he must'  (III, p. 82). 4 •  W ar as a