l age -  if it  had one -  was the barbarian invasions, whose ‘productive forces’ were  conquest and robbery.4  ‘The proletariat will use its political supremacy to wrest, by degrees,  all capital from the bourgeoisie, to centralize all instruments of pro­duction in the hands of the State, i.e., of the proletariat organized as the  ruling class; and to increase the total of productive forces as rapidly as  possible’  (The Communist Manifesto , p. 34).6  This is the opposite of what has occurred since 1848.INFLUENCES OF THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 83  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 87 --- 84 THE CONDUCT OF WAR a classless and stateless society will be established. But no­where does he seek to prove, as R. N. Carew Hunt points out, ‘that the worker is, in fact, fitted for the role assigned him; nor does it occur to him that the negation of Capitalism may lead to the emergence of a wholly new class which is strictly speaking neither capitalist nor proletariat.’1  Marx’s insistence that the history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles vitiated the dialectics of his intellectual followers -  the Marxist intelligentsia -  and led them to attri­bute to the proletariat qualities which, at best, were confined to themselves.On this contradiction in Marx’s dialectic Peter F. Drucker is highly illuminating:‘Perhaps the greatest fallacy of our age’, he writes, ‘is the myth of the masses which glorifies the amorphous, societyless, disintegrated crowd. Actually the masses are a product of social decomposition and rank poison.’  The danger does not lie in their revolt, because revolt is ‘still a form of partici­pation in social life, if only a protest... . The danger of the masses lies precisely in this inability to participate. . . . Since they have no social status and function, society to them is nothing but a demoniac, irrational, incomprehensible threat . .. any legitimate authority appears to them as tyrannical and arbitrary. They are theref