‘Plan 1919’.1  Its salient points were:The fighting power of an army lies in its organization, which can be destroyed either by wearing it down or by rendering it inoperative. The first comprises killing, wounding, and captur­ing the enemy’s soldiers -  body warfare; the second in render­ing inoperative his power of command -  brain warfare. To take a single man as an example; the first method may be compared with a succession of wounds which will eventually result in his bleeding to death; the second -  a shot through the brain.The brains of an army are its Staff -  Army, Corps and Divisional Headquarters. Could they suddenly be removed from an extensive sector of the German front, the collapse of the personnel they control will be little more than a matter of hours.As our present theory is to destroy personnel, our new theory should be to destroy command. Not after the enemy’s personnel has been disorganized, but before it has been attacked, so that it may be found in a state of disorganization when attacked.The means proposed were a sudden eruption of squadrons of fast-moving tanks,2  which unheralded would proceed to the various enemy headquarters,3  and either round them up or scatter them. Meanwhile every available bombing machine was to concentrate on the supply and road centres. Only after these operations had been given time to mature was the enemy’s front to be attacked in the normal way, and directly penetration was effected, pursuit was to follow. 1  For the plan in full, see Memoirs of an Unconventional Soldier,  Major-  General J. F. C. Fuller (1936), pp. 321-36.2  The specifications of this tank were: maximum speed 20 miles an  hour; circuit 150 to 200 miles; and ability to span a 14-foot gap. Later  it was built and known as the Medium D Tank. The first model was  produced in 1919, but failed to come up to specifications.8  At the time there were nine German Army Headquarters on the  Western Front, on an average distance of eighteen miles from the fr