d not papal authority been drastically curtailed by the Reformation. Previously to it, the anointed king was looked upon as the accredited vicar of God for all secular purposes within his realm; subsequently to it, in Protestant States he became so for religious purposes also, and in Catholic countries monarchs ceased to admit that their coronation by an arch­bishop was anything other than the consecration of their titles. When in 1661 Louis XIV took over personal rule in France he assumed the power and rights of an absolute monarch. His theory of life was theocratic; as God’s vice-regent he was possessed of divine infallibility, and he and his court became the model copied by all continental kingdoms. In brief, politi­cally a return was made to the rule of the Italian despots.There was, however, one great difference between the fifteenth century despots and the seventeenth and eighteenth century kings -  a military one. While the power of the former resided in their professional mercenaries, the latter based their power on professional standing armies, and although the origin of the standing army is to be traced back to the formation of the compagnies de Vordonnance du roi  by Charles VII of France in 1445-1448, it was not until the old Spanish army was, in 1643, defeated at Rocroi by the Great Conde, that the French army -  soon to be reorganized by L ouvois-set the fashion for all standing armies for over a century. Unlike the earlier type, these new standing armies were permanently kept on a war foot­ing, and were exclusively at the disposal of their respective sove­reigns. Of them, in his International Law , Oppenheim writes:\  .. the evolution of the laws and usages of war could not have taken place at all, but for the institution of standing arm ies.. . .  The humanizing of the practice of war would have been impossible without [their] discipline; . . . and without them the important distinction between members of armed forces and private individuals could no