tary operations should be directed. In brief, the ideal of the sum total of war, which in his mind he related to Kant’s Ding-an-sich  (‘Thing-in-itself). Whether this was so or not, it is clear that he looked upon his absolute concept of war as a yard-stick with which to measure all military activities. Again and again he resorts to it, gets com­pletely confused with its measurements, and then abandons them for common sense. The reader of On War  should bear this peculiarity in mind, otherwise he is likely to become as confused as Clausewitz often was, worse -  misled.As will be reverted to at the close of this chapter, in spite of his twenty years’  experience of Napoleonic warfare, Clause­witz had but a vague understanding of it. Nevertheless, because of Napoleon’s offensive principle, he foisted on to him his absolute concept, and thereby, not only misled many of his future students, but indirectly was largely responsible for the vast extension of unlimited warfare in the twentieth century. On the other hand, his penetrating analysis of the relationship of war and policy has never been excelled, and is even more 1  According to Colonel J. J. Graham (the English translator of On War)  Clausewitz was a pupil of Kiesewitter, who indoctrinated him in  the philosophy of Kant ‘in homoeopathic doses’ (On War , Vol. I,  p. xxxvii).  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 64 --- THE THEORIES OF CLAUSEWITZ 61 important today than when first expounded. Strange to relate, its lack of appreciation was an even more potent factor in the extension of unlimited war than his absolute concept.Because of this, and because the bulk of On War  is only remotely related to the higher conduct of war, and is now obsolete, the intention in this chapter is to restrict observa­tions on Clausewitz’s theories to those only which have influenced wars subsequent to his day. 2 •  What is War? Clausewitz likens war ‘to a duel on an extensive scale’ (I, p. I),1  and compares it with a struggle betwe