ave warheads of far greater power than the bombs that destroyed Hiroshima or Nagasaki.’2  Therefore, whatever may be their ulterior mo­tives, the Russians are logical when they insist that there is no such thing as a limited nuclear war, and that the employment of tactical nuclear weapons will inevitably lead to an all-out nuclear attack.3  Therefore it follows, when both sides are equipped with them, that they will become deterrents on the tactical level, which reduces the idea of fighting a limited nuclear war to an absurdity. Thus it comes about that the stalemate is doubly assured, and except for wars other than 1  Op. cit., p. 141.2  ‘Future Trends in Warfare’, Journal of the Royal United Service  Institution  (February 1960), Vol. CV, p. 8.2  Kissinger (op. cit., p. 176) points out, there are certain nuclear  weapons which are difficult to discard, such as atomic warheads for  anti-aircraft missiles.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 320 --- THE PROBLEM O h ' PEACE 3 1 7 those which directly involve the two great nuclear camps, such as wars by proxy or police operations, it looks as if physical warfare, either as an instrument of policy or of annihilation, is speeding toward the dustbin of obsolete things, to keep com­pany with witchcraft, cannibalism, and other outgrown social institutions.In Chapter VII we have seen that, as long ago as the end of the last century, Bloch, the Warsaw banker, glimpsed this. He predicted that, because of its deadliness, the then recently introduced magazine rifle would make wars so unprofitable as to be impossible to contemplate. This might have become true had man not been an irrational creature. Now the intro­duction of nuclear weapons is coaxing him into a rational frame of mind,1  and if he must continue to fight, he will have to seek his battlefields in spheres of conflict other than in the physical. With reference to this, the reader is asked to bear in mind that the stalemate problem of the First World War was not u