cease to fire until the battle was won.Throughout the war neither side succeeded in taking a position by a frontal attack, nor did either side succeed in bringing troops in close order into the firing line. ‘On both sides . . .  the tactics of the drill ground and of peace manoe­uvres were completely altered.. . .  Bayonets were never crossed in the open field, and but seldom in village or wood fights.’1The power of artillery came more and more to the fore. The French did not mass their guns, the Germans did, and notably at Gravelotte and Sedan. Sedan was the greatest artillery battle of the war; all the French attacks were brought to a standstill by gun fire, and most of them at 2,000 yards distance -  that is, far outside effective rifle range. At Sedan a French officer, who was taken prisoner, described the Prussian offensive as ‘five kilometers of artillery.’2Cavalry steadily lost ground. Only one successful charge was made, that by General von Bredow’s brigade at Vionville, and although the French were short of ammunition, the brigade lost half its horsemen. At Sedan General Gallifet 1  Tactical Deductions from the War of 1870-71 >  Lieutenant-General  A. von Boguslawski (English edition, 1872), pp. 79-80.8  Cited in Decisive Battles since Waterloo , 1815-1887 , Thomas W.  Knox (1887), p. 358.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 124 --- attempted a most gallant charge at the head of the Chasseurs  d’Afrique;  but only to suffer ‘So thorough a destruction by what may be called a single volley probably the oldest soldier now alive never witnessed.’1  Nevertheless, although the cavalry assault was no longer a practical operation of war, for protective and reconnaissance duties cavalry remained of essential value, yet for such they were indifferently employed by both sides. 2 • Marshal Ferdinand Foch When the time came to examine the causes of the defeat of the French army in the Franco-Prussian War, instead of looking for them in its all-round unpreparedness, F