which will determine the issue. If it is possible for us to occupy such a position that the enemy, for some political or military reason, or perhaps merely from national amour propre,  will decide to attack it, it seems perfectly reasonable to utilize the advantages of the defensive at first before assuming the offensive.’1The Sadowa campaign confirmed Moltke in his belief that the breech-loading rifle had made the defensive the stronger form of war, and that the decisive attack must be sought through envelopment. ‘Little success’, he wrote, ‘can be expected from a mere frontal attack, but very likely a great deal of loss. We must therefore turn towards the flanks of the enemy’s position.’2In 1866 Moltke made the fullest use of the five railways at his disposal, and he based his plan largely on those the Austrians were likely to use. In 1870 he did the same, and a study of the French railways made it clear to him that the French would almost certainly assemble their forces about Metz and Strasbourg, which meant that they would be separated by the Vosges. On this he based his plan, and to conquer space by time, he relied on the rapidity of his mobili­zation of the army, coupled with the fullest use of the railways leading to the Rhine. Of his intention he says:‘But above all the plan of war was based on the resolve to attack the enemy at once, wherever found, and keep the German forces so compact that a superior force could always be brought into the field. By whatever special means these plans were to be accomplished was left to the decision of the hour; the advance to the frontiers alone was pre-ordained in every detail.’3The French plan was a bastard edition of the Jena campaign of 1806, with the third Napoleon instead of the first in com­mand. Because the French Emperor knew that the Prussian 1  Cited in The Transformations of War,  Commandant J. Colin (1912),  p. 33.s Cited by Lieutenant-General von Caemmerer in Developments of  Strategical Science during the 19