s be decisively  defeated, the consequent supremacy of France in Western  Europe, and the expansion of Russia in south-eastern Europe,  would unhinge the balance of power on the continent, the  maintenance of which had been Britain’s traditional policy,  as much so as were the Central Powers to win the war. In the  past, she had more often than once overcome a similar diffi­culty by seeking a negotiated peace when her opponent had  been sufficiently weakened, and before her most powerful ally  could step into his shoes. Could she hope to do this again  depended, not only on her statesmanship, but also on the  statesmanship of her most powerful antagonist -  Germany. 2 •  Fate of the War Plans On 4th August 1914, had an onlooker strolled round the gaming table of war and glanced at the hands of the players, he would have laid ten to one on Germany winning the game. Nevertheless, five weeks later, when the cards had been played, all the players were strategical bankrupts. How came this about? This is an important question, because out of it emerged the subsequent conduct of the war.When the lethal gamble opened, Germany and Austria were  centrally placed between Russia in the east, France, Britain  and Belgium in the west, and Serbia in the south. Together  they could put into the field 158 infantry and cavalry  divisions to face 150 Russian, 87 French, British and Belgian,  and 12 Serbian. Therefore, numerically, the dice of war were  heavily loaded against them. But because they could operate  on interior lines, while their opponents were compelled to  operate on exterior, it was possible for them to concentrate  the bulk of their forces against any one of their adversaries, as  long as for the time being they succeeded in holding back the  others.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 158 --- This was the problem Count Alfred von Schlieffen set out to solve when, between 1891 and 1906, he was Chief of the German General Staff. Aware that the Russian mobilization w