s were grounded on the protective principle. He defines it as follows: ‘The whole art of war consists in a well reasoned and circumspect defensive, followed by rapid and audacious attack.’5 1  Corresp ., XIII, No. 10629. 1  Ibid., XII, No. 9808.8  Ibid., XXXII, p. 227. 4  Gourgaud, Vol. II, p. 32.6  Corresp ., XIII, No. 10558.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 55 --- 52 THE CONDUCT OF WAR This protective system was based on establishing in rear of his army a place de campagne , a fortress or a fortified town which could not be surprised, and in which the army magazines, park, hospitals, etc., were assembled: it was his base of opera­tions. When the army moved forward from it, the object of its protective cavalry was to conceal his plan and the movements of the army, just as the object of his exploratory cavalry -  already referred to -  was to fathom the enemy’s plan, so that he might modify his own. When forward movements could no longer be concealed by the protective cavalry curtain, as happened in the marches immediately preceding the battles of Jena and Echmuhl, secrecy was sought in rapidity of move­ment.Taken together, Napoleon’s outlook on the defensive and offensive was a common-sense one. He said: ‘Defensive warfare does not exclude the attack any more than offensive warfare excludes the defence’;1  ‘that with mediocre troops one must shift much soil’;2  by which he meant, reinforce their confidence by entrenching them. This also applied to isolated detach­ments: ‘It is a principle of war that all detached corps should entrench, and it is one of the first steps that one should take on the occupation of a position.’3  But for an army it was otherwise, and as early as August, 1793 -  that is, before he took command of the artillery at Toulon -  in his well-known political pamphlet Le Souper de Beaucaire 4  he wrote: ‘In the art of war it is an axiom that he who remains in his trenches will be beaten: experience and theory are in accord with this.’  Stati