; and for 1813, see Baron d’Odeleben’s Relation Cir - constaneiie de la Campagne de 1813 en Saxe  (French edition, 1817), Vol.  I, p. 224, etc.5  Op. cit., Vol. I, p. 155.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 58 --- NAPOLEONIC WARFARE 55 before, and that ‘As a whole, the army in this campaign was a too complicated and imperfect machine to allow of co­ordination being established . . .  the multiplicity of movements ... gave place to difficulties which all the authority of Napoleon could not always surmount.’1Napoleon’s marshals had not been brought up to command, solely to obey, they were followers and not leaders, vassal princes, many of whom had been raised in rank for dynastic, political and personal reasons. After his fall and just before he left for Elba, Napoleon told Caulaincourt that:‘He found fault with himself for having made so much use of his marshals in these latter days, since they had become too rich, too much the grands seigneurs , and had grown war- weary. Things, according to him, would have been in a much better state if he had placed good generals of division, with their batons yet to win, in command.’2  There is truth in this, but it was his system of command more so than these defects which had emasculated them. p o lic y . Throughout, his dominant adversary was England who, by subsidizing her continental allies, raised coalition after coalition against him. The struggle with her was not one of right against wrong, but between two survival values that arose out of the early Industrial Revolution. To remain pro- perous and powerful, England had to export her manufactured goods; and to become prosperous, and thereby sustain her power, France had to protect her infant industries. As Metter- nich said: ‘Everyone knew that England could not give way on this question [the maritime problem], which to her was a matter of life and death.’3  And it was because Napoleon realized this that he devised what is known as his Continental System, the closing o