tions in Virginia.3 6 * Results of the War One of the strangest things about Sherman is, that on the plinth of his statue at Washington are inscribed the noble words he once uttered: ‘The legitimate object of war is a more perfect peace.’  Yet, apparently, he could not see that plunder and arson are not legitimate means to attain it. Unfortunately, the ruthlessness he relied on was carried into the peace which followed the war.On 14th April 1865, five days after Lee’s surrender, Presi­dent Lincoln was assassinated, and the trial of the alleged conspirators was to stand as the greatest travesty of justice for eighty years, when the theme, harped on by the Assistant Judge-Advocate at the trial, was again to be exploited. The theme was: ‘The rebellion, in aid of which this conspiracy was formed and this great public crime committed, was . . . itself . . .  a criminal conspiracy and gigantic assassination.’2  There­for the entire population of the South stood condemned.Although the Civil War brought ruin to the South, and although its ills were aggravated by the vengeance of the years of reconstruction, to the North it brought victory and un­precedented prosperity.‘Never before’, write Morison and Commager, ‘had the American people exhibited greater vitality, never since has their vitality been accomplished by more reckless irresponsi­bility. To the generation that had saved the Union everything seemed possible: there were no worlds, except the worlds of the spirit, that could not be conquered. Men hurled themselves upon the continent with ruthless abandon as if to ravish it of its wealth.’3The resources of the new empire were all but inexhaustible: iron, coal, oil, labour and individual energy abounded. Inven­tions flowed from drawing boards, goods from the factories, 1  Papers of the Military Historical Society of Massachusetts  (1895),  Vol. 10, pp. 148-51.*  Why was Lincoln Murdered?,  Otto Eisenschiml (1937), p. 245.*  Op. cit., Vol. II, p. 9.  File: --- fuller_con