ing them the value of the machine gun became increasingly a p p a re n t;w h ile  cavalry faded out of the picture. The outstanding tactical lessons of the war were:(1) The failure of frontal attacks and the success of en­velopments.(2) The enormous defensive power of field entrenchments and wire entanglements.(3) The increasing deadliness of the machine gun.(4) And most marked of all, the power of quick-firing artillery. In the reports of British officers attached to the Japanese army, Colonel W. H. H. Waters says: ‘By the light of my own experiences I can see no reason why artillery should not often  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 146 --- THE ROOTS OF ARMAGEDDON 148 be the decisive factor, and it certainly was at Tellissu.’1  And Major J. M. Home writes: ‘The greatest impression made on me by all I saw is that artillery is now the decisive arm and that all other arms are auxiliary to it. The importance of artillery cannot be too strongly insisted upon, for other things being equal, the side which has the best artillery will always w in.. . .  So strongly am I convinced of the immense impor­tance of artillery that it seems almost a question for deliberate consideration whether artillery should not be largely increased even a t the expense of the other arm s.. . .‘With the extraordinary development of artillery it begins to appear as though infantry fire action cannot usefully be employed at ranges beyond 600 yards, as beyond that distance the hostile guns ought to be able to prevent infantry from using their rifles.’2 4 •  Discords and Concords From the close of the Franco-Prussian War until his dismissal in March 1890, Bismarck’s policy was to stabilize the peace Germany had won, and to assure it he set out to win the friendship of Russia, and, in order to isolate France, in 1879 he concluded with Austria a defensive treaty known as the Dual Alliance, which two years later was joined by Italy, which was outraged by the French occupation of Tunisia; the Dual