e rifle bullet and the spade which made the defensive the stronger form of war, a fact also noted by Lyman: T u t a man in a hole’, he said, ‘and a good battery on a hill behind him, and he will beat off three times his number, even if he is not a very good soldier.’2  And Frank Wilkeson wrote: ‘Before we left North Anna [May 1864] I discovered that our infantry were tired of charging earthworks. The ordinary enlisted man asserts that a good man behind an earthwork was equal to three good men outside it.’3  And it should be remembered that this was in the days of the muzzle-loading rifle.Other changes were that the cavalry charge died out, that the rifled cannon came more and more to the fore, and that the dethronement of the bayonet was complete. Of this weapon, wrote an eyewitness, General John B. Gordon: ‘The bristling points and the glitter of the bayonets were fearful to look upon as they were levelled in front of a charging line; but 1  Ibid., p. 101.2  Ibid., p. 224.3  The Soldier in Battle , or Life in the Banks of the Army of the Potomac  (1890), p. 99.THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR 1 8 6 1 - 1 8 6 5  105  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 109 --- 106 THE CONDUCT OF WAR they were rarely reddened with blood. The day of the bayonet is passed.’1  And Surgeon-Major G. Hart wrote that he saw few bayonet wounds ‘except accidental ones... I think half-a-dozen would include all the wounds of this nature I ever dressed.2The war fought by Grant and Lee, Sherman and Johnston and all the other generals was a war of rifle bullets and trenches, of slashings, abattis, and even of wire entanglements -  an obstacle the Confederates called ‘a devilish contrivance which none but a Yankee could devise’, because at Drewry’s Bluff, 0 1 116th May 1864, they had been trapped in them and ‘slaughtered like partridges.’3  It was a war of astonishing modernity, of wooden wire-bound mortars, hand and winged grenades, rockets, and many forms of booby traps. Machine guns -  Requa’s and Gatli