soluble union of the peoples of the British and French Empires.2  Three weeks later he instructed Admiral Sir James Somerville to sink the French warships at Oran and Mers-el-Kebir.3  With this ‘mournful episode’, as Churchill calls it, the panic started by the Blitzkrieg  fizzled out. 4 •  The Russian and German Inner Fronts The German invasion of France was based on a strategical gamble -  Hitler’s anticipation that, once France had been defeated, England would accept a negotiated peace. He had made no preparations to invade her, either because he had so hurriedly precipitated the outbreak of war, or, what would seem as probable, he considered a full-scale invasion an im­practicable undertaking. Therefore, instead of the Western Front having been liquidated before he turned against Russia, all he had done was to render it negative for the time being. Also, by now he was fully aware that President Roosevelt -  who throughout had been assisting Britain -  was strenuously preparing to bring the United States into the war; of this there could be no doubt whatsoever, when, on 11th March 1941, the Lend-Lease Bill was passed by Congress. It was as fateful an event in world history as the American declaration of war on 6th April 1917. Without it, Great Britain could not for long have continued at war. 1  Cited in a leaflet of The 18 B Publicity Council.a  For this fantastic scheme see The Second World War , Vol. If, pp.  183-4.8  Somerville called it a ‘beastly operation’  and ‘a lousy job’; also  ‘the biggest political blunder of modem times’  (Sunday Times , London,  7th August 1960).THE CONDUCT OF WORLD WAR II 261  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 265 --- 2 6 2 THE CONDUCT OF WAR Vis-d-vis  Russia, Hitler’s problem was one of time: could  he defeat her and establish his Lebensraum  before the United  States intervened in the war? If he could not, then of a  certainty the Western negative front would once again become  a positive front, and he would be caught betwe