he mouth with rage and yelling like canni­bals, hurl themselves at top speed upon soldiers whose courage has been excited by no passion.’2Conscription changed the basis of warfare. Hitherto soldiers had been costly, now they were cheap; battles had been avoided, now they were sought, and however heavy were the losses, they could rapidly be made good by the muster-roll. Without con­scription Napoleon’s policy of conquest would have been im­possible; in 1805, at Schonbrunn, he boasted to Metternich that he could afford to expend 30,000 men a m onth-m en were now as cheap as dirt.The armed hordes demanded a radical change in military administration and logistics. Hitherto armies had used tents; they had marched in long unbroken columns of route; had methodically concentrated before delivering battle, and had relied on supply columns, field bakeries, bread convoys, and magazines for their rations and forage. All this was either swept away or drastically modified. Tents vanished, and with them hundreds of wagons in which they were transported; instead, men bivouacked. The long, slow-moving columns of route were split up into compact divisional columns of all arms -  miniature armies; this enabled concentration to be made during battle as well as before battle. Transport columns were 1  Spreading Germs of Hate  (1981), p. 10.*  Cited in The Armed Horde , p. 91.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 39 --- 36 THE CONDUCT OF WAR cut to the bone, and compulsory requisitioning, which fre­quently meant plundering the countryside, was substituted for methodical rationing. These changes, which cut down the transport wagons and animals by thousands, added enormously to both the strategic and tactical mobility of the Revolutionary armies, and although increase in the distances of their marches and bivouacking in the open led to a higher human wastage than had the old and more comfortable system, conscription could readily make it good.Conscription had yet another and very importa