ys after it was launched, the French  offensive on the Aisne opened and failed. It cost the French187.000 casualties1  and the Germans 163,000. Nivelle was re­placed by General P6tain, and the demoralization of the French was such that, between 25th May and 10th June, fifty-four divisions mutinied.In the meantime two events changed the entire aspect of the war. On 8th March riots broke out in Petrograd; on the 11th the Imperial Guard mutinied, and the nextday revolution swept the city. On the 15th Tzar Nicholas II abdicated, and a provisional government was formed under Prince Lvov which, on the 22nd, was formally recognized by the Allied Powers. The second event was the declaration of war on Germany by the United States on 6th April.What did these events portend? Two immense blood trans­fusions for the French theatre of war. Because a nation cannot  hope to wage a successful major war when in the throes of  revolution, Germany had every right to expect that, before  the year was out, she would be able to reinforce the Western  Front with at least a million men. Also Great Britain and  France had every right to expect that, at some date in the not  too distant future, they would be reinforced by at least a  million Americans. So it came about that, because France was  in a parlous condition, the Ribot administration, which in  March had succeeded to the Briand, proposed that all offensive  operations should be deferred until American assistance  became available.Haig, Robertson, P^tain and Nivelle thought otherwise. ‘We  are all of opinion’, wrote Robertson in an official memorandum,  ‘that our object can be obtained by relentlessly attacking  with limited objectives, while making the fullest use of our  artillery. By this means we hope to gain our ends with the  minimum loss possible.’2  This policy was accepted by Mr  Lloyd George, but soon after he recanted, and reverted to a 1  The French Official History, based on Nivelle’s returns, mentions  96,128, and anothe