break, and which, through fear that the other may dare to break it, leads to both sides frantically multiplying their nuclear armaments in order indefinitely to postpone the Crack of Doom. 1  The Great Contest: Russia and the West  (1960), p. 43.2  ‘When Shrimps Learn to Whistle’, Denis Healey, InternationalAffairs  (January 1956), Vol. 32, p. 2. 3  Cited by Kissinger, op. cit., p. 6.  File: --- fuller_conduct.pdf --- Page 319 --- 3 1 6 THE CONDUCT OF WAR Because an all-out nuclear war is highly improbable, will a return be made to conventional wars -  that is, to wars in which nuclear weapons are excluded? If so, it would be no great exchange should warfare remain unlimited, as it was in the last world conflict. Therefore the heart of the problem is not to be sought in types of weapons, but in the aim which governs their use. Once again, to repeat what has been in­sisted on throughout this book, be it borne in mind that a limited war is a war fought for a clearly defined limited political object, in which expenditure of force is proportioned to the aim; therefore strategy must be subordinated to policy. For the benefit of his American kinsmen, Dr Kissinger has written:‘The prerequisite for a policy of limited war is to re-intro­duce the political element into our concept of warfare and to discard the notion that policy ends when war begins or that war can have goals distinct from those of national policy.’1This is pure Clausewitz.Earlier in this Section, the danger of introducing nuclear weapons into the tactical field has been touched upon; yet this is what has actually happened in the NATO forces, in order to compensate for Russia’s vastly superior conventional military strength, and General Sir John Cowley mentions that the tactical weapons already introduced ‘can have warheads of far greater power than the bombs that destroyed Hiroshima or Nagasaki.’2  Therefore, whatever may be their ulterior mo­tives, the Russians are logical when they insist that there is no