se of the atomic bomb, if its final trial, then in preparation, was successful. He suggested that its use be preceded by a warning, which should point out ‘the varied and overwhelming character of the force we are about to bring to bear on the islands’, and ‘the inevitability and completeness of the destruction which the full application of this force will entail.’  Further, he personally thought, ‘if we should add that we do not exclude a constitutional monarchy under her present dynasty, it would substantially add to the chance of acceptance.’2On 17th July, the Potsdam Conference assembled, and on the same day Stimson informed the President of the momen­tous news that, on the previous day, the final test of the bomb had proved an unqualified success. Thereupon Truman and Churchill, in order to obviate the casualties an invasion of Japan would entail, decided to use the bomb. ‘Now all this nightmare picture’, writes Churchill, ‘had vanished. In its place was the vision -  fair and bright it seemed -  of the end of the whole war in one or two violent shocks.. . .  Moreover, we should not need the Russians.’3He was mistaken, for Mr Stettinius informs us: ‘Even as late as the Potsdam Conference, after the first atomic bomb had been exploded. . .  the military insisted that the Soviet Union had to be brought into the Far Eastern War. At both Yalta and Potsdam the military staffs were particularly con­cerned with the Japanese troops in Manchuria. Described as the cream of the Japanese Army, this self-contained force . . .  was believed capable of prolonging the war even after the 1  Mr Churchill first mentions the bomb on 30th August 1941 ( The Second World War , Vol. I ll, p. 730), and Dr Goebbels on 21st March  1942 (The Goebbels Diaries , p. 96).*  On Active Service in Peace and War , p. 368.8  The Second World Warf  Vol. VI, pp. 552-3. On p. 553 Churchill  states the he has never doubted that Truman was right to use the bomb,  and six pages on he writes: Japan's ‘de