S. could deliver. By early 1972, the vast majority of American troops had already departed. Furthermore, the U.S. had only 76 jet fighter-bombers based in South Vietnam.*'' To Hanoi, the skeletal force probably seemed inadequate to stop the NVA. The Easter Offensive By fall o f 1971, Hanoi apparently made the decision to launch a massive attack in early 1972, known as the Easter Offensive. They refused to answer Nixon’s October peace plan and by November claimed their representative was too sick to meet with Kissinger.*® In early 1972 Hanoi stalled over when talks could 268  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 281 --- resume, eventually proposing talks during April, knowing that by then the Easter Offensive would be well underway.*®*^ As always, North Vietnam’s objectives are open to some speculation. While often perceived as a do-or-die offensive, Hanoi probably did not expect to conquer all of South Vietnam.*’ Instead, Hanoi was more interested in affecting the course o f negotiations. Hanoi always believed there was a strong connection between military and diplomatic success. A successful offensive would demonstrate the failure o f Vietnamization and humiliate the U.S., especially Nixon, just before a presidential election. At the most, the U.S. would be forced to accept North Vietnam’s terms for a settlement. In the least. North Vietnam would be in possession of much more territory when a settlement was reached and Nixon would have to hasten the withdrawal o f American forces.** ^ North Vietnam’s motivations for launching the Easter Offensive are open to conjecture. Apparently, there were intense debates in Hanoi over the Easter Offensive. Some members of the Politburo argued against an offensive in 1972, wanting to wait until the U.S. had totally withdrawn by 1973. Others advocated an immediate strike. Hanoi was becoming increasingly concerned over the survivability of the VC/PRG and the Vietnamization program was reaching full swing. Another year would o