robably did not add much to the ability o f the U.S. to retake Kuwait or destroy the Republican Guard. Again, it may not be politically feasible to thoroughly degrade a state’s ability to function in order to achieve an objective. Furthermore, Warden dismisses the psychological affect o f bombing too quickly. While he accurately judges warfare to be more mechanistic than in Napoleon’s time, the essence of conflict and inter-state relations is still rests in the hands of man. This is especially important in compellent situation less than total war. 93  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 106 --- Pulverization The most glaring failure of the pulverization strategy was the stress on destroying cities. This method has been unable to achieve consistent success. Even considering the unanticipated technical limitations which restricted the amount of damage that could be inflicted before 1944, predictions of a rapid civilian collapse during massive aerial bombardment have failed to materialize. The effects have been unpredictable and often equivocal. Indeed, aerial bombings have sometimes even buttressed civilian morale.'’  Moreover, the accompanying damage to industrial and economic infrastructure targets has had less affect than anticipated; the damage The lack o f consistent significant affect on the civilian morale may have been the most surprising failure of the pulverization strategy. Populations have proven able to endure intense bombardment without "cracking". Although the reasoning behind this, especially from a psychological approach, has not been fully analyzed, some explanations have been presented. One possibility is expectancy; if the population expects heavy bombing, it can withstand more bombing than a population which did not expect attacks. Conditioning also plays a role for a population can become accustomed to frequent heavy bombings. Indeed, extremely heavy bombing is often not significantly better in affecting morale then less severe bombing as p