ce, while compellence is associated with active measures. As I am only interested in active measures, compellence is more appropriate.® Traditionally, much of the compellence/coercion literature has attempted to explain and/or predict compellence/coercion as a function of bargaining. The “  Admittedly, this is a simplification, compellence is not always active and coercion can include the active use of military force. But for my purposes in this dissertation, the intricacies o f the debate are not relevant. See Thomas Schelling, Arms and Influence. (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1966), especially 1-31 and 69-91, for a discussion of the differences between coercion and compellence. 1  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 14 --- typical casual factors are the comparative level of interests at stake, values placed on those interests, resolve, willingness to endure punishment, and the overall balance of military forces/ This dissertation will explore the dynamics of compellence, but from an unusual perspective. Instead of attempting to explain compellence success in terms of bargaining factors, I will examine the relationship between military strategy and compellent success. Compellence Clausewitz is remembered most for his observation that war is merely a political instrument. Some people find this statement to be rather repugnant; a way to excuse the brutality of war by including it in the normal, rational behavior among nations. Nevertheless, war, as practiced by the Western nation-states in the 19th and 20th centuries, is most often a political tool.*’  States initiate wars to achieve one or more objectives and, ostensibly, to improve the status quo. The desired changes typically include acquiring more territory, forcing a state to stop a particular action, or toppling an undesirable government. These are considered political objectives. Thus, the goal o f war is not just to achieve military objectives, but eventually to achieve the political goal(s) respon