nation is Eisenhower’s implied threat of using nuclear weapons convinced the Communists to break the deadlock. However, the most probable explanation is that a convergence of many political and military factors led the Communists to realize ending the war was the best action.^” The bombing o f the irrigation dams did present problems for the Communists and probably exerted some compellent leverage. For example, a drop in North Korean rice production hurt China indirectly because it would have to supply more rice to Korea while China was suffering economic and agricultural problems. Although other factors played the critical role in achieving the ceasefire, the bombing operation did contribute to reaching the armistice. First, the U.S. 491  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 504 --- proposal in late May 1953 was a compromise from earlier positions. Thus, the Communists did not concede as much as commonly thought. Most importantly, by June 1953, the Chinese and Soviet leaders apparently concluded the war was no longer in their country’s best interests. The war had been extremely costly for China, which was suffering severe economic problems and had to worry about the Nationalists.^' Moreover, one of Mao Tse-tung’s, the Chinese leader, concerns prior to intervention was U.S. bombing o f industries in China. The recent willingness of the U.S. to escalate the conflict (exemplified by the irrigation dam operation) to reach a settlement may well have convinced Mao to settle now rather than later.^^ Anyway, Mao realized China could not drive UN forces from Korea, and that its objective o f establishing China as an important international actor had been achieved. Thus, China had little incentive to continue the war, except to avoid a POW embarrassment. China may have viewed the recent U.S. proposal as the best it could get. Meanwhile, the recent death of Stalin, the Soviet leader, resulted in the Soviet government sought to reduce tensions with the West. Again, the Ko