n be hard to predict. Finally, much of the early (pre-World War II) discussion of strategic bombing emphasized breaking the opponent’s resolve. Later research in compellence focused on inflicting pain/punishment to achieve success. However, the recent literature on strategic bombing disregards the significance o f affecting morale and delivering pain. This dissertation demonstrates the pain strategic bombing delivers does not provide as much compellent leverage as military denial and is hard to predict, but it should never be overlooked.  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 7 --- CONVENTIONAL STRATEGIC BOMBING AND COMPELLENCE by David Robert Klubes Dissertation submitted to the Faculty o f the Graduate School of the University of Maryland at College Park in partial fulfillment o f the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy 1996 Advisory Committee: Dr. George Quester, Chair Dr. Michael Nacht Dr. Warren Phillips Dr. Donald Piper Dr. Thomas Schelling  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 8 --- UNI Number: 9637678 Copyright 1996 by Klubes, David Robert Ail rights reserved. UMI Microform 9637678 Copyright 1996, by UMI Company. All rights reserved. This microform edition is protected against unauthorized copying under Title 17, United States Code. UMI 300 North Zeeb Road Ann Arbor, Ml 48103  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 9 --- ©Copyright by David Robert Klubes 1996  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 11 --- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS I would like to thank all the people whose comments and advice made this dissertation considerably better. I hold special thanks for my committee, George Quester (chairman), Donald Piper, Warren Phillips, Thomas Schelling, and Michael Nacht. Without their advice and support, this project could never have been completed. I would also like to thank other readers who provided thoughtful analysis and corrections at times during the long process, Jan Herman, Ben Klubes, and Martin Heisler. For their financial and e