ed forces held over the Iraqi forces. A lesser amount o f overall damage, specifically targeted on what Iraq really needed to support the war in Kuwait, i.e. the transportation and communication networks, probably would have had nearly the same effect while ameliorating the suffering o f the Iraqi population. The civilians suffered due to the fact many important strategic targets in Iraq (i.e. the electrical powergrid) had dual­ usage. In other words, the electrical system supplied both military and civilian sectors. While destruction o f the electrical system was acceptable due to its military usage using a narrow legal interpretation, it devastated the living standards 447  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 460 --- of the civilians. It is becoming increasing difficult to separate combatant and civilian strategic targets. Consequently, the sweeping nature of parallel warfare may have too many political/moral repercussions in compellent operations for objectives lesser than complete surrender.'' Thus, the parallel warfare theory is too imprecise to perform as a suitable strategy throughout the range of compellence attempts. Nevertheless, its theoretical foundation, the center of gravity (CoG) concept, is important. It illuminates potential pressure points and vulnerabilities within an opposing state.” Yet simply because the state’s vital center(s) of gravity have been identified, strategic bombing may not be effective. One must identify those centers of gravity which are both vital and vulnerable to strategic bombing. The problem arises when the vital center(s) of gravity is (are) not vulnerable to air power. Yet if there is a vital CoG that air power can exploit, strategic bombing should be able to exert significant compellent leverage. Destroying or neutralizing the proper center(s) of gravity should be able to deprive the state of its ability to achieve its objectives, prevent another state from achieving its objectives, or inflicting unacceptable punishm