mary criteria for selecting examples is strategic bombing with a clear intent to achieve compellence. In other words, the actual use o f aerial bombing in an independent operation aimed at forcing a change in a state’s behavior via attacks on that state’s ability or will to wage war or conduct a specific behavior. It is crucial that the operation is a result of a definitive decision by the bombing government to conduct strategic bombing with the goal of compellence. Dropping some bombs with a vague notion o f accomplishing something or in direct support of a ground campaign does not constitute a strategic bombing campaign. But the number of dropped bombs is not necessarily critical; a single strike could still be included. I will only use cases in which there a clear-cut attempt to use strategic bombing to affect the opponent’s ability and/or will to fight for the goal of compellence.*^ Nevertheless, I am still left with too large a pool. To further reduce its size I want to focus (but not exclusively) on those cases in which the air force is ^ Not surprisingly, there a some cases that fall along the boundary, for example the Soviets in Afghanistan in the 1980s, and even the Loyalists during the Spanish Civil War. 105  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 118 --- actually capable of completing its objectives. Essentially, this is a qualitative criteria to minimize a potential independent variable that is not necessarily relevant to my analysis. My research examines the reasons for success or failure based on the strategy o f how air power is used. In some cases the failures were because the air force was woefully inadequate for the intended mission. Consequently, the failure is not with the bombing strategy, but the stark inferiority of the equipment being used or the amount of equipment committed to the operation. It is not always rewarding to compare failures based on mistaken strategy with those due to qualitative inferiority.®® This causes a bias toward pos