nal attack, Israel adopted a strategy of military denial. The lA F’s objectives were to destroy the specialized weaponry needed for the assault and disperse Egyptian forces along Canal. Israeli planes paid special attention to Egypt’s air defense system and artillery positions. On 20 July the lAF attacked many military targets, mostly in the northern section of the Canal zone."® The attacks resumed on the 22nd and continued until the 28th. The lAF inflicted severe damage, but then ceased bombing. Apparently, Israel believed an invasion had been averted and wanted to assess international reaction."® Although that reaction was muted, Egypt refused to mollify its aggressive behavior. By 12 August, the Israeli government decided to commit the lAF once again, using a tit-for-tat strategy. Each time Egyptian forces harassed or bombarded Israeli ground positions the lAF struck back, usually at the offending units."’ This was the beginning of Israel’s use o f air power more in a compellenee rather than tactical role. The theory was that if Israel could inflict enough damage to its 129  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 142 --- military, Egypt could neither sustain the intensity o f the attritional war nor be able to launch a cross-Canal invasion. And after suffering heavy losses Egypt would lose its will to continue fighting. But this strategy also failed to achieve much during August 1969. Therefore, Israel decided to escalate once again."* The Israeli escalation in September was important because it marked the full shift in objectives. The escalation was of aims and not simply means. The previous operational objectives of weakening Egypt’s ability to fight an attritional war and launch a cross-Canal assault remained. However, Israel’s new primary objective was to compel Egypt to accept a ceasefire."" Importantly, Israel wanted a settlement to reflect its strategic superiority. This would mean a major defeat for Nasser and Egypt. Fear o f international reaction and