y force (i.e. actual shooting), ranging from coercive diplomacy to coercion to traditional military strategy. Coercive diplomacy and coercion, while different in form, both aim to achieve political objectives without a classic military victory. However, coercive diplomacy leans more toward persuading the opponent, whereas coercion tends more toward forcing the opponent to cease a behavior and/or capitulate. Meanwhile, the traditional military strategy’s goal is complete victory on the battlefield and, most often, territorial conquest as well.  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 16 --- Coercive diplomacy, a specific type o f coercion, is a defensive strategy which relies heavily on bargaining and a minimal use of force/ Military force is used in a selective manner as a persuasive tool to demonstrate resolve and to affect the opponent’s will to continue rather than defeating its armed forces. Moreover, economic and political pressure tactics, such as embargoes, play prominent roles in coercive diplomacy. The central feature of coercive diplomacy is "carrot-and-stick" diplomacy. Political, economic, and military pressure, as well as threats of more pressure, are combined with compromises and inducements to settle. Coercive diplomacy aims "to persuade an opponent to stop or undo encroachment instead of bludgeoning him into doing so or physically preventing him from continuing".’ Coercion is a more expansive variation o f persuasion, encompassing a wider range o f objectives and typically utilizing greater bludgeoning. Coercion includes such offensive measures as forcing an otherwise benevolent state to give up something. Generally, coercion incorporates more threats of, and actual deliverance of, punishment than inducements to settle. Indeed, inflicting pain is often a major component of coercion.® Military power is used for more than just demonstrational purposes. Instead, it can be used to administer pain or to directly negate the opponent’s military capability