ent unheeded as the major powers still attempted this type of operation during World War II. Probably the most important effect of the Spanish Civil War on air power theory was in Germany. The Nationalists and the Republicans had concentrated their air power on supporting the ground war. The Germans noted that tactical bombing had aided the Nationalists’ efforts immensely. Therefore, entering World War II Germany was convinced air power should support the ground forces and geared its air force for the tactical role to the detriment o f the strategic bombing mission.” 36  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 49 --- World War II In World War II both the Allies and the Axis used strategic bombing as a compellent tool in hopes of achieving political objectives. Strategic bombing generally disappointed its advocates as it failed to fulfill their expectations. Actually, the limitations of strategic bombing surprised both sides.”  Moreover, during the course o f the war a disturbing trend emerged; a clear progression from selective bombing towards obliterating, city-busting tactics by both sides.“ ‘ The seductive power of supposed aerial annihilation was able to convince Axis and Allied leaders that simply hitting the enemy hard would end the war. However, this did not work so neatly in practice. The Germans During most of World War II the Germans viewed air power as mostly tactical support for the ground war (especially blitzkrieg tactics) or a defense against the Allied bomber forces. Unfortunately for the Germans, their main advocate o f strategic bombing, General Walther Wever, died in a plane crash in 1936. Wever, unlike the head of the Luftwaffe, Field Marshall Herman Goering, saw the potential of strategic air power.”  Since the German leadership did not plan for a long war, the expenditure of resources needed for a strategic bombing ^ Although many people describe the American bombing in World War II as precision bombing, I have chosen to use the term selectiv