thern portions of North Vietnam, and he asked for negotiations to begin.'"’ Initially, Rolling Thunder was limited to the DRV south of the 20th parallel. This was soon changed to the 19th parallel.'"" The bombings’  emphasis shifted back to interdiction of transportation routes. Actually, the number of bombing sorties did not decline, meaning an enormous number of bombs fell on southern DRV.'"" Moreover, the bombing of the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos continued unabated. At this time, Johnson did not seriously consider an unconditional bombing halt.'"" 221  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 234 --- On 4 April, the North Vietnamese government denounced the bombing halt as trickery, yet declared its willingness to discuss peace negotiations.'"" The reasons for this quick acquiescence are not fully known. Obviously, Hanoi saw the increasingly divisive debate in the U.S. over the war and the increasing influence of the anti-war contingent. A quick response to the bombing halt would strengthen the hand o f the anti-war advocates who had claimed Rolling Thunder was an obstacle to peace. However, the military situation probably played a role as well. The Tet defeat severely hurt the VC/NLF. North Vietnam quickly realized it would have to play a more extensive role in the fighting. Hence, the sooner the pressure of the bombing was lifted, the better for the war effort. Rolling Thunder could not significantly alter the battlefield situation, but it did divert large amounts of resources that could be used better elsewhere. Regardless o f the specific reason, Hanoi still demanded the bombings totally end before substantive talks begin.'"’ Talks throughout 1968 produced few results.'"® In an attempt to move them along more rapidly, in secret discussions the U.S. offered to totally halt the bombings if North Vietnam respected the DMZ, ceased rocket attacks on large cities, and agreed to prompt and productive talks that included the South Vietnamese government. Hanoi initial