ry option. O f course, they were concentrating on coercive diplomacy, in which military force plays a lesser role. Consequently, the military situation is not as significant as in cases with more extensive shooting. However, this dismissal exemplifies the tendency of social scientists to not delve deeply into the operational side of military strategy. Military force is discussed in terms of general use, but not whether different operational strategies can affect the success o f coercion/compellence.” Instead, nearly all the literature has focused on main explanatory variables derived from bargaining principles, such  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 20 --- as the balance of interests, values, and risks/ O f additional, yet more indirect, relevance is the analysis of the decision making process o f governments.'® Clearly, interests, values, willingness to accept punishment, internal governmental processes, and domestic politics all play roles in explaining compellence. While I am not stating the existing work on coercion has been incorrect, it does have limitations. Active compellence requires the use of military force, therefore it would stand to reason that the military strategy which is used could also play a role in determining the success or failure of compellence. More specifically, the issues are whether an effective military strategy for achieving the political objectives exists, is correctly identified, is selected, and then is properly executed. As part of this dissertation, I intend to demonstrate that the success or failure to determine and execute the appropriate military strategy can be an important factor. ®  I will briefly delineate a few possible reasons for this emphasis. First, most of the conflict analysis literature examines either coercion and coercive diplomacy or crises. The goal of coercion is persuasion rather than complete defeat. Persuasion connotes a decision to cease a conflict based on a rational evaluation o f costs and benefi