to completion in October, the talks broke down in November due to South Vietnam’s recalcitrance, which led to problems with North Vietnam. The U.S. had been negotiating with little input and communication with South Vietnam. When Thieu was presented with a fait accompli treaty, he balked. Thieu was naturally upset by the U.S. negotiating on behalf o f South Vietnam without his full knowledge, especially because he felt the treaty gave up too much. He was worried that the tripartite commission would soon lead to a coalition government and the U.S. would summarily abandon South Vietnam.'®* In fact, he 287  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 300 --- correctly had much to worry about because the treaty left North Vietnam in a very favorable military position. Nixon felt he could not accept a treaty his ally repudiated.”*  To appease South Vietnam, in November Kissinger presented its 69 proposed treaty modifications to North Vietnam. Not surprisingly. North Vietnam rejected the proposed changes. Kissinger quickly withdrew the 69 modifications, but Hanoi must have already perceived the U.S. was attempting to change the agreement. Moreover, to demonstrate its commitment to South Vietnam, the U.S. accelerated the delivery of enormous amounts o f weapons and supplies (nearly $2 billion worth). O f course, Hanoi was alarmed at this significant change in the military balance.™® More talks in November and early December between the U.S. and North Vietnam floundered. Hanoi stalled and presented new demands that the U.S. found unacceptable.™' Meanwhile, Nixon was not altogether pleased with the settlement, feeling Kissinger had been too lenient on North Vietnam.'”  As talks faltered, Nixon was not prepared to make large concessions. After more inconclusive talks, Hanoi’s representative in Paris left, saying he wanted to study the situation for a few weeks. He left another proposal which the U.S. found unacceptable.'''® Nixon decided that military escalation was required to