imary cause for capitulation. Linebacker II’s limited compellent leverage and success should never be confused with the vastly more potent and successful Linebacker I. Compellent objectives should be set relatively low. This means the costs o f surrendering should be kept low as well. Compellence occurs when the costs o f continuing outweighs the costs o f surrender. Because the shock strategy does not raise the costs o f continuing with extensive damage, it must raise the perceived costs of continuing. As the opposing states’ perception of costs is highly unpredictable, it is better to lower the concession demands to more easily meet the pereeived cost. Indeed, the targeted state’s resolve and interests is more likely to influence the shock strategy than the military denial approach. It is very difficult for the shock strategy to compel a state with strong resolve and high interest. The shock strategy might hurt temporarily, but it will not cause enough pain to actually prevent a policy from being undertaken. The psychological effect may be powerful, but it will be overcome by the resolve to persevere. As pain is not an effective compellent lever by itself, the compellent operation will most likely fail. The shock strategy works best when exploiting a demoralized population, a weak military, or a leadership without extensive domestic support. 477  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 490 --- In brief, the shock strategy is the most applicable use o f strategic bombing in cases not focusing on territorial control. Yet it is hampered by the shock strategy’s dependency on the opposing state’s interest and resolve in addition to its leadership’s often inaccurate perceptions and attitudes. This strategy it cannot exert an enormous amount o f compellent pressure and therefore should be used with caution. Attempting to dramatically change the political situation solely with the shock strategy is a recipe for failure. Finally, success with the shock strategy is very d