ack into Cambodia did not lead to any breakthrough in the negotiations. The Cambodia bombings and incursion were decidedly inconclusive as compellent leverage. Undoubtedly, they inflicted some damage to North Vietnam’s military forces, but not a critical amount that altered the situation fundamentally. Nor were they massive escalations that showed Nixon was willing to do whatever it took to get a settlement. Any benefit gained by these operations was offset by the virulent domestic opposition stirred up and the troop withdrawals which showed Hanoi that the U.S. was torn with dissent over the war and would eventually leave.® ® 260  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 273 --- Another Military Escalation and More Negotiations By fall o f 1970, the stalled negotiations deeply concerned Kissinger. He beginning to conclude that his two-track approach was not feasible as North Vietnam simply was not willing to compromise.®® Therefore, he recommended a major concession, a cease-fire in place which allowed Hanoi to leave its troops in South Vietnam.®’ But Nixon remained adamant against a unilateral withdrawal. Peace with honor remained his goal.®* Consequently, Nixon/Kissinger decided to rely on military action to break the stalemate. This led to the ill-fated Lam Son 719 offensive in the spring o f 1971. The South Vietnamese army launched this offensive into Laos to disrupt NVA operations by severing the Ho Chi Minh Trail and destroying supply caches.®® Besides the immediate tactical gains, Lam Son 719 had a number of potential benefits. First, it would decrease North Vietnam’s ability to interfere with Vietnamization and the U.S. withdrawal. Additionally, it would again signal U.S. intentions of increasing military pressure to achieve a settlement. Although there were no American forces in the ground operations, U.S air power would play an important role in the battle. Thus, it was intended to demonstrate the effectiveness of the combination o f Vietnamization and U.