osition vis-a-vis Iran continued to improve. From late 1986 and into 1987, Iraq defeated another series of Iranian ground offensives while inflicting heavy casualties. The U.S. became even more involved in the Gulf as the Tanker War intensified. This led to direct confrontation with Iranian forces and neutralized Iran’s compellent strategy. Khomeini’s vision o f a decisive victory sweeping Hussein from power was becoming increasingly dim. With Iraq’s increasingly effective prosecution of the Tanker War and resultant economic and domestic difficulties Iran could no longer afford the luxury o f prolonged attrition.'”  Iran had to try for the decisive victory before domestic 394  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 407 --- collapse. Iran launched a number of major ground offensives, each proclaimed as the "Final Offensive", in the latter half of 1986 and early 1987. Behind its powerful, main fortifications, the Iraqi Army turned aside the simple, massed assaults and inflicted enormous casualties. During the Karbala Offensives in early 1987, Iranian losses were estimated to have been 70,000 while Iraq suffered but 10,000 casualties.” ®  Even Iran recognized it could not continue the war for long with a 7 to 1  casualty ratio. Morale in the various Iranian military and paramilitary organizations fell.'”  Moreover, Iran was having increasing difficulty in outfitting its armed forces. Declining oil revenues reduced the number of weapons it could buy abroad and equipment from the Shah’s era was dwindling quickly. April 1987 marked the end of Iran’s major ground offensives for the duration of the war. The Iranian offensives led to brief renewal of the War of Cities. Iraq wanted to increase the pressure on Iran to force an end to the ground offensives, especially those that threatened Basra.'”  In January and February 1987, Iraq launched approximately 200 sorties against Iranian cities. Iraq bombed Iran’s most significant cities, included the largest, Tehran and Isfahan