cuted in 1965 (or anytime before Tet), the U.S. could have compelled North Vietnam to settle,” ®  I will briefly analyze this conjecture because it clearly demonstrates how the conditions o f the conflict seriously affect bombing and compellence. It is not merely the bombing strategy that is important, it is how the bombing strategy relates to the conflict that is critical. Linebacker enthusiasts often point to their speedy implementation and the lessening of Washington controls as the keys to their success. This helped both Linebackers, but these factors would not have made much difference in 1965 (unless Washington decided to totally loosen all restrictions and wipe out North Vietnam)."’  The speed and fewer controls were not the only reasons for success. " "  O f course, there are other variables that would play significant roles in 1965. For example, if the U.S. executed a 1965 Linebacker II, the Air Force would have quickly run out of targets in North Vietnam and faced with the question of what next? Would the U.S. have escalated further and how so? (This was less o f a problem with Linebacker I as it was more of an interdiction campaign; you can always drop more bombs on roads and trails.) In addition, how many U.S. ground troops would have been sent if a settlement had been signed or if Linebacker II had failed? A massive U.S. ground troop commitment in conjunction with Linebacker II probably would have had increased compellent leverage. Moreover, the possibility o f some Soviet Union and/or China’s reaction cannot be discounted. Regardless of these issues, the prospect of any use of air power in 1965 being successful is dim. 302  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 315 --- Indeed, the most devastating rebuttal to the argument that Linebacker could have succeeded where Rolling Thunder failed was that the Vietnam War had changed dramatically from 1965 to 1972. Many o f the conditions had changed so dramatically that these two time periods could even be c