mpellent leverage the bombing operation gained.** This division in the ranks undermined the apperance o f UN cohesiveness. The problem with this execution was the failure to deliver the pain where it really mattered. China and the Soviet Union were the primary decision-makers and the bombings did not inflict sufficient pain to the Soviet Union, and especially China, to induce any concessions. O f course, the U.S. was limited in the ability to inflict pain on the Soviet Union and China. Destroying the electrical generators was not a bad attmept at delivering pain to China -there really weren’t any other options and it was impossible to know beforehand it would not succeed- but it was not enough. This illustrates the major difficulty with relying on punishment to achieve compellence, the compeller must be able to inflict pain that will affect the correct decision-making component. * *  The British government was upset over not being informed prior to the operation and that the U.S. bombed Pyongyang. It was also worried the Chinese might break off talks. 489  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 502 --- The Shock Strategy By the end of 1952 the armistice talks had broken down over the POW issue. After the talks resumed in April 1953, the Communists agreed to an exchange of sick and wounded POWs. Nevertheless, the final ceasefire still eluded the new U.S. President Dwight Eisenhower. In an attempt to apply even more compellent leverage, the U.S. launched a bombing campaign against the series o f irrigation dams in North Korea in May and June 1953. These dams held water needed for rice fields, the staple of the Korean diet. The destruction o f the dams would also flood the surrounding local areas, which included some important transportation routes. This operation intended to inflict pain by disrupting food production and to show there was a cost for continuing the war. The military benefit was that Korean rice fed the communist soldiers that China or the Soviet Uni