essure the leadership. Strategic bombing is a blunt weapon that tends to inflict punishment upon the state as a whole, which is often not sufficient to achieve compellence. The pain must be tailored to pressure the leadership to concede. Notwithstanding the pulverization and punishment strategies failure to compel states, the pain delivered by strategic bombing should not be relegated to irrelevance. History is replete with examples o f pain affecting the military or political situation, often by causing considerable anxiety among the people and, on occasion, contributing significantly to morale decline. During the Iran-Iraq War, the Iraqi bombing and missile attacks on Iranian cities clearly contributed to the collapse of morale in 1988. This, in turn, was a major factor in the Iranian decision to accept a ceasefire in July 1988. A truncated version of the punishment strategy 437  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 450 --- came close to succeeding during the War of Attrition. The Israeli operation in early 1970 fell somewhere between the punishment and the shock strategy (with some aspects of the military denial as well) by relying on the pain and psychological effect o f bombing. The operation clearly alarmed Nasser, who was lucky enough to be saved by the Soviets. The Italian population’s consternation with the Allied bombings in 1943 had a powerful influence on their government’s decision to topple Mussolini. The German bombing campaign against England in World War I also created great stresses in British society. It too was not a full executed strategy (aiming for pulverization, but being more o f a punishment strategy), due to the extremely limited capability o f the German zeppelins and airplanes. Nevertheless, the British population was very concerned with the attacks and pressured the government to act. Even in World War II, when strategic bombing has been accused of failing, the civilian morale in Germany and especially Japan was affected by the bom