ns with the UN concerning a ceasefire. The move to the ceasefire began, albeit slowly, in Fall 1987 because elements of the Iranian government realized Iran could no longer afford the war. Iraq had defeated Iran’s military strategy, but Iraq had not threatened Iran’s territorial integrity significantly as of yet. Iraq’s military victories in 1988 are usually credited as the mechanism responsible for compellent success. But the failure to reject Resolution 598 and the Iranian willingness to talk 398  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 411 --- to the UN shows that other mechanisms were involved in the decision to reach a ceasefire. But the discussions with the UN did not have the support o f the entire Iranian government. The radicals saw delaying action on Resolution 598 as a diplomatic ploy to buy time.”’ The rationales behind Iran’s actions were decidedly mixed and not all Iranian activities were consistent due to a lack of a single strategy. For example, even while the pragmatists were working toward a ceasefire with the UN, the radicals were laying mines to strike American ships and reflagged tankers to undermine the pragmatists’ efforts toward a ceasefire.” ®  The competition between factions forced the change in Iran’s objectives to proceed slowly and haltingly. After Iran’s refusal to accept UN Resolution 598 (which Iraq had accepted), Hussein decided again to intensify the pressure on Iran. Part of his decision to escalate was probably based on the improving financial situation. In 1987, Iraq’s oil exports increased by nearly a million barrels per day from 1.7 to 2.6 and oil revenues nearly doubled.” '*  And with Iran’s ground offensives stopped cold and the U.S. countering Iranian reactions in the Persian Gulf, Iraq could escalate with considerably less fear of an unacceptable Iranian counter-escalation. In late August, the Iraqi Air Force resumed its strikes on oil facilities and tankers. Besides Kharg Island, Iraq also resumed its strikes against th