geted state’s vulnerabilities and important aspects have failed. Therefore, I will argue that instead of focusing on what is going on in the target state, it is more important for policy-makers to determine what compeller is trying to accomplish. Pulverization and Punishment Strategies Some of the pertinent theory regarding strategic bombing and compellence has focused on delivering large amounts of destruction, pain, and punishment to the targeted state. One strategy formulated in the early years of air power, pulverization, and a later one, punishment, prominently emphasize inflicting pain and destruction. Inflicting general destruction inflicted on the state, such as heavily bombing the economic sector exerts direct compellent pressure, while breaking the population’s morale and the society’s will to fight yields indirect pressure. However, delivering pain and destruction has not demonstrated itself to be the primary reason why states’  concede to compellent pressure. Pape explained why states are so difficult to compel this way, emphasizing their high resolve, poor evaluation o f the situation by both sides, and domestic politics being adverse to concessions.^ These strategies are also blunted by the tendency of states to accept tremendous amounts of damage to avoid yielding. In fact, the targeted state’s interest and resolve can play a major role in determining whether these types o f 429  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 442 --- compellent operations can succeed. A state with high interest and resolve will be difficult, if not impossible to compel via punishment. And determining whether a state has high interest and resolve is both difficult and unpredictable. To the early theorists, especially Douhet and Trenchard, pulverizing cities seemed to be the most effective way to win a war. They saw the will and resolve to continue fighting as an important target for strategic bombing. As modern v/ar tends to involve the entire society, undermining the resol