o force Nasser to quickly concede to avoid further attacks. Instead of acknowledging defeat and ending the conflict, Nasser again turned to the Soviets. On 22 January 1970, 138  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 151 --- Nasser flew to Moscow to request/demand/beg for accelerated delivery of the promised air defense weapons, even more arms, and most dramatically, Soviet personnel to man them. Nasser had decided to shift the Middle East conflict to the international level through direct involvement of a superpower.®^® The Soviets were reluctant to deploy their forces to Egypt. Indeed, the whole Soviet policy toward the Middle East was one of caution.®®'’  Sending arms was one thing, sending combat units into an ongoing conflict in the volatile Middle East was another. The Soviet leadership was aware of the risks involved but the desire to prevent an Egyptian loss overcame their caution. By January 1970, the ®  Some authors view Nasser’s request as a shrewd capitalization o f the Israeli bombing to get want he really wanted, better weapons and superpower involvement. Others believe the weakness of Egypt’s position led to the request. Nasser fervently hated colonialism. The Soviet military personnel in Egypt clearly smacked of colonialism as he would handing over a measure o f national sovereignty to the Soviets. The decision to abjure defense of his nation to another state must not have been that easy. Therefore, the request was probably made out o f necessity which provided positive benefits. There was, and still is, considerable debate over the Soviet’s intentions in the Middle East. At the time, a majority o f American scholars and experts interpreted Soviet policy through the prism o f the Cold War. Therefore, the Soviet Union wanted to exploit the conflict in the Middle East to carry out their strategy of global expansion and export of revolutionary ideology. America generally based its Middle East policy on this assumption. However, a minority o f experts