in valuable POWs had diminished as well. Nixon had now committed B-52s against Hanoi, and had weathered the storm. Just as importantly, the U.S. bombers were using laser guided bombs to great affect against 295  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 308 --- the few high value targets in Hanoi and Haiphong. Consequently, Hanoi was probably apprehensive over two issues, long-term affect to the NVA and the question of what would Nixon do next. The only way to resolve these concerns was to remove the U.S. from the Vietnam conflict. While Linebacker II had little immediate impact on the NVA’s ability to operate, a continued bombing campaign would only serve to weaken the NVA. The supply lines had been taking a pounding since April 1972, with only a brief respite in late fall. While enough supplies were probably getting through to keep the NVA operating, more would be needed to keep pace with the ARVN and build up for another offensive. For example, in the summer, the ARVN had regrouped enough to launched limited offensive that retook Quang Tri, the most important city lost during the Easter Offensive.'®* In the fall, the U.S. supplied the ARVN with enormous amounts o f weapons and materials. The ARVN would probably launch an offensive in the upcoming spring and the NVA would need supplies and reinforcements to stave it off. The sooner the U.S. stopped bombing, the sooner North Vietnam could begin repairs and accelerate the southward flow. Hanoi was probably also beginning to worry as to what Nixon would do next. Nixon clearly wanted a settlement completed soon and was willing to endure considerable domestic criticism. In December 1972 the situation must have looked grim in North Vietnam. Detente had removed much o f North Vietnam’s superpower protection. Unlike Johnson, Nixon could bomb nearly whatever he wanted in North Vietnam without fear of Soviet or Chinese reprisal. And Hanoi 296  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 309 --- knew it. Moreover, Nixon had al