e 1941 and early 1942. There were many people, including Prime Minister Winston Churchill, who still believed strategic bombing could lay waste to German cities."’  Moreover, the British were still influenced by Trenchard’s belief that strategic bombing could destroy the civilian morale." Therefore, in February 1942, the British Bomber Command officially adopted the objective of demoralizing the German civilians (especially the industrial workers) through the destruction of cities.'*^ The destruction of industries and infrastructure was a secondary objective. The Casablanca Conference solidified area urban bombing’s place in the overall Allied strategy. The British would conduct urban bombing at night, while the Americans would carry out selective bombing of industrial and infrastructure targets by day, thereby placing "round the clock" pressure on Germany. Churchill was so impressed with area bombing that he tried unsuccessfully to convince the Americans to shift to area bombing. " Actually, Trenchard was still alive and an occasional advisor to the British leadership. 42  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 55 --- The British carried out urban area bombing until almost the end of the war. The strategy included concentrating on certain cities, most notably Hamburg and Berlin. The inflicted damage was severe; Hamburg endured a firestorm. Nevertheless, the bombings failed to drive Germany out of the war and resulted in heavy losses for the Bomber Command.'*'’  In addition to the area bombing there were a number o f significant diversions which included a major operation to support the Normandy invasion and a smaller effort to eradicate the V-weapons manufacturing and launching sites. From the fall of 1944 onwards, the Bomber Command also contributed to the attacks on Germany’s oil and transportation systems.'*^ Nonetheless, the leader of the Bomber Command, Sir Arthur Harris, constantly resisted attempts to divert his bombers from city-busting.'’ ®  He dismisse