udi Arabia between Iranian pilgrims and security forces. Hundreds were killed. Saudi Arabia suspected Iranian governmental involvement and broke off high-level contacts with Iran. Other inflammatory incidents initiated by Iran against the Gulf states followed. The Gulf States plodding shift to Iraq was nearly complete.”® Iran’s strategy had failed and its domestic situation was declining. The Iranian people were beginning to doubt the war seriously, and even the Pasdaran 397  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 410 --- and the mullahs were becoming skeptical.” ’ The declining morale also meant that Iran could not mobilize for the final, all-out effort that might yield a sufficient enough ground triumph to achieve victory. Worse, the economic situation had not improved. Iran was stuck in a position in which it had no war strategy to achieve its objectives and the cost o f continuing was becoming unsustainable, but it had no clear way to extricate itself from the war. This led to the growing influence o f the pragmatists in Tehran. They realized the futility of the war and believed it was becoming a threat, or at least an onerous burden, to the Revolution. They were searching for a face-saving way for Iran to accept a ceasefire without Hussein’s ouster. In July 1987, the pragmatists prevented Iran from rejecting UN Resolution 598, which called for a ceasefire and a comprehensive peace settlement.''*® Iran’s official position was that the resolution needed modifications before it would be acceptable. That answer was not a yes, but not a no. In September, Iran invited the UN Secretary General for talks on how to implement Resolution 598. * '" This is an important point. Months before Iraq began its highly successful ground campaigns in 1988, Iran had entered discussions with the UN concerning a ceasefire. The move to the ceasefire began, albeit slowly, in Fall 1987 because elements of the Iranian government realized Iran could no longer afford the war. Iraq had de