ssure. This shows that simply having a suitable military option on paper is not enough. The compeller must also possess the capability and the will to execute a military strategy that will yield compellent success. 418  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 431 --- Each side had its reasons for not executing a campaign to sever the other’s flow of oil exports completely. The weak IIAF clearly restricted Iran’s options. Later in the conflict, the Western naval presence moderated Iran’s interdiction activities significantly and removed the threat o f closing the Straits o f Hormuz. Iraq was also constrained by the limited capability of its air force and lack o f naval assets. But even after aerial capabilities improved via foreign weapons purchases, Iraq still had political issues to weigh before exerting maximum pressure. For example, Iraq was concerned that its operations might provoke Iran to attack its Gulf allies. Consequently, Iraq only executed a punishment strategy that eventually incorporated elements of the economic infrastructure strategy. This restricted campaign was never able to achieve the full compellent pressure one would suppose Iraq could have exerted given a cursory examination of the conflict. This illustrates the need for more detailed analysis o f how the geo-political environment affects the availability of military options, which in turn may influence whether compellence is achieved. Iraq’s missile campaign in 1988 was a more complete exploitation o f an Iranian vulnerability. By this time, Iraq possessed many factors favoring coercive diplomacy. In conjunction with the Iranian population’s susceptibility to pressure from Iraqi attacks due to declining morale, it is not surprising this compellent operation was successful. When Iraq had an available military option, this time it had the capability and will to execute it. Without the capability or will, the compellent pressure would not have been generated. 419  File: --- klubes_compellence.