increase the costs o f fighting the war to where Nasser would be forced to accept a ceasefire. Although the lAF could neutralize Egypt’s artillery, the inherent limitations o f air power in a static war meant that bombing could not stop Egypt’s use of smaller weapons to continue attritional warfare. Nor could the lAF attrit Egypt’s military enough so it was unable to wage attritional warfare or the losses were beyond Egypt’s tolerance level. And Nasser refused to concede to only the possibility o f widespread bombings throughout Egypt. Nevertheless, a continuation of this bombing strategy might have eventually been successful. Besides direct prevention, the campaign diverted a significant amount of Egyptian men, material, and equipment from preparing for the major cross-Canal assault. Eventually, Nasser would have been forced to decide whether to end this conflict on whatever terms he could to prepare for the next war or continue to suffer the large drain of resources (which would postpone the cross- Canal assault) in attempting to settle on his terms. In fact, Nasser did agree to a ceasefire in order to prepare for the next war. The indirect benefits o f draining the opponent’s resources are often overlooked and were important in this conflict. O f course, apprehension over international meddling and domestic pressures pushed the Israeli government to try something to end the war as soon as possible. Israel, however, did not have the patience required for continuing the 1969 strategy. By January 1970, perceived pressures to end the war led the Israeli government to initiate the deep strike campaign. Israel hoped the deep strike campaign would lead to the fall of Nasser, who they saw as the main obstacle to 159  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 172 --- peace. Israel hoped the demonstration of its superiority in the form of bombings would convince the Egyptians o f the futility o f continuing the war. Finally, Israel wanted to weaken Egypt’s ability to suppo