l offensive. Consequently, Iraq initially decided against a large-scale active compellent operation. This is not to say Iraq did not execute aerial attacks sorties that would be considered strategic bombing. For example, in October 1981, an Iraqi strike inflicted considerable, albeit only temporary, damage to Kharg Island.'*^ Instead of active compellence, Iraq believed that assuming a defensive strategy and hoping Iran would eventually cease the war was the least costly alternative. Hussein was optimistic the better equipped Iraqi Army could hold off Iranians attacks without prohibitive losses. Nonetheless, Hussein believed that high casualties would rob the Khomeini government of its people’s support (he was eventually correct).'*'* The policy decisions o f this time would set much of the tone for the war. Simply put, Iraq chose on a defensive strategy relying on technology and well- fortified positions to lessen casualties. It would also rely on monetary support from 369  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 382 --- the wealthy Gulf states to help finance the war. As long as Iraq could keep the military situation stalemated and money flowing in, it could continue with the war. The more significant use of strategic bombing and economic warfare only arose when Iran threatened Iraq’s ability to maintain a defensive status quo. The Situation in Iran Iran’s leaders also began to make crucial decisions concerning the course of the war. Somewhat surprisingly, there were indications that Iran was not totally averse to ending the war, but only if Iraq would withdraw from the occupied territory. In fact, Iran’s primary objective through the first two years o f the war was just to regain lost territory.'*^ However, Khomeini’s Islamic Revolution continually pushed Iran into making the war a struggle for the survival, and then expansion, of the revolution. This obviously lessened the opportunity for compromise. Yet Iran’s armed forces were in such bad shape that rectifyi