the subject. Much of the theory instead focuses on the operational aspects of conducting strategic bombing campaigns rather than the more abstract concept of linking politics and war. Moreover, the advent of nuclear weapons limited the post-1945 scholarship on strategic bombing as analysis shifted to nuclear warfare theory. Recently, there has been renewed interest in studying conventional air power and its relationship to compellence. The lack o f theory regarding air power and its political influence results partially from it being in the "intellectual no-man’s land" between military science and political science.’  Military science, normally the province of armed forces personnel, is concerned with the operational matters of conducting warfare. How military force should be used is often considered more o f a political question left to statesmen and policy analysts. Examining which military strategies are best suited for compellence purposes does not fall exclusively into either group’s focus and therefore is somewhat neglected. Moreover, since World War II, both military and 19  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 32 --- civilians communities have concentrated more on nuclear warfare operations and theory rather than on conventional air power.® Since World War Two, civilian intellectuals have dominated the theoretical discussion of the relationship between military and politics, essentially creating a new field, known as strategic studies.® Strategic studies is primarily the domain of political scientists and historians, with some notable contributions from economists and "hard" scientists. History, however, generally details what happened in a particular war or campaign rather than analyzing larger trends in order to construct theory." Political science holds the greatest potential for it examines power and relationships between states, nations, and other assorted collections of people. Compellence is one behavioral aspect of the relationship between state