pellence.pdf --- Page 253 --- CHAPTER SIX VIETNAM; PART II - THE LINEBACKER, CAMBODIA, AND LAOS CAMPAIGNS Although Rolling Thunder was a failure, not all the United States air power efforts in the Vietnam War met with a similar fate. The Linebacker campaigns in 1972 accomplished most of their objectives by playing a major role in reaching a settlement between North Vietnam (DRV - Democratic Republic o f Vietnam) and the United States. This treaty formalized the U.S. withdrawal from Vietnam while avoiding an immediate collapse of South Vietnam. The two bombing campaigns in 1972 reaffirmed some people’s belief in air power. The Linebacker II bombings of December 1972 especially have been regarded as a grand demonstration o f strategic bombing.* Linebacker II had few o f the Washington imposed controls that characterized Rolling Thunder and apparently ended the U.S. involvement in Vietnam. Indeed, some have even claimed Rolling Thunder could have been equally successful if similarly unshackled. However, this conclusion fails to appreciate the vastly different conditions in the Vietnam War between 1965-1968 and 1972. These conditions were critical factors in Linebacker I and IPs success. Linebacker I and II should be considered compellent successes because they did induce North Vietnam to lower its settlement terms and eventually agree to a treaty. However, one needs to carefully examine the mechanisms for the compellence and 241  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 254 --- what degree o f compellence was achieved. This case study is particularly interesting because it illustrates how different conditions in the same conflict can affect the efficacy of bombing. President Richard Nixon’s use o f strategic bombing to exert compellent leverage over North Vietnam can be separated into three phases: 1) bombing North Vietnamese Army (NVA) supply lines and depots in southern Laos from November 1968 until April 1972 and Cambodia from March 1969 until May 1970, 2) the Line