ncept o f the punishment strategy to deliver the decisive blow. Furthermore, Iraq did not have the capability to cut off Iran’s oil export or to devastate its economic sector. Consequently, Iraq was forced to rely on a diluted operation in hopes o f exerting sufficient compellent leverage to yield a cease-fire. And for the moment, Iraq did not pursue attacks on urban areas with vigor. In May, Iraqi planes damaged Iran’s biggest oil refinery and attacked other economic targets. In the Gulf, Iraq also began to attack the shuttle tankers transporting oil from Kharg to safer loading facilities in the south. And Iraq still managed to bomb Kharg Island approximately ten times during May and June respectively.'®^ The strain on the Iranian economy and the Iranian state was deepening, manifesting itself in a variety o f ways, including, rising inflation and unemployment, and shortages throughout the economy.'®® Furthermore, in early 1986 the price o f oil had dropped dramatically and along with it Iran’s oil revenues. From a 1985 total of $13 billion, Iran could only generate $6.6 billion in 1986, even though its exports only fell by some 10%.'®’ Worse, Iran’s military 390  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 403 --- expenditures for 1986 were approximately $16 billion.'®* With no wealthy allies to support it, Iran simply could not continue the war indefinitely at this rate. The heavy casualties and the moribund economy increased the war-weariness in Iran. Estimates o f Iranian casualties for the war now approached 250,000 dead and 500,000 wounded.'®’ Another indication o f Iran’s deteriorating situation was the Pasdaran and Baseej could no longer replenish their units with volunteers and had to resort to conscription."® This meant the Iran ground forces were losing their high morale advantage granted by revolutionary fervor. On the other side, the Iraqi Army was honing its expertise and integrating new weapons. The balance on the ground was shifting to Iraq.'" In 1986