much. Anyway, the objective o f reducing terrorism constitutes continued compellence which typically requires recurring actions, which were not forthcoming.速速 There was interest in the U.S. government for maintaining pressure on Qaddafi. One major operation was a misinformation campaign whose intention was leaked to the press and then discontinued amid considerable chagrin in Washington.速* But the Iran-Contra Affair drew attention away from Qaddafi and severely weakened the Reagan presidency so stem policy toward Libya waned. The United States also undoubtedly achieved a measure of retaliation with the strike. Simply dropping a single bomb on Libya would classify in the broadest sense as a successful reprisal. However, because the raid was able to inflict some serious damage to targets Qaddafi probably believed were important, the objective o f reprisal must be considered a success as well. Upon examining success or failure of the objectives aimed at the wider terrorist audience there is more equivocation. Deterrence is difficult to measure in 345  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 358 --- any situation and this is no exception. The strike was supposed to deliver a message to terrorists throughout the world that America would not blithely tolerate terrorism. The message would be delivered as long as some of the bombs could hit some of the targets, which occurred. The question is whether the recipients fully acted upon it. In the years following the raid the amount of terrorism originating in the Middle East and aimed at American interests did seem to decline.*速 But there are so many other factors which could have also have played a role that discerning the precise deterrent effect created by the bombing is very difficult. Anti-American Islamic terrorism is by no means gone, as vividly illustrated by the World Trade Center bombing in 1993. The goal of retaining credibility was at least partially successful. U.S. credibility is made and broken by multiple issu