tives. Furthermore, indiscriminate attacks against urban areas have been outlawed.^ Although Russia apparently used the pulverization strategy in its offensive against Chechnya in late 1994 and early 1995, the increasing legal and morale prohibitions against the pulverization strategy has forced other states, such as the U.S., to reconsider their bombing policies.'’  More precise uses of military force seem better suited for achieving compellence. The punishment strategy contends that a state (more specifically, the state’s leaders) would concede after some painful bombing with the express threat o f even more painful future bombings. Unlike the pulverization, the punishment strategy inflicts considerably less damage because it generally does not aim for the destruction of entire cities. The punishment strategy’s attempt to generate compellent leverage via inflicting pain usually translates into attacking economic resources. Assuming that the leaders value the economic well-being of their state. During the September 1995 bombing operation in Bosnia, the U.S. apparently took measures to avoid any civilian casualties even though these measures were detrimental to achieving the military objectives. This actually goes beyond the letter and the spirit of current law o f war regarding air power, which acknowledges and accepts some collateral damage as an unfortunate consequence o f war. 431  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 444 --- they may not be willing to suffer a devastated industrial sector and other expensive infrastructure aspects such as transportation systems and power plants needed to sustain a high level of economic production. The punishment strategy emphasizes influencing the targeted state’s leadership to induce change rather than inflicting massive destruction on the state and society. The direct compellent pressure produced via administering pain comes generally with the destruction of economic infrastructure, or indirectly through civilian unrest