lnerable and important in the targeted state are the best determinants o f the proper strategy. They believe that either inflicting pain and or disrupting military capability is the key to success. This dissertation has shown that neither o f these approaches is effective over the wide range of compellent operations. I take a different tack by positing that the compeller’s objectives should be the foundation of formulating the most appropriate compellent strategy. This is critical to develop the most robust theory on strategic bombing and compellence. Most importantly, looking at the compeller’s objective provides accurate predictive information regarding the best approach and probable effectiveness o f strategic bombing across the broad spectrum of compellent operations. Additionally, the compeller’s objectives often determine what is vulnerable and important in the targeted state in that particular conflict. Consequently, looking at those objectives is the vital, yet overlooked, stage in developing compellent strategy with air power. I believe that strategic bombing can best influence the situation when the compeller’s objectives are tied to territorial control. The most effective and consistent use of strategic bombing has been disrupting the military capability needed to hold or seize territory. This is because strategic bombing is best suited to disrupt the resources needed to support a conventional military force. Consequently, this threat to territory can generate the most compellent leverage. Strategic bombing has been much less successful at altering a state’s behavior via delivering pain. Civilians have proved stouter under fire than early theorists 422  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 435 --- supposed and leaders often seem willing to accept heavy damage to their state. In addition, strategic bombing has generally inflicted pain on the state as a whole rather than specifically delivering punishment that will pressure the leadership significantly