mplete collapse in the war effort would likely lead to a collapse in the Khomeini regime. By the end of June, the pragmatist faction o f the Iranian leadership was arguing strongly that the war must end soon to save the Revolution. However, the radicals, supported by Khomeini, still held out.”*  Then, on 3 July, the USS V incen nes  accidently shot down an Iranian airliner in the Persian Gulf, killing 290 civilians.” ®  The tragedy actually contributed to the ceasefire because it gave the pragmatists the boost needed to win their argument that Iran needed to end the war now.” ®  The radicals were unable to rally domestic enthusiasm or international unity against the U.S. The lack o f domestic enthusiasm provided further evidence of the Iranian people’s war-weariness and the weak international condemnation showed the extreme isolation of Iran.” ’ It was a traumatic event that illustrated dramatically the futility of Iran’s position. 410  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 423 --- Just as importantly, the incident gave the Iranian leadership a face-saving way to justify the cease-fire to the Iranian masses, while avoiding an admittance that their political objectives and policies had failed.” ®  The Iranian government could claim it was ending the war because the world community was now attacking its civilians. On 18 July, Iran notified the UN it had accepted Resolution 598. Two days later, Khomeini announced to his people that Iran had agreed to a ceasefire.” ’ After another three weeks of minor skirmishes while Iraq haggled over procedures and the prisoner of war issue, the war finally ended on 6 August 1988.™ Analysis of Air Power An examination of air power in this conflict yields some interesting conclusions. Iran’s aerial operations did function as a useful deterrent to Iraqi attacks, but were unable to generate any discernable compellent leverage for Iran. On the other hand, Iraq’s use of air power as a compellent mechanism was more successful. It may ha