e been painful to the state, but not necessarily Qaddafi. The same goes for most o f the Libyan military. Attacking these targets could have a significant negative impact on Qaddafi if it precipitated a coup. But otherwise, it 351  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 364 --- would be entirely possible they would have little effect on Qaddafi’s calculations of cost-versus-benefits of continuing his policies. They might weaken his support domestically, but it also might galvanize support for him for standing up to the Americans. Attacking terrorist training facilities would hinder Qaddafi’s foreign policy, but there was no one single, or small group of targets, that could deny this capability for any extended length o f time. The NSC’s fears o f striking easily justifiable, but essentially meaningless targets was warranted. Instead, the U.S. bombers struck a target with importance and immediacy to Qaddafi himself. He saw first-hand the ability o f the U.S. military to reach out to his very base of power. This probably played a large factor in Qaddafi’s apparent decision to de-escalate his confrontation with the U.S. In this small use o f military force, the strategy chosen played a role in achieving success. 352  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 365 --- CHAPTER EIGHT THE IRAN-IRAQ WAR 1980-1988 The Iran-Iraq War was one o f the more tragic conflicts of the late 20th century. Hundreds of thousands died for little gain as neither state accomplished its intended objectives. Much of the fault lay in Iran and Iraq’s inability to coordinate their military strategies with their political objectives. For eight long years the conflict wallowed in an attritional stalemate as neither side could gain enough of an advantage to force a settlement. Iran finally accepted a ceasefire after the cumulative strain of the war became too heavy to bear. The use of air power in this conflict is best described as reluctance and incompetence coupled with missed opportunities tha