d military force.*'* Others claim the primary goal was to kill Qaddafi.'*^ A more optimistic view of the bombing’s potential effectiveness proposed the strike aimed to destroy major elements of Libya’s terrorist infrastructure.** While interesting to include, these claims are not very accurate. The Raid The bombing force o f the airstrike consisted o f two packages, 15 Navy A-6s hitting targets in eastern Libya, while 18 Air Force F-llls  hit targets in and around Tripoli. Navy F/A-18s and A-7s would actively suppress SAMs, while Air Force EF-111s and Navy EA-6Bs would conduct electronic jamming of Libyan radars. Finally, Navy F-14s and F/A-18s would intercept any Libya fighters that rose to meet the strike force (none did). The F-111s were assigned three targets, nine F-11  Is were to hit the Aziziyah Barracks, Qaddafi’s primary command and control center for terrorist and military operations, three F-llls  were to hit the Murrat Sidi Bilal Terrorist Training Camp, ' A number of people charged the strike was an assassination attempt. The potential to kill Qaddafi at the Aziziyah barracks certainly existed. Many in the Reagan administration would not have been sorry if Qaddafi had been killed. Nonetheless, the evidence seems to indicate that hitting the barracks was more of an effort to disrupt Qaddafi’s command and control center and to send a message rather than to specifically kill him. The Aziziyah complex contained deep underground bunkers, but the F-llls  did not use penetrating bombs. Moreover, the United States intelligence agencies were typically unaware of Qaddafi’s location. Qaddafi was known to have a number of different headquarters. Aziziyah was selected some days prior to the raid and the odds of his being there on any given night were low. 339  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 352 --- and six F-llls  were to bomb the military side of the Tripoli Airfield, to hit jet transports used to support terrorism abroad as well as disrupt operations on