stingly, the Soviets must have given at least their tacit approval to the Polish. Their motivations for supporting a peace proposal are unclear, but probably relate to their desire to avoid the Vietnam War from spiraling into a larger, wider conflict. 203  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 216 --- North Vietnamese did not want to make it appear they were buckling under the strain of bombings. They believed the U.S. should stop bombing without any reciprocal concessions. Rolling Thunder was too conspicuous for its own good. The Conduct of the Ground War By 1966, there were four major components to the U.S. effort in Vietnam, 1  ) air campaign against North Vietnam, 2) a related diplomatic operation to engage North Vietnam in negotiations, 3) nation-building in South Vietnam, and 4) the ground war.” ' Rolling Thunder and the diplomatic effort had clearly not worked. The bombing campaign resulted in few military or political gains and North Vietnam showed little inclination for negotiations. Meanwhile, the conflict in South Vietnam continued with a fury. In 1965, the Army General in charge of the U.S. forces in Vietnam, William Westmoreland, outlined a three phase plan that would culminate with the destruction of the NVA/VC forces by the end of 1967.'™ General Westmoreland decided to adopt a strategy o f attrition to weaken the enemy in the field so much 204  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 217 --- they would be incapable of seriously threatening South Vietnam/ The American ground forces had enormous superiority in firepower and operational mobility. Westmoreland concentrated on the enemy’s larger military units and launched massive "search and destroy" offensives to comer and kill as many VC/NVA as possible. The U.S. assumed that Rolling Thunder and pacification would undermine the communists’ ability to support and replenish units depleted through repeated ground engagements. Unfortunately, the VC/NVA had superior tactical mobility and could repeate