. By the end o f 1969, the Israeli Air Force (lAF) had handily defeated Egypt’s air defense system and inflicted serious damage to other military targets. Nevertheless, Egypt’s President, Gamel Nasser, refused to cease fighting. Therefore, in January 1970 Israel escalated again by bombing military targets deep within Egypt. During this period of the war, from January to April 1970, Israel’s use o f air power most closely resembled the traditional notion o f strategic bombing. Air strikes were made far from the battlefield with the primary intention o f affecting the will of the people and secondary goal o f hampering the Egyptian military’s ability to fight. The Israeli Air Force’s (lAF) deep strike campaign was atypical as it concentrated strictly on counterforce targets to undermine the population’s will.'’ Attempts to undermine the will usually include attacks on countervalue targets to “  Countervalue targets are those which are important to a state, yet not directly military, such as the economic infrastructure. Counterforce targets are formal components o f the military, such as bases or operational units. 114  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 127 --- increase economic costs, attacks on infrastructure targets such as electrical power systems to deprive civilians of living necessities, or, in the extreme, flattening cities. However, the lAF instead only concentrated on counterforce targets near populated areas to show the Egyptian government and people that continued conflict was too costly as well as to demonstrate Israeli military superiority. While the escalation in early 1970 increased the pressure on Egypt, it also provoked a Soviet military intervention to prevent another Egyptian defeat. Wanting to avoid a clash with the Soviets, Israel ceased the deep strikes in April 1970. During the final phase o f the war, from April to August 1970, Israel still hoped to compel Egypt to end the war. However, the air war took on a more tactical character as t