--- Surprisingly, the situation was not a total disaster. More of the countryside was safer and under South Vietnamese control than prior to 1968.™ Much of this resulted from a weakening of the VC and its political counterpart the Provisional Revolutionary Government (PRO, renamed from the NLF). The VC never recovered from the heavy losses it suffered during the Tet Offensive and later attacks in 1968. Moreover, some South Vietnamese governmental reforms, in combination with a reinvigorated and aggressive pacification program, increased efforts to lure defectors from the VC/PRG, and other counterinsurgency measures, took their toll on the insurgency movement. Consequently, the VC/PRG were not able to recruit enough Southerners to fill their ranks. Although many Northerners were sent south to join the VC and the PRG, they did not have the same familiarity with South Vietnam. Hence, the VC became less of a guerilla force and military/political weapon and more of conventional military force comprised o f light infantry.™ As a result, the insurgency waned. For example, the number o f assassinations and other low level harassments declined.’*  Thus, the countryside was actually safer on a day-to-day basis. Meanwhile, the NVA had become a more powerful force. With the decreasing strength o f the VC, Hanoi realized that military victory would have to come from the NVA. Eschewing the protracted guerilla effort, the NVA concentrated on developing more heavily armed conventional forces needed to conquer South Vietnam. Over the next four years, the Soviet Union and China sent North Vietnam hundreds o f tanks and heavy artillery pieces, as well as thousands of 266  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 279 --- trucks to move supplies and men. Instead of a light infantry force, the NVA became a more mobile, mechanized army that had significantly more firepower.’^ But it also was more cumbersome and was tethered to an exponentially larger logistical support network. Operation