ause capability was not significantly decreased. Instead, a leadership vulnerability was exploited and the will of a ruler was significantly affected. It is difficult to determine the exact reason for the Qaddafi’s reversal, but bombs dropping on the Aziziyah Barracks probably played a critical role. 350  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 363 --- Need for Usable Military Option This case also helps to illustrate the need for a usable military option regardless o f the amount o f military force used. In examining the case using George, et al.’s factors which favor coercive diplomacy, it is clear the U.S. did not have many of the factors firmly on its side.®* President Reagan’s communication ability and leadership garnered American support for pursuing a confrontational policy toward Libya. Nonetheless, while the U.S. government was highly motivated to combat terrorism and confront Qaddafi, it is not clear as to whether U.S. interests outweighed Libyan interests. Qaddafi apparently placed a very high value on his belligerent stand toward the West and terrorism was a dramatic part of his foreign policy. It is also unclear as to whether Qaddafi perceived the U.S. objectives and terms accurately. Military power was the tool by which the U.S. send the message to Qaddafi, expressed the extent of American interests and resolve, and demonstrated the credibility of the U.S. to mount a threat to Libya and Qaddafi. Thus, it was important to execute a military strategy which was appropriate and effective. The naval engagements failed to curb Qaddafi’s behavior, but the air raid had an effect. But there were no assurances that it would be effective. The bombing had to be painful not just to Libya, but even more importantly, Qaddafi. Damaging Libya’s oil infrastructure may have been painful to the state, but not necessarily Qaddafi. The same goes for most o f the Libyan military. Attacking these targets could have a significant negative impact on Qaddafi if it precipitated