le reactions also tempered U.S. actions. Therefore, Johnson wanted to keep the war as limited as possible. Yet, the failure to develop a suitable military strategy also played a major role in why Rolling Thunder failed. In fact. Rolling Thunder’s strategy shortcomings mirrored the deficiencies of the entire U.S. effort in Vietnam. Too much o f Rolling Thunder was a product of compromises and intergovernmental wrangling rather than an attempt to formulate a specific strategy to achieve a 239  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 252 --- specific operational objective(s) that would lead to compelling North Vietnam to alter its behavior. Escalations were made to placate the military and on the hope that destroying one more group of targets would achieve something tangible either on the battlefield or in negotiations. There was never an agreement by everyone involved to pursue a single, coherent strategy. And when the U.S. came closest to developing and executing a single strategy, economic infrastructure, it was totally unsuited for the Vietnam conflict. There was no question that the U.S. conventional military force was overwhelmingly more powerful than North Vietnam’s. But military superiority was not sufficient. The U.S. was never able to create a military strategy that would take into account the uniqueness of this conflict to achieve its objectives. Although other explanations for the U.S. failure are legitimate, military force was the primary method of gaining compellent leverage. The failure to construct an appropriate strategy meant the U.S. was unable to gain sufficient compellent leverage. Regardless o f other explanations, the military component was the fulcrum o f the operation. Its failure would undoubtedly lead to total failure. 240  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 253 --- CHAPTER SIX VIETNAM; PART II - THE LINEBACKER, CAMBODIA, AND LAOS CAMPAIGNS Although Rolling Thunder was a failure, not all the United States air power efforts in the Vie