ive military force. Nuclear devices solidified the Air Force’s evolution to a Douhet type strategy of obliterating cities in order to destroy the industrial heart of a state and crush the population’s spirit. States could be devastated by a handful o f atomic bombs, which would logically result in the elimination the ability and will to resist."^ Although the Air Force maintained this strategy was an extension of Mitchell’s concept of striking the vital centers, the magnitude o f destruction went far beyond Mitchell’s ideas. Even non-enthusiasts recognized the potential of air power delivering nuclear weapons. O f critical importance was the fact that strategic bombing became synonymous with nuclear warfare. Development o f theory and doctrine with conventional weapons fell by the wayside as the Air Force concentrated on incorporating nuclear weapons. Bombing doctrine and theory became stuck in place, and unfortunately, remained based solely on the World War II experience. The Air Force concluded the World War II "lesson learned" was that the most effective way to employ strategic bombing was to strike the opponent’s economic and industrial centers to destroy his war-making capability. But with a lack of further meaningful discussion, the concept of hitting the economic vital centers soon became the only way to use strategic bombing. The Air Force’s strategic bombing campaigns in Korea and Vietnam reflected this doctrinal vapor-lock.'^’ The shift to nuclear weapons was most pronounced under the leadership of General Curtis LeMay. He is considered the father o f the Air Force’s Strategic Air 64  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 77 --- Command (SAC), which he led from 1947 to 1957. He then became the Air Force Chief of Staff. LeMay was a strong proponent o f melding strategic bombing and nuclear weapons and turned SAC’s mission into delivering nuclear weapons.’-^ Strategic bombing with nuclear weapons still intended to target the opponent’s economic and indus