s within a framework which is not always particularly suited for compellence. In fact, not all compellent attempts are suited for, require, or even, permit such large uses of force. The limited nature of many compellent operations precludes massive bombing campaigns. Most often, political considerations limit the target selection. During the War o f Attrition, the Israeli government’s restrictions hampered its air force’s ability to achieve the political objectives. Unable to strike at targets deep within Egypt for most of the war, the lAF had to concentrate on Egypt’s fielded military forces. Parallel warfare was not an option 446  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 459 --- for most o f the war, and the lAF escalation with the deep strike operation in early 1970 led to a very counterproductive Soviet intervention. Furthermore, I believe the disproportional nature of this bombing strategy raises moral and even legal questions. The Gulf War demonstrated that parallel warfare can be too expansive for more limited objectives. While the U.S. air campaign apparently did not violate international law regarding the conduct o f war, the level of destruction is disturbing. J u s in b e llo  (law of war) is based on four principles, 1) military necessity, 2) discrimination between combatants and civilians, 3) proportionality, and 4) humanity." The U.S. military made serious efforts to reduce the number of civilian deaths during the bombing campaign. The widespread damage throughout Iraq undoubtedly weakened the state and its ability to wage war, but probably was overkill and pushed the limits of military necessity and proportionality. Pulverizing the infrastructure of Iraq to the extent the U.S. did may not have significantly added to the already large superiority the Allied forces held over the Iraqi forces. A lesser amount o f overall damage, specifically targeted on what Iraq really needed to support the war in Kuwait, i.e. the transportation and communication netwo