ndustry would further press Iran’s ability to support the war and maintain a viable economy. Attacking Iran’s oil exports had the added bonus of possibly drawing the Western Powers into the conflict. (Iraq only wanted the Western Powers, not the Gulf States directly involved.) Iraq hoped that Iran would overreact with numerous attacks on neutral shipping throughout the Persian Gulf and/or close the Straits o f Hormuz. This would force the Western Powers to intervene to ensure the safe passage of oil to their industrial economies.”  Iraq assumed they would be interested in seeing the war end and would pressure both sides to end the war. As Iraq wanted the war to end, this would benefit Iraq much more Iran. The final part o f Iraq’s strategy was to shake the Iranian population’s faith in their government’s proclamations of victory and ability to protect them. Iraqi officials even admitted publicly that the War of the Cities was intended to bring the war to the Iranian people and hopefully foster dissent and rebellion.®” Therefore, Iraq launched attacks on urban areas with both aircraft and ballistic missiles (armed with conventional warheads). Not attempting to destroy entire cities Iraq instead used a punishment strategy by launching enough bombing sorties and missile launches to disrupt activities, cause some casualties, and create fear and discontent 382  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 395 --- in the population. In fact, it is doubtful whether Iraq could have executed a more intense campaign.^ Countervalue Operations The Tanker War began slowlyIraq  had previously bombed Kharg Island and other oil facilities in 1981 and 1982 a number of times, but failed to inflict heavy damage.*' In July 1983, Iraq warned that it would attack economic targets if Iran did not cease its offensives on Iraq. In August, Iraq declared an "exclusion zone" around Kharg Island and warned foreign shipping to stay away.*’ However, Iraq did little to actually carry out its threats,