nfluence in North Vietnam, the Chinese prevented some Soviet shipments from reaching North Vietnam.” ®  Although heavily bombed, the land route from China was never fully broken and a ground line from China replaced the lost seaborne shipments o f oil from the Soviet Union.” ' As an interdiction tool. Linebacker I could not shut down North Vietnam’s military, but it could apply enough disruptive pressure to hamper significantly North Vietnam’s ability to regroup to repel ARVN attacks and to prepare for another offensive. The later infrastructure attacks further deteriorated North Vietnam’s long-term ability to wage war. For example, most o f the fixed POL storage sites were destroyed as was about 70 percent o f North Vietnam’s electrical generating capacity.'”  Thus, Linebacker I was, and would continue to be, a serious drain on North Vietnam’s long-term military capability. An important factor in Linebacker I’s success was North Vietnam’s shift to a more conventional warfare. This change increased the effectiveness of U.S. air 283  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 296 --- power. On the tactical level, bombing tanks and massed infantry units was considerably easier and more productive than attacking small, scattered guerilla/light infantry forces. Moreover, the NVA forces needed much more logistical support. The Communists could not rely on porters carrying ammunition o f their backs, but instead had to rely on much more easily destroyed truck convoys. Tactical bombing successfully disrupted North Vietnam’s effort to keep front-line units supplied as they moved deeper into South Vietnam. Linebacker I curtailed the vitally needed Soviet supplies from entering North Vietnam. While it may not have had an immediate battlefield impact, the decrease o f external support limited the NVA’s overall capability. Likewise, the economic infrastructure attacks that had failed in Rolling Thunder because its destruction had little impact on the war in the South now were mo