oercion by attacking the civilian population and damaging industry had failed.^® ' The Germans did not realize the extent of the damage they inflicted to the RAF and the British air defense. This exemplified the continuing problem o f battle damage assessment. 39  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 52 --- In the latter stages of the war, the Germans launched another aerial bombardment campaign against Britain, this time with the V-1 and V-2 missiles. Both were too inaccurate to allow for anything approaching attacks on specific military or economic targets. The sole object o f the V weapons was terror. Hitler may have hoped to convince Britain to negotiate in the face o f demoralizing missile attacks. As during the earlier Blitz, the Germans succeeded in killing thousands of civilians and alarming the Allied leadership, but were not able to break the British spirit, nor change the course o f the war.^^ The Western Allies in Europe The Allied strategic bombing campaign in Europe was more enigmatic. While the aerial leadership had great faith in strategic bombing, the Allied High Command was considerably less optimistic. A reflection o f this belief was the continued diversion o f strategic bombers from attacks on Germany to support ground operations. Nevertheless, the Allied strategic bombing campaign attempted to apply compellent leverage on Germany through urban and selective attacks. Moreover, toward the end of the war the Allied leadership became enamored with the concept of an aerial "deathblow"; a massive aerial assault to shatter Germany’s cities and force Germany to submit. 40  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 53 --- The General Pressure Operation The primary application of the Allied strategic bombing campaign was to apply general pressure on Germany. At the Casablanca Conference in January 1943 the Western Allied military and political leadership determined that the aerial offensive should aim to bring about the "progressive destruction of t