t the bargaining table was to demonstrate an ability to deny military capability. With the DRV’s greater emphasis on territorial control. Linebacker I and the tactical bombings were perfectly suited to accomplish military denial. Linebacker I was well designed to seriously impede the flow o f materials into North Vietnam and, to a lesser extent, southward to the battlefield. Additionally, the U.S. made excellent use of precision guided munitions to enhance the destructive power of the bombing. Laser guided bombs especially made easy and quick work of bridges that had proved extremely difficult to destroy during Rolling Thunder. The total closure o f North Vietnam’s ports cut off much of the critically needed Soviet equipment. The important shift was to interdict supplies coming in, not out of, North Vietnam. The NVA’s shift to more conventional warfare indicated that interdiction along the Ho Chi Minh Trail should be more effective. However, the difficulties in interdicting along this stretch of terrain and North Vietnam’s countermeasures nullified any gains due to increased supply needs (see appendix below). A continuation o f this strategy would not have had as much affect on North Vietnam’s military capability and would not have exerted as much compellent leverage. Consequently, it was important to develop the proper strategy to exploit North Vietnam’s vulnerability. 301  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 314 --- If Linebacker was Successful in 1972, What About in 1965? By the time the war ended, there were already proclamations that air power had been vindicated in 1972. Linebacker I and II were seen as examples of what air power could accomplish without the shackles o f Washington control. Some people soon claimed that if Linebacker I and/or II had been executed in 1965 (or anytime before Tet), the U.S. could have compelled North Vietnam to settle,” ®  I will briefly analyze this conjecture because it clearly demonstrates how the conditions o f the conf