ng; transporting equipment and supplies, reconnaissance, delivering nuclear weapons, and bombing with conventional weapons. Conventional weapons being high explosives, incendiaries, and such; basically all weapons besides nuclear, chemical, and biological. ^ Strategic bombing targets the ability and/or will o f a state to wage war or conduct a specific behavior. The other type o f bombing, tactical, targets opposing military forces in direct support o f ground or naval fighting. Tactical bombing is of less interest to my presentation due to its subordinate nature. Only that tactical bombing which is directly involved in a strategic bombing campaign will be included in this discussion. It is important to note that my definition of strategic bombing is very expansive. I do not envision strategic bombing to mean only campaigns similar to the massive Allied operations against Germany during World War II. Instead, strategic bombing is any aerial bombing operation that targets the ability and/or will of the state to wage war or conduct a specific behavior regardless o f the operation’s size, scope or intensity. The term conventional strategic bombing is cumbersome. In this dissertation, strategic bombing denotes conventional strategic bombing unless otherwise specifically noted. Hence, nuclear and chemical weapons are not included.  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 22 --- This variation in outcomes is the source of my primary inquiry. Upon demonstrating that it is important to have a usable and effective military strategy available, 1  want to identify which strategic bombing strategies are most effective in achieving compellence.' In other words, I am exploring the dynamics o f how strategic bombing influences the outcome of a compellent attempt. To answer this, I will examine a number of strategic bombing campaigns to gain understanding of whether and how they have exerted compellent leverage. I will also draw conclusions as to how to exert the maximum compelli