mbing efforts caused little material damage. The German war economy was not disrupted by the bombing and the German civilian morale was not seriously weakened. The French, who began the Allied strategic bombing effort in 1915, believed air power would be best utilized by attacking specific targets whose destruction would disrupt a critical element in the German wartime industry. The French, in part because they were more exposed to retaliation, did not think highly of indiscriminate city bombing. Therefore, the French attacked the blast furnaces in the Saar, Lorraine, and 25  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 38 --- Luxembourg, which produced about half the German steel production, and the rail system supporting the iron ore mines.” The French also targeted German air fields and supply dumps.” Altogether, the French dropped some 1,800 tons of bombs with only negligible results. Prohibitive losses dissuaded the French from continuing daylight bombing and night bombing was too inaccurate to allow for effective industrial bombing.” The idea for selective bombing was forming but the technology was too limited and the targeted systems too large and complex for the bombings to be effective. The British did not officially establish its Independent Bombing Force until June 1918. Ironically, although its leader. Sir Hugh Trenchard, became knovra as one of the fathers of strategic bombing, he was reluctant to form an independent air service. Trenchard believed that the war would be won on the ground and an Independent Bombing Foree would divert resources away from the ground effort.” The British civilian leadership had to push a skeptical military leadership toward adopting strategic bombing. During the summer and fall of 1918, British and American forces carried out a strategic bombing campaign on cities in Germany in the Ruhr and Rhineland.” Although the British and Americans dropped more bombs than Germany did on Britain, the physical damage was essentially the sam