operations, such as Rolling Thunder in Vietnam, during the Gulf War the U.S.’ political and military objectives were very similar. The most important political objectives were to secure the unconditional withdrawal o f Iraq from Kuwait and to eliminate Iraq’s offensive military capability to increase security and stability with the Gulf region.”®  The military objectives were to expel the Iraqi Army from Kuwait while inflicting serious damage to Iraq’s military forces and war-making capability. Achieving the military objectives would simultaneously accomplish the political ones. Moreover, the military objectives were tied to territorial control. Consequently, the most appropriate use o f strategic bombing was to deny military capability. And due to the highly mechanized nature o f the war (which requires enormous support). Warden’s five-ring strategy was ideally suited for this conflict. In early August Col. Warden put together the foundations for the Coalition’s aerial campaign, focusing on strategic bombing to disrupt Iraq’s ability to wage war. The first plan, named Instant Thunder, called for a six-day aerial blitz to ^ There were other adjunct objectives, such as restore the Kuwaiti government to power and to provide safety for Americans abroad. The goal o f toppling Hussein was more o f a hope than a concrete objective. The top U.S. policy-makers would have liked Hussein to fall from power, but did not take actions to ensure this. 500  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 513 --- incapacitate and isolate the Iraqi leadership and disrupt military capabilities. This plan reflected Warden’s thinking as it detailed some 84 specific targets from five strategic categories that matched his five-ring concept o f the centers of gravity; leadership, key production, infrastructure, population, and fielded military forces.*” Warden was confident that Instant Thunder could compel Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait without a ground war. However, the U.S.’ military and civili