mpellence. 427  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 440 --- Thus, it is critical to have a credible military option that can place sufficient pressure tailored to the particular coercive diplomacy/compellent objective. Indeed, the key is to develop a strategy that exerts sufficient compellent leverage. Numerous other authors have attempted to determine which strategy is most effective, but have fallen short. I now turn to this subject. Strategic Bombing in a Compellent Role Most of the strategy regarding strategic bombing and compellence has focused on the what is vulnerable and important in the targeted state. Theorists have used two broad approaches to discuss what they believed was vulnerable and important; inflicting punishment and denying military capability. In the following pages I will show that both these approaches have shortcomings which prevent them from being the last word on strategic bombing and compellence theory. Emphasizing pain via the pulverization and punishment strategies has fallen short of being a reliable method of achieving compellence. This strategy works poorly when used as the primary compellent mechanism, but can contribute to a compellent success. Military denial is more successful at exerting compellent pressure, but the economic infrastructure and the parallel warfare strategies suffer from lack o f applicability across the wide spectrum o f compellent operations. These two strategies also emphasize targeting to the detriment of overall strategy. Robert Pape’s expansive discussion of military denial strategy fails to appreciate the 428  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 441 --- value of pain and suffers from an simplification o f bombing strategies and their effects. The attempts to develop theory based primarily on the targeted state’s vulnerabilities and important aspects have failed. Therefore, I will argue that instead of focusing on what is going on in the target state, it is more important for policy-makers to det