the U.S. Israel simply could not afford to risk losing U.S. support as Soviet intervention in Egypt was increasing. In addition, the challenge to Israel’s air superiority seriously undermined its military strategy and its confidence. The lAF was supposed to be the invincible shield and sword of Israel and the whole state was shocked with the losses. The lAF could not go on with the current loss rate, but it did not have any acceptable military alternatives."® It could not escalate with more deep penetration strikes without creating a large confrontation with the Soviets. Nor did Israel have any way of neutralizing the SAM system without suffering prohibitive losses. Israel was in a comer and needed a way out. 152129  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 165 --- Aftermath On 31 July, the Israeli government officially announced its acceptance o f the Rogers II Plan and a ceasefire was planned for 8 August.'®”  Although the plan got both sides to stop shooting, it failed to get them talking. In September 1970, Israel withdrew from the scheduled negotiations to protest massive violations by the Soviets and Egyptians of the freeze on the military situation within 50 km of the Canal.'®' Peace between Israel and Egypt would not come until after the Yom Kippur War in 1973. Who Won? The end o f the War of Attrition saw both sides falling short o f reaching their respective objectives. Israel maintained control o f the entire Sinai Peninsula, but not before significant changes had occurred in the military and political scene in the Middle East. Although both sides claimed victory, in reality, the indecisive outcome would indicate a draw. Israel did lose, to a degree, its qualitative military edge over Egypt. With Soviet assistance, Egypt was able to challenge Israel’s control of the air over Egypt and the west bank of Suez Canal. This loss of air control was to play a critical role during the Yom Kippur War in 1973 when Egypt’s neutralization o f the lAF allowed it to se