d on a sustained basis, quality intelligence gathering to identify targets, and a willingness to accept losses to achieve the mission. These traits, all indicative of a professional force, were in short supply during much of the war. Interestingly, ground-to-ground ballistic missiles had an important impact on the war. Iraq and Iran used missiles on a limited basis from the earliest stages of the war. These initial sporadic attacks on urban areas had slight effect. But in the spring of 1988, Iraq unleashed nearly 200 missiles (primarily modified SCUDs) against Iran’s key cities. While the physical damage was not extensive, the psychological damage was significant. Exploiting a war-weary, demoralized population, the inability of the Iranian military to strike back, and fear of escalation to chemical warfare, the missiles greatly affected the Iranian people. Thousands 356  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 369 --- fled Tehran and discontent over the war steepened. This exerted pressure on the Iranian government, whose primary foundation for the war effort was the willingness o f the Iranian people to die for the cause. Unable to rally the people, the Iranian war effort was seriously undermined. And because the war and the Revolution were intertwined, by extension, support for the Revolution also waned. This was one of several factors which forced Iran to accept an UN brokered ceasefire in July 1988. This conflict is an example o f why it is just as important to be able to execute, not just possess, a suitable military option. During the war, there were military strategies that could exert significant compellent leverage on each side. However, neither state executed such a strategy effectively. The foremost example was the failure of Iraq and Iran to exploit the oil revenue vulnerability to the fullest extent. Iraq had more capability to implement its military option, but never pressed its advantage to yield the maximum pressure. Consequently, this case shows t