between states are essentially bargaining situations. Consequently, conflict analysis could be reduced to a study o f bargaining factors. " Crisis behavior examines the period of time of heightened tensions when decisions and actions are made which result in either war or resolution. As with coercive warfare, it has a narrower scope than my research; that being shooting conflicts. '' Schelling was not the first to expound on this concept. Daniel Ellsberg had already addressed this subject in The Theory and Practice of Blackmail. (1959). However, Schelling’s work is among the earliest and is perhaps the most articulate and eloquent, therefore, he is the best example to discuss. 74  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 87 --- such as willingness to endure risk and punishment, interests involved, and commitment. Schelling focused on coercive warfare (and deterrence), excluding the traditional military strategy from coercion. Coercive warfare attempts to achieve objectives by utilizing military force to inflict pain rather than to defeat the opposing armed forces. Schelling stressed the manipulation o f punishment and pain as critical mechanisms in the processes of coercive warfare and deterrence. Punishment would test the balance o f interests and commitment between states. Success in coercive warfare could be achieved by demonstrating the capability to inflict and/or actually inflicting more punishment than the opponent believes is worth the benefits of continuing the conflict. Thus, when punishment is combined with threats to inflict more punishment it should be possible to coerce an opponent to adopt a favorable behavior.'^^ Moreover, Schelling accurately perceived problems in the terminology. As a result, he created "compellence" to distinguish between the two other strategies, deterrence and coercion. Generally, but not always, compellence and deterrence are the converse o f each other, one offensive and one defensive. Coercion can include both compellent and