to inflict pain and increase the cost of fighting to an intolerable level. 157  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 170 --- ceasefire by disrupting Egypt’s ability to conduct the War o f Attrition while exacting a heavy toll on Egypt’s military and securing air superiority which could obviously lead to bombing throughout Egypt. The military objectives were shifted to emphasize diminishing Egypt’s ability to wage attritional warfare rather than to preventing a cross-Canal attack. Rather than wipe out Egypt’s ability to support military operations, Israel planned to out-attrit the attriters. The task o f out-attriting the large Egyptian military was a tall order for the small lAF. It would have been easier to knock out Egypt’s logistical and command and control network. But even their destruction would have only diminished, not necessarily destroyed, Egypt’s ability to conduct attritional warfare. Meanwhile, the damage to military forces would be the pain and punishment needed to convince Nasser to end the war. A punishment strategy entails attacking high value targets to induce a settlement. Often this means an emphasis on non­ military targets, usually economic, whose destruction affects the entire victim state. Israel, however, believed the continual attrition on Egypt’s military would be a sufficient high cost to Nasser. This failing, Israel hoped that when the lAF firmly established air superiority over Egypt, Nasser would recognize the vulnerability of his state to a widespread, intense bombing campaign throughout Egypt and he would concede. Although his military was losing during the latter half of 1969, Nasser refused to accept a ceasefire. The lAF was simply unable to win a decisive military 158  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 171 --- victory or increase the costs o f fighting the war to where Nasser would be forced to accept a ceasefire. Although the lAF could neutralize Egypt’s artillery, the inherent limitations o f air power in a static w