he control of territory can lead to achieving the political objectives. The problem arises when strategic bombing is called upon to achieve ' I am referring to conventional military operations here. On the other hand, guerrilla warfare usually does not have strict territorial control or large-scale destruction of enemy military forces as primary objectives. 451  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 464 --- political objectives which are not tied to territorial control. Air power tends to fail in these situations because it has less ability to influence the political dimension. The best example is the Vietnam War. The U.S. political objective in Vietnam in 1972 was to preserve South Vietnam while American forces withdrew. To achieve compellence, the U.S. had to prevent a North Vietnamese conquest and demonstrate that the North Vietnamese Army could not seize South Vietnam with the U.S. still involved. Adopting military denial was the best choice because air power could influence who controlled most o f the territory in South Vietnam. However, during Rolling Thunder, the U.S.’ political objective was not tied to territorial control, instead it was to compel North Vietnam to end its involvement in the conflict.^ Therefore, strategic bombing was ill-suited for gaining compellent leverage through military denial and, as I already stated, the punishment strategy could not exert much compellent leverage. In sum, the military and political objectives should be as closely related as possible to facilitate compellent success using military denial.*' Strategic bombing is most effective against a mechanized army. This type of force is most often used in fluid combat over large swaths o f territory and aims to destroy the opposing force rapidly. But strategic bombing can also have an j North Vietnam and the Viet Cong could never seize South Vietnam through direct military conquest after the introduction o f American ground troops. '' The Korean War was similar. With no sign