re of deterrence. But deterrence is a different issue than compellence. 425  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 438 --- often, social scientists gloss over the details of military action and strategy when discussing coercion and compellence. There has been little imperative to determine how military force can be specifically tailored to yield compellent success. Although George, et al., were looking at coercive diplomacy operations which inherently entail the least amount of military force, even these require precise uses o f military pressure. Military force is often the most important, and most visible, "stick" o f the carrots and sticks used during coercive diplomacy and more violent compellent operations. Regardless of the other factors and issues involved, a flawed execution of military force can seriously undermine the coercive diplomacy/compellence effort. The level of military force used is not critical to its relevancy, meaning that this factor is important in both coercive diplomacy and compellence. Even in two cases that George considered coercive diplomacy, Libya and early Rolling Thunder, and featured only limited application of military force, the particular strategy for using air power made a difference in these operations success and failure. An inferior operation, such as during early Rolling Thunder, provides little coercive pressure and weakens credibility by being perceived as a lack o f resolve or ability to project power. The U.S. had overwhelming military superiority but could not translate that into an application of military force which would lead to successful compellence. The War o f Attrition provides another example. The Israeli Air Force (lAF) executed its operations at an exceedingly high level of proficiency; no other air force could have done the same. However, the Israeli 426  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 439 --- government chose objectives beyond the reach of air power, while limiting the lA F’s available strate