and fomenting domestic dissent in the U.S. Nonetheless, Hanoi indicated some flexibility by seemingly lowering its demand from a total communist takeover to a coalition government in South Vietnam.'”  Regardless, by the summer o f 1967, Hanoi had decided on a new offensive strategy whose centerpiece attack was planned for the Tet holiday in January 1968. Once this decision was made it is likely North Vietnam was not interested in any substantive progress in negotiations.'” Rolling Thunder - November 1966 to March 1968 Over these sixteen months. Rolling Thunder escalated in spurts toward a strategy o f attacking North Vietnam’s industrial infrastructure to deprive its capability and willingness to wage war. This came against the recommendations of McNamara, who backed the Jason Summer Study’s recommendation of establishing an infiltration barrier system across the DMZ (between the two Vietnams) and the Laotian panhandle. In fact, after the summer o f 1966 he never supported another bombing escalation or additional troop deployment.'”  However, the barrier system was too defensive for the U.S. military and Johnson to accept. McNamara’s influence increasingly weakened over the last 16 months as he became more opposed to the course of the war and by implication, Johnson’s policies. Interestingly, an unconditional bombing halt was never seriously considered. Not only was there hope that Rolling Thunder could eventually have some positive 211  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 224 --- affect, there was a strong belief that simply stopping Rolling Thunder would be a major loss o f prestige for the U.S. as the U.S. would not gain any concession in return. It would also appear as if the U.S. was doing less than it could for its soldiers fighting in South Vietnam. This would probably undermine morale in the U.S. soldiers in South Vietnam.'™ Moreover, public sentiment ran solidly against any unilateral halt. * ’*  However, the concept of Rolling Thunder as a bargaining