. Interdiction made up the bulk o f the bombing strikes and lasted its entire duration from April 1965 to November 1968. Over 90 percent o f ordnance expended during Rolling Thunder was aimed at transportation targets.’ However, North Vietnam did not seem to feel much pain with the damage to many bridges, roads, trails, railroads, trucks, trains, and boats 171  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 184 --- (and not a few people). To increase the pressure/pain and hamper North Vietnam’s military activity. President Johnson eventually agreed to the military’s urgings to authorize a gradual economic infrastructure strategy that took over a year to reach full intensity. In July 1966, American planes bombed North Vietnam’s petroleum facilities and during the spring and fall of 1967 executed a classic economic infrastructure operation that finally wiped out North Vietnam’s meager industrial capacity. While the interdiction, POL (petroleum, oil, and lubricants), and economic infrastructure attacks were intended to affect the military situation, the destruction o f these targets would obviously also inflict punishment on North Vietnam. Regardless o f the chosen strategy or target selection. Rolling Thunder was unable to achieve its grand objective of compellence or even its lesser goals.® All efforts to force North Vietnam to change its behavior or extract concessions from North Vietnam proved fruitless. Nor did Rolling Thunder decrease North Vietnam’s capability to support the war in the south to a level which would significantly affect the communists’ ability to prosecute the war. ®  When analyzing Rolling Thunder its is important to distinguish its performance from that of the U.S. effort as a whole in Southeast Asia. It is easy to view Rolling Thunder only as part of the abject failure o f U.S. policy and the eventual fall o f South Vietnam. This misses the crucial analysis o f Rolling Thunder as a compellence mechanism. Instead, Rolling Thunder should be judged pri