chieve the desired political objectives. Strategic bombing has often been called upon to accomplish tasks far beyond its means and/or used in confliets which it is very ill-suited. Due to a lack of understanding o f air power, it is little wonder strategic bombing has not been overly successful. Policy-makers and military leaders were often forced to rely on perceptions of what they thought bombing could achieve rather than thorough analysis and theory. It is crucial to understand why strategic bombing succeeds or fails and how it relates to the larger military-political situation. The failures o f bombings were not always due to its inherent weaknesses. Strategic bombing is but one mechanism that can influence military and political affairs in complex environments. Rather than focus on what air power succeeded or failed to accomplish, one should examine what a particular state succeeded or failed to achieve with air power in the context o f its objectives. The discussion should focus on how strategic bombing can influence a conflict’s military and political situation. After all, compellence is an attempt to influence the military/political environment to achieve objectives. Strategic bombing may not be able to win a war, but it clearly has demonstrated an ability to influence the course of a conflict in favor o f the bombing state. Understanding how air power can influence a conflict is infinitely more instructive than debating the relevancy of strategic bombing in terms of how many wars it has won. Most previous analysis of strategic bombing has attempted to develop a parsimonious theory which explains and predicts its most effective usage. Indeed, 421  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 434 --- strategic bombing and compellent theorists believe that what is vulnerable and important in the targeted state are the best determinants o f the proper strategy. They believe that either inflicting pain and or disrupting military capability is the key to success. Th