raids. In May, Israel suffered the highest losses of any single month during the conflict.®® Meanwhile, Egyptian soldiers and workers hastened their construction o f the physical infrastructure for SAM batteries within 20 to 30 km o f the Suez Canal. The lAF responded with intense bombing of both the artillery pieces and the effort to build SAM sites. The lAF took a heavy toll; the Egyptians later admitted to losing some 1,000 to 2,000 men during May.®* For the moment, the lAF had successfully blunted the Soviet/Egyptian effort to build a SAM barrier within 40 km of the Canal.® ® The Israeli government became very concerned with the Soviet/Egyptian operations, elevating the importance of the fighting along the Canal into the battle o f critical national security.'®® If they were able to seize control o f the air over the Canal, Israel would be hard-pressed to hold the Bar-Lev Line. Without air protection, the 1,000 Israelis on the Bar-Lev Line would be overwhelmed by the 100,000 Egyptians on the west bank o f the Canal. The lAF was supposed to be the equalizer by preventing large cross-Canal attacks and disrupting Egyptian artillery units and concentrations of soldiers.'®' Because the Israeli government had decided not to give up any territory under military pressure, the Suez Canal became the inviolable border. Therefore, as the Soviets seriously threatened Israel’s control o f the air over the Canal, Israel reacted ferociously. While the overriding 146  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 159 --- goal was to end the War of Attrition, the immediate aim was to retain control o f the air near the Suez Canal.'®® Israel fell back to the strategy o f military denial. Fears o f a confrontation with Soviet personnel limited the lAF’s operations to within 40 km of the Canal. This geographic limitation, when combined with the focus on attacking the air defense system, left the lAF with the only option of attriting fielded military forces. Again, Israel was not able to