e to conquer the opposing state to achieve the political objectives, but the key is whether the intent o f compellence is present. For example, the Allies in World War II had to completely conquer Germany to achieve an unconditional ®  The traditional military strategy invariably leads to territorial occupation as well. Unable to seize territory, air power’s ability to independently achieve compellence in these cases is inherently more restricted than with coercive diplomacy or coercion. However, I am not interested in determining whether air power can "win wars". Instead, I want to examine the dynamics o f how military force is used to achieve political objectives.  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 18 --- surrender. But they most likely would have accepted an unconditional surrender offer in January or February 1945. Indeed, forcing Germany to surrender was a driving force behind the bombing of Dresden in February 1945. Therefore, the Allies’  campaign should be considered a compellent operation using the traditional military strategy.'* Usable Military Option Alexander George’s work on coercive diplomacy is a crucial part o f the literature on coercion/compellence."* While George and his co-authors did not * *  It is important to note that equating compellence with the attainment of political objectives across the spectrum of using military force is a different definition of compellence than Thomas Schelling proposes. Dr. Schelling believes compellence is achieving political objectives with mostly threats o f military force, far short of including the traditional military strategy. I wanted to use a term that described the how states use military force to achieve political objectives that would apply across a wide range of more practical operations. Far too often discussions of employing military force use the nebulous term o f "victory" to describe conflict termination. Only rarely do states intend to exterminate a people or wantonly destroy. Even in cas