ion and Iraq’s leadership. If the U.S. was only interested in seeing Iraq withdraw from Kuwait, compellence may have been possible without the ground war. In a larger sense, the effects of precision-guided munitions may not be so long lasting. The history o f warfare is replete with offensive innovations and defensive reactions. It is probable that some countermeasures will be developed to lessen the impact o f smart weapons. 444  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 457 --- Military Denial Much o f the discussion of strategic bombing has focused on attacking the enemy’s military capability. Mitchell advocated bombing the economic infrastructure to deprive a state of its capability to support its military force. Later, John Warden elaborated the centers o f gravity concept into his five-ring model. He identified the economic infrastructure as one of the five centers o f gravity; the others being leadership, organic essentials (primarily energy), population, and fielded military forces. Warden was more expansive in his strategy, positing that system-wide attacks throughout the state were the best approach, otherwise known as parallel warfare. This would seriously disrupt the targeted state’s ability to wage war. However, there are problems with Mitchell’s and Warden’s writings.^ First and foremost, both suffer from a lack of suitability for all cases. Mitchell’s theory is not nearly flexible enough for the wide range o f conflicts states actually face. Destroying the economic infrastructure of a state is not always feasible, desirable, or even relevant to the compellent issue in question. Although broader in scope. ®  Even though I harp on deficiencies with Warden’s work, I must also come to his defense. For the most part, his writings had focused on air power as a whole. Strategic bombing is merely one aspect of his work. Furthermore, he concentrated on the operational level of analysis. It is not surprising he would look to centers of gravity which stresses ta