m threatening North Vietnam military capability. Commando Hunt had some effect on North Vietnam’s military capability, but not enough to threaten the North’s ability to seize South Vietnam. China and the Soviet Union were still providing enough supplies and equipment to replace any losses. It is difficult to assess Commando Hunt’s countervalue worth. North Vietnam generally seemed oblivious to personnel losses and these bombings did not inflict as many casualties as the ground operations in South Vietnam did. There is no indication the constant attrition had much of a psychological impact in Hanoi. In sum, interdiction o f the Ho Chi Minh Trail in 1970 did no better than Rolling Thunder’s interdiction efforts of 1965-8. 310  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 323 --- CHAPTER SEVEN THE 1986 UNITED STATES STRIKE ON LIBYA Early in the morning o f 15 April 1986, American bombers descended on Libya to strike targets near Tripoli and Benghazi. President Reagan proclaimed the raid was an act of pre-emptive self-defense to protect Americans from further terrorist acts. The United States government proffered evidence that Libya was not only a major supporter of terrorism, but that Libyan intelligence officers and their terrorist minions were planning additional operations. Actually, the United States government launched the raid with the larger objective o f compelling Libya to curtail its support and use of terrorism.' During the 1980s, the U.S. had grown increasingly alarmed at the spiraling amount o f terrorism, especially that aimed at Western interests. The domestic pressure to act was high, but the Reagan administration was beset by internal squabbling over the proper reaction to terrorism. Eventually, the U.S. decided to increase pressure on those states that support terrorism. There was no better target for this effort than Libya. For many years leading up to the 1986 attack, Libya had clearly supported and instigated terrorism in the Middle East and Europe. C