rastructure, population, and fielded military forces.*” Warden was confident that Instant Thunder could compel Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait without a ground war. However, the U.S.’ military and civilian high- level leaders were not so convinced o f air power’s efficacy. Instant Thunder also concentrated on Iraq’s strategic fielded military forces (i.e., bombers, missiles and air defense system), not the Iraqi Army in Kuwait. Consequently, General Schwarzkopf’s (and, of all people, the air commander General Horner) skepticism forced the air war planners to increase the emphasis on Iraq’s forces in Kuwait to facilitate the seemingly inevitable ground war. The eventual air war plan developed into three phases: Phase I was essentially the expansion o f Instant Thunder into the strategic air campaign to disrupt Iraq’s war-making capability; Phase II was to gain air superiority over the Kuwaiti and southern Iraq; and Phase III was to soften up the Iraqi Army for the ground assault. (Phase IV was the ground attack.) *  There were nine target sets distributed over the five strategic rings. To strike the leadership, the plan called for direct incapacitation attacks and cutting communication links. Key production had four target sets: electricity; oil distribution and storage facilities; NBC research and production; and military industry and logistics. Infrastructure attacks would focus on railroads and bridges. Direct attacks on the population would be replaced by psychological weapons, leaflets and such. 501  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 514 --- The Coalition conducted the air campaign’s three phases more or less simultaneously. American planes quickly seized complete aerial superiority by driving the Iraqi Air Force from the air, demolishing the cohesiveness o f Iraq’s air defense system, and systematically destroying Iraq’s air fields. Then, over the next five weeks American air power savaged Iraq’s military industry, logistical and supply facilities, power p