in the Gulf used by Iran to coordinate attacks on shipping. The Iranian Navy sailed out to fight and immediately lost a frigate, a missile-armed patrol boat, several small attack craft, and had another frigate severely damaged. In a single day, Iran had lost half its operational large ships, although it still had many tens of less capable small attack crafts.” ® It is hard to understand why Iran decided to fight the superior U.S. forces. The highest levels o f the Iranian government probably made the decision due to the time elapsed between initial fighting and Iranian Naval response.” ®  The Iranians may have wanted to influence fickle American public opinion against keeping U.S. forces in harm’s way and maybe getting in a lucky shot. But it also may have been the result o f an Iranian perception o f an U.S.-Iraq collusion in the war.” ’ Regardless, the U.S. Congress quickly came out in support o f the Reagan administration. ” ®  Any hope of forcing the U.S. out of the Gulf had failed. Moreover, the U.S. then changed its policy to include defending non-U.S. flagships under attack.” ’ This subtle shift dealt a substantial blow to Iran’s ability to 407  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 420 --- harass shipping as American ships now were theoretically protecting every ship in the Gulf. Iraq’s maritime interdiction campaign was also continuing, but at a lessening pace. In mid-May, an Iraqi raid heavily damaged the oil export facility at Larak and oil tankers there. However, the ground war successes apparently tempered Hussein’s desire to prosecute the Tanker War.”®  Hussein still saw the compellent operation has more of an infliction of moderated pain to force a cease-fire rather than total war. As Iraq achieving more on the ground, the number of maritime strikes fell. This reduction may have also been partially due to the diversion of airplanes to support ground operations. Iran Vulnerable Thus, by June 1988 a confluence of events and trends had put Iran on th