iously, there were significant factors beyond the 1986 raid which caused Qaddafi’s change in policy. Nonetheless, the 1986 raid probably played some role in the moderation effort. The raid demonstrated Libya’s isolation in the world. Facing a declining economy and rapidly deteriorating status in the international community, Qaddafi discovered he had no staunch, reliable allies. Indeed, the raid seemed to mark the beginning o f the fall.® ® 348  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 361 --- Analysis of the Success It is now pertinent to examine why air power was effective. There was no denial of capability because the physical damage to Libya’s terrorist infrastructure was not sufficient to cause a significant decrease in Libya’s support o f terrorism. The raid did not strike Qaddafi primary base of power, the military. Nor did the raid hit the vital oil industries. Yet, compellence emerged from the exploitation of a vulnerability, the leadership’s will. During a single strike, the most important target in Libya was not the logistical infrastructure which supported terrorism, but the desire and will o f its dictator to support terrorism. The U.S. attempted a shock strategy with each target clearly linked to terrorism. This operational plan could have easily forced the bombers to hit targets o f dubious value.® ®  As populations are less affected by bombing raids that present remote danger, bombing some terrorist camps in the Libyan desert would have provided little immediate impact on Qaddafi. Nevertheless, the raid was able to affect Qaddafi’s will. Probably this is because the operational objectives had a obvious relation with the political objective o f intimidating Qaddafi. Instead o f striking some distant target, the U.S. planes went directly after the source of the problem. O f course, Qaddafi may have been unnerved simply by American warplanes bombing Libya. If this is so, the exact targets would not have mattered that much. Compellence would have been ac