Vietnam while signaling it was willing to negotiate. The U.S. government hoped the message to Hanoi would be clear, negotiate or suffer damage of increasing value.*® These early discussions showed the differing rationales for bombing North Vietnam. Option C, the punishment strategy, was favored by the civilians, who ^  Bombing North Vietnam was not the only pressure discussed, nor were these options just about increasing pressure. The bombing aspects are simply the most relevant. 182  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 195 --- tended to see the bombing as political tool to aid in bargaining for a negotiated settlement. The key to Option C would be delivering some pain and conveying the threat o f future pain to North Vietnam to alter their cost-to-benefit ratio and to signal U.S. resolve. On the other hand, the military saw it more as an effort to deny the capability to support/fight the war in the south and pulverize the will of the North Vietnamese. Their preferred option, B, would inflict massive destruction in North Vietnam that would deprive it of its ability to support the war (as well as inflicted considerable pain). It was a classic economic infrastructure strategy.*’ Interestingly, even at this time, there were serious doubts as to whether Hanoi’s will and resolve to continue the conflict could ever be broken.** The working group rejected Option A because it considered it a prelude to withdrawal. Instead, the working group eventually recommended Option C. Gradually increasing pressure could be more closely controlled in Washington. This would facilitate monitoring o f Chinese and Soviet reaction and allow the U.S. to pull back if either threatened military intervention.*’ The memory of the surprise Chinese intervention in the Korean War was still very fresh in Washington. Thus, the potential of an intervention or other retaliation by China and/or the Soviet 183  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 196 --- Union was always a major concern in Was