e, and Consequences: Israel’s Deep-Penetration Bombing in Egypt, 1970," World Politics 30, no. 4 (July 1978): 494-495; and Yaacov Bar-Siman-Tov, Israel. The Superpowers, and the War in the Middle East. (New York: Praeger Publishers, 1987), 164-165. 141  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 154 --- stunned Nasser who was quite surprised and worried about the bombing operation. In a narrow sense, the strategic bombing did achieve its objective o f shocking Nasser. Unfortunately, the bottom line is that the operation was counterproductive to the foundation o f Israeli policy; maintain the military and political status quo of June 1967 which had left Israel in a vastly superior position. The Soviet intervention clearly upset the military and political status quo and shifted the balance away from Israel. Militarily, the raids had little impact on the fighting along the Canal. In fact, the number o f Egyptian artillery attacks increased during January and February.^® Artillery requires considerably more logistical support than small arms or mortars, thereby indicating the in-depth attacks were not having much affect on the Egypt’s ability to prosecute the War o f Attrition. Larger and more numerous aerial operations probably would have had more of an affect as all Egyptian military sites within range of the lAF were vulnerable to devastation on any given day. The lAF could have wreaked havoc on the Egyptian military, enough so to seriously threaten Nasser’s long-term plans of invading the Sinai. However, there simply were not enough attacks on enough key targets to hurt the Egyptian Army significantly. Ironically, the deep strike campaign lessened the chance for peace. Nasser refused to concede while Egypt was in a significantly inferior position and these bombings drove Egypt into an even worse position. Nasser probably would have yielded only after the decisive application o f an overwhelming amount o f military 142  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 155 --