cension of the anti-communist Qaddafi (although he later turned to the Soviets for arms and support). Indeed, during the first few years of Qaddafi’s rule Libyan-American relations were unremarkable.^ Nevertheless, relations between Qaddafi and the West soon soured. Qaddafi proved to be a mercurial personality with visions of intellectual, revolutionary, and imperial grandeur. Not content with Libya’s passive and trivial role in world affairs, Qaddafi decided to export his revolutionary ideas and expand Libya’s status."’ ^ Although Qaddafi is not the sole voice in Libya’s decision-making, he clearly retains the ultimate control over Libya’s foreign policy.'* His policy-making revolves around three main, somewhat interrelated concepts. First, he feels Libya (as well as himself) has had its prominence in world affairs slighted by the Western produced world order. Second, he is a strong supporter of Arab nationalism and unity. Lastly, he has a deep antipathy for the West due to bitter memories of colonialism and imperialism and wants to weaken the West’s global influence. Based on these concepts, Qaddafi has four major objectives, which are also interrelated. First, Qaddafi wants to increase Libya’s stature within the Arabic, * ’  His revolutionary ideas are laid out in his socio-economic and political manifesto. The Green Book, whose hallmark is the Third Universal Theory. In this theory, Qaddafi relied mainly on Islam (although there are also many other diverse influences) to reject both capitalism and communism and describes how he believes the world should be run. The Green Book and the Third Universal Theory are not considered to be have much intellectual depth or quality and have not been well accepted by other peoples or governments. 315  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 328 --- Islamic, and world communities. Second, he wants to weaken Western influence wherever possible. To fulfill these two objectives, he wants to overturn the international order, th