m to re-accept the October agreement had to be done quickly yet effectively. Threats against North Vietnam would fall on deaf ears without some proof they could be carried out. Any carrots would mean significant concessions at the bargaining table. Instead, Nixon choose to deliver the maximum amount of pressure he could with conventional weapons, short o f city busting or destroying the dike system. Nixon could have chosen a lesser form o f escalation or could have pressured Thieu and caved in to North Vietnam. While he probably could have succeeded in bringing Thieu in line, there were no assurances Hanoi would not stall in January to see what additional concessions they could get. Instead, Nixon needed a powerful demonstration o f military force for a short duration to convince the North Vietnamese that further stalling was not in their interest. He needed something that was sure to grab the attention of North Vietnam’s leadership. Considering the scathing criticism he weathered, Nixon could have taken an easier route and opted for a lesser operation (one that did not include B-52s bombing Hanoi, as Kissinger had suggested). A small, weak bombing campaign, comparable to Rolling Thunder’s initial coercive diplomacy attempt in April 1965, would probably have been a failure. Such a weak campaign may have encouraged Hanoi to wait until January and see what actions the U.S. Congress would take. Faced with other options, Nixon choose the correct military strategy. Not doing so would have endangered the success o f his coercive diplomacy attempt. 300  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 313 --- In fact, this case study clearly demonstrates how the military strategy can play a role in a compellent success. The best way to compel North Vietnam to make major concessions at the bargaining table was to demonstrate an ability to deny military capability. With the DRV’s greater emphasis on territorial control. Linebacker I and the tactical bombings were perfectly suited t