o support and wage war on a permanent basis. Probably the only two ways to force a permanent change in Hanoi’s behavior would be to eliminate its ability to fight in South Vietnam or actually obliterate North Vietnam. Nevertheless, a massive aerial attack might have persuaded the North Vietnamese to change their strategy to the benefit of the U.S. Indeed, Douglas Pike, one of the foremost Western experts on North Vietnam, believes a large bombing campaign in the spring of 1965 probably could have led to a ehange in strategy.” " There was precedent for such a change. During the war Hanoi did modify its strategy when faced with new conditions and problems. For example, 236  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 249 --- the introduction of U.S. forces in 1965 led to a slowdown in operations.” ' Moreover, their defeat at la Drang Valley in fall 1965 forced the North Vietnamese to reconsider their strategy. This battle demonstrated the vastly superior firepower and mobility o f American forces could not be defeated with the same revolutionary strategy that beat the French.’'’ Another example was the dramatic shift to more conventional warfare by 1972 after the Tet disaster wiped out the Viet Cong. The weak initial stage of Rolling Thunder and the gradual escalation inflicted little pain and material loss on North Vietnam. Moreover, it was far away from the seat o f power and population concentrations of North Vietnam. Although an ominous development, it did not cause undo alarm in Hanoi. Large air strikes on the economic infrastructure in Hanoi and Haiphong would have been a visible demonstration to the North Vietnamese leadership of the effectiveness of American firepower and a willingness of the U.S. to use it. It probably would not have had an immediate effect on the battlefields of South Vietnam. However, it would have caused hardship inside North Vietnam and created difficulties in supporting the war in South Vietnam as China and the Soviet Union were not yet su