mbing, and its role in the Iraqi armed forces. In 1980, the Iraqi Air Force’s (IQAF) was not a formidable strategic bombing force, with most of its attack aircraft having short range and light payload. And the IQAF was not known for its sterling professionalism. Among other shortcomings, pilot training, command and control systems, and logistical/maintenance operations were all substandard.^® The IQAF did not have (and never fully developed) a comprehensive operational system necessary for a coordinated, effective aerial campaign.”  The IQAF would have been hard pressed to conduct a large-scale strategic bombing campaign. Hussein deliberately maintained these weaknesses, fearing an IQAF coup. He kept the IQAF under rigid operational control and rewarded political obedience more than merit.'** Furthermore, like many in states, Iraq regarded air power as a secondary force to protect and support the ground forces and to deter against strategic attacks simply by existing. There was no doctrinal or organizational history o f strategic 368  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 381 --- bom bing/' Consequently, there probably was little internal organizational initiative or pressure to turn to a strategic bombing campaign. Nor was Iraq willing to accept the sustained losses necessary to prosecute a concerted strategic bombing operation. This meant that throughout the war, Iraqi aerial operations lacked sufficient massing o f forces and tenacity to get the job done. The piecemeal commitment of the IQAF would hamper the prosecution of the Tanker War later in the conflict. Even with the limited strikes, the IQAF suffered at the hands of Iranian anti-aircraft artillery, losing some 100 planes in the first year.'” This must have tempered any Iraqi interest in a full scale aerial offensive. Consequently, Iraq initially decided against a large-scale active compellent operation. This is not to say Iraq did not execute aerial attacks sorties that would be considered strategic b