military recapture, but a partial seizure and then bargaining for the rest.'® However, Nasser was skeptical of the chances of success o f diplomacy without the prior use of military force.'’ Furthermore, Nasser wanted to regain the Sinai while only giving the minimum political concessions.'® Nasser did not want to give official recognition o f Israel, or even allow direct negotiations (which provides a de facto recognition), and 120  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 133 --- wanted Israel to withdraw from the Sinai even before negotiations started,'^ Because Israel was not about to accede to Nasser’s demands, nor would the United States pressure Israel to accede, there would have to be more bloodshed before peace. In November 1967, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 242. It called for the withdrawal o f Israeli forces from territories occupied during the war in return for an official peace agreement and Arab recognition o f Israel. The Arab and Israeli acquiescence was based on respective interpretations which differed significantly and neither side really approved of it. The Israelis believed it called for partial withdrawal from the occupied territories, the Arabs believed total withdrawal. This resolution was supposed to serve as the basis for negotiation toward a peace settlement, but this resolution and the talks it sponsored foundered, mainly on the differing interpretations. Neither party would make the concessions necessary to bring the sides close enough together to allow negotiations to begin.’" Both the United States and the Soviet Union also attempted to foster peace negotiations during the latter part of 1968 and early 1969. Their efforts culminated in the Two-Power Talks between the Soviet Union and the United States beginning in April 1969. These talks were severely limited by the fact the actual parties in the* conflict did not attend. In fact, even as they began, the War o f Attrition began.” 121  File: --- klubes_compell