e two vulnerabilities of a state, either military or civilian, to achieve coercion. Pape constructed three models of strategic bombing strategy, punishment, punishment with bargaining, and military denial. He concluded the two punishment models exert minimal coercion leverage, while an effective denial strategy can achieve 87  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 100 --- coercion. The most influence is gained by significantly reducing or eliminating the opponent’s capability to either defend his interests or attain his objectives (most often defined as the ability to take or retain territory). As the denial strategy relies heavily on interdiction to degrade the other state’s military logistical support, Pape seemed to believe that the transportation system is generally the most important and vulnerable target. Civilian Intellectuals The civilian intellectuals, exemplified by Alexander George, et al., and Thomas Schelling, did not specifically identify the most important targets within the opposing state. Instead, they analyzed how military force should be used in a coercive role. Schelling saw coercive warfare as a manipulation o f risk and punishment. Military force is used to inflict pain, not to deprive a state of its ability to wage war. The pain and threat of more pain should raise the cost sufficiently to should be able to coerce an opponent to respond favorably. O f course, military force is not the only consideration. Instead, there are a number of other diplomatic and political factors which are also important to success. Actually, the notion of delivering pain and punishment to induce behavior changes existed long before these particular intellectuals arrived. They simply codified and enunciated previously ambiguous and ill-defined concepts. Thus, the bargaining and punishment idea has been the foundation for a number strategic bombing operations, including some before the civilian intellectuals began their 88  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Pag