Nixon could bomb nearly whatever he wanted in North Vietnam without fear of Soviet or Chinese reprisal. And Hanoi 296  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 309 --- knew it. Moreover, Nixon had always been intrigued with creating an image o f him as a madman out of control to expedite Hanoi’s willingness to settle.'®” However Hanoi really perceived Nixon, it could not fail to notice how the American media was questioning Nixon’s sanity during Linebacker II. Even the media was beginning to ask what would Nixon do next; bomb the dike system or maybe use nuclear weapons?”” Although never articulated by Nixon implicitly, this speculation in the press probably served as the implied threat of future actions needed to help coercive diplomacy succeed. One cannot discount the psychological affect of the bombing. Although North Vietnam’s will had not been broken, the intensity o f Linebacker II may well have had an impact in Hanoi. Linebacker II was a very impressive display o f precision and area bombing. It clearly went beyond the level o f bombing North Vietnam had been accustomed to. U.S. planes dropped more bombs in a shorter period of time than any previous bombing operation.” ' And even more importantly, this operation was more immediate to the decision makers in Hanoi. Although it is difficult to gauge reaction among the North Vietnamese leadership to the actual bombing, U.S. POWs in Hanoi reported their guards affected more by Linebacker II than any other bombing. Unlike previous bombings, the guards seemed profoundly scared.'”  Linebacker II also played on North Vietnam’s growing political isolation. The U.S. had been able to escalate without any significant response from the Soviets or Chinese. Hanoi had to rely more on U.S. domestic opposition for protection than its communist allies. Remember, North 297  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 310 --- Vietnam did not drastically change their position. Linebacker II’s unique intensity and effectiveness, coup