contributed to a sense o f war-weariness.'™ Nevertheless, one can infer military denial was the key factor in this successful compellence effort. North Vietnam’s sole objective was unification and was willing to bear excessive burdens to reach this goal. Linebacker I did not inflict any more countervalue damage than Rolling Thunder (in fact probably less). But unlike in 1965, air power in 1972 could affect North Vietnam’s ability to conquer South Vietnam, Hanoi’s ultimate goal. And unlike in 1965 when North Vietnam could rely on a military/political strategy to undermine and then defeat South Vietnam, by 1972 North Vietnam could only achieve unification via a massive military invasion leading to destruction of the South Vietnamese Army and complete territorial conquest. But U.S./South Vietnamese operations had soundly defeated North Vietnam’s latest offensive. A continued U.S. presence would render a future military victory unlikely. By late 1972, Hanoi’s preeminent immediate goal apparently became removing the U.S. rather than ousting Thieu.'™ The latter could come once the former had occurred. Thus, it is most likely that the U.S.’  successful demonstration o f its military denial capability compelled North Vietnam to concede a principal negotiating position. 281  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 294 --- The military denial was accomplished by disrupting North Vietnam’s ability to wage war over the short and long term. During the Easter Offensive, the U.S. and South Vietnam achieved military denial mainly via tactical bombing and a more competent ARVN. Linebacker I instead played a much greater role in demonstrating the U.S. ability to disrupt North Vietnam’s long-term ability to wage war, especially with the blockade. Air power’s effectiveness was boosted by the changing nature o f the ground war and the use of guided munitions. Although often overlooked in discussing compellence, in this instance, tactical bombing was a critical factor in the compellent