ow terror among the populace. Hussein predicted that SCUDs falling on Israeli cities would panic the population and force Israel to retaliate. Hussein hoped the Arab members o f the Coalition would not tolerate fighting on the side o f Israel against another Arabic state. Therefore, shooting SCUDs at Israel seemed like a good way to split the Coalition or force the Coalition to start the ground war prematurely."^ This was another example o f a shock strategy aimed at affecting a civilian population to exert compellent pressure on their government. 507  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 520 --- Shortly after the war began Iraq launched the first of some 40 SCUDs at Israel.’  The missiles caused great consternation in the Israeli population and nearly drew a retaliatory strike. However, U.S. diplomacy, willingness to divert air strikes to hunt for SCUD launchers, deployment o f American Patriot anti-missile missiles in Israel, and the wisdom o f the Israeli government avoided such a strike. The Patriots provided the perception o f defenses and the Coalition’s efforts reduced the number o f SCUD launches significantly after the first week.™ Israel stayed out of the war."" Hussein also hoped that missiles raining down on Riyadh would rattle the Saudi government and force the ground war to start or possibly even lead to a ceasefire after the Saudis buckled under the strain. Consequently, Iraq launched 48 SCUDs at the Gulf States, primarily Saudi Arabia. The missiles caused some restlessness in Saudi Arabia. But with the apparent success of the Patriot and the ' The sources vary on the total number o f SCUD launches for the war. Some say as high as 91, others range down to 73. The precise number does not matter that much. ™  After the war there was a heated debate after the war over the Patriots’ accuracy and efficacy. Clearly, they were not the wonder weapons the U.S. military portrayed them to be. This, however, is missing the point. The SCUDs were psychological