n their state. Besides the suffering of their people, leaders usually recognize that a significant amount of damage weakens their power vis-a-vis other states. It may not be the primary reason, but it is illogical to assume that the pain is not one consideration in the calculation o f whether to surrender or persist. Finally, I need to make an important point concerning the importance of the conditions particular to each conflict. The characteristics of some compellent operations severely weaken the effectiveness o f military denial approach regardless o f the political objectives. For example, the compelling state’s air force may be ill- 465  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 478 --- equipped or so incompetent to carry out a proper strategic bombing campaign. Equipment shortages clearly limited the Iranian Air Force’s operations during the Iran-Iraq War. Regardless of whether it could have succeeded, Iran could not have executed a comprehensive military denial campaign. Furthermore, the targeted state may not be particularly vulnerable to military denial due to superpower support. Or politieal considerations may also preclude attacks on the critical components needed to support the war. Therefore, it is important to understand that I do not claim strategic bombing will always be successful if the political objectives are tied to territorial control; its success is by no means certain. Instead, I posit that strategic bombing is most effective when political objectives are tied to territorial control. What About Everything Else? But there are many other cases of compellence with objectives not tied to the control o f territory. Air power has often been used to compel a modification in behavior. Most often strategic bombing attempts to persuade a state to cease a policy or action, such as terrorism, or to accept a ceasefire/peace treaty ending attritional warfare. Strategic bombing may not always be successful in these compellent operations, but it has not alw