itary’s perception of Rolling Thunder was more accurate and recommended escalation.''" Johnson now felt the pressure to follow advice from his military people rather than McNamara’s increasingly dovish counsel.'''^ However, Johnson did not totally loosen the restrictions. Another peace initiative in late August led Johnson to curtail bombing strikes on Hanoi during September. This peace effort failed and even a speech by Johnson on 29 September appealing to Ho Chi Minh to enter negotiations was met with rejection. Although Johnson was not fully convinced o f Rolling Thunder’s efficacy, he decided to again authorize more targets. This was to be the final escalation of Rolling Thunder.'''" During October, November, and December many of the previous restrictions were lifted, with the notable exception of closing Haiphong harbor.''''' The aspiration of the military was almost within reach, a crushing bombing operation to deny North Vietnam the capability to wage war. By the end of 1967, essentially everything of military or economic significance had been bombed.'''" Although Haiphong harbor had not been closed with mines or the port facilities destroyed, the U.S. made a concerted interdiction effort to prevent material from leaving the city.'''^ American intelligence analysts concluded the bombings inflicted heavy damage, including the destruction of 5,261 motor vehicles and 2,475 pieces of railroad rolling stock.'"’ 216  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 229 --- The Fall o f 1967 marked the high point o f Rolling Thunder as a strategy o f economic infrastructure destruction. Nonetheless, Rolling Thunder again failed to achieve its objective of compelling North Vietnam to modify its behavior. Rolling Thunder had not been able to affect the battlefield situation enough to deny victory to North Vietnam nor had it broken the DRV’s will to fight. Bad weather during January and February of 1968 precluded most air strikes on North Vietnam. Those few carried out focuse