and coercive diplomacy or crises. The goal of coercion is persuasion rather than complete defeat. Persuasion connotes a decision to cease a conflict based on a rational evaluation o f costs and benefits, in other words, a product of the bargaining among states. On the other hand, the traditional military strategy relies less on bargaining and more on the military situation. Analysis of crises also is limiting because it examines cases short of all-out war. This makes the traditional military strategy of less interest to civilian analysts of coercion and crisis management, who often exclude it. Additionally, civilian academicians, mostly political scientists and economists, have conducted much of this inquiry. It is not surprising that they would focus on areas and concepts with which they are most familiar and study the most, i.e. the politics of nations and bargaining. Moreover, a oft-used methodology, game theory, relies on quantifiable variables and bargaining factors lend themselves to quantification. 8  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 21 --- W hy A ir Power? In the ninety years since the airplane’s first flight, air power has become an extremely potent expression of military force. Although definitions vary, a concise yet highly informative explanation is that air power is a measure o f the ability of aircraft to affect the military and/or political situation. Most relevantly, a number of states have relied on air power as the heart o f their compellent strategies. A typical method o f attempting compellence with air power is through conventional strategic bombing.*^ Yet the results o f strategic bombing as a compellent tool have been mixed, ranging from striking success to total failure.*' Air power is applied operationally in a variety o f forms including; transporting equipment and supplies, reconnaissance, delivering nuclear weapons, and bombing with conventional weapons. Conventional weapons being high explosives, incendiaries, and such; basicall