studies. Hopefully, these factors will provide significant assistance in determining what is most important and vulnerable. The Mechanics To explore this subject I will rely on historical examples o f strategic bombing. Because I am not limiting myself to coercive diplomacy and am more concerned with actual military operations, I will not be strictly testing the significance o f Alexander George’s factors favoring coercive diplomacy to show the need to include a usable military option. I simply want to demonstrate that the military situation can play an important role in determining the success of compellence. Moreover, I do not have formal hypotheses to test regarding what air power strategy is best suited for compellence or how to determine which strategy is best in future conflicts. Instead, I aim to provide insight into this diverse and complex subject. Due to space and time constraints, a meticulous examination of every strategic bombing operation is not practical. Therefore, I will use the focused case comparison method to analyze some o f the cases in detail. Consequently, this dissertation will not generate statistically based probability predictions. Nor is the subject matter and research focus particularly suited to the creation of falsifiable theories as the data is highly contextual and not conducive to accurate or realistic 104  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 117 --- modeling. Instead, I will make conclusions and/or generalizations based on a careful, structured analysis of case studies.® Even though the airplane is but ninety years old, there is still a large pool of historical examples which involve aerial bombing. When employing the focused case comparison, it is important to select only the most appropriate cases for further analysis. The primary criteria for selecting examples is strategic bombing with a clear intent to achieve compellence. In other words, the actual use o f aerial bombing in an independent operation aimed at forcing a c