I. Operations in the Inter-War Period During the inter-war years, air power was utilized in a number of conflicts. The four most notable were 1) British colonial control in the Middle East, 2) Japan’s invasion of China, 3) Italy against Ethiopia and 4) the Spanish Civil War. These examples did not have a great impact on the development of strategic bombing theory. The Japanese and Italian experiences were not very encouraging. The Italians used aerial bombing in more of a tactical, rather than strategic, role. Italian bombers were especially effective when using chemical weapons (primarily mustard gas) against the unprotected Ethiopians, killing and wounding tens o f thousands.” The Japanese attempted more of a strategic bombing campaign, but it was not conducted in a systematic or vigorous manner. There were some individual 34  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 47 --- successes, but China was far too large to be overcome by a handful o f major raids, even though some inflicted heavy casualties. Anyway, the influence of these conflicts on the rest of the world was extremely limited.” The British colonial air control strategy during the 1920s and 1930s was a more classic strategic bombing campaign. Britain used air power to help maintain peace and order in the vastness of their colonial empire in hopes of reducing the need for ground forces. The concept was that whenever the natives became restless in rural regions from India to Afghanistan to Iraq to Somalialand, the British would bomb them. However, it met with mixed results. While the air control strategy supported those who believed air power could play a dominant role, its gross dissimilarities with the European theater significantly reduced its overall impact on primary RAF doctrine which focused on European conflict. Nonetheless, the use of air control had two important contributions. First, it provided a reason for the continued existence of the RAF, whose survival was in doubt during the small milita