better to aerial bombardment than that o f some armies. Assuming that strategic bombing could inflict devastating damage, Douhet and Mitchell saw air power as dominating the next war, relegating the army and the navy to mop-up duty and obsolescence. Mitchell and Douhet recognized the economic costs inherent in "modern" wars required mobilization o f the population and production centers to support the massive war effort. Ground and naval forces were needed not only to attack the enemy, but to shield the population and production centers critical for the war effort. Airplanes are able to overfly the ground and naval forces to strike directly at these centers. They believed strategic bombing would either neutralize or destroy these centers, thereby eliminating the enemy’s ability and will to resist. Thus, the ground and naval forces were not needed because the war would be over long before they could methodically (and with enormous bloodshed) defeat the enemy’s armed forces in the field. These predictions were clearly overly optimistic. 30  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 43 --- Regardless, in some ways their thinking was on the right track. Considering they were stumbling through uncharted waters, with little historical experience to draw on, the number o f their accurate ideas concerning air power is surprising. Douhet and especially Mitchell wrote about much more than just strategic bombing. Air power concerned Mitchell; strategic bombing was simply one component and expression of air power. Some of their general conclusions concerning air power which have held up over time are: 1) airplanes fundamentally are offensive weapons, 2) the need for a single, unified, and separate command of aerial forces, and 3) command of the air (now known as air superiority) is o f absolute importance to the success o f not just air warfare, but also ground and naval warfare. Most importantly, their ideas on strategic bombing added a new dimension to the traditional militar