ill examine a number of strategic bombing campaigns to gain understanding of whether and how they have exerted compellent leverage. I will also draw conclusions as to how to exert the maximum compelling influence with strategic bombing. I will focus on air power as opposed to ground or naval power for numerous reasons. First o f all, there are a number of conflicts in which aerial bombing was used expressly for the purpose o f compellence. This simplifies the identification of which cases to analyze and the objectives within each case. Compellence with ground or naval power generally is more nebulous and indirect and thus more difficult to accurately assess. In addition, air power generally provides more strategy options than ground or naval power to directly applying compellent pressure. And I am interested in analyzing the differences between multiple options. ’  Strategy refers to the plan to achieve objectives. Strategic bombing unfortunately uses the base term strategy in a different context, muddying the semantic waters. Some authors contend strategic bombing should be replaced with independently-decisive bombing to clarify matters. However, this is not totally accurate and it is even more cumbersome in usage. To maintain consistency with previous works I will continue to use strategic bombing as well. 10  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 23 --- Successful compellence is achieved when the enemy is convinced that the cost o f resisting outweighs the benefits of resisting/ This in turn is done by reducing the enemy’s ability and/or will to resist. All three types o f military force (ground, naval, and air) can strike at both the ability and will, but air power can attack each most directly. Air power’s superiority over the other forms o f military force lies in its capability to strike multiple "centers of gravity" o f a state. Clausewitz defined the term as, "the hub o f all power and movement, on which everything depends".But  in modem, complex, indus