ay have too high for the gains. The problem was that depriving Iran of oil revenue was only incremental not absolute. It would have been extremely difficult, if not impossible, for Iraq to shut down Iran’s oil exports completely. For example, the Kharg Island facility was inherently resistant to damage from aerial attacks and it would have required constant heavy bombing to disrupt on a permanent basis. Any break in operations 417  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 430 --- would have afforded Iran the opportunity to repair the facility and resume exports. Hence, it would have been difficult to actually eliminate Iran’s ability to wage war via oil interdiction. Iran could always "tighten the belt" a bit more and continue. Unlike destroying military capability, disrupting economic activity was a less clear- cut affect on the battlefield situation. Until a complete and total collapse o f the economy, the nation, and/or the state, Iran could continue the war. The Iranian leadership only agreed to a ceasefire when the survival o f the Revolution was in serious jeopardy; any less compellence would have met failure. The Military Option Unfulfilled What makes this case interesting is that a military option to exert significant compellent pressure clearly existed, but was never acted upon fully. Regardless of whether Alexander George, et al.’s factors favoring coercive diplomacy existing for either side, the failure to execute the military option fully meant that sufficient compellent pressure would not be generated immediately. Iraq was able to exert sufficient pressure only after a long and arduous war o f attrition. Both sides were vulnerable to exploitation via reducing revenues generated by oil exports. But neither carried out a strategy that exerted the maximum pressure. This shows that simply having a suitable military option on paper is not enough. The compeller must also possess the capability and the will to execute a military strategy that will yield compe