ent success. Consequently, it is more useful to analyze whether strategic * ' O f course, this also pertains to ground or naval power. Ill  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 124 --- bombing contributed significantly to the overall compellent effort rather than get bogged down in assigning relative importance to each form of military power. I also need to define a failed compellent attempt. The most obvious compellence failure is when the eompeller stops bombing without having achieved the intended political objectives. It should also be considered a failure if a single­ strike (or limited type) bombing does not yield a behavioral change. Moreover, it would seem that compellence with strategic bombing fails if the attairanent of the political objectives can not be made prior to total destruetion of the opponent’s armed forees and occupation of his land. Yet this is not entirely true. Compellence is the attainment of political objectives via force. Sometimes those political objectives require the seizure of territory or the total capitulation o f an opponent that can only result from complete territorial occupation. Air power may fail as an independent compellent tool prior to territorial occupation, but it can contribute to the eventual victory significantly. And the ultimate goal is achieving political objectives. Consequently, it is always more informative to measure whether strategic bombing contributes to achieving the political objectives rather than whether it works independently. 112  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 125 --- CHAPTER FOUR THE ISRAELI-EGYPTIAN WAR OF ATTRITION 1969-1970 Although often overlooked because it lacked the drama o f the 1967 Six Day War or the 1948 War of Independence, the War o f Attrition from March 1969 to August 1970 was in fact an important event in the Arab-Israeli conflict.* While the 1973 Yom Kippur War was a dramatic indication o f the changing military- political landscape in the Middle East, the War of Attr