on systems supporting the communists in South Vietnam. The second was a more classic strategic bombing campaign that would focus on the economic infrastructure of North Vietnam. These two were variations of the denial strategy. The final strategy was to inflict pain incrementally until North Vietnam broke, i.e., the punishment strategy.^ The interdiction strategy stressed compellence primarily through military denial. Optimally, this strategy would target the transportation routes going into North Vietnam, within North Vietnam, and heading into South Vietnam (the Ho Chi Minh Trail), to prevent the southward flow o f men and materials. Interdiction 167  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 180 --- would eliminate or significantly reduce North Vietnam’s ability to support the Viet Cong and involve itself directly in the conflict. This would seriously hinder the communists’ efforts in South Vietnam and facilitate victory of the U.S. and South Vietnamese ground forces. Hence, the interdiction strategy intended to achieve compellent success by affecting the battlefield situation.'* On the other hand, the strategy of punishment targeted the will o f the North Vietnamese, based on the theories of limited warfare, such as Robert Osgood’s early works and later Thomas Schelling’s concept o f coercive violence. The need to inflict pain, not to deny military capability, was of paramount importance. This strategy was based on the assumption that North Vietnam had a breaking point and would be willing to negotiate once the bombing inflicting a sufficient level of punishment. A gradual escalation of bombing, with the clear threat o f even greater destruction, should lead to North Vietnam realizing the best option was to modify its behavior.* Finally, there was support within the military, especially the Air Force, for a traditional strategic bombing operation based on their World War II experience. The bombing would eliminate the North’s capability to support the war by destr