ss effective against truck traffic from China, this mode o f transportation was unable to completely make up the losses.'®’ Linebacker I quickly cut off much o f North Vietnam’s external support. Meanwhile, B-52s were concentrating on supply depots and transportation routes in southern DRV. Nixon and Kissinger concluded that sending B-52s against 275  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 288 --- Hanoi and Haiphong would create too much domestic outcry.'®* After the mining and the attacks on bridges, U.S. planes began to strike major supply depots, railroad marshalling yards, and storage facilities set up to cope with the disruption to the transportation system.'®* The Easter Offensive Wanes By June, South Vietnam and the U.S. had beaten back North Vietnam’s Easter Offensive. There were four major reasons for its defeat; hardening of ARVN, gallant efforts of the U.S. advisers, tactical bombing by U.S. air power and poor strategy and tactics by the NVA. While the ARVN initially fought poorly, it rebounded well by May. Partially this was due to simple natural selection; the bad was wiped out, leaving only the better units. In addition, Vietnamization had actually created some good ARVN units and officers. The ARVN’s performance was aided considerably by the American advisers still assigned down to the regimental and even battalion level. Although sometimes ignored and abandoned by inept and corrupt Vietnamese officers, the advisers often provided the cool, competent leadership under fire that was lacking in the ARVN. They also were critical in coordinating air support to beleaguered ARVN positions."® Tactical bombing played a critical role in foiling NVA attacks and hindering NVA supply efforts within South Vietnam. Large numbers of attack sorties took a heavy toll on NVA forces. As opposed to the 1968 Tet Offensive there were many more suitable targets for tactical air power, including tanks, heavy artillery, large 276  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 2