he stalemate would continue.'®® In fact, Iran’s acceptance o f UN Resolution 598 resulted from its military and political situation worsening 401  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 414 --- dramatically. By 1988, Iran’s strategies on the ground and in the Persian Gulf had failed miserably. The international community united against Iran so it had no strong allies for support. Attempts to win the war had failed and there were no other apparent options available. Finally, Iran was financially ruined and domestic support for the war was collapsing. Iran’s leaders agreed to the ceasefire to save the Revolution which was jeopardized by the disintegrating war effort. The Iranian leadership’s acceptance of the ceasefire resulted from the combination o f pressures from multiple sources. Three more immediate factors were Iraq’s mounting military superiority and the significant weakening o f the Iranian ground forces, Iraq’s escalation of the War o f the Cities, and Iraq’s widespread use o f chemical weapons.” ®  There were other issues that played important, but underlying, roles included Iran’s continuing economic woes, international isolation, and the problems caused by international intervention in the Persian Gulf, highlighted by more disastrous skirmishes U.S. naval forces. Yet the USS V incennes'  shoot down of the Iranian airliner finally catalyzed Iran’s leadership into action.” ’ In the Air The first major event of 1988 was a renewal o f the War o f the Cities on 29 February. Iran actually initiated this episode by firing 3 SCUDs at Baghdad.” ® Iraq retaliated with a large, sustained operation against Tehran and Iran’s other 402  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 415 --- important cities, using a locally modified SCUD missile that could reach Tehran." Iraq attempted a shock strategy to exert pressure on Iran’s leaders by undermining civilian morale and support for the war. Clearly, Iraq did not have nearly enough missiles to pulverize a city. Instead,