onnection with the realities of the ongoing conflict. The Linebacker campaigns fared much better, especially Linebacker I, because the military and political situation had changed. Most importantly, the strategic bombing strategy was far better correlated with the political goals. As with Clodfelter, the theme is that military strategy must be specifically tuned to achieve the desired political objectives and that no one doctrine or strategy is paramount. Shifting Currents Nevertheless, official Air Force doctrine toward strategic bombing still languished. Until 1992, the Air Force was organized into three commands. Strategic Air Command (SAC), Tactical Air Command (TAC), and Military Airlift Command (MAC) that had little institutional need for new doctrine. SAC’s central role was the deliverance of nuclear weapons as part o f SIOP so it spent little effort on developing conventional warfare capability or theories. TAC primarily focused on the postulated European war confrontation with the Soviets. Fighter-bombers 69  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 82 --- were to seize air superiority and then destroy advancing Soviet armor columns, supply lines, and depots in a battlefield interdiction operation. Thus, TAC had little use for flexible or innovative strategic bombing ideas.It  was not until the influence o f John Warden and other reform-minded individuals and the political developments o f the 1980s did the Air Force’s thinking expand beyond nuclear war and the European war scenario. John Warden, noted for his book The Air Campaign, rekindled the themes of Clausewitz and William Mitchell in his approach to air power. Warden developed Clausewitz’s idea of the center of gravity into the strategic rings model. Warden conceptualized the enemy state as a system much like a human body. Warden created a model to show the critical components of the system. This model had five strategic rings, the outermost shell being military forces, then population, infrastructu