ain, during the four years of the war, Germany only launched some 100 raids, dropping 280 tons of bombs.® In contrast, during roughly the same time span in World War II, the United States Anny Air Force dropped 1.6 million tons of bombs on Germany.’ With such a small tonnage o f bombs delivered on large targets with lofty goals, strategic bombing during the First World War simply was unable to have a major impact on a conflict of such enormity. At the start o f the war there was little theory and thought regarding how to use air power. Although some pre-war fiction predicted how an aerial war might proceed, there was no conceptual plan for using air power as an independent striking force.® Nevertheless, the early users of air power quickly developed some 23  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 36 --- surprisingly sophisticated views on the operation and purpose o f strategic bombing. And the experiences of World War I played a very influential role in the development o f air power theory in the post war years. Initially, neither side was equipped to launch any sort of strategic bombing campaign, but each developed the ability during the war. Germany launched two such related operations against Britain, one with zeppelins, the other with airplanes. Both the French and the British bombed Germany, albeit with different objectives. The United States made a late contribution to strategic bombing, mainly by dovetailing with the British effort. The Italians also attempted some strategic bombing which yielded few results. The German strategic bombing campaigns were carried out by zeppelins (motorized, lighter than air dirigibles) during the first half o f the war and airplanes in the latter half. Both aerial vehicles concentrated on urban areas, primarily London. The German objectives for the zeppelin raids were multifold. First, the German war plarmers hoped to achieve some measure of retribution for the Allied blockade and to show civilians that Germany was doing so