s in its capability to strike multiple "centers of gravity" o f a state. Clausewitz defined the term as, "the hub o f all power and movement, on which everything depends".But  in modem, complex, industrial societies, states have more than one center o f gravity."' The centers of gravity o f a state are best described as a set of concentric circles. The outermost ring is the armed forces, which encircles the population, followed by the state’s economic infrastructure (industrial, communication, and transportation systems), then the power ^  With the traditional military strategy, there may not be much of a decision per se. For example, in May 1945, the German decision to surrender was more of an acceptance o f reality of the death of Hitler, the destruction of the Wehrmacht, and the Allied occupation o f Germany. The Japanese surrender should be considered a rational cost-versus-benefit decision because Japan could have fought on, even though at great cost to the state and society. ^ Although some may disagree, I concur with Col. John Warden and expand Clausewitz’s definition of center o f gravity. The state as an entity is much more complicated today than the 19th century. 1 1  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 24 --- production/organic essentials (primarily petroleum and electrical), and the innermost circle is the leadership.” ' Ground and naval units generally are limited to attacking the outermost ring, fielded military forces. Opposing military forces generally prevent direct strikes by ground and naval power onto the inner rings, which are physically located deep within the state. In fact, most of ground and naval doctrine and strategy has been developed with the specific goal of defeating the opposing military’s forces. Compellent leverage is generally only exerted through indirect means. For example, the objective of all three primary strategies used by ground forces, attrition, maneuver, and blitzkrieg (a specialized form of maneuver warfare), is to