. This also meant that Hussein’s base o f power and Iraq’s ability to hold Kuwait was reduced seriously. Thus, the aerial campaign threatened Hussein’s most important goals, holding power and retaining Kuwait without losing his army. The bombing also inflicted considerable pain on the Iraqi state. For example, the economic and transportation infrastructures were heavily damaged and the living standard for the Iraqi population dropped significantly as the economy ground down, electricity was not available, and water treatment and sewage plants ceased functioning. However, punishment inflicted on the state was not necessarily perceived by Hussein as similarly painful. The more important effect of punishment was a discontented population willing to overthrow him. As long as he maintained the strength of the Republican Guards and his civilian security system, the population’s discontent was not a major threat to his power. And the air war damaged, but did not destroy either of his praetorian guards. ' For example, the estimates of Republican Guard tanks destroyed by aerial attacks range from less than one-quarter to at least one-half. This highlights a continuing problem with battle damage assessment that has not been rectified even with the U.S.’ advanced technological intelligence gathering capabilities. 504  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 517 --- The reduction in Iraq’s settlement terms may have been due to other factors, most notably the imminent ground war. In late January, the Coalition shattered a major Iraqi ground offensive at Kha^i that the Iraqis hoped would start the ground war. The abysmal performance o f the Iraqi Army against the Coalition did not bode well for Hussein’s strategy o f precipitating a quick, bloody war to force a ceasefire and/or save the Iraqi Army during a defeat. Furthermore, by mid- February, all Iraqi attempts to split the Coalition had failed. Realizing that the ground war might destroy his base of power, the Republican Gua