so the other Arabic and African states. 316  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 329 --- Nonetheless, his policy on sub-Saharan Africa waxes and wanes as other issues dominate his attention/ Qaddafi’s hatred of imperialism is the foundation for much of his antagonism toward the West, but he is also fundamentally opposed to Western philosophy, political teachings, and culture.® He perceives the current international system as a product of the West which favors the wealthy, industrialized states. Therefore, he seeks to change the status quo by strengthening the Third World states, and most importantly, Libya. A product o f this contempt for the status quo is his support for separatist and liberation terrorist groups throughout Europe (although these are not the only type o f terrorist organizations he supports). More immediately, for years he has sought to undermine European and United States influence in the Middle East and northern Africa, while increasing his own. Qaddafi has had no qualms about using violence or supporting those who use violence these objectives. Obviously, his desire to overturn the current world order and his use and support o f terrorism has precluded favorable relations with the West. In fact, Libya’s relations with moderate Arab state, i.e. Saudi Arabia, suffer due to their affinity with Western States.^ Qaddafi’s continued support and use o f terrorism has probably been the greatest source of irritation for the West. He has provided arms, money, training facilities and safehaven to hundreds o f terrorists. Yet he did not limit his aid to Arab groups targeting Israel and Western states, instead, he has assisted a multitude of terrorists, ranging from assorted Middle Eastern radicals, including the Popular 317  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 330 --- Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, and the Abu Nidal Organization, to European separatists, such as the Irish Republican A