toppling an undesirable government. These are considered political objectives. Thus, the goal o f war is not just to achieve military objectives, but eventually to achieve the political goal(s) responsible for the war. Invariably, John Keegan, in his book, A History of Warfare. (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1993), contends the nature o f war is embedded in the culture(s) of those fighting the war. Hence, Clausewitz’s maxim is not universal but only applies to war as Clausewitz envisioned and experienced it. This particular nature of war continues today in the Western World.  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 15 --- one state’s attempt to gain something comes at the expense of another state. A conflict results when the other state refuses to concede. The act o f forcing a state to acquiesce to the other’s demand is called compellence. Hence, the goal of compellence — the political objective(s)—  is the ultimate end o f war. It is generally accepted in the current literature that successful compellence is achieved by sufficiently manipulating the other state’s cost-versus-benefit scale. In other words, the opposing state will concede when costs are increased to outweigh the benefits of continued resistance. Much o f the literature posits this cost is expressed in terms of punishment and pain to the state."* Another author contends that successful compellence requires the defeat or neutralization of the other state’s military strategy.^ However, the latter concept still is part o f the cost- to-benefit analysis as it requires a rational decision to discontinue fighting. A military defeat becomes the point which crosses the tolerance threshold and continued fighting is deemed too costly. There can be enormous diversity in compellent strategies which use active military force (i.e. actual shooting), ranging from coercive diplomacy to coercion to traditional military strategy. Coercive diplomacy and coercion, while different in form, both aim to achieve political ob