small IAF.’° Consequently, Israel preferred a swift conclusion.” Thus, Israel could either attempt to reach a settlement by lowering its terms or escalate in hopes that increased military pressure would force Nasser to concede another humiliating defeat.”  Israel choose to escalate. The Israeli desire to make 135  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 148 --- Egypt pay for starting the war should not be overlooked as a factor in Israel’s decision to escalate at this juncture. As before, a land operation into Egypt was considered and rejected.®” An escalation through the air seemingly posed significantly fewer risks and, most importantly, was now feasible. The lAF assault in the latter half o f 1969 had denuded Egypt of its air defense, exposing the entire country to aerial attack. Concurrently, a new plane, the American made F-4 Phantom, became operational in the lAF. This plane was vastly superior to anything else in the Israeli arsenal, being able to deliver large payloads o f bombs at long ranges and being able to outfight the best Soviet made MiGs. Israel now had the capability to exploit a defenseless Egypt to strike deep into its heartland. Apparently, simply having the ability to do it was a major reason behind the decision to begin the deep penetration strikes.” Although the Israeli leadership hoped the raids would achieve the military objective of disrupting Egypt’s logistical support for the fighting along the Canal, the political objectives were much more important. The Israeli government wanted to compel Egypt to agree to a ceasefire by weakening or threatening Nasser’s regime and by undermining the morale o f the nation.’®  The Israelis perceived Nasser as the primary obstacle to peace. While the Israeli government did not ®  There were some valid concerns regarding a land operation including: lack of domestic support, expected superpower constraints, probable heavy loses, lack of infrastructure (bridges) to support an operation across the Suez Cana