ed the recent U.S. proposal as the best it could get. Meanwhile, the recent death of Stalin, the Soviet leader, resulted in the Soviet government sought to reduce tensions with the West. Again, the Korean War was not beneficial to the Soviet Union. While forcing the West to divert some military resources to Korea, the war galvanized NATO to rearm, something contrary to Soviet goals.-^ In sum, strategic bombing was ill-suited to be a significant compellent factor in this conflict. The attritional stalemate after early Summer 1951 meant that aerial bombing’s ability to influence the military situation was inherently restricted. Unable to deny military capability, strategic bombing had to rely on punishment. 492  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 505 --- Yet the ability of punishment to influence China was limited by the Chinese government’s high motivation to establish China as an important international actor and thus to avoid the appearance of buckling to U.S. influence and an embarrassing POW fiasco. Furthermore, the U.S. was very limited in its ability to deliver pain to China. The denial o f electric power must have hurt, but not enough to compel China. The irrigation dams operation may not have exerted more compellent leverage, but it coincided with a number o f other factors which together led to compellence. Not surprisingly, unlike the air pressure campaign, during the irrigation dam operation the U.S. had many o f George, et al.’s, factors favoring coercive diplomacy on its side, including urgency, strong motivation and leadership, clarity of objective and terms, domestic support, and the Communists’  fear of unacceptable escalation. In 1953, the U.S. finally had a military option that was suited to act in conjunction with other factors and employed it effectively. The U.S. Strike in Lebanon - 1983 While similar in gross characteristics, this strike was in many ways the opposite of the 1986 Libyan operation. The Lebanese operation was a complete fail