ial targets. During 1986, Iraqi planes hit, among other targets, hydroelectric power stations, arms factories, communication facilities, bridges. Iraq also bombed more of Iran’s oil refineries, offshore oil fields, and pumping stations, forcing Iran to spend some of its dwindling foreign currency to purchase refined petroleum products abroad."’ But Iraq again never concentrated its air power against any one group of targets enough to inflict severe, lasting damage. As Iraq did not muster sufficient forces to reduce any one set o f targets significantly, Iran was able to survive.'’® Regardless, the aerial offensive exerted enough pressure to force an important Iranian reaction. Instead of continuing attritional warfare, Iran decided to renew the ground war in hopes o f a quick, decisive, final victory.” ' This was very important in the overall course of the war. Iran would now waste its strength battering against an increasingly potent Iraqi Army. With every futile, and costly, 393  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 406 --- attack the Iranian people’s desire to continue the war lessened. The eventual collapse in morale was a critical factor in the Iranian government’s decision to accept a ceasefire in August 1988. The final critical event of 1986 was a Kuwaiti request for protection for its tankers. Iran suspected the Gulf states of helping Iraq with its long-range aerial attacks and stepped up the domestic unrest and terrorism operations against Kuwait. Iran also increased its shipping attacks in late 1986.'”  While the number of attacks on Kuwaiti ships was still small in relation to the number o f ships plying the Gulf, Kuwait realized the increasing trend. Kuwait responded by asking the Soviet Union and the U.S. to escort its shipping.'” 1987 In 1987 Iraq’s position vis-a-vis Iran continued to improve. From late 1986 and into 1987, Iraq defeated another series of Iranian ground offensives while inflicting heavy casualties. The U.S. became even more involv