he DRV and the NLF, both the Kennedy and Johnson administrations perceived North Vietnam to be the primary instigator and cause of the fighting in the south. Therefore, they believed it was important to pressure North Vietnam to end the war. The U.S. government saw the NLF and VC as merely tools in the north’s quest for unification under communist rule. By early 1964, the situation in South Vietnam was looking even bleaker; both the government and military were weakening. In response, the U.S. had decided to undertake covert operations in February to increase pressure on North Vietnam. Hopefully, increasing punishment on North Vietnam would convince it to curtail its support of the Viet Cong.*'* For the first time, the U.S. was engaged in action against North Vietnam. * *  The Tet Offensive destroyed the VC as a fighting force. This eliminated the remaining influence and power of the NLF. The VC continued in name after Tet, but its ranks were full o f northerners fighting more of a light infantry war than an insurgency. 179  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 192 --- Equally important was the U.S. government’s adoption o f NSAM 288 in March 1964. NSAM 288 reflected the concern over the worsening situation and laid out the U.S.’ primary objective, seeking an independent, non-communist South Vietnam.** This was considerably more expansive than any previous goal and set the foundation for further U.S. involvement. Again, the threat o f the domino theory was cited as the important explanation o f U.S. interests in Vietnam.*® But it was just not the overt threat of a cascading collapse of Asian governments to communism. There was also a fear of a loss of reputation, prestige, and influence if one o f its allies fell to a communist insurgency.*’ Stopping North Vietnam would also be stopping China and the Soviet Union. The basic premises o f NSAM 288 would drive American policy over the next three years. Although NSAM 288 rejected any calls for American ground troop