ng the proper center(s) of gravity should be able to deprive the state of its ability to achieve its objectives, prevent another state from achieving its objectives, or inflicting unacceptable punishment. Consequently, the center of gravity concept appeared to be a promising solution to the problem o f developing suitable military strategies for compellence. '' The most pertinent legal document concerning air warfare today is Protocol I to the 1949 Geneva Conventions completed in 1977. The best comprehensive discussion o f the legal questions regarding bombing is W. Hays Parks, "Air War and the Law o f War," The Air Force Law Review 32, no. 1  (1990): 1-225. 448  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 461 --- Nevertheless, there are two serious problems with relying on the centers of gravity concept. First, it comes perilously close to being a tautology. Second, it is not designed to achieve political objectives. The CoG concept essentially states the best way to use air power is to determine the best targets and then bomb them. Identifying which vital and vulnerable CoGs should be neutralized raises a many other issues, such as what the compellent objectives are, how the compeller plans on achieving those objectives, how the objectives relate to the interests and resolve o f the targeted state, just to name a few. Yet the theory regarding CoG provides few clues to guide that analysis. Thus, this approach is not overly informative. This illuminates the primary weakness o f the CoG theory, its emphasis is on achieving military, not political objectives. The CoG theory is best for identifying critical components needed for military operations. But successful compellence is not always a function of neutralizing military capability. Moreover, compellence is usually a result o f careful study of the ccTnflict’s entire environment and then precisely coordinating military, diplomatic, and political moves, which the center of gravity concept does not provide. In fact, th