f the problem. O f course, Qaddafi may have been unnerved simply by American warplanes bombing Libya. If this is so, the exact targets would not have mattered that much. Compellence would have been achieved as long as the raid hit something in Libya with a degree of competency and destruction. Clearly, the Libyan military had 349  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 362 --- proven woefully inadequate against U.S. forces. A direct confrontation may have been more than Qaddafi was bargaining for, or willing to endure. However, Libya’s military had also been routed in the naval battle in March 1986 and after this skirmish Qaddafi decided to escalate rather than recoil. Thus, the Qaddafi’s shifting policy was more likely caused by the bombs literally hitting close to home. The Aziziyah Barracks was the main command and control center for Qaddafi’s regime as well as his terror network abroad. Striking this target would clearly be a means to interfere with terrorist activities originating from Libya. But Aziziyah is also a primary residence for Qaddafi. Bombing Aziziyah was a direct and personal threat to Qaddafi and vividly demonstrated the cost of supporting terrorism. This probably had the necessary impact on his psyche. O f course, there are other factors which may have contributed to Qaddafi’s decision. For example, the raid precipitated a dramatic illustration of Libya’s isolation in the world. In the raid’s aftermath Qaddafi did not receive much support or protection from supposedly friendly states.® '* In combination with America’s bombing of Azziyah, Qaddafi presumably felt very exposed. The bombing o f Libya on 15 April 1986 induced a change in the foreign policy o f Libya. Something influenced Qaddafi’s attitude sufficiently to prompt a change in behavior because capability was not significantly decreased. Instead, a leadership vulnerability was exploited and the will of a ruler was significantly affected. It is difficult to determine the exact reason for