ng morale. By late 1944, pressures for such an attack were building. The Allies were searching for a way to end the war quickly; the European war was dragging on, limiting the amount of resources being sent to Japan. Moreover, after the Battle of the Bulge surprise the Allies wanted to prevent another last ditch German counterattack. The top British and American leadership generally supported the operation. The non-air force military personnel believed it could work and the air force people believed that these attacks would demonstrate the power o f strategic bombing.’" Interestingly, the AAF operational commanders reacted with ambivalence and stalled the operation, believing it would not work and was o f questionable morality.” In early 1945, the Americans and the British bombing forces agreed to conduct a series of city-busting raids in an attempt to deliver the deathblow and aid the ground war. The first plan, code-named Thunderclap, was not executed and the second. Clarion, was not carried out fully, mainly because the U.S. Air Force commanders did not support the idea and the controversy created by the infamous fire-bombing of Dresden in February 1945. The reasoning behind the bombing of Dresden was complex. There was the legitimate military justification that Dresden was an important transportation node for supporting the Eastern Front.”  During the operation, the British, as usual, merely aimed for the city as a whole, but the American bombers targeted the railroad marshalling yards specifically. Importantly, the U.S. bombing strategy had been gradually shifting toward striking railroad marshalling yards in cities. While these large targets were easier to hit than smaller 50  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 63 --- industrial plants, they also tended to be located centrally in the German cities. Considering the inherent inaccuracy of bombing at the time, the U.S. missions inevitably resulted in heavy collateral damage.”  Thus, the argument has been m