, international politics precluded that possibility anyway. The diplomatic exchanges allowed Israel to make its objectives and terms known to Egypt. Although Nasser had greater interest than Israel in possessing the Sinai and more international support, he was obviously concerned with Israeli escalation and would go to great lengths to deter and prevent any significant escalations. Israel had most o f George, et al.’s factors favoring coercive diplomacy in its favor, but not a usable military option. Admittedly, the inability to create a usable military strategy was mainly the result of factors included in George, et al.’s analysis o f coercive diplomacy, such as international support. Therefore, their work on coercive diplomacy would shed some light on the difficulties facing Israel. Nevertheless, military force was the primary method o f pressuring Egypt. Unlike the other factors, the lack o f usable military strategy clearly and unequivocally shows that Israel’s task was almost impossible to achieve. The failure to develop a viable military strategy contributed significantly to Israel’s failure to compel Egypt during the War of Attrition. 164  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 177 --- CHAPTER FIVE VIETNAM: PART I - ROLLING THUNDER 1965-1968 During the three years of the bombing campaign code-named Rolling Thunder, United States aircraft dropped 643,000 tons o f explosives on North Vietnam.' Initiated as part of the U.S.’ effort to defend South Vietnam and contain Communist expansion, Rolling Thunder proved to be a failure. Unable to compel North Vietnam (DRV - Democratic Republic of Vietnam) to stop its aggressive actions toward South Vietnam, the bombing also provided little bargaining leverage toward a negotiated settlement nor did it reduce the amount of supplies and men the DRV sent south. Rolling Thunder was a complex campaign. Nonetheless, there was general agreement among U.S. decision-makers that Rolling Thunder’s overall objective was to work wit