ategy of perseverance.”  The U.S. government wanted to make just enough effort to keep South Vietnam from falling while hoping that each escalation would be sufficient to make Hanoi break off the war and negotiate or the war would simply peter out. The ground and air operations were to smash the VC/NVA units and punish North Vietnam until its breaking point was reached. But optimism in Washington for success was already beginning to wane. John McNaughton, Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, even considered the primary objective in Vietnam to be avoiding a humiliating U.S. defeat, not saving South Vietnam from communism.™ The immediate rationale for the July decision to massively increase the number o f American ground troops was to forestall a collapse o f South Vietnam (by this time a continual threat). The VC/NVA summer offensive had been very successful and one axis of advance threatened to split South Vietnam in half.’® The U.S. responded with the deployment of 44 battalions of ground troops (some of which would be South Korean and Australian) with plans for a further 24 battalions in 1966. Moreover, America fundamentally changed the role o f its ground forces. The short-lived enclave strategy of spring 1965 intended to secure vital urban areas o f South Vietnam under U.S. protection proved inadequate. Not permitted to launch an annihilating attack into North Vietnam, the U.S. Army adopted a strategy o f attrition under the term "search and destroy". The ground forces were not 193  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 206 --- responsible for just stabilizing the situation. Now, the U.S. military hoped that by inflicting heavy casualties the enemy’s military capability would be significantly reduced to where the South Vietnamese could handle the war. Even better, the U.S. hoped that the North’s will would he broken under the strain o f massive losses. Like the Germans at Verdun, the U.S. hoped to bleed its enemy white.™ Concurr