ver push the casualty rate past the hoped-for breaking point of Hanoi.'™ Westmoreland and the senior leadership of the U.S. Army placed utmost paramount on the destruction o f the enemy armed forces. This stemmed from their experience and training that emphasized conventional warfare. Unfortunately, the U.S. Army failed to fully appreciate the complexities of this war. Clearly, there was a conventional component in the form of some regular NVA units and larger VC units operating in South Vietnam. Nevertheless, during 1965-1968, the conflict was mostly an insurgency operation led by the VC and NLF. Admittedly, the NVA and larger VC units posed a direct threat to South Vietnam and had to be thwarted. But the VC and NLF posed a continual threat of undermining the South Vietnamese government by subverting the population. The NLF/VC viewed the political dimension of controlling the population as being as important as the military conflict. And they were very effective in their war. The South Vietnamese government and military never were very stable organizations.”'* On the other hand, the U.S. Army relegated pacification and nation-building to secondary status. Attriting the VC/NVA was critical, securing the population and winning their hearts and minds was not. The U.S. made some effort, such as the Marines’  CAPs (combined action platoons) program and a pacification operation eventually given the title CORDS (Civil Operations and Revolutionary Development Support), but neither received the full support of the Army leadership. Moreover, the U.S. Army’s strategy of attrition at the least possible human cost led to massive 206  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 219 --- applications of firepower, often with little regard to the damage inflicted on South Vietnamese civilians. The failure to focus efforts on controlling the population and win their support resulted in fertile ground for the communists to live and operate. The U.S. failed to exploit the opportunity to