re was probably before Iran had decided on invading Iraq in 1982, but after Iran had p  O f course, the 1977 Protocol I to the Geneva Convention outlaws indiscriminate attacks on civilian areas. The Iraqi missiles were so inaccurate that any attacks in urban areas would in fact be indiscriminate. This operation may have generated compellent leverage, but it was a blatant violation o f the commonly accepted laws of war. Simply because I can acknowledge its success in no way means that I condone such activities or recommend future operations of this nature. 416  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 429 --- regained its lost territory. After 1982 Iran vested even more in achieving their maximum demands, the fall of Hussein. And the more Iran put into the war, the less likely a ceasefire could be obtained. Yet the Iranian leadership was willing to end the war to save the Revolution. A powerful compellent operation in 1982 may have convinced the Iranian leadership that the destruction o f economic infrastructure, more specifically oil production and export, was not worth invading Iraq. Even without achieving compellence directly, a more powerful aerial campaign would have increased the pressure on Iran over the duration o f the war. Thus, the collapse of the Iranian will to continue may have occurred sooner. Yet, Hussein’s apprehensions regarding provoking Iran were well founded. Until 1988 Iraq did not have clear superiority on the ground; the Iranian offensive in 1986 came close to victory. Maintaining the good graces o f the Gulf states was also critical to Hussein’s war effort. Although their interests lay in an Iraqi victory, their support could not be taken for granted. A more aggressive aerial campaign may have yielded greater compellent pressure, but the costs may have too high for the gains. The problem was that depriving Iran of oil revenue was only incremental not absolute. It would have been extremely difficult, if not impossible, for Iraq to shut down I