nian offensive, but due to political and military constraints it was never enough to be the final, overwhelming blow to Iran. Overall, it was a classic punishment strategy to inflict some pain, with the threat of more, in hopes o f inducing Iran to moderate its ground offensives or, better yet, decide the war was no longer worth the cost. The Iraqi motivations for the Tanker War were simple. While Iraq had turned back Iran’s ground offensives for the moment, Hussein could not be so sure of future success, nor could he be confident of Iraq’s ability to eventually overcome Iran in a prolonged war of attrition. And by 1984, Iraq’s economic situation had not improved much, with little hope o f recovery. Compelling Iran to accept a ceasefire or reduce their prosecution o f the ground war was the obvious course of action. Escalating the ground war was still dismissed due to the probable excessive costs. Intensifying the air war was the only real option. With Hussein in a war for the survival of his regime, constraints due to concerns over Iran retaliation were lessened. Iraq’s strategy was a simple one of targeting Iran’s economic assets and morale to increase its costs o f continuing the war, and to threaten raising the cost to 380  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 393 --- an unacceptable level.' Iran needed revenues from oil exports to pay for the war and the population’s support to supply the manpower needed to sustain its ground forces. A serious reduction o f either would have significant repercussions on Iran’s ability to wage war and hurt the government’s legitimacy and support among the population. Iraq hoped that inflicting some damage and demonstrating the ability to inflict even more (as well as direct threats it would do so) could convince the Islamic revolutionaries lessen their pressure on Iraq or to end the war before it got too painful.’*  Finally, Iraq was interested in bringing in the Western powers to increase the pressure on Iran to end the wa