evel of resources needed to supply most guerrilla operations and thus is ineffective. 455  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 468 --- Parallel Warfare and the Center of Gravity Revisited Pape emphasizes interdiction as a critical component o f the denial strategy.” Indeed, bombing can be an effective interdiction force either to deny supplies from reaching the battlefield or to deny the movement of armed forces from one area to another. Indeed, interdiction is most effective when used during mobile, conventional warfare, the very type associated with seizing large swaths of territory. But this is just one way to achieve military denial. A compelling state should not limit strategic bombing merely to interdiction because it is also effective in attacking the economic infrastructure and energy resources needed to support a military force. In fact, parallel warfare is an important strategy in military denial theory. It aims to disrupt the entire system of the state to reduce military capability. Because territorial control is a function of military capability, parallel warfare should be a very effective operationalization of the military denial concept. Instead o f merely focusing on interdiction or destroying the economic infrastructure, parallel warfare utilizes a broader perspective geared toward simultaneous neutralization o f a state’s critical components. Most states require the same resources, large amounts of energy and a modem economic infrastructure, to create and support a mechanized, modern armed force. Denial of these resources can easily effect a mechanized force, but it can also have some effect on the ability to support an infantry force in longer wars. Thus, parallel warfare has applicability for many conflicts in which military denial in paramount. 456  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 469 --- O f course, parallel warfare faces some contextual variables which may limit its applicability. For example, it may be too destructive for limit