truction on the state and society. The direct compellent pressure produced via administering pain comes generally with the destruction of economic infrastructure, or indirectly through civilian unrest. Attempts to gain compellent leverage through destruction of the economic infrastructure have not been very successful. Attacks on this sector rely on the pain of lost facilities and production, but this rarely exerts sufficient compellent leverage by itself. Pain is a relative, nebulous concept that can often be lessened with proper countermeasures. There is rarely a clear line which denotes at exactly what point the pain is too much to bear. In addition, the slow squeeze may hamper the generation of compellent leverage by allowing a targeted state to adapt to the bomhing. The targeted state’s leadership may even perceive the initially weak attacks as a sign of self-imposed limitations rather than strong commitment and credibility.'* Indeed, with the punishment strategy, much is dependent on the opposing leadership’s perception of whether future bombings are a sufficient threat to require the often onerous concessions needed to stop them. It is critical to remember that the punishment may be inflicted on the state as a whole, but it must be sufficient to convince the leadership to alter its policy. Unfortunately, leaders have shown a 432  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 445 --- remarkable willingness to accept both heavy damage to their state’s economic sector and/or grievous civilian casualties without changing their state’s behavior or goals. Germany, Japan, North Vietnam, and even Great Britain are examples of states that have not been compelled by pain and suffering. Leaders may not be fully informed and/or not fully understand the degree of punishment being inflicted on their state (or sometimes, even deeply care). They may believe the state can survive the damage wrought by more attacks and continue the conflict, regardless o f the actual damage. Leade