upplies and men the DRV sent south. Rolling Thunder was a complex campaign. Nonetheless, there was general agreement among U.S. decision-makers that Rolling Thunder’s overall objective was to work with the ground war to compel North Vietnam to cease its support of the Viet Cong and end its involvement in the conflict in South Vietnam. Rolling Thunder would apply direct pressure on North Vietnam, while ground operations in South Vietnam would deny victory and increase the costs of the war (primarily through destroying material and killing North Vietnamese). There was significantly less agreement over what Rolling Thunder needed to accomplish in order to achieve its compellent objective. Consequently, Rolling 165  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 178 --- Thunder acquired a wide range of goals, which were: 1) to significantly reduce the amount of supplies and men coming south from the DRV; 2) to destroy North Vietnam’s capability to support operations in the south; 3) to erode North Vietnam’s will by inflicting pain and making it clear there would be a price to pay for continuing the war; 4) to improve the U.S.’  negotiating position through pressure on North Vietnam; 5) to be used as a bargaining chip in negotiations; 6) to demonstrate U.S. resolve to North Vietnam and the world; and 7) to boost morale in South Vietnam.^ Nonetheless, various U.S. decision makers did not give each goal equal emphasis. Therefore, Rolling Thunder’s focus shifted as the importance of individual goals ebbed and flowed. In addition, the goals represented a wide range o f perceptions of how compellence could be achieved. Indeed, this was a problem throughout Rolling Thunder; decision makers held vastly different perceptions of the causal mechanisms needed for successful compellence. The heart of debate was whether military denial or punishment was the more effective compellent tool. The primary supporters o f the denial theory were the U.S. military, while the civilians tended to pr