rritorial control was not a significant issue at this stage o f the war and the low level o f military activity meant the Communists’  front-line troops needed little support. And this support is what strategic bombing has to undermine to be effective. The effectiveness of strategic bombing in military denial was further hampered by the Communists vast amount o f manpower and copious supplies from sanctuaries aboard. This resulted in a large degree of surplus within the Communist support system. Strategic bombing simply could not destroy enough to cross the threshold where undermining the war-making effort translates into tangible benefits for the UN ground forces. Air Pressure Meanwhile, the talks had broken down. Although most of the other primary matters had been resolved, the two sides still argued over whether POWs should be forcibly repatriated (the Communists’  position) or voluntarily (the UN’s position).’ ’ Neither side refused to budge, so deadlock resulted. Consequently, the U.S. continued to search for ways to increase the pressure on the Communists.” ’ ’  The debate came about because it was clear that many o f the North Koreans and Chinese captured by the UN did not want to go home. The Communists feared the public relations disaster if a most o f its soldiers refused to return and the U.S. government took a humanitarian stand that it would not force them (although it was probably not adverse to creating a PR disaster for the Communists). 487  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 500 --- This led to the air pressure campaign o f Summer 1952. The new strategy was geared toward the compellent objective o f achieving a ceasefire rather than strictly military objectives. The U.S. wanted the bombing to shatter North Korea’s remaining war production and lower civilian morale significantly. Just as importantly, the bombing was to inflict pain on China and the Soviet Union by destroying electrical power plants in North Korea that also supplied Manchuria a