esh in Washington. Thus, the potential of an intervention or other retaliation by China and/or the Soviet 183  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 196 --- Union was always a major concern in Washington and played a role in the eventual gradual nature o f Rolling Thunder/®® Rather than accept any of the options, on 1  December 1964, Johnson choose a compromise proposal o f Option A for thirty days and then shift to Option C. Option C was supposed to take some two to six months to force Hanoi to the negotiating tab le/' But Johnson postponed execution because o f a worsening condition in the South. He correctly assessed that the war would be won in the South, not by bombing the North, and felt bombing the North would be irrelevant if the South Vietnamese government collapsed."** ®  There has been considerable debate over just how much of a threat Chinese or Soviet intervention really was. It is impossible predict exactly what would have occurred given a certain American action. However, probably the only thing that would have provoked an intervention would have been a U.S. ground invasion of North Vietnam. Bombing, no matter how intense or what it hit, was probably not a sufficient cause for either China or the Soviet Union to intervene. But from 1965 to 1968 the U.S. government could not be sure of this. Although intelligence reports down-played the possibility o f intervention, they had also done so before China’s intervention in Korea. Only after detente under President Nixon would the U.S. be assured that neither would intervene. Many have criticized what they perceived as timidity by Johnson and his advisers for limiting Rolling Thunder merely at the possibility of intervention. O f course, the result o f such an intervention could easily have been catastrophic. Later scholarship persuasively demonstrates that both China and the Soviet Union were very interested in avoiding intervention in Vietnam and actually pressured North Vietnam to avoid provoking thei