his led to the partial adoption o f an economic infrastructure strategy that intended to destroy North Vietnam’s capability to wage war. The traditional targets of such a campaign, the industrial system, fuel holdings, and power production sectors, appeared to be exploitable; there was little U.S. planes were not capable of destroying. However, these targets were simply not crucial to North Vietnam’s war effort. Therefore, their destruction did not provide the U.S. with much compellent leverage. The first manifestation of a concerted economic infrastructure strategy was the POL campaign in 1966. Much like the attacks on the German ball-bearing factories during World War II, the U.S. hoped to reap substantial gains by honing in on a seemingly vulnerable, yet critical, aspect of North Vietnam’s war machine and economy. The problem was that the DRV was not driven by large amounts of oil and was not particularly vulnerable to oil deprivation. Although the bombing did destroy upwards of 70% of the DRV’s known storage sites, this was still not enough to have a major affect on either the battlefield situation or the North’s economy. The military did not need much oil for transporting men and supplies down the Ho Chi Minh Trail, U.S. estimates ranged as low as about 1,600 tons per 229  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 242 --- year. And the infantry units comprising the VC/NVA force in the south barely needed oil. North Vietnam’s industrial system was so small that it did not require much oil. Most of the population lived in rural areas, surviving on agricultural with primitive farming methods, thus needing little oil. North Vietnam’s actual holdings o f approximately 179,000 metric tons far outweighed its economy’s needs o f 32,000 metric tons.'"" In addition, after Rolling Thunder began in 1965, Hanoi increased its dispersed reserves to over 60,000 tons.'"" This oil was essentially immune from bombing attacks. Thus, North Vietnam’s POL holdings far outwieghed it n