as window dressing. Nixon and Kissinger alone would decide the course o f action in Vietnam, they simply needed to go through the motions. Kissinger had already outlined what essentially became U.S. strategy in an article written in 1968. see Henry Kissinger, "The Viet Nam Negotiations," Foreign Affairs 47, no. 2 (January 1969): 211-234. 250  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 263 --- realized the domestic cost would be far too high.'®*’  Thus, Nixon/Kissinger were forced from a goal o f military victory due to domestic pressure to one of withdrawing the U.S. from South Vietnam. Nevertheless, neither man wanted to simply abandon South Vietnam with a swift, unilateral withdrawal. They believed that would undermine U.S. credibility throughout the world and encourage Communist aggression elsewhere.” Although less frequently mentioned, a swift, unilateral withdrawal would also be unpopular at home. While there was an extremely vocal minority arguing to end U.S. involvement as fast as possible, the majority of Americans were more ambivalent. Though many were not opposed to a U.S. withdrawal, most Americans did not want to abandon South Vietnam to the Communists.'® I consider an outright military victory to have been a cessation o f active fighting between the two states and an elimination of North Vietnam’s ability to conquer South Vietnam. 251  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 264 --- Therefore, Nixon and Kissinger were left with the objective of a gradual withdrawal combined with ensuring South Vietnam would not collapse quickly.® Nixon wanted to force Hanoi to sign an agreement to halt its military activities. Thus, the strategy of gradual withdrawal, Vietnamization, and a negotiated settlement was born. Gradual withdrawal and Vietnamization were especially important as they would soften domestic criticism o f the war by reducing U.S. involvement and casualties.” Vietnamization was the term used to describe U.S. efforts to turn the war over to the Sout