Vietnam, from infiltrating into South Vietnam, and destroying North Vietnam’s resources needed to support the conflict.'”  The U.S. military generally assumed that North Vietnam’s will to fight would crumble under the onslaught as Hanoi watched its military capability being pulverized under American bombs. This was an economic infrastructure strategy, a la Mitchell, lifted from the WWII history books. It assumed that North Vietnam’s vulnerability laid in its small modern infrastructure. Destroying this would prevent North Vietnam from supporting the war in the South and would grind its economy to a halt. In February 1967, Johnson, following Sharp’s plans, authorized strikes on targets on a wide range of industrial and electrical power plants. Moreover, Johnson agreed to mining of rivers and estuaries in southern DRV.'” He was ' The United States chain of command in the Vietnam War was a convoluted mess. There was no centralized command for all of Rolling Thunder. Admiral Sharp was the closest thing to a unified leader, but he was Commander-in-Chief of the Pacific Fleet and stationed in Hawaii. He controlled most o f the Air Force units, and all of the Navy planes, bombing North Vietnam. But he was not an air power strategist. In addition. General Westmoreland retained control over authorizing strikes in southernmost DRV and Sharp was not in control of the attacks on the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos and Cambodia. Moreover, in Washington, McNamara and Johnson retained final control and freely exercised their authority. Target packages had to meet with Johnson’s approval, with him often approving each target. 213  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 226 --- slowly shifting away from the interdiction emphasis of Rolling Thunder. In March and April, Johnson approved strikes on even more industrial facilities and targets within Hanoi and Haiphong. The Joint Chiefs then advocated bombing North Vietnam’s electrical power plants. The lack of electricity would have a delet