n April 1969. These talks were severely limited by the fact the actual parties in the* conflict did not attend. In fact, even as they began, the War o f Attrition began.” 121  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 134 --- Egypt’s Objectives and Strategy On 8 March 1969, Egypt bombarded Israeli positions with heavy artillery fire. Attacks on Israeli forces would continue throughout March and April. This marked the beginning o f the War o f Attrition.” Nasser’s grand political objective for starting this war was to reclaim the Sinai Peninsula. His lack of faith in diplomacy was bolstered by the repeated failures o f negotiations in the 20 months since the Six Day War. Nasser hoped military pressure on Israel would break the diplomatic stalemate.” Nasser decided to initiate a limited, yet bloody, military encounter designed to accentuate the Egyptian military’s quantitative advantage while limiting Israel’s unquestioned qualitative superiority.”  Nasser realized that Egypt’s military could not recapture the entire Sinai in battle. Instead, Nasser hoped to take part o f the Sinai during a limited war and use diplomacy to secure the rest. The war would give Egypt a negotiating position of strength by exhausting Israel militarily, economically, and psychologically. The subsequent combination of internal and external pressure would compel the Israeli government to return the Sinai on Arab terms.” With heavy support from the Soviet Union, Egypt believed it was better suited to sustain a prolonged war than Israel. A prolonged war was contrary to Israel’s strategic doctrine of fighting quick wars and Egypt predicted the steady erosion of men and resources should be more o f problem for Israel. Most importantly, Israel was highly sensitive to casualties and Nasser believed that a 122  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 135 --- continual flow of Israeli blood would be a heavy burden. He predicted Israel’s will to fight the war would erode away as the casualties, as w