es in a stiff and protracted battle for a weakly defended Khorramshahr. Among other problems, the Iraqis tended to be indecisive, failed to understand the need for speed to defeat the less mobile Iranians, demonstrated little tank-infantry-artillery coordination, showed little ability for intelligence gathering, reconnaissance or sophisticated planning, and relied too much of firepower.^* The slow progress and heavy casualties led Hussein to halt the advance by November.^^ Iraq’s policy gradually formed over the next year as it grappled with how to proceed. A decisive military victory coupled with massive territorial conquest was not feasible due to Iraq’s military limitations. Therefore, Iraq had to rely on compellence to achieve a ceasefire. There were two active and one defensive compellent options. Iraq could increase the pressure on Iran by further ground advances or executing a strategic bombing campaign against economic targets. Or, Iraq could adopt a defensive posture to keep the territory it had already seized and hope Iran would wear itself out in futile attacks. The ground offensive option was apparently not very attractive because any major ground assaults would cost considerable resources and manpower. Hussein 365  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 378 --- wanted to keep the war as limited and inexpensive as possible and maintain Iraq’s civilian economic development/* In addition, Iran had the advantage o f territorial depth. To exert significant pressure on Iran, Iraq would have to advance far into Iran, pressing a poorly performing military. Thus, the ground offensive option would be extremely costly and might not work. Iraq also had the option of applying pressure via air power to increase Iran’s costs of continuing and undermining the domestic support o f the war. The most potent applieation would have been economic warfare aimed at disrupting Iran’s oil production. Revenues generated from oil exportation were critical to Iran’s economy, com