ffectively. The U.S. Strike in Lebanon - 1983 While similar in gross characteristics, this strike was in many ways the opposite of the 1986 Libyan operation. The Lebanese operation was a complete failure. Not only did the U.S. lack many o f Alexander George, et al.’s, factors favoring coercive diplomacy on its side, but the strategy behind, and execution of, the raid was so bad that any hope of generating compellent leverage was lost. This case demonstrates the need for a military option and the need to execute that military option well. 493  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 506 --- The United States involvement in Lebanon was precipitated by Israel’s invasion in June 1982 to drive out the PLO forces that had been harassing northern Israel. The Israeli Army swiftly defeated the overmatched PLO (and Syrian units in Lebanon as well) and herded the remaining PLO into Beirut. Unwilling to suffer the heavy casualties required to root the PLO out of Beirut’s congested urban sprawl, Israel laid siege to the city which had already been battered by seven years of warfare between the native Christians, Muslims, and Druze, and later the PLO and Syrians.On  the verge of annihilation and faced with the potential for enormous civilian casualties, the PLO agreed to withdraw under the protection of a multi-national force (MNP). On 25 August, the first U.S. Marines landed in Beirut, along with Italian and French soldiers to safeguard withdrawing PLO fighters and to maintain local peace. The PLO left by 1  September and the Marines pulled out just ten days later.^^ But the assassination o f the Christian President-elect, Bashir Gemayel, and the subsequent massacre of Palestinian civilian refugees proved that continued violence still plagued Lebanon. The U.S. decided to reinsert the Marines to provide stability and the MNF returned to Lebanon on 29 September with the objective of aiding the Lebanese government to re-establish its sovereignty. This entailed rebuilding the weak