tion strategy to reduce the amount o f men and supplies heading south. But the belief that the bombings could yield political gains had not been discarded. Rolling Thunder still inflicted pain on North Vietnam and remained a bargaining tool for the U.S. There was hope the punishment delivered by Rolling 187  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 200 --- Thunder would be sufficient to generate a settlement. To foster negotiations, the U.S. suspended Rolling Thunder from 13 May to 17 May. The U.S. did not publicly announce the pause as a specific peace overture, instead attempting, unsuccessfully, to send word to the North Vietnamese via diplomatic channels.*’ Washington’s basic settlement position was to remove all foreign military and quasi-military personnel from North and South Vietnam and to allow the affairs of South Vietnam to be settled by self-determination rather than the NLF/VC. In addition, the U.S. was willing to stop bombing North Vietnam after a reduction in Communist activity in the South.®® Hanoi made no indications o f wanting negotiations and, with the failure of the diplomatic communications, may not have even fully realized the significance of the pause. Rolling Thunder’s initial efforts to compel North Vietnam had failed. Analysis of Initial Rolling Thunder Efforts Actually, Rolling Thunder’s conceptual design of coercive diplomacy via a punishment bombing strategy was generally sound. There was an escalating bombing operation that seemed to demonstrate U.S. ability and resolve, yet conveyed the threat o f more intense bombing in the future, combined with diplomatic efforts to bring about a settlement before further military actions were needed. Unfortunately, Rolling Thunder was doomed by the failure to deliver punishment to where it mattered most. North Vietnam’s leadership, and a poor estimate o f their resolve. 188  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 201 --- The U.S. government clearly underestimated its opponent’s resolve. The DRV