ped Qaddafi would react so he could be "taught a lesson" via a powerful military response. On 18 August 1981, the U.S. Sixth Fleet began an exercise which included flights into the Gulf. After numerous peaceful intercepts of Libyan jets, on 19 August, U.S. F-14 fighters shot down two Libyan SU-22 fighter-bombers that had fired first. This small skirmish was the extent of the military clash. The Washington bureaucracy continued to squabble over the proper course to take vis-a-vis Libya. The nonconfrontationalists were successful in arguing against the use of military force except in response to direct attacks on U.S. military units and when there was irrefutable proof tying Qaddafi to a terrorist act. They wanted a minimalist coercive diplomacy operation. Although Qaddafi was relatively quiescent in 1982, over the next few years he would supply the ammunition needed for those who advocated a stronger policy. He continued to support terrorism and exhibited very hostile intentions towards his neighbors. The most immediate provocation was intelligence reports of Libyan assassination plots 324  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 337 --- against Reagan and his top advisors.® More conspicuous were Libyan machinations in Chad (including an outright invasion), Sudan, Niger, and Tunisia. The major U.S. action against Libya in 1982 was a unilateral ban on Libyan oil imports. However, this was more symbolic than damaging, as American oil imports from Libya were rapidly declining anyway due to changing market prices and conditions. In addition, European economic ties were far more extensive and the Europeans refused to take any punitive measures.^®'’  By 1983, U.S. attention was drawn elsewhere in the Middle East to more immediate crises, especially Lebanon. The Movement Toward Direct Confrontation In the mid-1980s the terrorist problem intensified. The fiasco in Lebanon was dramatically capped by a suicide truck bomb that annihilated the Marine headquarters in Beirut, ki