ials from entering North Vietnam. Instead, the bombing had to accomplish the more difficult task of locating and destroying dispersed materials already in the DRV. A blockade would be easier to achieve because there few supply routes entering North Vietnam. In fact, some 75 percent o f all Soviet aid came via cargo vessel, primarily through Haiphong.’"*  Closing down the major ports and the Chinese railroads would have decreased the amount o f supplies able to enter North Vietnam. This might have had some effect on the military situation, especially later when North Vietnam had become more dependent on Soviet and Chinese equipment. Yet, in all likelihood, even a blockade would not have had a significant affect because it would not be able to lower the incoming supplies below North Vietnam’s requirements on a 235  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 248 --- permanent basis.’"" For example, the Soviet Union eould have compensated for the reduction o f sea-going eargo by increasing the flow of material entering the DRV from China on roads. Another problem was that if the supply routes were severed, the Soviets and the Chinese would have faeed with the dilemma of whether to abandon an ally or confront the U.S. It is impossible to know exactly what would have occurred, but after the humiliation over the missiles in Cuba the Soviet Union might not have been willing to back down again. Were there any other alternative strategies for Rolling Thunder that might have made a difference? I believe the only possibility of success was a massive, swift operation in the spring of 1965. It is exceedingly doubtful if this campaign could have compelled North Vietnam to give up its objective o f unification because this operation would not have been able to deny the DRV the ability to support and wage war on a permanent basis. Probably the only two ways to force a permanent change in Hanoi’s behavior would be to eliminate its ability to fight in South Vietnam or actually oblitera