ical isolation made it a relatively easy target."® However, even before the new administration settled into office a policy debate over Libya erupted. The two basic positions that emerged can be classified as the confrontationalist and the nonconfrontationalist. Their fundamental differences became clear in the debate over the importance o f Libya and, more generally, whether military retaliation against terrorism would have any effect.'^ ®  Much has been made of the accusation that striking Libya was more o f a feel­ good action rather than a constructive effort to reduce terrorism. Some critics contend Libya’s connection to terrorism was overstated and actually Syria and Iran were more important sponsors. Libya was struck because it was weaker militarily and more politically isolated than Syria or Iran. Undoubtedly, Libya was not the sole source of terrorism. But under Qaddafi, Libya had been an unabashed patron o f not just Middle Eastern terrorism, but any terrorist group that struck Western interests. Moreover, Assad and the Iranian government apparently understood that terrorism was but a tool and there were limits as to what the U.S. would accept. Therefore, both showed some willingness to restrain the terrorists under their behest. Clearly, Libya’s weaknesses made it a better target. Conversely, Syria was protected by a friendship treaty with the Soviet Union and Iran was involved in negotiations to free the hostages in Lebanon. But the whole point of the bombing raid was to send a message that the United States was willing to use military force against those states which supported terrorism. Bombing Libya instead o f Syria or Iran would accomplish this. 321  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 334 --- The debate over Qaddafi and how to respond to terrorism raged throughout the Reagan presidency. The confrontationalists, headed by more hawkish members of Reagan’s staff, such as Secretary of State Alexander Haig and the conservative members of the Natio