ic as loss of capability it may be too hastily pushed to the wayside. 100  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 113 --- The Bargaining Side One of the problems with the air power theories is the emphasis on the military situation. War is an extension of politics, yet the aforementioned air power strategists tend to ignore the political situation (Pape being an exception). However, political factors can play a very important role, especially in more limited conflicts where compellence is not predicated on unconditional surrender. Indeed, the political factors may seriously affect the how the military force can be applied. Wars are fought within the boundaries of politics. And the end goal o f war is invariably a political objective(s). Unfortunately, air power theorists tend to gloss over the conditions and circumstances of individual conflicts which can influence the result. On the other hand, the social scientists view coercive conflict as a matter of persuasion which utilizes some violence. They concentrate on the political, rather than the military, aspect o f conflicts. Coercion is, after all, a political act. Military force may affect the situation, but the objectives are political and success rests on a favorable decision by the targeted state’s government (an inherently political act). The intricate particulars o f military strategy fall to the wayside as the political realm comes to the fore. The bargaining theorists essentially are attempting to identify the factors which influence the decision-making process during coercion. This dissertation will 101  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 114 --- not directly question the validity of the bargaining factors/ I am more interested in exploring ho^v military strategy can effect the political situation. A detailed examination and testing of the bargaining factors is a substantially different research effort. I will continue the use o f these factors for two reasons; 1) many esteemed scholars have conc