ion and punishment strategies. With smart weapons, the social-economic fabric of a state may be destroyed without killing the people as the pulverization strategy was wont to. This circumvents the legal prohibitions and moral reservations concerning indiscriminate bombing. Similarly, smart weapons can significantly enhance punishment strategies as they can quickly destroy the economic infrastructure, devastate the population’s standard o f living, or seriously disrupt the combat capability of most armed forces (purely infantry forces generally being excepted). Essentially, smart weapons may portend new strategies; precision pulverization and precision punishment. Problems with These Approaches History has shown the existing air power theory is not altogether effective in predicting and/or explaining what is the most effective method of using strategic Smart weapons, also known as precision or guided weapons, are munitions which have some form o f mid-flight guidance. Laser and electro-optical guided bombs are the most commonly used smart weapons in strategic bombing. Cruise missiles should be included as well. 91  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 104 --- bombing. Typically, each of the theories is a successful predictor/explanatory device in some cases, yet is inaccurate or inadequate in other examples. Economic Infrastructure Mitchell’s economic infrastructure strategy has some merit, but also some deficiencies. When attacking a industrial state, fighting an intense, mechanized conflict which relies heavily on its own production of war materials, the Mitchell strategy can be very effective. A prime example o f the potential was the Allied strategic bombing campaign of Germany during World War II. However, the economic infrastructure strategy is not appropriate for all scenarios. The strategy has less affect when the targeted state is not industrial nor conducting an intense, mechanized military operation. As Rolling Thunder during the Vietnam War perfectly