d compellence effort. In their memoirs Nixon and Kissinger ignore Commando Hunt. Biographers o f both also pay it scant attention. The lack o f attention in the literature indicates Nixon and Kissinger did not view it as very important. Maybe Nixon and Kissinger did not believe it could be of much value, but was necessary to appease hawks. Possibly they felt it was more tactical than strategic bombing and thus was the purview of the military to operate as they saw fit. Thus, Commando Hunt was not a specific, recognized, independent application of air power to achieve compellence and would not qualify as such under my definition. Instead, it was simply one part of the overall effort to shift the military balance away from North Vietnam. This is turn would increase the compellent leverage on Hanoi as it would no longer be capable o f achieving military victory. 306  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 319 --- Vietnamization and withdrawal of U.S. forces by lessening the military pressure Hanoi could apply.””  This would make Commando Hunt simply part o f the larger U.S. strategy of compelling Hanoi by weakening North Vietnam’s ability to achieve a military victory. Commando Hunt’s military objective was to hamper North Vietnam’s ability to wage war in South Vietnam. This would be achieved by reducing the logistical flow of supplies and men from North Vietnam. Therefore, this was a pure interdiction strategy. U.S. planes bombed four sets of targets: 1) trucks along the Trail, as well as truck parks, supply caches, and other bases on the Trail, 2) the transportation network, in other words, the roads, paths, bridges that made up the Trail, 3) the terrain itself, especially mountain passes and river fords to block roads and movements across waterways, and 4) the increasingly heavy air defenses along the Trail to facilitate attacks on the first three target sets.'*” Evaluating Commando Hunt, like all protracted interdiction campaigns, is difficult. Undoubtedly, Comm