re-emphasizing the need for air superiority. Yet this was tempered by the mistaken belief that gradual escalation was the cause of Rolling Thunder’s failure (the 1965-8 bombing campaign). Many in the Air Force, especially the leadership, felt the Linebacker campaigns succeeded due to their fast pace and ferocity. Therefore, the Vietnam War could have been won if Linebacker 1 1  (the 1972 Christmas bombing) had been implemented in 1965.'-^ Critical examinations of strategic bombing in Vietnam have been partially responsible for renewed analysis o f air power theory. One historian, Maj. Mark Clodfelter, USAF, analyzed the conduct o f the Rolling Thunder and Linebacker campaigns to determine the reasons for success and/or failures.'^® He concludes Rolling Thunder was a failure, and the Linebackers succeeded. Clodfelter believed the Air Force strategy concerning Rolling Thunder was so deficient, its failure was almost certain. The common myths o f gradualism and Washington micro-management causing the failure were false. Instead, Rolling Thunder failed because strategic bombing as implemented was wholly unsuited for ' This was especially evident during Rolling Thunder from 1965-1968. Although, to the Air Force’s credit, by the Linebacker campaigns, it had put some o f the hard earned lessons to good use. 67  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 80 --- the guerrilla/light infantry conflict of 1965-1968. Moreover, Rolling Thunder targeted North Vietnam, although the main threat was the Viet Cong supported by some North Vietnamese regulars. Destruction of North Vietnam would not necessarily achieve the United States’  goal of maintaining the existence of South Vietnam. But by 1972, the Vietnam War had changed dramatically. Conditions now favored the use of strategic bombing. The North Vietnamese Army, which was more heavily mechanized and modernized, had taken over the fight. Strategic bombing had a greater influence against this type o f army, since it relied on cons