ieved his objectives of increasing superpower involvement and bolstering his military position vis-a-vis Israel. Israeli air power could still deny Egypt the ability to seize territory, Nasser’s ultimate goal. Consequently, Nasser had little reason to continue the draining war. Meanwhile, Israel’s goals for a settlement diminished, which allowed the limited success o f the bombing to achieve a settlement. The War o f Attrition illustrates some weaknesses of air power and compellence. While a powerful tool for denying military capability to prevent loss o f territory, in this case air power proved unable to also deliver a decisive victory during an attritional struggle. Unless Israel was willing to continue the military denial and punishment strategy o f 1969, dramatically widen the scope o f the war, or risk a major military confrontation with the Soviet Union, there were no viable alternative strategies for the lAF. Attriting Egypt’s fielded military forces was simply incapable o f compelling Nasser to accept a ceasefire on Israel’s terms in 1969. Israel was finally able to achieve a ceasefire in large part because Egypt had achieved some o f what it wanted. Was air power successful during the War of Attrition? No, because it could not deliver Israel’s objectives, a decisive victory. Lack of Usable Military Option The above analysis shows that Israel’s compellent attempt was hamstrung by the lack o f viable and effective military strategy. The Israeli government was 163  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 176 --- highly motivated in its policy toward the Sinai. There was an increasing amount of domestic pressure to end the war, but not to give up anything substantial. And while there may not have been domestic support for a full scale ground incursion into Egypt, international politics precluded that possibility anyway. The diplomatic exchanges allowed Israel to make its objectives and terms known to Egypt. Although Nasser had greater interest than Israel in