s ready to agree. The Soviets may have exerted some pressure on Nasser or Nasser may have been willing to accept it even before he got to M oscow."' Regardless, on 23 July, Nasser announced he had accepted the Rogers II Plan and agreed to a three month ceasefire.'®® Nasser’s reasons for accepting the Rogers II Plan were numerous. First, Nasser’s belief that Egypt could only negotiate from a position of strength was closer to realization than anytime after the 1967 War. The Egyptians had regained air control over inner Egypt via the Soviet intervention and massive arms shipments and were seriously contesting the air over the west bank o f the Suez Canal. However, the Israeli forces were inflicting a fearsome toll on the Egyptian military. Egypt may have suffered up to 10,000 casualties during the last few months o f the 150  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 163 --- war."®' Yet, Nasser did not view the War of Attrition as the end o f the fighting, instead being merely a prelude to the eventual cross-Canal assault. Egypt could not sustain the pace o f the conflict and still put together such a large operation. A break was needed to rest, refit, and train its armed forces for the next war, and would allow them to move the SAM batteries right up to the Suez Canal. Egypt also had a number of political motivations for acceptance. First, the Rogers II Plan did call for Israeli withdrawal from the Sinai. Although Nasser was probably skeptical of the ability o f these negotiations to regain the Sinai, accepting the Plan would put Israel in a tough spot. If Israel then refused, it would drive a wedge between Israel and the United States and might mean fewer arms going to Israel. Conversely, an Egyptian refusal would probably result in more arms going to Israel. The Rogers II Plan would also directly involve the U.S. in forcing an Israeli withdrawal from the Sinai. Nasser calculated that only the U.S. could force Israel out o f the Sinai with diplomacy. Finally, Israel