rent attacking an opponent’s economic infrastructure if needed.® The major compellent operations began after Iran invaded Iraq in 1982 and Iraq wanted to pressure Iran to end the war. Subsequently, Iraq began to attack tankers in the Persian Gulf carrying Iranian oil as well as Iran’s oil production and export infrastructure. This would increase Iran’s costs o f continuing the war by depriving it of badly needed revenue. Iran retaliated with limited aerial attacks on Iraqi cities and oil facilities. Eventually, Iran also began air and naval attacks on Gulf states’ (especially Saudi Arabia and Kuwait) shipping in the Persian Gulf. This was supposed to convince the G ulf states to reduce their financial support of Iraq. Both Iran and Iraq also attacked urban areas to exert compellent pressure by instilling fear and discontent in the opposing population. 354  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 367 --- For most of the war both sides maintained the classic punishment strategy; neither applied the maximum pressure. Iraq eventually leaned more toward a weak economic infrastructure strategy late in the war as Iran’s ground offensives posed a major threat to Saddam Hussein’s regime. Yet even this was not a forceful execution of the strategy and was reduced when Iraq seized the initiative in Spring 1988. Iraq also executed a shock strategy incorporating urban attacks with ballistic missiles in 1988. Iran did increase their shipping attacks in response to the Iraqi actions, but several reasons were unable to execute a full-fledged interdiction strategy. Both sides failed to press their air power operations. Initially, Iraq only planned for a very limited war and thus had no reason to launch massive attacks against Iran’s oil facilities. But even later in the war, neither state used their respective air forces with firmness and strength that could dramatically affect the course of the war. One primary reason for this was mutual deterrence. Both states realized their priz