er, the strengthened and improved Iraqi Army slaughtered the Iranian infantry, adding significantly to the war-weariness in Iran. By mid- 1987, Iran was in an untenable situation. Unable to win the war, yet not willing to accept a ceasefire, the Iranian leadership would be forced to concede when their very power was threatened in m id-1988. Interestingly, Iraq’s lesser goal of compelling Iran to temper its ground offensives never worked well. Iraq tended to escalate its strategic aerial operations following major Iranians ground offensives. Nevertheless, the major force behind Iran’s reduction o f offensives apparently came more from exhaustion after 414  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 427 --- continuous costly defeats than Iraq’s strategic bombing. The attrition pressure o f the oil and urban attacks developed over the course o f the war. The amount of pressure generated during one short period (such as the length o f an Iranian offensive) was probably not sufficient to sway the Iranian leadership enthusiasm for prosecuting the war. Finally, Iraq’s use of the shock strategy during the War o f the Cities had a dramatic effect on Iranian morale in Spring 1988. By m id-1987 the Iranian people’s will to fight and revolutionary zeal was weakening. The missiles exploited a war-weary population to exert compellent pressure on the leadership. Importantly, for the first time Iraq had the capability to attack Tehran, the heart of Iran. Now, the war was brought directly to the seat o f government and the most populated Iranian city. Day after day the people endured missile strikes, with no protection other than fleeing Tehran. Iran’s leadership could witness first-hand the demoralization o f the Iranian nation. Attacks on other, more distant, Iranian cities probably would not have exerted nearly as much compellent leverage on Iran’s leaders. The missiles diminished morale in Tehran and probably more importantly, emphatically showed Iran’s leaders the decline in the