refore should be used with caution. Attempting to dramatically change the political situation solely with the shock strategy is a recipe for failure. Finally, success with the shock strategy is very difficult to predict; a technically productive execution does not guarantee success. This should also bode caution for any policy-maker contemplating use of this bombing strategy. Larger Lessons Regarding Compellence While this dissertation has looked at compellence through the narrow lens of strategic bombing, it does question whether pain is fully effective in achieving compellence. Clearly, strategic bombing with conventional weapons has been unable to consistently generate sufficient leverage via administering pain to achieve compellence. This is despite the fact that strategic bombing has inflicted considerable damage to some states without success. This does not bode well for the concept that inflicting some pain with threats of more in the future will yield compellence. O f course, this dissertation looks at merely one method o f employing force; other methods may be considerably more effective. Nuclear weapons obviously can inflict exponentially more damage and ground warfare can result in 478  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 491 --- far more casualties. This dissertation alone is not sufficient to challenge the foundation o f compellence theory, but does show that it has weaknesses in regard to one application of military force. This dissertation also strengthens two lessons regarding compellence in general. The first may not be overly surprising, but it seems to be consistently overlooked or ignored, the compellent operation must pressure the opposing state’s leadership. In every case of success, the targeted leaders perceived significant pressure exerted by the compelling state’s air power. In every case o f failure, there were few indications that the targeted state’s leaders perceiving much pressure. This is applicable to other forms o f compellent