cations for the strike, self-defense or reprisal. Self-defense was selected apparently because it was more politically palatable to the world community. Self-defense is a fully acknowledged right o f all states. Also acknowledged among international law jurists, a reprisal is an otherwise illegal act that is retaliation for an earlier illegal act by another state. Nevertheless, self-defense implies a higher moral standing than reprisal and therefore is more accepted by the international community than reprisal. This strike qualifies as self-defense according to international law, but it seems to fall generally under reprisal as well. Some international law jurists are questioning the current parameters of self-defense and whether a new category of using military force is needed in cases such as this. 332  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 345 --- military denial strategy to eliminate Libya’s ability to assist terrorists. Instead of denying conventional military power, the bombing would disrupt Libya’s ability to support terrorism. Indeed, the most of the chosen targets did contribute to Libya’s support o f terrorism. But it would have been very hard to eliminate or significantly reduce Libya’s expansive capability to support terrorism. Qaddafi had constructed numerous camps throughout Libya for training and haven for various terrorists."® Destroying most of these would require many strikes. Moreover, Libya had amassed large stocks of military equipment and still retained money from the oil boom. Qaddafi certainly could replace any lost equipment, if not from his warehouses full o f military hardware, then from the Soviets. Many o f the terrorist groups Libya supplied financial and material assistance to were quite small and needed little aid. It be difficult to eliminate Libya’s ability to support these groups. Two methods that might eliminate the capability were a strictly enforced, total blockade or a massive application of military force to destroy the in