e attacked in late 1950 and early 1951, mainly because the Chinese had exclusively infantry forces that were much better at ®  Like the Persian Gulf War, although it was an UN operation, the U.S. was the primary actor. The objectives and decisions of the U.S. government were invariably reflected directly by the UN Command. 482  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 495 --- avoiding aerial attacks and needed far fewer supplies. Nevertheless, air power slowed the Chinese pursuit o f retreating UN forces.^ While not strategic bombing to achieve compellence, these early activities show how air power can be effective in military denial against an over-extended conventional army lacking sufficient air cover. However, when faced with a largely infantry force that was adept at camouflage and night fighting, air power was less effective. Economic Infrastructure After the North Korean invasion, some Air Force leaders wanted to deliver a knock-out blow in a series of fire-bombings attacks on North Korean cities. This would hopefully destroy vital industrial centers and civilian morale.'' However, this was rejected in favor of a selective bombing operation focused on North Korea’s small industrial base, rail system, ports and other economic infrastructure targets to deprive North Korea of its ability to support military operations. The U.S. intended this campaign to aid the ground war as the U.S.’ primary objective was to prevent a North Korean victory. Subsequently, the U.S. executed a elassic economic infrastructure strategy bombing campaign in July, August, and September of 1950. The campaign ended because the U.S. had bombed nearly everything it deemed valuable to North Korea’s war effort. This operations’  results were limited. North Korea’s warmaking capability did depend on its native economy and there were indications of shortages of war materials at the front. However, it also received enormous aid from China and the Soviet Union. The U.S. was unable to prevent 483