eparated into three phases: 1) bombing North Vietnamese Army (NVA) supply lines and depots in southern Laos from November 1968 until April 1972 and Cambodia from March 1969 until May 1970, 2) the Linebacker I campaign from May to October 1972 (and its related antecedents in April 1972), and 3) the Linebacker II in December 1972. The objectives for each varied, but all were tied to the overall goal of extracting the U.S. from the Vietnam conflict while maintaining a viable South Vietnam for a decent interval, if not permanently. Nixon assumed the presidency in January 1969, and with his National Security Adviser, Henry Kissinger, set out to formulate a Vietnam strategy. It took them a few months to develop a coherent strategy, actually arriving at it more by default than anything else due to the pre-existing limitations and conditions. First of all, domestic opposition precluded a military victory and forced Nixon and Kissinger to realize that the U.S. had to decrease its involvement in the war. Yet, Nixon and Kissinger were unwilling to summarily and unilaterally withdraw the U.S. They settled on an overall objective of ending U.S. involvement in the war while maintaining, at least for an interval. South Vietnam. This called for the withdrawal of U.S. ground forces while strengthening South Vietnamese forces, 242  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 255 --- known as Vietnamization. Meanwhile, Kissinger and Nixon would try to achieve a negotiated settlement. However, Nixon was more skeptical than Kissinger about achieving success with negotiations prior to a shift in the military situation. Consequently, Nixon was always searching for a military escalation to tip the balance away from North Vietnam.^ Nixon’s first effort at compellence with military force was the bombing o f Cambodia in 1969. After assuming the Presidency in January 1969, Nixon quickly became frustrated by North Vietnam’s massive efforts to supply and fight the war in the South.^ Unable to bomb