. Later scholarship persuasively demonstrates that both China and the Soviet Union were very interested in avoiding intervention in Vietnam and actually pressured North Vietnam to avoid provoking their intervention or escalating to a broader war. But at the time, there was no way Johnson could have been certain of the Soviet/Chinese reaction. For further discussion see Daniel Papp, Vietnam: The View from Moscow. Peking. Washington. (Jefferson, NC: McFarland & Company, Inc., Publishers, 1981), Douglas Pike, Vietnam and the Soviet Union. (Boulder, Colorado: Westview Press, 1987), Daniel Zagoria, Vietnam Triangle Moscow. Peking. Hanoi. (New York: Pegasus, 1967), and John Garver, "China and the Revisionist Thesis", in Looking Back on the Vietnzun War, eds. William Head and Lawrence Grinter, (Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1993). 184  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 197 --- By February 1965, the situation in South Vietnam was not getting any better. In late December and early January, the VC decisively defeated South Vietnamese forces in a major engagement."** Worries about the immediate stability of South Vietnam resulted in the envisioned bombing acquiring a new goal, bolstering South Vietnam’s m orale."*"* At first, Johnson had been hesitant to bomb with an unstable Saigon, but now air strikes had become a means to restore stability. The immediate impetus for the bombing campaign came with a Viet Cong attack on American personnel on 7 February 1965. U.S. planes immediately retaliated by striking targets in southern DRV, but the Viet Cong struck again on 10 February."** Meanwhile, a group o f high-level American decision-makers had visited South Vietnam and concluded that without U.S. action defeat was inevitable. They recommended continuing reprisals against North Vietnam with the introduction of U.S. ground forces to prevent a VC victory."*® Air power would then inflict pain on North Vietnam to induce negotiations while ground power stabilized the situation