at the particular conditions, be they military or political, can dramatically affect its operation. Thus, it is better not to approach every military denial situation with one blanket strategy, but with a more flexible, analytical approach designed to maximize effectiveness. Smart Weapons and Military Denial Smart weapons seemingly increase the vulnerability of states to military denial strategies. Disabling large targets, such as oil refineries, no longer requires the expenditure o f hundreds of bombs carried by dozens of planes. Instead, precision-guided munitions carried by one or two planes can cripple a plant by hitting a few critical components. Moreover, targets that were once difficult to destroy, i.e. bridges, are now very vulnerable. The near simultaneous destruction of bridges throughout a state often profoundly disrupts the transportation network ' This poses an interesting question regarding the appropriateness o f a continued differentiation between strategic and tactical bombing. There usual distinction is that tactical is in direct support of combat units engaged in fighting while strategic bombing aims for the broader goal of degrading the opposing state’s ability to fight. However, the line separating the two has become increasingly blurred. 458  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 471 --- needed to provide logistical support for fielded military forces. Consequently, a compellent state’s reliance on smart weapons can quickly neutralize the communication nodes, energy production plants, energy distribution and transportation systems by a handful of well-placed bombs. This could seriously debilitate a state’s long-term military capability. Smart weapons, given the proper conditions, can play a major role in tactical bombing operations. Therefore, the state and its armed forces are now more vulnerable to exploitation with strategic bombing. This should increase the effectiveness and applicability o f military denial. Why Does it Work? When disc