l bombardment. Recent examples o f strategic 98  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 111 --- bombing with ballistic missiles has had a dramatic affect on civilians.'* Therefore, it seems hasty to dismiss strategic bombing’s impact on the civilian sector. Moreover, the civilian versus the military vulnerability does not apply to every conflict. In a conflict short o f full-scale ground fighting, the exploitation of the military may not apply compellent pressure and inflicting punishment may not be politically palatable. Pressure must be exerted elsewhere. The United States’ strike on Libya in 1986 is such a case. The approximately thirty bomber raid could not possibly neutralize Libya’s ability to support terrorist operations. Instead, compellence hinged on convincing Qaddafi to modify Libya’s behavior. The compellent leverage resulted from bombs exploding in Qaddafi’s compound, thereby threatening his personal safety and demonstrating American resolve and capability. Thus, the leadership vulnerability could be exploited with a limited air strike to achieve the desired political objectives. Additionally, it can be hard to differentiate between the military and civilian sectors and damage aimed at one is often also felt in the other sector. This makes it problematic to separate the two for analytical purposes. Today, there are many dual-use (military and civilian) facilities in most states. As evidenced by the Persian Gulf War, destruction o f targets such as power production and supplies, communications, and the transportation network, can be militarily justifiable and '*  For example, the Iranian civilians in Tehran were demoralized by Iraqi SCUD missile attacks. In addition, the Israeli population was terrified over a few dozen inaccurate missiles with small warheads during the Gulf War. A lack of expectancy and defenses may play roles in the effectiveness of ballistic missiles. 99  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 112 --- seriously hamper military o