ombing o f Cambodia in 1969. After assuming the Presidency in January 1969, Nixon quickly became frustrated by North Vietnam’s massive efforts to supply and fight the war in the South.^ Unable to bomb North Vietnam due to domestic political constraints, he instead send U.S. planes after supply lines, depots, and NVA bases in Cambodia. While the bombing inflicted some damage, it had little affect on North Vietnam’s execution o f the war and gained no apparent compellent leverage.'* The U.S. carried out another bombing campaign, against the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos, from 1969-1972. However, this operation was not really a specific compellent operation, being undistinguished from the overall compellent effort to decrease North Vietnam’s military capability. The bombing in Laos actually had started in 1965 as an adjunct to Rolling Thunder. When Rolling Thunder halted in 1968, the U.S.’ effort to sever the Ho Chi Minh Trail simply shifted to Laos (under the code-name Commando Hunt). This was a pure interdiction campaign to impede the southward flow o f weapons, supplies, and troops into South Vietnam. Although it increased the cost o f sending men and materials southward by inflicting 243  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 256 --- considerable damage, it apparently never was able to alter significantly North Vietnam’s operations. Nor did this bombing create significant compellent leverage for the U.S. While there are no indications Nixon and Kissinger considered this an important, independent compellent operation, it deserves mention due to the information provided concerning interdiction efforts.^ North Vietnam’s 1972 Easter Offensive precipitated Linebacker I as the massive communist attack threatened the survival of South Vietnam. Therefore, Nixon ordered a bombing campaign to eliminate North Vietnam’s ability to wage war.® Nixon had the freedom of action required to allow an overwhelming U.S. response due to the undeniable provocation o f the North Vietnames