ally halt the bombings if North Vietnam respected the DMZ, ceased rocket attacks on large cities, and agreed to prompt and productive talks that included the South Vietnamese government. Hanoi initially refused, but later accepted the U.S. offer in October 1968.'"" This was a major concession because for the first time the North Vietnamese had agreed to something other than an unconditional halt o f Rolling Thunder. This led Johnson to believe a bombing pause might have positive results, but he did not trust the North Vietnamese to honor the agreement.'’" 222  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 235 --- However, the need for bombing North Vietnam was lessened by the fact that bombing of the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos was not included in the proposed halt. So even without bombing North Vietnam the U.S. could still mount major interdiction attacks. Additionally, Johnson was under intense domestic political pressure to begin substantive peace talks to aid Hubert Humphrey’s Democratic bid for the Presidency.'” Therefore, on 31 October 1968, Johnson announced that Rolling Thunder would end and peace negotiations would begin. But then the South Vietnam government balked. It was not keen on negotiations that would probably lead to a U.S. withdrawal.'”  Talks quickly foundered amid stalling by South Vietnam and recriminations by North Vietnam. Uncertainty caused by the U.S. presidential elections in November also probably played a factor in the late 1968 failures.'” The post-Tet period of Rolling Thunder is often overlooked, but it featured a major concession by the North Vietnamese. A cynical interpretation would posit Hanoi had no intention of honoring the conditions and they agreed to a halt to support anti-war sentiment in the U.S. and to foment dissension between South Vietnam and the U.S. Therefore, they gave up nothing while gaining a bombing halt from a president under intense pressure to end Rolling Thunder.'” Admittedly, North Vietnam broke the two military c