rd Direct Confrontation In the mid-1980s the terrorist problem intensified. The fiasco in Lebanon was dramatically capped by a suicide truck bomb that annihilated the Marine headquarters in Beirut, killing 241 Marines. American responses to this and other ®  There was considerable debate in Washington over the veracity o f these reports. The nonconfrontationalists dismissed them. However, the reports were accepted as true by deputy CIA Director Bobby Ray Inman, a professional intelligence man who was not a Reagan idealogue. But this debate was extraneous. Even if the information merely reflected Qaddafi’s bluster and rhetoric, the high ranking members of the Reagan administration believed it. This acceptance contributed to the decision to take firm action against Qaddafi. '' The European reluctance to enact sanctions was based on a wide variety of factors, ranging from genuine skepticism of their efficacy to fear of appearing to kowtow to America to basic greed. However, the Europeans were not oblivious to Qaddafi. For example, France did prevent a Libyan takeover o f Chad by sending military forces to protect its former colony. 325  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 338 --- attacks via naval gunfire, an air strike, and fierce rhetoric, were ineffective and appeared weak. In addition, Islamic terrorists began to seize hostages in Lebanon. Numerous smaller terrorist incidents such as bombs and assassinations also occurred throughout the world. Pressure to do something was building, strengthening the confrontationalists position of more bellicose coercive diplomacy. On 3 April 1984, President Reagan signed National Security Decision Directive (NSDD) 138, which laid out the foundation for the principle of using force against terrorism. However, little action was taken as a result of NSDD 138.^’ But the terrorism situation worsened. On 14 June 1985, Hezbollah terrorists hijacked TWA Flight 847 and eventually forced it to Beirut. After the terrorists brutally mur