der into a strategic bombing campaign, a la WWII. They believed this would significantly bolster the denial operation by wiping out North Vietnam’s ability to wage war (more encompassing that acting as a conduit for supplies heading south). On the other hand. Rolling Thunder also was an effort to inflict pain and punishment on North Vietnam. The military tended to favor punishment in that they believed North Vietnam would not stand for the loss o f its industrial and economic infrastructure. Contrarily, the civilians generally viewed inflicting pain in terms o f the punishment strategy. These competing concepts were not mutually exclusive, and, in fact, were executed simultaneously. Because different U.S. officials were constantly vying for the execution o f the particular approach they believed was most effective, Rolling Thunder never developed a single coherent strategy. Instead, it was a mixture in which each approach was used, but none was prosecuted with extreme vigor as quickly as possible. The planners in Washington were not unaware of this problem. Assistant Secretary of Defense John McNaughton astutely wrote, "There is a conflict between the objective of ‘persuading Hanoi’, which would dictate a program of painful surgical strikes separated by fairly large gaps, and the objective of interdiction, which would benefit from continuous heavy bombing. No program 196  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 209 --- can be designed which optimizes the chances of achieving both objectives at the same time."®'* Johnson and McNamara also placed geographic limitations on Rolling Thunder, primarily in an attempt to lessen the risk of provoking China and the Soviet Union. Strikes within the areas around Hanoi and Haiphong and within 25 to 30 miles o f the Chinese border were prohibited.*® Additionally, McNamara permitted only a few strikes in the highly populated northeast quadrant of North Vietnam.®® Most of the lucrative targets on the Air Force’s list were in thes