f attacks were still low, only about 35 Iraqi missiles in all of 1983, with negligible effect.”  Iraq did not press home the urban attacks in an attempt to exact a significant amount of compellent leverage. Again, Hussein seemed more interested in proving capability and implicitly threatening future attacks rather, i.e., the punishment strategy, rather than exerting the maximum pressure. Iran responded with artillery barrages on Iraq border cities, such as Basra, and limited aerial strikes. The two sides eventually agreed to a UN mediated moratorium on shelling and bombing urban areas in June 1984.*" But in early March 1985, Iran accused Iraq of breaking the agreement after an Iraqi aerial attack on a steel factory and an unfinished nuclear power plant.** Both sides activities escalated quickly. Iraq bombed and missiled Tehran and other important cities. The primary exchange only lasted a few days, but it was the most intense Iraqi aerial attack so far. The reasons for the short duration are unclear. Possibly, the Iraqi Air Force was unable to sustain operations for long. Iran also surprised Iraq by firing newly acquired SCUD missiles at Baghdad, exposing Iraq’s lack o f strategic depth and discouraging further attacks.' Finally, a short operation that demonstrated Iraq’s ability to cause pain fit well into Iraq’s plans. ' Baghdad was only some 100 miles from the border, putting it within easy range of Iran’s planes and missiles, while Tehran was 300 miles inside Iran, putting it out of range o f Iraq’s current holdings of missiles and a distant and difficult target for aircraft. 386  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 399 --- The War o f the Cities resumed again in May and June of 1985. All told, Iraq would launch 43 aerial attacks on Tehran and Iran would retaliate by firing 12 SCUD missiles at Baghdad.** While Iran’s efforts produced no discernible effects, the Iraqi operations made some gains.*’ Many in Tehran choose to flee downtown areas, setting up ref