t important cities, Hanoi and Haiphong, and close to the Chinese border. It also led the U.S. to initially curb strikes on high-profile targets such as North Vietnam’s industrial and power production system, airfields, and major ports. Another restraining factor was the desire to assuage domestic criticism by making the clear link between North Vietnamese action and U.S. reaction. 170  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 183 --- Bombing transportation routes to prevent infiltration was easier to justify than destroying the economic infrastructure of one of the poorest states to indirectly affect the war. Johnson also wanted to keep America’s involvement as limited as possible to avoid domestic criticism and diverting attention from his Great Society programs. Indeed, he hoped to minimize his political risk by limiting public awareness o f the war.® A gradual escalation of Rolling Thunder would generate less publicity than a massive, rapid attack. These considerations helped tilt the balance toward an interdiction strategy, with later elements of the economic infrastructure strategy, and always with undercurrents o f the punishment strategy. Rolling Thunder was clearly not a simple, straightforward operation. In fact, there really was no single, coherent strategy pursued with tenacity and vigor. Its initial effort in April and May o f 1965 was a coercive diplomacy operation based on a punishment strategy. The first targets were low-value military installations in southern DRV. The bombing was intended to demonstrate U.S. resolve and its ability to bomb North Vietnam. But it failed to cow Hanoi. Consequently, the U.S. shifted more to interdiction. Nonetheless, elements o f coercive diplomacy, such as overtures toward negotiations, remained throughout Rolling Thunder. Interdiction made up the bulk o f the bombing strikes and lasted its entire duration from April 1965 to November 1968. Over 90 percent o f ordnance expended during Rolling Thunder was aimed at trans