would also be stopping China and the Soviet Union. The basic premises o f NSAM 288 would drive American policy over the next three years. Although NSAM 288 rejected any calls for American ground troops and attacks on North Vietnam, the idea of pressuring the north was already percolating in Washington. The U.S. government was aware that covert operations were a weak form o f pressure. But throughout the spring and summer o f 1964 the U.S. decided not to launch direct military strikes on North Vietnam.** However, this changed with the Tonkin Gulf Incident. On 2 and (possibly) 4 August 1964, North Vietnamese patrol boats attacked American destroyers supporting and conducting covert operations off the coast of North Vietnam.' The ' There is no question the 2 August skirmish occurred. There is uncertainty as to whether the 4 August fighting occurred or if it was another product o f the fog of war. 180  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 193 --- U.S. retaliated the next day by bombing the support base for the patrol boats.*’ The bombing did not lead to any change in North Vietnam’s behavior. In fact, shortly afterward, the North apparently made the decision to send major combat forces south for the first time.*® Meanwhile, conditions in South Vietnam continued to deteriorate. The U.S. government became convinced that South Vietnam could not defeat the Viet Cong.*' Indeed, there was growing concern that South Vietnam might collapse. Efforts to support the South Vietnamese government had proved to be only mildly successful. The mood in Washington had shifted toward the need for bombing North Vietnam to lessen the pressure on South Vietnam. Bombing was not considered a panacea, but if it could remove North Vietnam from the conflict it would help immensely.** Initial military planning envisioned a bombing campaign disrupting North Vietnam’s ability to support the Viet Cong. The U.S. military wanted to execute a denial strategy focused on airfields, bridges, railroad y