ften discussions of employing military force use the nebulous term o f "victory" to describe conflict termination. Only rarely do states intend to exterminate a people or wantonly destroy. Even in cases o f seeking unconditional surrender or complete conquest, the winning states ceased military action when the opposing state government’s concedes, not after physically occupying every square foot of territory or killing every last soldier. This led to my definition o f compellence being the intent to achieve political objectives prior to absolute completion of the military goals. Rather than creating a new term, with all attendant confusion, I decided to select between the two best existing options, coercion and compellence. As I have already stated, coercion includes more deterrence and less use of military force than compellence. I am more interested in actual operations, which include more threats o f punishment than deterrence, so I settled on compellence. The differences between the Dr. Schelling and my definition of compellence are not that great. I simply lean toward greater actual use of military force, while he emphasizes threats more.  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 19 --- create the term coercive diplomacy, they delineated its characteristics, uses, and limitations far better than any previous works. Upon analysis o f historical examples, they concluded that although coercive diplomacy is highly contextual, there are a number of factors that, if present, favor successful coercive diplomacy (and conversely, if absent, portend failure). These determinants focus on interests, risk manipulation, and bargaining technique (i.e. clarity of objectives)." In his second edition, George, et al., discarded a factor included in the first edition, a usable military option. O f course, they were concentrating on coercive diplomacy, in which military force plays a lesser role. Consequently, the military situation is not as significant as in cases with more exte