ve a suicide truck bomb into the Marine headquarters in Lebanon, killing 239 Americans.^® Some in the U.S. government advocated immediate reprisal against the Syria for their support o f the groups that been attacking the Marines and for the truck bombing. The U.S. military generated plans for an aerial strike by the two 495  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 508 --- American aircraft carriers stationed off Lebanon. However, Washington policy­ makers dithered over the decision and no bombing raid occurred.^® On 3 December, Syrian soldiers fired a handful o f SAMs at U.S. reconnaissance planes flying over Lebanon. This time, Washington decided to respond with an aerial reprisal. Naval gunfire was rejected because of its inaccuracy without spotters ashore. The U.S. decided to bomb two Syrian anti­ aircraft gun emplacements and a command and control facility for coordinating the local anti-aircraft system.^® The objectives for the strike were somewhat vague and varied among the policymakers. This was caused mostly by the chaos that characterized much of the Reagan administration’s foreign policy-making apparatus.^' Apparently, the primary goals were to demonstrate U.S. military ability and show Syria there would be a price to pay for attacking the Marines and American planes. Hopefully, this would compel Syria to reduce its confrontational stance and call off the Druze. Consequently, this operation was similar to the 1986 Libyan strike; a limited one- strike effort against ostensibly tactical targets in response to attacks on American interests to compel a behavior modification. The 1983 Lebanon strike was another example of the shock strategy. Nevertheless, the execution of this bombing operation was a tragic debacle. An unwieldy, over-bureaucratized command organization screwed up the orders so the pilots took off without a proper briefing or even fully prepared planes. The raid itself used outmoded tactics that exposed the American planes to stiff defenses f