uld not have exerted nearly as much compellent leverage on Iran’s leaders. The missiles diminished morale in Tehran and probably more importantly, emphatically showed Iran’s leaders the decline in the population’s resolve to continue the war. Iran’s leaders valued the survival o f the Revolution above all else. The war effort, and hence the Revolution, required the support o f the masses. O f course, the Iranian people had been primed for exploitation; the missiles 415  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 428 --- probably would not have had the same effect if launched even eighteen months earlier. But the effect o f the missiles is undeniable.^ One interesting question is what would have happened if Hussein had decided to forgo the punishment strategy for applying the maximum compellent pressure immediately. When Iraq increased its attacks on Iranian shipping in 1986 and 1987, it led to marked decrease in Iran’s amount o f oil exports.'^' Even without resorting to maximum pressure, the depravation of oil revenues hurt Iran’s economy. Iraq certainly could have pursued bombing attacks on oil tankers and Iranian export facilities more aggressively, albeit at greater cost. For example, during the war only a small fraction of shipping was attacked, only some 1  to 2 percent.Iraq  could have also used more effective munitions, such as laser- guided bombs, to inflict greater damage to the large tankers that were difficult to harm seriously with small anti-ship guided missiles. However, it is unclear as to whether a more aggressive strategic bombing campaign would have been sufficient to force a ceasefire. Iran had high resolve and will to continue the war. Indeed, the timing of an economic infrastructure strategy may have been important. The greatest chance for a ceasefire was probably before Iran had decided on invading Iraq in 1982, but after Iran had p  O f course, the 1977 Protocol I to the Geneva Convention outlaws indiscriminate attacks on civilian areas. The I