ence, but there are some important considerations before issuing a failing grade. First, the bombing’s effectiveness was mitigated by a number of factors. Bombing accuracy remained poor (although considerably better than early British attempts) and German industry, led by Albert Speer, was remarkably resilient. He was able to maintain production levels until September 1944, aided by an economy that was actually under-mobilized for most of the war.”  Additionally, nearly three quarters of the total bomb tonnage was dropped in the final ten months of the war, from 1  July 1944 onward.”  Before that, a tedious buildup, the need to gain air superiority, and diversions (especially for the Normandy campaign) hampered the strategic bombing effort. Not surprisingly, the most significant damage to the German war economy was inflicted after 1  July 1944. But there was a time lag before the effects of the damage were felt on the battlefield. And by the time these effects were showing up, the war was in its concluding stages. This meant that the Americans did not concentrate on the targets with the greatest potential, petroleum and transportation, until the middle of 1944.^ The famous Ploesti strike in August 1943 targeted the Romanian petroleum refineries. Although this raid, as well as a few others, caused some damage, the attacks were not sustained enough to result in long-term damage to the petroleum industry. 52  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 65 --- Germany was an oil-poor state that relied on synthetic production and imports. The AWPD-1 recognized that the deprivation o f petroleum would indirectly neutralize a critical German center o f gravity, industry, and seriously affect the other centers of gravity, such as the military. Rather than attempt to destroy an entire center of gravity, petroleum was an identifiable, vulnerable target whose destruction would have an enormous ripple effect. In fact, the effects of the petroleum campaign on the German war machin