mmit and to discuss Vietnam. Above all, Kissinger wanted to separate Hanoi from its primary ally, the Soviet Union.*’®  In Moscow, Kissinger linked the situation in Vietnam to the U.S.-Soviet relations, warning the success of the Easter Offensive might force Nixon to cancel the summit. Brezhnev seemed sympathetic, but was not willing to reduce shipments to North Vietnam. The U.S. would have to end the shipments by force and the Soviets gave indications their reaction would be muted.*® ®  By 1972, the Soviet Union had become more important than China, still stuck in the Cultural Revolution. Only the Soviets could supply the weapons and supplies, including tanks, artillery, SAMs, radars, and oil that North Vietnam needed for its war. 272  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 285 --- Kissinger also needed to try his secret diplomacy once more to demonstrate the U.S.’ intent to settle and to see if the bombing and detente had changed Hanoi’s position. On 2 May, Kissinger met with Hanoi’s representative in Paris. The talks were a disaster.** Hanoi had been encouraged by the fall o f a major South Vietnamese city the day before. North Vietnam was in no mood to compromise, and its representative only recited its standard settlement terms. Kissinger presentation o f a new U.S. offer that demanded only a ceasefire and return o f POWs in return for a complete withdrawal o f American troops within four months was rejected out of hand.'®* Nixon then contemplated, and rejected, options ranging from bombing the irrigation dikes to using nuclear weapons to reintroducing American ground troops.'®' He settled on the less risky escalation o f mining Haiphong harbor and launching a bombing campaign against North Vietnam. Besides the problem of domestic opposition, Nixon was still concerned that this operation would threaten the upcoming summit. But Nixon believed the Soviets would not jeopardize their relations with the U.S. even over this direct challenge.'®’ Linebacker 1 Begins