ations was the best option. While the damage to North Vietnam’s military capability was not insignificant, the primary compellent leverage apparently resulted from the shock of the bombings. This case study demonstrates how a shift in the objectives and changing conditions of a conflict can dramatically affect the air power’s ability to wield compellent leverage. From 1965 to 1968, air power had little chance o f compellent success, regardless of which strategy the U.S. implemented. Yet by 1972 the U.S.’ objectives had dropped from convincing North Vietnam to give up the goal of unification to preventing it from conquering South Vietnam in the immediate future. Meanwhile, the Communists had shifted from guerilla/light infantry in an attritional 248  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 261 --- struggle to undermine South Vietnam and erode the U.S.’ will to fight to mobile, conventional warfare aiming to destroy South Vietnam’s military and conquer the state. Military denial via air power proved much more effective against conventional warfare than against attritional warfare. Consequently, the U.S.’ objectives were much easier to achieve. O f course, Nixon also had a wider range o f options than Johnson due to detente with China and the Soviet Union. Nixon was also more willing to weather domestic criticism, feeling sure the "silent majority" was supporting him. Finally, the shock strategy of Linebacker II was perfectly suited to the short duration, yet high-impact need of Nixon in December 1972. A mild, slowly escalating bombing operation, much like the early Rolling Thunder in April 1965, probably would have met with failure. Richard Nixon Takes Over After assuming the presidency in January 1969, Richard Nixon and his National Security Advisor, Henry Kissinger, quickly discovered the difficulties in formulating a Vietnam strategy. Nixon and Kissinger were the most important figures in this administration’s foreign policy. Suspicious of the State Department, a