t of nuclear coercion/compellence is not included. This may seem odd considering that over the past forty years civilian and military theorists have exerted an enormous amount of brainpower to determine the how and why of nuclear coercion (the manipulation of the nuclear threat is referred to as coercion rather than compellence).’’ Much o f the analysis and theory is based on the similar notion of bargaining factors, i.e. balance o f risk, resolve, and punishment. However, unlike conventional compellence, the basis for nuclear coercion is the ability to easily inflict enormous punishment. Thermonuclear weapons can quickly obliterate the social, governmental, and industrial structures of any state. A nuclear state can threaten devastation beyond what nearly every state would consider acceptable to achieve coercion. Conventional weapons cannot inflict a similar level o f punishment. Hence, compellence with these weapons must rely on other factors to succeed. Moreover, 17  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 30 --- this compellence does not have the ‘all or nothing’  flavor o f nuclear coercion.^ These two differences alone — there are more—  show that conventional compellence operates under a distinctive set of parameters and conditions. As with deterrence, the disparity is sufficient to warrant separate analysis. P  Compellence can be achieved with a minimal amount o f conventional force being expended. Even a minimal thermonuclear exchange would result in catastrophic damage. 18  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 31 --- CHAPTER TWO DEVELOPMENT OF THE RELEVANT THEORY There is a diverse body of theory and analysis which relates to the use o f air power (specifically strategic bombing) to achieve compellence. Yet surprisingly little theory directly addresses the subject. Much of the theory instead focuses on the operational aspects of conducting strategic bombing campaigns rather than the more abstract concept of linking politics and war. Moreover, the ad