apons can) as states are highly resistant to compellent pressure. More important, Pape recognizes that bombing strategies which deny an opposing state its ability to defend or seize territory have the best chance of success.” In fact, the issue o f territory, not simply military denial, is the key. Strategic bombing has proved to be very effective in influencing who controls territory.”  And the military denial approach with strategic bombing is best for 450  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 463 --- disrupting the conventional military capability needed to control territory. Furthermore, what is important and, to a lesser extent, what is vmlnerable depends on the compeller’s objectives and the mechanisms needed to achieve compellence. Thus, the most appropriate time to use strategic bombing is when political (compellent) objectives are tied to territorial issues. Strategic bombing consistently generates the most compellent leverage using military denial than any other approach because air power can deny a state its ability to control or take territory. In many cases the success or failure of compellence is tied to command of territory, either by direct control, by the larger ramifications o f losing/gaining a piece of territory, and/or by demonstrating the ability to control territory. Actually, grand-scale military objectives are generally expressed in terms of controlling territory and/or destroying the opposing enemy forces.' Being an application o f military force, strategic bombing can best, and most directly, influence the military situation. The military situation is the most powerful determinant of who controls territory. Consequently, bombing is most effective when the political objectives coincide closely with military territorial objectives or when the control of territory can lead to achieving the political objectives. The problem arises when strategic bombing is called upon to achieve ' I am referring to conventional military operations here. O