rtheless, destroying the industrial system was not the only objective of the incendiary campaign. The Americans were growing increasingly concerned with the prospective invasion. The Japanese were viewed as suicidal fanatics who fought to the death (often an accurate assessment). High casualties during the invasion were predicted. Meanwhile, there was the belief that the very 60  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 73 --- destructiveness of the incendiary campaign could shock and demoralize the Japanese enough to force a surrender. The lure of the deathblow to crush the spirit o f the Japanese, a la Douhet, had been kindled."” As the campaign progressed, the deathblow concept became the dominant feature of the AAF operation and the higher echelons o f military and political leadership did nothing to dissuade such action. Indeed, firebombing became an end unto itself rather than part o f a planned, coordinated effort to end the w ar.'" Thoughts on how to apply the maximum compellent pressure on the Japanese government and military were not considered, ignored, and/or dismissed."’ The destruction of cities became the compellent pressure. By the summer of 1945, Japanese industrial production was plummeting, but not just due to firebombing. Japan was a natural resource poor island dependent upon shipping to import many vital materials. The submarine campaign decimated Japan’s merchant shipping, thereby depriving those critical resources. By the time the B-29 attacks spread beyond Japan’s major cities, industrial production was already collapsing due to a lack of raw materials. In nuclear warfare jargon, the firebombings were beginning to "bounce the rubble" of the Japanese economy."® The B-29s also sowed sea-mines and attacked the transportation systems, further contributing to the disintegration o f the Japanese economy. Still, the main effort continued to be the firebombings. The nuclear attacks were simply a continuation of the incendiary campaign. Six days aft