rt terrorism. There was no better target for this effort than Libya. For many years leading up to the 1986 attack, Libya had clearly supported and instigated terrorism in the Middle East and Europe. Colonel Muammar Qaddafi, Libya’s leader, made no bones about his expansion ambitions and his deep antipathy for the West. His disruptive policies put him at odds with 311  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 324 --- the Western states, his neighbors, and even his Arab brethren, leaving him more isolated than other terrorist supporting states. Consequently, the U.S. executed a campaign to force Libya to diminish its support o f terrorism. Initially, the U.S. relied more on diplomatic and economic sanctions to pressure Libya. However, these failed to induce any apparent change. Nor did a naval skirmish in early 1986 temper Libya’s actions or Qaddafi’s rhetoric. In the face of a number of terrorist incidents in early 1986, the U.S. decided to take direct military action against Libya. An air strike was deemed the best response due to its high visibility and low risk o f numerous American casualties. The U.S. had a number o f targeting options. U.S. policy-makers rejected economic infrastructure targets due to the perceived need to tie all targets with the Administration’s justification o f the raid as self-defense. Consequently, the bombers struck training/housing facilities and command and control centers for terrorists. A few bombers also hit parts o f the Libyan military, i.e. airfields and air defense systems, that supported terrorism or could interfere with the raid. Qaddafi’s primary headquarters was then added to the list to increase the pressure directly applied to him. This would maximize the psychological effect on the key to compelling Libya, Qaddafi, with this single raid. In fact, although future strikes were considered a possibility, there was not a coherent, accepted plan for an extended or continuous campaign. Thus, the U.S. adopted a shock strategy. 3