gnificant effect.'®' In fact, the infiltration o f men actually increased from 35,000 in 1965 to 90,000 in 1967.'®’ Moreover, even with Rolling Thunder, North Vietnam was able to send enough men and supplies south to launch the 1968 Tet Offensive. The primary problem was the very type of war being fought. Interdiction is most effective when used against an army fighting an intense, mobile, conventional war which requires large amounts of supplies. Yet, from 1965 to 1968, the NVA and VC forces relied on light infantry forces. The majority of soldiers were VC who fought infrequently using small-unit guerilla tactics, thus needing few supplies and resources." In addition, only about one-third of their total supply requirement eame through the DRV, most o f it ammunition.'®" U.S. analysts estimated that the total NVAA/C force needed only some twenty to eighty tons per day (depending on the intensity of the fighting).'®" This load could be moved by less than 20 trucks.'®" By late 1965, McNamara admitted that the North could move 200 tons of supplies per day to the South, even under attacks by Rolling Thunder.'®" American air power could not possibly locate and destroy enough of these meager supplies in the jungles of Southeast Asia to make a significant " Even as late as 1967 the U.S. estimated there were only 55,000 NVA soldiers, but 245,000 VC in South Vietnam. 227  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 240 --- difference on the battlefield. Any inefficiencies and destruction from bombing were simply overwhelmed by massive North Vietnamese (and Soviet/Chinese) resource expenditure to keep the flow going.'®’ In addition, North Vietnam’s transportation system (and the Ho Chi Minh Trail in Laos) primitiveness defied attempts to disrupt it with bombing. The North relied on simple and labor-intensive transportation that was inefficient but flexible. Most o f the transportation infrastructure consisted o f dirt roads and trails which were essentially impossible to destro