ear of an unacceptable Iranian counter-escalation. In late August, the Iraqi Air Force resumed its strikes on oil facilities and tankers. Besides Kharg Island, Iraq also resumed its strikes against the more distant export facilities. In the last four months of 1987, Iraq prosecution of the Tanker War reached its peak for the entire war.'^® Consequently, Iran’s oil exports fell 399  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 412 --- from an August level of 2.7 million barrels per day to 2.1 million bpd in September and never recovered.”®  Iraq also went after a wide range of economic targets within Iran. Iraq focused on power plants and refineries, apparently to cripple Iran’s ability to provide fuel and electricity for its people during the upcoming winter to foster domestic unrest.” ’ The Iraqi attacks must have increased the cost o f the war to Iran as the drop in oil exports meant millions o f dollars in lost revenue. But instead o f forcing Iran to accept a ceasefire, Iran matched Iraq’s escalation. The latter part o f 1987 was the most intense period of the entire Tanker War. The newly developed Pasdaran naval forces executed many of these shipping attacks and again focused on Kuwaiti and Saudi shipping.” ®  Although the light weapons carried by their small craft only rarely inflicted severe structural damage, they were highly aggressive and could maintain an operational pace higher than the Iranian Air Force. The Pasdaran, with some Regular Navy help, also continued to lay mines and then shot a number of Silkworm anti-ship missiles at oil facilities in Kuwait.”’ These actions led to direct fighting with U.S. forces in September and October.” ®  Iran’s escalations also forced the European powers to increase their commitments to protect shipping in the Persian Gulf.” ' Nevertheless, Iran’s escalation did not yield any positive results. Although suffering some decline in its oil exports and some damage to oil facilities, Kuwait failed to be cowed by Iran and recei