ntage of military denial is that it tends to mitigate the effects of interest and resolve more than the other strategies. As Robert Pape showed, simply weighing a balance o f interests and resolve is not sufficient to explain and predict the success o f compellence.^^ States with lower interests and weaker resolve have compelled states with higher interests and stronger resolve to modify their behavior and even surrender when successfully executing military denial. This is probably because the absolute nature of military denial tends to lessen the affects of resolve and interest. Regardless o f interests and resolve, a victory (and defeat) is diffieult to hide and ignore. 464  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 477 --- O f course, interest and resolve are also tied into the compellent objectives. One objective may yield a lower amount of interest and resolve than another. For example, if the compellent objective is removal of current leadership or unconditional surrender, the interest and resolve of the targeted state will probably be high. Military denial again can mitigate the effects o f high compellent objectives because it can make the costs o f continuing very high by threatening the control of territory. The costs o f continuing versus surrendering also raises an interesting point that is often ignored, the pain associated with the destruction military denial causes. Losing territory or preventing a state from seizing territory can be costly. Effective military denial also tends to deliver a tremendous amount of damage to targeted state. The damage caused by all the bombs dropped in a military denial campaign can be quite extensive, especially if the economic infrastructure is heavily damaged. Leaders are not totally oblivious to the damage being wreaked on their state. Besides the suffering of their people, leaders usually recognize that a significant amount of damage weakens their power vis-a-vis other states. It may not be the primary reason, but it