ey ended in May 1970 after their revelation in the press yielded a storm o f domestic criticism. B-52 bombers carried out 3,630 sorties and dropped 100,000 tons of bombs during these fourteen months."*® The bombing actually followed more o f the precepts o f tactical bombing than adhering to any strategic bombing strategy. Menu struck military bases and logistical centers to affect directly the North Vietnamese Army’s ability to function in South Vietnam (or at least that’s what the U.S. intended the bombs to hit, accurate intelligence was always hard to acquire). Such targets and intention generally is considered tactical rather than strategic bombing. Basically, Menu bombed what were traditionally tactical targets in a dual tactical and strategic role. Regardless of the semantics, Menu was a compellent operation. And regardless of the targeting or strategy. Menu was not very successful. From a strictly military standpoint, there is little evidence that the bombings crippled NVA operations in Cambodia or South Vietnam. Undoubtedly, the 257  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 270 --- bombings did inflict damage on NVA positions, but the damage was never enough to alter the course o f the war significantly. A measure of the ineffectiveness o f Menu was that in May 1970, the U.S. and South Vietnamese ground forces launched an attack into southern Cambodia. Ostensibly to support the failing Cambodian government, the attack also intended to destroy NVA base areas.®' Even though the Menu bombing had been going on for a year, the limited U.S./ARVN operation seized and destroyed an enormous stockpile of supplies, including enough weapons to equip 74 battalions, over 16 million rounds of small- arms ammunition and 14 million pounds o f rice.®’ The North Vietnamese showed no more willingness to make concessions or even negotiate seriously during the Menu bombings. They had not been intimidated by the Menu bombings. Compellence with bombing in this instance was not suc