at victory was only achievable through the destruction of the Japanese military and occupation of Japan’s industrial heartland."® By the summer of 1944, American strategy formally included an invasion of Japan."® But the invasion could not happen immediately. The Americans still had to seize the Marianas, the Philippines, and Okinawa to provide bases for the eventual assault. Moreover, the Allies needed to defeat Germany so resources could be shifted to the Pacific. Therefore, a broad pressure strategy to weaken Japan as much as possible before the eventual invasion was adopted. Each military branch was allowed to create and implement its own operational strategies with little overall guidance."’ There was no coordinated strategy specifically aimed at compelling Japan to surrender short of an invasion. 57  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 70 --- The Navy’s strategy was to attack the Japanese Navy and sever Japan’s sea lines o f communication. The American navy was successful in both areas. Surface ships, especially aircraft carriers, hounded the Japanese navy either into ports or to the ocean floor. Submarines slaughtered the Japanese mercantile fleet, accounting for 60 percent o f 8 million tons of shipping sunk during the war."* Japan started the war with 6 million tons of shipping, yet even with the addition of some 3 million tons, by December 1944 Japan was down to 2.5 million tons."" The American Navy also supported the island-hopping campaigns of the Marines through the Central Pacific and General McArthur’s forces through the Southwestern Pacific. The eradication of the Imperial Navy, the seizure o f Pacific islands, and the decimation o f the mercantile fleet cut Japan off from the raw materials needed to support its armed forces and economy. Meanwhile, the Army Air Force planned to conduct a selective strategic bombing campaign similar to the one in Europe.'™ The AAF hoped that the bombings could force a surrender, demonstrating the efficacy o f ai