many. At the Casablanca Conference in January 1943 the Western Allied military and political leadership determined that the aerial offensive should aim to bring about the "progressive destruction of the German military, industrial, and economic system and undermine the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened".'"' The bombing was supposed to weaken the German war machine, thereby supporting the invasion of Europe and the subsequent ground war. The British and the Americans had considerably different ideas on how to conduct strategic bombing. The British adopted night-time area bombing of German cities in order to destroy the will of the German population to resist and secondarily to decrease industrial production. In contrast, the Americans stressed selective bombing to cripple key industries and infrastructure systems in the German war economy. This would undermine the ability of the German military to resist. The British Operation While the British strategic bombing campaign is infamous for its city- busting tactics, the British initially attempted selective bombing attacks against industrial targets in 1940. However, there were too few bombers, with too little capability, and which suffered prohibitive losses with very limited results. 41  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 54 --- Consequently, the British concluded that night-time bombing was the only acceptable operational strategy/' However, the accuracy of the night bombing was abysmal. The Butt Report of 1941 concluded that only one-third o f the British bombers were able to hit within 5 miles o f the intended target (which were often quite large)."*^ The lack o f accuracy led to a debate over the future role o f the British Bomber Command in late 1941 and early 1942. There were many people, including Prime Minister Winston Churchill, who still believed strategic bombing could lay waste to German cities."’  Moreover, the British were still in