ng campaign to eliminate North Vietnam’s ability to wage war.® Nixon had the freedom of action required to allow an overwhelming U.S. response due to the undeniable provocation o f the North Vietnamese attack and the changing international political picture. During the past few years, Nixon and Kissinger had worked hard to develop ties with China and the Soviet Union. Although both communist powers still supported and supplied North Vietnam, neither was willing to disrupt its relations with the U.S. over aerial bombings. Therefore, for the first time the U.S. closed down North Vietnam’s ports, preventing Soviet supplies from entering the DRV. By the summer, the U.S. and South Vietnamese forces had successfully blunted the Easter Offensive. Linebacker I then shifted its emphasis to crippling North Vietnam’s long-term ability to wage war by continuing to destroy major logistical, transportation, and economic infrastructure targets as well as important military installations.’ Linebacker I had the greatest military effect and exerted the greatest compellent leverage of any U.S. bombing operation during the Vietnam War. It 244  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 257 --- was a major factor in compelling the biggest change in North Vietnam’s settlement terms, agreeing to separate the military and political issues. For the previous seven years, North Vietnam had demanded that any settlement affirm their military and political victory. But in October 1972, the DRV proposed a settlement which only dealt with the military situation, dropping its insistence that the existing South Vietnamese government be removed from power.® This major concession directly led to the treaty in January 1973. Although Linebacker II has received more attention from the use o f B-52s against Hanoi, it actually achieved considerably less than Linebacker I. After the DRV concession in October 1972, North Vietnam and the United States agreed in principle to a treaty. However, the South Vietnam