yzes how to utilize military force as a bargaining/coercing tool. This approach is more abstract and does not specifically address targeting. However, the concepts they posit have not been lost on those who formulate strategic bombing operations. Indeed, the bargaining principles have ^  Robert Pape’s work falls somewhere in between the two. His theories and conclusions lean strongly toward air power theory as he recommends a specific course of action with strategic bombing. However, the root of his work lies in the bargaining literature. 85  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 98 --- influenced the conduct of bombing campaigns. Nevertheless, the actual operations manifest themselves according to Mitchell’s concept of striking the economic infrastructure or Douhet’s concept of destroying cities. So one may find a strategic bombing campaign striking economic targets according to a Mitchellian concept and influenced by Schelling’s bargaining ideas. Air Power Theorists The air power theorists focused on developing the best method o f applying strategic bombing. A major part of this task was to determine which targets, when destroyed, would lead to the quickest termination o f the conflict. The determinations were based on their assessments o f a targeted state’s critical necessities during a conflict. Essentially, they conjectured as to what a state needs to sustain military power and what is most vulnerable to aerial bombing. Douhet and Trenchard believed bombing could devastate cities. This would destroy important industries and economic centers, and demoralize the civilian population. Subsequently, they advocated massive attacks on urban areas. Trenchard and Douhet’s strategy could be classified as the pulverization strategy. They wanted to pulverize cities to force opposing states to succumb as their ability and will to wage war collapsed. Therefore, they believed cities, and especially the civilian morale, were the most important and vulnerable targets. On t