believe that the shock strategy holds the most promise for the widest range o f situations because it most affects the leadership. The shock strategy has proven successful in compelling a behavior change after the 1986 bombing of Libya; accepting a cease-fire treaty. Linebacker II and the Iraqi missile attacks of 1988; and Italy’s surrender in 1943. Compellent operations which incorporate features o f the shock strategy have also had some 468  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 481 --- effect, such as the German bombing o f Britain in World War I and the Israeli deep- strike operation o f 1970. Therefore, when the compelling state’s objectives are not tied to territorial control (and thus the military denial is probably not appropriate), the compeller should turn to the shock strategy. The Shock Strategy Like the pulverization and punishment strategies, shock strategy relies on inflicting pain and demonstrating the compeller’s military capability (and superiority) more than denying military capability o f the opposing state. However, the shock strategy attempts to exert sufficient compellent leverage over a shorter period of time, and usually striking fewer targets than the other two. The shock strategy exerts compellent leverage mostly from its immediate outcome, but it does include the implicit threat of future bombings. Besides the immediate stunning effect, a demonstrated ability to continue or escalate exerts the most compellent leverage and motivation to settle quickly. But it can be separated from the 469  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 482 --- punishment strategy by virtue o f the punishment strategy’s more gradual escalation and signaling." It is important to remember the damage from the shock strategy usually is not that extensive; it does not destroy every city in a state, nor is it enough to actually preclude a state from carrying out a behavior. For example, a shock strategy may target fielded military forces or infrastructure directly