t intervention as a logical reaction to an Israeli provocation and was not seriously alarmed as long as the Soviets confined themselves to urban areas.® '* At the same time, Israel was becoming more dependent on the U.S. for superpower protection and deterrence against Soviet Union, thereby becoming more susceptible to pressure from the U .S.® ®  This crack in the relation between Israel and the U.S. would widen as the war progressed as would Israel’s susceptibility to pressure. The Final Phase - May to August 1970 The final phase featured the most intense fighting of the entire war. Both sides threw enormous amounts of men and equipment into the fray in an effort to reach their respective objectives. Eventually, both sides got some of what they wanted, but at heavy cost. During this phase, the aerial conflict was limited to an area approximately 40 km on either side o f the Canal as the Israelis fought the Soviets/Egyptians for air superiority. In May, the Soviets took the initiative, with help from the Egyptians, by attempting to move SAMs to within 30 km of the Suez Canal.*‘  Their primary objective was to achieve military parity along the Suez Canal by challenging Israel’s air superiority. Both the Soviets and the Egyptians believed that successful * ' The Egyptians mainly supplied grunt labor for the construction of the SAM barrier as Soviets technicians manned the batteries with the more advanced SAM- 38. However, there were many Egyptian pilots flying MIGs as well as Egyptian personnel manning older SAM-2s. 145  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 158 --- diplomacy required strengthening Egypt’s military position to provide some leverage in negotiations.®® The new Egyptian/Soviet offensive began with heavy artillery strikes and increasingly daring commando raids. In May, Israel suffered the highest losses of any single month during the conflict.®® Meanwhile, Egyptian soldiers and workers hastened their construction o f the physical infrastructure for SA