also plays a role for a population can become accustomed to frequent heavy bombings. Indeed, extremely heavy bombing is often not significantly better in affecting morale then less severe bombing as people become desensitized and apathetic. Infrequent heavy bombings actually seems to have a greater impact on the people. The rise o f nationalism also contributes to civilian fortitude. Nationalism tightens the bonds within a population, thereby increasing the resolve and strengthening morale. Likewise, the shared misery of being bombed tends to bring people closer together, limiting the efficacy o f punishment strategies. Regardless, massive, prolonged applications o f strategic bombing has demonstrated only limited ability to seriously affect the morale and will to resist of bombed populations. See Martin Fracker, Maj. (USAF), "Psychological Effects o f Aerial Bombardment," Airpower Journal 6, no. 3 (Fall 1992): 56-68; and Irving Janis, Air War and Emotional Stress (New York: McGraw-Hill Book Company, Inc., 1951; reprint, Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1976), 67-179. 94  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 107 --- being too generalized. Therefore, the pulverization strategy has not met with expected success in either negating the will or ability to resist. Actually, the morality o f indiscriminate attacks (the pulverization strategy is highly indiscriminate) has been seriously questioned and they are now prohibited by the 1977 Protocol I to the Geneva Conventions.^ Moreover, the world’s major air power, the United States, has moved away from this strategy. This will probably result in fewer applications o f the pulverization strategy, lessening its value in compellent operations. Punishment The punishment strategy based on bargaining has also had mixed results. Some targeted states have withstood heavy bombardment and punishment, while others have proved susceptible to punishment. While conceptually sound on paper, there are substantial difficulties in successf