an objectives for the zeppelin raids were multifold. First, the German war plarmers hoped to achieve some measure of retribution for the Allied blockade and to show civilians that Germany was doing something. Secondly, they hoped the material damage on industrial targets, in conjunction with the diversion o f British resources for defense, would be sufficient to affect the ground war. Finally, the Germans hoped the bombing would weaken the will of the British people to continue the war.’ Increasingly effective defenses, which resulted in mounting zeppelin losses, led Germany to turn to airplanes by 1916. The airplane bombings were designed to work jointly with the unrestricted submarine warfare in 24  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 37 --- order to make the British people feel the cost o f war and hopefully coerce them into quitting the war.” Because the bombing was highly inaccurate and too limited to significantly damage Britain’s industry, the material results of the zeppelin and bomber raids were slim. Instead, the psychological affect on the British population vastly outweighed the physical damage.” The bomber attacks in 1917 and 1918 caused approximately 300,000 Londoners to flee their homes.” Morale suffered and the absentee rate among the civilian workers increased, causing some disruption to the British economy.” This dramatic impact may have been why so many early theorists stressed the morale attacks. While Britain did not drop out o f the war, the government was forced to deal with a scared population who demanded greater protection and revenge attacks on Germany.” The meager German campaign simply lacked the punch to maintain sufficient pressure on London and to effect other population centers. As with the German campaigns, the Allied strategic bombing efforts caused little material damage. The German war economy was not disrupted by the bombing and the German civilian morale was not seriously weakened. The French, who began the Allied strateg