t cease its offensives on Iraq. In August, Iraq declared an "exclusion zone" around Kharg Island and warned foreign shipping to stay away.*’ However, Iraq did little to actually carry out its threats, launching only 16 attacks during all o f 1983.** j Interestingly, Iraq’s escalation of the air and sea war coincided with a marked qualitative increase in its air force and continuing decrease in Iran’s air force. By 1984, Iraq had purchased and brought to operational status more French (and lesser quality Soviet) aircraft and munitions, including Super Etendards, F-1 Mirages, and Exocet anti-ship missiles. This provided Iraq with the capability to carry out a much more effective aerial interdiction campaign over a wider area in the Persian Gulf. Furthermore, Iraq’s SCUD surface-to-surface missiles stockpiles increased to allow more attacks on Iranian cities. Meanwhile, the Iranian Air Force was only able to fly very limited sorties, and those for only a short period o f time, due to a lack of spare parts. The few replacements purchased, Chinese copies of obsolete Soviet aircraft, were o f decidedly inferior stock. Iraq had won the battle for air superiority by simply acquiring more spare parts and planes than Iran. '' The Tanker War is a name bestowed by analysts and authors. Although tankers were the most valuable targets, neither side confined itself to just tankers. During the war approximately 60 percent of the ships hit were tankers, see Martin Navias, "Lessons from Iraq’s Anti-Shipping Campaign," Jane’s Intelligence Review 4 (November 1992): 508. 383  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 396 --- Iraq waited until 1984 to execute a more coherent compellent operation. In late February, Iraq increased its attacks on tankers using Kharg Island. In March, Iraq began to use their Super Etendard aircraft armed with Exocet guided missiles against shipping. During this year Iraq would attack approximately 53 ships.®" But this number o f attacks was simply too few to