singly heavy air defenses along the Trail to facilitate attacks on the first three target sets.'*” Evaluating Commando Hunt, like all protracted interdiction campaigns, is difficult. Undoubtedly, Commando Hunt inflicted a large amount of damage and increased the resource expenditure needed to maintain the same net flow of supplies and men down the Ho Chi Minh Trail. U.S. estimates o f Commando Hunt’s effectiveness range from destroying sixty-four to eighty-eight percent of supplies North Vietnam sent down the Ho Chi Minh Trail depending on the particular period of time.'*' In other words, at its most effective point. Commando Hunt destroyed 54,000 tons out of 61,000 tons of supplies North Vietnam shipped south. North 307  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 320 --- Vietnam typically had to send 5 or 6 tons to ensure 1  ton made it to South Vietnam.'®’’ ’ Yet, Commando Hunt faced numerous environmental difficulties which limited its ability to impede seriously the southward flow of supplies and men. The most obvious was the dense jungle that hid NVA trucks from airplanes. But also of importance was that the U.S. was never able to find and hit effectively targets on a widespread basis at night. Therefore, the NVA could always move supplies by night.'®® Moreover, flight operations of separate day and night forces dictated that dawn and dusk hours were often clear of American planes.'®" Regardless of the number of trucks destroyed, the true measure of interdiction is whether the enemy has to alter its operations significantly. Without access to North Vietnamese records, it is hard to determine if Commando Hunt forced the NVA to change their plans or decrease involuntarily the intensity o f their fighting.'®® However, it was unlikely that Commando Hunt significantly disrupted logistical operations for an extended period.'®® Consequently, it apparently did ’ ’  These are U.S. intelligence numbers, which of course may vary considerably from reality. Generating the ba