eased the pressure on South Vietnam, which would have helped the situation. At best. Rolling Thunder could have forced a modification o f strategy, not objective.” Moreover, even if North Vietnam could have been compelled to drastically curtail its involvement in South Vietnam, the NLF/VC remained potent. ° An obvious problem with a massive aerial attack would have been domestic and international considerations. Johnson desperately wanted to avoid having Vietnam drawing attention away from his Great Society program. A quiek escalation would have draw considerable attention. There was of course the threat of Soviet or Chinese intervention. Therefore, such a use o f air power by the U.S. could well have been politically unacceptable. 238  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 251 --- In 1965, North Vietnam did not exercise full control over the NLF/VC. This insurgency could have continued the conflict, albeit at a reduced pace, even without Hanoi’s support. Rolling Thunder could not have ended the fighting, but merely lessened its intensity. Failure to Create a Suitable Military Option There is no one single explanation for Rolling Thunder’s failure to compel North Vietnam. Undoubtedly, the Communists’  strong determination severely complicated the compellent effort. While the U.S. wanted a negotiated settlement, its demands were tantamount to surrender to the most important leaders in North Vietnam’s government. North Vietnam was fighting a total war, the U.S. was not. Johnson did not want to jeopardize his Great Society program with the war in Vietnam. Although domestic criticism in the U.S. was vocal, prior to the Tet Offensive the majority of Americans still supported the war.^*'* Yet, Johnson never rallied America behind the war. Fears o f Chinese or Soviet hostile reactions also tempered U.S. actions. Therefore, Johnson wanted to keep the war as limited as possible. Yet, the failure to develop a suitable military strategy also played a major role in why Roll