ct of a state, objectives (either military or political) could be achieved. The differences in their respective arguments stem from what each thinks is most important to a state during a conflict, and what strategic bombing can affect with the greatest efficacy. That is absolutely vital in developing a successful bombing campaign; striking that which is most important and vulnerable in the targeted state. Unfortunately, this leads to the simplistic assertion that the best way to use strategic bombing is to hit the best targets. This statement is not terribly enlightening. Consequently, the problem is to predict what is most important and vulnerable. The current literature is not adequate in developing theory to identify these features over a wide range of scenarios. I hope to shed light on what is most important and vulnerable after examining a number o f historical cases of strategic bombing. Yet, what I am really interested in is examining how specific military strategies affect the course of compellence. More specifically, I want to determine what is (are) the most appropriate strategy(ies) to achieve compellence. And just as important, when to use certain strategies, when not to, and when air power simply is unsuited for a compellent operation. Although I will focus on the military aspect o f the conflicts, battles do not exist within a vacuum. It would be most beneficial to incorporate aspects of the bargaining inquiry to provide a more complete explanation of compellence. The 103  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 116 --- bargaining factors (interests and resolve as well as other pertinent issues such as decision-making dynamics) will help to create a consistent framework for illuminating the political situation in each of the conflicts I will use as case studies. Hopefully, these factors will provide significant assistance in determining what is most important and vulnerable. The Mechanics To explore this subject I will rely on historical examples o f