y is at issue, territorial control, however, is not always the compeller’s objectives or pertinent to all compellent issues. Air power is often called upon to compel surrender or to modify a behavior not linked to territorial acquisition. Attempts to cower states with widespread bombings, i.e. the pulverization and punishment strategies, have been ineffective in these cases. Ironically, I think the shock strategy is often the most effective choice due to its effect on the opposing state’s leadership. Nevertheless, the shock strategy’s effectiveness is difficult to predict, primarily because it is heavily dependent on the situation in the targeted state. And fully understanding the situation in another state is always problematie. Moreover, strategic bombing cannot generate as much compellent leverage with the shock strategy. It should be used as a supplement in conjunction with other forms of pressure rather than the primary means to extract large concessions. This dissertation’s test of compellence theory is limited because it emphasized cases with less use of threats and more shooting than described in the traditional definition o f compellence. These cases also had less o f the overt signalling and bargaining. Nevertheless, this dissertation partially challenges the effectiveness of inflicting pain to achieve compellence. It also demonstrates two points regarding compellence in general; a successful operation must pressure the opposing leaders, and similar military and political objectives facilitates success. 424  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 437 --- Military Option Strategic bombing does not operate in a vacuum. Air power frequently has been used as a means o f compellence, but it is generally only one part o f a larger strategy. Furthermore, there are many other factors which can influence the course o f a conflict and whether compellence will be successful. Alexander George, et al., developed a set of factors that helps indicate when coercive dip