high morale advantage granted by revolutionary fervor. On the other side, the Iraqi Army was honing its expertise and integrating new weapons. The balance on the ground was shifting to Iraq.'" In 1986, the radicals in the Iranian government gained enough influence due to the Al F aw victory to argue successfully for Iran to intensify the Tanker War. In 1986, the number of Iranian attacks on Gulf shipping, mostly Saudi Arabian and Kuwaiti, more than doubled from 1985 to approximately 45."’ Nevertheless, the fear o f an Iranian victory overcame the Gulf States’  reluctance to open their checkbooks and allowed Iraq to survive. Yet, Hussein’s legitimacy still rested on not losing the conflict. The decline in oil prices hurt Iraq, the financial situation was not improving, and Iraq’s debt was growing by the billions. He needed the war to end."® In August 1986 Hussein offered another peace plan. It called for a mutual withdrawal from each other’s territory, exchange of prisoners, signing a peace treaty, recognition and respect for each other’s choice of government, and working 391  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 404 --- together to promote stability in the region. Khomeini denounced the proposal and offered his terms for settlement; the international community brand Iraq as the aggressor, Iraq pay Iran reparations of $309 billion, and Hussein removed from power. Obviously, no settlement was reached, but this illuminated the differences in each sides’ objectives. Under heavy pressure, Hussein merely wanted to end the war while retaining the pre-war status quo."'* The radicals, seeking the decisive victory, still held the upper hand in Tehran. With no ceasefire and the debacles at the Al Faw Peninsula and at Mehran (another battle) in July, Hussein was forced to increase the pressure on Iran the only way Iraq could, through the air. In August 1986, the Iraqi Air Force attacked the distant oil export facilities Iran had constructed in southern Persian Gulf, ostens