cceeded in achieving the United States’  political objectives. 313  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 326 --- This case fits Alexander George, et al.’s, definition o f coercive diplomacy.“ They downplayed the military option as a factor that could influence success in the second edition of The Limits of Coercive Diplomacy. Nonetheless, it is interesting to discover that the particular military strategy probably was a factor even with such limited use o f military force. The U.S. clearly held military superiority over Libya. Yet this advantage was not sufficient to assure compellence success. The U.S. had to create a strategy that would exert the most pressure. Unable to undertake a massive aerial campaign due to political reasons to eliminate Libya’s ability to support terrorism or strike more classic punishment targets, such as the economic infrastructure, the U.S. planes bombed a number o f terrorist support facilities and Qaddafi’s headquarters. Instead of inflicting punishment on the state, the U.S. aimed its punishment directly at Qaddafi. And this effort at psychological warfare apparently worked. Bombing oil facilities or other military bases may also have had an affect on Qaddafi, but probably not nearly as much as the bombings falling on his headquarters did. Seeds of the Conflict On 1  September 1969, the then Captain Muammar Qaddafi led a successful military coup against King Idris of Libya. He soon established dictatorial rule over “  In fact, it is one of the case studies in the second edition of The Limits o f Coercive Diplomacy. However, the author of this chapter, Tim Zimmermann, is more skeptical of the bombing’s effects than 1 . 314  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 327 --- Libya. The U. S. government was not overly concerned at the ascension of the anti-communist Qaddafi (although he later turned to the Soviets for arms and support). Indeed, during the first few years of Qaddafi’s rule Libyan-American relations were unremarkable.^