y bases (trying to steal a page from the Israel during the 1967 War), that 361  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 374 --- accomplished little.®' While the invasion force’s size of five divisions was impressive, its operational objectives were not. Focusing on the southern region, Iraq wanted to secure control of the Shatt al-Arab by seizing the Iranian territory immediately to the east.® ®  The Iraqis believed that the weakened Iranian Army would collapse under their surprise armored attacks. Iraq expected the Arab populations in southern Iran to rebel against Khomeini. This would make it even more difficult for Iran to maintain control over the Shatt and further weaken the Khomeini government.®® Although the Iraqi forces met only limited resistance, their progress was slow. The Iraqis failed to seize two important cities, Khorramshahr and Abadan, apparently averring the heavy casualties typical of urban warfare. On 28 September, Hussein announced that Iraq’s territorial objectives had been achieved and offered ceasefire terms which included Iran’s recognition of Iraq’s territorial rights, cessation of Iranian interference in Iraq’s internal affairs, a mutual pledge to adhere to good neighborly relations, and the return of three islands in the Persian Gulf, seized by Iran in 1971, to their previous Arab owners.®'* But Iran was not intimidated by Iraq and refused to accept the ceasefire. Iraq did achieve its limited military objectives. The problem was that accomplishing these objectives did not end the war. The limited military arms failed to deliver a knock-out blow to the weakened Iranian armed forces. Given the opportunity to regroup and rally against the foreign invaders, the Iranian military soon acquitted itself better. The expected domestic rebellion never took place and 362  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 375 --- rather than collapse under pressure, the Iranian government withstood the initial onslaught buoyed by an Iranian population outr