t destroy every city in a state, nor is it enough to actually preclude a state from carrying out a behavior. For example, a shock strategy may target fielded military forces or infrastructure directly related to the war effort. A brief bombing campaign may demonstrate how vulnerable the targeted state is to attack and yield compellent leverage. But unlike the military denial, it does not attempt to degrade seriously military capability. Instead, the shock strategy’s success must rely on the persuasive power o f being bombed. The success o f the shock strategy hinges on often ambiguous affects and results. This makes predicting the outcome of this type o f operation difficult and relying on it risky as well. Success is by no means certain, even if the execution is satisfactory and the tactical military objectives were met (in other words, the bombs hit their intended targets). Furthermore, these operations often lead to less than ° In faet, the divisions between all the strategies are not as clearly delineated as one would suppose. Instead, the strategies should be viewed as points on a continuum without distinct separating lines. A bombing campaign may incorporate concepts from all the strategies. The shock strategy especially lies close to the punishment strategy. Israel’s deep-strike phase in early 1970 during the War of Attrition is an example. It was somewhat less than a punishment strategy because it was supposed to achieve compellence primarily from the psychological jolt of being bombed, not from the threat of future damage. Yet it was more prolonged than a typical shock strategy. Moreover, it was an attempt to decrease Egypt’s military capability through bombings o f needed logistical support facilities. Thus, this shock strategy operation included elements o f the military denial strategy. 470  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 483 --- equivocal measures o f success and uncertainty over the degree to which strategic bombing played in the success. Ot