entered on American oil companies in Libya and the need for Libyan oil to keep refineries in the American Northeast busy. Initially, the United States attempted conciliation rather than confrontation with Qaddafi’s regime. Qaddafi, however, refused to accept peaceful, normal relations. By the mid-1970s, the U.S. government adopted a policy o f neglect tinged with low-key opposition as terrorists Qaddafi supported began to target Western interests, including Western European and American citizens. This policy of restraint coupled with mild sanctions continued through the Carter administration with little apparent affect. Libyan supported terrorism and other disruptive acts escalated." The election of Ronald Reagan in 1980 marked a major shift in the U.S. policy toward Libya. Reagan won the presidency with a platform o f increasing United States strength at home and abroad. He successfully played upon the perception that America was growing weaker under President Jimmy Carter. Along with the Soviet Union, the new administration made terrorism a high priority. Yet, once in office, Reagan ran into many of the same problems that plagued his predecessor. Bedeviled with Middle Eastern terrorism, like Carter, he was stymied 320  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 333 --- by a lack of effective counterm easures.N evertheless, pressure increased to do something that might be effective. Just as importantly, whatever was done would visibly demonstrate that the government was doing something. Libya provided a perfect target. Not only was Libya a major supporter and user o f terrorism, but the Reagan administration’s "hawks" perceived Libya to be a Soviet proxy state. Hitting Libya would also strike a blow to Soviet prestige. Furthermore, Libya’s weak military forces and political isolation made it a relatively easy target."® However, even before the new administration settled into office a policy debate over Libya erupted. The two basic positions that emerged can be class