the Middle East to carry out their strategy of global expansion and export of revolutionary ideology. America generally based its Middle East policy on this assumption. However, a minority o f experts posited that Soviet policy was much more cautionary and pragmatic. They claim the Soviets were not opposed to gaining influence and power in the Middle East, but did not want to instigate a major confrontation with the United States over the Middle East. Nonetheless, at times the Soviets did have genuine interest in seeing a peace settlement. Recently, there has been growing support for the latter belief. A good summary of this debate is contained in Jerome Slater, "The Superpowers and an Arab-Israeli Political Settlement; The Cold War Years," Political Science Oiiarterlv 105, no. 4, (Winter 1990-1991): 557-577. 139  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 152 --- Soviets were deeply concerned that Egypt was close to collapse. Nasser’s trip only heightened their anxiety. Nasser apparently played on their fears and even threatened to resign and hand Egypt over to a pro-American leader.*'* Therefore, the Soviets agreed to send new SAM-3 anti-aircraft missiles, more advanced MiG- 21 s, and other related air defense equipment, all manned by Soviets to defend Egyptian airspace.*® By the time large amounts of Soviet-manned equipment arrived, Israel had already begun to curtail the deep-penetration strikes. After an errant strike near Cairo on 12 February killed some 70 civilians, the lAF focused on SAM sites away from densely populated areas. * ^  However, by the end of March, Israeli and American intelligence sources had detected the vast increase in arms flowing into Egypt and the activation o f Soviet manned SAM sites near Cairo, Alexandria and the Aswan Dam.*^ In fact, the Soviets had some 4,000 missile crewmen manning 140  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 153 --- 22 SAM sites.*® Israel was now faced with one of its worst fears, a military confrontation with a