o longer had the option to escalate with in-depth strikes. Soviet military involvement pushed this conflict into forefront of international debate. The U.S. was extremely concerned with the massive Soviet buildup in Egypt and intensified their efforts to get a ceasefire.®® This benefitted Egypt because it would probably gain more during an imposed settlement. And one of Nasser’s primary objectives was active superpower participation in the negotiations. Another consequence was increased tension between Israel and the United States. The U.S. government was not pleased with the deep strikes and its support The official Israeli government line contends the Soviets decided on direct military intervention in the fall of 1969, before the deep strike raids. This is a self- serving position to shift blame away from itself. After the 1967 War the Soviets concluded in principle not to let their prize client Egypt lose another war. During the disastrous Fall of 1969, the Soviets decided to send even more advanced air defense systems and contemplated direct military involvement. The January raids presented a very real possibility of an Egypt defeat and created the imperative needed to induce military intervention. The Soviets were aware o f the hazards and risks entailed, but the desire to prevent an Egyptian defeat overcame their fears. For further discussion see Bar-Siman-Tov, The Israeli-Eevptian War o f Attrition. 1969-197. 145-149; Mohamed Heikal, The Road to Ramadan. (New York: Ballantine Books, 1975), 78-84; and David Korn, Stalemate: The War o f Attrition and Great Power Dinlomacv in the Middle East. 1967-1970. (Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1992), 190-191. 144  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 157 --- of Israel was not unconditional. In fact, the U.S. saw the Soviet intervention as a logical reaction to an Israeli provocation and was not seriously alarmed as long as the Soviets confined themselves to urban areas.® '* At the same time, Israel was becoming more d