o modify its behavior. For example, there are no indications the Soviet Union placed any specific pressure on North ' Non-binding Congressional Caucuses did vote to cutoff funding shortly after convening in January, portending a future official cutoff. Congress eventually terminated funding for all U.S. involvement in Indochina in June 1973. 293  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 306 --- Vietnam at this time. It seems that Linebacker II convinced North Vietnam’s leaders to settle as quickly as possible. Unlike Linebacker I, only some of the compellent leverage probably came through military denial. Linebacker II inflicted some damage, but nothing North Vietnam needed immediately to continue the fighting in South Vietnam. Instead, the compellent leverage probably arose from the vulnerability of North Vietnam, the fear o f future bombings, and the shock of the bombing. Linebacker II inflicted considerably more destruction over a shorter period of time than any other campaign to Hanoi and Haiphong. It was also the most immediate demonstration of U.S. air power to North Vietnam’s leadership during the entire Vietnam conflict. Stunned by the nightly displays of effective bombing via the impressive damage from B-52s and laser-guided munitions, coupled with the realization they were powerless to stop the bombing, Hanoi apparently decided enough was enough. As characteristic o f coercive diplomacy, success was not predicated on actual damage inflicted, but from the fact Linebacker II was a clear indication o f what damage the U.S. could inflict, and might administer in the future. The counterforce damage during Linebacker II was substantial, but not overwhelming. The bombings concentrated on railyards and storage facilities. For example. Linebacker II disrupted all rail traffic with 10 miles of Hanoi, the transportation hub of North Vietnam.'®" However, the rail system was not critical to North Vietnam. Linebacker I had already severely disrupted the rail system thr