q attempted a shock strategy to exert pressure on Iran’s leaders by undermining civilian morale and support for the war. Clearly, Iraq did not have nearly enough missiles to pulverize a city. Instead, a limited operation o f the missile attacks would sow fear among the civilians. This was not quite a punishment strategy because there was no clear attempt to threaten future escalation; Iraq shot all the missiles it had. Iraq wanted to gain the maximum compellent pressure from the trauma o f the immediate attacks. Consequently, this should be considered an implementation of the shock strategy. From 29 February to 20 April, Iraq fired 189 of the modified SCUDs at six Iranian cities. The majority, 135, struck Tehran but other cities were hit too, including Qom and Isfahan by 23 and 22 missiles respectively.” ’ This was by far the most number of missiles fired in such a short period. Iran countered with some 50-80 SCUDs fired mostly at Baghdad.”®  Many of these SCUDs missed Baghdad and the operation had no apparent effect on Iraq. Iraq unilaterally ended the War o f the Cities on 21 April, possibly because of the victory at the Al Faw and the U.S.-Iran naval engagement (see below). Probably, though, the primary reason for the cessation was that Iraq simply ran low on the missiles needed to reach Tehran.” ' " This missile was called the AI-Husayn. Built with foreign assistance, it doubled the range o f the SCUD-Bs in Iraq’s inventory. The range increase probably came from adding fuel and reducing the size of the warhead. The Al- Husayn is estimated to only carry approximately 500 pounds of explosives. 403  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 416 --- Although other bombing campaigns have inflicted vastly more damage and casualties with less effect on civilian populations, these missile attacks had a major impact on Tehran’s civilian population. Indeed, the missiles’ damage was not that extensive, but the psychological effect on a demoralized, war-weary population was