srael hoped the demonstration of its superiority in the form of bombings would convince the Egyptians o f the futility o f continuing the war. Finally, Israel wanted to weaken Egypt’s ability to support battlefield operations. Although primarily wanting to exploit a perceived leadership vulnerability, Israel decided to bomb only military targets. This severely limited the available strategies as the economic infrastructure or traditional punishment strategies were not acceptable. The best description o f Israel’s strategy would be a mixture o f the shock and punishment strategy with elements o f the military denial. A weak connection between objectives and strategy and an failure to exert pressure on Nasser proved to be Israel’s undoing. Attacks on Egypt’s rear military installations to affect its ability to wage war was good in theory, but the number of bombing raids were few and the chosen targets apparently were not always critical to the Egyptian army. Thus, the deep strike campaign failed to achieve its military objectives. The connection was even weaker in the execution of the primary objective o f removing Nasser. Somehow, bombing a handful o f military installations near urban areas was supposed to force Nasser from power. The Egyptian people (and military) would see Israel’s superiority and question their leadership. Admittedly, sometimes a few raids can have a dramatic effect on an entire nation, such as the Iraqi SCUD missile attacks during the Persian Gulf War. Yet there is a poor historical record for this type of psychological warfare with air power. Infrequent, light raids that present little danger to the population actually tend to reduce the impact o f the bombing as their fear subsidies.'®'* Even worse, 160  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 173 --- Nasser was a popular, charismatic leader, the deep strikes did not hit any targets which would directly or indirectly affect civilians, and the campaign was prosecuted without vigor or tenacity