he early air power theorists generated many ideas and concepts regarding a new and radically different weapon system. Although history proved their theories to be somewhat wanting, their work provides a useful foundation for further research. After World War II, the development o f the social sciences spawned a number o f civilian intellectuals whose work focused on explaining and/or predicting coercion. Essentially, both the air power theorists and the civilian intellectuals attempted to identify the most important feature(s) influencing success or failure during conflicts. However, each group analyzed different aspects of conflict. The air power theorists focused on the conduct o f the 84  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 97 --- military operations. The civilian intellectuals concentrated on the bargaining process and its effect on political decision-making.** Most relevantly, both groups attempted to determine the optimum pressure point(s) within an opposing state. The rationale being that successful exploitation of this pressure point will yield a triumph, be it military victory or coercion. I am more interested in the military strategy side of these studies. Nonetheless, conflict is an intricate and complex interaction of military and political processes and actions. Therefore, I will incorporate parts of the bargaining approach into my analysis o f the military situation. The Strategic Bombing Strategies The theoretical development of strategic bombing strategy proceeded along two, not entirely distinct, lines. The first, air power theory generated by Mitchell, Douhet, Trenchard, Warden, and Pape, details how to use strategic bombing, including targeting recommendations. The second, produced by the civilian intellectuals such as Schelling and George, analyzes how to utilize military force as a bargaining/coercing tool. This approach is more abstract and does not specifically address targeting. However, the concepts they posit have not been lost on tho