ce opposing states to succumb as their ability and will to wage war collapsed. Therefore, they believed cities, and especially the civilian morale, were the most important and vulnerable targets. On the other hand, Mitchell urged attacks on the "vital" parts, the economic and industrial sectors, of a state. Their destruction would undermine the military 86  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 99 --- capability. Hence, Mitchell believed the economic infrastructure was the most important and vulnerable target. This should be called the economic infrastructure strategy. The two theoretical concepts (pulverization and economic infrastructure) formed the basis for many future strategic bombing applications. The most clear- cut example of how these two philosophies would differ in execution was the British and American operations in Europe during World War II. John Warden built on Mitchell’s economic infrastructure as Warden also stressed attacks on the key production and power facilities (named the organic essentials). However, Warden is more expansive than Mitchell. Warden conceptualized the state as a system, with five critical components. Warden expressly called for bombing to impact, either through direct or indirect attacks, all the strategic rings. Such widespread attacks would thoroughly degrade the ability of the state to function. Warden is also more flexible than Mitchell and readily admits that each state and conflict will provide a unique situation and one must be ready to adapt. Nonetheless, Warden contends that depriving the organic essentials/economic infrastructure is often the best targeting choice. Robert Pape investigated the most effective way to specifically use strategic bombing to achieve coercion. He believed military force can exploit one of the two vulnerabilities of a state, either military or civilian, to achieve coercion. Pape constructed three models of strategic bombing strategy, punishment, punishment with bargaining, and military de