ceeded where Rolling Thunder failed was that the Vietnam War had changed dramatically from 1965 to 1972. Many o f the conditions had changed so dramatically that these two time periods could even be considered separate conflicts. Most importantly, it was no longer a guerilla/light infantry war, but instead a conventional war fought for territory, and the U.S. demands for settlement had dropped precipitously. A faster Linebacker I with fewer controls would not have been successful in 1965. First o f all, it was foolhardy to believe Hanoi would sign a treaty forsaking its fundamental goal, unification, unless under supreme duress. Unlike 1965, the U.S. was not asking for a North Vietnamese surrender in 1972. North Vietnam’s threshold of suffering was so high, and U.S. options for attacking countervalue targets were so limited, that compellence would have had to come from military denial. But Linebacker would not have been able to achieve military denial in 1965 or 1968. Air power could achieve military denial in 1972 against an enemy fighting an offensive, heavily armed, mobile conventional war aimed at directly conquering South Vietnam. Air power could not have done so in 1965 facing a enemy relying on political warfare coupled with small military engagements between light infantry forces. A blockade closing down Haiphong and bombing the supply routes from China in the 1960s would have, at best, meant a slowdown in NVA operations. It is important to remember the NVA/VC supply needs in 1965 were exponentially less than those in 1972. Thus, while the Soviet supplies may 303  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 316 --- have declined significantly, enough would have been supplied through, and by, China to support North Vietnam’s smaller needs. Likewise, a quicker or slightly more complete destruction of North Vietnam’s industrial, POL, and transportation infrastructure in 1965 or 1968 would not have had much more affect than Rolling Thunder. North Vietnam still did