usly aware o f the coincidental civilian casualties that were bound to occur.’ Yet, both advocated attacks on cities because their destruction would severely disrupt the industrial and transportation sectors and demoralize the population. This is subtly different from later coercion strategies which bomb cities to inflict punishment because Douhet and Trenchard did not view pain as the goal of bombing. Instead, the bombing o f cities would deprive a state o f population’s support and the economic wherewithal needed to fight the war. They concluded the widespread devastation would actually be the quickest way to victory, and in the long run be less bloody than a repetition o f World War I’s trench warfare. ’ Actually they questioned the traditional non-combatant status o f civilians in a fully mobilized state during a war. The division between non-combatant and combatants was blurring due to the total economic mobilization required by intense, modern war. Consequently, the moral prohibition against attacking civilians was weakening. 33  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 46 --- Meanwhile, Mitchell stressed specific attacks on the opponent’s vital centers. The vital centers were essentially Clausewitz’s center of gravities and Mitchell saw industries as the most important vital center. With his industries destroyed, an opponent would be unable to support his army, leading to a swift conclusion to the war. These viewpoints are not altogether contradictory. Pulverizing cities strategies will inflict damage on the vital centers. And attacks on the vital centers obviously punish the targeted state. Nevertheless, these two perspectives can be seen as foundations for the disparities in the strategic bombing campaigns in subsequent conflicts, especially during World War II. Operations in the Inter-War Period During the inter-war years, air power was utilized in a number of conflicts. The four most notable were 1) British colonial control in the Middle East, 2) Japan’s