sive victory Israel hoped to aceomplish was beyond the ability of air power to achieve with these limitations. The failure to develop a usable military strategy that was tailored to attain Israel’s political goals severely weakened Israel’s ability to accomplish its objectives in the War of Attrition. Preliminaries While the War o f Attrition is generally recognized as beginning in March 1969, actually there were numerous prior shooting incidents. March 1969 simply marked the beginning o f Egypt’s concerted strategy of continuous warfare along the Suez Canal. Nonetheless, it is useful to discuss the time between the end of the Six Day War in June 1967 and the start of the War of Attrition to provide important background information. 117  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 130 --- Israel won a spectacular victory during the Six Day War. Although outnumbered and surrounded, Israel defeated three Arab states, Egypt, Jordan, and Syria, quickly and decisively. Air power played a critical role as the lAF opened the war with a pre-emptive strike that effectively destroyed the Arab air forces. With complete air superiority, Israeli ground forces were able to devastate the Arab armies.^ The Six Day War was a pivotal event in the Arab-Israeli conflict because it dramatically tilted the strategic balance toward Israel. Indeed, prior to this war, many people even questioned the viability of Israel. In winning the war, Israel firmly dispelled that question by emphatically demonstrating its military superiority over the Arabs. Moreover, Israel tripled its size by seizing the Gaza Strip, the Sinai Peninsula, the Golan Heights, and the West Bank, providing territorial buffers needed to establish a defense in depth.^ However, the loss of territory gave Egypt, Syria, and Jordan a more immediate interest for continuing their conflict with Israel. Instead of working toward annihilating Israel, Egypt was keenly interested in the more plausible objective of reclaiming something it