he Normandy breakout in August 1944. After this, the strategic bombing campaign hit its stride. The petroleum industry felt the full impact o f the bombers and suffered accordingly. Additionally, starting 47  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 60 --- in fall 1944, the AAF also began to hammer Germany’s transportation network.®’ Movement inside Germany became increasing difficult. The oil and transportation campaigns marked a return to the AWPD-1 concept. The "Deathblows" The top Western Allied leadership believed strategic bombing had potential as an independent compellent tool via delivery o f a "deathblow". This is essentially Douhet’s prediction that a society will collapse if it is struck with an aerial bombardment of sufficient ferocity. One of the lesser known uses of bombing was the deathblow against Italy in the summer of 1943. The Americans launched this campaign in July 1943, with an attack on the railroad marshalling yards in Rome. Not only was this a legitimate, and valuable, military target the Allies predicted that a bombing raid on the ancient capital would seriously affect Italian morale. Although the damage was mostly limited to the yards, the bombing o f Rome shocked the Italian people. Meanwhile, King Victor Emmanuel was becoming increasingly alarmed at Italy’s situation. The Allies had invaded Sicily and Hitler had rebuffed Mussolini’s requests for additional help. Emmanuel visited the yards just after the bombing and quickly decided that action was necessary. Five days later, Emmanuel was instrumental in deposing Mussolini.®® When the new Italian government did not immediately surrender, the British decided to apply pressure by bombing other cities. A majority o f the Italian people no longer supported the war and they quickly expressed their discontent. 48  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 61 --- This, combined with the impending Allied invasion, resulted in the official Italian surrender on 8 September 1943.® '* Sir Arthur Harr