tary planning envisioned a bombing campaign disrupting North Vietnam’s ability to support the Viet Cong. The U.S. military wanted to execute a denial strategy focused on airfields, bridges, railroad yards, supply depots, petroleum facilities, the industrial base, and ports.** The Joint Chiefs of Staff supported immediate execution of this plan, which specified 94 targets.*"* This conformed to the classic notion of a strategic bombing campaign, reminiscent of World War II, rather than one specifically tailored to address the infiltration problem. However, Johnson decided to defer further U.S. overt action until after the Presidential elections in November 1964. 181  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 194 --- After winning the election, Johnson authorized a National Security Council working group to outline options to maintain the viability of South Vietnam. To achieve this, the group worked with two main objectives, end North Vietnamese involvement in the fighting in the south and to signal U.S. resolve and commitment.** The resultant three options, named A, B, and C, all included bombing attacks on North Vietnam. Major bombing was an important part o f the two preferred options, B and C .* ^  This marked another crucial turning point in the Vietnam conflict, the U.S. government had decided that bombing North Vietnam was necessary. Option A called for a continuation of America’s current strategy of providing substantial assistance to South Vietnam and only bombing North Vietnam in reprisal for major Viet Cong attacks. Option B specified heavy aerial attacks on North Vietnam until the North negotiated a favorable settlement, i.e., agreed to end support o f the Viet Cong. Option C was the compromise. The U.S. would start a gradually increasingly air attack on North Vietnam while signaling it was willing to negotiate. The U.S. government hoped the message to Hanoi would be clear, negotiate or suffer damage of increasing value.*® These early discussions showed the