ery far before collapsing and thus leaders may believe their civilian population can endure just a little more. Anyway, leaders, in conjunction with security and military forces, often can squelch any significant civilian discontent. On the other hand, a more benign leader, i.e. Churchill, can successfully rally the people in times of crisis to endure heavy punishment.'* The punishment strategy has only seen limited use, restricting the degree of conclusions one can draw. One prominent example was Rolling Thunder, and even that was not wholly a punishment strategy as a good deal of the bombing was devoted to interdiction. Yet, Rolling Thunder was a dismal failure because it generated no discernible compellent leverage. The North Vietnamese leadership did not feel the cost of losing their modern economic infrastructure was more than the prize of winning the war. The punishment strategy failed. But the destruction of the economic infrastructure would have exerted little compellent pressure regardless '*  The psychological affects o f bombing on civilians is poorly understood. In some cases it bolsters morale, in others in causes great apprehension. There is little conclusive analysis as to the mechanisms at work. See Maj. Martin Fracker, USAF, "Psychological Effects of Aerial Bombardment," Airoower Journal 6, no. 3 (Fall 1992); 57-67. 434  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 447 --- of the bombing’s pace. Thus, the gradual escalation o f the punishment strategy cannot be faulted in this case, only the belief that delivering that type o f pain could achieve success. The case of Iraq’s aerial campaign against Iran’s oil export capability during the Iran-Iraq War more clearly highlights some of the deficiencies o f the punishment strategy. The Iraqi operation adhered to many o f the theoretical precepts of the punishment strategy. For example, instead of attempting complete interdiction immediately, Iraq opted for some interdiction to inflict some pain, with the th