loit the vulnerability o f the Egyptian state to aerial bombardment, it was unable to exploit any one part of the state sufficiently to exert enough compellent leverage to achieve its objectives. Air power was most successful in 1969 when Israel defeated Egypt’s initial strategy by bombing Egypt’s military forces. Continued aerial attacks on its fielded military units put considerable pressure on Egypt and Nasser. Yet, the inability to defeat Egypt’s military strategy of attrition or to increase the costs past Nasser’s tolerance threshold led to the bombing’s failure to win a decisive victory for Israel. An attempt to exceed Nasser’s threshold, via the deep strike operation, failed due to the Soviet intervention. However, this operation alarmed Nasser, indicating that Israel was striking a nerve. The battle for air supremacy over the Suez Canal in the last O f course, as the balance was shifted so far toward Israel after the 1967 war, it would have swung partially back toward Egypt regardless of whether the War of Attrition was fought. 116  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 129 --- stage of the war featured more attacks on Egypt’s fielded military forces. Again able to exert some compellent leverage on Egypt, this use of aerial bombing was more effective in terms of compellenee as the political and military situation had changed and both Israel and Egypt’s objectives diminished. This case demonstrates that even a state with clear military superiority still needs a usable military strategy. After the 1967 Six Day War, Israel held a enormous qualitative military edge over the Arab state. Nevertheless, Israel faced a variety of domestie and international political constraints which precluded a full application o f air power (and military power in general). The decisive victory Israel hoped to aceomplish was beyond the ability of air power to achieve with these limitations. The failure to develop a usable military strategy that was tailored to attain Israel’s po