o force the leadership to rationally choose to concede is often a better choice. To do so, devastating the organic essentials is the best way to exert compellent leverage because it would. I) lead to the collapse o f system, 2) make it physically impossible to maintain a certain policy or to fight a war, and 3) create internal political or economic repercussions that are too costly to bear.'®® Warden believed the other two rings should also be bombed due to their system wide repercussions, but each was of less importance due to difficulty in affecting them via air power. The infrastructure ring (basically the transportation network) tends to be difficult to fully disable because most networks are highly redundant and have many targets with little value individually. Moral and legal restrictions preclude direct attacks on the enemy’s population. Although indirect pressure has been shown to affect a population’s morale that has low interest in the 71  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 84 --- outcome of the conflict, Warden believed the results o f bombing affecting morale have not been encouraging and are not predictable.'®’* Although Warden’s ideas clearly marked a decisive shift back to innovative airpower thinking, during the late 1980s his views gained only mild acceptance by the Air Force’s leadership.'®® Amazingly, the Air Force General in command of all U.S. airplanes in the Gulf War, Lt. Gen. Charles Horner, apparently had never read Warden’s book and possessed a disdain for what little he knew about Warden’s theories.'®^ Horner was a product of the TAC mentality which emphasized attacks on the enemy’s fielded military forces in support o f Army operations. Consequently, Horner initially rejected a plan Warden quickly formulated in early August 1990 mainly due to its lack o f emphasis on attacking Iraqi ground forces in Kuwait.'""' Nevertheless, he did ask for Warden’s deputies to stay in Saudi Arabia to develop a strategic plan; they were the only one