evelop a bombing strategy that will exploit the leadership vulnerability while relying on more ambiguous results than a major military victory (or defeat). The method of exploitation can vary significantly depending on the targeted state, the compellent objectives, and the geo-political environment. But it all boils down to attacking aspect(s) o f the state the leaders believe is (are) vital or whose destruction exerts substantial pressure on the leaders. Sometimes attacks aimed directly at the leadership such as the 1986 U.S. bombing o f Libya prove 467  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 480 --- effective. Other times, attacks on the civilian population can have a powerful indirect effect on the leaders, such as during the German bombing of Britain in World War I. There is also a psychological factor of simply being bombed heavily that cannot be discounted, especially if the state being bombed has no means of retaliation and little defensive capability. These cases o f compellence rarely attempt to inflict massive amounts of destruction on an opponent; this is usually confined to the military denial approach or pulverization strategy found in intense conflict. Compelling states instead use military force in measured and discreet amounts. Strategic bombing is used to convey the compeller’s willingness to use military fbree and to demonstrate military prowess. A compeller wants to achieve a behavior modification, not unconditional surrender and complete conquest. Hence, the shock o f strategic bombing is important in exploiting the leadership vulnerability. The problem with all these other cases is the dramatic variance. Subsequently, there is no one strategy that can be applied in all situations. None of the other theorists deal with this adequately. However, I believe that the shock strategy holds the most promise for the widest range o f situations because it most affects the leadership. The shock strategy has proven successful in compelling a behavior cha