the Marines to provide stability and the MNF returned to Lebanon on 29 September with the objective of aiding the Lebanese government to re-establish its sovereignty. This entailed rebuilding the weak Lebanese Army to fight the powerful religious militias and to obtain the withdrawal of the Israeli and Syrian forces. The Marines and the other MNF units would act as a buffer in Beirut to reduce the fighting and safeguard the area until the Lebanese Army could take control.^* 494  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 507 --- However, the MNF was too weak to control Beirut. The Marines’  position at the exposed airport was especially vulnerable and precarious. The U.S.’ status in Lebanon was tenable as long as the perception of neutrality was maintained. A U.S. brokered deal in May 1983 that called for the orderly withdrawal o f Israeli forces fell through due to Syria’s intrasigence. Most importantly, the still-born agreement angered Syria enough to let their allies, especially the Druze militia, loose against the U.S. Marines.^’ The Islamic militias needed little encouragement as the Marines were already losing their measure of impartiality by their assistance o f the predominately Christian-led Lebanese Army. In late summer, the Marines came under increasingly heavy fire from the battling militias, especially the Druze. The Israelis also retreated abruptly from the Beirut area, leaving the Marines even more vulnerable as the fighting between the Lebanese Army and the Islamic and Druze forces escalated. On 19 September, the U.S. made the fateful action o f supporting embattled Lebanese Army units with naval gunfire. Any hope o f maintaining impartiality was lost with this attack on Druze forces. A little over a month later, on 23 October 1983, an Islamic radical drove a suicide truck bomb into the Marine headquarters in Lebanon, killing 239 Americans.^® Some in the U.S. government advocated immediate reprisal against the Syria for their support o f the groups th