at would have weakened Egypt’s military would have had a significant effect on Nasser’s willingness to prosecute the war. Without a functioning army, Nasser could not achieve his ultimate goal, regaining the Sinai. Israel probably could have increased the cost of fighting the war beyond Nasser’s threshold by inflicting extensive damage on Egypt’s military capability. Nasser also highly valued the well-being of his people and protecting Egypt’s weakening economic situation. A bomb-shattered economy might have convinced Nasser to give up this conflict. But regardless of the particulars, any strategy which increased the pressure on Nasser and Egypt but did not yield a swift victory (measured in days) would probably have led to a Soviets intervention or an internationally imposed ceasefire which may not have reflected Israel’s interests. This was the continuing paradox with Israel’s military operations; the more they won in the battlefield, the farther they were from a settlement. Nasser refused to end the war with Egypt in an inferior strategic position unless faced with another unmitigated disaster. This meant Israel was unable to convert anything less than a decisive military victory to decisive political triumph. But the Soviets were determined not to allow another Israeli decisive victory. Ironically, winning on the battlefield did not necessarily help Israel. In the final phase of the war, Israel again adopted a military denial strategy to maintain air control over the Canal area. After the lAF inflicting severe punishment on the Egyptian and Soviet forces, Nasser agreed to a ceasefire. 162  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 175 --- Compellence by attacking capability seemed to have worked. But Nasser’s threshold had dropped significantly once he partially achieved his objectives of increasing superpower involvement and bolstering his military position vis-a-vis Israel. Israeli air power could still deny Egypt the ability to seize territory, Nasser’s ultim