s personal power. While he probably wanted to avoid a war, Hussein wanted to keep any fighting as short as possible, being optimistic that the Iraqi Army’s defenses could exact heavy casualties and force the weak-willed Coalition to compromise. But even if he lost, Hussein believed he could save most of his Army and become a hero in the Arab community and Third World for confronting the U.S.” After Iraqi quickly seized the small state, the United States put together a multi-national coalition whose missions were to protect Saudi Arabia and then retake Kuwait. In mid-August 1990, the United Nations imposed a trade embargo on Iraq. Enforced by a naval blockade, the sanctions were intended to generate compellent leverage via delivering pain to Iraq to force it to withdraw from Kuwait. Although the sanctions hurt the Iraqi economy, Hussein seemed willing to ride out the embargo until the coalition collapsed or decided to compromise. Facing the possibility o f waiting at least a year or more for sanctions to compel Iraq to withdraw, the U.S. decided to take offensive military action.®” A flurry o f diplomatic activity in January 1991, prior to the UN deadline of 15 January failed to avert the war. The Iraqis had refused to withdraw unconditionally and had tied their departure to, among other things, Israel’s withdrawal from the occupied territories. While aiding the cause of the Palestinians gaining acceptance in the Arab world, the U.S. government found the linkage ®  The U.S. was the primary actor in the Coalition. Any of the Coalition’s major decisions were really the U.S.’ decisions. 499  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 512 --- unacceptable. Early in the morning of 17 January 1991, the Coalition began the air campaign.” The Air Campaign Unlike other compellent operations, such as Rolling Thunder in Vietnam, during the Gulf War the U.S.’ political and military objectives were very similar. The most important political objectives were to secure the unconditio