pt the Communists’  war effort significantly. The DRV’s small industrial, power production, and petroleum systems were quite vulnerable to attack. However, they contributed little to the war effort because nearly everything North Vietnam needed was imported from China and the Soviet 173  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 186 --- Union. Strategic bombing could not achieve military denial in this type o f war being fought not for control of territory, but for the will to continue. Nor was North Vietnam particularly vulnerable to persuasion from the pain inflicted by bombing. Although the population was important to Hanoi, the U.S. did not directly attack the civilians due to political constraints. Besides direct attacks, there was little Rolling Thunder could destroy that would depress the morale of the population. Depriving them of the trappings of a modern society was unproductive because this mostly agricultural society had a very low standard of living in which modern comforts were a luxury rather than a necessity. The leadership was not vulnerable except by a direct attack, another operation precluded by political considerations. Moreover, the leadership was not very vulnerable to indirect pressure. They believed unification was worth more than the survival of their industrial sector, power plants, or transportation network. Finally, the North Vietnamese were willing to suffer heavy casualties and bear significant hardship to reach unification. Short o f a massive bombing campaign on almost a genocidal scale, it is questionable if there was a set of targets whose destruction would inflict sufficient pain to compel North Vietnam to change its behavior. The inadequacy of air power in this conflict was demonstrated by the failure o f both the military denial and punishment strategies. The military denial concept was thwarted by its inability to exert leverage in this war of attrition. Traditional attacks on the transportation system and the economic infrastr