g him had solidified and before the G ulf states became a major alternate revenue source for Iraq. However, limited by pre-war purges and a lack of spare parts, munitions, and replacement aircraft, the Iranian Air Force was too weak to execute a decisive operation. Meanwhile, Iraq used strategic bombing more ambitiously. Hussein’s hope for a limited war precluded a strategic bombing campaign early in the war. But as Iran reclaimed its territory and then drove into Iraq, the pressure on Iraq and Hussein mounted rapidly. To ease this pressure and to hopefully force Iran to accept a ceasefire, Hussein turned to his air force. Strategic bombing was to increase Iran’s cost o f continuing the war, thereby compelling Iran to end the 412  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 425 --- conflict, or at least reduce its land offensives. Yet instead o f a potentially more damaging economic infrastructure strategy, Iraq chose a punishment strategy. This decision was probably based on three factors, Hussein’s attitude toward air power and his Air Force, limited military capability of the IQAF, and political constraints, notably mutual deterrence. As the war progressed, Iran put more pressure on Iraq while Iraq acquired greater aerial capability (via purchasing more advanced planes and munitions, as well as increased experience and training). Iraq did escalate its efforts to where its aerial operations resembled the economic infrastructure strategy. But Hussein never shifted his state’s strategy to a pure economic infrastructure. He hesitated from inflicted maximum destruction, only wanting to wreak enough damage to achieve compellence though he realized the amount o f pain needed was far more than he originally predicted. Iraq tended to ease its countervalue operations whenever Iran diminished its ground war activities. And after Iraq’s successful ground attacks in Spring and Summer 1988, Iraq reduced its aerial operations. Instead o f applying the decisive amount of pressure,