cs Previous studies of coercion/compellence have generally failed to appreciate the relevancy of military strategy to success. Recognizing whether a proper military option exists is critical to compellent success. Using historical case studies, this dissertation demonstrates that the particular military can make a important difference. Additionally, there has been little examination o f how bombing strategies interacts with, and influences, the political dimension. Previous discussions of strategic bombing and the relevant coercion/compellence studies have developed parsimonious theories to explain and predict the most effective usage of strategic bombing. These authors believe the best determinants of the proper strategy are what is vulnerable and important in the targeted state. This study takes a  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 5 --- substantially different tact by positing that the compeller’s objectives are the key to determining the most appropriate bombing strategy. This dissertation shows that strategic bombing can best influence a conflict when the compeller’s objectives are tied to territorial control. This is because strategic bombing can most effectively disrupt the military capability needed to hold or seize territory. When possible, strategic bombing objectives should be linked with political goals that can be achieved through territorial control. Yet territorial control is not pertinent to all compellent operations. In these cases strategic bombing is not as effective, but not wholly ineffective. It should aim for the quick, decisive blow to achieve limited goals while working with other military, economic, and political pressures to exert compellent leverage. This method o f strategic bombing should be used with caution because its efficacy can be hard to predict. Finally, much of the early (pre-World War II) discussion of strategic bombing emphasized breaking the opponent’s resolve. Later research in compellence focused on inflicting pain