strategy. Admittedly, some in the administration felt additional air strikes were a plausible option.®® Reagan explicitly threatened future air strikes if Qaddafi continued his current policies.®® But the difficulties in mustering the political will Actually, the United States military, led by JCS Chairman ADM William Crowe, argued for Libyan military targets. Crowe believed the targets designated as terrorist-related were mostly o f dubious value and the destruction o f certain military targets would be more painful to Qaddafi. Therefore, ADM Crowe was not fully pleased with the target selection and was surprised at the raid’s efficacy. 335  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 348 --- to execute such a strike would obviously hinder future operations. Most U.S. officials, especially in the NSC, wanted to achieve the maximum amount of pressure with this strike. They hoped Qaddafi would be stunned by this display of American firepower and would see the need to concede, a classic shock strategy. Compellence would be gained by an attack directly aimed to jolt a leader to change, or at least moderate, his policy. Interestingly, the U.S. military was reluctant to attack the Aziziyah and Jamahiriyah Barracks because they were more a political than military targets.®® This shows the U.S. military had failed to understand this compellence effort relied above all else on persuading Qaddafi. Attacking terrorist related targets was important only if they served to increase Qaddafi’s perceived costs. Simply bombing something because it falls under the strict definition o f a military target was indeed meaningless. The U.S. military did have another justification for not bombing these two targets, both were located in congested neighborhoods. They would be difficult to find by radar in a speeding, low-flying jet and a miss would probably result in collateral damage. Eventually, Admiral Crowe, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, acceded to the Aziziyah and Jamahiriyah