be located centrally in the German cities. Considering the inherent inaccuracy of bombing at the time, the U.S. missions inevitably resulted in heavy collateral damage.”  Thus, the argument has been made that the bombing o f Dresden was simply a continuation o f standard U.S./British bombing policy.”  On the other hand, many of the Allied leaders clearly held the goal of the operation as part of the deathblow strategy.”  The best explanation is that there were differing views regarding the operation’s objectives and the deathblow concept was included. Regardless o f any military gains, the heavy German civilian casualties during the bombing of Dresden led to intense public criticism o f city-busting at this late stage of the war.”  Moreover, there is no evidence the bombing exerted any compellent pressure on the German leadership or reduced morale. It certainly did not yield a German surrender. But the Americans did not forsake the deathblow concept. In fact, there is speculation that the failure in Europe served to push the deathblow idea even more in the Pacific to give air power one last chance to prove its value in a spectacular way.” Results of the American Campaign The American post-war analysis, called the United States Strategic Bombing Survey (USSBS), concluded that strategic bombing played a decisive role in the defeat o f Germany. Yet the bombing failed to compel Germany to surrender without ground occupation. Germany surrendered only after its armed forces had 51  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 64 --- been destroyed, its territory occupied, and its leader dead. Some critics point to the German campaign during World War II as the prime example o f the failure o f strategic bombing. Admittedly, strategic bombing could not achieve independent compellence, but there are some important considerations before issuing a failing grade. First, the bombing’s effectiveness was mitigated by a number of factors. Bombing accuracy remained poor (although cons