battlefields of South Vietnam. However, it would have caused hardship inside North Vietnam and created difficulties in supporting the war in South Vietnam as China and the Soviet Union were not yet supplying North Vietnam with massive amounts of arms and economic aid. In conjunction with a large influx o f American troops in South Vietnam, Hanoi would have realized it faced a completely different war against a military force far more powerful than the French. Instead o f a monolithic group of fanatics willing to pay any price for unification. North Vietnam’s Politburo was divided into factions who debated how 237  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 250 --- to prosecute the war. The three contending strategies were; direct military confrontation with large units, guerilla warfare with small units, and negotiated settlement. Although the latter did not receive support from the most influential leaders.” ’ The shock of a superpower launehing a massive attack against an almost defenseless North Vietnam probably would have strengthened the arguments o f those who wanted a less direct military confrontation. This in turn may have led North Vietnam to pursue strategies (more guerilla warfare and/or negotiations) that would have de-emphasized direct confrontation with the U.S. in South Vietnam. Nevertheless, it is doubtful if such an aerial campaign could have changed North Vietnam’s ultimate objective of unification. Instead, it would have induced Hanoi to pursue a strategy based more on guerilla warfare than direct military confrontation. These air strikes may have led to a settlement, akin to a cease-fire, which would have reduced the southward flow of men and supplies from North Vietnam. This would not necessarily mean a U.S. victory. Nevertheless, it would have decreased the pressure on South Vietnam, which would have helped the situation. At best. Rolling Thunder could have forced a modification o f strategy, not objective.” Moreover, even if North Vietnam coul