bombing, the Army Air Force leadership decided to shift to urban area firebombing.’  The AAF was under pressure from the military and political leadership in Washington to show more results and incendiaries could inflict large, quantifiable amounts of damage.'”'* "  Actually, the operational head o f the B-29s, Brigadier General Haywood Hansell strongly favored selective bombings over firebombings. Therefore, he was replaced by Major General Curtis LeMay, who supported urban firebombing raids. 59  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 72 --- The Americans believed there was an operational justification for the incendiary campaign. Japan’s industry relied heavily on a dispersed feeder system and small "cottage" industries rather than large, central plants. Selective bombing did not have the accuracy to hit these small, spread out targets, but area bombing could eliminate the plants by destroying whole urban areas. Incendiaries would take advantage of the inflammability of Japan’s cities to vastly increase the destructiveness of the bombing.'”®  During the campaign, the AAF portrayed the raids as targeting industrial areas, and the resultant civilian casualties as just an unfortunate side effect of war.'”® The results o f the incendiary campaign were astounding. During the first firebombing raid on Tokyo in March 1945 some 16 square miles were immolated and there were over 100,000 casualties.'”’ By June 1945, Japan’s six biggest industrial cities were devastated.'”*  Yet the B-29s were not finished. After the main Japanese cities were hit, the bombers attacked the smaller cities. Altogether, the B-29s dropped approximately 160,000 tons of bombs, far less than the 2 million tons dropped on Germany, but the bombers obliterated some 175 square miles of 66 cities.'”" Nevertheless, destroying the industrial system was not the only objective of the incendiary campaign. The Americans were growing increasingly concerned with the prospective invasion. The Japanese were vie