g Nixon greater freedom o f action. Although Nixon was a rabid anti-communist prior to his presidency, he realized the benefits of detente and pushed hard for it.® ’ Fortunately for Nixon, both China and the Soviet Union were also interested in detente. Relations between 263  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 276 --- China and the Soviet Union had deteriorated badly in the 1960s. Long-standing grievances and mistrust as well as ideological differences had overcome communist comradeship. Tensions rose as both sides built up their military forces along their border and in 1969 there were a number of border clashes.®* Nixon realized he could exploit the deep division between the two communist states to gain leverage for the U.S. on a range of issues concerning the East versus West confrontation, including Berlin and arms control. But more relevantly, Nixon and Kissinger were optimistic that the Soviets, and to a lesser extent China, could play an important role in bringing North Vietnam to a settlement. The first breakthrough was with China. China was probably most interested in finding a counter-balance to the Soviet Union and becoming an influential player in the world diplomatic scene. Tentative feelers were sent out by both sides soon after Nixon was elected.®^ However, due to the glacial pace of such intricate and subtle diplomacy, the dramatic visits to China by Kissinger and Nixon did not occur until 1971 and 1972 respectively.™ This dramatic turn surprised and upset the Soviets, who then pushed harder for detente. The Soviets, always a little paranoid and fearful of China, now wanted to prevent a U.S.-China coalition. But the Soviets also were extremely eager to gain access to Western goods, especially technology and wheat, to obtain formal Western recognition of the territorial status quo in Europe, and to sign an arms control agreement to slow the spiraling costs of the arms race.’' 264  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 277 --- Detente’s impa