tire center of gravity, petroleum was an identifiable, vulnerable target whose destruction would have an enormous ripple effect. In fact, the effects of the petroleum campaign on the German war machine were startling. In just a few months after the operation’s start in May 1944, the production and importation of petroleum dropped precipitously (over 50%).®° The lack o f petroleum limited movement throughout the German war effort, all the way down to the tactical battlefield level, with obvious deleterious effects on combat effectiveness. By early 1945, Germany was nearly out of gas.®' Moreover, the production in other industries, such as chemical and rubber, were significantly reduced by the lack o f petroleum.®’ Admittedly, this campaign was aided by the Soviet seizure of Romanian oil fields and production facilities. Nonetheless, the bombing inflicted enormous damage to the petroleum system.®® The destruction of the transportation network further limited the delivery of petroleum products to combat units. It also hindered the movement of raw materials to industry, especially coal for fuel, and products to the frontline.®'* The Germany economy and war machine relied heavily on the railroad network, with some 75% of the freight traveling by railroads.®® River transportation also played an meaningful role.® ®  The Americans, with help from the British, began to 53  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 66 --- concentrate on transportation targets in the fall o f 1944. As with the petroleum industry, the results were quick and devastating. The movement along the transportation network rapidly declined. Consequently, the German economic production plummeted. By early 1945, the entire economy had collapsed.®’ One important, yet often overlooked, effect o f the strategic bombings is the indirect cost to the German war effort. Germany was forced to divert large amounts of increasingly scarce resources, armaments, and men to defend against the bombings and rebuild afte