refineries and the cities o f Suez and Ismailia.'“ On 26 October, Egypt launched another massive artillery attack. Seeing the reduced value of further artillery attacks, Israeli commando forces instead hit two bridges, a dam, and an electrical transformer station deep in Egypt. The raid was a classic countervalue attack to demonstrate Israel’s uninhibited ability to inflict pain to Egypt’s economic infrastructure.” The potential threat to Egypt’s irrigation system did not go unnoticed by the Egyptian government.”  Apparently, Nasser 119  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 132 --- believed the price was too high because over the next five months Egypt initiated only sporadic harassing fire. Meanwhile, the diplomatic arena was not quiescent. At their summit at Khartoum in August 1967, the Arabs pronounced a policy of "Three Noes" toward Israel: no direct negotiations, no formal peace, no recognition. Even though Nasser pushed for including the possibility of a political solution, Egypt was forced to side with the more radical Arab states.” The three noes placed severe limitations on Nasser because even negotiations with Israel would ostracize Egypt from its Arab brethren. Nasser was the most ardent proponent of Arab unity and nationalism, believing that as the leader o f the most powerful Arab state he was to guide them to unity.''* The thought of splitting Egypt from the other Arabs was not acceptable to Nasser. The three noes also strengthened Israel’s resolve against inconclusive negotiations.'® The limitations o f the Khartoum Conference seemed to amplify Nasser’s ambivalence toward diplomacy and negotiations with Israel. Nasser was not fundamentally opposed to negotiating with Israel. In fact, Egypt’s strategy for reclaiming the Sinai was not based on a total military recapture, but a partial seizure and then bargaining for the rest.'® However, Nasser was skeptical of the chances of success o f diplomacy without the prior use of military force.'’ Furthermo