srupted logistical operations for an extended period.'®® Consequently, it apparently did ’ ’  These are U.S. intelligence numbers, which of course may vary considerably from reality. Generating the battlefield damage assessment was difficult and controversial. Certainly, the Air Force overestimated the amount of destruction Commando Hunt wrought. For example, over one period o f time, the Air Force claimed nearly 21,000 trucks were destroyed or damaged by the bombing in Laos. Yet, other intelligence sources estimated that only 6,000 trucks had entered Laos during that time. But this does not mean the Air Force failed to inflict substantial damage. For a more complete discussion of the estimation process and flaws see Earl Tilford, Crosswinds. (College Station, TX: Texas A&M University Press, 1993), 116-118; and Eduard Mark, Air Interdiction in Three Wars. (Washington, D C.: Center for Air Force History, 1994), 358-364. 308  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 321 --- not effect North Vietnam’s ability to wage war seriously. For example, although the number of communist large unit attacks decreased during 1969 to 1971, the number of small unit attacks increased.'®’ The decrease can easily be explained by the NVA re-equipping and pooling its forces for the 1972 Easter Offensive. Moreover, during the Laos incursion in 1971, the NVA was able to gather quickly a strong counterattacking force that including tanks and heavy artillery.'** In fact. North Vietnam was able to support over 200,000 soldiers in Laos, Cambodia, and South Vietnam, most o f whom received their supplies via the Ho Chi Minh Trail.'®”  The value of the Ho Chi Minh Trail increased after the new Cambodian government closed Sihanoukville to the DRV. Nearly all supplies reaching Cambodia and South Vietnam had to travel the Trail. Yet, interdiction had not inhibited North Vietnam’s ability to sent equipment and men south. The Easter Offensive further demonstrated that North Vietnam could move large am