n, and the Allies’ attack on Germany. In all these cases, the primary issue was control of territory in one form or another. During the Persian Gulf War and World War II, strategic bombing disrupted the targeted states’ (Iraq and Germany) capability to 453  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 466 --- hold territory. During Linebacker I and the War of Attrition, strategic bombing disrupted the targeted states’  (North Vietnam and Egypt) ability to seize territory. Strategic bombing has exerted less compellent leverage via military denial during attritional warfare using mainly infantry and artillery over fixed fronts. In praetieal terms, this type of combat usually involves only small exchanges of territory occuppied by strong defenses and excessive casualties. It is not so much a question of taking more land or rapidly destroying the other state’s army, but of continuing the war and killing more o f the enemy. Consequently, seizing or worrying about losing large amounts o f territory is not a primary issue. Most importantly, attritional warfare requires less resources than mechanized combat as well as being more flexible in response to supply level changes. In other words, simply holding onto territory in fixed defenses while killing some enemy troops requires less resources. Moreover, during attritional warfare it is easier to reduce the fighting tempo, yet retain sufficient combat capability, when strategic bombing operations hamper supply efforts. Both Egypt and China/North Korea were able to kill many Israelis and Americans, respectively, during attritional warfare while undergoing heavy strategic bombing operations designed to limit the supplies reaching the front. O f course, strategic bombing can still impair an opposing army’s ability to advance beyond fixed fronts. Yet neither the U.S. in Korea nor the Israelis during the War of Attrition were able to thwart their opponent’s attrition strategy with air power. The bombing may have prevented the Chinese