and inability of the military to protect them. These pressures would either undermine Nasser’s rule and/or force an end to the war. Israel was unable to deliver enough punishment to the Egyptian Army to convince Nasser to concede or sufficiently disturb the population. Nor was the U.S. any more successful with Rolling Thunder. Part o f the rationale behind Rolling Thunder was that the U.S. had hoped North Vietnam would find the continuous bombing of interdiction routes too costly. Probably, bombing simply can not inflict a sufficient amount o f damage over a short enough period o f time. Ground forces can almost always inflict more direct damage to fielded military forces than can air power. For example, even during the Yom Kippur War, in which Egypt attacked an unprepared Israel and fought better than in any other Arab-Israeli war, the Egyptian army still suffered more losses in 19 days than during the 13 months o f the War of Attrition. 436  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 449 --- Retrenchment On the surface, there are many problems with the punishment/pulverization strategies due to pain’s inadequacy as the primary compellent pressure. The well known failures of these strategies and the unpredictability o f pain in exerting pressure have led to a general disregard for the effects o f pain generated by strategic bombing. This, however, I believe is incorrect. It is better to conclude that pain is rarely effective as a primary compellent leverage, but it is never unimportant and can play a role in a successful compellent operation. Part o f the problem with inflicting pain is that its results are often difficult to quantify. Moreover, these operations have been hampered by the failure to recognize the pain inflicted to the entire state does not necessarily pressure the leadership. Strategic bombing is a blunt weapon that tends to inflict punishment upon the state as a whole, which is often not sufficient to achieve compellence. The pain must be tailored t