d the bloody fighting would sap American morale and compel a withdrawal of U.S. forces.'"" During the first phase. North Vietnam suffered higher casualties than it wanted, but succeeded in drawing more of the U.S. forces farther away from highly populated areas. The second phase began on 30 January 1968, when 84,000 VC and NVA (mostly VC) attacked cities, towns, and hamlets throughout South Vietnam. It was a military disaster for the Communists. The South Vietnamese troops fought much better than expected and the American troops were able to recover and quickly move to thwart VC/NVA attacks. Estimates o f Communist killed ran up to 45,000. Except for the cities o f Saigon and Hue the fighting was over in two weeks. Just as important, there was no general uprising by the South Vietnamese.'"’ The final triumphant phase of the campaign was changed into two smaller offensives in May and August, both o f which were thwarted by the U.S. forces at considerable cost to both sides.'"® 219  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 232 --- Reassessment and End Game While the communists’ military operations during the Tet Offensive failed miserably, the shock of the attack in America was profound."’  A war the U.S. was supposed to be winning no longer looked so winnable. The bombing campaign that was supposed to limit the communists’ ability to wage war did not seem to be having much affect. In response. General Westmoreland requested 206,000 more troops at the end of February.'"" Johnson authorized his new Secretary of Defense, Clark Clifford, to set up a working group to study the new request and to reassess the whole Vietnam War. Again, the military vociferously argued for loosening the restrictions on the bombing, while a number o f civilians pointed out Rolling Thunder’s prior failings and the unlikelihood of any future success. The Clifford Task Force’s final memo to Johnson deferred the decision on the troop increases and discussed various escalation options for Rolling