was in fact an important event in the Arab-Israeli conflict.* While the 1973 Yom Kippur War was a dramatic indication o f the changing military- political landscape in the Middle East, the War of Attrition marked the first sign o f the shift. Moreover, it was the first war Israel failed to win, instead ending in a draw. But more relevantly, Israel relied on air power as its primary offensive weapon. This war is particularly interesting because of the constraints Israel placed on air power due to its desire to keep the conflict as limited as possible. Israel’s goal of achieving a decisive political victory was simply not attainable with aerial bombing in these particular conditions. Although air power could yield a limited military victory, Israel was unable to translate this into a settlement on its terms. Israel was never able to integrate its political objectives with the restraints on military force to create a viable strategy. Israel’s initial use of aerial bombing, from July to December 1969, attempted to reduce Egypt’s ability to wage war by striking front-line units rather than attacking the infrastructure supporting the war effort. Unlike most other 113  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 126 --- executions o f the military denial strategy, there was no concerted interdiction effort, attacks against rear-area supply dumps and command centers, or bombings of military industries. Instead, Israel attempted to weaken Egypt’s army through attrition of fielded forces. Israel’s use of air power could almost be classified as tactical rather than strategic due to the emphasis on military targets close to the battlefront. However, the larger political objective o f using bombing to compel Egypt to accept a settlement on Israel’s terms indicates its strategic nature. By the end o f 1969, the Israeli Air Force (lAF) had handily defeated Egypt’s air defense system and inflicted serious damage to other military targets. Nevertheless, Egypt’s President, Gamel Nasser