fense Caspar Weinberger and the Joint Chiefs o f Staff. The debate over how much pressure Washington should place on Qaddafi became quite intense by early 1981. Besides military attacks, consideration was given to other options including economic and diplomatic sanctions. Any hard-line actions were constrained by two problems; the potential for hostages from the 2,000 American oil workers in Libya and because Libyan oil accounted for 10 percent o f U.S. imports. In addition, heavy Western European reliance on Libyan oil precluded the most devastating non-military weapon, an oil boycott. Initial U.S. moves at coercive diplomacy focused on diplomatic isolation and removing the American workers from Libya. But not all U.S. actions were benign. In August 1981, the United States Navy conducted exercises in the Gulf of Sidra off the coast o f Libya. Qaddafi claimed the Gulf as Libyan territorial waters in contradiction o f accepted international law of the sea.*^ Although the Navy previously used the Gulf o f Sidra for exercises, this time the publicly stated objectives were to challenge Qaddafi’s claim on the Gulf and to assert the freedom of navigation rights.^'* Moreover, the ^ Article 7 of the 1958 Convention on the Territorial Sea declares that only bays whose mouths are under 24 miles wide can be considered territorial waters, except for those bays which have historical precedent. Neither criteria is met for the Gulf of Sidra is some 275 miles wide and Qaddafi’s claim on the Gulf came only in 1973 and was immediately contested. 323  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 336 --- new administration wanted to demonstrate U.S. resolve and willingness to flex its military might as well as to intimidate Qaddafi.^* The more bellicose members of the Reagan administration hoped Qaddafi would react so he could be "taught a lesson" via a powerful military response. On 18 August 1981, the U.S. Sixth Fleet began an exercise which included flights into the Gulf. After numerou