its communist allies. Remember, North 297  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 310 --- Vietnam did not drastically change their position. Linebacker II’s unique intensity and effectiveness, coupled with the growing isolation, may have had sufficient psychological affect to compel Hanoi to settle as soon as possible under already agreed to conditions rather than endure similar future bombings. Hanoi was not beaten into submission, merely shocked into acquiescence. Meanwhile, Linebacker II was also intended to compel South Vietnam and in January, Thieu decided to go along with U.S. Although it is difficult to determine why Thieu changed his mind, the dramatic violence o f Linebacker II probably played a role. But Linebacker II may not have been the key factor in Thieu’s decision. Although he strongly disliked the October agreement, Thieu seemed to understand the U.S. was going to settle. Yet, it was naive to assume Thieu would passively accept the agreement. Right after Thieu’s refusal, Nixon sent a message to him stating that a refusal to support the agreement would seriously affect U.S. support.” ®  But it was not nearly as strongly worded as the do-it-or-else message in January. The January message in October, coupled with the massive supply operation and promises of additional aid and support may have been enough to compel Thieu without Linebacker II. Although Linebacker II was a vivid demonstration of U.S. support for South Vietnam and inflicted considerable damage in North Vietnam, the threat of the U.S. signing the treaty alone and terminating all aid most likely exacted greater leverage. Linebacker II did succeed, but it did not achieve much. It compelled North Vietnam to re-agree to a settlement it had already agreed to. This should not be 298  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 311 --- considered a stunning accomplishment. Thieu was also apparently persuaded by the bombing and Nixon’s threats and promises. However, the question o f how much comp