on’s National Security Advisor, put it, "...there was no getting around the fact that each side’s propositions were totally unacceptable to the other."®’ However, in late September or early October, Egypt informed the U.S. it was willing to make a significant concession over the format of the talks. The United States responded in late October with the Rogers Plan, named after the U.S. point man in the Middle East, Secretary of State William Rogers. Its main provisions called for an Israeli 134  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 147 --- withdrawal from the Sinai, ending the state o f war, mutual official recognition of each others’  right to exist peacefully, establish recognized borders, and resolution of the refugee problem.®* Because the Rogers Plan contained stipulations anathema to Israel and Egypt, both rejected it. Nasser again vehemently objected to a negotiated settlement while Egypt was in an inferior position. On the other hand, Israel saw no point in making concessions while it was winning the war. Israel now also became increasingly wary of American efforts toward peace, fearing an imposed settlement that would not reflect Israel’s interests.®" Israel’s Deep Penetration Raids With the military victory and the collapse o f diplomacy in late 1969, Israel was faeed with the dilemma o f how to proceed with the War o f Attrition. Air power could neither fully deny Egypt’s capability to conduct the war, nor increase the costs past Nasser’s threshold. Thus, Israel was unable to compel Egypt to accept a ceasefire. The conflict might continue indefinitely and the Israeli leadership viewed the chances o f an imposed settlement increasing the longer the war dragged on. Furthermore, the constant, intense fighting was draining both physically and mentally on the small IAF.’° Consequently, Israel preferred a swift conclusion.” Thus, Israel could either attempt to reach a settlement by lowering its terms or escalate in hopes that increased military pressure wou