e abject failure o f U.S. policy and the eventual fall o f South Vietnam. This misses the crucial analysis o f Rolling Thunder as a compellence mechanism. Instead, Rolling Thunder should be judged primarily in regard to its specific, compellent objectives. Only after this initial appraisal can Rolling Thunder be analyzed in the context o f the overall American involvement in South Vietnam. 172  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 185 --- There have been no shortages of explanations as to the cause of Rolling Thunder’s failure. The military generally blames the gradual escalation and micro­ management from the civilian leadership in Washington. More recently, two other persuasive arguments have been presented; the Air Force was unable to develop a strategy appropriate to the situation, and that air power was inherently limited by the conditions in Vietnam.'® All three arguments hold at least some validity; none should be discarded outright. Gradual escalation flew in the face o f established military common sense and gave the North Vietnamese time to adapt to the bombing. In addition, clinging to WWII experiences led to the Air Force’s efforts to create a bombing strategy (economic infrastructure) that was not particularly suited for the Vietnam conflict. Rolling Thunder’s fundamental problem was its inability to either affect the military situation or persuade North Vietnam to modify its behavior by inflicting an intolerable amount of pain. The military denial strategy failed to affect this guerilla/attritional type of warfare. The low level of activity meant that the Communists forces in South Vietnam needed so little supplies and the transportation system was so resistant to interdiction that Rolling Thunder simply could not interdict and destroy enough to disrupt the Communists’  war effort significantly. The DRV’s small industrial, power production, and petroleum systems were quite vulnerable to attack. However, they contributed little to the war effort be