ightly more complete destruction of North Vietnam’s industrial, POL, and transportation infrastructure in 1965 or 1968 would not have had much more affect than Rolling Thunder. North Vietnam still did not need those targets in 1965. A 1965 Linebacker I would not be able to stop the VC/NVA forces and would therefore fail just as Rolling Thunder did. If executed in 1965, Linebacker II probably would not have fared much better than Rolling Thunder in the long-run. A 1965 version of Linebacker II would have shocked Hanoi, maybe enough to compel the North Vietnamese to sign some form of settlement requiring them to cease their support for the VC. Nevertheless, it probably would not have been enough to achieve a lasting modification o f North Vietnam’s behavior. The U.S. terms in 1965 were simply too high. Even if a treaty was signed. North Vietnam would have eventually resumed their supply of the VC regardless of whether the settlement prohibited it. South Vietnam’s government and military were so shaky by 1965 that continued VC attacks would have probably led to its eventual collapse. Like Linebacker I, a 1965 Linebacker II would not have been able to prevent the VC from operating their attritional war. Nor would the U.S. have been able to re-execute Linebacker II without a major provocation. Therefore, it may have forced North Vietnam to slow or even temporarily cut off aid, but North Vietnam could have eventually resumed its support. Even if the U.S. could summon the will to retaliate against the 304  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 317 --- North Vietnamese violations, a deadly cycle would have soon emerged o f bombing, slowdown, and then violations. The war would have continued at a lesser pace and created the same quagmire. Appendix Commando Hunt - A Forgotten Operation O f final note, it is worthwhile to discuss a lesser known bombing operation during this time, the interdiction of the Ho Chi Minh Trail under the code name Commando Hunt." While not a pure