rategic bombing campaign on cities in Germany in the Ruhr and Rhineland.” Although the British and Americans dropped more bombs than Germany did on Britain, the physical damage was essentially the same, very limited. In order to weaken German air defenses, approximately half the bombs were dropped on German aerodromes, which meant fewer bombs could be delivered to "strategic" targets. However, the basic problem was that the German war economy was simply 26  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 39 --- too vast to be disrupted by the amount of tonnage that was deliverable by the small Independent Bombing Force and American Army Air Force.”  Exerting compellent leverage through air power was unsuccessful. The Inter-War Rise of the "Prophets” Although strategic bombing may not have played the role in World War I that its proponents had hoped, it laid the foundations for the theoretical writings on air power in the inter-war period. William Mitchell, Guilo Douhet, and Sir Hugh Trenchard are the most prominent air power theorists of this time." While Mitchell and Douhet are the most famous, Trenchard had the most operational experience. The experience probably explains why he was the most pragmatic o f the group. Unfortunately, Trenchard never was able to articulate his thoughts in writing except " There were many others who are noted for their air power writings during this time. One celebrated theorist, Alexander de Seversky, had the good fortune o f Walt Disney making a movie based on his book, Victorv Through Air Power, even though he was probably not on par with Mitchell or Douhet. For more on his thoughts see Phillip Meilinger, "Proselytiser and Prophet: Alexander P. de Seversky and American Airpower," The Journal o f Strategic Studies 18, no. I (March 1995): 7-35. Other noteworthy theorists include: Edgar Gorrell, an American Army officer who, as one of the first air power thinkers, contributed incisive and enlightening analysis during World War I; John Slesso