ave an j North Vietnam and the Viet Cong could never seize South Vietnam through direct military conquest after the introduction o f American ground troops. '' The Korean War was similar. With no significant territorial objectives after summer 1951, the U.S.’ primary objective was to convince the Communists to stop fighting. 452  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 465 --- effect on less mechanized forces engaged in intense, mobile (relatively speaking) fighting aiming to destroy the other state’s army. Neutralizing the other state’s army does not simply lead to military victory. Once the army is eliminated or severely weakened, the state is vulnerable to territorial occupation and cannot seize territory. This, not just the military situation, exerts the critical level o f compellent leverage. Controlling territory is a function o f military strength and ability. A state involved in a wide-scale, intense conflict involving control o f large areas o f territory must devote considerable resources to the war effort. More importantly, these resources must reach the fielded forces. Disrupting this flow will seriously weaken a military, usually with disastrous consequences. Strategic bombing, with its unique deep strike capability, can disrupt a state’s ability to wage war by denying the basic resource and material support needed for its armed forces. This is why strategic bombing can have the greatest effect on mechanized forces.” They require the greatest resource support from the state, which presents the most lucrative targets for strategic bombing. The foremost example of the effect of strategic bombing on military capability is the U.S. bombing o f Iraq in 1991. Other examples o f this include Linebacker I, the Israelis during the early part of the War of Attrition, and the Allies’ attack on Germany. In all these cases, the primary issue was control of territory in one form or another. During the Persian Gulf War and World War II, strategic bombing disrupted t