el Egypt to accept a ceasefire."" Importantly, Israel wanted a settlement to reflect its strategic superiority. This would mean a major defeat for Nasser and Egypt. Fear o f international reaction and desire to keep the war limited restricted Israel’s options. Consequently, Israel was unwilling to escalate the conflict by bombing Egypt’s urban areas and exploiting Egypt’s vulnerable civilian sector. Although the lAF did not really have city-busting capability (Israel probably would not consider this anyway), the lAF would have had little diffieulty in battering Egypt’s eeonomic infrastructure. Power production facilities, the Aswan Dam, transportation nodes, and ports were all eventually open to attack by Israeli planes. The loss of these would have significantly raised Egypt’s costs for prosecuting this conflict. But Israel believed that exploiting Egypt’s military vulnerability would suffice. Israel maintained the military denial strategy and added an indirect 130  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 143 --- punishment strategy. Israel believed it could compel Egypt to end the war and accept Israeli superiority by launching continual aerial attacks on Egypt’s fielded military forces and destroying Egypt’s air defense system. This damage would be the punishment needed to undermine the morale of the leadership, military, and Egyptian people. In addition, the bombings would demonstrate Israel’s military superiority and by annihilating Egypt’s air defense system, make it clear to the Egyptian leaders that their country was wide open to further bombing. Commando raids were also planned to create dramatic demonstrations of Israeli military superiority and to put additional pressure on Egyptian ground forces.®" From a military standpoint, the Israeli actions over the rest o f 1969 were quite successful. The lAF swept aside Egypt’s air defense system, destroying or neutralizing the SAMs and hounding the Egyptian Air Force from the air. By December, Israel had comple