e targeted states have withstood heavy bombardment and punishment, while others have proved susceptible to punishment. While conceptually sound on paper, there are substantial difficulties in successfully operationalizing this strategy. The basic problem with is that states are often willing to endure considerable punishment; moreso than conventional weapons can deliver. As previously discussed, civilians are remarkably resistant to the effects of aerial attacks. Therefore, Ch ilians are not likely to place overwhelming pressure on their governments to force a change. Governments also seem difficult to compel with punishment. The targeted state’s leadership may hold its legitimacy to the war effort and not be willing to capitulate without severe cause or even removal from power.Thus,  a state’s resolve during conflicts is often quite high. When interests 95  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 108 --- and resolve are very high, states tend to capitulate only when the punishment reaches a level where the attainment of their objectives is no longer possible. This level of punishment approaches the amount needed to eliminate the ability to fight rather than just demonstrate resolve or inflict pain. Consequently, this defeats the point of using coercion instead o f the traditional military strategy. And if it is not politically palatable to expend that much force, coercion will fail. Another difficulty is identifying the targets whose destruction will cause the most pain. This assessment is often quite enigmatic. Punishment strategies tend to hurt the population, rather than specifically just the elite leadership. However, the leadership makes the decisions, thus, punishment strategies generally do not apply pressure precisely where it matters the most. The destruction o f targets in the civilian sector, i.e. economic infrastructure, may simply be written off as a casualty of war. Governments may be more swayed by attacks on the military sector because if sufficie