ed fronts. Yet neither the U.S. in Korea nor the Israelis during the War of Attrition were able to thwart their opponent’s attrition strategy with air power. The bombing may have prevented the Chinese and the Egyptians from 454  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 467 --- launching massive attacks that would seize more territory, but both could carry on lower intensity fighting. Admittedly, neither the U.S. nor Israel was able to bomb the basic production centers and resources the Egyptians and Chinese needed to wage war. This meant both the U.S. and Israel had to emphasize an interdiction rather than a parallel warfare bombing strategy. Consequently, if a compelling state has the capability to disrupt the targeted state’s total ability to wage war, strategic bombing might generate more compellent leverage than shown in these historical cases. This would be most effective in massive attritional fighting, such as the Western Front in World War I. But these wars are rare. In most cases, the lower level o f fighting that characterizes attritional warfare would probably mitigate the effects o f the wider ranging strategic bombing campaigns in most cases. A targeted state could simply reduce its fighting, especially offensive actions, and therefore reduce its supply needs as well. Strategic bombing is least effective against guerrilla forces waging a political and military conflict. These forces need the least amount of support and are considerably less interested in seizing and controlling territory. Indeed, territorial control is not a continuing operational goal o f guerrilla forces. In addition, guerrilla forces require the least amount of resources to wage war and are usuallly have a flexible fighting tempo. Stragegic bombing simply is unable to obstruct the low level of resources needed to supply most guerrilla operations and thus is ineffective. 455  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 468 --- Parallel Warfare and the Center of Gravity Revisited Pape e