a role. In the final assessment, even if the bombing did not independently win the war, without a doubt it contributed to the victory. Most importantly, the United States Army Air Force concluded strategic bombing played a crucial role. The AAF also concluded selective strategic bombing o f economic targets (oil, transportation, and industry) was the most effective application."' This belief was to become a prominent feature of the Air Force’s post-war doctrine. America’s Bombing of Japan In the Pacific war strategic bombing attempted to extract the maximum compellence, unconditional surrender without occupation. America placed an enormous amount of pressure on Japan via air and sea power, including the use of nuclear weapons. In the end, air and sea power had been able to compel a Japanese surrender without a ground occupation and total destruction of its army. Yet the success was not necessarily a result of a careful planned, orchestrated, and coordinated campaign. Instead, the U.S. Army (politically, the most powerful military branch) and both Presidents, Roosevelt and Truman, believed that 55  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 68 --- ultimately an invasion o f Japan would be required. The Pacific strategy was constructed with that end in mind. But since the American leadership was eager to avoid an invasion, firebombings and nuclear weapons were used. Over the years much of the attention concerning the aerial bombing o f Japan has focused on the nuclear attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. However, they were just the culmination o f a city-busting policy undertaken in the last six months o f the war. The United States’s aerial campaign had evolved from selective bombing o f industries into a Douhet type strategy o f pulverizing cities to destroy the will and ability to resist. The amount of damage inflicted on Japanese cities was staggering, most o f its cities were devastated and its economy was shattered. But whether this destruction was the primary caus