etnam was still in doubt. Degrading North Vietnam’s ability to wage war would help thwart the Easter Offensive. Throughout the campaign, from May until October 1972, Linebacker I utilized a strategy of military denial. The bombing operation had two phases. The first was based primarily on interdiction and had three goals, reduce the flow of supplies into North Vietnam, destroy existing stockpiles in the North, and reduce 274  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 287 --- the flow from North Vietnam south.'®'' After the Easter Offensive had been turned back and many of the fixed transportation targets had been struck, Linebacker I shifted its emphasis somewhat. The second phase incorporated some elements o f an economic infrastructure strategy. In addition to continued interdiction efforts, U.S. bombers also struck some o f the industrial and storage facilities needed to supply and support the war over the long run. Linebacker I began with U.S. naval planes dropping mines into the entrance of Haiphong harbor.'®® The mining’s effectiveness was shown by the fact that no cargo ship tried to run the mine fields. The rest of North Vietnam’s ports were also quickly closed with mines. Consequently, North Vietnam was cut off from its sea­ going conduit o f Soviet arms and supplies. U.S. bombers then shifted their attention to North Vietnam’s other supply route, railroads and roads from China. The U.S. began widespread use of guided bombs, primarily laser but also electro- optical, with devastating results. Bridges that had withstood numerous bombing strikes with unguided ordnance during Rolling Thunder were heavily damaged or destroyed by only a few laser guided bombs.'®® Guided bombs also inflicted considerable damage on the railroads. Although, the bombing operation was less effective against truck traffic from China, this mode o f transportation was unable to completely make up the losses.'®’ Linebacker I quickly cut off much o f North Vietnam’s external support. Mean