ger to target civilians and did not push the issue.'®® On the other hand, the JCS promoted a wider escalation using an economic infrastructure strategy.'®’  But this too was rejected due to the recurrent themes of fear of Soviet/Chinese intervention, the problem of "killing the hostage", and wanting to avoid inciting powerful domestic opposition. Yet, there also was a recommendation to hit North Vietnam’s POL system. As early as November 1964, the U.S. military concluded that North Vietnam critically needed oil to support the war in the South. As Rolling Thunder got underway and focused on the vulnerable 200  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 213 --- railroads, North Vietnam increased its reliance on trucks to move men and supplies. The DRV’s oil needs rose accordingly. Because the military consumed some 60 percent of the POL in the DRV, it seemed reasonable that depriving the POL would adversely affect the performance o f the military.'®’ The U.S. also hoped that severely impairing North Vietnam’s war effort would also diminish Hanoi’s will to continue. Attacking the POL system had other advantages. First, it was directly linked with the general interdiction effort and would be easier to justify to domestic and international critics. By now. Rolling Thunder had become a lightning rod for critics o f the war. The value of any escalation might be offset by the increasing condemnations and pressure domestically and internationally to end the bombing. Therefore, Johnson felt it was important to weaken his critics as much as possible, especially his domestic ones who could threaten his Great Society program. In addition. North Vietnam had no oil fields or refineries and was forced to import its entire petroleum requirements. It initially stored the vast majority o f its oil at only thirteen sites, meaning it was extremely vulnerable to a swift bombing operation. Finally, the most important targets were within the previous sanctuary boundaries o f Hanoi and Haiph