policy or action, such as terrorism, or to accept a ceasefire/peace treaty ending attritional warfare. Strategic bombing may not always be successful in these compellent operations, but it has not always failed. No author has sufficiently addressed these cases and the mechanisms involved. The best way to describe the differences in compellent objectives is with an example. During the War of Attrition, Israel’s first objective was to prevent an Egyptian invasion across the Suez Canal. Intense bombing in the summer of 1969 466  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 479 --- prevented such an attack from developing. Israel had successfully used military denial via air power to maintain control over territory (the Sinai), but could not stop the continuing attacks with artillery and small arms. Israel’s goals then shifted to forcing Egypt to cease the attritional warfare. Israel’s objectives had changed from a question o f territorial control to behavior modification. Although air power proved capable of preventing Egypt from violating Israel’s territorial integrity, it could not compel a change in behavior. With objectives other than territorial, to sway the opposing leadership, the compelling state must often rely on other forms of leverage than military denial. The military denial approach is not necessarily useless. It can play a role in some circumstances and is never really not pertinent in matters of military force: it never hurts to have sufficient superiority to achieve military denial. However, military denial can rarely achieve much compellent leverage without territorial control at the heart o f the issue. It is simply too far removed from the compellent objectives. Instead, influencing leadership is the key to success in these cases. It is very important to develop a bombing strategy that will exploit the leadership vulnerability while relying on more ambiguous results than a major military victory (or defeat). The method of exploitation can vary signific