lling Thunder began in 1965, Hanoi increased its dispersed reserves to over 60,000 tons.'"" This oil was essentially immune from bombing attacks. Thus, North Vietnam’s POL holdings far outwieghed it needs and the amount U.S. bombers could destroy. After the failure of the POL campaign, the U.S. decided to expand the economic infrastructure strategy with attacks on the DRV’s industrial and power production plants. Again this was consistent with the classic strategic bombing campaign as envisioned by a U.S. Air Force that came o f age during World War II. Again, the U.S. planes could destroy the majority of these targets. And again, it did not make much difference. The electrical power plants went first in the spring o f 1967. The justification for attacking the plants was that their destruction would deprive power to North Vietnam’s industrial base and war-supporting facilities. The U.S. quickly destroyed 14 of the 20 largest electrieal plants, thereby eliminating 87 percent of North Vietnam’s total production capability.'"" However, North Vietnamese filled their needs with over two thousand portable generators and the remaining plants supplying enough power for the few vital areas, such as the port o f Haiphong.'"’ 230  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 243 --- While this may not seem necessary to fulfill the needs of most states, it is important to note that in 1965 the PEPCO plant in Alexandria, Virginia generated five times the power produced in all of North Vietnam.'"* The destruction o f the electrical plants simply forced North Vietnam to adapt, but large amounts o f electricity were not crucial to the war effort or to the DRV’s economic survival. The final escalation o f the economic infrastructure strategy was the bombing o f the North’s industrial facilities. The U.S. had no problem identifying and destroying the handful of major industrial sites. The problem was that the industrial base was not critieal to supporting the war. The North’s industry m