sentative in Paris left, saying he wanted to study the situation for a few weeks. He left another proposal which the U.S. found unacceptable.'''® Nixon decided that military escalation was required to close the gap with Hanoi and Saigon. He did not want to let Vietnam linger. Nixon was also worried about Congressional reaction in January and wanted a treaty as soon as possible, preferably before his inauguration.''*'' Air power was the sole escalation option 288  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 301 --- because there was no chance o f re-introducing U.S. ground forces. To cover the diplomatic bases, Nixon sent an ultimatum to North Vietnam on 14 December, stating that serious negotiations would have to start within 72 hours, or else.'^^ Nixon also notified Thieu that the bombing was meant as a means to finally settle the U.S. involvement in Vietnam and to stop stalling or the U.S. would sign a separate peace.'''® In fact. Linebacker IPs probably was meant to pressure South Vietnam nearly as much as Hanoi.'"'’ This is an important point. While most authors view Linebacker II as solely aiming to compel Hanoi, it was actually intended to compel South Vietnam as well. It was a rare compellence example o f bombing one state to convince another state, an ally no less, to modify its behavior. Although technical discussions continued between the U.S. and North Vietnam in Paris (low-level talks working on the fine print), there was no substantial progress. But instead of merely resuming Linebacker I, on 17 December 1972, Nixon ordered B-52s to bomb Hanoi and Haiphong in a massive, swift operation (as well as reseed the minefield in Haiphong harbor).'"’® The Campaign Linebacker II was an example, albeit an extremely violent one, o f coercive diplomacy. It was a use of military force intended not to cripple North Vietnam’s ability to wage war but to be a reminder American air power’s ability to influence the military situation and to demonstrate the U.S.’  willingness