pons now allowed an annihilation strategy as Douhet envisioned to be executed. Although the American Air Force was wedded to the concept o f eliminating the ability to resist 62  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 75 --- via attacks on economic and industrial targets, the method of accomplishing this became city-busting. Post World War II - The American Military The development of strategic bombing theory in the post World War II era was stymied by the spotlight on nuclear warfare. Indeed, air power theory has expanded little during the next forty years. During the post-war time, the United States’  experiences dominated the discussion of air power. Few other states attempted a strategic bombing campaign, developed the specific doctrine regarding it, or acquired the capability to conduct one. Therefore, the following examination will center on the American experience. The advent of nuclear weapons provided a boon to the newly independent United States Air Force in the years immediately following World War II. The Air Force was striving to carve a niche for itself and capitalized on the widespread assumption that nuclear weapons would be used in the next conflict. The Air Force’s ability to deliver atomic bombs over long distances gave it leverage in bureaucratic and organizational struggles with the Army and the Navy. The fiscally conservative policy of the Eisenhower administration was especially beneficial because nuclear armed air power was well suited to carry out the policy o f Massive Retaliation."® But the Air Force did not embrace nuclear weapons simply due to bureaucratic politics. Nuclear weapons also fulfilled the ambitions o f air power 63  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 76 --- enthusiasts by providing it with the capability to be the decisive military force. Nuclear devices solidified the Air Force’s evolution to a Douhet type strategy of obliterating cities in order to destroy the industrial heart of a state and crush the population’s