al and diplomatic factors favoring coercive diplomacy, there also is no usable or effective military strategy.' But even in conflicts in which there is very little operational usage (i.e. shooting) of military power, the differences between strategies may play an important role. This is especially true in regard to strategic bombing which has numerous strategies that vary widely. A determination of whether a usable military option exists can hinge on developing a suitable and effective plan for applying strategic bombing. A poorly planned or executed military strategy could undermine an otherwise solid compellent operation. For example, it may not be enough merely to demonstrate resolve by dropping a bomb somewhere, it may also be 83  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 96 --- necessary to establish a credible threat or increase the cost of continuing a behavior. Thus, the selection o f strategy could be important. In omitting usable military option as a factor, George and Simons claim that this does not signify a downgrading of its importance, merely recognizing other forms o f pressure.’ However, this omission could be interpreted as a downgrading and also removes a detailed discussion of competing military strategies from his analysis. Indeed, their omission exemplifies most of the current coercion literature. The literature may point out that a military strategy failed and briefly discuss why in terms o f the political situation, but not evaluate the strategy in the context o f military studies. Therefore, even if the need for a usable military option is acknowledged, serious analysis is then needed to determine what constitutes a usable military option. Consequently, it is also important to discern the best way to use military force, specifically air power. The early air power theorists generated many ideas and concepts regarding a new and radically different weapon system. Although history proved their theories to be somewhat wanting, their work provides