the greatest potential for it examines power and relationships between states, nations, and other assorted collections of people. Compellence is one behavioral aspect of the relationship between states. Yet, political scientists tend to look at the question on a larger scale, i.e. in terms of which factors are involved in compellence, rather than examining military strategies which facilitate compellence. Consequently, the questions I pose tend to get lost in the gap between the two disciplines. ®  Since WWII most of the analysis of conventional strategic air power has centered on the United States military. Few other states have developed doctrine or executed much strategic bombing. Therefore, my discussion will focus on the American military experience. ®  Actually, this field has a variety of names, including national security affairs. One could argue terminology, but the subject is essentially the same, analysis of phenomenon in the military-political environment. "  Maj. Mark Clodfelter’s The Limits o f Aimower is an example o f just such a history. This is an excellent analysis of the strategic bombing in the Vietnam War. However, Clodfelter does not draw any larger conclusions concerning air power and achieving political objectives. 20  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 33 --- Air Power Theory The first part of the discussion will specifically look at air power theory and the development o f air power. Air power is the application of military force via aerial vehicles to gain some military or political advantage.’ Air power theory focuses on the doctrine concerning the operational use of aircraft. I will limit the examination of air power theory to strategic bombing. Although airplanes have been used in combat for approximately eighty years, air power theory is lacking. In 1992, Harold Winton, a professor o f Military History and Theory in the School of Advanced Airpower Studies (SAAS) at the United States Air Force Air University, wrote that he, "...