upon defense in conjunction with limited reprisals to deter Egyptian attacks. However, by July 1969, the ability o f the Israeli ground forces to inflict enough damage to deter Egypt had diminished. The problem was that the Israeli Army’s strength laid in its tank corps and its ability to conduct maneuver warfare. Israel was not willing to mobilize its mostly reservist army. Indeed, the Israeli government wanted to keep this conflict as limited as possible and even tried to maintain a public position that this was not a war but routine border violence."® Nor was Israel willing to risk Soviet intervention with a massive cross-Canal ground attack to destroy the Egyptian Army. High profile commando raids embarrassed Egypt, but they could only inflict minimal damage. Therefore, the Israeli leadership decided to turn to air power as its main offensive tool."" The use o f aerial bombing was obviously an escalation, but was perceived as a lesser escalation than a massive ground attaek. This was important for Israel was extremely concerned with many o f the potential pitfalls of a major escalation, such as alienating the United States, provoking a serious Soviet response, or igniting 128  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 141 --- warfare along the Syrian and Jordanian fronts. Bombing seemed to lessen the risk o f these dangers and was easier to stop if it proved too inflammatory. Moreover, bombing was less of escalation to a more general war than a massive ground attack. To this end, Israel limited the bombings to within 40 kilometers or so of the Suez Canal for most of the War of Attrition. Essentially, aerial bombing delivered the maximum amount of destructive power for the least amount of commitment. Israel Seizes the Initiative To forestall an Egyptian cross-Suez Canal attack, Israel adopted a strategy of military denial. The lA F’s objectives were to destroy the specialized weaponry needed for the assault and disperse Egyptian forces along Canal. Israeli planes