265 --- The negotiated settlement would help maintain U.S. prestige in the face o f a withdrawal and theoretically codify Hanoi’s intention to end the war. The U.S. negotiating position was based on Kissinger’s two-track approach, separating the military and political issues. Simply put, the U.S. wanted to achieve a military cease-fire with North Vietnam, but leave the political situation to be decided among the Vietnamese.” Initially, the U.S.’  two primary positions on the military issues were a mutual withdrawal of U.S. and NVA forces from South Vietnam and a swift return of U.S. POWs.’’ Nixon and Kissinger realized that Vietnamization, gradual withdrawal of American troops, and domestic criticism weakened the U.S. bargaining position and gave North Vietnam little incentive to negotiate seriously or compromise. The U.S had to convince Hanoi that the only way to remove the U.S. presence was via a negotiated settlement. Therefore, Nixon and Kissinger decided it was necessary to increase the pressure on North Vietnam through military and diplomatic/political maneuvers. In fact, Nixon believed negotiations would not be productive until the military situation changed.”  Consequently, he was always interested in applying more military force and would eventually order bombing and ground assaults into Cambodia and Laos.® Politically, Nixon would isolate North Vietnam by warming ®  Kissinger was by no means opposed to using military force, he was just less enthusiastic about it than Nixon. Kissinger felt continued military pressure, and the threat o f future, increased military pressure, was critical to negotiating success. Goodman, 96. 253  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 266 --- relations with China and the Soviet Union and linking those relations with the Vietnam conflict. Upon entering office Kissinger was optimistic about negotiations.” Besides his belief in the two-track approach, he felt the situation was ripe for a settlement. U.S. intelligence sources h