ive damage on North Vietnam’s transportation infrastructure, destroying over 400 bridges.'™ Although further strikes were made to disrupt repair efforts and to destroy important bridges in the buffer zone along the Chinese border. Linebacker I entered its second phase."®'’  This phase lasted until Linebacker I s cessation in October and concentrated on North Vietnam’s infrastructure. The intention of Linebacker I had shifted more toward depriving North Vietnam of its long-term ability to wage war. This was more o f a traditional military denial strategy based on the economic infrastructure approach than interdiction. Besides continuing attacks on the transportation system, U.S. planes targeted electrical power plants, POL storage sites, storage depots, some industrial targets (especially small repair shops needed to work on the increasing number o f tanks and trucks), and military barracks and headquarters."® While Rolling Thunder is notable for the extensive controls and restraints placed by Washington officials. Linebacker I was not without controls. Although Nixon and Kissinger feared a Chinese intervention much less than Johnson, the 30 mile buffer zone along the Chinese-North Vietnamese remained. However, it was not a hard line, instead more of protection to prevent U.S. planes from accidentally flying into Chinese air space. Navigational accidents happen and the 30 mile buffer zone increased the degree o f error needed to reach China. Strikes could be launched into the buffer zone if the operational commanders in Southeast Asia deemed it necessary to hit important targets. Many such strikes were flown. The restricted zones around Hanoi and Haiphong, 10 and 5 miles respectively, also remained. Strikes into these zones needed presidential approval. 278  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 291 --- Linebacker I continued into the fall when Nixon halted it on 23 October 1972 in response to a breakthrough in the negotiations.' On 8 October, Hanoi had officiall