rns regarding a land operation including: lack of domestic support, expected superpower constraints, probable heavy loses, lack of infrastructure (bridges) to support an operation across the Suez Canal, doubts as to whether it would succeed, and what to do with the additional territory if it didn’t. 136  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 149 --- directly admit that the deep-penetration attacks were launched to get rid o f Nasser, many implied as such.’® * However, the same restrictions of the previous phases still applied to this portion of the War of Attrition. Therefore, Israel decided to bomb only military targets. This severely limited the available strategies as the economic infrastructure or traditional punishment strategies were not acceptable. Instead, Israel adopted what could best be described as a strategy that fell between the shock and the punishment strategies combined with some aspects o f military denial. The military denial facet rose from the objective o f weakening Egypt’s military capability and led to bombing military camps, supply dumps, and missile sites.”  Their destruction hopefully would diminish Egypt’s ability to wage war. Yet, Israel hoped more compellent leverage would come from the psychological jolt o f the bombings; a classic shock strategy. The aerial attacks would demonstrate Israel’s military superiority to the Egyptian populace. This would reveal to the Egyptian people how weak their country really was and that Nasser proclamations of victory on the battlefields were lies. Trust between Nasser and the people would erode as would morale and the will to fight. The morale o f the Egyptian armed forces would also deteriorate as they failed to protect their country.’*  However, the actual execution was spread out like a punishment strategy, rather than the *  Although the Israeli government believed Nasser to be the main impediment to peace, there would be no certainty that a new leader would be any more willing to accept peac