al support. 190  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 203 --- was hampered by an inability to convey its objectives and settlement terms to North with clarity and with a sense o f urgency to reach a settlement. The failure to strike targets that were of any major military value, inflict pain, or would provide any shock value to the North Vietnamese government doomed this coercive diplomacy effort. Most of the strikes were on minor military installations and transportation targets far away from Hanoi, the capital and heart of North Vietnam, and were of little military value.®* Although coercive diplomacy did not intend to destroy military capability, it had to inflict punishment. The U.S. did not want to hit traditional countervalue targets mainly to avoid a powerful negative reaction at home and abroad. Because the North Vietnamese considered pain to be disrupting their support of the war, this limitation should not have been necessarily insurmountable. However, this initial stage of Rolling Thunder failed to deliver much pain and failed to demonstrate it could be a substantial future threat.®^ In addition, much like a population’s fear of bombing will often diminish after surviving bombings that present little danger, Hanoi probably gained confidence as the U.S. attacks presented no immediate danger.™ As the DRV had a particularly high resolve in continuing its behavior, it was important to employ the "stick" with sufficient force to induce a change. But instead o f being a major blow. Rolling Thunder was just another obstacle on the road to unification that could be dealt with progressively as it became more troublesome. A weak Rolling Thunder gave North Vietnam no motivation to change its behavior. Interestingly, a 191  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 204 --- number o f senior American officials, both civilian and military, recognized the weakness o f Rolling Thunder and suggested more robust strikes.” O f course, the U.S. had an available military