d. Thereafter, the effort to influence the will and morale of the North Vietnamese worked in conjunction with the military denial strategy. Although most U.S. government officials believed the interdiction and economic infrastructure attacks would be more successful as part of the denial strategy, they did not overlook the fact that the constant bombing would inflict punishment on North Vietnam. In faet, an influential argument for the economic infrastructure strategy was that North Vietnam’s will to fight would collapse upon destruction of its industries, power produetion, the other facilities needed to keep a modem economy functioning. The U.S. government assumed that Hanoi highly prized its industrial base and would not tolerate its destruction, not just for military reasons but for its economic value.’"’ The Americans were wrong. The eventual destruction o f the major industrial facilities were not painful enough to sway North Vietnam’s leaders. 232  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 245 --- In addition, the U.S. hoped the constant bombings would erode the morale of the North Vietnamese population. Besides the direct loss of life and material, the loss o f the economic infrastructure would deprive many people o f income and modern amenities sueh as electricity. The interdietion campaign would make travel more diffieult and bring the war home throughout North Vietnam. The war and the bombing did bring hardship to the population. There were shortages of food and consumer goods, more arduous work, family separations, and loss o f family members. But there were no signs o f unrest or a decline in determination o f North Vietnamese to win.’"" In fact. Rolling Thunder played into the hands o f Hanoi’s efforts to maintain stability and order. It provided a visible foreign enemy Hanoi needed to rally the people against. Rolling Thunder caused some death, destruction, and hardship, enough to be a unifying force, but never enough to seriously hurt the average pers