ften been readily dismissed. Yet it is wrong to discard their beliefs without detailed examination. While their writings included some very obvious errors, they had some remarkably prescient thoughts.® Moreover, they understood that air power was fundamentally ^ It should be noted that Douhet and Mitchell’s writings were not altogether original. They gained distinction due to their ability to cogently organize concepts, ideas, and arguments into easily accessible material. ®  They erred in other aspects of air power as well. Douhet was badly mistaken in his belief that the only plane necessary was a battleplane, which was mostly a bomber. Remarkably, he failed to see the need for fighter planes, believing bombers were invulnerable to interception and destruction. ®  One example was Mitchell’s demonstration o f naval vessels’ vulnerability to aerial attack by sinking of a number of battleships during exercises in 1921. Unfortunately, the American military leadership did not fully understand that message until December 1941. 28  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 41 --- different from land or sea warfare and that the traditional ideas and theories concerning warfare needed modification in order to account for air power. Their mistakes are partially attributable to the conditions o f their time. A significant cause was their constant fight to preserve the fledgling air arms. The military budgets o f the 1920s and early 1930s were very small, bringing into question the need for separate air forces and even airplanes themselves. Extolling the virtues of air power, and strategic bombing, provided a rationale for maintaining i'le air forces.”  For example, Mitchell emphasized naval ships’ vulnerability to the airplane, thereby capitalizing on America’s isolationist leaning political leadership to demonstrate how air power could defend America’s shores.” Furthermore, the small body of data, based on the limited experience in World War I, adversely affected the accura