sy to denigrate North Vietnam’s concession to separate the military and political issues as a mere acceptance of reality, or as just a quick way to get the U.S. to leave. Both o f these conclusions may be true, but this underestimates the difficulty in making the shift itself and the magnitude of the concession significantly. The North Vietnamese leadership had staked their entire foreign policy, and thus most o f their domestic policy, on unification. A lifetime of war with detestable enemies had done nothing to foster an attitude o f compromise in the minds o f North Vietnam’s elite. Shaped by war, nationalism and communism, many of them probably felt that compromising with foreign capitalists was heretical. The communists lost dearly at their first attempt at compromise in the 286  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 299 --- 1954 Geneva Accords and were wary of negotiations in the 1960s and 1970s. Although some members of the ruling Politburo did argue for a negotiated settlement during the U.S. involvement, they always lost to the strategy of "fight on with no compromise". Now, in late 1972, the Politburo suddenly reversed itself. Reversals of a government’s fundamental policy and strategy without a change in the government are never easy.'”  There is no reason to believe this shift came any easier. Moreover, the October agreement did not end the war. The removal of the U.S. military force eased North Vietnam’s task, but Hanoi believed much hard fighting remained and was very surprised by South Vietnam’s collapse in 1975. In 1973, even without the U.S., North Vietnam did not view unification to be a simple fait accompli. Consequently, North Vietnam’s concession should not be brushed away frivolously as only a token action. Linebacker II After being very close to completion in October, the talks broke down in November due to South Vietnam’s recalcitrance, which led to problems with North Vietnam. The U.S. had been negotiating with little input and communica