bility to resist. The amount of damage inflicted on Japanese cities was staggering, most o f its cities were devastated and its economy was shattered. But whether this destruction was the primary cause o f the Japanese surrender is still being debated. Objectives, Plans, and Operations The United States strategy in the Pacific evolved as the war progressed. The initial plans were geared toward stabilization. The "defeat Germany first" priority limited the resources available in the Pacific campaign, especially early on, making large-scale offensive actions difficult. Anyway, in 1941 and most of 1942, the Allies were concerned more with just stopping Japan rather how to force it to surrender. By 1943, Allied (especially American) successes led to a more offensive strategy. Even so, the objectives tended toward maintaining pressure on Japanese forces rather than sweeping into Tokyo."’ At the Casablanca Conference in 56  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 69 --- January 1943, the Allies formally decided on unconditional surrender. Now the Americans (being the predominant Allied force in the Pacific) had to create a Pacific campaign strategy which would achieve unconditional surrender. The new strategic plan focused on a sea blockade and aerial bombardment o f Japan, with the destruction o f the Japanese fleet and a reduction o f the island empire also critically important."® An assault o f Japan was initially seen as being in the distant future and might not even be necessary."'* However, later in 1943 and into 1944, the idea that an assault would be required grew until it dominated American planning. The Army and the political leadership did not believe strategic bombing could compel a surrender, even in conjunction with the submarine campaign. The Army believed that victory was only achievable through the destruction of the Japanese military and occupation of Japan’s industrial heartland."® By the summer of 1944, American strategy formally included an invasion