frastructure, military units, or even city- 89  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 102 --- busting. However, in practice, the punishment strategy often has been directed more toward the civilian sectors than purely military targets. A modified form of the punishment strategy is the so-called deathblow or shock strategy. Rather than being elucidated by a single theoretician, this strategy’s defining characteristics can be discerned from actual operations. This strategy encompasses a wide range of bombing operations, from massive raids such as Dresden to small coercive diplomacy operations like the 1986 U.S. bombing of Libya. The shock strategy is a one-time (or related series over a short period of time) bombing whose primary intended impact is psychological. Unlike the pulverization strategy, the shock strategy does not call for widespread devastation throughout the enemy state. Hence, it is similar to the punishment strategy. However, the shock strategy intends to achieve compellence from the trauma o f the attack. Although future bombings may occur, the shock strategy aims to slam the enemy immediately into compellence or push a weakened enemy over the edge. Due to its limited nature, it is difficult to accomplish much long-term denial of military capability. 90  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 103 --- "Smart" Weapons "Smart" weapons, which were used with dramatic effect during the Gulf War, may substantially alter the conduct and affects o f strategic bombing.'’  Due to precision guidance, smart weapons vastly increase the destructive power o f each delivery vehicle while limiting the collateral damage. Although they obviously increase the effectiveness o f Mitchell’s economic infrastructure strategy, the most profound effect may be on the pulverization and punishment strategies. With smart weapons, the social-economic fabric of a state may be destroyed without killing the people as the pulverization strategy was wont to. This circumvents the leg