tic, and military activities to match its coercion objectives.’ ’ In fact, it is very important to coordinate the diplomatic and military actions precisely than when using military denial because its influential power is less clear-cut. Compellent leverage is obtained not from a definitive depletion of military capability and loss of territory, but a perception o f pain, vulnerability, and the psychological jolt of being attacked. Obviously, all successful operations exploit the leadership vulnerability sufficiently. Not surprisingly, successful shock strategies have a common tendency, immediacy to the other state’s leaders. Immediacy is crucial because the leadership must be keenly aware of the effects of the bombing operation. Hitting targets far removed from the leaders lessens the psychological impact of being bombed, even more so if those targets are not of high value to the leaders. The Libya strike obviously gained persuasive power by attacking Qaddafi’s home and command center. Likewise, the Italian leadership could easily see the effects o f the Allied bombing attacks on Rome. Bombing raids aimed elsewhere in Italy probably would ’ ’ The conditions George, et al, cite as favoring coercive diplomacy success cover the scope o f diplomatic (clarity of objectives and terms) and political (strong motivation and leadership, domestic and international support, and fear of unacceptable escalation) variables. And I have shown how the military strategy also plays a significant role. Regardless of their failure to include the military situation, George et al, do a masterful job of discussing how the geo-political variables and factors favoring coercive diplomacy work. 473  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 486 --- not have had the same persuasive affect on Italy’s leaders who were able to see the damage caused by bombs and a terrorized population. In Iran, the civilians expressed their displeasure by evacuating cities, especially Tehran, under attack and ignor