gic bombing. Two o f them, figuratively named Douhet and Schelling (or punishment and risk), exploit civilian vulnerability. The Douhet strategy calls for a massive blow aimed at the civilians, basically the deathblow concept from World War II, which would result in swift capitulation. The Schelling strategy is more subtle, combining punishment, the threat of more punishment, and negotiation to achieve a settlement before maximum destruction. These strategies are shown to exert little or no coercive leverage. The final strategy, called denial, attempts to exploit military vulnerability by neutralizing the 81  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 94 --- victim’s military forces (mainly through an interdiction campaign). Pape concludes the most effective way for air power to obtain coercive leverage is through the denial strategy. Conventional coercion rests on the ability of the coercer to undermine the targeted state’s military strategy. Thus, Pape illustrates how the coercer’s military strategy is directly related to coercive success. 82  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 95 --- CHAPTER THREE FOCUS OF THIS STUDY AND MECHANICS The current state o f compellence and air power theory indicates that more analysis is warranted. While Alexander George, et al.’s discussions of coercive diplomacy are insightful, they lack a detailed integration of the nuances of military strategy with diplomatic and political machinations. Of course, George and his co­ authors were concentrating on a narrow range o f cases which inherently involve military force to a lesser degree. Because the military situation is not fully independent from the political situation, George and et al.’s analysis does partially cover this issue anyway. More often than not, when a case has few political and diplomatic factors favoring coercive diplomacy, there also is no usable or effective military strategy.' But even in conflicts in which there is very little operational usage (i.e. shooting) of