would be immense. Because the amount of pain inflicted with smart weapons could be significantly more than unguided weaponry, it is possible that a punishment or pulverization strategy relying on precision-guided munitions could succeed. Furthermore, smart weapons may hone the blunt edge o f strategic bombing sufficiently to bolster the punishment strategy’s ability to focus pain specifically on ^ Protocol I to the 1949 Geneva Convention limits the indiscriminate (i.e. area) bombing o f population centers. 443  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 456 --- the leadership rather than the state as a whole. Smart weapons can destroy fixed point targets, such as buildings or critical economic infrastructure components, that leaders might find valuable or would generate indirect compellent pressure on them. While determining what should be bombed remains a vexing problem, smart weapons allow a more precise application of strategic bombing. But it is difficult to draw conclusive assessments because there are few instances of smart weapons being used. In Linebacker II, precision-guided munitions clearly helped the U.S. compellent effort, but it is not easy to determine to what extent the smart weapons helped. Furthermore, the U.S. was not using a punishment or pulverization strategy in the Gulf War. But of course, the U.S. was not interested in just seeing Iraq withdraw from Kuwait, it also wanted to severely damage Iraq’s fielded military force. The latter objective was not compellence, so the Gulf War was not a true test of how much compellent leverage smart weapons can achieve. Nevertheless, the U.S. inflicted considerable damage to the Iraqi infrastructure, energy resources, and communication systems, among other things, which put ample pressure on the civilian population and Iraq’s leadership. If the U.S. was only interested in seeing Iraq withdraw from Kuwait, compellence may have been possible without the ground war. In a larger sense, the effects of precision-g