ort arms to any state that sponsored terrorism, reduce the diplomatic missions of states that sponsored terrorism and took measures to improve cooperation between the G-7 state’s intelligence, security, and justice forces. During the summer of 1986, the Europeans began to implement mild economic sanctions.*® As a result, Libya became even more isolated in the world scene. Qaddafi’s nominal allies, the Arabs and the Soviets, failed to rush to his aid and the Europeans drifted further away. Success or Failure Long term results indicate the raid was successful. The main objective of the raid was to reduce the amount of terrorism Libya sponsored. After an initial spasm o f retaliatory attacks, terrorism that could be attributed to Libya declined.*'* An escalatory tit-for-tat exchange never emerged. More importantly, the high profile terrorist acts against American targets seemed to dissipate. Removing terrorism from the nightly television news ended the continual demonstrations of America’s difficulties in countering terrorism. An exception was the destruction of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland on 21 December 1988 which killed 344  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 357 --- 270 people.®* Libyan intelligence personnel were implicated in helping to plant a bomb aboard the plane and were eventually indicted by the United States in 1991. Libyans probably were involved with Qaddafi’s consent, but the bombing was probably a retaliation (and therefore Iranian sponsored) for the accidental downing of an Iranian airliner by a U.S. cruiser in the Persian Gulf in July 1988.®* Obviously, Libya has not totally forsaken terrorism. It is doubtful whether Qaddafi can ever be compelled into giving it up. A single strike that did not kill or unseat Qaddafi could only do so much. Anyway, the objective o f reducing terrorism constitutes continued compellence which typically requires recurring actions, which were not forthcoming.®® There was interest in the U.S. government