ities. The U.S. had no problem identifying and destroying the handful of major industrial sites. The problem was that the industrial base was not critieal to supporting the war. The North’s industry made little contribution to prosecuting the war, only manufacturing some small arms and ammunition and producing some needed materials such as cement and explosives.'"" The Chinese and the Soviets provided much o f the supplies, raw materials, and weapons needed to fight the war. Between 1965 and 1967 the Soviet Union alone provided approximately $1.8 billion of economic and military aid to North Vietnam.’"" The Chinese contribution had a lower monetary value, but included necessities such as food and small arms.’"' The Soviet tended to provide more sophisticated armaments and supplies.’"’ The massive foreign aid replaced the limited support North Vietnam’s industrial sector provided to war effort. Punishment Strategy The other mechanism for achieving compellence was through inflicting punishment. This would affect the morale and will of North Vietnam’s leaders and 231  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 244 --- people to continue the war. The problem was that neither the leadership nor the people were susceptible to pressure from aerial bombing. Rolling Thunder was hampered by Hanoi’s high resolve to achieve unification and the North Vietnamese people stoic acceptance of hardship. But most o f all, the U.S. continually assumptions concerning what North Vietnam’s would feel as painful were totally mistaken. Rolling Thunder’s only specific effort to solely target the will to continue was the coercive diplomacy operation in the spring of 1965. Rather than deny military capability it intended to deliver some pain to persuade North Vietnam to modify its behavior. It failed. Thereafter, the effort to influence the will and morale of the North Vietnamese worked in conjunction with the military denial strategy. Although most U.S. government officials believed the interdi