act on capability due to the extensive nature of the support infrastructure, the small size of the raid, and Libya’s ability to replace equipment. Aftermath Not surprisingly, Qaddafi quickly condemned the United States for the strike and promised revenge. Libya then fired two Scud missiles at the Italian island of Lampedusa, some 170 miles from Libya. Both missiles missed the island entirely.®^ There was a small surge of terrorism aimed at American targets, including the murder of one American and two British hostages held in Lebanon.®'* But there was no eruption of violence. Reports concerning events in Libya immediately after the raid varied significantly. Qaddafi disappeared from public view for two days and there were reports of a possible coup attempt. When he reappeared, he seemed haggard and somewhat incoherent. By most accounts, Qaddafi was psychologically shaken by the attack. He also shifted his primary command and control center from Tripoli to a spot deep in the Sahara Desert.®* Nevertheless, he retained his grip on power. International reaction was mixed. The Soviets, o f course, criticized the attack, but their only major action was canceling a meeting between Secretary of State Shultz and Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze.®* Soviet support for Libya remained very limited and there was no serious disruption in U.S.-Soviet 342  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 355 --- relations. Fears o f driving Libya deeper into the arms of the Soviets proved unfounded. Essentially, the Soviet Union was happy to do business with Libya, but was sufficiently concerned with Qaddafi’s inconsistent behavior to avoid a closer relationship. Therefore, the Soviets were not willing to become Libya’s protector or start a fight with the United States over Libya.®® Arab reaction, except for Syria and South Yemen, was also lukewarm at best. The requisite public condemnations were made, but in private there was a surprising amount of support for the attack. There was no