t dropped sharply in November and December 1969.®’ The intense lAF bombing was beginning to affect Egypt’s ability to use even smaller arms. In addition, Nasser attempted to relieve the pressure on Egypt. He tried, and failed, to garner more Arab support during the Rabat Summit in December 1969.®" More importantly, Nasser turned to the Soviets. Nasser’s overriding concern was getting an air defense system for his beleaguered country, but he also wanted weapons to strike back at Israel proper. Although the Soviets rebuffed the request for bombers, they agreed to provide more sophisticated air defenses.®® Yet, the 133  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 146 --- actual transfer of equipment would take some time to allow for training of Egyptian persormel. Thus, in the near future, Egypt would have no way to protect its skies. Diplomatic Endeavors The latter half of 1969 was a crucial time. Israel had successfully defeated Egypt’s strategy and had tempered the fighting along the Canal to a more acceptable level. However, Israel failed to convert military success into political victory. The use o f air power alone did not lead to a peace settlement on Israeli terms. Due to Nasser’s strong resolve, Israel would have to achieve a decisive victory in order to get the terms it wanted. In December 1969, Egypt’s armed forces had been damaged but not destroyed. Israeli air power could yield a limited military victory in the War of Attrition, but not a decisive one. This is not to say that the diplomatic front was inactive. During the first eight months of 1969 many rounds of negotiations took place between the United States and the Soviet Union on behalf of their respective client states. Yet, there was little progress toward a settlement.®® As Henry Kissinger, President Nixon’s National Security Advisor, put it, "...there was no getting around the fact that each side’s propositions were totally unacceptable to the other."®’ However, in late September or early October, E