y denial, and economic infrastructure strategies. Furthermore, the Vietnam conflict aptly demonstrates the limitations of air power, while concurrently showing when it can be effective. O f the non-U.S. cases, the War o f Attrition and the Iran-Iraq War were the most clear-cut examples of compellence and had the widest range of bombing strategies and conditions. For example, both featured elements o f the punishment, shock, and military denial strategies and each dealt with both attritional warfare and territorial disputes. O f the two single-strike shock strategies, the Libya raid seemed more appropriate than the Lebanon to show the characteristics of a successful execution of this operation. Although being the only case involving John 108  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 121 --- Warden’s parallel warfare theory, I decided not to include the Persian Gulf War. Upon further examination I felt the Gulf War was not a case o f pure compellence.^ But I still felt it important to include some o f the information gleaned from the other cases, especially the Lebanon raid and the Persian Gulf War. Therefore, 1 decided to include an appendix to briefly summarize the Korean War, the Lebanon raid, and the Persian Gulf War. These cases will add even more data to my conclusions. For example, the Lebanon strike aptly demonstrates how not to conduct a shock strategy. The appendix will also demonstrate the validity o f my conclusions across a wider spectrum of historical examples. Questions As per the focused case comparison method, it is critical to construct a set o f questions to apply to each example. One of the problems with the early efforts in this field was the tendency to analyze either the political or the military. Instead, it is important to examine the military and political situations independently and then analyze they affected each other. ' The Persian Gulf War was not pure compellence because the U.S. government did not want to achieve its political object