cerned that this operation would threaten the upcoming summit. But Nixon believed the Soviets would not jeopardize their relations with the U.S. even over this direct challenge.'®’ Linebacker 1 Begins On 8 May Nixon announced his intention to close Haiphong harbor (and other smaller ports) with mines and to begin a bombing campaign against North Vietnam. The combined effort was code-named Linebacker (the I was added later after Linebacker II). Fears of the Soviets canceling the summit were unfounded. 273  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 286 --- Nixon went to Moscow on 20 May even while North Vietnam’s ports remained closed and bombs rained down throughout the countryside. China’s official protests were only lodged against the U.S. for accidental damage to Chinese ships. Nixon had succeeded in both unleashing military power on a level not seen in Rolling Thunder and isolating North Vietnam.'®® Linebacker I s overall objective was to compel North Vietnam to resume negotiations and compromise enough to sign a treaty that would end direct U.S. involvement in Vietnam. The bombing would demonstrate that the U.S. could still significantly influence the battlefield situation by denying North Vietnam the ability to conquer South Vietnam. Just as importantly, it would show the U.S. was willing and able to wield this military force and that Hanoi’s allies would not prevent it. While the psychological dimension was not ignored— the bombing campaign would hopefully decrease North Vietnam’s will to continue with its extensive destruction— the military situation took precedent. Nixon believed the military balance had to be shifted fundamentally before Hanoi would seriously negotiate. More immediately, the Easter Offensive had not yet been stopped and the survival of South Vietnam was still in doubt. Degrading North Vietnam’s ability to wage war would help thwart the Easter Offensive. Throughout the campaign, from May until October 1972, Linebacker I utilized a strategy o