whole. Strategic bombing is merely one aspect of his work. Furthermore, he concentrated on the operational level of analysis. It is not surprising he would look to centers of gravity which stresses targets over strategy and is well suited for the operational level. I analyze Warden because he is one of the very few noteworthy air power theorists to emerge from the U.S. Air Force in the last half century. Finally, as I will explain later in the text, Warden has not taken a Mitchellian dogmatic belief in parallel warfare. He does understand that the leadership circle really should be the primary focus of any conflict because it ultimately controls the state. 445  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 458 --- Warden’s parallel warfare approach would be most effective in long, attritional wars such as World War II in which seizing territory and destroying the enemy’s armed forces are the key to success. Yet, destroying the fabric of a state may not necessarily lead to compellence. Regardless o f the extensive damage it caused, Rolling Thunder did not contribute significantly to the U.S. compellent effort in Vietnam from 1965 to 1968. Even Linebacker I, a successful use of bombing, developed much of its compellent leverage from the external interdiction rather than internal damage. And the leverage exerted from the hugely influential tactical air power was not derived from hitting any targets in North Vietnam. From the case studies, the need to carefully conform the military strategy to the situation is apparent. Widespread bombings may look impressive, but do not necessarily lead to what you want to achieve. Successful compellent operations are never easy to execute. Success depends heavily on tailoring the use o f military force and diplomacy to the political objectives within a framework which is not always particularly suited for compellence. In fact, not all compellent attempts are suited for, require, or even, permit such large uses of force. The limited nature