the NVA became a more mobile, mechanized army that had significantly more firepower.’^ But it also was more cumbersome and was tethered to an exponentially larger logistical support network. Operation Proud Deep Alpha By the fall of 1971, U.S. intelligence had detected the unmistakable signs of a large NVA buildup in the southernmost reaches o f North Vietnam and Laos.*® Assuming North Vietnam would soon be launching an offensive, Nixon/Kissinger decided to strike first. During the last five days of 1971, the U.S. bombed SAM sites, supply caches, and troop in southern DRV and Laos under the code name Operation Proud Deep Alpha.*' Tactically, the bombing intended to destroy SAM sites that threatened U.S. reconnaissance planes and to disrupt the expected NVA offensive. On a higher level, it would again show the U.S.’ willingness to use military force and hopefully convince Hanoi not to launch the offensive.®’ However, just as the earlier bombing operations and incursions into Cambodia and Laos, this campaign was too brief and limited. With over 1,000 bombing sorties, it did inflict damage to SAM sites and supply caches, but not nearly enough to disrupt Hanoi’s plans seriously.*® Clearly, North Vietnam decided to continue with offensive and there were no indications that the offensive had to be postponed. Ironically, this operation may have even encouraged Hanoi. Since 1968, every major American/ARVN military operation had hurt North 267  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 280 --- Vietnam’ ability to wage war, but had not delivered a smashing blow that altered the military balance fundamentally. The U.S. had not demonstrated a willingness to use enough military force to prevent a North Vietnamese victory. Hanoi may well have believed it could weather the most the U.S. could deliver. By early 1972, the vast majority of American troops had already departed. Furthermore, the U.S. had only 76 jet fighter-bombers based in South Vietnam.*'' To Hanoi, the skeletal forc