er its demands in agreeing to the ceasefire under the Rogers II Plan. Egypt’s objectives for the War o f Attrition were to challenge Israel’s strategic superiority and to bring superpower involvement into process. Egypt’s * ” Israel lost about 260 killed and some 700 wounded. Middle East Record. (1969-1970), 172. 154  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 167 --- strategy was successful in forcing greater superpower involvement, which also helped to diminish Israel’s superiority. O f course the largest step, direct Soviet intervention, was in response to what was arguably an Israeli mistake rather than a direct Egyptian action. Regardless of the mechanism, the Soviets supplied the more advanced weaponry Egypt desired and countered Israel’s military supremacy. In addition, Nasser was correct in his belief that superpower involvement could lead to a better settlement for Egypt. However, the ceasefire to end the War of Attrition was nowhere near what Egypt wanted in the beginning of the war. The ceasefire accord did not return the Sinai nor were the conditions ripe for diplomacy to achieve Israeli withdrawal from the Sinai. The failure of Egypt’s military strategy weakened its bargaining position. In the long run, though, the War of Attrition probably benefitted Egypt slightly more than Israel. Israel forced a closure to the war, but in failing to achieve a decisive victory helped set the stage for Egypt’s success in the 1973 Yom Kippur War. The military balance had been sufficiently altered through Egypt’s rebuilding its armed forces, battle-field experience, and massive Soviet aid to lead to Egypt’s initial triumphs in 1973. Of course, much of this re-equipping and aid would have occurred regardless of whether the War of Attrition was fought as the Soviets would have replenished their client’s ravaged military anyway. In addition, Israel suffered more political losses as a result of superpower pressure than Egypt. 155  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 16