ther depressed enthusiasm for the war in Iran’s largest city and showed the leadership just how restless the populace was. It is critical to remember that the war and the Revolution were intertwined. Khomeini had made the war a battle for the survival of the Revolution itself. A lack o f support for the war also meant a lack o f support for the Revolution. Hence, the collapse o f morale could threaten both the war effort and the Revolution itself. O n the G round By early 1988, Iraq had secured superiority on the ground. Iraq had strengthened its Army to upwards of 1  million men. More importantly, it had expanded its finest units, the Republican Guards, equipped them with the best weaponry, and increased its training regime for the core elements o f the Army. For the first time, the Iraqi Army was acting like a professional, military force that could conduct offensive operations with an appreciable level o f skill.” ® At the same time, Iran’s ground forces were weakening. The most critical factor was the difficulty in obtaining the necessary manpower due to lack o f support and interest in the war. In 1988, Iraq actually put more men on the front line than Iran.” ’ Iran could no longer rely on a quantitative edge and the spirit of the Revolution to fight the Iraqis. Iran’s last hurrah came in March when it made a tactically successful attack in the north. As typical, Iran’s initial gains against an error prone Iraqi unit were soon halted by Iraqi reinforcements. But Iran had 405  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 418 --- committed many o f its best troops, thereby leaving its southern sector less protected.” ® In April Iraq launched a series of offensives that broke the stalemate on the ground. The Iraqis built up an extremely powerful force, including most o f the Republican Guards, along the Al Faw Peninsula.”’ The defending Iranians, less than 10,000 all told, were probably outnumbered at least 6 toi.  They did not have a chance against the heavily armed