ure o f the Straits as a threat to its vital interests.®* Iran’s constrained reaction proved correct as none of the Western powers intervened at this point. However, even the limited Iranian reprisals led the Gulf states and the Western powers to increase their support of Iraq. Iraq intensified the Tanker War again in August 1985. This was probably prompted by an Iranian offensive in March 1985 which had caused heavy Iraqi casualties. More concentrated and determined raids throughout the fall inflicted heavy damage to Kharg Island.*” Although Iran successfully brought other oil terminals on line, it still suffered a decrease in oil exports. The world-wide surplus o f oil did not help matters. Additionally, the Iraqi operations had increased the cost to Iran of exporting oil. The shuttle service and developing other sites cost a considerable amount of money and resources that could be better spent elsewhere in a war-stressed economy. And the increase in the shipping insurance rates forced Iran to lower its oil prices to entice foreign buyers.*' Iraq also initiated the War of the Cities to increase the pressure on Iran. Actually, Iraq had launched ballistic missiles at Iranian cities since soon after the war began. In 1980 and 1981, Iraq launched approximately 64 missiles, mainly FROG-7s. These Soviet made missiles had only a short range, 60 kilometers, and were highly inaccurate (it even missed entire cities).*’ Thus, Iraq could not target the most important urban areas deep within Iran and the small numbers o f missiles 385  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 398 --- barely affected the border cities. Iraq continued the sporadic attacks in 1982, 1983, and 1984 while replacing the FROGs with SCUDs, a more sophisticated and larger Soviet missile. The total number of attacks were still low, only about 35 Iraqi missiles in all of 1983, with negligible effect.”  Iraq did not press home the urban attacks in an attempt to exact a significant amount of compellent lev