ion of the territorial status quo in Europe, and to sign an arms control agreement to slow the spiraling costs of the arms race.’' 264  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 277 --- Detente’s impact on the Vietnam conflict grew slowly.™ Neither China or the Soviet Union was prepared to abandon North Vietnam. Nevertheless, North Vietnam realized that it was growing increasingly isolated politically. Indeed, Hanoi was very upset over China’s invitation to Nixon.™ China and the Soviet Union had made the decision that detente with the U.S. was worth more than a North Vietnamese victory. This would pay dividends during 1972. Linebacker I Between 1968 and 1972, the situation on the ground in Vietnam had actually changed dramatically. By January 1972, U.S. troops no longer patrolled the countryside and only 133,200 Americans remained, mostly in support roles (70,000 more would be gone by May 1972).™ Only the Americans advisers assigned to the ARVN still saw continual action. Thus, the most powerful ground force had been removed. Vietnamization had increased the South Vietnamese armed forces to over 1  million men, supported by hundreds o f tanks, even more artillery, and large amounts of supplies and ammunition. While powerful on paper, this force had severe problems. Approximately half of the 1  million were regional and territorial forces of decidedly mixed combat capability with little mobility and able to handle only small enemy forces. Moreover, the regular army was plagued with poor morale, mostly incompetent leadership, too many political rather than professional officers, a convoluted command system, inadequate training, corruption, and other maladies which resulted in a much less than fearsome fighting machine.’® 265  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 278 --- Surprisingly, the situation was not a total disaster. More of the countryside was safer and under South Vietnamese control than prior to 1968.™ Much of this resulted from a weakening of the VC and