ld have done the same. However, the Israeli 426  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 439 --- government chose objectives beyond the reach of air power, while limiting the lA F’s available strategies. An excellent air force can only do so much to overcome a deficient strategy. The problem may also lie in the execution. During the Iran- Iraq War, Iraq had the opportunity to apply significant compellent pressure via attacks on Iran’s oil infrastructure. However, Iraq never pressed its advantage: a military option existed, but was never utilized. Likewise, a well-planned and executed military option plays a major role in the success o f the overall coercive diplomacy and/or compellent operation by pressuring the targeting state and fortifying the compeller’s credibility. The U.S. coercive pressure, and hence the effort, against Libya primarily hinged on the bombing strike. Although the Reagan Administration did not plan this action to be the only pressure on Libya, it was by far the most dramatic. A failed bombing strike would have seriously impeded the effort to compel Libya to moderate its behavior. Instead o f bombing some meaningless targets which would have little affected Qaddafi, the U.S. chose targets that directly and personally affected him. Moreover, the execution of the strike was adequate for the task. Although not every bomb hit its target, enough did to demonstrate the capability o f the U.S. Air Force and Navy. Likewise, the two 1972 Linebacker campaigns o f the Vietnam War were both well conceived and well executed and fit into the overall U.S. compellence effort. Air power was called upon to achieve objectives within its reach and was executed more than adequately. Not surprisingly, the Linebacker campaigns generated sufficient leverage to achieve compellence. 427  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 440 --- Thus, it is critical to have a credible military option that can place sufficient pressure tailored to the particular coercive diploma