df --- Page 330 --- Front for the Liberation of Palestine, the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, and the Abu Nidal Organization, to European separatists, such as the Irish Republican Army and the Basque ETA. He has even bankrolled Filipino insurgents. It is important to recognize that Qaddafi’s power is derived only through the continued support of the Libyan military. He is not universally popular with the Libyan people or even his own armed forces and has survived numerous assassination and coup attempts." Therefore, he is obsessed with extinguishing dissent, both internal and external. Many terrorist acts aboard are aimed at eliminating those who oppose his regime. The frequent assassinations of Libyan exiles throughout the Middle East and Europe has created friction with those states.'^ The surge in oil prices after the 1973 embargo provided Qaddafi the financial power to transform his lethargic desert state into a major troublemaker. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, Libya became one of the most militarized states, with the Soviets supplying a majority of the equipment. Indeed, the build-up vastly exceeded the Libyan military’s ability to absorb the equipment and much of 318  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 331 --- it remained crated in warehouses. With money and weapons, Qaddafi attempted to convert his goals into reality. He has shown a willingness to use direct military force against weaker opponents, for example, Chad. Against more powerful foes he resorted to terrorism and subversion.''* During the 1970s and 1980s Libya became a destabilizing force in Northern Africa and the Middle East. Qaddafi’s objectives vis-a-vis the United States during the 1970s and 1980s concentrated on weakening American influence in the Middle East. Also, by knocking down a superpower, Libya would invariably bolster its Third World status as well. Unable to match the United States’ military, economic or political power in a direct confrontation, Qad