uickly discovered the difficulties in formulating a Vietnam strategy. Nixon and Kissinger were the most important figures in this administration’s foreign policy. Suspicious of the State Department, among many other groups, these two men ran the U.S. foreign policy toward 249  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 262 --- Vietnam. Any discussion o f the Nixon administration’s conduct in Vietnam rests almost entirely on their objectives and beliefs.® Nixon and Kissinger did not have unlimited options with which to create a Vietnam strategy. Instead, Nixon and Kissinger tailored their objectives to the available strategies and circumstances in Vietnam. Their strategy did not really coalesce until the summer of 1969 when Vietnamization was officially announced as U.S. policy.''* Nixon and Kissinger’s first problem was to determine their objectives. The domestic outcry in the U.S. caused by the 1968 Tet Offensive forced a réévaluation of the war. Although the rest o f 1968 featured the heaviest fighting by U.S. ground forces during the entire conflict, U.S. policy had shifted to withdrawal.'^ Johnson had also ended the bombing o f North Vietnam in October 1968. Reversing the policy o f de-escalation would be difficult due to domestic opposition. Although Nixon believed an outright military victory was more possible than Kissinger, both ®  Even before Nixon was inaugurated, Kissinger commissioned his staff to create a comprehensive list o f options. The product, ranging from A-Z, ran the spectrum from complete military victory to swift withdrawal (both extremes were quickly discarded). This paper was turned into NSSM-1 and was debated in truncated form in a NSC meeting early in the administration. However, the value o f the memorandum and the discussion was minimal; it was window dressing. Nixon and Kissinger alone would decide the course o f action in Vietnam, they simply needed to go through the motions. Kissinger had already outlined what essentially became U.S. s