January and the substantive talks on 8 January. Hanoi quickly agreed. Therefore, Nixon decided the last day of Linebacker II would be 29 December.'®® Overall, the bombing 291  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 304 --- lasted eleven days, 18 to 29 December 1972/ B-52s flew 729 sorties and dropped 15,000 tons of bombs on 34 targets.'®’ Air Force and Navy fighter-bombers contributed another 5,000 tons o f ordnance, including numerous highly successful laser guided-bomb attacks.'®* On 8 January, Kissinger met with Hanoi’s representative in Paris. Clearly, both sides now wanted it over with because it took only four days o f negotiation to finalize the agreement. There were few changes to the October agreement, mostly minor and both sides compromised.'®”  But just as importantly, Nixon and Kissinger decided not to press for anything substantial concessions from North Vietnam.'' They wanted the treaty done before the inauguration.'®” After unofficially agreeing to the treaty with North Vietnam, the U.S. still had to get South Vietnam on board. On 16 January, Nixon sent an extremely stern j As per the festive holiday mood, the U.S. halted bombing operations for Christmas Day. Because Kissinger and Nixon wanted the agreement finished by the end of January, they never tested just how much leverage could be gained by Linebacker II. Some, including the noted coimter-insurgency expert Sir Robert Thompson argued, that if Linebacker II had continued, the U.S. could have gotten additional concessions from North Vietnam. Clearly, North Vietnam was vulnerable to further bombing. But this still leaves the questions o f how much Hanoi would tolerate and been willing to give up, could the bombing continue to exert pressure as targets dwindled, and would Congress have shut down the bombing in early January? The U.S. may have gotten some additional concessions, but it could never have forced North Vietnam to give up its goal o f unification. Regardless of how much damage U.S. bom