lence.pdf --- Page 497 --- Korean Peninsula and to establish itself as an important actor in the international community/ But the combined UN forces proved too strong for China’s lightly armed infantry army to defeat completely. By the summer o f 1951, the Chinese government apparently decided that seizing all of Korea was no longer feasible and would settle for a settlement at the pre-war dividing line.’ China had suffered enormous casualties during the fighting and still had the Chinese Nationalist forces on Taiwan to worry about (and possibly conquer).® Consequently, the ground war developed into a trench-style battle over mountainous terrain in which neither side launched large-scale offensives and little land was gained or lost (although casualties continued to mount).’ In July 1951, the armistice talks began, but progress was slow. Communist intransigence and lack o f interest in a quick settlement, and not a little UN stubbornness and suspicion, kept the talks at a snail’s p ace/’ The U.S. was surprised by the slow progress and after already eschewing further major ground offensives turned to air power to exert pressure on the Communists. The first attempt was an interdiction campaign known as Operation Strangle that began in July 1951. The primary emphasis of Operation Strangle was military. American bombers were to cut the Chinese supply routes by destroying North Korea’s transportation network and material moving along it. This would prevent China from launching another ground offensive and secondarily, deliver pain via destruction of infrastructure and materials, killing personnel, and diverting resources. The U.S. hoped this could exert sufficient compellent leverage. Thus, 485  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 498 --- Operation Strangle was similar to Rolling Thunder o f the Vietnam War; a mainly interdiction effort to deny military capability and deliver punishment to the Communists. The most ardent supporters o f air power believed that Opera