ives, strategic bombing nevertheless contributed to the overall success of retaking Kuwait and eliminating Iraq’s offensive capability. The strategic bombing campaign was most effective as a military denial mechanism. Warden’s ideas worked as advertised. The U.S. objectives were perfectly suited for a military denial strategy and the conditions of the conflict could not be better constructed for parallel warfare. The U.S. chose the proper strategy to match the given objectives and executed it more than adequately. No other strategic bombing campaign was as destructive over a shorter period o f time. The seemingly overwhelming victory has been tarnished by further analysis. Poor ground strategy diminished the extent o f the destruction to the Iraqi Army. Instead o f cutting off the entire Iraqi force, the Coalition simply pushed many of the retreating units further into Iraq. And the methodical pace o f the VII Corps allowed many o f the Iraqis to escape, including a number of Republican Guards divisions. 506  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 519 --- Indeed, it may have exerted enough leverage to compel Hussein to withdraw nearly unconditionally from Kuwait. But because the U.S.’ objectives including the destruction of the Iraqi Army, air power was inherently constrained from "winning" this war. The Iraqi SCUD Attacks This conflict also featured another Iraqi missile campaign. Like the Iran- Iraq War, surface-to-to ballistic missiles generated some compellent leverage. The pressure was nearly enough to achieve Hussein’s objective o f forcing an Israeli retaliation. Yet unlike the Iran-Iraq War, the missiles were not sufficient to change the course o f the war. The SCUD was too inaccurate to be a military threat. Instead, it was a psychological weapon, meant to sow terror among the populace. Hussein predicted that SCUDs falling on Israeli cities would panic the population and force Israel to retaliate. Hussein hoped the Arab members o f the Coalition would no