r failings and the unlikelihood of any future success. The Clifford Task Force’s final memo to Johnson deferred the decision on the troop increases and discussed various escalation options for Rolling Thunder. More importantly, Clifford learned the war was not going as well as it was portrayed and the military had no specific answers as how to win the war. Consequently, he quickly became disillusioned with the war and set out to convince Johnson o f its bankruptcy.'"" By early March, Clifford and Secretary o f State Dean Rusk proposed to Johnson a curtailing of bombing in the DRV north of the 20th parallel (the northern, most populated, half Interestingly, the North Vietnamese probably did not fully realize the potential psychological impact in the U.S.; they were fixated on the general uprising in South Vietnam. 220  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 233 --- the country). Actually, the weather predictions for North Vietnam were so bad -it was the monsoon season- few missions could be flown anyway. Hanoi hopefully would respond in some positive manner either with reciprocating de-escalation or initiating peace talks.'"' Before Johnson made a final decision on the troop request, the issue was leaked to the public. A large public outcry rang out against any escalation. A few days later, in the New Hampshire Presidential primary, Eugene McCarthy, a candidate whose platform consisted of ending the bombing and finding a peaceful solution to the war, nearly defeated Johnson. Faced with such a large domestic condemnation and many distinguished and trusted advisers (both within and outside the administration) beginning to turn on the war, Johnson swayed. On 31 March 1968, Johnson announced that he would not seek another term, that Rolling Thunder would be limited to southern portions of North Vietnam, and he asked for negotiations to begin.'"’ Initially, Rolling Thunder was limited to the DRV south of the 20th parallel. This was soon changed to the 19th parallel.'""