oercion from abstract theory into policy is also important because it further describes how the bargaining factors manifest themselves in actual conflicts. George became interested in the subject during the Vietnam War when the idea that a deficient military strategy, gradual escalation, was the cause o f the U.S.’ early failure. George believed there was much more behind the U.S. failure in 1965, particularly political and diplomatic considerations. In response, he developed an alternative explanation to the Vietnam War. And in doing so also substantially expanded the hereto limited literature on coercive persuasion.'"*® George and his co-authors defined coercive diplomacy as "a defensive strategy that is employed to deal with efforts of an adversary to change a status quo situation in his own favor".'"*’ Coercive diplomacy is more limited than coercion, by virtue o f its strictly defensive nature and stress on persuasion rather than force. 77  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 90 --- George, et al., identified three types of coercive diplomacy; A) persuading an opponent to stop short of goal, B) persuading an opponent to undo an action, and C) persuading an opponent to make changes in government. They set coercive diplomacy apart from three other strategies of using military force, 1) quick, decisive, 2) attrition (both being forms of the traditional military strategy), and 3) test of capabilities within very restrictive ground rules, because coercive diplomacy aims to affect the enemy’s will rather than destroy, or neutralize, his military. Indeed, George envisioned coercive diplomacy as an alternative to military strategy.'"*® After constructing an abstract model of coercive diplomacy, George, et al., examined numerous historical examples. These analysts concluded coercive diplomacy is highly contextual and surmised that its complexity rendered it difficult to operationalize and execute successfully. Nevertheless, they discovered a set of conditions whic