tiations. On 8 April, the DRV issued "The Four Points," its basic position for a negotiated settlement. It called for the withdrawal of all American forces from South Vietnam and a halt to the bombing. Importantly, it also called for reunification of Vietnam, with the NLF policies guiding the south. This demonstrated North Vietnam’s insistence on keeping political and military issues together. The goal of North 186  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 199 --- Vietnam in any settlement was not just the withdrawal o f American forces, but the reunification o f Vietnam/* The failure of the Geneva Accords weighed heavily in the minds o f the North Vietnamese/"* In fact, the inseparability o f military and political issues would continue until the fall of 1972. Meanwhile, in Washington, optimism that bombing could compel North Vietnam was waning. Johnson’s top advisers met in late April to review U.S. strategy in Vietnam. They decided to downgrade Rolling Thunder’s importance in favor of a more balanced overall strategy o f denying victory.** The increased emphasis on the ground war was the start o f the shift to a much larger American commitment and the attrition strategy. Robert McNamara signified the change by writing, "a settlement will come as much or more from VC failure in the South as DRV pain in the North."*® Now, it was critical to persuade the North through denying victory in South Vietnam.*’ The idea o f using an economic infrastructure bombing strategy was still deemed too likely to engender a Chinese or Soviet reaction. Moreover, there was a concern that if the U.S. bombed the entire target list immediately and the DRV refused to negotiate, the U.S. would lose the leverage o f future bombing.** Consequently, Rolling Thunder shifted to more o f an interdiction strategy to reduce the amount o f men and supplies heading south. But the belief that the bombings could yield political gains had not been discarded. Rolling Thunder still inflicted pain on Nort