th Vietnam with the introduction of U.S. ground forces to prevent a VC victory."*® Air power would then inflict pain on North Vietnam to induce negotiations while ground power stabilized the situation."*’ President Johnson had come to conclusion that bombing was the best option to pressure North Vietnam. The recent Viet Cong attacks provided an opportunity to implement the bombings while blaming the other side’s provocations. On 13 February, Johnson formally approved the bombing campaign known as Rolling Thunder."*® 185  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 198 --- Initial Rolling Thunder Efforts The first Rolling Thunder strike took place on 2 March 1965, hitting a naval base and an ammunition storage depot in southern D R V /’ Throughout March, the bombing slowly, and haphazardly, moved northward hitting military installations such as barracks, supply depots, and radar sites/® Bombing strikes in March were not significant enough to reduce DRV military capability, nor were they designed to shatter its will. Instead, Rolling Thunder was intended to demonstrate U.S. resolve and ability to bomb in addition to implicitly threatening further punishment. At this time, air power was the primary U.S. compellent force as U.S. ground strength in South Vietnam was minimal, only two Marine battalions. This effort culminated in early April with attacks on several bridges much closer to Hanoi than previous strikes.*' Washington believed this would show the escalating nature of the strikes. Meanwhile, Johnson supplied the "carrot" of coercive diplomacy. On 7 April, he publically suggested negotiations and a massive economic development program for Vietnam, but warned that the U.S. would use military force if necessary.** However, North Vietnam showed no interest in entering negotiations. On 8 April, the DRV issued "The Four Points," its basic position for a negotiated settlement. It called for the withdrawal of all American forces from South Vietnam and a halt to the bombing