eaction, except for Syria and South Yemen, was also lukewarm at best. The requisite public condemnations were made, but in private there was a surprising amount of support for the attack. There was no widespread anti-American backlash and Qaddafi did not become an Arab hero. Indeed, his isolation from the rest of the Arab world was made painfully obvious.®* Qaddafi received more support from the non-Arabic Third World states. In the United Nations Security Council, Great Britain, France, and the U.S. vetoed a resolution denouncing the American strike. However, the General Assembly passed a resolution condemning the raid, albeit with a high abstention rate. But Qaddafi apparently did not receive much more than words o f support. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) refused a Libya request for an oil embargo against the United States, instead opting for a condemnation.®® The Western Europeans were highly critical of the raid. Although most of the governments tended to be reserved in their criticisms, their populations often were not. Many people were horrified by the bombing, believing it would have little positive effect and would goad more retaliatory terrorist acts. The more vitriolic opponents questioned its morality and legality.*”  Ironically, the raid 343  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 356 --- galvanized the Europeans into action against Libya, partially due to an acknowledgement of the problem and partially in an attempt to forestall further American military actions.®' Although they still rejected significant economic sanctions, political and diplomatic sanctions were soon enacted, the most prominent being the expulsion of hundreds o f Libyan diplomats from Europe.*® At their summit in May 1986, the G-7 countries decided not to export arms to any state that sponsored terrorism, reduce the diplomatic missions of states that sponsored terrorism and took measures to improve cooperation between the G-7 state’s intelligence, securit