: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 510 --- The Persian Gulf War, 1991 The Persian Gulf is a highly interesting case, but there was less room for compellence than commonly thought because the U.S.’ objectives were to retake Kuwait and destroy much of the Iraqi Army. The U.S. was not interested in a compromise that reclaimed Kuwait but left the Iraqi Army intact; the U.S. needed to finish the military campaign to achieve its objectives. Thus, air power could not achieve the U.S.’ objectives independently. It is also difficult to determine how much compellent leverage the strategic bombing operation generated prior to the ground war. The Coalition’s aerial campaign, based on Col. John Warden’s five- ring strategy theory (a form of parallel warfare) inflicted considerable damage to Iraq’s capability to wage war and undermined Iraq’s ability to hold territory. Iraq seemed to make concessions just prior to the ground war, but with little information regarding the Iraqi government’s (more importantly Saddam Hussein’s) intentions and motivations, it is impossible to ascertain precisely to what degree air power affected Iraq. The conflict began on 2 August 1990 when Iraq invaded Kuwait. Hussein wanted to annex Kuwait to enhance Iraq’s financial, geographic, and political power, in addition to boosting his domestic and international prestige. Iraq would benefit greatly from Kuwait’s vast oil reserves, especially still being heavily in debt from the Iran-Iraq War, as well as gaining better access to the Persian Gulf via Kuwaiti ports. Iraq would also move closer to becoming the dominant regional power. Throughout the conflict, Hussein’s objective apparently was to hold onto 498  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 511 --- Kuwait until faced with a significant threat to his personal power. While he probably wanted to avoid a war, Hussein wanted to keep any fighting as short as possible, being optimistic that the Iraqi Army’s defenses could exact heavy casualties and fo