gaining and punishment idea has been the foundation for a number strategic bombing operations, including some before the civilian intellectuals began their 88  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 101 --- work. Although a state may plan for a bargaining strategy, targets must still be selected. When executed, bargaining strategies tend to hit the same targets as prescribed by the above-mentioned air power theories. For example, to inflict punishment, industries may be struck in a manner that resembles Mitchell’s ideas. In addition, much of the pulverization strategy is based on the assumption that aerial bombing can inflict an intolerable amount of punishment. The attack on Dresden was clearly part of Douhet’s strategy of city-busting. Yet, an underlying reason for the attack was to strike a shattering blow to the German psyche. In other words, wreak a shockingly unacceptable amount of punishment to coerce a surrender; clearly shades of Schelling. Thus, the air power strategies and bargaining philosophies can merge. Nevertheless, it is possible to distinguish a separate strategy based on the civilian intellectuals’ principles. This should be called the punishment strategy. It is distinct primarily because the aim of using military power is not to defeat the opposing armed forces, but to inflict punishment and demonstrate resolve sufficiently to force a behavior modification. Thus, the goal is not a complete military victory (i.e. unconditional surrender), which generally means less damage is administered. For example, a pulverization strategy would aim to obliterate numerous cities, while a punishment strategy would inflict some damage on some cities. In addition, the punishment strategy has a wide range of potential targets, ranging from economic and industrial infrastructure, military units, or even city- 89  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 102 --- busting. However, in practice, the punishment strategy often has been directed more toward the civilia