bes_compellence.pdf --- Page 238 --- Thunder may have attained both goals initially, but it success quickly faded. The restraints on Rolling Thunder undermined the attempt to show how far the U.S. was willing to go for an ally. Furthermore, while the bombing did provide a temporary encouragement to the South Vietnamese, it was unable to maintain the boost. Rolling Thunder simply became another routine aspect o f the conflict.Finally, Rolling Thunder became important to the negotiations, but not as the bargaining chip envisioned by the U.S. Failure to Exert Pressure Neither military denial nor punishment exerted much compellent leverage over Hanoi. Undoubtedly, Hanoi wanted Rolling Thunder to cease, but was not driven to concede to U.S. demands for settlement. Much of the problem with Rolling Thunder lies in the fact that military denial could not prevent the Communists from conducting guerilla/attritional warfare and the punishment it delivered was not specifically tailored to sway North Vietnam’s leaders. It is worthwhile to first look at the problems facing military denial. Most of Rolling Thunder was devoted to interdicting the supply lines heading south. Initiated in the earliest strikes, attacks on the transportation system continued until November 1968. Assuming that most of the war material came through North Vietnam, interdiction was a correct strategy to pursue. Unfortunately, the transportation system was not particularly vulnerable to bombing. 226  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 239 --- It is important to gauge aerial interdiction as attritional rather than absolute. Any attempt to sever land-based lines of communication can never totally cut off the flow of men and materials. Nevertheless, Rolling Thunder still failed to attrit enough to have a significant effect.'®' In fact, the infiltration o f men actually increased from 35,000 in 1965 to 90,000 in 1967.'®’ Moreover, even with Rolling Thunder, North Vietnam was able to send enough men and s