homeland, the Iranians had little chance. A series of Iranian offensives in 1982 to 1984, ranging from the southern to northern fronts, failed miserably.”  By 1983, Iran’s total war losses were estimated to be 180,000 killed and probably twice as many wounded for no significant territorial gains.”  Even on the defensive, Iraq total war losses were now approximately 65,000 killed, 200,000 wounded, and lost some 50,000 prisoners.’" Although Iraq had defeated Iran’s offensives, the losses were beginning to mount putting pressure on Hussein. Iran then shifted to a strategy o f attrition from 1984 to 1986. The massive, frontal assaults had just been too costly. The ground war settled into low-intensity attrition, punctuated by a occasional Iranian offensive, none approaching the pre- 1984 size. During the biggest one, in March 1985, concerned Hussein due to its initial success, but it too was eventually repulsed.’*  Iran’s bid to invade Iraq and overwhelm Hussein had failed. But the air and sea war were beginning to heat up. Iraq Shifts to Strategic Bombing This phase marked the beginning o f the Tanker War and the War o f the Cities, in which Iraq struck countervalue targets to compel Iran to end the war, or at least to reduce the intensity o f the ground war. The pressure from Iran’s ground war was too much for Iraq. Hussein decided to demonstrate that Iraq could undermine Iran’s financial foundations and morale needed to prosecute the war. 379  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 392 --- Attacking Iran’s oil export capability would weaken the financial support and attacking the cities would drain civilian morale crucial to maintaining the military’s strength. A general pattern emerged during this period; Iraq would escalate with countervalue operation after each Iranian offensive, but due to political and military constraints it was never enough to be the final, overwhelming blow to Iran. Overall, it was a classic punishment strategy to inflict some pain, with t