upport o f the war. The most potent applieation would have been economic warfare aimed at disrupting Iran’s oil production. Revenues generated from oil exportation were critical to Iran’s economy, comprising 80% o f government revenues and 90% o f foreign-exchange earnings.^' One argue that attacking Iran’s oil exports would not have made a significant difference. Admittedly, Iran’s oil production had already declined by one-half due to turmoil surrounding the Revolution. Moreover, the revolutionaries proudly emphasized the self-reliance and sufficiency caused by Iran’s ostracization from the international community. Even so, the loss o f even more oil revenue would hurt the economy severely and make it difficult for Iran to continue the war. Iran needed foreign exchange to purchase the few weapons and military spare parts it could procure as well as needed industrial machinery and products. As Iran’s economic strength diminished, it would be forced to rely more and more on poorly armed infantry forces, the domestic economy would disintegrate, and the population’s morale would suffer. Even without the aerial 366  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 379 --- attack, Iran’s economy was in bad shape after a few years of war, suffering over 50% inflation, fuel and food rationing, with little economic investment in areas other than the military, arms industries, and repairing/constructing oil facilities.” Strategic bombing could disrupt Iran oil industry by attacking the production and/or the exporting facilities. Prior to the war Iran had relocated much of its oil export capability away from the more exposed Abadan and Khorramshahr facilities to Kharg Island. Ninety percent of Iran’s oil was exported through Kharg Island. Although at the edge of Iraqi aircraft range in 1980, Kharg Island was still vulnerable to attack as were important oil pumping stations on the mainland. Iraq could also attack the tankers at sea to interdict the oil exports.^ In addition, Iraqi p