e psychological affect. Linebacker II struck many targets within Hanoi and Haiphong that were previously off limits. Nixon initially authorized only a three day campaign, beginning on 18 December.'®” But after three days and seeing no positive move by the North Vietnamese, he extended 290  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 303 --- it. Contrary to some perceptions, there was no carpet bombing o f Hanoi and Haiphong. Instead, there was only limited collateral damage and civilian casualties were light.'®' Although Linebacker II is commonly accepted as a B-52 operation against Hanoi and Haiphong, many o f the B-52 sorties were not aimed at these cities. Most of their strikes concentrated on railyards and storage depots throughout northern North Vietnam. B-52s were very effective in bombing area targets such as railyards and storage depots, but were overkill for smaller point targets. Actually, fighter-bombers, such as F-4s, F-lIIs,  and A-7s were used extensively to bomb targets within Hanoi and Haiphong. In addition to defense suppression, they relied heavily on laser guided bombs to strike radio communications facilities, power plants, smaller warehouses and military depots, and bridges that were often in, or near, civilian areas.'®’ B-52s were the cautiously used bludgeon, but fighter bombers were the ever-present rapier. On 22 December, Nixon cabled Hanoi requesting talks on 3 January in exchange for a suspension of Linebacker II. He received no response, so he ordered a massive bombing operation for 26 December.'®® On this night 120 B- 52s struck Hanoi and Haiphong, the largest single concentration during Linebacker 11.'®" On 26 December, Hanoi sent word that it was willing to resume negotiations on 8 January 1972.'®® Nixon wanted technical talks to start on 2 January and the substantive talks on 8 January. Hanoi quickly agreed. Therefore, Nixon decided the last day of Linebacker II would be 29 December.'®® Overall, the bombing 291  File: --- klubes_compell