curate evaluations, and often make decisions based on internal factors.'®** It is important to bear in mind that decision making is a complex operation which is highly contextual and sometimes plays a significant role in determining the outcome of coercion/compellence. Finally, Something on Strategic Bombing and Coercion Clearly, the coercion/compellence literature needs more examinations of conventional military strategies. George recognized the need for usable military ^  This simplification is not confined solely to the bargaining/coercion researchers. Other fields of inquiry do the same. 79  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 92 --- options and o f specifically tailoring military force to the desired objectives. But he does not contemplate how such military strategies would look. He basically extended, but simplified, Schelling’s concept of using military force as a bargaining tool rather than a conquering tool. Synder and Diesing limit their military analysis to peacetime comparisons of relative military strength. In other words, it is critical to be perceived as having the most and/or the best military power. But that military power does not actually have to be used.'®' The civilian strategic analysts conducted little exploration into the dynamics o f how and why military strategy can affect coercion/compellence. However, one political scientist, Robert Pape, Jr, has recently addressed the subject of air power and coercion.'®’ Pape’s work is important because it demonstrates how particular strategic bombing strategies can have a significant effect on the success or failure o f coercion.^ His basic assumption was that coercion with conventional weaponry is a product of successful military strategy. He contended the best way to achieve coercion with air power (via its most common application, strategic bombing) is to employ a strategy o f military denial by exploiting the targeted state’s military vulnerability. Accordingly, if the victim state can be den