ded to inflict pain by disrupting food production and to show there was a cost for continuing the war. The military benefit was that Korean rice fed the communist soldiers that China or the Soviet Union would have to replace.'^ This operation was an execution of the shock strategy because it was a limited operation designed to generate compellent leverage from its immediate damage. However, it also contained elements of the punishment strategy as it was part of the U.S. government’s general policy of threatening escalation to achieve a settlement. For example, Eisenhower had implicitly threatened to use nuclear weapons to break the deadlock recently. Thus, the U.S. hoped that if China’s leaders did not accept a ceasefire immediately, they would understand the U.S. might shift to other targets. 490  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 503 --- The operation damaged or destroyed five of North Korea’s 20 most important dams. North Korea quickly lowered the water level behind the remaining dams to lessen the chance o f their destruction (the less water the less pressure to burst a bomb-damaged dam). Besides depriving rice fields, the water loosened by the destroyed dams flooded large areas and washed out railroads, bridges and roads. Dropping the water levels at other impoundments may have saved the dams, but it also deprived rice fields of required water. The operation ended when the U.S. Air Force realized that the lowering o f water meant the dams were much harder to destroy and a breakthrough occurred in the armistice talks.” The armistice was signed in July 1953, after the Communists’ agreed to a new U.S. proposal for settling the POW problem. The U.S. Air Force claimed the irrigation dam attacks forced the Communists’  to make concessions. Another prominent explanation is Eisenhower’s implied threat of using nuclear weapons convinced the Communists to break the deadlock. However, the most probable explanation is that a convergence of many political and milita