ng. The North Vietnamese Army, which was more heavily mechanized and modernized, had taken over the fight. Strategic bombing had a greater influence against this type o f army, since it relied on considerably more supplies and resources. Moreover, the political situation had changed (Soviet-Chinese split among other things) and the American objectives were more limited. These circumstances led to the success of Linebacker I and II. But substituting Linebacker for Rolling Thunder would not have achieved much because the conditions were so vastly different. Clodfelter’s work is important because he concludes strategic bombing is dependent not just on the particular targeting strategy, but also how that strategy relates to the opponent, his armed forces, the desired political objectives, and the entire political-military environment enveloping the conflict. However, Clodfelter confined his analysis to the Vietnam War. He does not create theory or apply these observations to other examples.'^' Earl Tilford’s analysis of the strategic bombing campaigns during the Vietnam War is similar to Clodfelter’s .T ilfo rd  refutes the notions that Rolling 68  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 81 --- Thunder failed due to gradualism, Washington micro-management, or an anti-war press. Instead, the inherent flaws in the Air Force’s basic doctrine and strategy in Vietnam doomed the bombing. The Air Force was simply unable to construct a strategy that accounted for the unique situation of Vietnam. Tilford stressed the stagnation of the Air Force doctrine which emphasized attacking industrial and economic targets to negate the capability o f an opponent to wage war. Adopting this concept as the basic tenet of Rolling Thunder all but ensured its failure for this emphasis had little connection with the realities of the ongoing conflict. The Linebacker campaigns fared much better, especially Linebacker I, because the military and political situation had changed. Most importantly, t