ly very limited access to the sea, with the Shatt al-Arab being the primary access, thus creating a deep sense of vulnerability.® Furthermore, Iran supported Kurdish separatists in Iraq to weaken its neighboring rival. This insurgency led to a civil war in 1974-5 and was a major *  There are a number of ways to spell Shi‘ite, including Shia and Shi’i. I choose to use Shi'ite. ®  The thalweg is the midpoint of the navigable channel. This is not the same as the geographical midpoint. 358  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 371 --- drain on Iraq. In exchange for Iran abandoning support for the Kurds, Iraq reluctantly accepted the thalweg boundary for the Shatt al-Arab in the 1975 Algiers Agreement.® This agreement ratified Iranian domination and was a severe psychological blow to Iraq. The bitterness and humiliation felt by Iraq over this agreement should not be underestimated. However, for the moment, the Algiers Agreement marked a reconciliation and a period of quiescent relations. The fall of the Shah in February 1979 and the emergence o f an Islamic revolutionary Iran led by Ayatollah Rouhollah Khomeini exacerbated many underlying tensions between Iran and Iraq. Khomeini soon began to exhort all Shi'ite to establish Islamic republics throughout the Middle East. Iraq, with a secular, nationalistic government aiming to create a united pan-Arab, not pan- Islamic nation, was anathema to Khomeini.® Unlike the Shah, revolutionary Iran seemed to desire the fall of the Ba'ath party rather than simply achieving Iranian dominance. Consequently, Iran began to support Iraq’s underground Shi'ite movements and the Kurdish rebels again.'” Although Khomeini overestimated the ability and willingness o f the Shi'ite majority in Iraq to overthrow its minority Sunni Ba'ath leaders, his exhortations made the leader o f Iraq, Saddam Hussein, perceive a threat from his neighbor." The interference in Iraq’s internal affairs was a major reason as to why Hussein decided to invade Ira