est o f 1969 were quite successful. The lAF swept aside Egypt’s air defense system, destroying or neutralizing the SAMs and hounding the Egyptian Air Force from the air. By December, Israel had complete air superiority over most of Egypt. The lAF also administered a terrific pounding to Egyptian army positions along the Canal. Egyptian casualties mounted and the damage to equipment was severe.®' One estimate pegged the number of Egyptian casualties as 30,000 from June 1967 to January 1970, with many coming in the latter half of 1969.®’ A sharp decrease in the number o f Egyptian artillery attacks during the fall o f 1969 indicated the lA F’s success.®® Moreover, the number of Israeli casualties decreased from a high of 106 in July to 30 in December.®" While the Israeli population was deeply concerned with the number of casualties, the declining rate was encouraging. Thus, 131  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 144 --- Israel had little motivation to withdraw from the Sinai on its terms, let alone Egypt’s terms. Meanwhile, Israeli ground forces registered some speetaeular triumphs. On 9 September, Israeli troops were ferried across the Gulf o f Suez and riding aboard previously captured Egyptian armored vehicles traveled 30 miles to shoot up some very surprised Egyptian units.® ®  The following day a shocked Nasser suffered a heart attack.®® Less than ten days later, he dismissed the military Chief o f Staff, the Commander o f the Navy, and over 50 senior officers.®’ The raid was a vivid example o f the seeming helplessness of the Egyptian military in the hands of the Israeli armed forces. By the end of 1969, Egypt had lost the initiative to the overwhelming Israeli eoimteroffensive and was losing the war. Its strategy for the War o f Attrition had been shattered and the cross-Canal assault was postponed indefinitely. Therefore, Egypt shifted from a tactic o f attrition as a prelude to the cross-Canal assault to a strategy of eontinual attrition.®* Egypt’s pr