on Germany’s oil and transportation systems.'*^ Nonetheless, the leader of the Bomber Command, Sir Arthur Harris, constantly resisted attempts to divert his bombers from city-busting.'’ ®  He dismissed the effectiveness o f selective attacks on oil and transportation, derisively calling them "panaceas".'” In the end, the pressure from the top military and political leadership forced Harris to cut back on city-busting to concentrate on more selective targets. Post-war analysis showed the British area bombing o f cities to be of lesser impact on the course of the war than the Allies had hoped or envisioned. Area bombing inflicted immense destruction, nearly all the 61 major German cities had 50% or more o f their buildup areas destroyed. Many smaller cities also received substantial damage as w ell.'*®  But area bombing was unable to pound Germany into submission because it neither crushed the population’s will to fight nor ruined 43  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 56 --- Germany’s capability to resist. Independent compellence through a Douhet/Trenchard strategy of annihilating cities had failed. It is worthwhile to examine briefly why area bombing failed. Although area bombing killed hundreds of thousands of civilians, it was unable to demoralize the German population or weaken their resolve sufficiently to significantly reduce their contribution to the war. Obviously, morale suffered, but not enough to seriously affect industrial production (at least not until the very end stages of the war) or lead to anti-war riots.'’^  Regardless, the Nazis ran an efficient police state that ensured civilians would "stay in line" and not rebel.®" Furthermore, area bombing’s role in reducing German industrial production was limited. The bombings failed to prevent German workers from working. And surprisingly few industries were destroyed, mainly because most German industries were not centrally located in the cities. Anyway, simply destroying industries in general was n