edibility.®' Consequently, the raid would demonstrate the U.S. government was willing to carry out its strong talk against terrorism. This would send a message to all states that supported terrorists who preyed on American targets. After the disasters in Beirut and the TWA 847 hijacking, the raid would show the United 337  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 350 --- States was not impotent against terrorism. Hopefully, this would discourage other states which supported terrorism, such as Syria and Iran, from allowing their proxies to attack American interests than face the possibility of stern American reactions.®® There was probably little chance that this raid could generate deterrence extending to the individual terrorist or even terrorist groups. Instead, the raid would have a greater chance of deterring states from sponsoring terrorists. By nature, terrorists are highly motivated, typically willing to die for their cause, and often have little to lose. Therefore, it can be difficult to affect their cost-to-benefit balance needed for deterrence to function. On the other hand, governments, even authoritarian dictatorships, recognize that their states have something to lose during confrontations with a considerably more powerful state and would be more susceptible to deterrence (and compellence) pressures. Indeed, the bombing raid clearly threatened Qaddafi and the Libyan state moreso than terrorists in Libya. This probably would not be lost on states such as Iran and Syria.® ® A number of critics and analysts have cited other objectives for the raid. Those most vehemently opposed to the raid contended it was conducted because of machismo and/or Reagan was a dangerous Rambo character who liked to throw 338  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 351 --- around military force.*'* Others claim the primary goal was to kill Qaddafi.'*^ A more optimistic view of the bombing’s potential effectiveness proposed the strike aimed to destroy major elements of Libya’