id not have the same religious fervor or sweeping nationalism.*" For Iran to continue prosecuting the war, it was critical to keep morale high to maintain the steady supply of men needed to fight and die. Nevertheless, Iran was never able to exploit its manpower advantage fully due to haphazard and incomplete mobilization. Additionally, enlistments, generally only for one offensive 375  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 388 --- for the masses, were too short a period to develop expert soldiers.** The Revolutionaries’  belief that Islamic spirit could overcome all obstacles on the battlefield was just as naive and inaccurate as the French Generals’ belief that the ‘elan of their fighting troops could sweep over German machine guns in the trenches during World War I. This full adoption o f the objective of overthrowing Hussein greatly affected the course o f the war. To accomplish this, Iran would have to achieve a decisive military victory and/or force a domestic collapse in Iraq much like Germany in World War I. A political or domestic collapse due to a stunning military defeat was always a possibility as Iraq was a hodgepodge state o f conflicting nationalities.*’  But Iran simply could not achieve a decisive military victory. A successful large scale invasion required military expertise and power beyond what Iran could muster. Fanatical determination and willingness to suffer enormous casualties were not sufficient to overcome powerful defenses, heavy firepower, and increasingly competent Iraqi forces. Just as importantly, it was becoming increasingly difficult for Iran to compromise after publicly announcing a lofty objective. Khomeini himself had led the calls for the fall of Hussein and the Ba‘ath party in the name of the Revolution. *  Khomenei believed that the Iraqi Shi‘ites were primed and ready to overthrow the secular and Sunni Ba‘athists. Iran would apply the external pressure and the Iraqi Shi‘ites the internal pressure necessary to topple Husse