confidence in the U.S. military’s ability to inflict substantial damage to the oil infrastructure with just one raid.® ®  Of course, the presence o f thousands o f foreign workers in the oil fields was a problem. The potential for injuring some of them was high, which would cause an awkward political situation. Another targeting possibility was Libyan military bases, such as barracks and operation centers. Striking the Libyan military would damage Qaddafi’s domestic standing and might weaken his ability to defend his regime against coups and insurrections. But again, a strike focusing on the Libyan military was rejected 334  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 347 --- because it could not be clearly and directly tied to terrorism/®® Some military targets were eventually struck, but those that were could be linked to terrorism, i.e. the Tripoli Airfield, had dual terrorist/Libyan military use, the Jamahiriyah Barracks, or were part of the air defense system that could threaten the raiding planes. The U.S. instead decided to attack terrorist related targets. But some members of the NSC recognized hitting these targets could be meaningless.®" The destruction o f a few training facilities would not necessarily increase the cost of continuing terrorism to Qaddafi or to the state of Libya significantly. The U.S. needed something that Qaddafi believed was important. Therefore, Qaddafi’s main headquarters, the Aziziyah Barracks, was added to the target list. Even if he was not present during the attack, the raid would be a personalized exhibition o f the American military’s ability to reach Libya. It would be a direct threat to him and his seat of power, two things of considerable value to Qaddafi. Therefore, the U.S. had adopted, without specifically stating so, a shock strategy. Admittedly, some in the administration felt additional air strikes were a plausible option.®® Reagan explicitly threatened future air strikes if Qaddafi continued his current policies.®® But