tant provocation to unleash U.S. military power, concluding the only way to force this war to a conclusion was to carry it to North Vietnam. By 4 April, Nixon decided to launch air strikes on North Vietnam, but ordered U.S. ground units to stay out of the fighting and to continue their withdrawal. For the first time since the end o f Rolling Thunder, U.S. planes would be going back to Hanoi and Haiphong.*® Bombing would not only stop the Easter Offensive, but it would aim to compel North Vietnam to sign a treaty. Nevertheless, the initial U.S. bombing efforts focused on providing air support for beleaguered ARVN positions and striking NVA concentrations just north of the DMZ. This limited campaign, code-named Freedom Train, was little more than extended tactical air support, not the powerful compellent leverage Nixon/Kissinger later implemented with Linebacker I. It targeted supply caches, lines o f communication, artillery positions, and SAM and anti-aircraft 270  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 283 --- concentrations to deprive the NVA fighting in the northern provinces o f supplies and support. During the month long operation the U.S. fiew some 2500 sorties, including 89 B-52 strikes. However, the effect on the NVA offensive seemed minimal.*' Facing a steadily deteriorating situation in South Vietnam, Nixon and Kissinger began planning a much bigger bombing campaign. The U.S. military commanders in South Vietnam wanted to concentrate all available air assets against the NVA forces on the battlefield. But Kissinger was concerned with more than just the immediate military situation. He wanted to send a signal that the U.S. was willing to use overwhelming force. He believed that for a diplomatic solution, the U.S. would have to demonstrate a clear and decisive determination to prevail. A bombing strike would also force the Soviets hand, either for or against increased U.S. military pressure.*’ There was considerable concern in Washington over possible repe