m.®' In October 1985, Palestinian terrorists hijacked the Italian cruise ship A c h ille L a u ro .  The U.S. Navy intercepted the fleeing terrorists’ airplane, only to be stymied by the Italian government’s subsequent release of the terrorists. The Reagan administration was severely frustrated by this close, but not close enough, effort. Shortly thereafter, members of Abu Nidal’s group hijacked an Egyptian airliner, leading to the deaths of some 60 passengers.®® The final straw were the attacks on the Rome and Vienna airports in December 1985, which killed 16 people (5 Americans) and wounded over 1 1 0 .® ®  Again, the terrorists were part of Abu Nidal’s group. Although Libya may not have been directly involved, Qaddafi was Nidal’s primary patron and therefore Libya drew at least indirect responsibility. Americans perceived terrorism as running amok. Washington felt the pressure to act.®" The foreign policy bureaucracy which opposed challenging Qaddafi could stall no longer. 327  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 340 --- Nevertheless, Reagan still would not take direct military action. In mid- 1985, he had signed off on a CIA covert assistance plan to anti-Qaddafi Libyan exiles. But the program was soon leaked to the media, which forced its termination.®® In December 1985, Reagan decided to initiate a more robust coercive diplomacy strategy. Therefore, on 6 January 1986, the U.S. government enacted stiff economic and diplomatic sanctions to exhaust all peaceful options. The sanctions were enfeebled by large loopholes and the Europeans refusal to accept them.®^ Ironically, the Western Allies’  reluctance to enact economic sanctions contributed to the U.S. decision finally to use military force. A decisive consideration against prompt military action at this time was the potential for a massive hostage situation involving the 1,500 Americans still working in Libya. Thus, Reagan called for the immediate withdrawal of American workers. The "Line of D eath" By e