t of the interdiction campaign did push Iran to the economic limit. (Although Iraq’s operation was aided by an unrelated steep decline in the world-wide price of oil.) Iran was forced to react with a series of ground offensives in 1986 and 1987 that finally exhausted its armed forces and society. This eventually led to the ceasefire. A bombing campaign intended to increase the costs of war and inflict pain forced a state to undertake drastic action it might not have otherwise done. Furthermore, destruction of targets even considered to be civilian is still destruction that requires the expenditure o f resources to repair or replace. Not only does this put additional stresses on the economy, but the population and the civilian economy will require protection that diverts scarce military assets from other 439  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 452 --- military operations. For example, during World War II, the Germans were forced to divert large numbers of anti-aircraft guns and fighters to defend against Allied bombers. These weapons could have been more useful on the frontlines. Additionally, it may be difficult to estimate the pain inflicted by bombing and accordingly the affect of the pain upon the opposing leaders. It is rare for opposing states to divulge fully the reasons behind a particular decision. Deductions from the available information may favor the military aspects of the situation simply because it is more prominent and easier to quantify. If a state is being defeated in battle again and again, one can safely assume it is losing militarily, but it is more difficult to measure the pain and loss o f morale due to those defeats. Indeed, pain is not just a product of bombing the population and the economic infrastructure. A military defeat also delivers pain and lowers morale of the entire state. A decision to concede often arises from a combination of factors. Admittedly, in most of those cases in which the deliverance o f pain influenced the compe