eliminate Libya’s ability to support these groups. Two methods that might eliminate the capability were a strictly enforced, total blockade or a massive application of military force to destroy the infrastructure. Neither option was politically acceptable to either the American populace or the international community. Consequently, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to eradicate Libya’s capability to support terrorism. O f course, many in the Reagan administration recognized that one small air strike could only accomplish so much and not deny capability. Success, therefore, would have to be predicated more on a decision by Qaddafi to limit his regime’s support o f terrorism or to rein in his terrorist minions. Essentially, Qaddafi’s desire 333  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 346 --- and will to rely on terrorism would have to be undermined rather than his actual ability to support terrorism. The key was to achieving success was to determine how an bombing strike could exert the most pressure on Libya, i.e. pain, and more specifically, on Qaddafi. One obvious possible source of delivering pain to Libya was based on the fact that Libya’s economy is dependent on exporting oil."^ If the United States desired to inflict pain on Libya, there would be no better way than to attack the highly vulnerable oil fields. There was considerable interest in the National Security Council staff to hit the oilfields.®® But the U.S. military was not keen on bombing these types of targets which were considered part of the civilian sector. Indeed, bombing oil fields was rejected because it would be difficult to associate them with self-defense against an immediate terrorist threat, ostensibly the public justification for the raid.®' In addition, there was not a good deal of confidence in the U.S. military’s ability to inflict substantial damage to the oil infrastructure with just one raid.® ®  Of course, the presence o f thousands o f foreign workers in the oil fields wa