restige of Hussein’s regime. Because Hussein had rested his prestige and even his legitimacy on leading Iraq to victory, the defeats were a serious threat to his power. However, because Iraq retained Umm Qasr, the damage was not decisive. Iran’s successes were still tactical, not strategic. Nevertheless, Iran’s battlefield triumphs had deep repercussions throughout the Gulf. The Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), especially Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, feared Iran was on the verge of victory. The previous cautious GCC gave way to more open support of Iraq. This aggravated Iran who accused the GCC of being anti-Iranian and a tool of the U .S.'“  Iran had already increased the pressure on the Gulf states to dissuade them from supporting Iraq (and to punish them) via three types of pressure, political intimidation, maritime harassment and interdiction, and to a lesser extent, direct attacks.'®'' Meanwhile, Hussein concluded after the Al Paw operation that Iran could not be compelled simply by showing Iraq could deliver pain. The near catastrophic loss must have also worried Hussein immensely because Iraq quickly escalated the Tanker and City Wars and widened its use o f chemical weapons. Hussein must have believed the gravity of the situation warranted international censure associated 389  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 402 --- with using chemical weapons and felt less constrained by political repercussions and Iranian retaliations from more substantive Tanker and City Wars. Iraq moved away from a punishment strategy toward a weak form of economic infrastructure strategy because the threat of future pain did not matter as much. Instead, Iraq was more interested in increasing Iran’s costs of continuing the war as much as possible. But Hussein could not break with the concept o f the punishment strategy to deliver the decisive blow. Furthermore, Iraq did not have the capability to cut off Iran’s oil export or to devastate its economic sector. Consequently, Iraq was f