fy this superiority and were willing to give up much of the Sinai in exchange for a peace treaty."" But Israel wanted to maintain the status quo in the face of military pressure. Israel had been forced to return the Sinai after the 1956 War without receiving any concessions from the Arabs. As the War o f Attrition progressed, more Israelis saw the need to keep the Sinai as a buffer zone. Once the line had been drawn at the Suez Canal in 1969, holding that line became paramount. A retreat under fire was almost unthinkable. The need for holding the Suez Canal eventually was elevated in stature to a question of vital national security."' In July 1969, the Israeli military leadership believed that an Egyptian cross- Canal assault was imminent. Therefore, Israel’s immediate objective was to prevent Egypt from undertaking military actions which would take back any o f the Sinai. Israel also wanted to make it plain to the Arabs that it still held the military advantage, particularly in the air. Air superiority was o f critical importance because Israel believed it would prevent any large-scale crossing of the Suez Canal. Moreover, Israel wanted to show its determination to hold onto the captured land 127  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 140 --- and would not be intimidated or forced to bow to Arab demands. Hopefully, this resolve and demonstration o f military superiority might dissuade Egypt from launching future assaults. Finally, Israel wanted to prevent an escalation to a larger, general war which would result in international pressure to negotiate a peace settlement."’ Israel was particularly worried that superpower pressure and intervention would limit its actions and ability to control its own fate. Israel’s military strategy prior to July 1969 had been built upon defense in conjunction with limited reprisals to deter Egyptian attacks. However, by July 1969, the ability o f the Israeli ground forces to inflict enough damage to deter Egypt had diminished. T