an diminished its ground war activities. And after Iraq’s successful ground attacks in Spring and Summer 1988, Iraq reduced its aerial operations. Instead o f applying the decisive amount of pressure, Iraq always eased up. Nonetheless, Iraq’s use of air power still played an important role in compelling Iran to accept a ceasefire. Without a doubt, air power would not have been as effective without working in conjunction with other factors, especially the Iraqi ground successes. It was a combination of multiple pressures that led to Iran’s acceptance of the ceasefire. Most importantly, air power contributed to the economic malaise in Iran and the collapse o f morale. This was important during 413  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 426 --- this war. Neither side could develop the military capability to achieve a complete territorial conquest or destroy each other’s armed forces in a sweeping blitzkrieg campaign. Indeed, both sides tended to focus on geographical objectives rather than the larger operational objective of eliminating the opponent’s armed forces. Consequently, this was a war of attrition in which the side that lost its will to continue first would lose, and every bit o f pressure to weaken morale and the will to continue aided Iraq’s compellent effort. Even Iraq’s less than complete prosecution o f the Tanker War was painful to Iran. The Tanker War was a constant drain on Iran. The continuous lost revenue from damage and declining oil exports was a factor in Iran’s economic woes. This contributed to the decline in morale among the Iranian people. As the economy and morale sagged by late 1986, Iran realized a strategy o f prolonged attrition was not beneficial. Therefore, in early 1987 Iran launched a series o f ground offensives to win the war. However, the strengthened and improved Iraqi Army slaughtered the Iranian infantry, adding significantly to the war-weariness in Iran. By mid- 1987, Iran was in an untenable situation. Unable to win the wa