s of orchestrating such a subtle operation and taken pains to 189  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 202 --- insure that their signals were being sent and perceived as accurately as possible. For example, the U.S. did not explicitly link the bombing to North Vietnamese compliance with its demands.®^ Nor was there a clear-cut ultimatum to comply or face the consequences due to fear of a Chinese or Soviet re a c tio n .T h e s e deficiencies seriously hampered the operation. Many critics of Rolling Thunder have also focused on its gradual escalation. However, this incrementalism was not inconsistent with the punishment strategy and coercive diplomacy. The point is not to deprive total military capability or to destroy the entire state. Instead, it is to inflict some pain, with the threat o f more pain in the future. The problem was that the targets themselves were inadequate. Indeed, it is extremely worthwhile to look at what the bombing actually struck. In his analysis o f Rolling Thunder as coercive diplomacy, William Simons concludes the U.S. had few of the factors which favor coercive diplomacy on its side, only strong motivation, strong leadership, and supposedly a military option.'’ Undoubtedly, the U.S. was faced with an opponent whose resolve and motivation exceeded its own, but domestic support for U.S. military involvement in Vietnam ran 2 to I in favor, 52 percent pro and 26 percent con.®’ Additionally, the U.S. '' From George and Simons, ed. I and II, the factors favoring coercive diplomacy are, strength of motivation, asymmetry of motivation, clarity of objectives, sense o f urgency, domestic support, usable military options, opponent’s fear of unacceptable escalation, clarity concerning precise terms o f settlement, strong leadership, and international support. 190  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 203 --- was hampered by an inability to convey its objectives and settlement terms to North with clarity and with a sense o f urgency to reac