73 --- Nasser was a popular, charismatic leader, the deep strikes did not hit any targets which would directly or indirectly affect civilians, and the campaign was prosecuted without vigor or tenacity. For example, during the month of January 1970, the lAF only conducted 12 raids on 6 days."® Israel did not conduct the operation in a manner that would exert the maximum pressure on Nasser. And pressure on Nasser was the key to its success. It should be noted that some high-level officials in the Israeli government chafed against the restrictions and argued for unleashing the lAF."® One can only speculate as to what would have occurred if the lAF had executed a more traditional strategic bombing campaign. A pulverization strategy was clearly out of the question due to domestic and international ramifications. Israel could have decided on a strategy better suited to the dual role of affecting the ability and will to wage war. For example, the lAF would have had little difficulty executing a Mitchellian strategy and bomb the economic infrastructure to destroy or disable targets such as the Aswan Dam, electrical power systems, port facilities, etc. This would have limited Egypt’s ability to support military operations and affected the will of the population indirectly by shattering Egypt’s economy. This would have especially increased the pressure on Nasser. The lAF could have also significantly disrupted Egypt’s ability to wage war during a short-term campaign. A more expansive strategy of military denial would have included destruction of military logistical networks, including transportation nodes such as port facilities and bridges, as well as concentrated attacks on supply depots and command centers. 161  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 174 --- Any strategy that would have weakened Egypt’s military would have had a significant effect on Nasser’s willingness to prosecute the war. Without a functioning army, Nasser could not achieve his ultimate goal, regain