erged, pragmatists and radicals. The apparent incoherence of Iran’s foreign policy was the product of each faction gaining influence at a particular time, while the temporary loser often took actions to undermine the other. See James Weinrauch, "Iran’s Response to U.N. Resolution 598: The Role o f Factionalism in the Negotiation Process," American-Arab Affairs. No. 15 (Winter 1989-90), 15-28, for a discussion o f the competing factions, especially during the move to a ceasefire agreement. 373  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 386 --- capability with new pipelines, but it would take time to increase the amount and in the meantime, Iraq’s revenue generation and economy would suffer.*’ Together with the military losses, the deprival o f the Syrian pipeline meant that the pressure in Iraq was mounting. On 12 April 1982, Hussein publicly offered to withdraw from Iran if it honored a ceasefire.** This was rejected. Actually, in early 1982, a UN peace initiative came the closest to settling the war any time prior to 1988. But the agreement stalled because Iran was distrustful of Iraq’s promises o f withdrawal and refused to recognize the pre-1975 Algiers Agreement border of the Shatt al-Arab. Another promising peace effort ended in May when a plane crash killed the entire Algerian negotiating team.** The final blow to the ceasefire effort was Iran’s retaking Khorramshahr in late May. This reversed Iraq’s only significant gain during the war. Iraq’s supposed military superiority was in extreme jeopardy as Iran defeated a strongly held Iraqi position with little more than infantry attacks. Besides Khorramshahr, during the past two months Iraq had given up some 5,500 square kilometers of Iranian territory, suffered between 30,000 and 50,000 casualties, and had up to 25,000 taken prisoner.” Not only was this a significant military defeat, the loss o f Khorramshahr was a severe morale and political blow to Hussein. Consequently, Iraq’s domestic situation was becoming i