this time, there was growing disenchantment with Rolling Thunder. Robert McNamara in particular was increasingly skeptical o f its efficacy, in large part due to the gloomy conclusions o f the August 1966 Jason Summer Study.'' The military still viewed the bombing optimistically. They believed Rolling Thunder’s failure was due to the constraints imposed by Washington and asserted that their removal, combined with a massive escalation aimed at finally destroying the economic infrastructure, would yield positive results.'™ As typical o f his experience with the Vietnam conflict, Johnson was presented with dramatically In the summer o f 1966 the Department of Defense commissioned a group of analysts and scientists to examine Rolling Thunder and its effect on the conflict. Known as the Jason Summer Study, its primary conclusion was that, "As of July 1966, the U.S. bombing of North Vietnam (NVN) had had no measurable direct effect on Hanoi’s ability to mount and support military operations in the South at the current level." (Gravel Ed., IV, 116) It also concluded the bombing had no tangible effect on the will o f the North Vietnamese. The Jason study based its stark denunciation on the inherent invulnerabilities of North Vietnam coupled with the Chinese and Soviet support, and not the restraints imposed by Washington. Importantly, the study also predicted that any escalations or intensifications of Rolling Thunder would most likely not make any difference. The Jason study was by no means the first pessimistic government report regarding Rolling Thunder or the war. However, the Jason study was especially influential due to the distinguished stature o f its authors, its timing (right after the POL failure), and its atypically blunt language. 208  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 221 --- differing opinions from supposed experts. Often, he attempted to steer a mid-course to no one’s satisfaction and to the detriment of the military situation. Notwithstanding his Se