sts and resolve." It is important not to get bogged down in specific categorizations between what should be considered interests or resolve or whether commitment and risk should be separate elements. Instead, it is important to acquire a sense of how the political situation can affect the outcome of compellence " Interests, comprised of interests and value, is the determination o f what a state believes is at stake. In a narrow sense, interest is the more rational, calculated, analysis o f the tangible or intangible thing(s) at stake. Value is the worth, often based on emotion, symbolism, nationalism, or religious fervor, placed on the interest. I combine the two because I am concerned with the states’ bottom-line view o f what is at stake. Typically, the political objectives of a state in a conflict can be derived from an examination o f its interests. Resolve measures how much a state will commit and how much pain and punishment it will endure in order to achieve or protect its interests. Consequently, this also indicates how willing a state is to attain its political objectives. 76  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 89 --- in a particular case. Examining interests and resolve provides relevant, yet concise and relatively uncomplicated, information such as why a state is involved, what it hopes to gain, and how far is it willing to go to win. These considerations can play a role in determining whether a state’s compellent effort succeeds or fails. Coercive Diplomacy A crucial augmentation of the bargaining concept was Alexander George and his co-author’s work on coercive diplomacy.'"*® George, et al., analyzed how theory could be intertwined with diplomacy and limited military force to create a policy o f forceful persuasion. Their attempts to operationalize coercion from abstract theory into policy is also important because it further describes how the bargaining factors manifest themselves in actual conflicts. George became interested in the subject duri