guide Rolling Thunder: 1) emphasize the threat of future bombings, 2) make it politically easy for the DRV to enter negotiations and make concessions, 3) limit interdiction to the least controversial targets, 4) coordinate with other influences and pressures on the DRV, and 5) reduce political risks and costs, especially in regard to China and the Soviet Union.®® During the rest of 1965, the majority of bombing sorties were armed reconnaissance intending to find and destroy any trucks, trains, boats moving supplies and men.®' Other major targets included bridges, railroads, and small military installations such as supply depots and barracks. Nevertheless, Rolling Thunder was not exclusively an interdiction campaign. As it continued to achieve little, there was a growing acknowledgement over the need to expand the bombings. Therefore, some o f the 94 targets on the Air Force’s list were struck. In fact, the Air Force expanded the list o f 94 targets to 236 and by the end o f October had bombed 126 of them.®’ This demonstrated Rolling Thunder’s duality. Overall, it was an effort to induce a favorable settlement. Yet, there were two broad approaches to achieve this objective. On the one hand, it was an effort to deny North Vietnam’s military ability. Thus, operationally, it was primarily an interdiction campaign. Yet even those who supported the interdiction approach believed the bombing would affect 195  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 208 --- more than just North Vietnam’s ability to supply soldiers in the south. Destroying the transportation would also significantly disrupt the industrial and commercial activity in North Vietnam and increase the cost of the war to Hanoi.®’ But the Air Force, with some support from the JCS, also wanted to transform Rolling Thunder into a strategic bombing campaign, a la WWII. They believed this would significantly bolster the denial operation by wiping out North Vietnam’s ability to wage war (more encompassing that acting a