ubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 291 --- Linebacker I continued into the fall when Nixon halted it on 23 October 1972 in response to a breakthrough in the negotiations.' On 8 October, Hanoi had officially dropped its demand that Thieu must be removed."’ This pivotal concession was the compromise needed to yield a negotiated settlement. Negotiations made quick progress towards a final agreement so Nixon decided to end the bombings. After all, previously he had tied the end of the bombing to meaningful negotiations."® What Prompted the Settlement? While Hanoi’s concession in October has received much attention, a concession by the U.S. in May 1972 also played an important role in the settlement. During the summit discussions Kissinger told the Soviets the U.S. would accept a tripartite commission to govern South Vietnam after the war."* This marked the first time U.S. had accepted some inclusion of the political dimension into the negotiations. This was the beginning of the compromise over who would rule in Saigon. Although the May talks between the U.S. and North Vietnam were a disaster, by July the meetings had resumed. The major difference between May and July was the defeat of the Easter Offensive. North Vietnam’s military gambit had ' Actually, all bombing o f North Vietnam did not end. U.S. planes, including B-52, still continued to strike interdiction targets in the southernmost portion of North Vietnam. 279  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 292 --- failed and now Hanoi was interested in talks. And even more importantly, Hanoi was interested in making progress. By August, North Vietnam had accepted a coalition government that would not necessarily be dominated by communists. Furthermore, for the first time North Vietnam began to acknowledge Thieu’s government as a legitimate political organization.” ® After years of glacial advance in the talks, events now began to move quickly. Apparently, Hanoi wanted to reach an agreement before the November presidenti