ing political leadership to demonstrate how air power could defend America’s shores.” Furthermore, the small body of data, based on the limited experience in World War I, adversely affected the accuracy of their predictions. Extrapolating linearly from this data, they concluded that increased bombing would devastate cities and pulverize industries. Douhet was the worst offender and he even provided neat, although highly inaccurate, equations which showed that X number of bombers would obviously wreak Y amount of damage.” ' However, World War II proved that the damage inflicted by aerial bombardment was far less than predicted; the damage did not extrapolate linearly. Aerial bombing’s ability to ‘  Douhet’s ideas were severely hampered by a disregard for the concept of friction. Friction, a term coined by Clausewitz, is a collection of the uncertainty in war which causes operations never to unfold as planned. Without friction, Douhet’s bombers always found their targets, always hit their targets, and always dropped their bombs in the perfect layout to cause the maximum damage while avoiding overlap. Obviously, Douhet was not familiar with Murphy’s Laws. 29  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 42 --- destroy key industrial targets was limited by operational capabilities o f bombers that Douhet and Mitchell did not fully consider. Additionally, based on the experiences of Britain during World War I, civilian morale was considered a ripe target. Trenchard once said, "that the moral effect is to material to the ratio o f 10:1." and believed that civilians would wilt under the pressure o f bombing.”  But the Second World War demonstrated that civilian populations were tougher than Trenchard or Douhet thought. Indeed, the morale of some civilian populations held up much better to aerial bombardment than that o f some armies. Assuming that strategic bombing could inflict devastating damage, Douhet and Mitchell saw air power as dominating the next war, relegating the a