mpellence. This is probably due to the absolute nature of battles and the comparative ease with which their success (or failure) can be measured. Without doubt, military denial has been the most consistently effective usage of strategic bombing to persuade leaders to change their policy and/or concede defeat. The probable explanation for this is that the military situation is less ambiguous, especially in regard to territory. Unlike the level o f pain a state can endure before conceding, there is a clear line as to control of territory and, to a lesser extent, military capability. A state either does or does not possess a piece of land. (Control of the sea is more fluid and less absolute but one can still detect patterns which indicate control.) The North Vietnamese leadership could not deny their army had failed to conquer South Vietnam in 1972, nor could Nasser not recognize the Egyptian Army could not invade the Sinai. On the other hand, air power has yet to shut down an economy totally. Instead, states seem to muddle along. Even Japan was still functioning in August 460  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 473 --- 1945, albeit at a very low level, despite the fact that most o f its cities had been destroyed by incendiary raids and its vital imports cut off. This illustrates the biggest difference between military denial and punishment. Both hurt a state, but only military denial can directly prevent a state from achieving its objectives or remaining in control of something it highly values. Subsequently, leaders can more easily recognize and understand failures and success on the battlefield. There is no getting around a military defeat and loss of territory. In fact, after a cataclysmic military defeat, the decision over whether to concede may be the only course of action. In other words, a nearly de facto acceptance of the military situation as opposed to the more ambiguous measure of victory and defeat when inflicting pain. Even with a lesser defeat, co