. forces, the operation infuriated Nixon.®’ He wanted to retaliate, but the problem was with what and where. Escalations such as invading North Vietnam, Laos, and/or Cambodia or renewing the bombing o f North Vietnam would generate too much domestic criticism.®® Consequently, Nixon turned to bombing North Vietnamese Army bases in Cambodia along South Vietnam.®'* To avoid hostile publicity, Nixon decided to veil the bombing in extreme secrecy. Even the Air Force Chief o f Staff was unaware o f the bombings and official military records failed to report where the planes actually flew .® ® The objectives for bombing Cambodia were straightforward. It was an attempt to increase the pressure on North Vietnam to convince Hanoi to negotiate a treaty. The compellent leverage would be obtained partially by degrading North Vietnam’s ability to wage war. The NVA had large bases in Cambodia near South Vietnam, containing logistical storage areas, headquarters units, and staging areas for troops, that were critical for its war effort.® ®  Bombing these targets would hamper NVA operations in South Vietnam. The Nixon administration claimed this 256  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 269 --- was important as Vietnamization and withdrawals of American troops were to begin in earnest.®’ Compellent leverage would also result from simply using air power. This would send a message to Hanoi that Nixon was willing to use military force even while negotiations were ongoing.®* Nixon hoped this would help the negotiations as Hanoi would decide to sign a treaty before he escalated the war again.®® Nixon and Kissinger may well have considered this compellent leverage equally, or even more important than denial of military capability. The bombings, code-named Menu, began in March of 1969. They ended in May 1970 after their revelation in the press yielded a storm o f domestic criticism. B-52 bombers carried out 3,630 sorties and dropped 100,000 tons of bombs during these fourteen months."