The increased population under South Vietnamese government control came mainly through their forced movement to more secure areas, rather than territorial expansion.'"" Thus, the U.S. forces were not able to protect the people more effectively. The DRV and their NLF allies faced a setback, but they did not believe it was permanent or catastrophic. The ground war had not been able to convince the communists that negotiations were the only alternative. In fact, although the U.S. had approximately 500,000 personnel in South Vietnam and had been executing Rolling Thunder for three years, the communists were still able to launch a massive attack, the Winter-Spring Campaign of 1967-1968, commonly known as the Tet Offensive. The DRV Politburo decided to launch this campaign in July 1967.'"" Although most attention focuses on the fighting around the Tet holiday in 1968, it actually had three phases. The first was a series of attacks on South Vietnam’s outer edges in last four months o f 1967, intended to draw the American troops away from the populated areas along the coast and inflict heavy American casualties. The second phase was the wide-ranging assault on many o f South 218  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 231 --- Vietnam’s eities and towns during Tet. With most American troops in the outlying areas. North Vietnam thought the VC/NVA could be victorious against the lower quality South Vietnamese forces. Hanoi hoped that the attack would also trigger a revolt by the South Vietnamese people against their unpopular government. The final phase was to be a large, conventional offensive by the rest o f the NVA sweeping down to crush a collapsing South Vietnamese military and government and a disoriented American force.'"" Even if the general offensive failed, Hanoi hoped the bloody fighting would sap American morale and compel a withdrawal of U.S. forces.'"" During the first phase. North Vietnam suffered higher casualties than it wanted, but succeeded in drawing mor