t three more F-4s.'”®  The shock to Israel and the lAF over these losses was profound. The lAF was not that large, numbering only some 180 front­ line aircraft, with some 40 Phantoms.'”®  The lAF relied on its qualitative advantage for it was substantially outnumbered by its Arab counterparts. Now that advantage was in some doubt. The star o f Israel’s defense had been tarnished. The lAF could not afford to continue this pace of attrition unabated. It simply could not trade its planes for a seemingly endless supply of Soviet SAMs.'”® By the middle of July, Soviet manned planes moved to airbuses closer to the Suez. On 25 July, a Soviet piloted MiG damaged an Israeli plane near the Canal."” This time, the Israeli government refused to back down. On 30 July, Israeli planes ambushed a flight o f Soviet piloted MiGs. Although outnumbered two-to-one, the lAF pilots shot down 5 MiGs without loss.'" This incident embarrassed the Soviets, whose haughty manner infuriated the Egyptians. But it had no bearing on the course of the war as a ceasefire had already been agreed to. On 23 July, Nasser had concurred with an American proposal for a ceasefire and on 30 July, Israel agreed as well. On 8 August 1970, the War of Attrition was over."® 148  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 161 --- How the W ar Ended Attempts to attain a peaceful resolution o f the War o f Attrition had not gone well during the first half o f 1970. A Soviet ceasefire proposal fell through in March 1970 due to their massive arms shipments to Egypt."® In early 1970, the United States was not prepared to pressure Israel into major concessions. Nevertheless, the U.S. government was always concerned with the prospect o f a Middle East war exploding into a superpower conflagration."'* The escalating conflict in the late spring and early summer of 1970 alarmed the Nixon administration enough to become more interested in terminating the war in the Middle East than protecting Israeli interests."® Consequently,