efs of Staff argued against any pause, not wanting to reduce the pressure on North Vietnam.®^ In fact, they wanted to dramatically escalate Rolling Thunder into an economic infrastructure campaign to smash North Vietnam’s war-making capability and crush its spirit under the devastation of its economy.®'® Nonetheless, the civilian advisers’ arguments that this would be a move toward settlement prevailed.” To the civilians, the bargaining dimension of Rolling Thunder often superseded the military purpose. The pause was important because it would allow North Vietnam to consider the damage and contemplate their willingness to endure further bombing. Nevertheless, there was not widespread optimism for success. Indeed, there was a large cynical element to the pause. Not only was there extensive discussion as to how Rolling Thunder would escalate after the pause, several officials saw it as a mere public relations move.™ A pause would show the American people that 198  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 211 --- the U.S. government was willing to explore avenues leading to peace, while the North Vietnamese were obstinate. On 24 December 1965, Johnson suspended Rolling Thunder.®” Unlike the previous pause, this time the U.S. sent diplomatic feelers throughout the world looking for help in bringing North Vietnam to the negotiating table. The U.S. even made direct contact with the DRV government through their respective ambassadors in Burma. Additionally, for the first time, the U.S. issued a single statement clearly delineating its conditions for a settlement.” However, as the bombing pause continued into January, the war in South Vietnam heated up. Instead of curtailing their activities, the U.S. ground forces launched new attacks against the VC/NVA.™ The subtlety of the U.S. attempt at conciliation with the bombing pause may well have been lost on Hanoi under the increasing intensity o f the ground war. Though disappointed by the lack o f official reply from Hanoi, P