ped even lower during the midpoint of the war.”  And even these planes were generally not fully operational, often flying without the working avionics needed to deliver munitions accurately.” Nevertheless, due to superior U.S. training and aircraft, the Iranian Air Force could make a limited impact on the conflict, mostly in a deterrent role. Throughout the war Iran was limited to a punishment strategy due to the lack of sustainability. A military denial, economic infrastructure, or a pulverization campaign would have 371  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 384 --- required too much from an air force without access to copious spare parts and munitions. The best the IIAF could hope for was a series of raids to inflict damage on Iraq’s economic infrastructure to maintain some deterrent value against Iraqi escalation.*^ The IIAF’s mere existence was enough to temper Hussein’s willingness to escalate for most of the war. Iraq’s oil industry was less exposed to aerial attacks than Iran after Iraq’s southern facilities were closed at the start of the war.”  Yet the Iraqi economic sector and even the remaining oil industry were vulnerable to aerial bombing. Although Iraq secured aid from the wealthy Gulf states, a damaged economic infrastructure was more than Hussein wanted from a limited, demonstrative war. ^ Iran never executed what could be considered a coherent strategic bombing campaign against Iraqi land targets primarily due to the aforementioned maintenance problems. Although the IIAF did some maritime interdiction. Another reason was that Iran’s view o f air power did not include an emphasis on strategic bombing. Like Iraq, Iran also saw air power as more of a deterrent and supporter o f ground operations than an offensive weapon that could independently influence the course o f a war. Iran probably did not want to squander its limited aerial resources on strategic bombing. And the loss o f approximately 100 aircraft during the first year, many to accidents