U.S. attempt at conciliation with the bombing pause may well have been lost on Hanoi under the increasing intensity o f the ground war. Though disappointed by the lack o f official reply from Hanoi, President Johnson held out throughout January in the hope o f a positive response by the DRV. Finally, on 28 January the North Vietnamese responded with a radio address denouncing the pause, demanding the withdrawal of U.S. forces, and stating the NLF was the sole representative o f South Vietnamese people.™ North Vietnam was only interested in a total U.S. acceptance o f its Four-Point Plan. Johnson quickly resumed Rolling Thunder on 31 January 1966.™ 199  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 212 --- The POL Attacks - July 1966 The failure of the bombing pause deeply affected Johnson. He lost faith in negotiation efforts and concluded the U.S. would have to take stronger action.®® Therefore, Rolling Thunder as a persuasive tool gave way to Rolling Thunder as a punitive campaign. In other words, compelling the North via the threat of future bombings gave way to pressure through overwhelming application of military force. However, the question o f which targets would be bombed remained. Among the many proposals was John McNaughton’s suggestion o f bombing North Vietnam’s irrigation dikes and dams. Their destruction would seriously disrupt North Vietnam’s production o f rice, thereby requiring massive importation of rice to prevent starvation, and flood parts o f North Vietnam.®® Although it would clearly inflict pain on North Vietnam, his suggestion was rejected, probably because no one was overly optimistic that it would work and the image of a superpower bombing the food source of one o f the world’s poorest nations was not attractive. Moreover, the military was not eager to target civilians and did not push the issue.'®® On the other hand, the JCS promoted a wider escalation using an economic infrastructure strategy.'®’  But this too was rejected due to the recurr