ing strategic bombing and nuclear weapons and turned SAC’s mission into delivering nuclear weapons.’-^ Strategic bombing with nuclear weapons still intended to target the opponent’s economic and industrial centers to destroy the war-making capability and the will to resist. Nuclear weapons were the perfect way to assure destruction of these targets. Of course, the planned nuclear attack would also be massive enough to obliterate the enemy state. If one intends to use enough nuclear weapons to "bounce the rubble", doctrine and theory specifics are of little consequence. Strategy merely becomes an exercise in developing the most efficient nuclear targeting plan. This furthered the theory stagnation. LeMay was primarily responsible for creating the Single Integrated Operational Plan (SIOP) for a potential nuclear war. It called for a swift, annihilating strike on the enemy (presumably the Soviet Union and China). Nearly all of SAC’s resources were devoted to carrying out the SIOP, to the detriment of the bombing with conventional weapons mission.Later,  after LeMay served as Air Force Chief of Staff, the Air Force in turn was dominated by SAC and its SIOP mission. Nuclear war, and the attendant annihilation of the enemy, became the objective of the Air Force. The influence of nuclear warfare theory and doctrine was so complete that, even after the problems in Korea, the Air Force did not seem interested in examining air power theory regarding conventional weapons. This was not solely 65  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 78 --- due to LeMay. For example, the Secretary of the Air Force in the early 1950s, Thomas Finletter, believed that the Air Force had little to learn from the Korean War because it was a limited war whose aim was not total victory and thus unlikely to be repeated.W hat  little analysis o f Korea that did emerge attributed the bombing’s lack o f effectiveness on the political limitations (no strikes into China). The lesson learned was not ‘ques