bombing in early January? The U.S. may have gotten some additional concessions, but it could never have forced North Vietnam to give up its goal o f unification. Regardless of how much damage U.S. bombers could inflict, or what any treaty said. North Vietnam would have continued its political warfare and eventually built up enough military force to launch another offensive. South Vietnam, without U.S. support, would have collapsed. Even a continued Linebacker II could not have saved South Vietnam and anything else was window dressing. 292  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 305 --- message to Thieu saying the U.S. was going to sign on 23 January with or without South Vietnam. Moreover, if Thieu refused to accept the treaty, the U.S. would terminate all aid. Although Thieu wanted some minor changes, he apparently realized the end was at hand and put up little resistance.'®' On 27 January 1973, just seven days after Nixon’s inauguration, the official treaty was signed in Paris, thereby ending the U.S.’  Vietnam War.'®’ Rating Linebacker II As always, it is impossible to know exactly why Hanoi decided to settle. Yet Hanoi must have felt it was important to stop the bombing immediately. Rather than see how the U.S. domestic political situation would play out, Hanoi decided to complete the treaty in January. Congress might well have cut off funding for Vietnam in early January, thus accomplishing North Vietnam’s objectives.' But Hanoi made no efforts to extract more concessions in January and even retracted a demand regarding POWs.'®’ Previously, North Vietnam always attempted to gain any conceivable benefit from negotiations. Obviously, something had occurred in North Vietnam’s Politburo. Except for Linebacker II, nothing significant happened that would force Hanoi to modify its behavior. For example, there are no indications the Soviet Union placed any specific pressure on North ' Non-binding Congressional Caucuses did vote to cutoff funding shortly after conven