trikes to Egypt’s front-line military positions and spared the support infrastructure located well behind the lines. In 156  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 169 --- sum, air power was prevented from fully exploiting what was most important to Egypt. Even so, the lAF operations in the summer o f 1969 were very successful. Israel’s objectives were to disrupt Egypt’s capability to launch a cross-Canal assault and to use artillery in attritional warfare. To achieve this, the lAF adopted a strategy o f military denial. This particular strategy often results in attacks to the military infrastructure, but the lAF only targeted Egypt’s fielded military forces along the Canal. Even with this limitation, the lAF succeeded, mainly due to its control o f the air, exceptionally high quality o f men and machinery, and ability to find and destroy targets in the desert environment. By August, Egypt was forced to scrap its plan. Military denial prevented Egypt from seizing territory, specifically, the Sinai Peninsula. But instead o f quitting, Nasser merely changed strategies to attritional warfare. By fall 1969, Israel’s impetus shifted to the more political objective of compelling Egypt to cease fighting on Israel’s terms. To end the war on its terms, Israel would now have to defeat Nasser’s attritional strategy or increase Egypt’s cost o f continuing fighting to an unacceptable level. However, Israel only slightly modified its strategy. The lAF would pursue a military denial strategy combined with aspects of a punishment strategy." Israel hoped to convince Nasser to accept a " However, unlike the U.S.’  bombing of North Vietnam, there was little o f the bomb and pause to negotiate that characterizes bargaining with military force. Instead, Israel’s bombing was simply meant to inflict pain and increase the cost of fighting to an intolerable level. 157  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 170 --- ceasefire by disrupting Egypt’s ability to conduct the War o f Attriti