ease the pressure on Iran the only way Iraq could, through the air. In August 1986, the Iraqi Air Force attacked the distant oil export facilities Iran had constructed in southern Persian Gulf, ostensibly out o f reach o f Iraqi planes.*" Iraq also stepped up its attacks on Kharg Island in the latter half o f 1986. A series o f raids in late September and early October apparently shut down Kharg Island temporarily. Iran responded by continuing to upgrade its export facilities farther to the south. However, Iraq again demonstrated its long range flight capability with an attack on the Larak export facility, a raid of some 1,500 miles. While Iraq could not maintain continuous strikes of this nature, it inflicted some damage and forced Iran to defend a wider area."® * "  Some thought Iraq used air bases in the Gulf States as refueling stations to permit the long flights. More likely, though, the Iraqis developed air-to-air refueling capability with planes and equipment purchased abroad. 392  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 405 --- Overall, in 1986 Iraq doubled the previous year’s number of attacks on ships to 66."® Iraq also specifically targeted the tankers shuttling oil between Kharg and facilities further southward. Besides causing a drop in the amount o f oil Iran exported, it also increased Iran’s cost o f exporting oil."’ The pressure continued, but Iraq again failed to close for the kill. For example, Iraq did not return to Larak until late 1987."® The Iraqi Air Force’s long range capability was surely limited, but it is hard to believe the IQAF required a year of preparation to mount another deep strike. Hussein still wanted to compel Iran before complete destruction. Furthermore, Iraq expanded its strategic attack to more traditional economic and industrial targets. During 1986, Iraqi planes hit, among other targets, hydroelectric power stations, arms factories, communication facilities, bridges. Iraq also bombed more of Iran’s oil refineries, offsho