the state and its armed forces are now more vulnerable to exploitation with strategic bombing. This should increase the effectiveness and applicability o f military denial. Why Does it Work? When discussing compellence, one must remember an important point. Assuming that compellence is to be reached before total territorial conquest and complete military victory, success must result from a decision by the targeted state’s government to concede. This means that all pressure applied by air power must be geared toward forcing the opposing leadership to concede. In fact, the leadership ring should be the most important center o f gravity in any compellent operation.” "’  Even if the bombs are falling on oil production plants or airplane factories, ultimately the bombing must affect the leadership sufficiently to yield compellence. It is not so much that the military denial achieves compellence, but This is an interesting step back for Col. John Warden due to the apparent incompatibility of parallel warfare and a narrow focus on the leadership circle. A more narrow focus is indicative o f compellence rather than complete military victory; the basic aim of parallel warfare. 459  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 472 --- that military denial is the best way to sway the leadership, which then leads to compellence. It is not fully clear as to why military defeats affect leaders the most. Pape notes that the inertia which prevents leaders from acting contrary to established policy is difficult to change. Consequently, there must be an overwhelming amount of evidence to force a change.”  Inflicting pain with strategic bombing has not proven consistently effective in convincing leaders to alter their behavior. On the other hand, military denial has been productive during compellence. This is probably due to the absolute nature of battles and the comparative ease with which their success (or failure) can be measured. Without doubt, military denial has been the most consi