ntly. The full degree o f deterrence and credibility gained by the raid will never be known, but some of each was most likely achieved. The only clear-cut failure was Qaddafi retaining power, even though the chances of success were slim anyway. It is interesting to note that during the past few years, Qaddafi has apparently moderated his policies. He seems to have decided to attempt to end Libya’s status as a pariah state. Economics has been the likely cause of the shift. " Reports vary as to how close the F-llls  came. Some contend he was in his tent at Aziziyah and was buffeted by the exploding bombs. Others sources question whether he was even in Aziziyah at the time. 347  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 360 --- The fall o f oil prices seriously weakened the Libya economy, which was further hurt by declining trade relations with the West. The collapse of communist East Europe and the Soviet Union, Libya’s major military suppliers, must have been detrimental as well. Libya also suffered a number o f significant setbacks in its foreign policy. In 1987, the poorly armed Chadians routed a Libyan invasion force, inflicting a major blow to Qaddafi’s domestic and international prestige. The indictment of two Libyan intelligence officers in 1991 for their responsibility in the Pan Am Flight 103 attack has definitely weakened the Qaddafi. Diplomatic and economic sanctions implemented by the United Nations after Qaddafi refused to extradite the suspects has placed continual pressure on Libya and apparently has limited Qaddafi’s confrontationalist approach to the West. While he refuses to surrender the suspects, he has made numerous concessions in an attempt to ward off pressure for extradition.®' Qaddafi has been forced even to initiate reconciliation with Egypt. Obviously, there were significant factors beyond the 1986 raid which caused Qaddafi’s change in policy. Nonetheless, the 1986 raid probably played some role in the moderation effort. The raid demonstrate