sdaran (a paramilitary group also known as the Revolutionary Guards), led by the mullahs, Iran instead struck back immediately with bombing raids on, and artillery shelling of, Iraq’s oil facilities/ The implication was clear. Iraq’s critical economic infrastructure was imminently vulnerable due to a lack of strategic depth. Many o f Iraq’s important oil facilities, especially those at Basra, were shut down due to their proximity to the front. Iraq also lost the ability to export oil via the Persian Gulf. From producing 3.5 million barrels per day in 1979, Iraq’s production fell to 2.6 million in 1980, and only 0.9 million in 1981, matched by a steep drop in revenues/* After the artillery shelling of Basra, Iraq retaliated with a small attack on Iran’s export facilities on Kharg Island. But Iran was less vulnerable to immediate attacks on its oil production and exporting ability. Although the oil fields and the Abadan refinery near the Iraqi border were quickly put out production, Iran could still export oil through Kharg Island and other ports farther away from Iraq.^’ But at least initially, the loss of production and damage to facilities came mostly because o f ground fighting rather than concerted efforts to use air power to disrupt production state-wide. ^ Ironically, the Islamic radicals had to release many pilots and technicians from jail to field an air force. 364  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 377 --- Stalemate Facing Iranian intransigence, Iraq continued its invasion and by October had taken one important southern city, Khorramshahr, and besieged another, Abadan. Even the loss of the economically important Khorramshahr failed to sway the Iranians into accepting a ceasefire. Yet the Iraqis did not display much military prowess, losing heavy casualties in a stiff and protracted battle for a weakly defended Khorramshahr. Among other problems, the Iraqis tended to be indecisive, failed to understand the need for speed to defeat the less mobile Iran