iate by firing 12 SCUD missiles at Baghdad.** While Iran’s efforts produced no discernible effects, the Iraqi operations made some gains.*’ Many in Tehran choose to flee downtown areas, setting up refugee camps outside the city, and opposition demonstrations took place in Tehran. The implication was clear; the Iranian population was susceptible to pressure from aerial bombardment.*® But Iraq again failed to press their advantage and by August the urban attacks waned. Over the next two years, the number of missile and aerial attacks was quite low.** Not until 1988 would the War of the Cities have a major impact on the conflict. Iraq’s punishment strategy also included attacks against Iran’s economic sector to increase the costs o f continuing the war. In December 1982 and January 1983, Iraq executed a limited, and generally ineffective, campaign against Iranian economic targets (besides oil facilities) with aircraft. As usual, the operation lacked the overall cohesion and determination necessary as Iraq failed to establish any clear operational objectives. Iran countered with its own aerial attacks, but was unable to sustain the attacks. Regardless, they made their point and the Iraqi campaign soon wound down. Like the ground war, the strategic campaign against economic infrastructure was stalemated. Iraq’s operations were too weak Iran deterred Iraq with a showing o f skill.'””  Not surprisingly, throughout the war the economic sector campaign accomplished little for either side. 387  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 400 --- 1986 This was a pivotal year in the conflict. Iran made its biggest ground gains since 1983, but was unable to achieve the decisive victory needed to drive Hussein from power. After this close call Hussein shifted farther toward total war with a resultant intensification o f the Tanker War. The radicals in Iran’s government, buoyed by the ground war successes and the Gulf states’ pro-Iraq leanings, pushed for more attacks on shipping in