m raged throughout the Reagan presidency. The confrontationalists, headed by more hawkish members of Reagan’s staff, such as Secretary of State Alexander Haig and the conservative members of the National Security Council, took an ominous view toward Libya. Libya was considered a major source of terrorism and a Soviet proxy state that must be cut down to size. They desired to take an immediate and forthright stand against Qaddafi, even to provoke a fight with him. The groups’  moderates wanted to enfeeble Qaddafi; the most radical desired his d o w n fall.M o reo v er, they believed that military force could be an effective counter to terrorism and were both willing and eager to use it. Haig’s successor at the State Department, George Shultz, became another vocal advocate for retaliation against terrorism and Libya.^' The nonconfrontationalists comprised mainly the career State Department and Central Intelligence Agency officials who specialized in the Middle East, and the military establishment, albeit for different reasons. The civilians viewed Libya and Qaddafi as more of a nuisance than a genuine threat to the U.S. and Western interests. They were deeply skeptical o f the efficacy of any direct military actions against Libya. They believed a clash would only serve to strengthen Qaddafi’s prestige in the Arab world as well as lead to retaliatory terrorist acts. Moreover, they regarded military force as an ineffectual response to terrorism. Consequently, they advocated a general continuation of public neglect combined with increased 322  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 335 --- low-key pressure. The U.S. military also did not advocate a conventional military response, reflecting the cautious approach to any proposed use of armed force taken by Secretary o f Defense Caspar Weinberger and the Joint Chiefs o f Staff. The debate over how much pressure Washington should place on Qaddafi became quite intense by early 1981. Besides military attacks, consideration