n conflict. Nonetheless, the use of air control had two important contributions. First, it provided a reason for the continued existence of the RAF, whose survival was in doubt during the small military budgets o f the 1920s and 1930s. Second, it impressed Winston Churchill, who served as Secretary of State for the Colonies for a period during the inter-war years. Churchill strongly supported air power and saw strategic bombing as a way to affect an opponent’s will to resist. Not surprisingly, he would retain these views throughout World War 11.” Strategic bombing became infamous during the Spanish Civil War with the bombing of Guernica by German and Italian forces fighting on the Nationalists’ side. Actually, strategic bombing had little effect on this conflict. Neither side 35  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 48 --- possessed the quality or quantity of aircraft to execute a sustained strategic bombing campaign. The more powerful Republican aerial forces (which included the Germans and Italians) were also limited by Franco’s desire not to destroy a country he wanted to control and rule. In fact, the Guernica attack was probably more o f an experiment to determine the affect of bombing on civilians and an effort to influence the tactical situation than a specific compellent operation. The bombing earned international criticism, but did not change the conduct o f the war. The Germans and Italians also bombed Madrid, Barcelona, and a number o f smaller towns. These infrequent operations could be considered limited applications of the shock strategy aimed at weakening civilian morale via indiscriminate bomibng of cities. In both cases, the populations did not wilt and the bombings may have bolstered their resolve.”  These unsuccessful attempts at terror bombing went unheeded as the major powers still attempted this type of operation during World War II. Probably the most important effect of the Spanish Civil War on air power theory was in Germany. The Nationa