foreign enemy Hanoi needed to rally the people against. Rolling Thunder caused some death, destruction, and hardship, enough to be a unifying force, but never enough to seriously hurt the average person. Indeed, fighting a foreign interloper probably boosted the morale of the North Vietnamese people.’"" Rolling Thunder was also supposed to affect North Vietnam’s morale and will by significantly contributing to the operation to deny the communists victory in the South. The U.S. government believed that morale in the North would suffer if the communists were not winning the war in South Vietnam. Furthermore, the U.S. felt that Hanoi would lose its will to continue when faced with the prospect of losing. As previously stated. Rolling Thunder did little to eontribute to denying the communists victory. Therefore, the bombings failed to affect North Vietnam’s morale or will to continue with this approach. 233  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 246 --- Alternatives The gradual escalation and restrictions on targets were two of the more criticized aspects of Rolling Thunder. Some critics have attributed both as causes for Rolling Thunder’s shortcomings. Admittedly, neither was consistent with strictly military calculations of efficiency. Gradualism undoubtedly cost America pilots and planes by affording North Vietnam time to buildup its defenses. In 1964, North Vietnam had little in the way of air defenses, only small caliber anti-aircraft guns, a handful of radar sets, few jet fighters, and no surface-to-air-missiles (SAMs).’"" In contrast, during 1967 the North Vietnamese launehed 3,202 SAMs at U.S. planes and had thousands of anti-aireraft guns, including many large caliber pieces with radar direction, scattered throughout the DRV.’"’ Furthermore, the slow escalation allowed North Vietnam to develop countermeasures. For example, North Vietnam was able to disperse enough oil before the POL campaign began in 1966 to avoid a critical lack of oil. But even if the dis