eterrent to Iraqi attacks, but were unable to generate any discernable compellent leverage for Iran. On the other hand, Iraq’s use of air power as a compellent mechanism was more successful. It may have not succeeded as quickly or as decisively as hoped, but it eventually contributed to Iraq compelling Iran to accept a ceasefire. Yet, both sides failed to exploit obvious vulnerabilities to the fullest extent. This meant that air power probably could have had a greater effect on the war than it actually did. Although Iraq’s prosecution of the Tanker War hurt Iran, its biggest contribution may have been forcing Iran to undertake a disastrous series of attacks in early 1987. The high rate of casualties for no gain sapped the morale and resolve o f the Iran 411  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 424 --- people to continue the war. It also weakened the Iranian armed forces seriously. This assisted both the success of Iraqi ground offensives in 1988 and the significant psychological effects o f the missile attacks in Spring 1988. Iraq and Iran were both vulnerable to air power due to their heavy reliance on oil exports for revenues. Indeed, this is an interesting case because both sides were so dependent on a single source of revenue to finance their war efforts. Nonetheless, neither state exploited this completely due to a lack of will and capability. After the closure of the southern oilfields in the war’s early stages, the Iraqi ability to export was less vulnerable to aerial attacks than Iran’s, but Iran still could have damaged some important facilities or targeted Iraq’s economic infrastructure. Hussein was not interested in an expensive war and an early sizable strategic bombing operation might have convinced him to end the war before Iran’s objective of ousting him had solidified and before the G ulf states became a major alternate revenue source for Iraq. However, limited by pre-war purges and a lack of spare parts, munitions, and replacement aircraft, th