ken as a result of NSDD 138.^’ But the terrorism situation worsened. On 14 June 1985, Hezbollah terrorists hijacked TWA Flight 847 and eventually forced it to Beirut. After the terrorists brutally murdered an American passenger, a Navy diver, they released the remaining hostages 17 days later. The United States government could do little except pressure Israel to release the Shiite prisoners the hijackers demanded because the American Special Forces were unable to launch a rescue mission into the chaos o f Beirut. However, this crisis was aired in a media feeding frenzy, vividly demonstrating U.S. impotence in countering terrorism.®® Through 1985, the U.S. seemed paralyzed with inaction as the policy debate over how to respond to terrorism raged on. The confrontationalists still wanted to take stronger actions while the nonconfrontationalists continued to stonewall. Caught in the middle, Ronald Reagan did not want to, or was unable to, make a strong decision to support either policy option. Instead, the United States merely bungled along as in Lebanon. But the hijacking of Flight 847, in addition to 326  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 339 --- continued Libyan aggressions in Africa and the Middle East, began to change attitudes in Washington and bolster the political will for stern action. Importantly, Qaddafi extended support and sanctuary to Abu Nidal’s terrorist group. Abu Nidal left the PLO in the 1970s after a fight with Yassir Arafat and gained a reputation as the leader o f one of the most capable and vicious terrorist organizations. By 1985, U.S. intelligence sources firmly indicated that Nidal had set up shop in Libya and was receiving considerable aid from Qaddafi. This significantly strengthened the argument that Libya was a major source of terrorism.®' In October 1985, Palestinian terrorists hijacked the Italian cruise ship A c h ille L a u ro .  The U.S. Navy intercepted the fleeing terrorists’ airplane, only to be stymied by the Italian gover