lable military option, this time it had the capability and will to execute it. Without the capability or will, the compellent pressure would not have been generated. 419  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 432 --- CHAPTER NINE CONCLUSION For far too long, advocates and critics have taken the discussion of air power to extremes. Robin Higham aptly described the situation: The history of air power has also been confused by the bragging of its prophets and the derision of its enemies. Too often vision has outrun reality and resulted in disappointment and reaction. As newcomers, forced to plead from a position of weakness, airmen carried arguments to their logical extremes and talked about what air power was going to be able to do; and their listeners tended to forget that these were prognostications, accepting them instead as imminent realities.' Consequently, the discussion of strategic bombing has tended to focus on the wrong question: can strategic bombing win a war? Guilo Douhet and William Mitchell may have believed so, but strategic bombing has yet to do so. Critics of air power have often relied on its failure to win a war to conclude strategic bombing is o f little value. Critics and advocates fail to grasp the deeper nature of air power. Strategic bombing may never win a war.® But this does not mean it is worthless. This study has shown that strategic bombing is context dependent. Most failed strategic bombing campaigns result from a military strategy that was not ®  O f course this begs the question as to what constitutes a "win"? All too often victory is equated with complete surrender. But not all conflicts end this way. Many limited conflicts cease in a more equivocal fashion. 420  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 433 --- properly designed to achieve the desired political objectives. Strategic bombing has often been called upon to accomplish tasks far beyond its means and/or used in confliets which it is very ill-suited. Due to a lack of un