h Vietnam and the U.S. Therefore, they gave up nothing while gaining a bombing halt from a president under intense pressure to end Rolling Thunder.'” Admittedly, North Vietnam broke the two military conditions by continuing rocket attacks and disregarding the DMZ. However, the North Vietnamese were extremely loath to agree to anything, especially anything that smacked of compromise with the U.S. They were very reluctant to even begin talks with the 223  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 236 --- U .S.'”  Thus, some authors believe military considerations forced North Vietnam to enter talks.'”  A major part of the discussions focused on bringing a halt to the bombings. Rolling Thunder could achieve little in a guerilla war, but could become a major hindrance to the prosecution of a more conventional war. After Tet the North Vietnamese Army began to assume an increasingly larger role in the fighting in South Vietnam. These forces needed considerably more supplies and support from the DRV than the mostly VC forces o f 1965. Moreover, the NVA did not fare well in the fighting over the late spring and summer o f 1968. One author believes Hanoi recognized the increasing burden the bombings posed and acted accordingly.'” If the latter explanation played a role, it would mark a shift in the infiuence o f the bombing of North Vietnam. The interdiction strategy may have finally yielded results. Unfortunately, the limited information regarding this period is open to such wide interpretation that it is impossible to conclusively state whether the bombing played a major role. Analysis of Strategic Bombing The U.S.’  overall objective was maintaining a stable, independent, non­ communist South Vietnam. Upon identifying North Vietnam as the primary source o f the fighting in South Vietnam, the U.S. government decided it was crucial to compel North Vietnam to modify its behavior. Ground forces had a dual role, prevent a military collapse of South Vietnam and decisively demon