ns had not been sufficiently weakened to allow for the move to large commando raids. But at the same time, Israel’s inferiority in manpower and artillery was beginning to show. The Israeli army simply could not inflict enough damage to Egypt’s military to limit or prevent the war, nor could it inflict enough countervalue damage to induce Egypt to stop the war as Nasser and Egypt were willing to make large sacrifices to continue the war. By July 1969, Israeli casualties began to increase rapidly. After losing 7 soldiers in June, 30 Israelis were killed and 76 were wounded in July.® ®  The Egyptians conducted a particularly successful commando raid on 10 July and claimed 40 Israeli casualties.®® Egypt’s strategy was starting to succeed. The Israeli leadership realized that at its present cost this war could not go on indefinitely. The Israeli people were becoming increasingly concerned with the mounting casualties.®’ Additionally, the Israeli leadership perceived (correctly) that the Egyptian actions were the prelude to a cross-Canal assault.®* Under increasing pressure to end, or at least lessen, this attritional warfare which presented the distinct possibility o f continuing a long time, Israel decided to esealate the conflict. Air power would be Israel’s new offensive weapon. 126  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 139 --- Israeli Objectives and Strategy During 1969 The decision to escalate stemmed from Israel’s larger objectives. Israel’s grand political goal was actually quite simple, maintain the status quo, while expending as few resources as possible, until a favorable peace settlement could be arranged.®" The Israelis believed the Six Day War had brought them a position of strategic superiority. The Israeli government wanted some form of settlement to codify this superiority and were willing to give up much of the Sinai in exchange for a peace treaty."" But Israel wanted to maintain the status quo in the face of military pressure. Israel had been force