even surface- to-air missiles needed to annihilate South Vietnam’s Army as well as seize and hold territory. While this increased the NVA’s raw military power, it also created logistical problems. Unlike the NVA/VC forces during Rolling Thunder, these units needed large amounts of supplies that could only come from outside sources. In 1972, it was much easier for aerial interdiction to have a significant affect on the military situation in South Vietnam. Thus, instead of relying on a classic economic infrastructure strategy. Linebacker I initially emphasized interdiction. O f special importance was closing o f the port of Haiphong, which meant that Soviet imports of weapons and supplies dropped precipitously. Linebacker I was able to totally disrupt the transportation network within North Vietnam. Once the Easter Offensive had been defeated, the bombing shifted to more o f an economic infrastructure attack to severely damage 246  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 259 --- North Vietnam’s ability to support the war, which had also grown in importance since 1968. Tactical bombing has often been overlooked in the discussion o f how air power led to the settlement. In fact, tactical bombing played a critical role in thwarting the Easter Offensive. With little air defense protection, U.S. planes had a field day against North Vietnam’s massed tanks, infantry, and artillery units. Aerial bombing provided the firepower to break up attacks on many occasions throughout South Vietnam. Tactical air support inflicted upwards o f half o f all NVA tank and personnel losses during this offensive.'^ The success of air power in compelling North Vietnam was undoubtedly aided considerably by the tactical bombing. The combination o f Linebacker I and the tactical bombing demonstrated that U.S. air power could prevent North Vietnam from a military conquest o f South Vietnam. For the first time, air power had achieved military denial in Vietnam. Military denial also played a role i