ult o f careful study of the ccTnflict’s entire environment and then precisely coordinating military, diplomatic, and political moves, which the center of gravity concept does not provide. In fact, the CoG theory actually should be part of a larger theory regarding compellence because it is more of a tool to identify targets than to develop strategy. Targeting and strategy are not synonymous. Mitchell may have wanted to destroy the economic infrastructure, but he really was interested in depriving a state o f its ability to wage war. Analyzing strategy rather than targeting provides deeper insights into the mechanisms involved with military force and compellence. 449  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 462 --- Understanding how to develop proper strategy will lessen the problem policy­ makers face in integrating military and political objectives. Consequently, I am more interested in discussing strategies than merely targeting. My Shift in the Approach Robert Pape’s primary contribution to the theory is that he expanded the discussion o f military denial from targeting into larger strategy issues. Consequently, he has produced some of the best theory on strategic bombing and compellence by stating that exploiting military vulnerability o f the opposing state is the best way to achieve compellence. His analysis is astute, but falls short by not emphasizing what I feel is the key to developing compellent strategy with bombing, denigrating the effect of pain too much, and failing to account for the success o f the shock strategy. Pape believes that denying military capability is the most effective way to produce compellent leverage. Quite often, this is correct. Conventional ordnance can not inflict a degree of pain needed to achieve compellence (although nuclear weapons can) as states are highly resistant to compellent pressure. More important, Pape recognizes that bombing strategies which deny an opposing state its ability to defend or seize territory have the