File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 1 --- INFORMATION TO USERS This manuscript has been reproduced from the microfilm master. UMI films the text directly from the original or copy submitted. Thus, some thesis and dissertation copies are in typewriter face, while others may be from any type o f computer printer. The quality of this reproduction is dependent u p o n  th e quality o f the copy subm itted. Broken or indistinct print, colored or poor quality illustrations and photographs, print bleedthrough, substandard margins, and improper alignment can adversely affect reproduction. In the unlikely event that the author did not send UMI a complete manuscript and there are missing pages, these will be noted. Also, if unauthorized copyright material had to be removed, a note will indicate the deletion. Oversize materials (e.g., maps, drawings, charts) are reproduced by sectioning the original, beginning at the upper left-hand comer and continuing from left to right in equal sections with small overlaps. Each original is also photographed in one exposure and is included in reduced form at the back o f the book. Photographs included in the original manuscript have been reproduced xerographically in this copy. Higher quality 6” x  9” black and white photographic prints are available for any photographs or illustrations appearing in this copy for an additional charge. Contact UMI directly to order. UMI A Bell & Howell Infoimation Company 300 North Zed) Road, Ann A rbor MI 48106-1346 USA 313/761-4700 800/521-0600  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 4 --- ABSTRACT Title of Dissertation: CONVENTIONAL STRATEGIC BOMBING AND COMPELLENCE David Robert Klubes, Doctor o f Philosophy, 1996 Dissertation directed by; Professor George Quester Department o f Government and Politics Previous studies of coercion/compellence have generally failed to appreciate the relevancy of military strategy to success. Recognizing whether a proper military option exists is critical to compel