y important as they would soften domestic criticism o f the war by reducing U.S. involvement and casualties.” Vietnamization was the term used to describe U.S. efforts to turn the war over to the South Vietnamese. The U.S. hoped that a large aid operation, combined with military advising and political reform, would strengthen the South Vietnamese armed forces enough to take over the burden of the ground war. The U.S. would first accelerate efforts to buildup South Vietnam’s army (the ARVN, Army o f the Republic of Vietnam) while it withdrew the U.S. ground forces. U.S. air and naval support would then withdraw, leaving only U.S. advisors to the ARVN.^® ®  Although neither wanted to leave a situation in which the South Vietnamese government would immediately collapse, Nixon and Kissinger differed as to their respective envisioned end result. Nixon felt U.S. policy could lead to a permanent South Vietnam, much like the Korean War armistice led to a viable, stable South Korea. On the other hand, Kissinger was skeptical about South Vietnam’s post- U.S. survivability. This difference was also reflected in their respective beliefs regarding concessions needed for a settlement. Kissinger was more willing to make the concessions needed for a settlement regardless o f their affect on South Vietnam. Nixon tended to be more concerned with how the concessions would affect South Vietnam’s ability to survive. For examples of Nixon/Kissinger’s beliefs see Stephen Ambrose, Nixon: The Triumph o f a Politician. 1962-1972. Vol. II, (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1987), 324; Alan Goodman, The Lost Peace. (Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 1978), 87 & 109; and John Ehrlichman, Witness to Power. (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1982), 316. 252  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 265 --- The negotiated settlement would help maintain U.S. prestige in the face o f a withdrawal and theoretically codify Hanoi’s intention to end the war. The U.S. negotiating position was based on K