ate used their respective air forces with firmness and strength that could dramatically affect the course of the war. One primary reason for this was mutual deterrence. Both states realized their prized strategic assets were extremely vulnerable. Consequently, both sides probably hoped that if they displayed restraint, the other would as well. This rationale worked reasonably well. Even as the war escalated, each side did so only incrementally and did not press their attacks with full tenacity which would indicate a no-holds-bar-win-at-all-costs mentality.® ®  Interestingly, Khomenei and his minions did not accept that mentality when it came to the lives of their subjects. Tens of thousands Iranians died in futile charges against powerful Iraqi defenses. Apparently, Khomenei was willing to accept enormous casualties, but was not as willing to lose Iran’s economic infrastructure. 355  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 368 --- Although mutual deterrence partially explained the lack o f tenacity, it was also due to the limited military capabilities on each side. The upheavals and purges caused by the 1979 Revolution weakened the Iranian Air Force (IIAF) severely. The IIAF was well stocked with high-quality American planes but the seizure o f the U.S. embassy deprived Iran of spare parts and technical support. Meanwhile, the Iraqi Air Force was limited by less effective aircraft and poor training. But what plagued both sides was simply inexperience and insufficient expertise to mount a large, sustained aerial campaign that targeted the other’s strategic assets. Such a campaign would require detailed planning, adept command and control to coordinate the majority of the flyable aircraft in each state, ability to launch large numbers of sorties on individual strikes and on a sustained basis, quality intelligence gathering to identify targets, and a willingness to accept losses to achieve the mission. These traits, all indicative of a professional force, were in sho