noi, it actually achieved considerably less than Linebacker I. After the DRV concession in October 1972, North Vietnam and the United States agreed in principle to a treaty. However, the South Vietnamese government then balked and stalled the treaty negotiations, demanding additional changes. North Vietnam responded by terminating discussions.^ To force Hanoi back to the original treaty stipulations and to allay South Vietnamese fears o f a U.S. desertion, Nixon ordered a massive, swift bombing campaign concentrating on Hanoi and Haiphong.'® Most o f the sorties hit strictly military targets such as railroad yards, military storage facilities, airfields and air defense systems, although some electrical power production facilities were also bombed." After eight days, the North Vietnamese indicated their willingness to resume talks. Three days later Nixon halted the bombings. The resumed discussions quickly led to the signing o f a peace treaty on 27 January 1973.'^ 245  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 258 --- The important analysis is to determine the mechanisms for Linebacker I & II’s successes after the abject failure of Rolling Thunder. Linebacker I’s effectiveness was due to its ability to deny military capability. However, the bombing campaigns in 1972 benefitted enormously from the vastly different nature of the fighting in South Vietnam. The Tet Offensive and smaller offensives in 1968 marked the end of the Viet Cong as an influential military factor and as an insurgency/guerilla force. Therefore, North Vietnam had to shift to more conventional warfare to achieve its objectives. The DRV would have to physically occupy South Vietnam rather than undermine its government. By 1972, the NVA forces in South Vietnam were replete with tanks, heavy artillery and even surface- to-air missiles needed to annihilate South Vietnam’s Army as well as seize and hold territory. While this increased the NVA’s raw military power, it also created logistical problems. Unl