e.pdf --- Page 328 --- Islamic, and world communities. Second, he wants to weaken Western influence wherever possible. To fulfill these two objectives, he wants to overturn the international order, thereby strengthening the poorer Third World states (especially Libya), while weakening the industrial West. Third, he wants to unite the Arab nation (under his rule of course). Lastly, he urgently yearns for the eradication of Israel.^' Qaddafi’s primary foreign policy goal is to increase Libya’s status in the Arabic, Islamic, and global communities. This ambition blends with his aspirations of forging a united Arab nation because he wants to lead the greater Arabic nation. Qaddafi hoped to inherit the mantle of Arab nationalism from Gamel Nasser, Egypt’s leader from 1958 to 1970, and to unite the Arabs under his revolutionary vision. This generated considerable friction with the more powerful and influential Arab states, such as Egypt and Saudi Arabia. However, a string of failures during the past 25 years has led to the other Arab governments generally dismissing his objective o f Arab unityQaddafi  also covets the expansion of Libyan influence and power into Sub-Saharan Africa. He especially wants to eliminate the vestiges o f Western influence in the post-colonial Africa and replace it with his ideology. Islam plays a somewhat lesser role because Qaddafi is not a religious fundamentalist. However, he does view Libya’s oil wealth as a gift from Allah to fight the enemies o f Islam, i.e. the Western imperialists. Moreover, Islam is tied into his notion of Arab nationalism, as his envisioned greater Arab nation would be Islamic. The net result of Libya’s actions based on Qaddafi’s ideals is considerable tension, friction, and even open conflict with not only the West but also the other Arabic and African states. 316  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 329 --- Nonetheless, his policy on sub-Saharan Africa waxes and wanes as other issues dominate his attention/ Qad