nal. This geographic limitation, when combined with the focus on attacking the air defense system, left the lAF with the only option of attriting fielded military forces. Again, Israel was not able to fully exploit any vulnerability, and by the summer o f 1970 Egypt’s vulnerabilities were diminishing. The Soviet and Egyptians were not deterred by the lA F’s success in May. In early June, the Egyptians tried to sneak some SAMs close to the Canal under the cover of darkness to ambush Israeli planes at dawn, but the lAF eliminated them without much difficulty.'®® The Soviets and the Egyptians made another large- scale attempt on 29 and 30 June, when they rushed 14 batteries o f SAMs along with large numbers o f anti-aircraft guns into an area in the desert some 20 km west of the Suez.'®'* This was the first time Soviet manned missile batteries reached operational status outside inner Egypt. This box featured a network o f mutually supporting missile batteries and anti-aircraft guns of a density not seen before. Moreover, the Soviets/Egyptians decided to launched four or five missiles at each plane instead of the previous tactic of just one or two missiles. While expensive, it made the task of avoiding missiles more difficult for Israeli pilots.'®® The new tactics quickly yielded success as on 30 June the batteries accounted for 2 F-4 Phantoms, the first planes shot down with missiles since the 147  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 160 --- 1967 W ar.'” ®  The lAF succeeded in destroying some SAM batteries, but the Soviet resupply effort was greater than Israel’s ability to destroy SAM sites. The lAF spent July desperately attempting to wipe out the SAM box. Although inflicting a fearsome destruction on Soviet and Egyptian forces, during the raging battle Israel lost three more F-4s.'”®  The shock to Israel and the lAF over these losses was profound. The lAF was not that large, numbering only some 180 front­ line aircraft, with some 40 Phantoms.'”®  The lAF reli