nd to close its harbors and deny transportation routes into/from China. Option B was to continue with the current strategy o f slowly escalating the bombing. Option C called for shifting the emphasis to interdiction in southern DRV. Not surprisingly, the Joint Chiefs supported Option A and McNamara argued for Option C. Johnson, as usual, choose the middle ground. Option B.'^’ The newly approved targeting package of 20 July 1967 reflected the continuing slow squeeze approach. New targets included bridges, a rail yard, and barracks and supply areas, in the Hanoi and Haiphong vicinity, but not within 10 miles o f Hanoi’s center.'^® Meanwhile, Senator John Stennis called for hearings on the conduct o f the Vietnam War in his Armed Services Committee. It was widely known that Stennis would be sympathetic to the generals and admirals’ pleas for relaxing restrictions. Therefore, just before the start of the hearings in August, McNamara and Johnson expanded Rolling Thunder to upstage military and senatorial criticism. Besides bombing more transportation infrastructure targets (i.e., bridges, rail yards) and a thermal power plant, Johnson allowed strikes to within 10 miles of Hanoi and inside the buffer zone along the Chinese border. Nevertheless, McNamara, and by extension Johnson, took a beating in the Stennis Hearings.'''" As expected, the military expressed its displeasure with the restrictions and gradual escalation of Rolling Thunder. They believed the bombings 215  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 228 --- were successful and would be even more so if the restraints were dropped. McNamara followed their testimony by repudiating Rolling Thunder’s ability to have a significant affect, regardless of whether the restrictions were relaxed. The senators concluded the military’s perception of Rolling Thunder was more accurate and recommended escalation.''" Johnson now felt the pressure to follow advice from his military people rather than McNamara’s increasingly dovis