ibuting to the disintegration o f the Japanese economy. Still, the main effort continued to be the firebombings. The nuclear attacks were simply a continuation of the incendiary campaign. Six days after the bomb fell on Nagasaki, the Japanese government surrendered. The reasons for the 61  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 74 --- surrender are multifold and are still open to debate. Some point to the atomic weapons as the decisive factor. Others contend the atomic bombs were not even needed because Japan was going to surrender anyway due to the American victories in the Pacific and the Soviet Union’s entry into the war in August 1945.'” Nevertheless, there is little doubt that the incendiary campaign played some role in the surrender decision. Indeed, the AAF leadership believed the strategic bombing, specifically the incendiary campaign, played a decisive role in the Pacific campaign. The destruction of cities apparently could shatter an opponent’s ability and will to resist. Besides the direct damage, the bombings compounded the supply problems caused by the submarine interdiction to bring the Japanese economy virtually to a halt."® The firebombings also brought the war directly to the Japanese population and there was a noticeable decline in morale (although not a collapse) attributable to the bombing."® The enormous destruction did not go unnoticed by the Japanese government. At least some of the governmental actors were swayed by the leveling of Japan’s cities."’ The devastation of Japan’s cities, the nuclear attacks, and the subsequent surrender affirmed the beliefs of many strategic bombing advocates. It also marked a progression toward the legitimization of the destruction o f cities as part of American strategy. Massive firebombing raids and nuclear weapons now allowed an annihilation strategy as Douhet envisioned to be executed. Although the American Air Force was wedded to the concept o f eliminating the ability to resist 62  File: --- klubes_comp