War, the 1983 U.S. strike on Lebanon, and the Persian Gulf War. Although there are additional examples of strategic bombing as a compellent tool, space limitations preclude their inclusion. The focused case comparison method is not particularly suited to the creation of falsifiable empirical theory and statistically based predictions o f the probability o f events or outcomes occurring. Consequently, analysis will be in the form of observations and conclusions. However, like the results o f other works using this methodology, the strength o f the argument will show that the conclusions will add to the body of academic research on the subject and should be pondered by those who plan on employing strategic air power. There will be limitations on this work’s scope. First, this dissertation will focus on the operational aspect of strategic bombing. This limits the work to "active" (or "physical") compellence, in other words, only when military force is actually used. On the other hand, "peaceful" compellence, which relies solely on threats o f military force to force a state to modify its behavior or to obtain territory, is not included. Likewise, some other uses of strategic bombing are not discussed. For example, strategic bombing as a deterrent mechanism will not be included.'® 16  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 29 --- Basically, deterrence aims to prevent an intolerable action from occurring, unlike compellence’s goal of changing the status quo. This dissimilarity vastly alters the conditions needed for success. Deterrence is considered easier to accomplish, therefore successful deterrence strategies can be substantially different from successful compellent strategies.’’ Deterrence is a distinct enough subject to require separate analysis. Finally, the concept of nuclear coercion/compellence is not included. This may seem odd considering that over the past forty years civilian and military theorists have exerted an enormous amount of brainpower to determi