tralize a target. A small group of planes armed with precision-guided munitions can easily destroy vital choke points, such as bridges, and disable complex industrial systems such as electrical power grids by hitting a few critical components. For example, during the Gulf War, the U.S. reduced Iraq’s electrical production by some 85 percent with only 345 sorties (and many o f these were unguided munitions).® The Gulf War demonstrated that widespread use o f smart bombs can quickly cripple the ®  Smart bombs consist of all aerial weapons, mainly bombs and cruise missiles, which have mid-flight guidance capability. 442  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 455 --- industrial production and infrastructure o f a modem state. Indeed, there is some speculation that the deterrence generated by the threat o f punishment with precision- guided munitions can be sufficient to replace the deterrence gained by nuclear weapons/ Instead o f pressure as Douhet and Trenchard envisioned via direct destruction o f housing and deaths of civilians, smart weapons could put an enormous amount of indirect pressure on the civilians, and hence, the leaders o f the targeted state. Neutralizing the key infrastructure and energy production sites with only minimal collateral damage adheres to the laws o f war, yet can plunge a modem society back to 19th century living standards.Post-W orld War II studies discovered the deprivation o f basic 20th century amenities such as electricity, clean water, ease o f transportation, etc. had an affect on German civilian morale.'” These deprivations would make the daily life o f many urbanized civilians much more difficult. In addition, a modem economy would grind to a halt with the loss of power, transportation, and communications. The damage to the state would be immense. Because the amount of pain inflicted with smart weapons could be significantly more than unguided weaponry, it is possible that a punishment or pulverization strategy relying on prec