Just prior to the start o f the ground war, the Soviet Union attempted to broker a diplomatic solution. This effort had the most potential for a settlement because Iraq apparently was backing off its demands of linkage with the Palestinian question. The U.S. rejected the offer, claiming a disagreement over the timetable for an Iraqi withdrawal. The U.S. wanted a fast withdrawal which would not allow Iraq to remove its heavy weapons and equipment."® This indicates the U.S. was as much concerned with destroying Iraq’s military capability as with liberating Kuwait. If the U.S. simply wanted to liberate Kuwait it probably would have pursued this diplomatic avenue more fully. Yet because one of the primary objectives was the destruction o f the Iraqi military, a withdrawal in late February would give Hussein a partial victory. Hussein’s shrinking conditions for a settlement may have been due to the strategic bombing campaign’s effectiveness. Any compellent pressure gained by the aerial campaign probably resulted more from the denial of military capability than punishment. Hussein’s primary objective was to retain power and then, in descending order, to keep Kuwait, negotiate a favorable settlement, or lose a quick war relatively painlessly. Without a doubt, the aerial campaign undermined Iraq’s military strength. The bombing had inflicted considerable damage to Iraq’s military 503  File: --- klubes_compellence.pdf --- Page 516 --- and economic infrastructure as well as to its fielded military forces. However, there is much debate over precisely how much damage air power inflicted on the Iraqi Army. Assessments vary widely.* Regardless of the exact damage to the fielded military forces, it was abundantly clear that the bombing had undermined Iraq’s ability to support its army. This also meant that Hussein’s base o f power and Iraq’s ability to hold Kuwait was reduced seriously. Thus, the aerial campaign threatened Hussein’s most important goals, holding power and retainin