nuing development of bombs and bombsights and the training of bombardiers to achieve “pickle barrel” accuracy in all weather. General Arnold pushed his commanders by telling them, “Efficiency in winning the war is our goal, and, in bombing, efficiency and precision are synonymous.” AAF equipment was capable of “precision beyond the fondest dreams of a few years ago,” but this potential could not be realized without “tactics and techniques to match the equip- ment.” The result of this combination would be increased accuracy, meaning more bombs on target, “one mission per vital target instead of two or three,” and an “actual saving in lives and effort.”2  File: --- crane_bombs.pdf --- Page 120 --- 102  CHAPTER  SIX Early in the war, improvements in bombing accuracy were mainly the result of improved tactics and techniques, not of technological innovation. American airmen had confidence in their equipment, especially their Nor- den bombsights, estimated to be six to eight times more accurate than the “simpler, less precise” Mark XIV bombsights used by the RAF. Only about 5 percent of the British bombs landed within a mile of their aiming point under combat conditions early in the war, but the cocky Americans expected 90 percent to get that close and 40 percent within 500 yards.3 They had much work to do to refine their bombing methods, however. During the first half of 1943, the Eighth Air Force put only 14 percent of their bombs within 1,000 feet of their targets. Poor visibility, fighter attacks, inexperi- ence, poor training, flak, and camouflage led to errant attacks. The rapid in- crease in the number of American airmen in Britain made training aircrews and maintaining their proficiency especially difficult. Sometimes bad luck contributed: The lead bombardier might be shot down or his bombsight could malfunction. Other problems resulted from the inherent difficulty of handling large bombing formations, as following groups always bombed with less accuracy than lead