ee posthumously), the most for any AAF/USAF mission. Any operation that costs one-third of the force, does not inflict decisive damage, can not be followed up, and merits the award of five of the nation's highest decoration deserves sharp criticism. Probably the raid's most important positive result was that it forced the Germans to divert resources to defend this vital target. The other mission two and a half weeks later and on the first anniversary of AAF operations from Britain was against two key targets, bearing plants at Schweinfurt and a fighter factory at Regensburg. As early as 1941 the British had considered attack- ing bearings, which appeared to be an ideal target because they were indispensable in all mechanized military equipment and produc- tion was concentrated in seven plants that turned out 80 percent of German bearings. The plants at Schweinfurt were believed to produce half of the total Axis bearing production and were listed for attack in the CBO plan. In early August British and American planners generated a plan that called for an AAF day raid followed by an RAF night assault, but bad weather foiled this effort. Therefore the Eighth proceeded alone, combining the Schweinfurt mission with an attack on another high-priority  CHAPTER 5 U.S. STRATEGIC BOMBING IN EUROPE 113 target, an aircraft factory at Regensburg. The plan called for one unit (4th Wing) to hit the more distant Regensburg target and, in a first, fly on to Africa. The 4th would be followed by the 1st Wing, which would strike three factories in Schweinfurt and then return to Britain. The planners expected that the Regensburg mission would attract the bulk of the defenders inbound to the target and then surprise the defenders when it exited to the south. Meanwhile the Schweinfurt force would slip toward its target while the GAF was distracted. The mission would include fighter escort for the Regensburg force prior to the target and escort for the returning Schweinfurt bomb- ers. Ther