ould have been less costly in civilian lives, although it would have taken months longer. Strategic Bombing and Morality Having discussed the strategic bombing of World War II, the mass deaths of civilians and the attacks on Hamburg, Dresden, Tokyo, Hiroshima, and Nagasaki, the issue of morality must be addressed. Strategic bombing kills civilians because noncom- batants are frequently intermixed with combatants, aircrews make errors, munitions  CHAPTER 6 Chapter 7 and bombing systems malfunction, and key strategic targets are usually in or near cities and populations in the enemy's homeland. In addition sometimes civilians are directly targeted to attack their morale. Does intent alter the equation? That is, does the goal of the bombing matter? Is the killing of civil- ians while aiming at a military or economic targets justified? Is it acceptable to aim at the population with the intent of terrorizing civilians to break or lower their morale? In any event, are all civilians innocent? Certainly babies are. But are war workers, be they men, women, or even children? Are those who support the war with their labor, taxes, voices, and votes innocent? What of the citizens of the conquering nation who benefit from the wars, or those who acqui- esce in their government's actions? Are these people anymore innocent than draftees in the military? Moralists critical of strategic bombing should consider the results of the World War I Allied blockade that starved to death 800,000, certainly mostly women, children, and old men. (Strategic bombing in World War II probably killed at least 600,000 in a war in which 50 million or so were killed.) While this does not excuse the situation, it provides some context. That is, the great evil is not strategic bombing but war itself. Lead- ers should consider the proportionality of their acts, that the hoped for destruction of a target is both probable and worth the death of, or risk to, nearby civilians. Numbers do count, but what is the p