geting, mission profiles, and munitions. For a detailed account of the development of Amer­ ican incendiary tactics, see John W. Mountcastle, "Trial by Fire: U.s. Incendiary Weapons, 191&-1945" (Diss., Duke University, 1979). 39 Webster and Frankland, Strategic Air Offensive 1: 297.  File: --- pape_coercion.pdf --- Page 103 --- Bombing to Win German cities by producing not many small fires but great city-destroying "fire storms." Harris's strategy was to husband resources for periodic mas­ sive strikes on one city at a time.40 He also supported the development of navigation techniques that could dependably locate the centers and resi­ dential areas of cities. Following a series of small, experimental raids against Essen (8 March), Cologne (13 March), Lubeck (28 March), Rostock (23 April), and Stuttgart (4 May), the incendiary campaign began in earnest with the "thousand bomber" raid against Cologne on 30 May. This raid was by far the most dev­ astating of the war up to that point, destroying as much of the city as had 70 previous raids combined. Incendiary raids continued until on 24 July 1943 Harris finally achieved his goal of creating a fire storm, which largely de­ stroyed the city of Hamburg; it was the first time in history such an inferno was produced by air attack. This single raid destroyed one-third of the houses of the city and killed between 60,000 and 100,000 people. The RAF proceeded to destroy one major urban center after another, leaving only cities in the extreme eastern part of the Reich unscathedY Late in the war, the U.S. Army Air Forces joined the morale bombing cam­ paign. Some effort was made to disguise the purpose of these raids. For ex­ ample, railroad yards or administrative centers were nominally designated as the "military" targets of the strikes. That these were usually located in city centers, however, and the large fraction of incendiaries in the bombloads shows that the principal aim was to wreak havoc directly on civilians.42 40 "Th