t-up areas, not, for instance, the dockyards or aircraft factories. . . . This must be made quite clear if it is not already understood."22 Sir Arthur Harris, who was to become head of Bomber Command on February 23, indicated that he, at least, had no misunderstanding on this point. The decision by the British to adopt a straightforward strategy of area or indiscriminate bombing of Germany (in other words, the systematic devas- tation of German cities) after 1942 was obviously a landmark in the evolution of warfare and more particularly the concept of total war. Over the next three years, about three-quarters of the bombs dropped on Germany by Great  13 The Crescendo of Bombing Ethics and Airpower in World War II 12 a still depressing one in three.24 The conclusion seemed to be, then, that if Great Britain were to continue its strategic bombing offensive against Germany, the only feasible targets were large urban areas, where the prob- lems of inaccuracy would be much less compelling. Since few, if any, of the major figures in the Government were inclined simply to call a halt to the bombing offensive-particularly as it was the only major evidence at the time of Britain's determination to carry on the war effort-the turn to indiscriminate bombing followed almost as a matter of course. Britain were against area targets. How to account for the adoption of such a momentous course of action? A rather curious mix of emotional, political, technical, and theoretical considerations seems to have been involved. For some there was clearly the feeling that the Germans had after all initiated city attacks-first with the bombing of Warsaw, then the assault on Rotterdam in May 1940 (which was said to have caused 30,000 fatalities), and finally with the blitz on Britain itself. Extending in its most intense form from the fall of 1940 to the spring of 1941, the Blitz eventually resulted in some 50,000 tons of bombs being dropped on British cities, which led to about 40,000 civilian