e, ha much to tell us about the peculiar institution of war. Yet he also offered moral definition of the practice of war that has been the bane of thoughtful analysts of ethics in wartime ever since. Clausewitz wrote that "war is an act of force which theoretically can have no limits." As if this invitation to undifferentiated violence were not enough, he went on to deny that what he sometimes called "philanthropic" principles could ever be logically used to restrain the instrumentalities of war: "Attached to force are certain self-im- posed imperceptible limitations hardly worth mentioning, known as interna tional law and custom, but they scarcely weaken it. ... To introduce the principle of moderation into the theory of war itself would always lead to logical absurdity." Particularly important to this argument was the concept of preemption. In what Clausewitz called the principle of "reciprocal action," the tendency toward ever more ruthless types of military activity is justified, or at least to 133 be expected, on the premise that the enemy will likely do the same if given the chance. In this inversion of the Golden Rule, the idea was to do unto others before they did unto you. Clausewitz's calculation simply was that "the ruthless user of force who shrinks from no amount of bloodshed must gain an advantage if his opponent does not do the same." From this perspec- tive, Clausewitz concluded, those "kindhearted people" who tried to place limits on the tools of war could make a brutal enterprise even more chaotic, for "war is such a dangerous business that the mistakes which come from kindness [can be] the very worst."3 Among later military figures who evidently adopted these dicta as oper- ating principles was General William Tecumseh Sherman. In defending his tactics in the American Civil War, which included the burning of Atlanta and the mass destruction visited on a wide swath of the South during his march to the sea, Sherman argued that "war is cruelty and yo