mmander, Lt. Gen. Frank M. Andrews, and he also concurred. Meanwhile, the RAF members of the    •Actually, this was a reflection of the total number of aircraft scheduled for delivery.    76     PLANNING THE WAR FOR EUROPE    committee made similar presentations to Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles F. A. Portal, Chief of the Air Staff of the Royal Air Force.  General Eaker took the plan to Washington and personally turned it over to the Joint Chiefs of Staff on April 20, 1943. In a masterful briefing made without reference to written matter, he won their approval and personal commendation for his performance.  Change in the Casablanca Directive  After the plan for the Combined Bomber Offensive was referred to General Andrews, and apparently after General Eaker left for Washington, a sentence was added to the Casablanca Directive. The source of the change is not clear, but it seems likely to have been added by Air Chief Marshal Portal. This new sentence read: “This is constructed as meaning so weakened as to permit combined operations on the Continent.” The original Casablanca Directive, approved by the Combined Chiefs of Staff, President Roosevelt, and Prime Minister Churchill, did not include this sentence. It is hard to believe that the approved directive could have been altered without their knowledge. But there is no proof that their concurrence was either sought or received.  Unaware of the change, the planning team that developed the CBO plan used the original Casablanca Directive as the air objective. Quoting from the plan circulated to the Combined Chiefs of Staff on May 15, 1943:  b Problem : To provide a plan to accomplish, by a combined U.S. -British air offensive, the “progressive destruction and disloca- tion of the German Military, industrial, and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened;” as directed by the Combined Chiefs of Staff at Casablanca.  No re