n Slessor, Assistant Chief of Air Staff for Policy. Eaker and Jack Slessor were close friends, and they shared a common view of air power. It was Slessor who had provided for “a sustained air offensive against Germany” as a key element in the joint strategy of the American- British Conference (ABC-1) agreed upon in February of 1941. Eaker had kept Slessor abreast of American strategic thinking. Slessor was thoroughly familiar with AWPD-1 and AWPD-42 and the objectives expressed in both American plans. He was thoroughly familiar with the target systems of each, the tactics proposed, and results expected. Eaker and Slessor were eye to eye in terms of airpower’s contribution to victory and the place of strategic air power in grand strategy. Slessor said American plans and objectives had great merit, though they may have been somewhat optimistic in some respects.  Slessor’s document, “The Casablanca Directive,” specified vigor- ous prosecution by both British and American air forces toward a common grand strategic objective, optimizing the special strength and capabilities of each air force toward that common goal. As described in the directive, the ultimate objective of British and American strategic air forces was: “The progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened.” Pending preparation and approval of a plan for the Combined Bomber Offensive, the Casablanca Directive called for destruction or neutral- ization of:    a. German submarine construction yards.  b. The German aircraft industry.    72     PLANNING THE WAR FOR EUROPE    c. German transportation.  d. German oil plants.  e. Other targets of war industry.  These targets were taken directly out of AWPD-1 and AWPD— 42, with one important omission: German electric power. That target, however, could be included in “other targets of war indu