a complicated maneuver. Rosey suggested the plan be simplified by using only one axis of attack, with Fujiyama volcano, west of Tokyo, as the initial point. I approved the change.  During preparation for the first strike, a delegation of congress- men visited my command. I was extremely busy. We seemed to be operating under one of Murphy’s laws, “Anything that can go wrong will go wrong.” I quartered the visiting congressmen in my own pyramidal tent, perched on a promontory jutting out into the sea. I issued each of them a mess kit and invited them to join me in the chow line and to wash their own kits afterward as I was doing. I must admit the chow was simply awful, but we were living on a shoestring and spending all our energies on training and preparation for the mission. I devoted as much time to the visitors as I felt able and told them of our general plans, problems, and expectations. I did not go into the details of operations and tactics. We kept those pretty close to the vest because security leaks would endanger our success and cost lives among our combat crews.  The group went back to Washington and wrote a scathing denunciation of my administrative arrangements. They also had interviewed members of my command who were 1'rom their home districts. Most of the responses were understandably flavored with apprehension about the forthcoming campaign. This problem was a forerunner of the massive difficulties that were to fall upon future American commanders in the field during the Korean and Vietnam Wars.  The first mission was laid on for November 17. At the final briefing before dawn, I made a short talk to the crews:    185     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    Stick together. Don’t let fighter attacks break up the formations.  And put the bombs on the target. If the bombs don’t hit the target all our efforts, risks, worries, and work will be for nothing. That’s what we’re here for. If we do our job, this is the beginning of the end for Japan. Put the bombs on the target