ould have further opportunity to prove your contention. How fortuitous it would be if we could, as you say, “bomb the devils around the clock.” When I see your President at lunch today, I shall tell him that I withdraw my suggestion that U.S. bombers join the RAF in night bombing, and that I now recommend that our joint day and night bombing be continued for a time.  It was, I believe, one of the most critical decisions of the war. If Prime Minister Churchill’s recommendation had stood, if Eaker’s argument had not been persuasive, the results would have entailed:  a. Standing down the Eighth Air Force for modifying equipment and retraining. The B-17s and B-24s would need to be shielded against exposing exhaust and supercharger turbine light for night operations. That would have been quite difficult because they used exhaust gas turbines to drive their superchargers and the light would    70     PLANNING THE WAR FOR EUROPE    have been quite prominent at night. Most of the guns and gunners would require removal, since they would be relatively useless at night.  b. The navigators would need training for higher expertise in celestial navigation.  c. The bombardiers would require retraining for night bombing.  d. The bombardment aircraft would need British navigation and position equipment (Gee and Oboe) pending refinement and provision of American H2X radar bombing equipment.  e. Provision would have to be made for night landing of large forces and for prevention of collision in congested air space being used by both forces.  But most important of all, it would have entailed abandonment of American grand strategy and a radical change in air strategy. Americans were convinced that solely by destruction of selected vital target systems could German war-making and war-sustaining capabili- ty be wrecked. Certainly the German Air Force could not be eliminated by night bombing; hence there could be no invasion. And the night attack of German cities might prove insufficient t