ces and delay movements directly threatening the Normandy beaches. This diversion of strategic air forces to short-term, ground-operation goals    101     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    was insisted upon by General Eisenhower over the vigorous protest of General Spaatz.  Big Week, for a variety of reasons, had achieved its basic purpose. The resistance of Luftwaffe Fighter Command was broken, but it was still capable of vicious spasms of fighting. Even so, the strategic air forces with their heavy bombers and long-range escorts could choose their targets almost anywhere in Germany and penetrate the defenses to reach them without incurring intolerable losses.  Controversy over Employment of the U.S. Strategic Air Forces  It was the supreme irony that the U.S. Strategic Air Forces, having won their crucial battle at such cost in blood and guts, having attained the “overriding intermediate objective” that had stood in the way of the primary strategic objectives, then faced an even more formidable obstacle to the prosecution of the strategic air war. This was the determination of high authorities and commanders to divert the power of the strategic air forces away from those primary objectives and apply it in a support role for the furtherance of the ground forces objective. The conflict was not simply between air and surface strategists. There were important air commanders who led the fight to use the strategic air forces for ground support. But the responsible strategic air commanders stood together in opposing such diversion.  At the end of March, the U.S. Strategic Air Forces arrayed against Axis Europe were:  groups    U.S. Eighth Air Force, heavy bombers 39  U.S. Fifteenth Air Force, heavy bombers 21  Total 60  (About 2,800 aircraft in operational units)  U.S. Eighth and Ninth Air Forces, fighters 32  U.S. Fifteenth Air Force, fighters 12  Total 44    (About 3,600 fighters)    102     EXECUTION AND EVALUATION    This force compares with AWPD-1 and AWPD-42 in the following ma