Twining.  [The figure for bomb size in the report is probably in error; it should have been 1,000-pound GP bombs rather than 100-pound GP bombs as reported.]  The operations of the 315th Wing showed conclusively that it was feasible to destroy selected targets by radar bombing when the target    244     OTHER OPERATIONS    location was well known and the radar returns of the target itself were clear or its location relative to a prominent radar feature was well known. As suggested earlier, B— 29s with AN/APQ— 7 radar systems might have been used as lead aircraft for daylight selective bombing by formations of the other B— 29s. This technique would have permitted employment of the entire force for daylight attack of selected targets even if those targets were obscured by clouds.  Effects of the Air Offensive  The U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey was able to report the effects of strategic bombing on the Japanese aircraft and engine target system, the aerial mining campaign, and attacks against selected targets in the iron, steel, and petroleum industries. On the other hand, it had trouble reporting the results of strategic bombing on Japanese war production and upon Japan’s war economy, because no related system of targets was set up by the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Twentieth Air Force as selective priority strategic targets. Nevertheless, the Bombing Survey submitted reports on a number of war production industries.  The Report on Japanese War Production Industries set forth the objectives of our strategic air force:  T To bring about an overwhelming and immediate drop in war production.  2. To shut off output of certain specific high priority items of war production.  3. To accelerate the rate of the existing decline of overall war production.  4. To force a substantial cut in production of those military supplies of such high priority that they would otherwise withstand the effects of the current restrictive economic forces.  All four of these objectives were met