. I suggested to General Arnold that the Air Staff meet the needs of the Twentieth Air Force. He agreed somewhat reluctantly. The Air Staff was part of AAF Headquarters, the parent for all the numbered air forces. To single out the Twentieth as the special concern of the Air Staff— as an operational headquarters for a combat air command— would seem to slight all the others. But General Arnold did not want another headquarters staff in Washington, so he went along with my sugges- tion. Each of the Assistant Chiefs of Air Staff (Personnel; Intelligence; Training, Materiel, Maintenance, and Distribution; Operations, Com- mitments, and Requirements; and Plans) was told to wear two hats: one for Headquarters AAF and the other for Headquarters Twentieth Air Force. Each of these Assistant Chiefs selected one senior officer to represent him on Twentieth Air Force matters. General Order No. 1, Twentieth Air Force, assigned Col. Cecil E. Combs to the A-3 Division of the Twentieth as Chief of Combat Operations. I was designated a Deputy Chief of Air Staff as well as Chief of Staff of the Twentieth. On the whole, I thought the scheme worked reasonably well.  In many ways the Twentieth had unique features and problems. There was the need to draw up and approve tables of organization and equipment and to establish tactical doctrine and standing operating procedures. This would (1) permit the handling, control, and coordi-    160     PLANNING THE WAR AGAINST JAPAN    nation of many aircraft and units, and (2) provide a basis for uniform training.  Air Staff members who served as principal staff officers for the Twentieth Air Force while I was the Twentieth’s Chief of Staff and Deputy Chief of Air Staff included:    Brig Gen. John H. McCormick Col. Woodbury M. Burgess Col. Cecil E. Combs Col. William F. McKee  Col. Llewellyn O. Ryan Lt. Col. John W. Carpenter Col. Samuel R. Brentnall  Col. Sol Rosenblatt Maj. Gen. Laurence S. Kuter Maj. Gen. David N. W. Grant Brig. Gen. Harold M. M