IR WAR    CEP bombing distribution of XXI Bomber Command for visual daylight formation bombing (1,250 feet), though this was conducted at much higher altitude. Of course, one mission does not establish a CEP that can be taken as a reliable basis for forecasting and planning. Unfortunately, the other mission reports of the 315th Wing did not contain bomb plots.  The final mission of the 315th, flown on the night of August 14/ 15, was also remarkable. The mission report stated:  TARGET: NIPPON OIL COMPANY REFINERY AT TSUCHIZAKI NEAR AKITA  This target was attacked on the 1 5th and last mission flown by the Wing, flown on the night of 14-15 August 1945 with bombs released only a few hours before the announcement by President Truman that the Japanese had accepted the United States terms.  The mission was the longest nonstop combat flight ever made, a distance of 3,740 statute miles from base at Guam to the target on the northern coast of Honshu island and return.  Postponed for several days by the peace negotiations, the mission took off, led by the Wing Commander (Brig Gen Frank Armstrong) at 1637 hours on 14 August. 143 aircraft were airborne and 134 dropped 953.9 tons of 100 pound and 250 pound GP bombs on the primary.  Results of photo-interpretation brought now familiar words: “Almost completely destroyed or damaged.” Photographs disclosed that no portion of the target was untouched. The three refining units were a tangled mass of wreckage, the main power plant still standing but seriously hit. More than 66 percent of the tank capacity was destroyed. Lesser installations, including the worker’s barracks, were destroyed.  Note: This mission was conducted by the Twentieth Air  Force, after redesignation of the XXI Bomber Command,  under the command of Lt. Gen. Nathan F. Twining.  [The figure for bomb size in the report is probably in error; it should have been 1,000-pound GP bombs rather than 100-pound GP bombs as reported.]  The operations of the 315th Wing showed c