the War Department underwent a series of reorganizations after 1939 in the face of the growing possibilities of U.S. involvement in World War II, the concept of a GHQ went out the window and with it the GHQ Air Force. The GHQ Air Force was too short lived to leave any outstanding legacy of air doctrine. But it had demonstrated in several dramatic flights that the bomber had superb flexibility and could quickly be deployed to remote bases. Significantly, despite the fight of airmen for acceptance of airpower theories, as late as 1939 the War Department was still saying: “The mission of the air component of the Army is to perform effectively the air operations devolving upon the Army in its assigned functions in the national defense. . . . Air operations beyond the sphere of action of the surface forces are undertaken in furtherance of the strategic plan of the commander of the field force.”  American Strategic Air Doctrine  The Army Air Corps had no official basis on which to promulgate air doctrine. It was a part of the U.S. Army and doctrine was issued by the War Department for all branches of the Army. Nevertheless, by    17     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    the 1930s the teachings and texts of the Air Corps Tactical School were accepted as doctrine within the Air Corps. The Army Air Corps considered that strategic air warfare embraced five optional categories:  1. a. Direct attack on enemy armed forces, including air forces on the ground and in the air; on concentration of troops; on naval and maritime elements; and on logistics in the combat zone.  b. Local air defense of friendly military forces and bases.  2. a. Indirect air attack of enemy armed forces by destroying the industrial elements which supplied and supported the enemy armed forces. Target objectives included industrial systems that made war production possible, such as:  (1) Electric power systems (generating stations, transform- er and switching stations, dams and penstocks).  (2) Natural fuel, refining, an