erman fighters were destroyed. Commanders could exercise judgment in leaving the bombers to search for the enemy, under the doctrine that such action accelerated destruction of the German Air Force.  Fighters grew more numerous, and while going to and returning    114     EXECUTION AND EVALUATION    from rendezvous they engaged and destroyed any enemy they could find. Thus a virtual stream of fighters moved along the path of the bombers from base to rendezvous to target and back to base. Increased range made this possible. By March 1944, P-38s had a potential radius of 585 miles; P-5 IBs 650 miles with two 75-gallon tanks. This was extended to 850 miles with 108-gallon tanks for P-5 Is. On May 29, 1944, P-5 Is furnished target support at Posen, Poland (over 700 miles from base) and returned accompanying the bombers. In June, P-5 Is flew escort all the way to Poltava in the Ukraine, (1,700 miles from base) where bombers and fighters landed.  Beginning in August 1944, the combat boxes of the bombers became smaller and columns longer. Fighter groups were split into two 24—aircraft units, each having its own air commander. This afforded flexibility of escort, allowing a combination of close support and sweeping tactics that could be carried on simultaneously. This was too much for the weakened Luftwaffe to fight against. Consequently, it confined its attacks to bombers that were lost, though on occasion exposed bomber groups were heavily assaulted, with severe losses. By December 1944 the whole VIII Fighter Command was operating P-5 Is, except for the 56th Fighter Group which retained P-47s. This range extension was the final phase in the transformation of a fighter force, having chiefly a protective escort function, into a much more versatile one possessing offensive and harassing capabilities as well.  Evaluating the Strategic Bombing Campaign in Europe  The strategic bombing campaign has long been a subject of intense controversy and may well remain so for years to c