Brig. Gen. Harris B. Hull USAF, Retired National Aeronautics and Space Administration  Dr. Alfred F. Hurley (Chairman) Brig. Gen., USAF, Retired North Texas State University    Dr. Haskell M. Monroe, Jr. University of Texas at El Paso  Lt. Gen. Thomas C. Richards, USAF  Commander, Air University  Gen. Thomas M. Ryan, Jr. USAF, Retired    Lt. Gen. Winfield W. Scott, Jr. USAF  Superintendent, USAF Academy    Mr. Eugene R. Sullivan The General Counsel, USAF     Preface    The history of American air power is very short indeed. Military and naval histories span thousands of years. Military aviation history is encompassed in the lifetime of a single individual. The birth of powered flight is coincident with my own. In 1912 I got my first glimpse of an airplane. I was standing on the fairgrounds of the annual carnival in Manila, Philippine Islands, when a biplane beat its slow pace across the sky. An aged Filipino standing nearby said, in astonishment, “ \Muy grande polloV or “Very large chicken!” As a boy of nine I was in full agreement.  I mention this only to make a point. Military conflict on land and sea has been exhaustively reported and analyzed for centuries. The processes are well understood. The general principles have been distilled and tested. The experience and history of air war are in their infancy. They are measured in a few decades, actually in the span of my own lifetime. There has been only one major conflict involving application of air power on a grand scale. And yet that air experience has had a profound impact upon war, and upon nations in competition and conflict short of major war. The impact of space power has no history at all, but that impact may be even greater than the impact of atmospheric air power. There is dispute over the relative merits of historical experience and of abstract logic in the development of effective combat forces. Military aviation strategists must make the best of very limited historical experience and derive requirement