part, due to good fortune. But it was also due in large measure to the years of debate at the Air Corps Tactical School and, in no less degree, to men like Harold George who had the vision to see the potential of air power and the courage to risk their careers for what they felt was right. Such vision is rare. Moral courage is rarer still, and the combination is truly priceless.  After the war, Harold George remarked to General Arnold that AWPD-1, which had forecast the number of U.S. combat groups within two percent and missed the final total of officers and men by only five and a half percent, showed some pretty accurate forecasting. “Quit slapping yourself on the back,” General Arnold said wryly. “You’re not such a smart forecaster. We just followed your plan in building the Army Air Forces. No wonder the results look the same.”  The force structure prescribed in AWPD-1 was mostly within the power and control of General Arnold, once AWPD-1 had been approved as a guide for production. But the strategic deployment and employment of those forces as laid down in AWPD-1 were chiefly outside his control. They were influenced by joint and combined commands and alliances and subject to the vicissitudes and surprises of the climate of war. These aspects of the plan fared well, but still they bore the imprint of AWPD-1. Combat experience dictated changes in tactics, but the basic strategic concepts and doctrines stood up astonishingly well. Examination and analysis of the effects of the strategic air offensive against Nazi Germany proved to be the “proof of the pudding.”    113     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    Change of Command  In December 1943 Maj. Gen. Ira C. Eaker suffered a traumatic disappointment that would have broken a man of lesser fiber. When General Eisenhower was selected to lead the invasion across the English Channel and was designated Supreme Commander, Allied Expeditionary Forces, at the Sextant Conference in Cairo in December  1943, he demanded the right to bring