The    151     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    Navy Department did not openly try to quash the upstart air membership, but it worked quietly on the premise that there were by law just two recognized military departments — the War Department and the Navy Department. General Marshall was a tower of strength in supporting General Arnold and the Army Air Forces. Still, Arnold was a subordinate Army officer and he could never afford to openly oppose Marshall. The Army Chief of Staff was universally fair and unbiased, but the Army people as a whole tended to support MacArthur just as Navy people tended to back Nimitz.  General Arnold knew that we airmen would lean toward Nimitz’s position and the Navy, if we could be assured of the capture of the Mariana Islands as base areas for B-29 strikes against Japan. If in Arnold’s absence from the next meeting, General Marshall should disagree with this approach, the AAF Chief on his return could dismiss us in good grace on the ground that we had not been instructed to take this line and had exceeded our authority. The status of the Army Air Forces and the support of Marshall could thus be preserved.  But in fact General Marshall did not take exception to the air position as I presented it on March 9, 1944. The presentation was favorably received. Subsequently, the Joint Plans Committee and the Joint Logistics Committee proposed this schedule:    Objective Command    Date    Hollandia Marianas Palau Islands Mindanao Formosa    Southwest Pacific Central Pacific Central Pacific Southwest Pacific Central Pacific    April 15, 1944 June 15, 1944 September 15, 1944 November 15, 1944 February 15, 1945    The question of Pacific strategy had not been clearly resolved, and both the rival strategies were endorsed. Achieved, however, were the capture of the Marianas as air bases and support for the B-29 operations in their air offensive against the Japanese home islands. This precipitated the vital question of how the B-29 force would be organized, com