d.    WITH NO. 4 EN- GINE FEATH- ERED, a Superfor- tress lands on Saipan after a successful mission against To-      A REINFORCED CONCRETE STRUCTURE at the Musashino aircraft engine plant escaped the brunt of the AAF bombing attacks, which severely dam- aged the weaker buildings.    BRIG. GEN. HANSELL visits with Col. Seth S. Terry of XXI Bomber Command.    195      DESPITE THE THREAT OF EXPLOSION, a ram their bulldozer into a burning B-29, pushi flames. The near-disaster was caused by a lo' attack on the Saipan airfield, November 1944.    A BULLDOZER PULLS THE TAIL OF A SUPERFORTRESS away from the burning wreckage following the Japanese raid on Saipan, November 1944.    196    EARLY OPERATIONS    right under the guns of the Japanese. From November 1944 to August 1945, 600 Twentieth Air Force flyers were saved in open-sea rescues. The system involved Navy flying boats, B-17s (Dumbos) carrying droppable lifeboats, B-29s (Superdumbos), and submarines, all under Navy control. The system was largely the achievement of my Navy Liaison Officer, Comdr. George C. McGhee.  On December 13, 1944, 74 B-29s of the 73d Wing received credit for doing significant damage to Japanese aircraft plants. Most of the bombers carried 500-pound general purpose bombs, while others were loaded with incendiary clusters. The primary target was the Mitsubi- shi engine plant at Nagoya. Photographs failed to show all the damage. Later reports disclosed that engine assembly shops and auxiliary buildings were destroyed or damaged. A total of 246 people were killed and 105 injured. Aircraft engine production capacity was reduced from 1,600 to 1,200 per month. The Mitsubishi No. 4 Engine Works no longer made parts. The Japanese also began transferring plant equipment to underground facilities. It was the most destructive mission to date for XXI Bomber Command.  The order for succeeding missions was for maximum strikes against top-priority targets by high-altitude precision bombing when weather was acc