t    Ju-88  (German)    Ki-43-Ia  (Japanese)    Ki-45-Kai-C  (Japanese)    War II. Maximum takeoff weight, 26,645 pounds. Top speed, 265 miles per hour at 13,780 feet. Combat range, 3,132 miles, was achieved by putting 1,100 gallons of fuel into the wings and furnishing no armor protection. Armament consisted of a 20-mm cannon in tail and single flexible guns in nose, rear, and belly positions. Due to heavy combat losses, later models afforded some protection for crew and fuel.  A medium-distance radionavigation system or aid. An aircraft’s position was determined by an air traffic controller viewing a scope. The system measured the difference between the time of arrival of synchronized pulses broadcast by a master and two slave stations. One of the broadcast stations was fixed on the aircraft. Developed by the British before World War II.  General Headquarters    All-metal, single-wing, twin-engine, medium bomber, built by Heinkel. Most widely used and versatile version was the He-1 1 1H-6. Five or 6 crewmembers. Bombload, 4,410 pounds. Performed a variety of roles besides that of medium bomber. For example, it became a first-rate torpedo bomber, carrying 2 of these weapons. Maximum takeoff weight was 27,400 pounds; top speed, 258 miles per hour at 16,400 feet; service ceiling, 25,500 feet; and combat range, 760 miles.  An eastern range of the Himalaya Mountains lying between China and India and Burma. Army Air Forces flew thousands of air transport missions “Over the Hump” from India to China in World War II.  Operation Iceberg was the Allied combined naval-land amphibious offensive in World War II to capture Okinawa, the largest island of the Ryukyu Islands. The objective was to take Okinawa in order to establish air bases for conducting the air war against Japan.  A point on the ground, indentified visually or by electronic means, over which an aircraft begins a bomb run or a run over a drop zone.    Twin-engine, single- wing aircraft, developed by Junkers. Four