ors, Inc., and other officials from war production listened to the presentation. There were questions and some expressions of dissent. Reserving his comment until all others had been heard, General Marshall said: “I think the plan has merit. I should like the Secretary and Assistant Secretaries to hear it.” That statement by General Marshall to General Arnold marked a crucial turning point in the evolution of American air power. This was the moment of conception of the United States Air Force. General Marshall was its godfather. He could so easily have said: “The proposal is totally out of keeping with the program for the rest of the Army. Cut it in half!” Instead he said: “I think the plan has merit.” It was a magnificent decision and a typical example of his towering character.  Briefed on September 1 with General Marshall present, Secretary of War Stimson showed a gratifying appreciation of the strategic concept. General Marshall offered encouraging comments. At last Stimson turned to Colonel George and said: “General Marshall and I like the plan. I want you gentlemen to be prepared to present it to the President.” A tentative date for the meeting and intensive preparations for the presentation were under way, when Pearl Harbor threw all arrangements into disarray. Loss of the opportunity to brief the President on the detailed plans for strategic air warfare was a cruel disappointment. It is quite likely Roosevelt’s quick intelligence would have prompted him to make detailed inquiries, and perhaps he would    40     STRATEGY, DOCTRINE, AND PLANS    have embraced the scheme with the same comprehension that characterized the reactions of Marshall and Stimson. Missing that presentation, the President never fully grasped the war-winning potential of air power.  Nonetheless, AWPD-1 became the basic blueprint for the cre- ation of the Army Air Forces and the conduct of the air war. As part of The Victory Program it was approved for production. Since the production quan