ensable to the organic functioning of the Japanese nation.  (4) To prepare for and, if necessary, to carry out urban incendiary attacks as a last resort.  c. Secondary Air Strategy. To support a surface invasion of the Japanese home islands if the air offensive failed to achieve its purpose.  I was in full agreement with this emphasis on selective targeting and precision bombing. I had been one of the authors of this policy at the Air Corps Tactical School. I had seen it work well in Europe and had devised the plans for it in that theater. I believed in it. But, after I left Washington to prepare and direct the XXI Bomber Command to carry out this strategic concept, a switch in strategic interest became apparent. In the communications I received from Washington, there was repeated reference to and stress upon incendiary urban attack. I do not know if this change was brought about by General Norstad, General Arnold, or the Committee of Operations Analysts.  Perhaps it was General Arnold. Unknown to me, Arnold harbored a lively interest in incendiary urban attack. On April 5, 1944, he wrote General Spaatz about the proposed U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey and included these remarks: “Of particular interest to me would be some idea as to the most effective mixture of high explosives and incendiaries against heavily built-up areas.” At any rate, the Committee of Operations Analysts gave incendiary urban attacks a high priority.  On December 18, the day of our first reasonably successful attack on the aircraft facilities at Nagoya, I received a directive to launch a full-scale incendiary attack on Nagoya. This was a blow. I had been    217     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    sweating blood in my efforts to make the 73d Wing a respectable precision bombing outfit, with very moderate success. We were just beginning to overcome the predilection for night area bombing, and we were just starting to show some improvement in bombing accuracy, both visual and radar. Now we were ordered to re