al cut in production of those military supplies of such high priority that they would otherwise withstand the effects of the current restrictive economic forces.  All four of these objectives were met to some degree. Strategic bombing did hasten and intensify the decline in war production, and prevented the Japanese from saving the production of high-priority items from the general decline. The report did not say from whence the objectives were derived; probably they were deduced from various    245     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    statements by military leaders and from mission directives and orders. It chose to consider Japanese “war production” as comprising six categories: aircraft industry; army ordnance; naval ordnance; naval shipbuilding; merchant shipbuilding; and the motor vehicle industry. Of these, only the aircraft industry was subjected to selective air attack.  The effects of the strategic air offensive were catastrophic in the aggregate. They stemmed from a series of interacting results of air bombardment: direct damage from bombing; indirect results of bombing reflected in frantic efforts to disperse industry; loss of basic raw materials through blockade, including aerial mining; and absen- teeism of workers whose homes had been destroyed and who had to forage for food and the essentials of life for themselves and their families.  The report gave this analysis of the selective bombing of the aircraft industry:  No figures are available for loss of production due to physical destruction of plant, machinery, and equipment. Loss of production capacity through unsuccessful attempts at dispersal (which resulted from fear induced by the early attack on airframe and engine plants) was:    Airframes 33 percent  Engines 57 percent  Propellers 42 percent  About 55 percent of the whole aircraft industry’s facilities were out of production due to dispersal alone.  For other categories of war production, the overall drop in production capacity through physical destructio