on-1 (AWPD-1), written in September 1941, had been a “contingency plan,” in case we should go to war. But AWPD-42 was essentially a “requirements” plan specifying munitions, bases, and air needs to carry out an agreed strategy. This time the requirements would include aircraft for our allies as well as ourselves, since we continued to want the wherewithal to conduct significant air operations. AWPD-42 retained the basic structure of AWPD-1. The defeat of Germany remained the first priority and the air offensive against Japan was still deferred. Unchanged was the primary strategic purpose of undermining and destroying the capability and will of Germany to wage war. This would be done by destroying the war-supporting industries and economic systems upon which the war-sustaining and political econo- my depended.  The air operations contemplated for 1943 and 1944 were:  1. An air offensive against Axis Europe to:  a. Defeat the German Air Force.  b. Destroy the sources of German submarine construction.  c. Undermine the German war-making capacity.  2. Air support of an Allied land offensive in Northwest Africa.  3. Air support of Allied nations’ land operations to retain the Middle  East.  4. Air support of surface operations in the Japanese Theater to regain base areas for a final offensive against Japan proper, including:  a. Land operations from India through China, reopening the Burma Road.  b. Amphibious operations from the South and Southwest Pacific toward the Philippine Islands.  5. Hemispheric defense, including antisubmarine patrol.  The air objectives were described as primary and intermediate, with overriding priority given to the intermediate ones:    58     PLANNING THE WAR FOR EUROPE    (German) Fighter aircraft assembly plants Bomber aircraft assembly plants Aero engine assembly plants  The primary ones were:  (German) Submarine yards  Transportation targets (rail and canal in Germany)  Electric power system  Synthetic oil plants  Aluminum plants  Synthe