nduct effective air operations in connection with hemisphere defense and a strategic defensive in the Far East.  d. The basic concept on which this plan is based lies in the application of air power for the breakdown of the industrial and economic structure of Germany. This conception involves the selec- tion of a system of objectives vital to the continued German war effort and to the means of livelihood of the German people, and tenaciously concentrating all bombing toward the destruction of those objectives. The most effective manner of conducting such a decisive offensive is by the destruction of precise objectives, at least initially. As German morale begins to crack, area bombing of civil concentrations may be effective.  e. It is improbable that a land invasion can be carried out against Germany proper within the next three years. If the air offensive is successful, a land offensive may not be necessary.  In the plan we acknowledged that the German Air Force, especially the German fighter force, would have to be defeated before an invasion could be contemplated. And such a defeat might also be necessary to the prosecution of the air offensive itself. Hence defeat of the German Air Force was accorded first priority among air objectives (‘an intermediate objective of overriding importance”), to take prece- dence over the primary air objectives themselves.  As for primary objectives, the plan called for destruction and disruption of:  a. Electric power. Disruption of a major portion of the German electric power system.  (1) Nearly all industry — civil as well as military — finds its roots in electric power. The German electric power system, the second largest in the world, was greatly expanded for this war. Even so, it is operating at a fifty-percent greater rate than that of Great Britain. It is vital to the German war effort and is highly important to civil life.  (2) The electric power system might be likened to the neuro- muscular system of the human body. D