plan?  When the next opportunity arose for presentation of a major program, General Marshall’s lesson was remembered. The planners asked themselves what was expected to be achieved with the force? What was the purpose?  Concern over Hitler’s aggressive acquisitions in Europe produced other reactions in America. In June 1941 Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson, acting on General Marshall’s recommendation, established the Army Air Forces. General Arnold, Chief of the Army Air Force, was permitted to set up a staff for the AAF resembling the War Department General Staff but at a lower level. It included Personnel, Intelligence, Operations and Training, Materiel, and Air War Plans Divisions. Lt. Col. Harold George at the time commanded the 2d Bombardment Group containing all the B-17s of the AAF (all thirteen of them). He was reassigned to Washington to organize and operate the Air War Plans Division of the Air Staff, arriving on July 14.  The next major force-structuring effort grew out of a new presidential inquiry. On July 9, 1941 — some two weeks after Hitler had mounted his massive attack on Russia — Roosevelt asked the Secretaries of War and Navy to prepare an estimate of “the overall production requirements required to defeat our potential enemies.” There was as usual a short deadline for a reply. Because the Joint Army and Navy Board could not agree upon an operational strategy, the War and Navy Departments each put together its needs separately. The burden of writing the War Department’s response fell upon the War Plans Division of the WDGS. That division proposed to estimate air requirements, coordinate them with ground requirements, and append the air details to its report as Annex 2, Air Requirements. Colonel George, Chief of the fledgling Air War Plans Division, asked that his division be allowed to prepare the Air Annex. General Arnold made the necessary arrangements.  The War Plans Group of the infant Air War Plans Division    30     STRATEGY, DOCTRINE, AND