Then an urban area system was prescribed, followed by “shipping.” After these three top priorities were three secondary target systems: coke, steel, and oil. It is surprising that these vital selective target systems should have been assigned a priority below Japanese urban industrial areas.  When I left Washington as Chief of Staff of the Twentieth Air Force, a change in strategic policy set in. The policy I had espoused, and which I believe was generally accepted, was in this vein:  a. Strategic Objective: To force Japan to acknowledge defeat and to accept our terms of surrender.  b. Primary Air Strategy : To achieve the strategic objective by applying strategic air power. More specifically:  (1) To destroy the effectiveness of the Japanese Air Force to the degree  ‘Three times more by December 3; an initial rate of four missions in ten days.    216      JAPANESE AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY     SEA OF JAPAN    M/    r ^ - H IROSH IMA* UBEI    SHIKOKU    ^1Qi& KYUSHU  IAGASAKI    HOKKAIDO    ; FUSHIKI X    TSURUGA X QJ  MAIZURU # NAGOYA SHIM12U XXXXjty  » i _•< YOKOHAMA'  ; /mu. .    PACIFIC OCEAN    X AIRFRAMES • ENGINES     OTHER OPERATIONS    where it should be incapable of offering a serious threat to our own bases and forces, or of offering effective hindrance to our strategic air offensive. To approach this objective by destroying Japanese sources of air power, using selective targeting and precision bombing.  (2) Through precision bombing, to destroy the war-making industrial structure of Japan by demolishing selected targets and systems vital to the war effort.  (3) Again, through precision bombing of selected targets, to destroy and undermine the social and economic structure of the Japanese state, by selection and annihilation of essential structures and systems indispensable to the organic functioning of the Japanese nation.  (4) To prepare for and, if necessary, to carry out urban incendiary attacks as a last resort.  c. Secondary Air Strategy. To support a surfa