ially in Burma; created a Southeast Asia Command with Adm. Lord Louis Mountbatten as Supreme Allied Commander; and acknowledged that the Battle of the Atlantic against the U-boat had turned in favor of the Allies.  Royal Air Force  An Allied naval-land-air operation to push along the northern coast of New Guinea into Mindanao, Philippine Islands.  Narrow metallic strips of various lengths which, when dropped from aircraft, created false signals on enemy radarscopes.  First planned strategic air strikes against Japan (Nakajima aircraft factory, near Tokyo urban areas).  See Cairo Conferences.  Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces  Bombing tactic accomplished by releasing one or more bombs from a plane flying at low altitude, so that the bombs glance off of the surface of the water or ground and strike the target.  special liaison unit  Four-engine monoplane developed by Short. The bomb bay of this heavy strategic bomber held a maximum load of 14,000 pounds that could be carried 590 miles. With the load reduced to 3,500 pounds, the bomber’s range was 2,010 miles. Since the bomb bay was split into sections, the heaviest bomb that could be accommodated was a 4,000 pounder. This limited the Stirling’s effectiveness. Maximum takeoff    293     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    Torch  Trident  Tripartite  Ultra  USSBS    weight was 59,400 pounds; top speed, 260 miles per hour; and combat range, 2,330 miles. Carrying a crew of 7 or 8, the Stirling Mk-III featured more powerful engines and an improved dorsal gun turret.  Operation code name for the Allied invasion of North Africa, beginning on November 8, 1942. It was the first major amphibious operation of World War II in the European Theater.  See Anglo-American Conference.  Pact German-Italian-Japanese ten-year military-economic alliance signed at  Berlin on September 27, 1940. It created the Axis powers of World War II.  During World War II the Germans used an encryption machine called Enigma. The British, assisted by the