e, moved up from 4th Bombardment Wing Commander to command the VIII Bomber Command. He and Eaker at once went to work preparing for the first assault upon the ball- bearing factories at Schweinfurt and the Me- 109 assembly plant at Regensburg. The plan for the Combined Bomber Offensive had called for the deep penetration of Germany to reach Schweinfurt as soon as it would be possible to launch a force of 300 bombers. The ball-bearing factories were so vital to Germany’s prosecution of the war and so concentrated as a target that it was resolved to attack them as early as possible, even before long-range fighters were available, lest the Germans sense their vulnerability and disperse the factories. The story of the two missions against Schweinfurt has been ably told. One of the best descriptions is that by Thomas M. Coffey in Decision Over Schweinfurt. The mission was daring and innovative. The objective was sound, as attested by Albert Speer, German Minister of Muni- tions, who said: “In those days, we anxiously asked ourselves how    85     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    soon the enemy would realize that he could paralyze the production of thousands of armaments plants merely by destroying five or six relatively small (ball-bearing factories) targets.” He was asked after the war what would have happened if there had been concerted and continuous attacks on the ball-bearing industry. He replied: “Arma- ments production would have been critically weakened after two months and after four months would have been brought completely to a standstill.”  This strategic objective was obviously well chosen. The stakes were very high and the cost was heavy. Weather destroyed the coordination of the attacks, and German fighters took their toll. Two targets in close proximity were chosen: the 1st Bombardment Wing attacked the ball-bearing factories at Schweinfurt; the 3d Wing attacked the Me- 109 factory at Regensburg and then flew on to bases in North Africa. Of the 230 bombers of the 1st