f each of the major categories of war production from peak levels to the July 1945 level is shown below:  Category Percentage drop from  peak production    Aircraft  Army Ordnance    247    57  54     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    Naval Ordnance   56   Merchant ships   82   Naval ships   53   Motor vehicles   96    There can be no doubt that the air offensive crippled Japanese war industries, even though only one of them (aircraft) was selected for direct attack. And the urban area incendiary attacks indirectly crippled other industry.  The Bombing Survey recognized another basic Army Air Forces strategic objective — one that had been clearly defined in AWPD-1 and AWPD-42, though it had been submerged by other considera- tions in later plans. This objective was not only to destroy the war- supporting structure, but the economic framework on which the Japanese state depended. The combination was meant to bring about surrender, when it became apparent to the Japanese they could no longer supply the basic needs upon which the population relied for its life and social survival.  The U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey issued a report on the effects of strategic bombing on Japan’s war economy. It concluded:  By July 1945 Japan’s economic system had been shattered. Production of civilian goods was below the level of subsistence. Munitions output had been curtailed to less than half the war-time peak, a level that could not support sustained military operations against our opposing forces. The economic basis of Japanese resistance had been destroyed. This economic decay resulted from the sea-air blockade of the Japanese home islands and direct bombing attacks on industrial and urban-area targets.  The urban-area incendiary raids had profound repercussions on civilian morale and Japan’s will to stay in the war. Sixty-six cities, virtually all those of economic significance, were subjected to bombing raids and suffered destruction ranging from 25 to 90 percent. Almost 50 percent of the are