tem (65 targets), came to 35,000 tons. This was a relatively small portion of the total effort available in March, April, and May of 1944 — before the invasion. During this period the U.S. strategic air forces flew over 60,000 bombing sorties and dropped 150,000 tons of bombs, of which only 6,080 tons was directed against petroleum targets. Thirty-five thousand tons would have been 23 percent of the tonnage dropped by these forces on targets predominantly in France during this period. The tonnage actually dropped, exclusive of the oil targets in Germany, between March 1 and May 15 was sufficient to have caused paralysis of the German electric power system before the    132     EXECUTION AND EVALUATION    invasion, and still have left 1 5 days of operations in May for attack of rail transportation in France to the extent of 96,000 tons.  I believe the answer to the question “could the German electric power system have been paralyzed before the invasion?” to be “yes.” In combination with the attacks on German transportation and synthetic petroleum systems, the result would have been even more catastrophic to the “will” and “capability” of Germany to continue the war. Whether the German electric power system could have been paralyzed before the invasion is questionable in view of General Eisenhower’s vehement support of the air attack on rail transportation in France. But it certainly could have been accomplished immediately after the invasion. German electric power had been No. 2 priority (next after the defeat of the Luftwaffe) in AWPD-1 and No. 4 priority in AWPD-42.  The chief electrical engineer in charge of design of the system volunteered this information: “The war would have been finished two years sooner if you concentrated on the bombing of our power plants.”    133      A DIRECT HIT AT THE MUSASHINO AIRCRAFT EN- GINE PLANT dug this crater and destroyed half of the industrial target, located on the outskirts of Tokyo.    134     Chapter IV    Planning the Str