nthetic oil plants. The latter can be repaired by men with cutting torches, reinforcing plates, and welding tools. But the boilers that nave been wrecked or the large steam turbines, or the electric generators, or the high voltage transformers and switches do not lend themselves to such treatment — and there were no spares or reserves. A power plant or switching station that is really heavily damaged is out of commission for a long time.  If rail transportation in Germany had been established as a secondary and alternate target system, a very large tonnage could still have been directed that way. The missions which found the electric power targets obscured could have been employed against transporta- tion. Marshaling yards are sufficiently large to warrant attack in poor visibility, or even by electronic bombing techniques. To be sure, the large 1100-pound bombs with delay fuses would not have been of optimum size for marshaling yards, but they would nevertheless have been effective.  To utilize the available tonnage against electric power targets in Germany it might have been necessary to shuttle strategic operations    284     APPENDIX    from the Fifteenth Air Force in Italy to bases of the Eighth Air Force in England — an operation similar to that employed earlier by the Eighth in operations in the Mediterranean.  The tonnage actually dropped exclusive of the oil targets between 1 March and 15 May was adequate to have destroyed the German electric power system before the invasion, and still have left 15 days in May for attack of transportation in France to the extent of 48,000 tons of direct attack on the railroads.  This takes no account of the bombing of RAF Bomber Command, which contributed heavily to the “transportation plan” in France.  General Eisenhower was reported to have been exceedingly pleased with the results of the 48,500 tons of bombs delivered by all the Allied air forces against French rail transportation before the invasion. This had risen to 8