rred before the time when the lack of means had rendered further resistance physically impossible.  The creation of this condition was the intent of all the strategic air plans and should have been achieved before the 1944 invasion of the Continent. The diversion of the strategic air effort, with the subse- quent delay in effect, was a tragic mistake.  In his report to Hitler on March 15, 1945, Albert Speer stated flatly: “The German economy is heading for an inevitable collapse within four to eight weeks.” Some time later, looking back at the strategic air assault, the U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey also conclud- ed: “Allied airpower was decisive in the war in western Europe.” Noting that air power might have been employed more effectively at various times and places, the Bombing Survey’s final report still stressed: “Its power and superiority made possible the success of the invasion. It brought the economy which sustained the enemy’s armed forces to a virtual collapse [emphasis added], although the full effects of this collapse had not reached the enemy’s front lines when they were overrun by Allied forces.” The survey might have noted that the collapse of interior Germany led to the ensuing chaos and incipient    *USSBS Summary Report: European War, Sep 30, 1945, p 12.    129     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    anarchy. This condition, which typified interior Germany in mid- January 1945, had been brought about by strategic warfare. Germa- ny’s frontiers were still intact at that time, and the U.S. air offensive had been superbly effective while causing minimum loss of civilian lives. “The capability of the armed forces to fight,” the “will to resist” of the people, and the functioning of vital systems and structures of the German state had been fatally weakened, and inevitable surrender was already assured. The tremendous power of strategic air attack against industrial systems, using conventional bombs dropped with reasonable accuracy against well-selected targets, was cl