-29 bases might be located. Under this    157     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    arrangement, the B-29s would in fact fall under the control of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, with General Arnold serving not only as Commanding General, but as executive agent for the Joint Chiefs. The Joint Chiefs would furnish unified strategic air objectives. As in the case of logistic support for fleet units of the Navy, such support could be provided the B-29s through directive to appropriate area and theater commanders. Admiral King reflected for a moment and said, “I could find such an arrangement acceptable.”  I prepared a brief memorandum to that effect, discussed it with Generals Kuter and Fairchild, and took it over to the War Depart- ment Operations Division. The struggle was only half won because General Marshall was dedicated to the concept of theater unity of command. He had even forced through the first Allied unified command, the ill-fated organization under British Gen. Archibald P. Wavell. This command embraced all the forces in a specified area, and was formally called the Australian-British-Dutch-American Com- mand. Set up in January 1942 at General Marshall’s insistence, it operated until the fall of the Netherlands East Indies to the Japanese in February. I gave the paper to Maj. Gen. Thomas T. Handy, Marshall’s Deputy for Plans and Operations. Tom Handy was one of the finest and most able officers with whom I have been associated. He had General Marshall’s great integrity and intellectual grasp, coupled with a fine sense of humor. He accepted the paper, read it carefully, and looked at me. “I’ll tell you the truth, Hansell,” he said, “I don’t like any part of this paper. It violates the principle of unity of command in a theater of war. It inserts operational forces into a commander’s area of responsibility but gives him no control of those forces. At the same time, the theater commander is expected to defend and supply and support those forces in competition with his own req