before he departed for the Cairo (Sextant) Conference. Even so, he asked the Committee of Operations Analysts to give him a list of recommended targets in Japan for the final air offensive, and show which targets could be included in the initial operations from Chinese bases. The plan would embody the operations from other bases. Targets would be those suitable for air bombardment that would “knock Japan out of the War.” Iron and steel were high on the list.  The operations analysts described seven industries which “now appear profitable aviation target systems,” and listed thirteen others which “did not now appear to be profitable” but might become so. The seven preferred target systems were:  a. Merchant shipping in harbors and at sea.  b. Iron and steel production, to be reached through coke ovens (in Manchuria, Korea, and Kyushu, within range of Chengtu).  c. Urban industrial areas vulnerable to incendiary attacks.  d. Aircraft plants.  e. The antifriction bearing industry, highly concentrated in six main factories.  f. The electronic industry whose interruption would have immediate military effects.  g. The petroleum industry.  The Committee of Operations Analysts contended, however, that the list was not in an order of desired priority.  In spite of all the criticism and opposition, Project Matterhorn was approved at the Cairo (Sextant) Conference. Chiang Kai-shek agreed to build the advanced bases at Chengtu. The British, who would have to build the bases in the Calcutta area, went along. But this did not end the argument. As late as February 15, 1944, the Joint War Plans Committee still believed the best use of the B-29s before deployment in the Marianas would be from Australian bases against shipping and oil. In that committee’s opinion, Chengtu, China, was a very poor choice. Nonetheless, Matterhorn was approved at Sextant and proceeded as planned.    147     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    Allied leaders also agreed at the Cairo (Sextant) Conference upon two coordin