ically:  (a) Could the disruption of the German electric power system have been accomplished in addition to the other operations actually carried out before the invasion, with the forces actually made available?  (b) Could the disruption of the German electric power system have been carried out in addition to the other priority objectives of the CBO, shortly after the invasion?  (c) Would the disruption of the German electric power system in addition to the other primary objectives, have “fatally weakened” the German ability to support the war and thus have brought the German state to collapse at an earlier time?  What size force was required to destroy and disrupt the German electric power system?  Computation of bomber force requirements to assure destruction and collapse of the German electric power system can now be made on the basis of actual war experience, and involves consideration of a number of steps.  1. What is the number of generating plants and switching stations that would have to be put out of operation?  Dr. Carl, a German electric power engineer, submitted a report to the German National Load Dispatcher describing the targets whose destruction would bring about collapse of the system. His report was dated February 23, 1944.  He considered that the U.S. and British strategic air forces would be apt to attack a few transformer points between districts, such as Braieweiler and Kelsterbach sub stations. “After putting this inter- district grid out of operation, the intra-district power supply could be paralyzed by individual attacks on 56 of the most important generat-    278     APPENDIX    ing stations whereby two-thirds of the entire German power produc- tion could be eliminated.”  Another German study lists nine transformer stations and forty- one generating stations.*  For the purpose of this analysis, the target systems will be taken at fifty-six generating stations and nine transformer and switching sub stations.  2. What number of hits and size