ed by the War and Navy Departments, and on May 14, 1941, the Joint Army and Navy Board approved the war plan known as Rainbow No. 5.* It was subsequently approved by the Secretaries of War and the Navy. When the Air War Plans Division of the Air Staff came into being in July 1941, it found itself in solid accord with the ABC conversations and with Rainbow No. 5, the overall war plan envisioning Great Britain and the United States standing against Germany, Italy, and Japan.  War in Europe  As Hitler’s armies cut their paths of victory through Europe, a mounting wave of apprehension engulfed the Roosevelt administration in Washington. Programs for expansion of the armed forces were presented to a reluctant Congress. One such program called for expansion of the Army Air Corps to fifty-four groups. It was presented to Gen. George C. Marshall, Chief of Staff, early in 1940. On conclusion of the presentation by Capt. Laurence S. Kuter, General Marshall asked a penetrating question: “Why is this a fifty- four group program? Why not fifty-six, or sixty-four?” As usual,    *In 1939 American war planners adopted the term “Rainbow” to describe a series of plans outlining the broad national strategic goals of the United States. They called the plans Rainbow because earlier war plans, written in the 1920s and 1930s, had been labeled with colors “orange,” “red,” etc. The single-color plans had anticipated wars against a single nation. By 1941 the conquests by Germany, Japan, and Italy had altered the assumptions of all previous American war planning.    29     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    General Marshall had gone directly to the root of the problem. What purpose was to be sought? What was the objective? Did it require fifty- four groups to attain that objective? Why? What was the strategic plan?  When the next opportunity arose for presentation of a major program, General Marshall’s lesson was remembered. The planners asked themselves what was expected to be achieved with the force? Wha