composite convictions of each committee.  In their studies and deliberations preliminary to committee conclu- sions, it is intended that the members of these committees should present their individual views regarding the matter under consider- ation. When higher authority has reached a decision or had issued a directive, the committee concerned will be guided accordingly.  The original membership of the Joint Strategic Committee included:  Capt. Oliver M. Read, USN Col. Ray T. Maddocks, USA Capt. Bertram J. Rodgers, USN Lt. Col. Jesmond D. Balmer, USA Capt. Forrest P. Sherman, USN Lt. Col. Albert C. Wedemeyer, USA Maj. Homer L. Litzenberg, Jr., USMC Maj. Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., USAAF  On a Friday morning, I received orders reassigning me immedi- ately from the Army Air Forces, where I was Chief of the European Branch of the Air War Plans Division, to the War Department General Staff Corps. I was ordered to report to the Joint Strategic Committee at its new offices on Monday morning. As a member of this committee, I found myself in the midst of the massive machinery which was trying to deal with problems of worldwide proportions. I was told that my loyalties in my new job were to be devoted to the Joint Chiefs of Staffs and that I must divest myself of service allegiances and all prejudices relating to one branch of the military service.  There were only four offices for the eight members of the committee. Each office had a large double desk at which two officers, of different services, sat. Each desk had one “in” basket, one “out” basket, and one “hold” basket. Every effort was made to force us into concerted action and to divorce us from service loyalties. We were a    46     PLANNING THE WAR FOR EUROPE    group of strangers, four from the War Department and four from the Navy Department. The senior officer was Navy Captain Read. He acted as chairman initially, but alternated with Colonel Maddocks at the Army’s insistence.  The military beliefs of the various memb