rating stations.*  For the purpose of this analysis, the target systems will be taken at fifty-six generating stations and nine transformer and switching sub stations.  2. What number of hits and size bombs would be required to knock out an electric power generating station?  The typical thermal electric power station in Germany had its most vulnerable and vital elements housed in a power house about 400 feet by 500 feet in dimensions. The entire complex, including transformers, switchgear, condensers, pumps, and other equipment occupied an area of about 25 acres, or an area about 1000 feet by 1000 feet.  All the facilities were vulnerable to heavy high explosive bombs, which should have delay fuses. Five hundred-pound bombs or larger were found to be adequate to cause irreparable damage. Since no spares for heavy equipment were available, the restoration of operation would have to await manufacture of replacement equipment.  After examining twenty-five generating stations which had been damaged by air attack, the Electric Utilities Report of the U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey had this to say:  . . .from the foregoing it can readily be seen that an electric generating station or a switching and transformer station is a highly integrated mechanism, each unit playing a vital part in the functioning of the plant as a whole.  The layout in all cases covers a large area, is easily traced by transmission lines, and is easily recognized from the air. It has been demonstrated to be exceedingly vulnerable to air attack, and even a chance hit may be so damaging as to close down a plant completely. From the standpoint of generating station engineers and operating    *USSBS German Electric Utilities subcommittee report.    279     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    men, the vulnerability of a generating plant to air attack in wartime is a continued nightmare.  The recuperability of a generating station to a major failure even in normal times is slow. No two plants are alike, and often the ind