leave him in a subordinate position in his own outfit.  The first three months for the B-29s in the Marianas helped lay the groundwork for the much larger bombing offensive against Japan during 1945. If it is conceded that initial periods are likely to be the most difficult ones, then that of the XXI Bomber Command was marked with reasonable success. It can not be denied, however, that such success was accompanied by a full measure of good fortune. It might so easily have been a period of disaster, seeing that our first operations were from uncompleted bases. If our aircraft had returned to find our single, partially completed runway blocked by a crippled B-29 (or the base closed by one of those intense tropical storms that came our way), the whole force could have been lost. All in all, I think it was a good beginning. Its predominant pattern was woven on the theme of selective target destruction.    215     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    Operations  In November 1944, the Joint Chiefs of Staff issued a new target priority list setting forth target systems for the XXI Bomber Command in this priority: (1) Japanese aircraft industry, (2) Japanese industrial areas, and (3) Japanese shipping. Our schedule of opera- tions — all against aircraft and engine factories, except shakedown missions against Iwo Jima — were as follows:    Tokyo   November   24*   Iwo Jima   December   7   Nagoya   December   13 & 18   Iwo Jima   December   24   Tokyo   December   27   Nagoya   January   5   Tokyo   January   9   Nagoya   January   14   Akashi   January   21    Thirteen missions were flown in fifty-six days, or an average of one every four and one-half days, counting Iwo Jima.  Seven of the ten primary targets prescribed by the Joint Chiefs of Staff were specific aircraft and engine factories. Then an urban area system was prescribed, followed by “shipping.” After these three top priorities were three secondary target systems: coke, steel, and oil. It is surprising that these vital selectiv