cal School.  Any serious consideration of this speculation, and any derivation of lessons must take into account these circumstances in which the war was fought:  (1) Security of the American homeland. The United States was in    269     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    no danger at any time. There was no threat to the American people and no external leverage directed against the civil will to resist. The primary limiting factor at home was domestic impatience. The industrial machine was intact and unhampered.  (2) We had time to build and react. Our Allies in Europe held the enemy at bay while we armed.  (3) There were major drains on the German economy. The Germans were fighting a major war on the Eastern Front. The efficiency of the U.S. strategic air offensive was conditioned by the strain inflicted upon German industry by the war with Russia, and later by large-scale operations in Western Europe and the Mediterra- nean. But presumably this pressure on Germany would have contin- ued, even without the American and British invasion of Normandy. And the decisive effectiveness of the air offensive did not depend on the Normandy Invasion.  (4) Japan was an island nation with insufficient resources at home to support the war and to maintain its population. This significantly enhanced the efficacy of the strategic air offensive. Furthermore, Japan’s highly flammable cities were very vulnerable to incendiary attack.  Finally, in considering the results of our incendiary attacks versus selective bombing, we must recognize a most unwelcome but nonethe- less real concurrent effect. Incendiary destruction of great cities has had a powerful and redundant impact upon the United States Air Force. Forgetting the compelling effectiveness of selective bombing against Germany, Americans remember only the slaughter of a million civilians in Japanese cities. A most grievous outcome of our abandon- ing traditional “selective target” bombing for incendiary destruction of sixty-six Japanese cities