l LeMay did not view mining at night as    •General LeMay succeeded me as Commanding General of the XXI on January 20, 1945.    199     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    abandonment of selective targeting. Moreover, the night mining, like the night urban bombing, could be carried out regardless of cloud cover at the target. It is quite clear I could have endorsed mining as an aspect of strategic bombardment against the Japanese transportation system rather than as an auxiliary aspect of the sea blockade. I probably could have persuaded General Arnold to stretch my target priorities as prescribed by the Joint Chiefs to include aerial mining when sufficient aircraft became available. I doubt if I could have, or should have, devoted most of the command’s air power to this purpose in the initial phase of strategic attack against Japan, when first priority was prescribed as destruction of the Japanese aircraft industry.  In retrospect, the actual evolution of events was probably about right. The XXI Bomber Command did attain the “overriding intermediate objective of undermining Japanese aircraft production.” It did preserve its identity and structure as a separate command even though operating in an area under Navy jurisdiction. And it did retain unity of effort while subjected to constant pressure to become subordinate to other commanders and staff agencies. These achieve- ments might have been jeopardized or at least delayed if the XXI Bomber Command had initially devoted its capacity to aerial mining, and the independence of the XXI might have been compromised or lost.  The aerial mining campaign as pursued by General LeMay succeeded beyond anyone’s expectation. Fleet Admiral Nimitz said, “The planning, operational, and technical execution of the Twentieth Air Force aircraft mining on a scale never before attained had accomplished phenomenal results and is a credit to all concerned.” And as Dr. Sallagar stated in his Lessons From an Aerial Mining Campaign :  The campaign was outst