efense made clear to the Japanese people and to the government the futility of further resistance. This was reinforced by the evident deterioration of the Japanese economy and the impact it was having on a large segment of the population. The atomic bombs and Russian entry into the war speeded the process of surrender already realized as the only possible outcome.  It seems clear that, even without the atomic bombing attacks, air supremacy over Japan could have exerted sufficient pressure to bring about unconditional surrender and obviate the need for invasion. Based on a detailed investigation of all the facts, and supported by the testimony of surviving Japanese leaders involved, it is this Survey’s opinion that certainly prior to 1 December 1945, and in all probability prior to 1 November 1945, Japan would have surrendered even if the atomic bomb had not been dropped, even if Russia had not entered the war, and even if no invasion had been planned or contemplated.  An Alternative Grand Strategy for World War II  The strategic air offensives against Germany and Japan, carried out in the context of the Allied grand strategy, were magnificent and decisive accomplishments. But, as is always true in history, other courses of action could have been pursued. A different grand strategy might have been equally decisive and perhaps more efficient. One such alternate overall grand strategy for conducting World War II might have had these broad dimensions:  First Phase  I. Strategic offensive against Hitler’s Germany, with:  (1) A sustained and unremitting air offensive against the sources of German military, economic, and social strength through selective bombing of:  (a) The German aircraft engine industry.  (b) The German electric power system.  (c) The German transportation systems.  (d) The German oil and chemical industries.  (e) The German antifriction bearing industries — coupled with air combat to defeat the German fighter forces.    267     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    (2)