vember 1943. The delegation was led by (front row, left to right) Brig. Gen. Hansell, Maj. Gen. Muir S. Fairchild, General Arnold, Brig. Gen. Laurence S. Kuter, and Col. Willard R. Wolfinbarger.    GEN. GEORGE C. MARSHALL (right) and General Arnold meet with the Com- bined Chiefs of Staff at Cairo’s Mena House Hotel, De- cember 4, 1943.     140     PLANNING THE WAR AGAINST JAPAN  not be necessary and the defeat of Japan may be accomplished by sea and air blockade and intensive air bombardment from progres- sively advanced bases. The plan must, however, be capable of expansion to meet the contingency of an invasion.  At another point the Combined Chiefs agreed to this overall objective among others: “To obtain objectives from which we can conduct intensive air bombardment and establish a sea and air blockade against Japan and from which to invade Japan proper if this should be necessary.”  I also succeeded in inserting a sentence in a paragraph of “Specific Operations for the Defeat of Japan, 1944,” which was approved by the Combined Chiefs of Staff on December 3, 1943. The paragraph read:  Central, South, and Southwest Pacific. The advance along the New Guinea-Netherlands East Indies-Philippines axis will proceed concurrently with operations for the capture of the Mandated Islands (by then the Central Pacific). A strategic bombing force will be established in Guam, Tinian, and Saipan for strategic bombing of Japan proper. Air bombardment of targets in the Netherlands East Indies-Philippine Area and the aerial neutralization of Rabaul will be intensified.  The strategy underlying the bombing of Japan proper was similar to that applied against Germany: to defeat the enemy air force and to so weaken the Japanese capability and will to fight as to cause capitulation or permit occupation against disorganized resistance; failing this, to make invasion feasible at minimum cost.*  The position of air strategists regarding the air offensive against Japan was very weak in Nov