ort was imperative. That was the target area itself, Japan, which was under the control of none of them.  In March 1944 I presented to the Joint Chiefs of Staff the Army Air Forces concept of Pacific strategy. It envisioned a concerted bombing offensive against the Japanese home islands from the Marianas, to undermine the war-making capability of Japan. The plan also provided for the main B-29 force to be located in the Marianas. When the Philippines had been retaken, B-29 units were likewise to be situated on bases there within range of Japan. The B-29s in Chengtu, China, were to be moved forward when better base areas became available. A base was to be built in the Aleutian Islands as well.  Prior to the redeployment of the Eighth Air Force, the first plan for the final deployment of B-29s (and escort fighters when they became available) was as follows:    Chengtu, China   4 B-29 groups*   Mariana Islands   16 B-29 groups (3 squadrons each)   Ryukyu Islands   12 B-29 groups (3 squadrons each)   Philippine Islands   12 B-29 groups (3 squadrons each)   Aleutian Islands   4 B-29 groups (deployment questionable)   Iwo Jima Island   3 groups of long-range support fighters (type unspecified)   Ie Shima Island   2 groups of support fighters (type unspecified)   Kikai Island   2 groups of support fighters (type unspecified)   Okinawa Island   I squadron of strategic reconnaissance aircraft (type unspecified)    ♦These groups, making up the 58th Bombardment Wing of the XX Bomber Command, were later transferred to the Marianas.    156     PLANNING THE WAR AGAINST JAPAN    The main thrust of the plan was a unified and concerted air bombardment concentrated on a single list of targets in the Japanese home islands and coordinated through a unified air command.    Twentieth Air Force  Various schemes for centralizing control of the B-29s under the Joint Chiefs of Staff had been discussed ever since Sextant. Actually it was the similarity of this air problem to the traditional n