ermany.    54     PLANNING THE WAR FOR EUROPE    It is interesting to note that the Combined Chiefs of Staff recognized that defensive security of the sources of power, the main areas of population, and war industry, must be ensured before any offensive operations could be sustained.  One would expect this would settle the dichotomy over early offensive against Japan, but this was not so. The U.S. Navy was not content with a defensive role and demanded the acceptance of a “limited active defense” against Japan, with forces assigned for this purpose. Specifically, Navy officials wanted a U.S. Army strategic air force assigned to support naval forces in the South Pacific. The crux of the disagreement focused on communications between Hawaii and Australia. I demurred against furnishing a strategic air force to the Pacific which would compete with requirements for Europe. Nonethe- less, the other committee members agreed with the Navy’s contention that the line of communication to Australia through New Zealand was vital to the war effort, and there must be provided a mobile air force of long-range aircraft to operate with the mobile naval surface forces. The idea was appealing and had merit — if we had forces to support it.  I agreed that the area was important but could not agree that a long-range air force should be provided for operations in that area. Actually, we had no long-range air forces at all. The Eighth Air Force was to be organized for deployment to England at the earliest possible moment. But it was not even in existence. We were short of long-range bombers and trained crews, and we were straining to form such an air force for the air offensive against Axis Europe. To set up another long- range air force for operations in the South Pacific would dilute our sparse resources beyond recognition. This was the first of many efforts — some of them all too successful — to divert long-range bomb- ers from their agreed first priority job: the attack on Germany.  Th