1st Bombardment Wing attacked the ball-bearing factories at Schweinfurt; the 3d Wing attacked the Me- 109 factory at Regensburg and then flew on to bases in North Africa. Of the 230 bombers of the 1st Bombardment Wing that took off for Schweinfurt on August 17, 1943, led by Brig. Gen. Robert B. Williams, 34 did not return — a loss rate of 15 percent. The 3d Wing, led by Col. Curtis E. LeMay, suffered even more. Of the 146 bombers that had taken off for Regensburg, only 122 reached the landing bases in North Africa, a loss rate of 16Vi percent. The bombing had been good but the bombs used against Schweinfurt had not been heavy enough. Though the buildings were destroyed, the heavy machinery survived. Restoration of these factories became the No. 1 priority of Albert Speer’s ministry. In the next 2 months, just as the available supply of bearings was approaching exhaustion, the factories commenced to recover production. The attacks on Schwein- furt were repeated on October 14, with 291 Flying Fortresses dispatched on the mission. Sixty did not return, a loss rate of 2016 percent. While the bombing was good and the destruction extensive, no air force could continue attacks with such loss ratios. The ball- bearing factories were again rebuilt, but it was a close call for the Germans. To keep producing, single factories were sending individual motorcycle messengers to Schweinfurt to bring back dispatch cases of bearings.  These events are well known. Who can speculate on the anxiety and anguish of Eaker and Anderson which were pitted against their    86      BOMBING RESULTS of the Third Bombardment Division’s mission over Schweinfurt, Germany, October 14, 1943.    87      A SEVERED JU-88 AT BRUNSWICK, GERMANY, testifies to the AAF’s determination to break the back of the German Air Force.    88     EIGHTH AIR FORCE BOMBERS strike a ball-bearing factory at Stuttgart.      B-17 FLYING FORTRESSES OVER SCHWEINFURT.    AT THE WAR’S END, SCHWEIN- FURT LAY RAV- AGED BY CON- TIN