inasmuch as air defense was first priority and we needed to know what was most vulnerable to enemy air attack in order to plan defenses.  It soon became apparent that the very heart of our industrial system was the electric power system. Practically all our industrial and economic functions were totally dependent upon it. Then in order of importance were these systems: transportation, chiefly our railroads-, fuel, including fuel-refining and distribution; food distribution and preservation; and steel manufacturing, the manufacturing process being vital to both the war-making capacity of the state, and to the operation of the economic and industrial functions of the state itself. In addition, there were a number of highly concentrated manufactur- ing factories whose destruction would add a crippling blow. Among these plants were electric generator, transformer, switch gear, and    12     STRATEGY, DOCTRINE, AND PLANS    motor manufacturing; locomotive manufacturing; shipbuilding; alumi- num and magnesium.  Viewing this concept, as applied to our own nation, the Tactical School concluded:  Loss of any of these systems would be a crippling blow. Loss of several or all of them would bring national paralysis. As to repair of this devastation, it would seem obvious that any air force worthy of the name should be able to destroy faster than replacement could be effected. . . . The airplane gives us a weapon which can immediately reach the internal organization of an enemy nation, within range, and therefore bring about the defeat of that nation. The fundamen- tal innovation lies in the fact that whole nations now lie within the combat zone.  As to strategic air intelligence, the school deemed it vital to planning and operations of strategic air warfare. It should be collected in time of peace and cover the economic, industrial, and social structure of potential enemies. On the question of counter-air force operations the school was moot. It was agreed that the “bombers cou