and high-altitude performance.  Early in September 1944, I issued orders for converting the 73d Bombardment Wing to daylight tactics, and I established tactical doctrine for daylight operations including a standard formation. Opposition to this change was severe, especially from the 73d Wing. Training was intensive. But training missions from Kansas to Cuba, simulating the mission from Saipan to Japan, left bombers down all over the Gulf States. Meanwhile, the pressure to commit the command to combat rose. Final practice missions were flown. Groups of the 73d flew two long-range missions that stressed takeoff, assembly, rendez- vous, formation flying, and simulated frontal weather penetration. Still, it was simply impossible to train bombardiers to an acceptable    170     PLANNING THE WAR AGAINST JAPAN    precision accuracy in the time remaining. Training would have to be completed in the Pacific.  Capture of the Marianas as a base for B-29 operations stemmed from the Army Air Forces’ initiative and insistence. However, the decision was arrived at before the crews had enough flying experience with the B-29 to know what its performance truly was. Early experience in the training areas revealed that the round trip from the Marianas to Tokyo was marginal for the B-29, even on paper and without opposition. Depending on the location of the base and the target, the distance could be as much as 1,550 miles one way. Clearly there would be no land-based escort fighters for the first part of the campaign, prior to the capture of Iwo Jima. Apart from the marginal range of the B-29, nearly 1,500 miles of hostile water separated the Marianas from Tokyo.  When the first units deployed to Saipan six weeks later, the crews had averaged less than a hundred hours of total flying time in the B-29. The average high-altitude formation flying experience was under twelve hours. Moreover, the B— 29’s engines developed a mean tendency to swallow valves and catch fire. The magnesium crankca