itial mode of offensive operations against Axis Europe would be through a combined strategic air offensive by the Royal Air Force and the U.S. Army Air Forces from bases in England. It would be directed against the German Air Force and the war-making and civic-sustaining resources of the German state. Preparations for an invasion of the Continent and sustained and combined air and surface warfare would be provided. Massive tactical air forces to support ground operations would be made ready in time. The proponents of strategic air warfare hoped an invasion would not be needed, but Allied grand strategy could not be pinned to that hope alone.  This grand strategy was accepted by the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff and was formally accepted by the Combined Chiefs of Staff on December 31, 1941. The agreement contained the following para- graph:    The essential features of the American-British Strategy as adopted by the Combined Chiefs of Staff on December 31, 1941, based on the principle that only the minimum of force necessary for the safeguarding of vital interests in other theaters should be diverted from operation against Germany, were:  (a) The realization of the victory programs of armaments, which first and foremost requires the security of the main areas of war industry.  (b) The maintenance of essential communications.  (c) Closing and tightening the ring around Germany.  (d) Wearing down and undermining German resistance by air bombardment, blockade, subversive activities, and propaganda.  (e) The continuous development of offensive action against Germany.  (f) Maintaining only such positions in the Eastern theater as will safeguard vital interests and deny to Japan access to raw materials vital to her continuous war effort while we are concentrat- ing on defeat of Germany.    54     PLANNING THE WAR FOR EUROPE    It is interesting to note that the Combined Chiefs of Staff recognized that defensive security of the sources of power, the main areas of population, a