ive air forces could be used in several ways. They could be used as the primary war-winning force, supported or followed by land and sea forces, as suggested by Air Marshal Smuts.    14     STRATEGY, DOCTRINE, AND PLANS    Or they could function as a collateral force, coequal with land or sea forces, operating against separate but related objectives. In either event, the strategic air forces would have to have strategic intelligence peculiar to their own needs. To be effective in the pursuit of these two air strategies, air power demanded concentration of effort and unified command and control by an airman at the highest echelon of command. The very flexibility of air forces made possible diversion of the strategic element to a third role — support of land or sea force objectives. This could occur when there was a dearth of vital enemy industrial targets, the existence of an immediate national emergency, or the overriding authority of superior command. Hence strategic forces could be shifted to a support role. Still, if air forces were designed and structured solely for the role of supporting land or sea forces, they would be incapable of fighting effectively in a strategic war.  Besides the specific doctrines of air employment, the Air Corps Tactical School accepted and adapted the War Department Principles of War to air power. The most important were:    The Objective   Determine clearly what you want to accomplish and stick to it.   The Offensive   Only offensive action against the enemy will produce victory.   Mass   Concentrate the maximum possible effort to- ward attainment of the main objective. Do not permit the effort to be diverted from the principal purpose.   Economy of   The converse of the principle of mass. In all   Force   other operations use as little force as possible in order to concentrate mass on the principal effort.   Security   Unless the base of power is defended and    secure, it will be very difficult to sustain the strategic offensive an