the Army Air Forces could not have changed it alone. There is, however, another very significant point. The turn to incendiary area attacks and the devastating atomic bombs did not in themselves prove that selective strategic bombing should be abandoned elsewhere or under other circumstances. Selective bombing was decisive against Germany and could have been decisive against Japan. Improvements in weapons and sighting techniques have multiplied the effectiveness of conventional weapons attack perhaps a hundredfold, surmounting the limitations imposed by “our most implacable enemy,” the weather. Technology is opening a path toward defense against nuclear missiles. Such a defense    264     SUMMING UP    of our military capabilities and most particularly of our urban centers — the focus of our “national will” — offers promise of inhibiting nuclear war. If such a condition transpires — and it is crucially important to the American nation that it should transpire — then wars of the future may again be determined by accurate delivery of non- nuclear weapons against properly selected targets. Then selective destruction by strategic air forces with conventional weapons may once more be the instrument for “fatal weakening” of a great industrial power and the arbiter that hastens the peace agreement. It is an option we should furnish ourselves.  Ten years before this climactic assault on Japan, I proposed at the Air Corps Tactical School three basic functions for employing armed forces in support of national purpose and national policy. These were (1) the forceful acquisition of enemy territory, either for permanent acquisition or in order to control the enemy nation and its capability to resist; (2) the application of compelling force, without acquisition of enemy territory or the intent permanently to acquire, in order to destroy or paralyze his capability to wage effective warfare and to sustain the “will to resist” of the enemy people; and (3) the provision of defenses w