China, was situated about 1,150 miles from Calcutta, India.  General Arnold directed Brig. Gen. Kenneth B. Wolfe, who was to command the first combat unit of B-29 bombers — the XX Bomber Command — to prepare an outline operational plan to carry out attacks on these targets. General Wolfe’s plan was expanded by the Air War Plans Division and became Project Matterhorn.  The strategic purpose and concept of Project Matterhorn were sound. But the logistic requirements were staggering and the logistic plan was horrendous. Based in India, the B-29s would stage through advanced bases in China. Even if the Chinese could be persuaded to build the air bases, it would be necessary to support B-29 operations from the advanced bases by air supply over the Himalayas. The B-29s themselves would have to ferry bombs and gasoline over “the Hump,” and supply would have to be supplemented by B-24s converted into tankers. The effective rate of the operations would be very low indeed. Their primary virtue would be in striking an important blow against Japan proper and in preserving the command-and-control structure.    144      NAGASAKI,    STRATEGIC AIR WAR    pending a time when other Pacific bases could be captured and prepared for other B-29 forces.  Chiang Kai-shek, who was present at the Cairo Conference in November-December 1943, agreed to the base construction at Cheng- tu. He was as good as his word. The bases were hand constructed by hundreds of thousands of workers.  Actually, Project Matterhorn had a painful birth and a brief life span. Under General Kuter’s supervision, the Air Plans Division of the Air Staff planned Matterhorn. General Arnold presented the final plan to the Joint Chiefs of Staff and, after some discussion, they, at General Arnold’s request, referred it to the Joint Staff planners (before my arrival in that committee). These planners and the Joint Intelli- gence Committee seriously questioned if the concept was desirable and feasible. Nevertheless, it was se