tate. This was to take place before the final decision on whether to invade. The full effect should be achieved before the invasion. Then, if necessary, two months of preparatory air attack would follow in direct preparation for it.  The Casablanca Directive, approved by the President and the Prime Minister in January 1943, expressed the purpose of the air assault, as a part of Allied grand strategy: “To bring about the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial, and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened.”  The air plans called for providing and operating air forces that could defeat the German fighter forces as an intermediate (counter- force) objective, and then achieve their principal purpose by destroying and dislocating the countervalue system. The system encompassed transportation, electric power (later dropped from the primary target list by actions of the Committee of Operations Analysts), as well as petroleum, ball-bearing, and various munitions factories (including tank, rubber and chemical plants), and certain vital bases).  The air offensive by bombers and accompanying fighters attained the intermediate objective — defeat of the German Air Force — during Big Week in February 1944. This made possible the invasion at Normandy in June. But the strategic bomber offensive suffered critical delays that postponed the major air effort against some of the primary targets until four months after the invasion. Obviously the grand strategy had missed its timing. Instead of six months of air attack with the force at full strength before the invasion, just two months of strategic air attack were permitted before the invasion, then six months of air support for the invasion and ground campaign. Not until mid-September 1944 was the strategic air offensive resumed, and even    117     EUROPEAN CAMPAIGN    PLANNED TIME PHASING - VICTOR