d that the most effective results from strategic bombing will be obtained by directing the combined day-and-night effort of the United States and British bomber forces to all-out attacks against targets which are mutually complementary in undermining a limited number of selected objective systems.  V. General Plan of Operations: The plan of operations is divided into four phases. The depth of penetration, the number of targets available, and the capacity of the bombing forces increases successively with each phase.  VI. Forces Required:*  First Phase — 800 U.S. heavy bombers on hand by July. Depth of penetration— generally limited to range of escort fighters. (There is one notable exception — the ball-bearing factory at Schweinfurt.)  Second Phase — 1,192 U.S. heavy bombers on hand by October. Depth of penetration — 400 miles from bases in England.  Third Phase — 1,746 U.S. heavy bombers on hand by January 1944. Depth of penetration — 500 miles.  Fourth Phase — 2,702 U.S. heavy bombers on hand by June 1944. Depth of penetration limited only by operating radius of action of bomber aircraft.  If the forces required as set forth above are made available on the dates indicated, it will be possible to carry out the mission prescribed in the Casablanca Conference. If those forces are not made available, then that mission is not attainable in mid- 1944.  In view of the ability of adequate and properly used air power to impair the industrial source of the enemy’s military strength, only the most vital considerations should be permitted to delay or divert the application of an adequate air striking force to this task.  Upon completion, the CBO plan was presented to General Eaker and, after considerable discussion, he approved it. It was later given to the new European Theater Commander, Lt. Gen. Frank M. Andrews, and he also concurred. Meanwhile, the RAF members of the    •Actually, this was a reflection of the total number of aircraft scheduled for delivery.    76     PLANN