he main effort in the Pacific is:  A. Following the Okinawa operations to seize additional positions to intensify the blockade and air bombardment of Japan in order to create a situation favorable to:  B. An assault on Kyushu (Island) — in order to establish a tactical situation favorable to:  C. The decisive invasion of the industrial heart of Japan through the Tokyo Plain.  General Marshall was generally acknowledged to be the author and proponent of this strategy.  Dr. Sallagar reviewed the U.S. Pacific strategy in Lessons from an Aerial Bombing Campaign. He discovered that:  To the Army, the JCS endorsement of naval blockade and strategic    219     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    bombardment merely meant that the Navy and the Air Force should be allowed to apply their favorite methods of warfare, provided that these preliminary operations were used to soften up the enemy in preparation for the invasion and did not interfere with the major objective.  But my chief aim as Commanding General, XXI Bomber Command, was unchanged. That is, the “intermediate objective of overriding priority” was still the Japanese aircraft industry. Moreover, the overall statement of military strategy for the strategic air war did not specifically countermand the initial statement of the strategic air objective — to destroy Japan’s capability to support the war.  In January 1945, we planned a variation from the steady stream of air attacks on factories in the Tokyo-Nagoya area. The Kawasaki Aircraft Industries Co., Ltd., was the third largest aircraft production company in Japan. It had a new engine and airframe complex at Akashi, about 12 miles west of Kobe and around 100 miles west of Nagoya. Besides being the biggest facility of the company, Akashi was also the headquarters of the Kawasaki engine division. There was another engine plant at nearby Futami, approximately 8 miles west of Akashi, and one at Takatsuki (about halfway between Kyoto and Akashi), nearly 20 miles from Akashi. Akashi was,