, Director of Bomber Operations at the Air Ministry. Sidney Bufton was a most valuable addition to the planning team. He had been, and continued to be, an important contributor to the bomber offensive. Gp. Capt. Arthur Morley, RAF, was also a member, as were Maj. Richard Hughes (one of the original members of the Strategic Air Intelligence Section), Lt. Col. John S. Hardy, and Lt. Col. Arthur C. “Sailor” Agan, Jr., all from General Eaker’s staff. Colonel Cabell also participated. Even though the team set up by General Eaker bore no official designation, it might be called the CBO Planning Team, seeing that it produced the    74     PLANNING THE WAR FOR EUROPE    plan for the Combined Bomber Offensive from the United Kingdom and the Mediterranean.  The plan would differ from AWPD-1 and AWPD-42 in one important respect. The former were “Requirement Plans,” designed to prescribe what should be accomplished and what was needed. The plan for the CBO was a “Capability Plan.” Its purpose was to prescribe what should be done to achieve an objective with forces already committed to production.  The salient features of the plan were as follows:  I. Objective: The Casablanca Directive.  II. Primary Target Systems: The report of the Committee of Operations Analysts has concluded that the destruction and continued neutralization of some sixty targets, among nineteen target systems, listed in priority, will gravely impair and might paralyze the western Axis war effort. The priority list of the nineteen target systems is: German aircraft industry, with first priority on fighter aircraft, including assembly plants and engine factories; ball bearings; petroleum; grinding wheels; nonferrous metals; synthetic rubber and tires; submarine construction yards and bases; military motor transport; general transportation systems; coking plants; steel; ma- chine tools; electric power; electric equipment; optical precision instruments; chemicals; food production; nitrogen and the chemical indu