it occupation against disorganized resistance; failing this, to make invasion feasible at minimum cost.*  The position of air strategists regarding the air offensive against Japan was very weak in November 1943. B-29s were beginning to come off the line, but essential bases for their operation against the Japanese home islands had not yet been provided. General Arnold and his Air Staff were determined to employ B-29s against the Japanese homeland. We were extremely apprehensive lest they be apportioned to theater commanders for local operations. Once assigned to such  •The expression “occupation,” as distinct from “invasion,” was deliberately inserted by the airmen in Sextant discussions.    141     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    control, it would be hard to extricate them and concert their efforts against the prime targets in Japan.  Operation Matterhorn  An outline plan was prepared in August 1943 by the Air War Plans Division of the Air Staff for use of the B-29s from bases to be built by the forces of Chiang Kai-shek in China. It was the only way we could find to start using these aircraft (however ineffectively) against Japan proper, prior to the capture of the Marianas.  The idea of basing strategic bombers in China was not entirely new. At the Casablanca Conference in January 1943, President Roosevelt discussed with Prime Minister Churchill the possibility of air operations out of Chinese bases against the Japanese. General Marshall endorsed General Arnold’s view that Japanese industry was very vulnerable to bombardment from the air. The President added that periodic bombing of Japan would have a tremendous effect upon the morale of the Chinese people. He suggested sending 200 to 300 planes to China, including heavy bombers (B-24s), and proposed that the bombers be based in India and staged through advanced bases in China.  The President had gone so far as to wire Chiang Kai-Shek that he was sending General Arnold to Chungking to discuss U.S. aid because he was “determ