ir Forces, fighters 32  U.S. Fifteenth Air Force, fighters 12  Total 44    (About 3,600 fighters)    102     EXECUTION AND EVALUATION    This force compares with AWPD-1 and AWPD-42 in the following manner:    Groups    AWPD-1, heavy bombers 44  AWPD-42, heavy bombers (including North 49  Africa and Middle East)  AWPD-1, pursuit 21  AWPD-42, pursuit (including North Africa 39  and Middle East)    Until Big Week in the war on the German Air Force, the U.S. Strategic Air Forces had been in a period of growth and adolescence, perhaps “stunted growth” would be more accurate. The theories and doctrines of the Air Corps Tactical School had been pursued with an inspiring faith in spite of disappointments and the shocking effect of air battles of unprecedented dimensions. But the real test, in terms of results compared with plans and expectations, lay still ahead. The first year of combat had sorely tried the basic concept that the bombers could get through. When Kenneth N. Walker was a first lieutenant and the bombardment instructor at Maxwell Field, he had stoutly professed that “a properly planned and organized air attack, once launched, cannot be stopped.” The realities of air combat had led to modifications in equipment and tactics, but the spirit behind that doctrine had not wilted in the heat of fire. But now, when the real opportunity to apply strategic air power was here, other influences rose to frustrate its achievement.  As the date for the invasion came closer, General Eisenhower was concerned only with results that would be felt in time to assist troops in establishing their beachhead. The factor which, second only to the German Air Force, had been the greatest source of worry to the ground commanders and planners responsible for the Normandy invasion was the rate of buildup of Allied and German divisions in the critical invasion area. Could the Allies transfer divisions and supplies over the channel and across the open beaches faster than the Germans could shi