by Marshal of the Royal Air Force Sir Charles Portal. The issue was finally resolved by placing the strategic air forces directly under General Eisenhower, with Air Chief Marshal Tedder directing their operations in the transportation plan (France) for Eisenhower and coordinating their efforts with Leigh-Mallory.  There was lively dissent as to the most profitable way to disrupt rail traffic: by attacking marshaling yards and railroad shop facilities, or by destroying bridges. Both methods were tried, the latter proving better on later examination. The overall result was satisfactory. The U.S. and British strategic air forces and the medium bombers and fighter-bombers of the U.S. Ninth Air Force devoted almost all of May to assaulting rail transportation in France. The interdiction of German rail movement to the Normandy area was effective. In the    107      THE 9 1ST BOMB GROUP strikes enemy installations at Oschersleben, Germany, on February 20, 1944.    108      Left: LT. GEN. JO- SEPH T. MCNAR- NEY, Army Deputy Chief of Staff, (left) and Gen. Carl Spaatz visit the 381st’ Bomb Group, Ridgewell, En- gland, on April 19, 1944.    Below: ETO COMMANDER LT. GEN. JACOB L. DEVERS, Secretary of War Henry L. Stim- son, and Maj. Gen. Ira C. Eaker review bomb- ing documents at Thurleigh, England, July 13, 1943.    STRATEGIC AIR WAR    words of General Spaatz, the attack on German transportation “opened the door for invasion.”  To provide additional assurance against interference by the German Air Force, intensive strikes were made on its nearby airfields. By D-day the airfields in the area closest to Normandy had received 6,717 tons of bombs, 3,197 of which were delivered by the Ninth Air Force, 2,638 by the Eighth, and the remaining 882 by the RAF. Actually this was a normal and proper operation for the tactical air forces, rather than the strategic air forces.  On the first day of the invasion, June 6, 1944, the Allied air forces combined their strategic, tactical, and ai