rting the German Air Force. Other target systems in their order of priority were:  a. Crossbow targets (V-l German missile installations).  b. Berlin and other industrial areas, to be attacked by RAF Bomber Command and U.S. Strategic Air Forces in Europe (by radar), whenever weather or tactical conditions proved suitable for such activities but not for operations against the primary objectives.  c. Targets in southeast Europe (cities, transportation, and other suitable objectives in the Balkans and in satellite countries). These would be attacked by the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces supported by the Fifteenth Air Force, whenever weather or tactical conditions prevented operations against Pointblank objectives or in support of important land operations in Italy.  The guidance stipulated for the conduct of combined operations was: “Mutually supporting attacks by the Strategic Air Forces of both    96     EXECUTION AND EVALUATION    nations pursued with relentless determination against the same target areas or systems, so far as tactical conditions allow.”  In this restatement of the objectives of the Combined Bomber Offensive, reference was made again to destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial, and economic system. But the original primary targets were not listed. Undermining of morale and the fatal weakening of German willingness and ability to fight had been dropped. Defeat of the German Air Force had been emphasized. Although reference to specified industrial target systems as primary targets had been deleted, those primary targets had not been specifically canceled. An invitation had been offered to use Pointblank forces for attacks against cities and transportation and other suitable targets in the Balkans, or for the support of ground operations in the Mediterranean Theater. A new element of significance had been added: “disruption of vital lines of communication.” Vital to what? The German industrial and economic system? Or to the movem