ic alliance signed at  Berlin on September 27, 1940. It created the Axis powers of World War II.  During World War II the Germans used an encryption machine called Enigma. The British, assisted by the Polish and French, broke the code for Enigma and extracted intelligence data which they labeled Top Secret Ultra. This Ultra intelligence data went to only a very few political leaders and military commanders. For the greater part of the war, German Enigma messages were systematically, regularly, and extensively deciphered.  United States Strategic Bombing Survey. A survey of bomb damage done by Allied strategic bombing forces during World War II, covering both primary and secondary damage in the European and Pacific Theaters of Operation. Term also refers to the board that made this survey.  German robot flying bomb with a pulse jet engine that allowed it to be launched form the Continent at targets in England. Called the “FZG-76” by the Germans and the “buzz bomb” by the British. Used in World War II.    294     Bibliography    For more than fifty years I have studied the theories, applications, and debates on strategic air warfare. These studies, rooted in personal commitments and experiences, are the basis of this memoir. Certain books and official histories, however, were of great assistance in recalling the context, circumstances, and specific dates in a war fought four decades ago. Two sets of official analytical works were invaluable: Wesley F. Craven and James L. Cate, editors, The Army Air Forces in World War II, 7 volumes (Chicago, 1948-1958), Reprint Edition, (Washington: 1984); and United States Strategic Bombing Survey: European Survey, 208 Reports (Washington: September-October 1945), and Pacific Survey, 108 Reports (Washington: June-July 1946). In addition, for this memoir I drew upon my two earlier published works: The Air Plan That Defeated Hitler (Atlanta, Ga: 1972) and Strategic Air War Against Japan (Maxwell Air Force Base: 1980). Other books and p