der’s area of responsibility but gives him no control of those forces. At the same time, the theater commander is expected to defend and supply and support those forces in competition with his own requirements. I don’t like it.” Then he grinned and said, “But I don’t have a better solution. I’ll buy it.” I said, “Do you think General Marshall will buy it?” He replied, “General Marshall isn’t here. But I know how he’ll react. If General Arnold and Admiral King are agreed on it, he’ll go along. As a matter of fact, I’ll approve it in his name.” That memorandum served as the basis for a paper presented to the    158     PLANNING THE WAR AGAINST JAPAN    Joint Chiefs of Staff by the Joint Plans Committee, of which I was the air member.  The Twentieth Air Force was born on April 4, 1944, with General Arnold its first commander. It was designated the Twentieth to distinguish it from the other numbered air forces. On April 10 the Joint Chiefs of Staff accepted the Joint Plans Committee paper, and it constituted the formal charter under which the Twentieth operated. I have always believed the wartime establishment of the Twentieth Air Force was one of the most important events in United States Air Force history. If it had not occurred, we might be still parceling out our big punch in penny packets to numerous theaters and lower commands. And there might have been no United States Air Force.  The Joint Chiefs, in approving the creation of the Twentieth Air Force, directed:  Commanders of the Theaters in which the Twentieth Air Force’s XXth and XXIst Bomber Commands are based are directed to coordinate B-29 operations with other air operations in their Theaters, to construct and defend B-29 bases, and to provide logistical support and common administrative control of the B-29 forces. Should strategic or tactical emergencies arise requiring the use of the B-29 forces for purposes other than the missions assigned to them by the Joint Chiefs, Theater commanders are authorized to