an that of Great Britain. It is vital to the German war effort and is highly important to civil life.  (2) The electric power system might be likened to the neuro- muscular system of the human body. Disruption would vitiate controlled action. It is estimated that destruction of fifty targets would bring about collapse.  b. Transportation. The German transportation system is carrying    34     STRATEGY, DOCTRINE, AND PLANS    an extremely heavy load, divided about as follows: seventy-two percent of German transportation is carried out by the railroads, twenty-five percent by canals and waterways, and three percent by long-haul truckage. The transportation system bears the same relationship to the German corporate body as the bloodstream to the human body. Without a free flow of transportation, raw materials could not reach processing plants, manufactured parts and supplies could not reach factories and assembly plants, and finished products could not reach consumers, whether they be armed forces or civilian institutions. Forty-one targets, consisting of marshaling yards, bridges, canal locks, and inland harbors are set up for the accomplishment of this objective.  c. Petroleum and synthetic oil.  (1) German military vehicles and transportation, the German Air Force, the German Navy, and (a large block of) German industry are dependent upon petroleum products.  (2) The blockade has cut off external sources, other than Rumania, leaving the Reich heavily dependent upon a group of synthetic oil plants. Twenty-seven synthetic plants plus the refineries at Ploesti in Rumania are set up to accomplish this objective.  In summary, the plan called for destruction of these target systems and targets:  German Air Force 18 airplane assembly plants  6 aluminum plants 6 magnesium plants  Electric power 50 generating plants and  switching systems  Transportation 47 marshaling yards, bridges,  and locks  Synthetic petroleum 27 synthetic plants  Total 154 targets  How many planes? — H