arassing capabilities as well.  Evaluating the Strategic Bombing Campaign in Europe  The strategic bombing campaign has long been a subject of intense controversy and may well remain so for years to come. Certainly the moral issue will be debated as long as morality itself lacks a confirmed definition. What actually happened to the war- supporting structure of Germany as a result of strategic warfare? How far did actual operations depart from the strategic plans?  Although the evidence is still interpreted in various ways, the question as to what actually happened to the war-supporting structure is well documented. Before the end of the war, Maj. Gen. Muir S. Fairchild initiated and General Arnold carried out a bold and    115     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    statesman-like proposal. General Arnold requested that a special high- level civilian committee make an immediate and thorough investiga- tion of the effects of bombing in Germany. He asked that it be headed by a citizen of unusually high repute who was untainted by philosophi- cal leanings toward any type of warfare, in order that the report might be as objective as possible. The committee should be commissioned by the President himself and should report directly to him. It should be dominated by civilians throughout and should use military men solely to the extent it found their professional experience to be necessary and helpful. Arnold persuaded Adm. Ernest J. King that the Navy should be represented in the survey. Finally, General Arnold specifically requested that the committee’s findings not be divulged to him or to the senior commanders and staff of the Army Air Forces until the report had been completed and submitted to the President.  As a result, the United States Strategic Bombing Survey was established by the Honorable Henry L. Stimson, Secretary of War, on November 3, 1944, pursuant to a directive from the President. The Bombing Survey was headed by Franklin D’Olier as Chairman and Henry C. Alexander as V