bs Col. William F. McKee  Col. Llewellyn O. Ryan Lt. Col. John W. Carpenter Col. Samuel R. Brentnall  Col. Sol Rosenblatt Maj. Gen. Laurence S. Kuter Maj. Gen. David N. W. Grant Brig. Gen. Harold M. McClelland Col. Max F. Schneider Col. Guido R. Perera    A-l (Personnel)  A-2 (Intelligence)  A-3 (Combat Operations)  A-3 (Operations, Commitments, and Requirements)  A-3 (Training)  A-3 (Crew Training)  A-4 (Materiel, Maintenance, and Distribution)  A-4 (Supply)  A-5 (Plans)  Surgeon  Communications Officer Air Inspector Target Intelligence Officer and representative of the Committee of Opera- tions Analysts    Arrangements had to be made for deployment to overseas bases and for logistic support. Personnel needed to be selected for key assignments. The top ones, of course, required General Arnold’s approval, and he selected commanders at his own discretion. I anxiously watched the Materiel Command’s progress in correcting a multitude of airplane and engine technical problems. I spent as much time as I could shepherding concepts and ideas through the Joint War Plans Committee, the Joint Plans Committee, and the Joint Chiefs of Staff and discouraging dismemberment of the force. At my request, the Committee of Operations Analysts was rendered responsive to the Chief of Staff of the Twentieth Air Force on matters relating to that command. I had to be ready at a moment’s notice to answer General Arnold’s questions, so he could be prepared to field those of the other    161     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who were showing a lively interest in the new Twentieth Air Force.  One of the first challenges facing the Twentieth was communica- tions — both command-and-control and administrative. The Joint Chiefs had approved our request to set up our own separate communications system. This was a sizable order seeing that we would have units and headquarters scattered over half the world. I briefed General Arnold on our communications requirements and w