ing the American doctrine of selective strategic air warfare bore up remarkably well in the cauldron of World War II. The devastation of Germany and Japan in 1945 testified eloquently to the power of the strategic air strike force, even before the dropping of the atomic bombs. Germany reached economic and industrial collapse while her borders were still intact. Japan surrendered without a single American soldier on her home soil. Among the strategic precepts confirmed by experience are:  (1) Modern great nations are dependent upon industrialized systems for the prosecution of war and for the sustenance of the civil structure. Destruction or crippling of those vital systems through correct strategic targeting can lead to national collapse.  (2) Conventional bombs and warheads can destroy any manmade structure or system. New weapon-delivery systems have improved accuracy so markedly as to multiply the destructiveness of convention- al weapons manyfold.    271     STRATEGIC AIR WAR    (3) The air strike force did deliver such weapons with adequate accuracy, without incurring intolerable aircraft losses or causing excessive civilian casualties.  (4) Area attack of urban areas is an effective last-resort measure.  (5) Defense of the source of power — our people — is essential before an efficient air offensive can be launched or sustained.  (6) Bolstering the national will through defenses is also necessary to prevent collapse of national resolution in crisis. Wars can be lost without fighting at all.  Few will question the first two precepts in terms of World War II, or in regard to present and future applications. As to the third, new conditions must be examined. Air power has basically two limiting factors: the “will of the people” and of their civilian political leaders to apply air power, and the capability to penetrate enemy defenses without intolerable losses.  Limitation stemming from a lack of will on the part of the people and their civilian political leaders is