and Japanese dead have been put as high as one million in each country. Of these victims, perhaps 20 percent were children. Before the outbreak of World War II, the United States condemned the terror bombing of Spanish civilians by Hitler. By 1945 it was inflicting the same horror on the Axis. One of these two contradictory positions had to be wrong. In fact, the United States slid from the moral high ground at the outbreak of World War II to nuclear ground zero by the end of it. Thus, while Americans rightly deplore the failure of the Japanese to apologize to China for its war crimes or to cite them in the historical record taught to Japanese schoolchildren, Americans cannot gloss over their country's own record of terror bombing in World War II and beyond. Indeed, the failure of Americans in general to recognize this fault has impaired their moral vision so that reckless interventions abroad invariably are colored to appear noble. This is why Presidents Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon could lay waste to Vietnam and George W. Bush can launch a war of aggression against Iraq on the pretext of destroying nuclear weapons while at the same time warning other nations not to develop them at their peril. Only when the United States rediscovers its moral compass will it once again be able to regain the moral high ground in international affairs. And what better time is there to begin than now, when public interest in World War II history is enjoying a resurgence?10/6/24, 9:19 PM How the United States reversed its policy on bombing civilians. - Free Online Library https://www.thefreelibrary.com/How+the+United+States+reversed+its+policy+on+bombing+civilians.-a0133755144 8/10  File: --- sherwood_civilians.pdf --- Page 9 --- Advertisement. Bad banner? Please let us know The Free Library > Communications > News, opinion and commentary > The Humanist > July 1, 2005Sherwood Ross, who writes on World War II history, is a public relations consultant for nonprofit organizations bas