bably the oldest soldier now alive never witnessed." (17) Defensive field works were a novelty to the Germans ; but, on account of the tremendous power they added to the defence, they were not long in recognizing their value. Abattis played a prominent part at Metz as did wire fencing in the siege of Paris, during which gunboats were used on the Seine, and iron-clad wagons in more than one of the sorties. Finally, the most important tactical lessons to be learnt from this war are : Firstly ; as Moltke says, " It is only the laity who believe that they can trace throughout the course of a campaign the prosecution of an original plan, arranged beforehand in all its detail and observed to the very close [of operations]." (18) In other words, a war of masses is a war of accidents in which genius is out of place. Secondly ; that the individual order of fighting has become the only battle formation for infantry ; in attack or defence in the field it is skirmishers only who  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 126 RETO CONSOLIDATION OF GERMANY can hold their own. Thirdly ; once engaged, the energy of infantry is rapidly exhausted, the moral shock of the breech-loader being as effective as its physical blow. Fourthly ; the cavalry charge is dead and with it the bayonet assault. Lastly ; whether the battle is to be fought methodically or by manœuvre the full power of artillery must be developed from the start, and not only must artillery be concentrated against a part of the enemy's position but it must be under the command of one man. TREATY OF FRANKFORT On January 18, 1871, ten days before the armistice was signed, an event of supreme importance took place in the Palace of Versailles, for there in the Hall of Mirrors, on the ceiling of which and at the base of the central painting, is inscribed " Le Roi Gouverne Par Lui-même," on the initiative of the King of Bavaria, the traditional ally of France, William I of Prussia was proclaimed Emperor of Germany. In July the year before F