aim with precision ? " Here is his picture of the cavalry attackers : " The signal is given. Along the whole line the drums and bugles beat or sound the charge. A furious clamour replies : the cry of fear or frenzy of a delirious mass, which to use Souvarof's vigorous expression ' flies to the front ' ! Bounding and shrieking the human torrent rushes on !" (12) Am I wrong in suggesting that warfare is closely related to lunacy ? The worst offender, not because he was the most miserable but because he was the most eminent, in mechanizing morale, was the late Marshal Foch, who, when an instructor at the French Staff College, gave a series of lectures since published under the title, Des principes de la guerre. (18) These lectures were read between the years 1894 and 1900. He opened them by complaining that the old teaching dealt with the material side of war and that the moral side was only glanced at ; yet throughout these lectures he materializes morale, his doctrine being a mixture of Clausewitz and du Picq. He rightly extols the study of war, quoting General von Willisen's famous saying : " Vom Wissen zum Können ist immer ein Sprung ; der Sprung aber ist vom Wissen und nicht vom Nichtwissen." He then says that knowledge " lies at the root of will," which is perfectly true ; but knowledge to be of real value must be trans- muted into terms of understanding. Clausewitz he knows well, but he does not understand him. He says : " It is because the whole of Europe has now come back to the national thesis, and therefore to armed nations that we stand compelled to-day to take up again the absolute concept of war." This is illogical, 159 because though in Clausewitz's day it was necessary to arm an entire people in order that this people might be turned into a nation, it is not consequently necessary, once this nation has been formed, to continue with the absolute conception ; this oversight led this great soldier into a most astounding error. To prove that any improvement