to retreat." OUTLINE OF THE WAR Negotiations broke down on February 5, 1904. Simultaneously the First Japanese Army under General Kuroki began to disembark at Chemulpo; and on the 8th, the main fleet, under Admiral Togo, sailed for Port Arthur and after a series of operations blockaded the Russian fleet. Advancing from Chemulpo over a road- less country, on May I Kuroki met General Zasulich and defeated him in the battle of the Yalu, which, as it has been said, was the Valmy of Eastern warfare, for though the Russians were in inferior numbers their defeat showed clearly that they were not invincible. Under cover of this victory, the Second Army, under General Oku, landed at Pitszewo on May 5, and, on the 26th, defeating the Russians at Nanshan, drove them into the tip of the Port Arthur peninsula and so isolated the fortress. Meanwhile the Third Army, under General Nogi, landed at Pitszewo and relieved Oku, who moved north, whilst the Fourth Army, under General Nozu, was formed at Takushan. These initial operations being entirely successful and  174 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION Hei kou tạt Mukden R. Shaho o Yentai R. Liao Ho From Pekin Liao-Yang 6 Anping R. Hun R. Taï-tzu . Haicheng Motien-ling River Ai Feu-shui-ling Ta-shih-chiao Niu-chuang Feng-huango-chang Kaiping Kuroki nzPON 0 Antung Taku-shan Wiju R Yalu 6 Teli ssu Oku YELLOW SEA Pitszewo Nanshan 0 10 20 30 40 50 Miles Port Dalny Arthur RUSSO-JAPANESE WAR, 1904-1905. RET LAST OF WARS OF EXPANSION 175 the Russian fleet neutralized, the Japanese plan was for the First, Third, and Fourth Armies to move north- wards converging upon Liao-yang, whilst the Second Army operated against Port Arthur. Meanwhile, such pressure was brought to bear upon Kuropatkin that entirely against his wishes he was compelled to assume the offensive. This resulted in General Stakelberg and 35,000 men being sent southwards. Entrenching at Telissu, on June 14-15 he was attacked by Oku, who lapping round both his flanks severely defeated h