altimore. These facts are unalterable, for they are acts of God. Even if it were desirable, how can qualitative dis- armament be made a reality ? Bombing aeroplanes are built in the same workshops as commercial aeroplanes ; machinery which turns out typewriters and calculating machines can be adapted to turn out rifles and machine- guns ; railway and tractor works can build tanks and lorry works armoured cars ; chemical works which manufacture pharmaceutical products can readily manufacture high explosives ; dye works can produce tear and mustard gas ; cellulose is used for artificial silk and smokeless powders ; glycerine for soap or dynamite, etc., etc. Thus it comes about that " every great factory in time of peace is a potential arsenal." (10) Industries are the foundations of war strength, and  254 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION industry depends upon power-coal and oil, and to a lesser extent upon water-power. Nations which to-day do not possess power can be disarmed directly the great industrial nations decide to put an end to the arms trade. for a state without industries cannot produce modern weapons. " Without a national carburant there in no national independence," thus writes General Denvignes, and Lord Curzon once said : " Who has the petrol has the Empire" ; a remark which should be remembered each time the United States of America proposes a reduction in naval armaments. The truth would appear to be that though new carburants may be discovered, a time is approaching when no single nation, great or small, will possess within its frontiers all the industries necessary to wage a successful war. Without such industries economic nationalism as understood to-day cannot be guaranteed. This means, that if war cannot be waged by a single state it can only be waged by an alliance of states, and unless this alliance possesses a peace potential capable of fulfilling the demands of scientific warfare, warfare of this nature cannot be waged at all. Until this climax a