erent, but the end was the same. Tariff walls begot entrenchments not built against any one nation but against all nations. The world became a gold rush encampment ; each nation, like each gold-digger, carrying a gun on its hip. Why ? Not to attack anyone in particular but to defend itself. Defence is now on every man's lips, no one talks of aggression, because the victors wish to hold fast to what they have gained, and the vanquished, as long as they are disarmed, are unable to differ. Fear remains as deep-rooted as ever, and it is the elimination of the causes of fear and not the search after the definition of aggression which is the true problem of disarmament. Defence is but offence reversed, the difference between these two forms of fighting being simply an attitude of mind which may at any moment be turned upside down by popular emotionalism. It is thought by those of narrow intelligence that fortifications have a permenant defensive value and that they cannot be classed as aggressive in intention. Nothing is more inexact ; for the history of war shows again and again that fortifications form excellent bases from which to launch offensive operations. Did not Napoleon say : " The whole art of RE INFLUENCE UPON WORLD ORDER 249 war consists in a well-reasoned and extremely circumspect defensive, followed by rapid and audacious attack ? " The problem of disarmament is a problem of causes and not a problem of effects, and until nations see it in this light it will remain a problem unsolved. It is a problem of economics and economic diseases, and also a problem of social psychology and political fear. The peace potential of a nation is its war potential; for a nation which possesses great industries is powerful for war, and a nation which possesses few is incapable even of going to war unless against an equally weak nation, or unless it is allied to an industrial neighbour, or supplied with arms from outside. As a matter of fact few even of the greatest industrial n