e policies of their respective governments, because these armies, in constitution, belonged to a social epoch which was dead and gone. For over a hundred years civilization had been built upon science and steam-power, yet, in 1914, armies were still organized on muscle-power, (5) the power upon which nations had been constituted prior to the advent of the steam-engine, the dynamo and the petrol-engine, the telegraph and the telephone. As the main target in war-the will of the nation-grew in size through intellectual expansion and sensitive- ness, so do we see in order to protect these targets, armies becoming not more intelligent and more scientific, but more brutal, ton upon ton of human flesh being added, until war strengths are reckoned in millions in place of thousands of men." (6) Yet in spite of this amazing foolishness the soldier remained a human creature controlled by his instinct of self-preservation. The bullet, fired to kill, awoke him from his hallucination and he at once turned to make good his hundred years of scientific neglect. " Invention was thereupon piled upon invention, but the killing theory still held the field, until towards the close of the war it became apparent to some that science was so powerful that it could even dispense with the age-old custom of killing and could do something far more effective-it could petrify the human mind with fear. It could, in fact, directly dictate the will of one nation to another, and with vastly reduced bloodshed. It could, in fact, enforce policy with far less detri- ment to the eventual peace than had ever been possible before. The idea of the moral shock, in place of the physical assault, was just beginning to flutter over the blood-soaked battlefields when the Armistice of November 11, 1918, brought hostilities to a close." (7)  234 RE CHANGING NATURE OF WAR WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION I will now turn to the weapons of the moral attack and very briefly examine their powers. THE WEAPONS OF THE MORAL AT