rt of it called Germany. I do so because I believe that since the industrial revolution the foundations of all political actions are economics. The civilization of 1899-1914 was economic, the origins of the war begotten by this civilization were economic, and the struggle itself was not so much a struggle between arsenals as between hostile manufactories. The link between all these economic forms was political-the expression of industry in the language of diplomacy. After 1871, as I have shown, Germany became an industrial nation. After 1877 she became a highly protected one dependent upon free markets. Then, too late to achieve much, she turned to colonial expansion ; lastly she established a system of peaceful penetration which was counter-attacked by hostile tariffs. To enforce her economic policy upon her neighbours she had her immensely powerful army ; but to enforce her will on her overseas competitors her army was useless, so she built an immensely powerful fleet. Every time a hostile tariff was raised against her she said that she was being encircled, and demanded her place in the sun. When it came to argument she invariably laid a revolver upon the table before opening her mouth, and the result was that the nations became frightened and coalesced against her. 191 Her expenditure at home was enormous, not only because of her army and navy but because her social services were on a vast scale. Wealthy beyond dream compared with what she had been before 1870, her overdraft yearly grew in size. Behind her perilous banking system stood popular opinion-democracy. Whenever her policy was thwarted a wave of " foaming chauvinism " swept over the country. Though the German Government was pacific, popular opinion was bellicose, driving the Government along a precipitous path, and one which must lead to war. For a hundred and fifty years Europe had been endeavouring to deprive Kings and Governments of the right to make peace and war, and it was " thought that with the c