mer and to fret. Nationalism had been rigorously suppressed, reaction was in the saddle ; the art of war had been utterly changed, yet once again military traditionalism was donning its old harness. Nevertheless, one factor advanced irresistably, a slow, inflowing tide which was destined to submerge the old world and refertilize it. This factor was steam- power, which, like a little cloud, had appeared on the horizon of an agriculturally constituted order of society, and was now daily swelling in size, and darkening this horizon with much future thunder. Here was the Master fated to dominate the hundred years under review ; which no reaction could halt, which no reform could enchain. A one-eyed force, as I have called it, which was destined like Polyphemus to lose his eye and become the blind tyrant of peace and war-energy, stupendous, roaring, sightless, energy-the consumer of human flesh. It would be out of place here to examine the civil side of this question, but as I shall later on have occasion to show how slowly the soldier learnt to realize what science and industry meant to him, it is only fair to point out 37 RETO  38 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RETO THE CHANGING WORLD that his obtuseness was no greater than that of his civilian brothers. For example, excepting the short line between Stockton and Darlington, in 1832 the only railway in England was the one joining Liverpool to Manchester. When a few years before this date the construction of this line was proposed, a meeting of Manchester ministers denounced the project as being " contrary to the law of God." Lord Derby drove the surveyors off his land, and Stephenson had to hire a prize-fighter to carry his theodolite to prevent it from being smashed to pieces. Pamphlets were written and newspapers hired to revile his work. It was declared that the railway would prevent cows grazing, hens laying, and would cause ladies to give premature birth to children at " the sight of these things going forward at the