he history of mankind, in which war should cease, and the rivalry of the nations should at length find its true scope in the advancement of the arts of peace." (11) Then Mr. Fyffe writes : " Never had the ideal of industrious peace been more im- pressively set before mankind than in the years which succeeded the convulsion of 1848. Yet the epoch on which Europe was then about to enter proved to be pre-eminently an epoch of war. In the next quarter of a century there was not one of the Great Powers which was not engaged in an armed struggle with its rivals. Nor were the wars of this period in any sense the result of accident, or disconnected with the stream of political tendencies which make the history of the age. With one exception [the war in the Crimea] they left in their train great changes for which the time was ripe, changes which for more than a generation had been the recognized objects of national desire, but which persuasion and revolution had equally failed to bring into effect." (12) War was to solve what peace desired but could not establish ; war was to compel change, because peace could only argue over consequences. It is not easy to hammer a dozen pieces of iron into one lump, but it is easy to fuse them together by fire, and what fire is in the physical world war is in the political. So it happened that once again Europe was to be plunged into the crucible by blind forces and by blind men. If a new war-epoch was about to open, as indeed it was, what would be its nature ? What form would it take, and what would be its deciding factor ? Did the soldiers ask themselves these questions ? No; once again were they going to stumble into war blindfolded. In 1851 a rifled musket of the Minié pattern was first introduced into the British Army and tried out in the  62 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION Kaffir War of 1852, during which it was discovered that " at a range of from twelve to thirteen hundred yards small bodies of Kaffirs could be dispersed." (18) Its we