rsburg, England, Russia and France agreed to put an end to the conflict between Greece and Turkey, and the result was the naval battle of Navarino, fought on October 20.  VOICE NIGHT MUTING 24 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION FOUNDATIONS OF NATIONALISM The next year Russia invaded Bulgaria, and the year following General Diebitsch laid siege to Silistria and marched on Adrianople. Meanwhile civil war had broken out in Portugal : Then came the year of reckoning-1830. In July Charles X was driven off the throne of France ; in August Belgium revolted against Holland ; in November Poland was in open war against Russia and Diebitsch marched on Warsaw. Hanover and Hesse-Cassel boiled over in turmoil ; disturbances rent Austria, Hungary and Switzerland, whilst many risings took place in Italy. In the spring of 1831 the Poles were defeated at Ostrolenka and the Constitution of Poland was abolished. Simul- taneously the Papal States revolted to be crushed by Austria, and Mehemet Ali of Egypt invaded Syria, laying siege to the fortress of St. Jean d'Acre and occupying Damascus. Such, in brief, was the almost universal urge of nation- alism against reaction. The years 1816-1831 were some of the most bloody in European history, yet not a single great battle was fought. THE CONQUEROR OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY While fear held the statesmen back greed pushed the industrialists forwards. In England manufacture was rapidly replacing agriculture as the staple industry, and the Napoleonic wars stimulated this replacement ; for whilst Europe was being hammered this way and that upon the anvil of the French Emperor's ambition, England became the workshop and repair shop of the shattered continent. Then the war ended, and people could no longer afford to buy. Prices fell, the markets were flooded with manufactured articles and colonial produce ; thousands of men were thrown out of work by the sudden stoppage in the production of warlike stores ; so it came about that universal distress accom