ced upon them, they would fight for their hearths and homes to the bitter end. Having thus attempted to place herself in the right, eight days later, on January II, Germany committed an egregious political blunder. Von Eck- hardt, the German Minister in Mexico, was instructed to 213 negotiate an alliance between Mexico and Japan against the United States. Then, not waiting to ascertain the result, on January 31 she announced an unrestricted submarine war in which hospital ships were to be sunk. This campaign opened on February I. Her reasons for this drastic measure, which two days later caused the United States to sever diplomatic relations with her, appear to be : first, that she realized that Russian morale was nearing breaking point ; secondly, that the havoc caused by her submarines during 1916, if continued and accentuated, would bring England to her knees ; and thirdly, that these events would be accomplished before America could make her military influence felt. As we know, her reasons were misjudged, mainly because she did not understand British pertinacity_and endurance. Meanwhile the Entente Powers opened the new year with vain attempts to put their house in order and establish some semblance of co-ordination. On January 5 an Inter-Allied Conference assembled at Rome to discuss co-operation in Macedonia ; on January 17 another was held in Petrograd to establish some form of war policy ; then, on January 24 an Allied Naval Conference took place in London to outline a policy for the Mediterranean, and on February 26 an Anglo-French Conference was assembled at Calais to discuss the co-operation of the British and French Armies, and the co-ordination of operations by the French Commander-in-Chief. Nothing definite came of these conversations, and so the Entente floundered on, not blind-folded and seeing nothing, but many-headed and seeing all things and their shadows at once. To return to German policy. Ever since the murder of Rasputin things in Russia had g