iflemen. Whilst the mind of the Austrian Staff floated in a nebulous past that of the Prussian probed into the future. This was the true secret of their success. Ever since 1852 Moltke had studied the use of railways for strategic movement, and also the telegraph, and by means of the latter he directed operations during the opening days of the war from Berlin. Further, he had saturated his mind with the doctrines of Clausewitz, which, right or wrong, endowed his strategy with a one-pointedness totally lacking in his opponent's. His problem was by no means an easy one; for, besides his advance on Austria directly supported by Saxony, he had to wage a campaign against the Hano- verians, Bavarians, Hessians, Württembergers, Badensers and Nassauers reinforced by an Austrian division in western Germany. Fortunately for him Italy advanced into Venetia, and though, on June 24, Victor Emmanuel's army was defeated at Custozza, 80,000 Austrians were drawn away from the main theatre of war. In Italy this force remained until after Prussia's victory at Königgrätz (Sadowa). Foreseeing that on account of railway communications his enemy would move on Olmütz, Moltke decided to ad- vance two armies into Bohemia : the First, under Prince Frederick Charles, on Münchengrätz, and the Second, under the Crown Prince, on Trautenau-Nachod. These two armies were to unite in the vicinity of Gitschin. RISE OF PRUSSIA 105 Nachod Skalitz Parschnitz Josefstadt Jaromer Königinhof Trautenau Königgråtz R. Elle O Sadowa o Hohenelbe WAR IN BOHEMIA, 1866. Miles Gitschin 10 0 - 5 0 - o Mű nchengrätz Liebenau R. Iser RETU  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 106 As Prince Frederick Charles neared Münchengrätz, the Austrians under Clam-Gallas retired to Gitschin, and the Crown Prince, having sustained a check at Trautenau and gained victories at Nachod and Skalitz, compelled Benedek, the Austrian Commander-in-Chief, to fall back on Sadowa. On June 30 the two Prussian armies were sufficiently close to unite at s