there he saw the strategic value of the Mississippi, and without awaiting orders he occupied Paducah which blocked the mouth of the Tennessee river. The struggle for the Mississippi had begun, and out of it grew an amazing strategical plan. 93 Early in November Grant urged Halleck, his command- ing officer, to move on Forts Henry and Donelson, two works built by the Confederates to block the Tennessee and Cumberland rivers ; yet it was not until February I that Halleck gave Grant orders to make the movements, which he did on February 6 and 16 respectively. The fall of Donelson was the first decisive success gained by the Federals during the war. It won Kentucky and laid Tennessee open to invasion ; it swept back the whole Confederate line, depriving the South of an area which would have supplied it with at least 100,000 soldiers. The loss of Donelson compelled the Confederates to abandon the Mississippi between Cairo and Memphis, and led to the battle of Shiloh, on April 6-7, in which Grant was surprised and only saved himself from defeat by his courage and tenacity. Then followed the occupa- tion of Corinth, and the capture of New Orleans on May I, and, what was even more important, the removal of Halleck on July 11, to Washington, which enabled Grant rapidly to develop the strategy which ultimately won the war. After Shiloh Grant clearly saw that the next move should be made on Vicksburg ; for, Vicksburg won, the entire Mississippi would be in Federal hands and the Confederacy would not only be cut in half but com- pletely blockaded. First clearing the area around Corinth and Iuka, in November he moved south, but was compelled to fall back on account of a raid which cut his line of communications. Then he moved south again, this time down the Mississippi, and, on January 30, 1863, arrived at Milliken's Bend a little north of Vicksburg. From here for three months he carried out a desperate campaign among the swamps, and then decided to run the gauntlet of the Vicks