s adminis- trative base of operations-its food supply. This stupendous project was put into force on May 5, 1864. Rapidly Grant moved forward, and battle after battle took place in Virginia-in the Wilderness, at Spottsylvania, North Anna, Totopotomoy and Cold Harbour, the last being fought on June 3. With con- sumate skill Lee defended himself ; then, on June 15, Grant, with an audacity seldom equalled, swung across his enemy's front, bridged the James river and lay siege to Petersburg. Meanwhile Sherman moved forward, entered Atlanta on September 2, carried out a campaign against General Hood, marched through Georgia and occupied Savannah on December 21. Grant, having been held up before Petersburg during the autumn and winter of 1864, in the spring of the 95 following year, as Sherman was approaching from the south, determined to move south of Petersburg and so prevent Lee from joining up with the forces opposing Sherman. This brought about the withdrawal of Lee and, on April 9, 1865, the surrender of his army at Appo- mattox Court House. Such was the general strategy of the campaign, a vast encircling movement, and the eventual attrition physical, moral and economic of the entire Confederacy, a condi- tion such as we do not meet with again until 1918. THE TACTICS OF THE WAR Tactically this war is an interesting one. Fighting opened much as it had done in the wars which followed the French Revolution, the Federals attempting to imitate regular soldiers and the Confederates naturally taking to a loose order of fighting. Throughout the war the rifle proved the dominant factor, the bayonet was little used and assaults proved increasingly costly. After Shiloh practically every battlefield was entrenched, and in the later stages of the war in Virginia field defences assumed an aspect similar to that seen fifty years later in north-eastern France. Thus did the defensive grow in& strength. Colonel Lyman writes : " Put a man in a hole and a good battery on a hill behind h