d occupy half a continent. How immense an army was demanded by such an operation was not realized until after the First Battle of Bull Run, fought on July 21, 1861. In this fight, which took place almost under the entrenchments of Washington, the Confederate Govern- ment unwittingly started out on an admirable strategy ; for the rout of the Federal forces so terrified Lincoln and his ministers that for more than two and a half years the security of Washington obsessed the Northern political brain to such an extent that it distorted the whole of the Union strategy in the East. The first result was that Lincoln gave General McClellan command of the army. This soldier, though an able strategist and administrator, possessed little fighting instinct. He saw that the protection of Wash- ington lay in threatening Richmond, and that to defeat the South demanded a highly organized army. His plan was to transfer by sea 100,000 men to Fortress Monroe, to advance this army on Richmond, whilst another army, 40,000 strong, under General McDowell advanced from Washington southwards. McClellan's advance was methodical in the extreme, and by the time he was in sight of Richmond Lee was sending Jackson into the valley of Virginia, which so played upon the nerves of the Federal Government that McDowell's army was with- drawn. This wrecked Mcclellan's plan ; he was defeated in the Seven Days' battle and retired to the river James to reorganize. The terror in Washington was so great that it was decided to withdraw Mcclellan, and meanwhile, in order to protect the capital, an army was hastily assembled about Fredericksburg under General Pope. Lee, learn- ing that Mcclellan was to be withdrawn, at once moved north, and by a brilliant outflanking manœuvre forced  92 RETO FIRST OF MODERN WARS WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION Pope back and defeated him at the Second Battle of Bull Run, on August 29 and 30. Then he committed a blunder of the first order ; he abandoned his defensive strategy and d