e Europe of 1914 had ceased to exist. A rampant nationalism had swallowed them both, and had digested them into groups of separate nations, fearful of their individual weaknesses and jealous of their neighbours' strength. Each an ethnographic group often without economic foundations ; each striving to create them out of their individual selfishnesses, until ten thousand miles of trade barriers and tariff walls were erected. Then came the economic blizzard which swept over tariff bastions, ravelins and outworks like a gas attack over an entrenched battlefield, penetrating into the financial dug-outs, trade casemates and political headquarters. As far as the British Empire is concerned, this dis- ruption, bloodless, unseen, and almost unheeded by the masses of the people, whispered in no uncertain terms the words of King Lear : " Meantime we shall express our darker purpose, Give me the map there,-Know, that we have divided In three, [five] our kingdom : and 'tis our fast intent To shake all cares and business from our age ; Conferring them on younger strengths, while we Unburthen'd crawl towards death. . . . " (1) Is it to be the same for Europe and for Western civilization ? Has the apotheosis of nationalism brought to manhood by the World War sounded the death knell of the white man's supremacy ? In the answer to this question lies much, if not all, of the future of war. THE ASIATIC REVOLUTION What was the problem once the World War was finished with ? The reconstruction of a shattered world. An intense and intensified revolution even more potent than the revolutionary storm which swept over Europe between 1815 and 1848. It was a cyclone roaring over 243 the four quarters and the seven seas of the world, and not merely a gale blowing down the corridors of Europe and Spanish America. It was bloodless, or almost so, and this shows its potency. Armed risings were few because the people were already in power ; for 1815-1848 had exalted them. The Europe of 1871-1914 dis