ed to march round the eastern flank of Sebastopol and establish another base at Balaklava and Kamiesh. Meanwhile Menshikov, having provided for the defences of the fortress, marched BLACK SEA R. Alma R Kacha ·Bakhohlseral R, Belbek Sebastopol Mr. · Inkerman Inker- man Kadikeui Balaklava R. Tchernaya 10 Miles WAR IN THE CRIMEA, 1854-1856. RETO  70 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RETO WAR PERIOD OPENS out to Simferopol, and such was the inefficiency of the security services in both armies, that, on September 25, each without knowing it crossed the other, the head of the British forces actually striking the tail of the Russians. The base of operations having been changed, the next operation was to lay siege to Sebastopol, which was as yet but lightly defended. Had the Allies launched an immediate attack, in all probability the fortress would have been carried by assault ; but Canrobert (St. Arnaud having died on September 29) and Lord Raglan delayed until October 17, and were then repulsed. The situation of the allied forces was an anxious one, for not only had they to lay regular siege to the fortress but also to protect their right flank which was open to attack. On October 25 came the attack which led to the two famous charges of the British Heavy and Light cavalry brigades. Then, on November 5, was launched a more formidable attack at Inkerman. Inkerman has been called " a soldier's battle " and there have been many like it ; there was little or no direction and no control. On the Home Ridge, where the severest fighting took place, exposed to the full blast of the enemy's fire stood Lord Raglan and his staff. Eight British generals were killed, and, at the Sand Bag Battery, General Bosquet exclaimed " What a slaughter-yard !" The moral ascendancy of the British soldier was astonishing, Fortescue says : "They met every attack virtually with a counter-offensive, and hesitated not to encounter any number whether with bullet, bayonet or butt. There never was a fight in wh