into palaces and slaves into Califs. The philosopher's stone of the West, that is what Asia desired beyond all things. Politics did not worry her much as long as she had the might of this metal. With it she could conquer the West and make the white man eat dirt, as her peoples had eaten dirt for a hundred years. What do we see here ? Whilst the West, as will be shown in the next chapter, was beginning to discover in 245 nationalism not a reality but a myth, the East set out along the same road which the West had travelled over a hundred years before. She was going to form nations, create industries, educate the proletariat-in one word achieve Oriental democracy ; and then ? Internal wars, coalitions and the Great War with Europe. To those gifted with prophetic vision, to those who can gaze knowingly into the crystal of the past, out of the smoke and the dust and the flames of the World War can be seen looming forth the form of Ogdai at the head of his Mongol hordes. THE CHAOS OF EUROPE While Asia was gaining strength, dreaming of past glories and future victory, what do we see in Europe ? A chaos of littleness. Nothing grand, but everything small, wormy and miserable. A peace of vengeance ; a peace dictated at the cannon's mouth ; a peace which inspired a lasting desire of revenge, and a peace if left intact must as inevitably as night follows day lead to a war of rectification. At Tilsit, in 1807, Napoleon had said : " Within a hundred years Europe will be Republican or Cossack." (2) Though his date is wrong, his prevision is immense, for the Treaty of Versailles attempted to accomplish both. It humiliated Germany as Napoleon had humiliated Prussia. In 1807 the French Emperor, in a conversation with Czar Alexander and the King of Prussia, turned to the latter and said : " It is part of my system to weaken Prussia ; I mean that she shall no longer be a power in the political balance of Europe." (3) This was the object of the French-inspired peace treaty of 1919. Ger