tlemen were the proper and legitimate rulers of England,"(7) demanded protec- tion for their agricultural interests and close trade within the Empire, forgetting that such trading had been the underlying cause of the revolt of her American colonies. Reaction, however, had no fulcrum to work upon, so one had to be created. The Holy Roman Empire had carried with it the idea of a central European constitu- tion ; so had the Concert of Europe born in Count Kaunitz's circular letter of July 1791. In the name of the Emperor Leopold he had urged upon the Powers to make common cause for the preservation of the " public peace, the tranquillity of States, the inviolability of possessions, and the faith of treaties," (8) and this is what the Congress of Vienna did not achieve. For twenty years Napoleon had given Europe a common interest ; fear of him had established a common life and a common struggle. By means unseen and in no way appreciated his idea of a World Empire had been infused into the blood of his conquerors. At St. Helena he had said to Las Cases, that " he had aimed at concentrating the great European peoples, divided hitherto by a multiplicity of artificial boundaries, into homogeneous nations, out of which he would have formed a confederation bound together ' by a unity of codes, principles, opinions, feelings and interests.' At the head of this league, under the ægis of his Empire, he had dreamed of establishing a central assembly . . .  VOICE NIGHT MUTING 22 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION FOUNDATIONS OF NATIONALISM to watch over the common weal of ' the great European family.' The dream had been dissipated by his ruin ; but he prophesied that it would yet be realized, sooner or later, ' by force of circumstances .' "(0) Nevertheless, though unseen, this idea was felt, it tingled in the finger-tips of Europe, then these fingers fashioned something which was monstrous to behold, not a graven image but a veritable abortion. On Septem- ber 26, 1815, two months befor