so that they may withstand the corrosive effects of propa- ganda ; for every human achievement will be distorted by the enemy to further his war ends. Wars will in fact largely become armed propaganda, steel-girt lies, demora- lizing shells and stink bombs aimed to shatter the enemy's will, every effort being simultaneously made to render one's own side explosive with fury, scorn, cruelty and hatred for the enemy, his people and his cause-such are the motive forces in democratic wars. The main military weapon of attack will, I consider, be gas, not because it is so deadly but because it is so terrifying. Yet, possibly, it will be abandoned, for in the minds of a demented and thoroughly animalized people it may be considered too humane. Nevertheless its power to surprise and above all the cheapness of its production should appeal to democracies. Finally, paradox again, the longer the war the greater will be the improvement in weapons ; armies, instead of deteriorating, as they have done in the past, will progres- sively grow more efficient, whilst civilians will become more and more demoralized, until terror coagulates into solid panic which the slightest moral shock will detonate into explosion. The final wars of the democratic age, the age of economic nationalism and of nations in arms, will be as unchivalrous as they are scientific ; they will not be pleasant affairs, or profitable ones.  CHAPTER XIV THE FOUNDATIONS OF INTERNATIONALISM, 1914-1932 The Grouping of the Nations. World Inter- dependence and War. The Spirit of the Age. War and Internationalism. WAR AND INTERNATIONALISM WITHOUT the genius of great men to lead it, Western civilization is doomed, " For, as I take it," writes Carlyle, " Universal History, the history of what man has accom- plished in this world, is at bottom the History of the Great Men who have worked here . . . all things that we see standing accomplished in the world are probably the outer material result, the practical realisation and e