anish America. It was bloodless, or almost so, and this shows its potency. Armed risings were few because the people were already in power ; for 1815-1848 had exalted them. The Europe of 1871-1914 disappeared as I have shown, because the weapon of revolution was not open revolt but the terror of possible revolt. It is not so much the cost of armaments which has ruined Europe as the cost of the tolls and doles paid to the people, the proletariat, to keep them from rising. Armaments and doles belong to one and the same order ; the first is supposed to be a security against invasion, the second against insurrection. Both in actual fact stand or fall together. Whilst Europe was boiling over, throwing the dregs to the top, Asia was in a state of rapidly increasing fermenta- tion. It was here that the greatest revolution was taking place, a social ripening in this great satrapy of. Western civilization, which one day will assume the proportions of a volcano. War has always influenced Asia vastly, because the Asiatic is a contemplative creature. Whilst war in the West is in nature an economic expression, in the East it assumes a psychological aspect. In the one it takes the form of enforced barter-gaining and losing things material ; in the other of speculation-asking who is losing, who is gaining power ? What star is in the ascendant, what star is in the decline ? For in war the Asiatic sees the horoscope of future events. The sorry termination of the Second Afghan War sent a whisper through Asia, " See the white man retires ; is it a forced retreat ? " Isandhlwana, Majuba, Gordon's death at Khartoum, Adowa and the overthrow of Greece by Turkey in 1897, are speculated upon in the monasteries of Thibet, the temples of Benares, the bazaars of Kabul, and in many a village the white man has seldom seen. To the Occidental, battles are business  244 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RE INFLUENCE UPON WORLD ORDER operations, to Orientals-straws of fate pointing which way the storms o