eir lesson, but from this campaign the French learnt nothing. Sedan was the greatest artillery battle of the war ; all the French attacks were brought to a standstill by gun fire, and most of them at 2,000 yards' distance, that is, outside effective rifle fire. At this battle " A French officer who was taken prisoner described the German fire as 'five kilometers of artillery.' " (16) Cavalry steadily lost ground. Only one successful cavalry charge was made, namely, that of Bredow's brigade at Vionville. The French were, however, short of ammunition, yet in spite of this Bredow's losses were 33 per cent., and in some regiments 50 per cent. At 125 Sedan, General Gallifet attempted a most gallant charge with his brigade of " Chasseurs d'Afrique ; " but a single volley shattered it. Archibald Forbes gives a graphic and, I think, truthful picture of this exploit. He writes : " Not a needle-gun gave fire as the splendid horsemen crashed down the gentle slope with the velocity of an avalanche. I have seen not a few cavalry charges, but I never saw a finer one. . . . It was destined to a sudden arrestment, and that without the ceremony of the trumpets sounding the ' halt.' The horsemen and the footmen might have seen the colour of each other's moustaches . . . when along the line of the latter there flashed out a sudden simultaneous streak of fire. Like thunder claps sounding over the din of a hurricane, rose the measured crash of the battery guns, and then a cloud of white smoke drifted away towards the chasseurs, enveloping them for the moment from one's sight. When it blew away there was visible a line of bright uniforms and grey horses struggling prostrate among the potato drills, or lying still in death. So thorough a destruc- tion by what may be called a single volley probably the oldest soldier now alive never witnessed." (17) Defensive field works were a novelty to the Germans ; but, on account of the tremendous power they added to the defence, they were not long in