orrect answer. This was altogether too much for the poor fellow, and throwing away his rifle, he ran from the ghostly visitant." (12) It is strange to think that here in the first conflict of this new war period were suggested three weapons, the tank, lethal gas and the submarine, which influenced so largely the last war of this period. That they were not then used is not so strange, for, as far as war is concerned, statesmen and soldiers are generally two generations behind their times. THE MUTINY IN INDIA As the war in the Crimea died out, England found herself at war both in Persia and China, and, in 1857, was faced by the Indian Mutiny, which was a national uprising, its object being to cast off British rule. In 1757, the year of Clive's victory at Plassey, it had been predicted by Hindoo astrologers that this rule would last but a hundred years ; and now, through the short- sightedness of the Government of India and the folly of Lord Dalhousie, the prediction was in part fulfilled and India began to regain her self-consciousness. As early as 1817 Thomas Munro had pointed out that unless we admitted Indians into the government of their country we were riding for a fall. Lord Hastings expressed almost identical views in 1818 ; and Sir Henry Lawrence, in 1855, pointed out that " the natives had no outlets for their talents and ambitions as of old. . . . ' These outlets for restlessness and ability are gone ; others are closing. It behoves us therefore now, more than ever, to give legitimate rewards, and as far as practicable employment, to the energetic few, to that leaven that is in every lump-the leaven that may  76 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RETO WAR PERIOD OPENS secure our empire, or may disturb, nay even destroy it.' " (13) Lord Dalhousie could not understand such liberalism, and, in the years immediately preceding the Mutiny, by humbling the Indian Princes and annexing their States he succeeded in making numerous enemies. During the conflict with Russia ma