verburdened with troubles, Frederick William was too democratically- minded " to pick up a crown out of the gutter " and refused to assume the title. He invited the States to send representatives to Berlin to examine the condition of Germany. Meanwhile came Novara and Temesvar, and Austria, once again in her old saddle, sent troops to Hesse to put down a disturbance, whereupon a Prussian army occupied Cassel and a war appeared imminent. Prussia was, however, wholly unprepared for war, and on November 29, 1850, Austria brought such pressure to bear on her that she forced her to sign a humiliating convention at Olmütz. " First to humiliate Prussia, then to destroy her " was Schwartzenberg's summary of his German policy. Prussia, having abandoned every- thing she had striven for, stood degraded in the eyes of Europe, and in 1852 the German national fleet was sold by auction. Yet from the cracked shell which now repre- sented Germany was to hatch out within a dozen years a fire-eating eagle.  58 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RETO NATIONALISM TAKES FORM THE RISE OF LOUIS NAPOLEON In France, after the " June Days " of 1848, Cavaignac reigned as dictator, but failing to establish a strong and stable government, on December 20 he was defeated by Louis Napoleon in the Presidential elections, obtaining but 1,448,107 votes to his opponent's 5,434,226. Here was the man who, less than a year back, Wellington could see nowhere. This twentieth day of December, 1848, was in the history of Europe as portentous as the eighteenth of June 1815. Then, Napoleon I was defeated at Waterloo, and a long period of peace was established. Now, his nephew was elected President of France and almost at once this peace was to be broken ; the spirit of the Little Corporal entering the body of the mystic who knew, as Thiers says, " like the snail, how to draw in his horns as soon as he met with an obstacle " and how once again to extend them when the obstacle was passed. The two men, otherwise so diff