ngth enough to defeat her adversaries on the high seas, she decided to break the blockade by establish- ing a blockade of her own by means of her submarines. This decision was met by a howl of execration and Germany was outlawed. But was her action more immoral than that of her enemies ? " There can be no doubt that, by instituting unrestricted submarine warfare the Germans violated certain laws of war made long before the advent of this weapon ; but also there can be no doubt that, if the slow starvation of German men, women and children by means of investment did not contravene the spirit of international law, then neither did unrestricted submarine warfare contravene it, though it may have infringed the letter of the tradition which this law had created. If starvation is right in one case it is right in both. The drowning of non-combatants is but an incident in the operation of killing by starvation, it does not affect the principle underlying this act." (4) If we examine the basic idea at the bottom of these three phases of the World War-the traditional attack, the matériel attack and the economic attack-we find that  232 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION it was " slaughter," not so much as a means to victory. for by soldiers it was never doubted to be the only means. but as an end in itself. Economically every nation depended on the combined prosperity of all nations. and in the main, being followers of Clausewitz, soldiers and statesmen should have realized that when he declared that war was a continuation of peace policy in another form he did not mean that it was a negation of peace policy. Yet their actions resulted in this negation, because in the days when Clausewitz outlined his doctrine all nations were economically independent, and during the three generations following his death they had become economically interdependent. It was not Clausewitz who was wrong ; they were wrong-still obsessed by the outlook of the Agricultural Age. THE THEORY OF MORAL WARFAR