ed until December the same year. During this small war, William II, in place of joining in the general outcry against the " Great Assassin," urged forward by the economic impulse and seeing large markets for German goods in Asia Minor, sided with Turkey, and, in 1898, visited Palestine. There he delivered an inflammatory oration, saying : " May the Sultan and the three hundred million Mussulmans [70,000,000 of whom were in India] scattered over the earth be assured that the German Emperor will always be their friend." (5) This same year he turned his attention to sea power, not because his intention was to threaten the security of the British Empire, but because it was imperative that German trade should be protected. Foolishly, he said : " I will never rest till I have raised my navy to the same standard to that of my army " ;(6) for this was a direct threat to the whole world and one which very naturally antagonized Great Britain. The Kaiser Wilhelm Canal having been completed in 1895, which itself was the foundation of German naval power as it linked the Baltic to the North Sea ; in 1898 the first Navy Act, pro- viding for 12 battleships and 41 cruisers, was passed by the Reichstag, the Kaiser, on September 23, proclaiming " Our future lies on the water." By 1898 the peace which had been established after the Franco-Prussian War had definitely transformed 141 Europe into an armed camp. Except in the Balkans, the urge of the nations was no longer towards liberty but towards security ; for as Spinoza had said over two cen- turies before : " Liberty or strength of soul are the virtue of private persons ; the virtue of the State is security." (?) A sure sign of the gathering war clouds was the assembly of the Hague Peace Conference in May to July, 1899 ; for when nations talk of peace they think in terms of war. Two of the conventions agreed upon are of especial interest, namely : " (a) Prohibition of the launching of projectiles and explosives from balloons or by ot