artillery coming down the slope without any pretence of formation, the French hotly following and pouring in a heavy and con- stant fire as the fugitives fled back across the ravine towards Gravelotte." (0) The position at St. Privat being turned at Roncourt by the Saxons, the French resistance collapsed and a withdrawal was made towards Metz . Moltke hearing of this at once invested Bazaine in Metz, and with the rest of his forces followed up his retiring enemy. On the 29th he came in contact with MacMahon at Nouart, fought him at Buzancy on the 30th, and drove him into Sedan on the 31st. On September I the Emperor, his Marshals, 82,000 men and 558 guns, being completely surrounded and having no hope of escape, surrendered to William I of Prussia. Archibald Forbes tells us that the night after the French disaster at Sedan he slept at the château of Belle Vue in the bed which had been occupied the night before by Napoleon III. Then he writes : " He had apparently been reading in bed, for a translation of Lord Lytton's Last of the Barons lay turned on its face, on a little table by the bedside." If that is not a piece of journalistic license then it is indeed a fitting close to a strange man's career. With the capitulation of Napoleon the French Empire crashed to the ground, and, on September 4, a Republic was proclaimed under the leadership of Gambetta, To the Germans the war seemed won, for they did not I2I then realize that the same spirit, the spirit of nationalism, which had carried them from the Rhine to the Meuse, was now by their very successes breathed into the heart of every Frenchman. "In 1848," wrote Blanqui, " Democracy stood alone and allowed itself to be destroyed ; in 1870 it has the country behind it, and this time it will defend itself with teeth and claws." (7) Moltke had hoped that by the end of October he would be " shooting hares at Creisau." Instead, he was hard put to it at Paris. By the end of September the capital was surrounded and Headquar