o them war meant killing, and, consequently, hunting in England was considered the highest form of military training. In 1907 Colonel F. N. Maude, a thinking soldier who had not hypnotized himself on the bayonet point, wrote : " It is Science and Science alone that supplies the power now daily driving us towards a cycle of wars . . . trade-hunger created by inventions is now impelling us towards armed collision."(1) Consequently, if science was driving the world towards war, science would of a certainty drive the world through this war, and therefore to science must the soldier turn in order to win it. Earlier still, in 1883, General von der Goltz had said : " The day will come when the present aspect of war will dissolve, when forms, customs and opinions will again be altered. Looking forward into the future, we seem to feel the coming of a time when the armed millions of the present will have played out their part. A new Alexander will arise who, with a small body of well-equipped skilled warriors, will drive the impotent hordes before him ; when, in their eagerness to multiply, they shall have overstepped all proper bounds, have lost cohesion, and, like the green-banner army of China, have become transformed into a numberless, but effete, host of Philistines." (2) 0  226 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET CHANGING NATURE OF WAR These words were read by soldiers but, like the seed on the rocky soil, they fell upon petrified minds. Alone in the army of Great Britain was quality rather than quantity aimed at. Musketry had been reduced to an art as high as that of archery during the Hundred Years War. But then there were great generals who understood war as a progressive art. Edward III was no traditionalist. he created a new tactics, whilst the British generals of 1914 copied an old. They, like the French, German, Russian and Austrian, were prepared for war. But what kind of war ? That was the question. TRADITIONAL WARFARE The war opened on sound, traditional lines. T