ed in the Piræus and, on December 14, the Greeks were compelled by ultimatum to withdraw their entire forces from Thessaly. These actions, which were anything but honourable, show the growing strength of the Entente. From now onwards, the Central Powers are ranged against the Entente and the world. This is realized by Germany and her Allies, for, on December 12, they each separately presented notes to the United States Ambassadors in their respective countries request- ing them to inform the Governments of the Entente Powers that they were ready to negotiate for peace. On December 30, the Entente Powers rejected these proposals. During this year we see developing the physical attrition of both sides ; but, added to this, the Central Powers are also suffering from a moral attrition, and as they lose neutral support so do their opponents gain it. The Entente Powers began to attempt some co-ordina- tion of policy and effort. On January 24 the first Military Service Bill was passed by the House of Commons, and, before the end of the year, National Service was established in Great Britain. On March 26-28 an Inter-Allied Conference was assembled at Paris to enquire into military, economic and diplomatic affairs, and another was assembled, on November 15, at which policy and strategy were discussed. Then, on December 7, the greatest impetus was given for the continuance of the war : Mr. Lloyd George succeeded Mr. Asquith as British Premier, and two days later a War Cabinet was formed in London. The reconstruc- tion of the British Government was immediately followed by the reorganization of the French, and on the very day that this took place, namely, December 12, the Central Powers indented their peace notes to the United States Ambassadors. The year ended with a foreboding event; on December 31 Rasputin was murdered in Petrograd.  212 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET GRAND STRATEGY OF THE WAR 1917. THE YEAR OF MORAL ATTRITION Though the physical attrition of 1916 was to c