s astonishing, Fortescue says : "They met every attack virtually with a counter-offensive, and hesitated not to encounter any number whether with bullet, bayonet or butt. There never was a fight in which small parties of scores, tens and even individuals, showed greater audacity or achieved more surprising results. They never lost heart nor, by all accounts, cheerfulness. The enemy might be in front, flanks or rear, or at all three points together : it mattered not. They flew at them, quite undismayed and bored their way out. ... Never have the fighting qualities of the British soldier been seen to greater advantage than at Inkerman. But it was wrong to call Inkerman, as it was styled, a soldier's 71 battle. It was a regimental officer's battle, and to the regimental officer belongs the credit." (8) Winter now came, yet no preparations had been made. From November 10 the rain poured down on troops without clothing, without camp kettles and without fuel ; troops who had to eat their salt pork raw. The roads in the camps were seas of mud ; a ham cost two guineas and beer three shillings the bottle. The men died by scores and hundreds daily of diarrhea, dysentery and cholera. The medical services were strangled by red-tape, and when, on November 4, Florence Nightin- gale arrived at the Barrack Hospital, she found it standing in "a sea of sewage." With fierce resolution and courage she set to work and reduced the death rate from 42 per cent. to 2, while the politicians at home, terrified by the reports they received, did their utmost to shift the responsibility on to Lord Raglan. Meanwhile Colonel Todleben, the Russian engineer in chief, added work after work to Sebastopol. In 1855, on account of Louis Napoleon's persistent interference, Canrobert resigned and was replaced by Pélissier, a soldier of resolute character. In May this general captured Kerch, and by cutting the peninsular off from the mainland sealed the doom of the fortress. On June 7 an assault was made on