f Mudros, signed on October 30, and the third removed Austria-Hungary by the Armistice of November 3. Unity of command on the side of the Entente Powers, backed by superiority of man-power and weapon-power and supported by the will of the world, led to final victory. The German armies fought vallantly to the last, but eventually they were overcome, not by the Allied Powers alone but by the flank attacks of their own allies and by the rear attacks of their own people. On October 31 revolution broke out in Vienna and Budapest, and on November 7 Bavaria proclaimed herself a Republic. Already, on November 3, the German crews at Kiel had mutinied ; on the 9th a revolution was proclaimed in Berlin ; on the 10th the Kaiser crossed the Dutch frontier and on the 11th at Rethondes Station in the Forest of Compiègne an armistice was concluded between the Allied and Associated Powers and Germany, and the only belligerent nation who in any way gained her object in the war was England. I will briefly enquire into this remarkable ending. It has already been mentioned that on January 8 of this year President Wilson outlined his " Fourteen Points," which, as regards the self-determination of nations, closely coincided with the doctrine of Lenin. I have said that if Germany had accepted the " Fourteen Points " at the beginning of 1918 she might well have obtained a peace which would have brought the war to an unpleasant though not a disastrous termination. She waited, however, until October 4, and then sent a note 223 to President Wilson proposing an armistice. President Wilson replied to this note on the 14th, and his reply was accepted by the German Government on the 20th, and on the 23rd was submitted to the Allied and Associated Governments. On November 3 the Allied Governments agreed to Germany's proposal for an armistice, and on the 11th it was signed on French soil ; that is the significant point. There can be no doubt that the German Armies were beaten, that her fleet was bea