," that is between the followers of the Jesuits and those of Lola Montez, the King's mistress. And the quarrel ended in the famous Irish adventuress having to pack up bag and baggage and depart. Prussia, however, was united ; and on March 18 Frederick William put forward a scheme whereby a Parliament for all Germany was to be created and a Constitutional Government established in each German State. Three days later he placed himself at the head of the German nation. Meanwhile the Duchies of Schleswig and Holstein, which were no more a part of Denmark than Hanover was of England, revolted against the Danish Crown, and on March 24 the Holsteiners formed a Provisional Govern- ment at Kiel. Whereupon the Prussian Government recognized the autonomy of the Duchies, and the Diet of Frankfort, expressing the will of Germany, demanded 57 that Schleswig and Holstein should enter the Federation. Frederick William thereupon sent an army under General Wrangel into Holstein to drive the Danes out. Russia, Sweden and Austria resenting this action, Frederick William ordered the troops to be withdrawn. Wrangel refused and the invasion continued until Austria and Prussia were on the verge of war. As the only alternative to meeting Austria (backed by Russia) was an alliance with " the devil's nephew " Louis Napoloen, who was already dreaming of a Rhine frontier for France, Frederick William gave way and the Danish troops reoccupied the Duchies. The real trouble between Austria and Germany was not so much Schleswig Holstein as the former's fear of a united Germany. Austria was supported by Bavaria ; but Brunswick, Baden, Nassau, Mecklenburg and various other States sided with Prussia. The crisis came in March 1849, when Frederick William was chosen Emperor. Though at the time Austria was overburdened with troubles, Frederick William was too democratically- minded " to pick up a crown out of the gutter " and refused to assume the title. He invited the States to send representatives to B