this period the great Powers of Western Europe were at peace between them- selves their war energy was in no way abated. Small wars abounded, wars of aggression in its most violent form, because the object of each war was conquest, and, generally speaking, the total suppression of any form of national or local government in the areas absorbed. To the white man nationalism stood for freedom ; to the RETO ECONOMIC CONFLICT I37 black, the brown and the yellow man, it stood, in the white man's mind, for submission to his will. These wars cannot be examined here ; they were too many ; nor from the military point of view are they of much interest ; for, with the exception of a few disasters like Isandhlwana during the Zulu War ; Maiwand in Afghanistan in 1880, and Adowa in 1896, when in their last Abyssinian cam- paign the Italian lost over 4,500 officers and men killed and 1,500 captured, the weapons of science and civiliza- tion triumphed over the heroism and archaic equipment of barbarism-all men being barbarians who lived outside Europe and the two Americas. It was the history of Greece over again. POLITICS AND ALLIANCES With the ascendency of Germany over France, the whole of Western civilization underwent a profound change. Hitherto cosmopolitanism had been a European characteristic. Europe unconsciously felt herself to be a unit, a house of many rooms yet still one building, in which intercourse, social and commercial, was in no way greatly restricted. Now this unity became less and less tangible ; each room growing into a separate building was encompassed by tariff walls built not so much to foster home industries for peaceful but for war purposes. Thus was the idea of war injected into her political policies and stimulated by economic friction. Thus was the idea of freedom nationalized in a manner un- dreamt of in past ages, and then rationalized into an instrument for war. Gold and iron were now welded together, interfused and intermixed, and out of this seeming