d with manufactured articles and colonial produce ; thousands of men were thrown out of work by the sudden stoppage in the production of warlike stores ; so it came about that universal distress accompanied by much rioting swept over Europe. In 1819 prices declined by a half in six months ; in 1820, "'How savoury a thing roast veal is !' said one Hamburg beggar to another. 25 ' Where did you eat it ? ' said his friend, admiringly. 'I never ate it at all, but I smelt it as I passed a great man's house while the dog was being fed.' "" Thus did the clash between the classes begin. A savoury smell was destined to develop into a nauseating stench. Yet there were some who could see things as they were and would be, and among this small band of seers was Lord Cochrane, later on tenth Earl of Dundonald, one of the most remarkable men in British history. On June 2, 1818, he said in the House of Commons : " I will appeal to the knowledge of those members engaged in commerce, and ask them whether the acts of the legislative body have not been of a description, during the late war, that would, if not for the timely intervention of the use of machinery, have sent this nation to total ruin ? The country is burthened to a degree which, but for this intervention, it would have been impossible for the people to bear." (12) He saw clearly that the whole of the eighteenth century had been an age of increasing industrial develop- ment, a development which must accelerate as the years advanced. Until about 1730 British manufacture depended on foreign inventions. Ten years later smelting with coal, or coke, instead of charcoal, was adopted. In 1740 the .annual output of iron in Great Britain was about 17,000 tons ; in 1800 it was 150,000 tons, and later on, in 1840, 1,400,000 tons. In the second half of the eighteenth century machines began to make machines. And this is the true birth of the industrial revolution. In 1769, the year Napoleon was born and Wellington his conqueror, James Wa