n M  RET TURMOIL OF THE NATIONS 194 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION October 8, Montenegro declared war on Turkey. Immedi- ately Bulgaria, Serbia and Greece joined in the fray, the result being that the Turks were routed by the Bulgarians at the battles of Kirk-Kilisse and Lule-Burgas, the Serbians overrunning Macedonia and the Greeks occupy- ing Salonika. Then came a check, at Chatalja the Turk- were well entrenched, and all attacks failing an armistice was concluded on December 3. Between the Allies it was agreed that Serbia should gain an outlet to the Adriatic in northern Albania. Austria objected, and a war between her and Serbia appeared imminent when Russia stepped in. As a war between Austria and Russia would have upset the alliances, France, Germany and Great Britain called together a conference, the upshot of which was that Serbian access to the Adriatic was blocked. This upset the arrangement between the Balkan States. Serbia demanded in com- pensation a slice of Macedonia. Bulgaria refused to yield and Serbia and Greece declared war on her. Then the Roumanian army entered the field, Bulgaria was overwhelmed and lost the whole of Macedonia and the Dobruja as well. When the Peace of Bucharest was signed in August 1913, Turkey had virtually ceased to exist as a European Power. Since 1880 she had lost Bosnia, Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Thessaly, Macedonia, Thrace, Epiros, Albania and Crete. In Europe she still occupied Constantinople and Adrianople-and that was all. Roumania and Serbia had thrown off the last shreds of vassalage and Montenegro had grown in size. Cyprus had gone, Egypt had gone, Tunisia had gone and so had Tripoli. Thus was the work of Osman, Orkhan, Murad, Bayezid, Mahommed and the rest undone and done with. As late as 1683 the Turks had encamped under the walls of Vienna ; now, in 1913, they were hanging on to the European shore-line of the Propontis with their finger- tips. The struggle with Asia was at an end ; it was time a new struggle should b