THE CHANGING WORLD invented the cylindro-conoidal bullet, but the British Government failed to adopt this form of projectile until 1851. Both these inventions, indirectly due to steam-power, had eventually an enormous influence on tactics. The percussion cap rendered the musket serviceable in wet weather, reducing miss-fires in each thousand rounds from 411 to 4.5, hits being raised from 270 to 385 in a thousand shots ; whilst the cylindro- conoidal bullet caused the rifle to become the most deadly weapon of the century On the Continent, between the years 1838-1840, the French raised Chasseurs à pied in Algeria arming them with the rifle, and in 1841, the breech-loading Dreyse needle-gun was introduced into certain Prussian regi- ments. STEAM-POWER AND HUMAN VALUES As steam-power gave birth to machinery, productive and destructive, so did machinery give birth to a new social order. Already during the final decades of the eighteenth century had the machine and the engine begun to unravel the weft from the warp of agricultural society, and separating the human threads it piled them into two great heaps-the manual workers on the one side, and their employers and investors in manual work on the other. To the masters the ideals of the French Revolution were abhorrent, consequently these ideals soon found a nesting-place in the hearts of their men, whose conditions during the first half of the nine- teenth century were worse than those of the Russian workers under the Five-Year Plan to-day. In this early period of industrialization the governing idea of the manufacturers was that machinery displaced brains in the workers, and that hands were but a species of tools. As long as wealth could be accumulated the contentment and happiness of their men meant nothing to them. " It may well be doubted," writes Colonel Maude . . . " whether the French feudal laws at their worst, inflicted greater misery on the people than the 41 untrammelled action of the laissez faire school . bro