d then only if inferior powder is fired. (28) His use of cavalry in reconnaissance and pursuit was frequently superb, but it is in his employment of artillery 31 that he stands second to none, except the great Frederick himself. The reason why the field gun should have been recognized as the superior weapon of war, and artillery tactics as the most important of problems of study, lay in the simple fact that case-shot outranged the musket ball by 200 yards, and a round-shot fired in ricochet was a deadly weapon at 1,000 yards. That this was not seen was due to two causes : the first is constitutional in all armies, owing to the conservative mentality of the soldier. Field guns had become only reasonably mobile during the middle of the eighteenth century, and this was too recent a date for soldiers towards the end of this century to notice. The second has generally been overlooked, namely, the cost of the artillery arm. Wars and civil wars ruin States, and ruined States cannot afford cannon. Frederick the Great opened his career as a general by believing in shock tactics, but he soon learnt that artillery fire was the deciding factor and that guns should be massed in order to attain their fullest effect. As his enemy, the Austrians, frequently took up positions on the reverse side of a slope, he increased his howitzers to one-third of his artillery, so that by curved fire he could dislodge him. Though these tactics were forgotten, after his death they were rediscovered by the Prussians towards the end of the Napoleonic Wars. On August 10, 1813, Frederick William III issued the following instructions : "Should the enemy be on the reverse side of heights or otherwise protected, it will be advan- tageous to unite the howitzers, as a large number of shells thrown upon one spot produce a fearful effect, which for the most part it would be impossible to withstand." (24) Napoleon, though an artillery officer by training, learnt Frederick's lesson somewhat slowly. Even as lat