s Joseph de Maistre as saying : "' À battle lost is a battle one thinks one has lost ; for,' he added, ' a battle cannot be lost physically ? ' Therefore, it can only be lost morally. But then, it is also morally that a battle is won, and we may extend the aphorism by saying : A battle won is a battle in which one will not confess oneself beaten."(15) Then a little later on he adds : " The will to conquer : such is victory's first condition." True ; but not the only condition. The fact is that Foch intended to have it both ways : if you attacked with superior numbers you would win ; and if you attacked with superior morale you would win. Therefore whatever the circumstances may be-attack ! attack ! attack ! On such principles for twenty years the French Army was trained and educated. MILITARY REALITY From what has been said it may seem that in my opinion Marshal Foch was an indifferent soldier. That is not so ; he possessed an unusual insight into modern war ; but on account of his Clausewitzian complex, which coloured all his thoughts, he was unable to translate it into tactical terms. He saw clearly enough the - economic nature of war. He says : "We find to-day a third kind of national war arising," a war " bent on conquering economic advantages and advantageous treaties of commerce for each nation." In support he quotes the German economic gains after the Franco- Prussian War, and the Japanese after the China War of 1894. Again he says : " War to-day is a commercial enterprise undertaken by a whole nation. It concerns the individual more directly than did war in the past, and therefore appeals much more to individual passions . . ' The Stock Exchange has acquired such an influence that it is able to launch armies into war,' (von Moltke). Who was responsible for the Boer War ? Certainly not the Queen of England, but the merchants of the City." 161 " National egotism, breeding self-interest in politics and war, and making war a means of satisfying the growing cravi