p gaps in their lines which were promptly filled up. They were allowed to approach as far as the foot of the hill. Then one bugle sounded the charge ; a dozen others responded. . . . Nearer and nearer we came ; we heard the Russian ' Hurrah !' ; wild cries of ' Allah ! ' were started and drowned individual voices ; commands became useless. Now only a hundred paces between the charging lines-they uphill, we downhill-and at last there was a collision like that between two railway trains. . . . A chaos of stabbing, clubbing, hacking, clutching, shouting, cursing, screaming men." (6) When danger does not exist, this is the type of fighting which instinctively fascinates every soldier ; but when danger is present, when it comes to war itself, this is the type of fighting which instinctively every soldier shuns. I do not suggest that this dramatic picture is a pure invention, for the bayonet was at times used in this war. But I do suggest that the reason for its use should have been examined, which was that both sides were such miserable rifle shots that at times the bayonet could be used with effect. In the French Army considerable attention was paid to the writings of Dragomiroff. In 1884, the Regulations of 1875 were re-written. Now the supreme object in the attack was to get forward as rapidly as possible. The duty of the supports and reserves was to sustain movement rather than to protect movement by fire. Intervals between skirmishers were reduced from six to three paces. The firing line was to employ volley firing by sections, and finally the charge was to be made in two ranks shoulder to shoulder. In the 1895 Regulations we read : " As soon as the battalion has arrived within 400 metres of the enemy, bayonets are fixed, and individual fire (without maga- zines) of the greatest intensity delivered. The portions of the reserve that are available are advanced. . . . The battalion 153 in second line in the meantime gradually advances closer. The advance is made by suc