t and neutral, could only be gained by the first, which included two problems-the command of the land and the command of the sea. Neutral nations, such as the United States and Holland, did not understand this. They could not see that the ultimate aim of Germany was to impose her will on the world, and that her enemies-France, Russia and the British Empire-were in fact protecting them from such a fate. They were so concerned with their economic interests that, until they attained to a more spiritual vision, they passively supported the German ideal. Consequently, from the moral point of view, which is the ultimate point of view, the World War opened with a contest between the Entente Powers and the World. not the Central Powers alone, but the entire civilized world outside France, Russia, the British Empire, Belgium and Serbia. In nature, this contest was a two-fold one. The Entente had not only physically to conquer the Central Powers, but politically to win over the neutral nations. The Central Powers, on their side, had not only to defeat the Triple Entente, but to maintain the initial outlook of all non-belligerents. The difficulties confronted by both sides were, consequently, complex and involved. They may be examined in turn. The Entente Powers were a combination of nations without any centralizing political brain. Their immediate objectives did not coincide. Not only had they to win over neutral opinion, but also to establish concord amongst themselves. France (and I am now talking of popular opinion, for it is popular opinion which in 201 democratic countries brings so great an influence to bear on war) was fighting to regain her lost provinces ; England to drive the Germans out of Belgium, and Russia to preserve the integrity of Serbia ; and neutrals, blinded by their economic outlook, were not much concerned about the hardships of these provinces and small countries. The result was that a lack of political objective led to a wasteful use of military means