ing, and rapidly, will soon fill Europe with consternation. As this consternation grows, if Europe is to survive there can be but one answer ; she must settle her internal quarrels ; establish the freest possible trade  266 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RE 267 FOUNDATIONS OF INTERNATIONALISM among her now tariff-shackled peoples ; erect trade bastions against " Russasia," and behind them build up a formidable European army. In place of aiming at national disarmament as she is doing to-day, the likeli- hood is that within a generation from now she will be demanding compulsory group, or continental, armaments. To-day she is paltering with the problem of war, and under American influence is considering the abolition of this weapon or that. Her true problem is not to disarm, but to remain armed and yet prevent civil wars within her frontiers. To attain this end there is but one course to take, namely, to eliminate the causes of European quarrels, and, as this will take time, meanwhile to deprive the victor in a civil war, such as the World War, of legal rights to his gains. That is to say, that he is entitled to no tribute, territory or reparation arising out of the War, and that all non-belligerent nations which desire to assist a belligerent may do so by direct subsidies and not by credit or by loans. Though agreements may not be kept, it seems to me wiser, especially when the future is borne in mind, to restrict the profit side of war instead of the preparative side. Let nations fight if they will, and if they are determined to fight nothing will stop them ; but if they do fight, then render illegal their profits ; for even if they refuse to surrender them, as long as they hold them they will remain outlawed in the eyes of all other nations. To outlaw the victor is sense, because there can be no question who the victor is ; but to outlaw the aggressor is nonsense, for who is the aggressor ? To turn back to the main problem. In a European army there will be no national