rd the country in the event of a foreign war. As the cost of the first rises, for lack of money the cost of the second will sink ; yet, as I have said, both stand or fall together, because money in itself can solve neither problem.  252 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RE INFLUENCE UPON WORLD ORDER WAR AND CIVILIZATION I have at times drastically criticized the actions of statesmen and politicians, not because they were neces- sarily dishonest men, but because in their actions may be discovered the nature of the environment in which they were compelled to work. The environment is public opinion, which, as I have shown, has during the last hundred years increasingly influenced politics and through politics war. Between 1914 and 1918 public opinion was the controlling factor, not only in the belligerent countries but in neutral countries also. As the war lengthened out people became more and more credulous and savage, all reason being lost in a primitive animalism, a frantic hysterical striving to end the struggle by every means-fair, foul or damnable. To-day science is at the disposal of the masses. Not only has science introduced weapons which can strike at the civil will and so terrify it, but it has placed the radio in every house, a mechanical device which can literally electrify terror, hatred and fury. As the whole community will not only physically feel the effects of war, but will mentally live on the battlefields listening in to the thunder of the guns and possibly also to the shrieks of the wounded, since to popular emotionalism there are set no limits ; unless the people are highly disciplined or unless the war is short, hysteria will become uncontrollable and animalism rampant. A long war like the last one is likely to end in a catastrophic stroke, not national paralysis only, but also universal chaos. War between nations will almost certainly be followed by war within nations; that is, civil war, in which the sufferings of the people will in most cases be be