r military, but political. The Empire had set out to crush the national spirit of two small republics. It did so for a brief seven years, when, in 1909, the Union of South Africa was established ; but thereby the spirit of the republics passed into the body of the great Dominions. From 1903 onwards, having won their spurs of manhood in the war, the Dominions became all but nations in name, and the Empire became transformed into a Commonwealth. Simultaneously Mr. Joseph Chamberlain put forward his plan for tariff reform, partly to meet the expenditure on social reforms, and partly to establish a preferential system which would draw the Empire together by establishing an economic bond to replace the political one which had now broken. Though there were many in the country who desired Imperial unity, and more who desired social reforms, there were few who wanted to pay for either ; consequently his plan was wrecked on public opinion deprived of all reason by Press and poster. INFLUENCES OF THE WAR IN MANCHURIA As the war in South Africa unhinged the old British Empire, swinging it into a loose-jointed federation of States, so did the war in Manchuria unhinge the balance of power in Europe through the crippling of Russia, which in the event of another Franco-German conflict in the near future meant that France would be deprived of her support. At once General von Schlieffen, Chief of the German General Staff, amended the war plans, and decided that as Russia was now crippled he would settle 185 with France by moving through Belgium. In 1905 he completed his plan which remained substantially the same until 1913. Ever since the Russian occupation of Port Arthur, the French Government had been fearful that Russia might become embroiled in a war with Japan ; and as early as June 1898, when M. Delcassé was appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs, a more friendly feeling was shown towards England. During the South African War no advance could be made, but shortly after its end