egist the decisive theatre was obviously North Eastern France. 1915. THE YEAR OF POLITICAL BLUNDERS. The year 1915 constituted a period of political blunders originating from a faulty use of sea-power, not only on the part of the Entente but on that of the Central Powers as well. The tightening of the blockade was being seriously felt by Germany, and in spite of Dutch and American opposition to it, there appeared to be little likelihood of it being relented ; consequently, Germany determined, on February 18, to establish a submarine blockade of the British Isles. Her argument in support of this action was that if it were right for the Entente Powers  206 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET GRAND STRATEGY OF THE WAR to starve Germany into surrender, Germany was justified in using her submarines to starve Great Britain. There was, however, a serious flaw in this argument, due to German lack of psychological insight. It was not a question of what was logically right or wrong but of what was wise in the circumstances. Germany, by abandoning her offensive against France and turning upon Russia, had changed her military objective, and now, by proclaiming a submarine blockade of Great Britain, she began to change her political objective. Up to the present Great Britain had occasioned considerable neutral hostility on account of her persistent attempts to shake off the " Declaration of London." Now Germany not only risked doing likewise, but must inevitably embroil herself with every neutral country trading with the British Isles, for these were rapidly becoming the Allied war arsenal and, consequently, the focal point of neutral commerce. On the day following the declaration of this blockade a Norwegian ship was torpedoed without warning, then a Swedish vessel was sunk ; yet the Dutch still protested against the blockade policy of the Entente, until, on May 1, the inevitable happened : S.S. Gulflight, a U.S.A. merchantman, was torpedoed without warning. If this were not bad e