k." (4) This was an exaggeration, for most of them took their fine bulls away. Prussia, though girt about with tariff walls and fissured by economic entrenchments which disunited her, expanded, while Austria, under Metternich's " Govern and change nothing," wanting only the status quo, sank into petrification. In 1814 Prussia's population was 5,000,000, in 1815 it was 10,500,000. Truer than Blücher's words was it that the Congress resulted in nothing but restorations " which had already been effected by arms " (5) outside calling into being a Germanic Confederation of 38 sovereign Powers to fill the gap created by the dissolution of the old Empire in 1806. It was a Staatenbund and not a Bundesstaat, that is to say a federation of States and not a federated State, which prepared the ground for the events of 1866 and 1870. Russia gained Finland, Bessarabia and the greater part  VOICE NIGHT MUTING 20 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION FOUNDATIONS OF NATIONALISM of Poland which was incorporated as a separate kingdom under the dominion of the Czar, the rest of this country being divided between Prussia and Austria. Austria gained Dalmatia and retained her hold over Venetia and Lombardy ; Switzerland was given a constitution ; Sweden obtained Norway, and Holland was confirmed in the possession of Belgium, Luxemburg, Limburg and Liége. As her share of the spoils Great Britain received Malta, a declaration that the slave trade would cease, and Castlereagh, her representative, was about to insist on the Powers solemnly guaranteeing the territorial settlements by promising to make collective war on whoever should disturb them, when Napoleon escaped from Elba. Hurry and scurry, and nine days after the Final Act of the Congress was signed the liberator of modern Europe was defeated at Waterloo. Then followed the Second Treaty of Paris, signed on November 20, 1815, by which France was compelled to pay an indemnity of £40,000,000, and submit to occupation by 150,000 allied troops for a