om their shelves, to open them and to read within : " This war was avoided through the wisdom of our ancestors." That, studious reader, is a noble text. To be bound by tradition, to live in a groove and trickle down the gutter of life is to blaspheme against the Spirit of the Age, that spirit which we call " Progress " ; that intangible all-compelling force which drives the peoples on into the unknown of future history. To grasp the skirts of this spirit is to become wise and understanding ; but to grasp them demands courage and truthfulness. Let me say with modesty that these twin virtues have been my guiding stars. That this book should be without blemish is absurd to expect ; no man can examine the last hundred years without making mistakes. It is not accuracy which in itself is virtuous but the courage and the truthfulness expended in its seeking. This age, in my mind, is an age of spiritual decay, an age of saurian materialism. I stand before Magic, yet I 9 see little of God. There is an essential ugliness in it which must give way to beauty ; a yawning chasm of selfishness which must be filled up by right-mindedness. Praise I frequently withhold ; for praise is a mighty stimulant, and over much of it kills like strychnine. Democracies are founded upon praise, the praise of colos- sal numbers, gigantic size, immense genius, bullet-proof heroes, ecstatic heroines and all the glittering servitors of the magician's trade ; for it fascinates the herd to discover in others qualities it does not itself possess. Until these phantoms vanish, until this black magic is smitten low, all I see in the crystal of the future is this : the engine of Western civilization, speeding along the lines of narrow thoughts, roaring towards the Abyss. J. F. C. F. September 9, 1932.  VOICE NIGHT MUTING CONTENTS INTRODUCTION. THE FOUNDATIONS OF NATIONAL- Napoleon the Liberator-The Holy Alliance-Reaction and Revolution-The Conqueror of the Nineteenth Cen- tury-Influence of Democracy on War