d an aspect similar to that seen fifty years later in north-eastern France. Thus did the defensive grow in& strength. Colonel Lyman writes : " Put a man in a hole and a good battery on a hill behind him, and he will beat off three times his number, even if he is not a good soldier ; "(8) and Frank Wilkeson, a private soldier, says : " Before we left North Anna I discovered that our infantry were tired of charging earthworks. The ordin- ary enlisted men assert that one good man behind an earthwork was equal to three good men outside it." (7) Battles may be said to have been ultra modern in their character. Here is a graphic description by Colonel Lyman of a " 1914" battle fought in 1863 : " I had taken part in two great battles, and heard the bullets whistle both days, and yet I had scarcely seen a Rebel save killed, wounded or prisoner ! I remember how even line officers, who  96 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RETU FIRST OF MODERN WARS were at the battle of Chancellorsville said : ' Why, we never saw any Rebels where we were ; only smoke and bushes, and lots of our men tumbling about'; and now I appreciate this most fully. The great art is to conceal men ; for the moment they show, bang, bang, go a dozen cannon, the artillerists only too pleased to get a fair mark. Your typical ' great white plain,' with long lines advancing and manœuvring, led on by generals in cocked hats and by bands of music, exist not for us. Here it is, as I said : ' Left face-prime-forward !'-and then wrang wr-rang, for three or four hours, or for all day, and the poor bleeding wounded streaming to the rear. That is a great battle in America." (8) " A fire fight between attacking and defending infantry almost always ended in the success of the latter." (9) Colonel Henderson once asked a veteran of the war " whether men could be got to advance shoulder to shoulder," and the answer he received was : "No, God don't make men who could stand that." (10) Battles grew more and more prolonged, in truth