t produce a fearful effect, which for the most part it would be impossible to withstand." (24) Napoleon, though an artillery officer by training, learnt Frederick's lesson somewhat slowly. Even as late as the battles of Eylau (1807), Friedland (1807) and Aspern (1809) his infantry dashed themselves to pieces against the enemy guns. After Aspern he massed his  32 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RETO FOUNDATIONS OF NATIONALISM artillery on the point to be attacked, and at Wagram (1809) and Borodino (1812) he blew great holes through the enemy's lines and columns. " In every case where the services of the artillery, owing to the want of this weapon, failed, Napoleon was obliged to have recourse to a series of successive efforts, which cost him infinite forces and time." (35) At Waterloo (1815) the want of howitzers, or their misuse, resulted in his inability to dislodge Wellington from his covered position, and cost him the battle. Frederick in his place would probably have routed the " Iron Duke" in a couple of hours. In spite of his misuse of howitzers Napoleon was a very great gunner, and this will be realised from the following quotations : " He who can rapidly bring on to the field a mass of artillery at the crisis of the battle and at a decisive point is certain to carry it." The reason for this is that the artillery fight depends for success on the simultaneous employment of force, whilst the infantry fight depends on successive employment. A serried line of infantry cannot attack skirmishers, and, as it advances, suffers great loss from their fire, consequently it is exhausted by the time it approaches the enemy's serried line ; whilst artillery can keep out of range of musket fire and still carry out its attack by bombardment. Further, Napoleon said : " The better the infantry, the more one must husband it and support it with good batteries."(26). . . . "Missile weapons are now become the principal ones : it is by fire and not by shock that battles are decided to