to reconnoitre, engaged fractions of his corps, 24,000 strong, against 8,000 French, and was severely beaten. Gyulai then fell back towards the Quadrilateral. Louis Napoleon followed him up and a battle took place at Magenta, some fifteen miles west of Milan, where, on June 4, 54,000 allied troops defeated 58,000 Austrians, the French losing 4,000 killed and wounded and the Austrians 5,700 besides 4,500 prisoners. Four days later the French Emperor and Victor Emmanuel entered Milan. On the same day the First 8 I and Second French Corps, under Marshal Baraguay d'Hilliers, attacked the Austrian rearguard at Melegnano, a typical action of this period. The attack was a direct frontal " à la baïonnette " affair and without prepara- tion, as simple and as crude as that of the Swiss carried out on the same field, at the Battle of Marignan, in 1515. After this battle contact with the Austrians was lost ; war clouds were gathering in the north, for Germany was afraid that the conquest of Italy would be followed by the conquest of the Rhine. The Austrians meanwhile disappeared into the Quadrilateral ; then, on July 23, they turned about, recrossed the Mincio, and the next day ran into the greater part of the French army at Solferino where a purely encounter battle took place in which the Austrians were defeated losing 22,500 men to the Allies' 17,200. The effects of this battle were profound. It awoke Italy, and, in awakening her, it awoke Napoleon from his dream of an Italian Confederation under Papal control. He therefore called a halt, and interviewed the Emperor Francis Joseph at Villafranca, where, on July II, treaty of peace was signed. Austria though willing to give up Lombardy refused to part with Venetia. In March, 1860, Tuscany, Parma, Modena and the Romagna were united under Piedmont, Savoy and Nice being handed over to France. Thus was Italy, with the exception of Venice and Rome, united under Victor Emmanuel. PROGRESS IN THE ART OF WAR This war is noted as the fi