rk of his numerous subordinates. Whilst on one of his inspections he met a gentleman in the passage and asked him what hour he usually came to his duty. "' Oh !' said the gentleman in reply, 'I usually stroll in about eleven or twelve o'clock.' ' Stroll in ? ' said the minister, in surprise ; 'then I presume you do not leave until a late hour ?' 'Well,' replied the gentleman, ' I generally slip off about three o'clock.' 'Slip off at three ? ' said the minister, much scandalized. ' Pray, sir, may I ask what department you belong to ?' ' Certainly,' said the young man ; 'I come every Saturday to wind up the clocks !' " (22) RETO CHAPTER V THE RISE OF PRUSSIA, 1861-1869 The Foundations of German Unity. The Seven Weeks' War. Lessons of the Seven Weeks' War. Decay of the British Army. The Prussian and French Armies. THE FOUNDATIONS OF GERMAN UNITY WHILE the conflict in America was being fought out to its bitter end crucial changes were taking place in Europe. On June 24, 1859, the guns of Solferino had awakened Prussia to the reality which now faced her-the hegemony of France and the possible loss of the Rhineland Provinces ; just as John Brown's raid on Harper's Ferry, on October 16 this same year, had roused the North and the South of the United States to an equally great reality. Still one more date must be mentioned in this memorable year : On November 24 appeared Charles Darwin's master work On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life. Its doctrines and speculations fitted the times as a glove fits the hand ; so that consciously and unconsciously it was to be the oracle of contending nations, and its main idea was to be adopted as the leading doctrine of a prince, mystic, actor and egotist, then but eleven months old, by name Frederick Wilhelm Victor Albert, who in 1888 became William II Emperor of Germany. In 1858 Frederick William IV of Prussia was becoming totally insane, and Prince Willia