hostilities, and the British and French armies had lost between them over a million men. These are, I think, the true reasons, for fear is both the parent and offspring of failure. If 1915 was a year of diplomatic blunders, 1917 was indeed, on the part of France and Great Britain, a year of military mistakes. Yet all this blundering can be traced to one definite cause, the lack of a thinking head. As the failure of the spring offensive produced Foch, so did the failure of the autumn offensive produce some semblance of unity. On November 7 an Ållied Confer- ence was held at Rapallo and a Supreme War Council was agreed upon. On November 27 this Council was appointed, and its four members were : General Sir Henry Wilson, General Foch, General Cadorna and General Bliss. As we shall see, another disaster was necessary before unity was attained. 1918. THE YEAR OF DECISION We now come to the most interesting year of the war- 1918. In August 1914, all the great belligerent Powers thought they had made up their minds ; before the year was out they tried to make up their minds ; in 1915 they changed their minds before they had made them up ; in 1916 they worked on these suppositional changes ; in 1917 they nearly suffocated themselves in the appalling tangle of substance and shadows, and then, ultimately, in 1918 a decision was arrived at which was undreamt of by all.  218 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET GRAND STRATEGY OF THE WAR Once Russia had turned from her foreign war to fight her domestic enemies, real and imaginary, Germany was left with the solution of a problem which was totally different from the one which confronted her at the end of September 1914. Then, she had two problems : the first, military-the defeat of the Entente Powers ; the second, political-the maintenance of world opinion on her side. Now that she had smashed Russia she was left facing not only the Western Front but also the Italian. Macedonian and Mesopotamian fronts ; and behind all these fronts st