n came the armistice, and instead of showing a bold, proud and united front the canaille of Paris once again took charge. Women were stripped naked " who had dared to smile upon the Teuton satyrs,"-the German colours being painted on their flesh. A café was sacked " where a few German officers took supper," and " extensive use made of Condy's disinfecting fluid and chloride of lime in the Palais de l'Industrie, the theatres on the Champs Elysées, and other public buildings occupied by the Germans." (21) This puerile vengeance took place immediately after the Germans had marched out of Paris on March 3- having entered it on the Ist. Then, on the 18th, the Commune was proclaimed. The Tuileries and the Hôtel de Ville were burnt, the archbishop of Paris assassinated, and fire and sword carried through the city. Once again was Paris laid under siege, and the victorious Germans, encamped on the heights overlooking the city, watched Frenchmen wage war upon Frenchmen, 30,000 men, women and children perishing in this fratricidal conflict. With such a contemptible spectacle before their eyes, it is a wonder that the peace treaty signed at Frank- fort on May 5, 1871, and ratified by the National Assembly on May 18 was not severer than it was. Its terms were : (1) The payment of an indemnity of £200,000,000. (2) The right of Germany to be treated by France as the most favoured nation. (3) The annexation of Alsace and eastern Lorraine.  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 128 Alsace was predominantly German, and had become part of France in 1697 ; Lorraine was predominantly French, but was not definitely incorporated in the Kingdom of France until 1766. The motive for their annexation was to block the French entrance into southern Germany. Immediately after the fall of Napoleon III in September, 1870, the historian Leopold von Ranke had said to Thiers, "' It is against Louis XIV that we have now to wage war ' ; that is to say, we have now to fight against the country which has for cent