eets and alley-ways of such great cities as London, Paris and Washington the cries of a war fought " to make the world safe for democracy," and of a war fought " to make the world fit for heroes to live in," those who could see (and there were few) saw that we were faced by two forms of war, that of the nineteenth and that of the eighteenth century. Both may be absurd ; yet let it be remembered that democracy has little or nothing to do with heroism. To make the world safe for democracy is to turn it into a charnel house, and this, as I will show, the wars of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries succeeded in doing. In the eighteenth century wars were largely the occupa- tion of kings, courtiers and gentlemen. Armies lived on their depots, they interfered as little as possible with the people, and as soldiers were paid out of the king's privy purse they were too costly to be thrown away lightly on 27 massed attacks. The change came about with the French Revolution, sans culottism replaced courtiership, and as armies became more and more the instruments of the people, not only did they grow in size but in ferocity. National armies fight nations, royal armies fight their like, the first obey a mob-always demented, the second a king-generally sane. " The day of Cabinet wars is over. It is no longer the weak- ness of a single man, at the head of affairs, or of a dominant party, that is decisive, but only the exhaustion of the belligerent nations. ... Wars have become solely the concern of the nations engaged. . . . A clashing of interests leads to war, but the passion of the nations decide, independently of these, up to what point the war shall be carried. . . . National egotism is inseparable from our ideas of national greatness. This egotism will always appeal to arms when other means fail. . . . The mutual mistrust between nations even makes all proposals of disarmament exceedingly suspicious." (14) So writes General von der Goltz, and very similarly writes Mr. Full