: " It is part of my system to weaken Prussia ; I mean that she shall no longer be a power in the political balance of Europe." (3) This was the object of the French-inspired peace treaty of 1919. Germany was not only to be disarmed, cut about and economically ruined by reparations running into astro- nomical figures, but she was to be circled round by a number of new and hostile nations, who, fearing her possible resurrection, were compelled to prepare for war. As modern war depends for its sustenance on home  246 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RE INFLUENCE UPON WORLD ORDER industries, these had to be fostered ; hence the ceaseless rise and strengthening of tariff walls, the strangulation of international trade, fall in prices and financial chaos. The fashioners of the Treaty of Versailles and the other peace treaties, all bearing French names, looked upon war as an incident and not as a consequence. They could not see that its origins were mainly economic and that unless economic laws were observed all that these treaties could do was to invert Clausewitz's famous saying that " war is a continuation of peace policy "; that is to reconstruct Europe on the assumption that " peace is the continuation of war policy." During the war, very naturally and logically, each nation attempted to strangle its enemy's trade. Great Britain blockaded Germany, Germany blockaded Great Britain, and now that the war was at an end Germany was to be blockaded by reparations for an indefinite number of years, if not for ever. To make all the payments demanded of her under the Young Plan of 1929, which drastically modified the original figure, Germany would have had to increase her export trade by fifty per cent. ! This was the only possible way she could pay ; for unlike the alchemists she was unable to transmute lead into gold. The inmates of a lunatic asylum could have foreseen that this was the only answer, and as the statesmen of the Allied Powers were not altogether insane, why did no