acking him in the field. "Thus, in the World War, the matériel attack having failed, it at once gave way to plundering operations-attacks on trade in place of the devastation of crops. To introduce this most barbarous form of war, the first military problem that the Allied Powers had to solve was the circumvallation of the Central Powers ; and the second-their surrender by starvation : That is an attack on the enemy's civil stomach, not only on his men but on his women and children, not only on his soldiers but on his sick and his poor. The economic attack is without question the most brutal of all forms of attack, because it does not only kill but cripple, and cripples more than one generation. Turning men, women and children into starving animals, it is a direct blow against what is called civilization. The encirclement of the Central Powers resulted in the 231 most gigantic siege in history, the lines of circumvalla- tion running from Calais to Kermanshah, and thence through Russia to the Baltic. The establishment of this immense circle of rifles and guns and entrenchments took time ; but what took longer still for the British Govern- ment to realize was, that this siege would prove futile unless the supplies then transported to Germany through neutral countries could be stopped. The problem was in fact a politico-naval one, and the politician was slow in solving it, not because it was diabolical, but because it might prove detrimental to the pockets of neutrals who, like vampires, were feasting on the blood of the battlefields. When, however, the blockade began to tighten, Ger- many, as we have seen, had no intention of committing felo- de-se in order to maintain a naval custom or a humanitarian tradition. She was now fighting for her life ; and, not possessing strength enough to defeat her adversaries on the high seas, she decided to break the blockade by establish- ing a blockade of her own by means of her submarines. This decision was met by a howl of execrat