the imagination of the higher command, who became obsessed by two ideas : Fill the trenches to hold them, and blow them to pieces to capture them. . . . As the brain-power of the opposing armies grew smaller, for all General Staffs fell victims to the shell-plague, the bodies of these same armies grew bigger and bigger, until the administrative organization for the supply of matériel alone absorbed such vast numbers of men that, through shortage of man-power, the fighting troops were nearly strangled by those whose duty it was to administer to their needs-armies had now become pot-bellied and pea- brained." (3)  230 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET CHANGING NATURE OF WAR ECONOMIC WARFARE The attack by matériel failed ignominiously. In the circumstances it could not succeed, because entrench- ments could be dug more rapidly than guns could be built, and the defensive zones became so widened out that it was impossible to penetrate them during a single battle. The enormous demands made for all types of munitions of war, however, revealed clearly to the eyes of the General Staffs the economic foundations of the war. So visible did these economic foundations become that it was not long before these Staffs realized that if the food supply of the enemy could be cut off, the foundations of the hostile nation would be undermined and, with the loss of will to endure, its military forces would be paralysed. Throughout history warfare may be divided under the two general headings of fighting and plundering. In the Middle Ages, when the attack on castles failed armies laid waste the lands of the peasants. In the Thirty Years' War it was much the same, armies learning that to attack the economic foundations of their enemy's military strength is frequently more profitable than han attacking him in the field. "Thus, in the World War, the matériel attack having failed, it at once gave way to plundering operations-attacks on trade in place of the devastation of crops. To introduce th