terloo. Then followed the Second Treaty of Paris, signed on November 20, 1815, by which France was compelled to pay an indemnity of £40,000,000, and submit to occupation by 150,000 allied troops for a period of not more than five years. At the time German statesmen were furious, they demanded that France should be disarmed and that Alsace and Lorraine should be annexed. Wellington objected and carried the day. France was already hemmed in by a circle of newly constituted Powers, and he was wise, as Fyffe says, " in leaving to France the whole of its territory of 1815," and so avoiding the infliction of " the most galling of all tokens of defeat upon a spirited and still most powerful nation." (6) THE HOLY ALLIANCE The Congress of Vienna and the two Treaties of Paris were largely the work of reactionaries, and consequently reaction was immediate. The first act of Louis XVIII on his restoration, in 1814, was to abolish the tricolour and substitute for it the white flag of the Bourbons. Military ceremonials replaced military exercises, the details of which were culled from old almanacks, court-tailors' 21 records and the " memories of decayed gallants." At once the Church under cover of royalty crept back into power. In Spain the clergy demanded the restoration of the Inquisition, and Ferdinand restored it in July, 1814; in France the Church called for the abolition of divorce, and divorce was abolished in 1816. In Austria the Emperor Francis was set on neither going backwards nor forwards ; he was the " personification of resistance to progress," whilst his Minister-Prince Metternich- considered that the unification of Germany was an " infamous object." In England both Whig and Tory, oblivious of the onrush of the industrial revolution and " convinced that the country gentlemen were the proper and legitimate rulers of England,"(7) demanded protec- tion for their agricultural interests and close trade within the Empire, forgetting that such trading had been the underly