net, a folly which exceeds that of the knights of France at least ten-fold. After all they were clothed in armour though their horses were vulnerable to arrows, and after all they had only to meet bowmen and not riflemen and machine gunners. So it happens that when we ponder over these things we begin to realize that warfare is closely related to lunacy. Not only do most wars find their outbursts in pretexts which are quite irrational, but those who wage them-the professional soldiers-being never less than a generation out of date, and frequently several, are no better mentally equipped to deal with them than was Frederick's famous mule. Frederick the Great, who was not a professional, that is a traditional, soldier, for he broke every canon of the professional and traditional art, once said to a gathering of generals : " The great mistake in inspections is that you officers amuse yourselves with God knows what buffooneries and never dream in the least of serious service. This is a source of stupidity which would 149 become most dangerous in case of a serious conflict. Take shoemakers and tailors and make generals of them, and they will not commit worse follies." (1) This is why the French Revolutionary Wars, the Napoleonic Wars and the American Civil War produced such a galaxy of leaders. Many were shoemakers and tailors, and very few were regular soldiers. After 1870 military organization became more and more professional and completely democratized. After this date no great generals appear, just as no great statesmen appear. In France, as elsewhere, conscription is vastly unpopular ; and when a subject, or a duty, is distasteful its progress is unenthusiastic. Yet this actual age demanded military enthusiasm as much if not more than any past one. Changes were taking place in civil life which must influence war : new inventions were appearing and new weapons were being produced. In 1890-91 the magazine rifle was issued to the German army with a bullet propelled by