de engendered such a stupendous energy that the whole world was magnetized by Europe. From this date, the history of Europe becomes the history of the world, a prestige being established which stands unrivalled since the days of Alexander the Great. As Europe expanded, swallowing Africa, the Pacific Islands, and thrusting her tentacles over eastern, western and southern Asia, an inward recoil set in. Between 1815 and 1848 two revolutionary waves had swept over her many peoples, the clash between demo- cratic freedom begotten by the French Revolution and aristocratic autocracy as represented by the Metternich school. Except in Eastern Europe, in Russia and the Balkans, these two opposing ideals, though they had not fully accomplished their work, had, by 1871, spent their force. Thence onwards two new revolutionary waves were destined in the greater part to replace them- I3I RETU  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 132 RET ECONOMIC CONFLICT Capitalism and Socialism ; both begotten by the indus- trial revolution. The one assuming the old autocratic form of pre-French revolutionary days, and the other assimilating the spirit of this revolution in an economic in place of a political form. The first was the product of James Watt and Metternich, and the second the product of James Watt and Jean Jacques Rousseau. In this chapter it is my intention to trace the crooked path of these changing years, years during which were laid, not with foresight but in a haphazard manner, the foundations of the world in which we live. THE CONTROLLING FACTOR-ECONOMICS Until the year 1870 the monopoly of world trade was in the hands of Great Britain. No other nation even challenged her commercial supremacy ; consequently her international politics were not based on armed force but on diplomacy, the aim of which was so to balance power in Europe that no nation would be strong enough to exert armed force against her. Militarily threatening none, economically she absorbed all. Then, in 1871, this bala