as mere vapouring, and was never intended to be taken seriously. It was the bayonet which was ' to do the trick.' " (11) Again L  178 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET LAST OF WARS OF EXPANSION we read : "The Russian authorities acted as if troops were mere machines, and frankly said that no number of defeats would ever discourage their men "-indeed a comforting doctrine ! The result was mass attacks and massacre, a good example being the Russian attacks at the battle of the Shaho, where 8,000 dead were left upon the ground, the Japanese Second Army losing only 1,014 in killed. Though the Japanese frequently made use of frontal attacks, especially in the Port Arthur battles where the area was generally too narrow for outflanking movements, they realized that their main object was to hold and not to break through the enemy, and this is most notice- able during the battle of Liao-yang. They put their trust in envelopment and won their battles by out- flanking. In the attack they first carefully reconnoitred the ground, then advanced to within about 800 yards' distance without firing, and either assaulted under cover of artillery fire which was maintained to the very last, or else dug themselves in, assaulted at night, or advanced under cover of night and continued the attack the next morning. At Mukden, where the ground was open and flat, the heaviest casualties occurred at about 400 to 500 yards' range. " Within 300 yards of the enemy," said a Japanese captain, " our losses are comparatively small." It must always be remembered, however, that the Russians were the most indifferent shots. This fact misled many of the foreign officers attached to the Japanese, who saw in this lessening of casualties a possi- bility of pushing in with the bayonet. They however overlooked the true reason for it, which was superiority of artillery fire. Major J. M. Home, a British officer attached to the Japanese Army, was one of the first to realize this. He says : " The denser the format