on the pedestal of his gigantic conceit. As regards the grand-strategy of the war the problem was complexity itself ; for since neither side was in any way prepared for the conflict both had to start from the beginning. Further : both had to consider the possibility of European intervention ; and at the time Napoleon III, believing that the rising power of the United States was a direct menace to French trade, took the opportunity the war offered him to land an army in Mexico under Marshal Bazaine in order to support his protégé, Maxi- milian, who was crowned Emperor of Mexico in 1863. On both sides the political object of the war was clear. The aim of the South was to regain recognition as an independent nation, or rather as a fraternity of States ; that of the North was to prevent this by compelling the South to re-enter the Union, and either abandon slavery or accept compensation instead. To defeat the North was scarcely possible ; consequently the only courses open to the South were either to tire the North out or to induce Europe to intervene and stop the war. Jefferson Davis had, however, no settled policy outside a rigid defensive broken by useless attacks, for which General Lee was mainly responsible. Davis believed that " cotton was king," and that lack of cotton would force European nations to intervene. Except for the question of slavery, the grand- strategical problems which faced the Union Government were very similar to those which confronted the Allied Governments in 1914. The grand tactical idea of the North was to lay the entire Confederacy under siege, and slowly strangle it to death. Four grand-strategical problems faced Lincoln : The blockade of the Con- federacy, the coast line of which stretched from Chesa- peake Bay to the Mexican frontier, a distance of 3,500 miles ; the recruiting of the army and navy which was tackled with amazing success, seeing that nearly 3,000,000 men were enrolled and the navy increased from 40 steamships and 7,600 off