f the British fleet over the German had a detrimental influence on all neutral countries outside Europe, for now the conflagration appeared to be localized to Europe. The possibility of 203 Germany winning the war was recognized ; but the probability that if she did so it would be but a stepping- stone to another war, mainly a naval one, was too remote to worry public opinion in America. Then, seven days later, the second great political event took place, an event more unlooked for by the Entente than had been the entry of England into the war by Germany. On August II, the Goeben and the Breslau steamed up the Dardanelles, and potentially the war was extended to Asia. I cannot say how far this most decisive and far- reaching naval operation of the entire war influenced neutral opinion at the time, but British public opinion actually looked upon it as a minor Entente victory ! Within nine days of this event, the French plan of war having been completely wrecked by the German surprise attack through Belgium, the third great political event took place. On August 20, the day Brussels was occupied by German troops, the first British Order in Council revising the " Declaration of London " (1) was issued, and economically the influence of the war was felt throughout the whole of the civilized world. On September 10, the Germans were defeated at the battle of the Marne. To the Entente this was a victory of strategical importance, but to Germany it was a political débâcle. Her violation of Belgium had shocked Europe, and slightly agitated America. She had recognized its dangers, but had been so sure of effecting a second Cannae within six weeks of the opening of hostilities that she had risked it. In place of Cannae she had met her Marathon, and the world then saw that her army, like the Persian, possessed feet of clay. This defeat on the Marne coupled with the Austrian defeats in Galicia, was slightly mitigated by her superb tactical victories at Tannenberg (August 31), and