s inscribed " Le Roi Gouverne Par Lui-même," on the initiative of the King of Bavaria, the traditional ally of France, William I of Prussia was proclaimed Emperor of Germany. In July the year before France had gone to war to undo the work of partial union effected in 1866. Napoleon III had planned to march into Bavaria ; now its King put the coping stone on the work of the union. Further still, Russia, enchained by the Treaty of Paris, had burst her bonds by denouncing the clauses which forbade her maintaining war ships on the Black Sea. This had taken place on October 31, 1870 ; and on March 13, 1871, by the Convention of London this action was recognized by the Powers because they could not prevent it. The recall of the French garrison in Rome, which took place during the war, left the Eternal City unprotected, and directly the last French soldier had sailed from Civita Vecchia Victor Emmanuel marched on his future capital where the Papal mercen- aries " laid down their arms at the breach of Porta Pia. Thus was the task of national union, to which three and a half centuries earlier Machiavelli had urged the princes of Italy, accomplished." (19) 127 If this complete overthrow of French policy were not bad enough-and it must be remembered that democracy had played a foremost part in its elaboration and the leading part in its disruption-the Parisian mob having ruined strategy now did its utmost to ruin peace. During the war the Germans had on the whole treated the French civilian population well. Archibald Forbes, an eye- witness, says : " The people . . . liked the Prussian way of doing business best. The hotel-keepers remarked that they got their bills paid as if the generals were tourists, whereas the French gave promises to pay when the war should be over." (20) Then came the armistice, and instead of showing a bold, proud and united front the canaille of Paris once again took charge. Women were stripped naked " who had dared to smile upon the Teuton satyrs,"-th