ckness consistent with order by the example of the dashing Zouave . . . and by the natural intelligence of the French recruit ; "(23) and Moltke says : " The French distinguished themselves by tactical skill, good use of ground, and above all by a vigorous offen- sive," (24) which, in the circumstances, was undoubtedly correct, seeing that the Austrians were utterly lacking in energy and initiative. While the French, since the close of the Napoleonic wars, had occupied themselves little with the science of tactics, and had cultivated a high sense of leadership in Algeria, the Austrians fought their battles in accordance >with the rules of the methodical fight as recommended in German military literature. According to this school of thought the firing line was to be gradually nourished until the decision arose and an assault could be made. " But," as one critic truly says, " this moment never arrives, because the ' nourishing' the fight causes new 83 brigades to be brought up from the reserves, and the latter consequently dwindled so, that in spite of all the original superiority, nothing remained at the end to deliver the decisive blow with." (25) This writer further adds that the French tactics " were neither entangled in theories, nor were they cleared up by definite maxims ; it was simply the natural emanation of their military skill which had been greatly increased by experience."(26) In short, the soldier will fight better left to himself than when trained under obsolete dogmas. Out-of-date theories have consistently proved the ruin of armies.  RETU FIRST OF MODERN WARS CHAPTER IV THE FIRST OF THE MODERN WARS, 1861-1865 The Origins and Nature of the American Civil War. The Grand-Strategy of the War. The Strategy of the War. The Tactics of the War. Military Inventions. Influences of the War on European Armies. THE ORIGINS AND NATURE OF THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR. BARELY had the thunder of the guns died down at Solferino than the war clouds gathered in the West ; and