ere may be compared to the Russian revolution. But in 1919, though both these super-States were founded upon economics, the difference between them lay in their economic machinery. Whilst in the Soviet Union all sources of wealth became State property, in the United States they remained individual property depending upon an intricate banking system. The difference between them was that of S.U. to U.S. In spite of this fact, S.U. and U.S. were but the heads RE FOUNDATIONS OF INTERNATIONALISM and tails of one and the same coin, for both were in spirit international and not merely federal organizations. 261 The Russian aiming at a world revolution which would bring the wealth of the world into the hands of a world super-State, and the American aiming at a world control which similarly would bring the wealth of the world under the government of the central banks dictated to by the international financiers. Both, in their eagerness to gain power over the masses which could no longer control themselves or devise political machinery to control them, sacrificed not only their liberty to autocracy but justice to method. Economically the world was fast becoming a single machine, consequently it was thought, or unconsciously felt, that this machine must be controlled by a single government. This ideal may or may not be sound ; it is as yet impos- sible to say ; but human customs change slowly, and the eagerness of the few, pushed as it was to its uttermost extreme both in Russia and America, soon established such stresses and strains in the old economic and financial world structure that the foundations of Western civiliza- tion gave way, bringing the mansion of nationalism tumbling to the ground. In Russia a New Economic Policy had to be resorted to, and then the gigantic Five Year Plan of reconstruction. In America no radical change has as yet been attempted. Meanwhile the world- dominion idea has grown very thin ; the Russian ideal being now limited to the hegemony of Asia,