This great popular movement for an educational test for the army is uncalled for, delusive and mischievous. . . . At the public school will be found one set of boys who apply to their studies, and make the greater progress in them ; another set take to cricket, boating, fives, swimming, etc. Now, of the two, I should prefer the latter, as much more likely to make good officers ; but they are to be absolutely rejected, and for ever, unless they can come up to the mark in other matters, which are of no absolute use to them in their profession. . . . To extend these examinations to the higher ranks, even to that of captain, as the principal test of promotion, would be to keep men in school-boy trammels up to the age of between 30 and 40. It would be intolerable, and would destroy emulation in the real qualities for a good officer and soldier." (1) I quote this not only to show the outlook of an eminent soldier at the date of the Crimean War but because a similar outlook has largely controlled promotion in the British Army until to-day. In 1930 I knew of a Major- General, aged 53, being adversely reported on for not playing field games. However, in spite of Sir John Burgoyne and others, in 1853 the first field exercises since Waterloo were held at Chobham and in the following year 10,000 acres of training ground were bought in the Aldershot area. It was time that officers should be brought to realize that war was a serious undertaking. General Sir John Adye tells us that on his way out to the Crimea the ship he was in passed, near the entrance of the Dar- danelles, a transport carrying British cavalry. " The officers in the transport," he writes, " made signs of their wish to communicate, so we lowered a bottle tied to a long string, which they picked up as it floated past, and we then pulled it back. We expected their inquiries  68 WAR PERIOD OPENS WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 69 might be as to the position of the Russians and the progress of the war, but their message