m 1806 onwards to the gathering of the nations, first at Leipzig and lastly at Waterloo, following the giddy path of his spiritual ancestor, Alexander of Macedon, he sought to establish a World Empire, and through the oppression resulting he drove the meaning of " Liberty " from the B 17  VOICE NIGHT MUTING 18 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION FOUNDATIONS OF NATIONALISM heads of the philosophers into the hearts of the people, and it intoxicated them. This is the pivotal fact of the nineteenth century. In 1805, at Austerlitz, Austria was trampled under foot ; in 1806, at Jena, Prussia was trampled under foot, the wraith of the Holy Roman Empire vanishing to be replaced by the amorphous Confederation of the Rhine. In 1807, Spain was overrun ; but the following year the tide began to turn ; General Dupont and 17,000 French soldiers surrendered to the Spaniards at Baylen. At this small city where, in 1212, Alphonso VIII slew two- hundred thousand Moors with a loss of twenty-five men, Napoleon's star reached the limits of its ascendency ; henceforth it was destined to sink, for the spirit of Spanish nationality was aroused. It swept over Austria, once again to be pulverized at Wagram in 1809. It swept into Italy, into Prussia, and Germany awoke to the cry of " Mit Gott für König und Vaterland." Onwards it sped over the steppes and swamps of Russia to the smouldering gates of Moscow. Then it swept back, roaring into life at Leipzig where, on October 18, 1813, the Battle of the Nations raged around the Johanniskirche and in its surgings shook off the yoke of despotism. There modern Europe was born a congeries of emerging nations which through agony bad trans- muted the ecstatic cosmopolitanism of the Revolution into the self-consciousness of individual peoples-a strange transmutation, and one little dreamt of by Marat, by Danton, by Robespierre. Then came the first Treaty of Paris to bless and curse an exhausted continent ; so thoughts slipped back to 1792. Next, the Congress o