cond half of the eighteenth century machines began to make machines. And this is the true birth of the industrial revolution. In 1769, the year Napoleon was born and Wellington his conqueror, James Watt produced the first practical steam-engine ; and in the year Napoleon was finally defeated, namely 1815, the first steamer made the passage from London to Glasgow ; and three years later the Rising Star, built under the direction of the Earl of Dundonald and his brother, was the first steam vessel to cross the Atlantic. (13) Nor was land transport behindhand ; in 1769, Cugnot, in France, invented a rudimentary steam carriage, and,  26 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RETO FOUNDATIONS OF NATIONALISM in 1802, Trevethick produced a more serviceable one in England. Napoleon considered their military use ; meanwhile came Trevethick's first locomotive in 1801, and, in 1825, the first true railway was constructed by George Stephenson between Stockton and Darlington. Here were forces Cyclopean, as yet one-eyed, which were about to change the face of the world, and, in the changing of it, raise war from the cockpit of gladiatorial armies to the grand amphitheatre of contending nations. INFLUENCE OF DEMOCRACY ON WAR The influence of the spirit of nationality, that is of democracy, on war was profound, as also were the influ- ences of science and industrial development. The first emotionalized war and, consequently, brutalized it ; and the second delivered into the hands of the masses more and more deadly means of destruction. Walt Whitman has written, " I utter the word demo- cratic, I utter the word en masse." He is right. And have not Maurras, Leon Daudet and Bainville called democracy l'anthropophage-the eater of men ? When, a few years ago, we heard echoing through the avenues, streets and alley-ways of such great cities as London, Paris and Washington the cries of a war fought " to make the world safe for democracy," and of a war fought " to make the world fit for heroes to li