e infantry, the more one must husband it and support it with good batteries."(26). . . . "Missile weapons are now become the principal ones : it is by fire and not by shock that battles are decided to-day " (27) . "The power of the infantry lies in its fire. In seige warfare, as in the open field, it is the gun which plays the chief part ; it has effected a complete revolution . it is with artillery that war is made." (28) TACTICAL REACTION AND DECAY. Once Napoleon was safely ensconced in St. Helena, military reaction was as complete as political reaction. 33 In 1831 a new French Field Regulations was issued and it follows the lines of the Regulations of 1791, and those of 1862 were on the same lines as those of 1831. (29) Some French authorities preferred the line to the column. Napoleon had laid down a general order of two lines without counting skirmishers. Marshal Bugeaud, of Algerian fame, agreed, because the line " allows infan- try to make use of its fire, which is its main strength." (30) Jomini, however, disagreed, and supported battalion columns and lines of three ranks, for, as he said : " What European army (except the English) could be trusted in line only two deep.' (31) The third rank was for the bayonet charge, or to resist calvary. Napoleon considered it of no value, (32) yet it was retained in the French army until 1859, " and even then old soldiers shook their heads at its abandonment." (33) In the Prussian service the reaction was towards close- order drill. The three ranks were retained, but the third rank was used as skirmishers. In 1847 a new drill book was issued, battalion columns gave way to company columns, and the third rank was replaced by whole companies of skirmishers. In England reaction was still more pronounced ; there was a general cry for retrenchment, but none for military reform. In 1815, when the United Service Club was constituted, it was " held up to Parliament as a national danger, likely to foster the military spirit and th