The strategical chaos, established during 1915, was straightened out a little during the following year, and though the main idea of both the Entente and the Central Powers still remained the economic attack on each other's resources, extensive field operations took place. The Allied campaign of September 1915, which had shown some idea of strategical co-operation, came as a shock to the German Supreme Command. The opera- tions in Russia were progressing slowly, too slow to warrant their completion before another Allied offensive took place in the West. Germany determined, there- fore, to pause in Russia and to hit at France before Great Britain was ready to co-operate in the attack, and, simultaneously, strike at England by a renewal of the submarine campaign. The first step in this tem- porary change of policy was the Battle of Verdun which opened on February 21, and dragged on to August 31, costing Germany about 500,000 casualties. An extended submarine campaign was opened on March I, and was followed by expostulations on the part of America. Its economic effect was startling, and at first it looked as if Germany had at last discovered the weapon which would enable her, if not to win the war, at least to induce the Entente Powers to consider terms of peace. Though the attack on Verdun had upset the French and British spring offensives, a combined operation was decided on between Russia, France and Great Britain. This opened with Brusilov's attack, on June 4, which came as welcome news to England after her naval N  210 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET GRAND STRATEGY OF THE WAR fiasco at Jutland. Brusilov's offensive lasted until August 17, and during these eleven weeks his losses amounted to nearly a million men ; the Russian Army was in fact bled white. Meanwhile, France and Great Britain followed in his footsteps. The Battle of the Somme opened on July I and dragged on to November 18, by which time the British casualties alone amounted to 475,000. In the Balkans