the industrial one, he realized that the instrument-war itself-must change with them. He says : " What is the use of talking about the past when you are dealing with an altogether new set of considerations ? Consider for one moment what nations were a hundred years ago and what they are to-day. In those days before railways, telegraphs, steamships, etc., K  162 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET MYTHS AND REALITIES were invented each nation was more or less a homogeneous, self-contained, self-sufficing unit. .. . All this is changed. . . . Every year the interdependence of nations upon each other for the necessaries of life is greater than it ever was before. . . . Hence the first thing that war would do would be to deprive the Powers that made it of all opportunity of benefitting by the products of the nations against whom they were fighting." And again : " The soldier is going down and the economist is going up. There is no doubt of it. Humanity has progressed beyond the stage in which war can any longer be regarded as a possible [? profitable] Court of Appeal." Consequently war between the great industrial Powers is nothing more than mutual suicide. The old conception of war as a business is therefore absurd ; to-day is it a mad kind of burglary- the plundering of one's own house. Turning to modern weapons, which are the military expression of an industrial civilization, he says : "The outward and visible sign of the end of war was the the introduction of the magazine rifle. . . . The soldier by natural evolution has so perfected the mechanism of slaughter that he has practically secured his own extinction." Not through the deadliness of this mech- anism but through man's fear of it, a fear which will pre- vent him closing with danger and so overcoming danger. Thus he pictures the future battle : "The distance is 6,000 metres from the enemy. The artillery is in position, and the command has been passed along the batteries to ' give fire.' The enemy's artillery repl