e protected by a strong and costly navy to police the trade routes. As corn cheapened war-ships grew more costly. Meanwhile, on the continent, the Germanic States were moving in a somewhat similar economic direction. Between 1828 and 1836 the German Zollverien, or Customs-Union, was founded, and ultimately it embraced practically the whole of non-Austrian Germany. Further still, by laying the foundations of a united German nation, the members of this Zollverien soon began to consider the necessity of creating a powerful German army to protect its interests. This idea, as yet amorphous, received a stimulus in 1840, when France began to agitate for the recovery of her old Rhine frontier. The German answer to this move, one which has been the pivot of French foreign policy since the days of Richelieu, was Die Wacht am Rhein which was written at this time. In Spain chaos prevailed, and in 1834 the Carlist wars began. In France conditions were critical. In 1832 an insurrection broke out in Paris, and disputes between masters and workmen were of daily occurrence. The discipline of the French army was bad, and in 1835 an attempt was made on the life of Louis Philippe who had succeeded Charles X after the 1830 upheaval. In 1832 the relationship between England and France  46 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION THE CHANGING WORLD became strained. The French invasion of Belgium had a perturbing influence, and when once again Mehemet Ali revolted against the Sultan, utterly defeating his troops at Konieh, on December 21, 1832, France backed Egypt whilst Great Britain sided with Turkey. Then came the Peace of Kutaya, in April 1833, and in the following year France turned her attention seriously to the conquest of Algeria. This left England's hands free, and whilst Russia was fixing her eyes on Asia, the British Govern- ment engineered the Opium War in China which gave England Hong Kong in 1842 and threw open to the foreigner the ports of Canton, Amoy, Foochow, Ningpo and Shanghai. Thi