hem ? WORLD INTERDEPENDENCE AND WAR There can be little or no doubt that what we call the civilized world is an interdependent unit, and that when the uncivilized portions of it become civilized, then the whole will form one economic unit. But what do we mean by civilization ? We really mean " industriali- zation," and there can be little doubt that industrializa- tion is rapidly gaining hold on Asiatic and African peoples ; yet from this it must not be deduced off-hand that when they become industrialized the whole world is going to coalesce ; that trade will be liberated from its shackles ; that swords will be beaten into plough- shares, and that universal peace will be proclaimed. Rather is the opposite likely ; and why ? The answer to this question is to be found in this book itself. It has been shown how it happened that Great Britain became industrialized long before most of the other European nations, and that her industrial supremacy remained unthreatened until 1871, when the rise of the German Empire and of the German tariff system challenged it. Without tariffs Germany could neither have founded her industries nor have entered into competition with Great Britain, and as long as her home markets remained unsaturated her tariffs fostered her prosperity. It was only when once they were satisfied, and she began to dump her goods upon other nations, that her tariffs took on a war-like com- plexion and had to be supported by armaments. Will not the same evolution take place in Russia and in Asia, and throughout the as yet non-industrialized portions of the world ? Look at this question. Without wishing to be abusive, we can say Asiatic labour is as cheap as dirt ; Asiatic resources are almost 265 untouched, and Russia has established a wage system which in Europe proper is considered to be equivalent with slavery. Whether tariffs between European nations are drastically reduced, or whether they vanish, one thing is certain : Europe, in order to safeguard her eco