em on the outbreak of war, time wherein to manufacture them will be insufficient ; (7) and the Italian agreed as Italy lacks coal and oil, consequently the Italian army dreads mechanization. It will be seen that each delegate put forward a proposal which would benefit his own country to the detriment of other countries ; in fact to prepare for war and not to establish peace. The result was that quali- tative disarmament, as it was called, was dragged like a red herring across the main argument which was to disarm. Sir John Simon, the British delegate, con- sidered that the newest arms-tanks, aeroplanes, sub- marines and gas-being the most recently invented were the easier to scrap, when in fact the reverse is the case. The question as to whether it was morally right to equip an army on obsolete lines, and therefore needlessly sacrifice lives in war, never entered anyone's head. On this point General von der Goltz wrote forty years ago : " Nothing is worse than that the " soldier " should feel himself neglected in this respect, and to believe himself subject without his own fault, to an effect to which he is powerless. Defeat would thus appear excusable, and success cannot have a worse enemy than this feeling." (8) The likelihood of any solution of the disarmament problem being arrived at in Geneva is remote, because the question is dealt with at the wrong end-the causes of war being left to look after themselves. Until these causes are removed the only factors which will reduce armaments are, economic crisis and lack of money which will force down the military budgets, and the increasing cost in all civilized countries of social reform to prevent social wars. To-day in Great Britain more is being spent on doles to prevent revolution than on the defence forces to safeguard the country in the event of a foreign war. As the cost of the first rises, for lack of money the cost of the second will sink ; yet, as I have said, both stand or fall together, because money in it