who knew, as Thiers says, " like the snail, how to draw in his horns as soon as he met with an obstacle " and how once again to extend them when the obstacle was passed. The two men, otherwise so different, had, however, this in com- mon-both were utterly unscrupulous. The French, said Thiers, made two mistakes about this man : "The first when they took him for a fool, the second when they took him for a man of genius." He was neither ; but instead-one of the earliest examples of the opportunist politician so beloved by democracies, who would be looked upon to-day as an able and popular statesman. He had a great belief in himself and his destiny. When in London he had said to Taglioni, the dancer : " They [the people of France] will come to me without any effort of my own " ; and to Lady Douglas he once replied : " Though fortune has twice betrayed me, yet my destiny will none the less surely be fulfilled. I wait."(?) He did ; not really believing in democracy yet under- standing better than any of his contemporaries the weak- nesses of the people, upon which he played as on the keys of a musical instrument. He knew their reverence for 59 the intoxicating glory of his uncle, so he proferred them this potent draught. He realized that the people must have a religion, so he allied himself with the Church. Further, he knew that they must have a hero ; they were disgusted with such men as Louis XVIII, Charles X and Louis Philippe ; so he wound himself into the panegyrics of Thiers' Histoire du Consulat et de l'Empire, and popularized Béranger's lyrics-advertising himself in the Press, by pictures and by songs. In June he was elected by four Departments, and though the Assembly ratified his election he sent in his resignation saying : " If the people impose duties on me, I shall know how to fulfil them." This was to whet their appetite ; and it did not fail to do so, for, on September 26, he was re-elected by the same Departments, and, on October II, the law banishing the