his : Since 1832 the world has been transformed in one direction. This transformation has been stupendous, bewildering, magical ; yet it has been almost entirely material. This age has not been pre-eminent in art or in religion ; science has probed into the outer world and has revealed to us a new universe ; but still the inner world remains all but unexplored. Science has analysed and weighed the stars ; yet the human soul remains a mystery, a hidden and seemingly unfathomable secret. All this has taken place in the span of one long life. This book opens at the time when my father was born ; when 7  NIGHT MUTING VAL 8 PREFACE PREFACE VOICE his father was born, the Bastille was still standing, and Napoleon, a poverty-stricken sub-lieutenant of artillery, was cutting down his frugal meals in order that he might buy candles to light his studies of great books on war. In one hundred years, or at most one hundred and forty- four, we have this stupendous change in one direction. Is not it equally possible for us to effect as stupendous a change in another ? Is not this the problem of the hundred years which now faces us ? And is not one of the clues which will assist us as we advance into this shrouded labyrinth to be found in the words of Frederick the Great : " What is the good of experience if you do not reflect ? " Here then is the object of this book : To reflect on the experiences of the last hundred years in order that we may fashion a little candle which will light our way through the next hundred ; a flickering flame which will cast a glimmer here and there on the bindings of the great books on war which this century will see published ; a glimmer which will make it possible for us to read their titles, and by reading them enable future generations, who lift them from their shelves, to open them and to read within : " This war was avoided through the wisdom of our ancestors." That, studious reader, is a noble text. To be bound by tradition, to live in a groove a