oer War ? Certainly not the Queen of England, but the merchants of the City." 161 " National egotism, breeding self-interest in politics and war, and making war a means of satisfying the growing cravings of the nations, these nations therefore bringing into the fight a growing concentration of passion ; a more and more excessive feeding of war, including the use of the human factor and of all the resources of the country-such is the picture of modern warfare." (16) What he did not see was that Clausewitz's doctrine of absolute war was only profitable when an industrialized nation, or one struggling to become so, swallowed up an undeveloped one ; and that, on account of the growing interdependence of the industrial world, wars between industrialized nations were becoming increasingly un- profitable, because the destruction, moral, economic and financial, inseparable from absolute warfare, is anti- pathetic to industrial development. At this very time, however, there was one man who saw this clearly, not a soldier, nor a statesman, but a banker-Monsieur I. S. Bloch, a Pole. In 1897 he published in three volumes an elaborate analysis of modern war, entitled : The War of the Future in its Technical Economic and Political Relations, which so interested the Czar, that in 1898, he was persuaded to suggest a peace conference, which evolved into the Hague Conference of 1899. In 1899 an abridged edition of this work was published in English (17) and it is from this translation, edited by Mr. W. T. Stead, that the following quotations are taken. Agreeing with Clausewitz that war is a political instrument, the secret of his amazing prevision lay in the fact that, as politics had entirely changed during the preceding half century, passing as they had from the agricultural sphere to the industrial one, he realized that the instrument-war itself-must change with them. He says : " What is the use of talking about the past when you are dealing with an altogether new set of considera