uch liberalism, and, in the years immediately preceding the Mutiny, by humbling the Indian Princes and annexing their States he succeeded in making numerous enemies. During the conflict with Russia many troops had left India for the seat of war ; and in 1856 Canning, a weak man, who succeeded Dalhousie as Viceroy, upset the Indian Army by changing the recruiting regulations. All this was extremely foolish, for regimental mutinies had already occurred in 1843, 1844 and 1849. The condition of the Army was normal ; that is to say it was rotten, for military efficiency is a rarity in India. The officers were inefficient and untrained, and were very much as they are described in the following letter addressed to Colonel Doyle, Military Secretary, on October 31, 1817, by a subordinate officer stationed at Agra : "My dear Doyle,-The dawk [post] hour is approaching, so I must address you quickly. I had this morning for the first time a field day of instruction for my infantry brigade. . . " Commanding officers very rusty. One is deaf and blind- literally so. The second has never been before out acting with another regiment in line. " A third has never been in command till within the last few days. The fourth has a voice like thunder, a figure like Lumbo Panjo, a seat in his saddle like a washball, but a clear head, and knows what he is about." (14) In 1857, officers were sent out totally ignorant of the customs of the country. For instance, one engaging a servant asked him what his caste was, and got the reply : " Same caste as master, drink brandy sahib." Another, Colonel David Wood, of the Horse Artillery, " during dinner .. . turned gravely to one of the old Indian officers and said, ' Can you tell me what is a dhobie ? ' They all laughed, and it was explained that a dhobie was a man who washed your clothes. Wood, still grave, 77 said : 'Oh, that accounts for the difficulty. I told mine to clean my horse and he refused.' " (15) The Mutiny began at Meerut on May 11, 1857.