d to Germany's proposal for an armistice, and on the 11th it was signed on French soil ; that is the significant point. There can be no doubt that the German Armies were beaten, that her fleet was beaten, that her allies were beaten, and that her own people were beaten ; yet the Allied Powers won only a physical victory and they did not win a moral one. To effect such a victory demanded an unconditional surrender on the part of Germany. Germany never surrendered unconditionally, she surrendered on terms whilst she was still in occupation of French territory. What was the result of this ? The handing over of the German fleet removed all threat to the British frontiers ; the loss of Alsace and Lorraine did not fully secure the French frontier though it weakened the German. For France the war had resulted in a small gain of security, for Germany in a small loss of it ; one of the main causes of the war remained ; hence the present trouble in Europe and the probability of another war in which Germany will attempt to re-establish her frontiers of 1871, and France to maintain or enlarge upon her existing one.  CHAPTER XII THE CHANGING NATURE OF WAR, 1914-1918 The Inner Struggle. Traditional Warfare. Matériel Warfare. Economic Warfare. The Theory of Moral Warfare. The Weapons of the Moral Attack. THE INNER STRUGGLE IN this world there is a reason for all things. In every set of circumstances there lurks an uninevitable destiny. In the circumstances which existed before the War, war was a certainty, nothing could have prevented its outbreak except a change in the circumstances themselves. These were : That democracy stood for economic nationalism. whilst commerce, unseen by the men of mercantile mind, stood for economic interdependence ; that democracy gorged itself upon quantity, whilst science sought after quality, not brute force but economy of force, not ever- growing numbers but a deeper and a deeper truth. Science, the urge of Western civilization, which knew no bound