ear came a change. On January 14 an attempt on the life of the French Emperor was made by Orsini, and though it failed it had a strange influence on the political situation. As the plot had been hatched in London, France accused England of sheltering political assassins. This led to the " Panic of 1859," the fear that France was about to invade England, and 79 the Volunteer Movement of this same year. Then, on February 11, Orsini wrote to Louis Napoleon exhorting him to support Italian freedom. The Emperor, thoroughly terrified, thus came to believe that unless he took up arms in favour of Italy other attempts on his life would follow. Orsini had attacked him because he was an autocrat, and this attack had turned him into a democrat. Seldom, if ever, has a would-be political assassin so completely gained his point. And in the meanwhile other influences were at work. From the fatal field of Novara onwards, Cavour, that " scientific intriguer," never for a moment changed his purpose-the driving of the Austrians out of Italy. Italy could not do so single-handed, an alliance was essential, and to gain an ally he plunged Sardinia into the Crimean War. It was a premeditated act to liberate Italy, and it had nothing whatever to do with maintaining the Ottoman Empire. Of it Fyffe writes : " His Crimean policy is one of those excessively rare instances of statesmanship where action has been determined not by the driving and half-understood necessities of the moment, but by a distinct and true perception of the future. He looked only in one direction, but in that direction he saw clearly . . . every Italian whom Cavour sent to perish on the Tchernaya or in the cholera-stricken camps died as directly for the cause of Italian independence as if he had fallen on the slopes of Custozza or under the walls of Rome." (20) As Cavour found it impossible to establish an alliance with England he somewhat reluctantly turned to France. Louis Napoleon wanted to regain Savoy and Nice, which