gh importance, the waist of the whole Southern railway system, east to west, passing through the area Chattanooga-Atlanta-Macon. North of this lay the Alleghany range stretching for a thousand miles from Alabama to New York, separating the eastern political from the central strategical area. The last of the great geographical factors which influenced strategy was the Mississippi. To the North its value was three-fold : it cut the Confederacy in two, severing the eastern States from the western ; it formed the main water-way from north to south, and, including the Ohio river, as far as Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania. Once in Federal hands, it protected the right flank and rear of any army operating from Nashville round the southern extremity of the Alleghanies, and so towards the rear of the eastern political area, and towards Richmond. Strategically Chattanooga was the yard gate and Atlanta the back door of Virginia. THE STRATEGY OF THE WAR When, at half-past four on the morning of April 12, 1861, General Beauregard challenged the North to combat by firing upon Fort Sumter, Colonel Robert E. Lee still held his commission in the United States army, and Captain Ulysses S. Grant was seated as a clerk in his brother's leather store at Galena, Illinois. On May IO, Lee, for a brief space, was made Commander-in- Chief of the Confederate armies, and about the same time Grant offered his services to the Federal War Department, but his letter was not even answered. Yet, as fortune had it, on April 9, 1865, at Appomattox Court House, Lee in the full uniform of a General 91 surrendered to Grant who was dressed as a private soldier. Not only was this surrender a triumph of democracy over autocracy but of sound over indifferent strategy. The problem of the North was to crush the South and occupy half a continent. How immense an army was demanded by such an operation was not realized until after the First Battle of Bull Run, fought on July 21, 1861. In this fight, which took place alm