ches five hundred miles long were dug, and armies went to earth like foxes.  228 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET CHANGING NATURE OF WAR Then, in order to secure these trenches from surprise attacks, each side turned itself into an immense spider, and spun hundreds of thousands of miles of steel web around its entrenchments. Thus, after a few weeks of real warfare, the offensive à outrance, that high gospel of the pre-war manuals, was reduced to a wallowing defensive among mud holes and barbed wire. Armies, through their own lack of foresight, were reduced to the position of human cattle. They browsed behind their fences and occasionally snorted and bellowed at each other. The one problem which now confronted them was, how to re-establish movement ; for until one or both sides could move there was no possibility of a decision by arms -famine alone must become the arbiter. MATÉRIEL WARFARE As inundations of men, personnel warfare, had failed beyond hope of redemption, the General Staffs, still obsessed by the quantity complex turned to matériel, seeing in shell fire a means of blasting a road to Paris or Berlin. Thus the gun replaced the rifle. War was now to become an artillery duel. As the entire arsenals of the civilized world could not possibly meet the demand for shells, the General Staffs turned to the industries of their respective nations, and a new contest was begun. Which nation could produce the largest output ? For on this output, so it was thought, would victory depend. Armies now became intoxicated on T.N.T., and strategy and tactics are lost sight of in a storm of shells and roaring high explosives. For the preliminary bombardments of the Battle of Hooge, in 1915, 18,000 shells were fired ; for those of the First Battle of the Somme, in 1916-2,000,000 were fired ; for those at the Battle of Arras, in 1917-2,000,000, and for those at the Third Battle of Ypres, the same year -4,300,000 ! At this last-mentioned battle the shells fired during the prelimina