ightmares and delirium. No sooner was Napoleon bound like Andromeda to his island rock than England was bombarding Algiers. This is but an incident ; but it is a remarkable fact that, though Europe had been bled white, between 1815 and 1830 European nations went on merrily fighting with Mahomedans. Spain was in a desperate state, and, though war was anathematized, on July 23, 1816, an edict was issued to seize all beggars overnight and enroll them in the army ; but the beggars suddenly vanished and so frustrated a measure by which it had been calculated that her miserable forces would gain 60,000 warriors. (10) In 1820 her South American Colonies revolted, regiment after regiment was sent from Spain to perish by bullet and fever, until on December 9, 1824, her rule was finally overthrown in Peru on the field of Ayacuchio. As Fyffe writes : " Whether a continent [South America] claimed its independence, or a German schoolboy wore a forbidden ribbon in his cap, the chiefs of the Holy Alliance . assumed the frown of offended Providence." (11) Next, Spain herself surged with revolution, and to assist Ferdinand, Alexander sold him a fleet of ships, which when they arived at Cadiz were found to be rotten. Next Portugal was inflicted with insurrection ; then, in 1821, revolution in Greece nearly brought Russia and Austria to war. On April 7, 1823, France, in the name of the Holy Alliance, invaded Spain. The next year Louis XVIII died, and was succeeded by Charles X, bloated with clericalism and reaction. In 1825 a sacrilege law was passed, which legalized as punish- ment the amputation of the hand. In 1826 Russia went to war with Persia ; in 1827, France with Algeria, because her consul had been struck on the face with a fly-flap. This same year, under the Protocol of St. Petersburg, England, Russia and France agreed to put an end to the conflict between Greece and Turkey, and the result was the naval battle of Navarino, fought on October 20.  VOICE NIGHT MUTING 24 WAR AND