ely he was at a loss, were subjects of frequent dis- cussion amongst them, and one heard more than one surmise as to what would happen 'if we were allowed to scatter over the country like the Boers do !' Poor fellows, the proposition 169 was usually succeeded by a thoughtful silence, and a helpless look which argued ill for comfort in the verdict. Once a man actually and boldly averred what all had in their minds : "They've got more brains nor we !' and the announcement was not negatived by his comrades." (6) Here is yet another answer : " In situation after situation where our soldiers were helpless the Boers were perfectly at home. It was this which made one Boer equal to three freshly landed British soldiers in everything except those hammer and tongs fights which, in such a war, are quite exceptional." (7) It was indeed a matter of brains ; brains rendered useless by petty barrack routine, by pipe-clay and red tape, by the hunting and the cricket spirit, by anything and everything except a soldierly spirit and an interest in war. The British military tradition had emasculated the British Army, an army which if it had been well led, well mounted and well trained would have proved itself invincible, instead of having to rely on attrition to weary out the " embattled farmers." LESSONS OF THE WAR There is not the space here to examine the numerous small battles fought, the most important of which was that of Paardeberg, where Cronje and 4,000 Boers surrendered to Lord Roberts on February 29, 1900- the anniversary of Majuba ; nor would it be a very profitable task, so we will turn to the lessons which can be learnt from the fighting. Like every war since 1850, this one produced its crop of tactical novelties, the greatest of which was " the emptiness of the battle-field " due to the wide extensions enforced by the magazine rifle and smokeless powder. The old terror of a visible foe gave way to the paralysing sensation of advancing on an invisible one, against whom no