AR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION Pope back and defeated him at the Second Battle of Bull Run, on August 29 and 30. Then he committed a blunder of the first order ; he abandoned his defensive strategy and decided to invade Maryland and carry the war into the enemy's country. In his enthusiasm to save Virginia he cast strategy to the winds and sought a tactical decision. What he should have done was what General Nathaniel Greene did in North Carolina in 1781-avoided pitched battles and relied on rapidity of manœuvre to strike at weakness and at his enemy's lines of communication. The result was that with an army half clothed and half- fed, (for Lee was a most indifferent administrator), on September 17 he was defeated by Mcclellan at the battle of Antietam (Sharpsburg), and was compelled to with- draw south. From now onwards throughout the remainder of 1862 and the whole of 1863 the strategy of the Federal Govern- ment was pivoted on the capture of Richmond, not so much in order to win the war as to prevent Lee operating against Washington. On December 13, General Burnside, who had superseded Mcclellan, was severely repulsed at Fredericksburg, and on May 2-3, 1863, Hooker, who had superseded Burnside, met a similar fate at Chancellors- ville. And then Lee committed his second strategical blunder. Having learnt nothing from his Antietam campaign, he decided once again to invade Maryland. He did so in June, and was defeated at Gettysburg by General Meade on July 1-3. Meanwhile, what was happening in the West ? Here trial and error, those gropings in the dark, were by geography forced into line and compelled to march forward according to a fixed strategical plan. This plan was initiated by Grant when as a brigadier-general he occupied the city of Cairo on September 4, 1861. From there he saw the strategic value of the Mississippi, and without awaiting orders he occupied Paducah which blocked the mouth of the Tennessee river. The struggle for the Mississippi had begun, and out