ven to a few months, and that in this shortening of it 1,000,000 civilians had been killed and disabled by direct attack, the actual saving in life and reduction of suffering would have been colossal be- yond reckoning. However this was not so, and the result was, that the neurosis of the war was carried into the peace which followed it. In 1918-19. the world of 1871-1914 vanished, and outwardly nationalism seemed to be the only conception which emerged strengthened by the conflict. Neverthe- less this expansion of liberty may be compared to the growth of a soap bubble : The filament was nationalism, yet the breath which had caused it to expand was inter- nationalism. We see this clearly not only in the establish- ment of the League of Nations, but in the ceaseless assembly of international conferences during the last fourteen years. Many are forthwith wrecked by the national spirit ; some lead to definite proposals such as those which resulted in the signing of the Locarno treaties and the Pact of Paris ; but the point to note is that though most end in blind alleys and a few in high- ways along which no nation dares to travel alone, yet these conferences continue, and no nation has yet suggested that any other means of settlement is a practical one. A decision which vastly accelerated the decay of nation- alism was one which was taken purely to foster it. In 1932, to rectify her trade balance Great Britain abandoned her free trade policy, and by doing so put the coping stone on the ruin of European trade. This accomplished, it became not only totally impossible for Germany to pay reparations, for she could only pay them in goods, but totally impossible for France to continue to believe that she could pay them. Thus it came about that the first fruits of British trade protection were not to foster national prosperity, but to remove a dead weight off the chest of international prosperity. This happened at the Lausanne Conference in 1932, when, on July 8, reparations