on- sequences, amongst which may be especially noted the splitting up of the artillery and the employment of the artillery mass for the first time in the final act of decision, was considered as the only valid one and as being alone suited to the nineteenth century." (5) At Nachod the Prussians fought almost entirely without artillery, the guns being placed at the tail of the attacking corps. At Skalitz it was the same ; then the General Staff awoke to reality, a reality so well known to Frederick the Great and Napoleon. At Königgrätz the manœuvre battle replaced the methodical attack. To prepare the way the guns were brought forward 109 and massed, and under cover of their fire the infantry advanced. Yet after the war the old theory fought hard for its existence, and though the breech-loader had disturbed all previous calculations, as Colonel Maude says : "No one stopped to inquire what would have happened had both sides been armed with similar weapons. Everyone put down the comparative immunity the Prussian Infantry had enjoyed to the fact that they fought as skirmishers-and not to the accident that they were able to load lying down." (6) DECAY OF THE BRITISH ARMY In 1864, when Prussia invaded Holstein, England could do nothing. By treaty she was bound to support the Danes ; but this was impossible, for her military forces, though not insignificant, were incapable of taking the field. In 1865 her Regular Army numbered 184,768, of which 66,130 were at home, supported by a Militia of 138,727 and a Volunteer army of 178,963 ; but efficiency had sunk almost to zero. The infantry were untrained, the army reserve numbered only 2,081 and was not liable for foreign service. Of the cavalry, Sir Henry Havelock writes : " We have just succeeded in knocking on the head and virtually abolishing for all good effect the small modicum of rifle instruction which had with infinite labour and fight against prejudice been intro- duced into our partially rifle-armed cavalry . . . pro-