lly abolishing for all good effect the small modicum of rifle instruction which had with infinite labour and fight against prejudice been intro- duced into our partially rifle-armed cavalry . . . pro- claiming aloud that we pin our faith on spurs, lance and sabre." (7) Then he says : " On the one hand, one of our jaunty, smart, burnished, ' well set up' hussars, armed with his yard of blunt carving- knife (for what sword habitually kept in a steel scabbard is anything better), and his 500 or 600 yards rifle-carbine, intended to be harmlessly and playfully fired from the saddle, in mounted skirmishing from the back of a horse in perpetual motion, whose steadiness he cannot count upon for any fraction of a minute; or that still more gorgeous anachronism borrowed from the Middle Ages, the British lancer, with his flag and pole. . . . Now, let anyone having a knowledge of this subject  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION IIO RET RISE OF PRUSSIA contrast this sort of thing with-on the other hand-the destroy- ing power of a horseman, armed with a breech-loader carrying 1,000 yards, and giving 10 to 12 shots a minute . . . " (8) But Sir Henry was before his time ; for the lance lived on in the British Army until 1930, and the cavalry sword is still with us and also its steel scabbard. As regards artillery, the first breech-loading gun was adopted by the British Army in 1859, and between then and 1862 two and a half million pounds were spent on re-equipment. Then, in 1865, these guns were scrapped and a return was made to muzzle-loaders. Nevertheless, the war of 1866 roused the spirit of enquiry. It was at this time that General Peel, the Minister for War, said : " The question now is whether the British Army should be allowed to collapse." (9) In 1867 the Snider breech-loading rifle replaced the Enfield, and this same year the Ordnance Committee actually tested out a new cannon at Woolwich Arsenal. It was a small piece strapped broadside on across a horse's back. The horse was ti