city of Richmond with shells of Greek fire. If this don't do, he has an auger that bores a tunnel five feet in diameter, and he is going to bore to Richmond, and 99 suddenly pop up in somebody's basement, while the family are at breakfast ! So you see he is ingenious. It is really summer warm to-day ; there are swarms of flies, and I saw a bumble bee and a grasshopper."(16) Life in camp and bivouac was equally modern though a little rougher. Newspaper boys were seen not only behind the battlefields but on them, and at least one regimental newspaper, The Rapid Ann, called after the Rapidan, was published. (17) " Delousing" was a frequent " operation of war," men " seated shirt in hand on the ground, endeavouring to pick the vermin off that garment." (18) This done, they would open tins of condensed milk (19) and brew their tea or coffee as they did in 1914-18. INFLUENCE OF THE WAR ON EUROPEAN ARMIES In Europe the lessons of this war were left almost entirely unexamined, for, with the exception of a book written by Sir Henry Havelock entitled Three Main Military Questions of the Day, published in 1867, little notice was taken of this war until 1898, when Colonel Henderson published his Stonewall Jackson. By conti- nental Powers the whole struggle was looked upon as a kind of backwoodmen's affair ; there was no spit and polish about it, it lacked the professional touch ; conse- quently it was beneath the dignity of professional soldiers to examine it. To Graf von Moltke it was but a matter of " two armed mobs chasing each other around the country, from which nothing could be learned" ; and in England Lord Wolseley so little appreciated its significance that, as late as 1898 in his introduction to Henderson's Stonewall Jackson, he could write : " Had the United States been able early in 1861, to put into the field, in addition to their volunteers, one Army Corps of regular troops, the war would have ended in a few months." Surely one army corps in the continent of Ameri