c opinion, what the Spanish Inquisition was to the Christian religion, paralysed the will and the understanding of less in- fatuated men." (1) Thiers and Gambetta opposed the motion, and in only 16 out of 87 Departments of France was the clamour for war popular. The Emperor did not want it-he wept ; the Empress did-she rejoiced ; the Marseillaise intoxicated the people, and the boulevards of Paris roared with shouts of " A Berlin ! " Democracies are madder than kings. In the eighteenth century kings generally knew what their armies were worth ; from the middle of the nineteenth onwards democracies never have known. Though the French Army was well found compared to what it had been in 1796, it was rotten at the head. " Men were in high places whose antecedents would have shamed the better kind of brigand," (2) whilst in the Prussian Army the " Fatherland " was all in all ; in fact the spirit of 1870 in Germany was what the spirit of 1792 had been in France. Mobilization was at once set in motion, the " Krieg mobil " being telegraphed all over Prussia on the night of July 15. The Prussian scheme was based on system, the French on paper. The one was minutely arranged to be completed in a given number of days ; the French sent forward their formations unmobilized as they had done in 1859. The Prussian plan was founded on the principles laid down by Clausewitz : Direction, Paris ; objective- the French Army wherever met. The French plan- on the nebulous agreement with Austria and Italy- was to cross the Rhine at Germersheim with 250,000 men ; move into Bavaria ; separate the Northern from II5 the Southern States ; join up with the Austrian and Italian forces ; march on Jena and thence on Berlin. In absurdity this plan is rivalled only by the famous Plan XVII of 1914, and was wrecked even more rapidly ; for, on July 16-17, the Southern German States threw in their lot with Prussia and so annulled at one stroke the French triumphal march inco Bavaria. The Prussian forces w