ed to the outbreak of the Franco- Prussian War were obvious to all ; but, as is the custom in European diplomacy, they were not the ones which actually detonated the conflict. France feared the preponderance Prussia had gained in 1866, and Germany saw in France a Power which would, if she could, restore the old disgrace of the Rhenish Confederation ; she intended therefore to smash French Imperialism. The pretext was found in the vacancy of the Spanish throne caused by the revolution of 1868. General Prim, the revolutionary general, considered Prince Leopold of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen a suitable candidate, and this Prince accepted the crown on July 3, 1870. At once the French Press stormed against Prussia, demanding her humiliation or war ; whereupon Leopold withdrew his candidature. Shortly before this democratic outburst, Napoleon III had sent General Lebrun to Vienna to effect an offensive alliance with Austria and Italy against Prussia, and apparently reckoning on their support he demanded of William I a guarantee that Leopold's candidature would not be renewed. The reply he received was that the withdrawal had been agreed upon and that this closed the question. Bismarck, however, did not intend the matter to rest here. On July 13 he published from Ems an official telegram conveying the impression that the King had refused to see the French Ambassador. This set France on fire, and a vote for war was at once H II3  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 114 RETO CONSOLIDATION OF GERMANY carried by the French Government. " Whether the majority of the Assembly really desired war," writes Mr. Fyffe, " is even now a matter of doubt. But the clamour of a hundred madmen within its walls, the ravings of journalists and incendiaries, who at such times are the true expression of public opinion, what the Spanish Inquisition was to the Christian religion, paralysed the will and the understanding of less in- fatuated men." (1) Thiers and Gambetta opposed the motion, and in only 16 ou