wer. Psychologically this change was strongly fostered during the eighties and nineties by the writings of Nietzsche and Treitschke who created a new Germanic spirit, which soon found its politico-economic expression in the idea of Weltpolitik, an outlook which gazed beyond the national frontiers out on to the world's markets with a greedy eye. In 1893 the Pan German League was formed. On his deathbed the old Emperor William I had urged his grandson to remain friendly with Russia. Circum- stances had prevented this, so he turned to England, visiting Queen Victoria in August 1889. The next year, with an eye on the future, he arranged the exchange of Zanzibar for Heligoland ; Stanley, the African explorer, saying at the time that " England had got a new suit in exchange for a trouser-button " ;(4) yet he knew what he was about. This friendship continued until 1894, when the defeat of China by Japan led to friction ; for though England was friendly to Japan, France, Russia and Germany compelled her to relinquish Port Arthur. Simultaneously friction arose in South Africa, in which country throughout 1895 Germany and Great Britain  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 140 RET ECONOMIC CONFLICT stood in open antagonism. Then, on December 30, 1895, took place the Jameson Raid, and on January 3 the Kaiser sent a telegram to President Kruger congratulating him on his success. Meanwhile in the Turkish Empire and the Balkans new troubles were arising. The Armenian massacres of 1894 had shocked civilized nations and aroused national feeling, which in Greece was inflamed to such a pitch that the Ethnika Hetairia, a patriotic league, could no longer hold back its volunteers who, in April, 1897, accompanied by regular troops, crossed into Thessaly and so began the Græco-Turkish War which lasted until December the same year. During this small war, William II, in place of joining in the general outcry against the " Great Assassin," urged forward by the economic impulse and seeing large mark