following his death they had become economically interdependent. It was not Clausewitz who was wrong ; they were wrong-still obsessed by the outlook of the Agricultural Age. THE THEORY OF MORAL WARFARE If Clausewitz was right in his proposition that war is a continuation of peace policy, what should statesmen and soldiers have done in order to interpret him correctly ? They should have examined the civilization in which they lived. Had they done so they would have seen that though steam-power had physically contracted the world it had also intellectually expanded it. Whereas, in 1750, it took three weeks to travel from Caithness to London, in 1914 Vladivostok could be reached in a similar time. Intellectually what did this mean ? It meant that, as space shrank, intelligence expanded through travel and rapidity of communications. " This intellectual and moral revolution, which was brought about through a growth in the physical sciences, was not grasped by the military mind. It was not realized that, while only a hundred years ago it took days and weeks and months before a moral blow could be delivered, to-day it only takes minutes and hours. It was not realized that, while in the year 1800 the nervous system of a civilized nation was of a low and ganglionic order, by 1900 it had become highly sensitive and RET CHANGING NATURE OF WAR centralized. It was not realized that, as the whole aspect of civilization had changed, so also must the whole aspect of 233 warfare be changed, and, as science had accomplished the civil changes, so also must science accomplish the military ones. " In 1914, what happened was this : unless the war could be won within a few weeks of its outbreak, armies, as then orga- nized, could not, under probable circumstances, maintain or enforce the peace policies of their respective governments, because these armies, in constitution, belonged to a social epoch which was dead and gone. For over a hundred years civilization had been built upon science