ons were to be advanced by rushes of 30 to 40 yards until within 300 or 350 yards of the enemy ; bayonets would then be fixed and further rushes made up to 200 or 250 yards, when the second line having joined the first, the position was to be assaulted. The whole attack was very similar to those of the Peninsula and the Crimean wars ; in fact little or nothing had been learnt from the fighting of the previous fifty years, and it was only when the British broke away from their prehistoric Infantry Drill of 1896 that they were able to accomplish anything worth accomplishing. In Natal, Sir Redvers Buller, by no means an excep- tionally inefficient officer, as officers went in those days, showed a lack of generalship which was amazing. He was " completely imbued with the conviction that, in the field, no task was too difficult for infantry if well led."(3) His knowledge of tactics was nil. No attempt was made to establish co-operation between artillery and infantry in the attack. At Thaba-Myama, during the Tugela fighting, General Warren's views were that " the Artillery alone was to carry on the fire-fight while the Infantry was to settle matters finally with the bayonet alone."(4) And on January 12, 1900, Buller issued a special order saying : ". . . the men must get to close quarters with the Enemy-that is the way to victory and to safety ! Any retirement is fatal. The only thing the Enemy cannot withstand is a hand-to-hand fight with us."(5) As well tell a bird-trapper to catch snipe with a fire-tongs as issue such tactical nonsense. What did the British soldiers, the victims of this generalship, think and feel ? Here is the answer : " The astuteness and adaptability of their invisible foe, how cleverly he fought in all shapes, how rarely he committed him- self, how rarely he was at a loss, were subjects of frequent dis- cussion amongst them, and one heard more than one surmise as to what would happen 'if we were allowed to scatter over the country like the Boers do