was a man who washed your clothes. Wood, still grave, 77 said : 'Oh, that accounts for the difficulty. I told mine to clean my horse and he refused.' " (15) The Mutiny began at Meerut on May 11, 1857. The Crimean War was a fight in " a corner," but the Mutiny was a fight in " a continent." Its difficulties were not tactical but administrative and climatic. The enemy was beneath contempt, but the country was vast, only a hundred miles of railway existed, and the outward journey had to be broken at Suez, whither all water was brought by camels from the Nile nearly a hundred miles away. The nature of the fighting was frequently brutal. In June the massacre at Cawnpore took place, and retaliations naturally followed ; but it should not be overlooked that as all the prisons had been destroyed punishments for criminals were restricted to hanging and flogging. With a few brilliant exceptions, such as John Nichol- son, generalship was of a low order. Of Nicholson Fortescue writes : " It is remarkable that he seems to have been the first general officer who went everywhere and looked into everything with his own eyes." (16) Many of the others were far too old, being well in the sixties. As regards the art of war there is little to learn from the Mutiny. " Every strategical and tactical principle was disregarded, and rightly disregarded, by the British commanders with practically perfect impunity ; "(17) but mobility was not one of the outstanding virtues of the army as it had been fifty years before in the days of Lord Lake. It is true, however, that in June, 1857, the Corps of Guides carried out the astonishing march of 600 miles in 22 days, and that General Rose's march of 1,000 miles to Kalpi and thence to Gwalior must always remain a memorable achieve- ment, considering that it was carried out in the middle of the hot weather. "Men," writes one in an awful picture of one of Rose's marches, " began to talk of home and cool shady places and brooks as the hot wind begins to