n collapsed, and he ordered a general retreat on Mukden. Liao-yang was in every sense of the word a great battle, and far more so than those which followed it during the remainder of 1904, the most important of which was the battle of the Sha-ho, fought on October II. Meanwhile, Nogi with the Third Army had launched attack on attack against Port Arthur, and after losing over 90,000 men the fortress capitulated to him on January 2. Once relieved of this siege he was moved northwards to reinforce Oyama. On January 26-27 the battle of Heikoutai (Sandepu) was fought in a blinding snowstorm ; then reinforced by Nogi and a new army-the Fifth-under General Kawamura, bring- ing his strength up to 310,000 men, Oyama, towards the end of February, attacked Kuropatkin at the head of a numerically equal force at Mukden, and by turning his right flank compelled him, on March 9, to abandon his position and retire on Harbin. Whilst these operations were going on the Russian Baltic fleet under Admiral Rozhestvenski stood out from Libau on October 14, 1904; arrived at Kamranh on May 14, 1905 ; disappeared into the Pacific, and, on the 27th, met the Japanese fleet, under Togo, in the straits of Tsushima. By dawn the next day the Russian fleet had ceased to exist. Defeated on land, destroyed at sea, and threatened by revolution at home, Russia was not loath to accept the mediation of the President of the United States ; nor was Japan, for she was nearly at the end of her resources. Though the war drifted on through June and July, peace negotiations were opened on August 9, and the Treaty of Portsmouth (New Hampshire) was signed a fortnight later. By it Japan gained half the island of Saghalien, the lease of the Kwang-tung penin- sula and Port Arthur, and the recognition of her rights in Korea. 177 TACTICS OF THE WAR From so brief an outline of the more important events it is impossible to realize the extraordinary difficulties of this war ; the first great war fought by modern armies i