erity seemed to return. German manufactures once again launched forth on what appeared to be the route of a magnificent future. Now, instead of exporting her citizens-many of whom even returned from abroad-she lavishly dumped her products 'Made in Germany ' upon all the world-markets." (1) - This ceaseless dumping and the rising arrogance of the German temper led to endless commercial friction, more particularly antagonizing British industry. "Tirpitz himself always stoutly maintained that it was the competi- tion not of ships but of goods which changed the political face of Europe."(2) Economics became the fuel of politics, and in 1898 we find nations drawing together for economic reasons only. In that year the tariff war between France and Italy ended, France acquiescing in Italy's claim on Tripoli. EXPANSION BY COLONIZATION German energy being diverted from war to industriali- zation made easy for her by the discipline of her people, the remaining great European Powers, for the most part already industrialized or partially so, sought to increase their prosperity through colonial expansion. From 1870 onwards a veritable crusade was carried out by European nations in the name of Gold, every banker, statesman and merchant swearing on his cheque book for his personal  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 134 RET ECONOMIC CONFLICT profit to "civilize " such portions of the world as could not defend themselves against the white man's rifles and cannon ; for " progress " to these people was synonymous with "conquest." Having since 1815 freed themselves from autocratic government, their one intention was to force the absolutism they had rejected down the throats of all peoples who happened to be any colour except white. As regards aggression the years 1870-98 are only equalled by the age of Ghenghis Khan. Between 1870 and 1900 Great Britain acquired 4,754,000 square miles of territory, adding to her population 88,000,000 people : between 1884 and 1900 France acquired 3,583,580 s