er with it should deliver the final blow. The drums of all closed bodies commence beating from the moment that the advance to the assault can no longer be concealed from view. Whether the closed bodies find themselves alongside or in rear of each other, what their formation is, and whether the commander should still retain a reserve depends entirely on circumstances. In the most decisive moment of the attack there is only one watchword for the fighting line, and that is ' Forward ! Forward ! straight for the goal !' The beating of  154 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET MYTHS AND REALITIES drums, the continuous sounding of the ' Rapid advance ' by all the bugles, sets everybody, even the hindermost, in motion, and with cheers the assaulting troops throw themselves upon the enemy." (9) Here again we are back in the realms of military mythology. For such a form of fighting in face of the rifle bullet one thing only was missing ; to make men all but immortal, like Achilles they must be dipped into the river Styx. THE MECHANIZATION OF MORALE It was obvious even to the writers of this criminal nonsense that the problem could be solved only by magic. If the instinct of self-preservation could be suppressed, the man would become a machine ; how was this Robot to be fashioned ? Something must cancel out fear, and this something was discovered in the magical word " morale." Had not Napoleon said that " the moral is to the physical as three to one " ? Well then, the answer was obvious : Moralize the soldier and he will cease to be afraid ; therefore in spite of danger the larger herd of men will swamp the smaller. How simple was the solution-it was a mere matter of elementary arithmetic. In the Franco-Prussian War there died a very gallant and uncommon soldier, for he was a " human " philo- sopher-his name was Ardant du Picq. He had seen much service, and before 1870 he had jotted down his reflections on war in a haphazard way. After the war they were published in book form, we