ces numbered 1,500,000 ; the Turkish maximum being about one-third of this figure. As regards armaments, the Turks were equipped with Krupp breech-loading artillery far superior to the Russian bronze cannon ; also their Peabody-Martini rifle, with an effective range of 1,800 yards, was superior to the Russian Krenk rifle with a maximum range of 1,200. As regards strategy, the Turkish commanders fought on the defensive, the Russians being the aggressors. As regards tactics, the Turks rightly relied on the trench,  ECONOMIC CONFLICT WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 144 and the Russians wrongly on massed frontal attacks. Kuropatkin, at the time Skobeleff's chief of staff, says : " Even when we had arrived within 600 paces of the enemy we made but little use of our rifles, and attempted to advance without firing a shot, without taking ad- vantage of the natural cover which the ground afforded " ; (10) and in spite of the terrible losses the Russians sustained, after the war we find their leading tactician, General Dragomiroff, writing : "The con- clusions of the Prussians must not be applied to our men, who are well known to prefer fighting shoulder to shoulder. ... What the bullet cannot do the bayonet will." (11) 145 Avoiding the Turkish fortresses of the Quadrilateral- Rustchuk, Silistria, Shumla and Varna-the Russians decided to cross the Danube between Rustchuk and Nikopol, mask the Quadrilateral, cross the Balkans and advance on Adrianople. Clearing the Danube, at the vicinity of Zimnitza they bridged the river. Meanwhile Abdul Kerim, the Turkish Commander-in-Chief, con- sidering the whole movement a feint, lay inactive in the Quadrilateral. On July 3 General Gurko occupied Tirnova, outflanked the Shipka pass by crossing at the Hanikoi pass, and so freed the Shipka of the enemy ; whereupon the Sultan relieved Abdul Kerim of his command, replacing him by Mehemet Ali, and directed Osman Pasha, then uselessly garrisoning Vidin, to move with his 30,000 men towards Plevna,