rea. 177 TACTICS OF THE WAR From so brief an outline of the more important events it is impossible to realize the extraordinary difficulties of this war ; the first great war fought by modern armies in an undeveloped country. The Russians were separated from their home base by thousands of miles, the Japanese from theirs by a precarious command of the sea. Both sides had but one railway to supply them ; yet in spite of all these difficulties, accepting the Russian strategy, or rather lack of strategy, as it was, it was the superior Japanese tactics and training which won the day. The Japanese General Staff had been fattened on Clausewitz, and the army imbued with the highest patriotism. Facing them was a General Staff decadent, indolent and obsolete, and an army of magnificent animal substance, ox-like patient and powerful, but trained for warfare a hundred years out of date. Dogged and determined the Russian soldier was incapable of thinking, the officers were ignorant and intriguing ; in fact the whole army was a clumsy, cumbersome machine. Loaded up with 90 lbs. of kit, and thus turned into a pack-animal, it was next to impossible for the Russian soldier to undertake an offensive operation ; and yet it was for the offensive that he had been trained ; an offensive not such as depended on skill, on mobility, on cover by ground and on accuracy of fire, but on a straightforward frontal movement such as we have seen in 1854 and 1878. "The Russian Army had been brought up on the idea that shock tactics and close order were the best means by which to win battles, and it was really for moral reasons, and to frighten other countries, that a magazine rifle was issued to its troops. . The regulations certainly contained rules for firing lines, supports, and reserves, but this was mere vapouring, and was never intended to be taken seriously. It was the bayonet which was ' to do the trick.' " (11) Again L  178 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET LAST OF WARS OF EXPANSION we read