ance and Great Britain followed in his footsteps. The Battle of the Somme opened on July I and dragged on to November 18, by which time the British casualties alone amounted to 475,000. In the Balkans, the Roumanian Government had entered upon negotiations with the Russian Government as early as January 22, but it was not until August 17, the day Brusilov's offensive ended, and the failure of the Somme battle had become patent to all men, that Roumania concluded an agreement with the Entente Powers, and, on the 27th, declared war on Austria- Hungary. On December 6 Bukharest capitulated to the Germans. The lack of unity of effort between Roumania and the Entente Powers was only exceeded in the case of Greece. Greece was openly pro-German and did not want to have anything to do with the Entente, which nevertheless bullied her into the war by a series of measures which would undoubtedly have brought down the wrath of the neutral world had not the German submarine campaign forced all neutral States to side with her enemies. So great was this change of feeling that the British Government issued on July 7 an Order in Council rescinding the " Declaration of London." This was met by formal objections only on the part of the United States. As regards British relationship with Greece, the follow- ing facts are of interest, as they show that immorality in war is only justifiable after neutral opinion has been won over. On January II, the French occupied Corfu, the Greeks strongly objecting ; between June 6 and 22, Greece was blockaded by the Entente Powers ; on September 9, Macedonia was blockaded ; on October 11, the Greeks were compelled to surrender their fleet ; eventually, in November, a Provisional Government, 2II under M. Venizelos, was forced upon Greece ; troops were landed in the Piræus and, on December 14, the Greeks were compelled by ultimatum to withdraw their entire forces from Thessaly. These actions, which were anything but honourable, show the growing strength