all know how to fulfil them." This was to whet their appetite ; and it did not fail to do so, for, on September 26, he was re-elected by the same Departments, and, on October II, the law banishing the Bonapartes was abrogated. Thus it happened that he became President and took the oath " to remain faithful to the democratic Republic," and, " to regard as enemies of the nation all those who may attempt by illegal means to change the form of the established goverment." On March 31, 1849, his military career began. On the 23rd, as we have seen, Charles Albert had been defeated at Novara. This roused Louis Napoleon's apprehension, so, in order to anticipate Austria's restoration of the Papal power, he sent General Oudinot, son of the Marshal, and a body of French troops to Rome. Here, after an initial repulse by Garibaldi, Oudinot laid siege to the city, entered it on July 3, whereupon the Pope restored the Inquisition. Having thus strengthened the religious factor, the next step was to weaken the home political factor. In 1846 the principle of universal suffrage had been proclaimed in France. In May, 1850, the Assembly blindly reduced the number of electors from nine to six millions, and so rendered itself highly unpopular. Here was Louis Napoleon's chance ; he had, a year or two back, stood as a vindicator of universal suffrage, and yet he now supported the Assembly ; for by doing so he knew that he was  60 RET NATIONALISM TAKES FORM WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION preparing its ruin. When a friend said to him : " But you will perish with it," he replied : " On the contrary, when the Assembly is hanging over the precipice I shall cut the rope." (8) His Presidency was due to expire on May 8, 1852, so having discredited the Assembly he now set to work. He flattered the clergy, promised prosperity to the bour- geoisie, wealth to the workers, and distributed cigars and sausages to the soldiers. In the eyes of the people he rose from simple citoyen to notre prince. To prepare