nto the war might have been delayed ; but  202 RET GRAND STRATEGY OF THE WAR WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION to have avoided it would have meant that the initial attack would have had to have been made against Russia instead of against France. The danger of attacking Russia first and France afterwards, was not that Germany might not have been able to have held up a French attack, for this, judging from our present knowledge of fire-power reinforced by trenches and wire, she could have done quite easily. The danger was that had the Central Powers launched such a campaign, the depth of Russia would have secured the Russian Armies against decisive defeat for an indefinite time, as it eventually did. Meanwhile, England might have come into the war, and the Belgians would certainly have invited England, or France, to hold the Liège gap which would have rendered German decision against France doubtful. The Germans decided, therefore, to risk the shock to neutral nerves which the invasion of Belgium would cause, and to attempt to overwhelm the French Army and any troops England might send over to France in one campaign. Should this prove successful, politics might go to the devil. That was the German point of view. 1914. THE BREAKDOWN OF THE GERMAN WAR PLAN The first phase of the war covered the period from the outbreak of hostilities to the end of September, 1914. During this period the war revealed itself, even to the most unobservant of onlookers, as a world struggle. The first political event of importance was the viola- tion of the Belgian frontier by German troops on August 4. This brought the British Empire into the war and at one blow annulled all Germany's hope of gaining her ultimate object, for her command of the sea was now checkmated. Politically, the preponderance of the British fleet over the German had a detrimental influence on all neutral countries outside Europe, for now the conflagration appeared to be localized to Europe. The possibility of 203 Germany wi