the war be over. In the moral attack, as waged under the conditions imposed by democratic warfare, one side of the problem is to hit the civilian in order to terrify him, the other is to stop the soldier from being hit so that he may continue to hit the civilian. Here it is that M. Bolch's theory that the bullet has rendered war impossible breaks down. Considering his amazing foresight and insight into modern warfare, it is astonishing he never saw that the answer to half an ounce of lead was half an inch of steel. Had he seen it, he would have had to rewrite his book from start to finish. Baron de Jomini saw it vaguely, as I have shown. An armoured traction engine was suggested in the Crimean War ; armoured trains and ships were used in the American Civil War ; armoured wagons in the Franco-Prussian ; armoured traction engines in the South African, and armoured sap-rollers (shields on wheels) in the Russo- Japanese war. Yet, between 1837 and 1914 I know of but one soldier, Colonel C. B. Brackenbury, who was really imbued with what I will call " the tank idea." In July, 1878, he wrote an article for The Nineteenth  238 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION Century Review entitled Ironclad Field Artillery, and the main points contained in it are worth setting out. In brief his argument was as follows : The leading lesson of the Plevna operations was, " that troops of any kind under cover are practically invincible so long as the enemy is in front of them" ; that the effect of artillery fire "increases as the range diminishes "; " that the destructive power of artillery at close quarters is practic- ally annihilating ;" but that as the power of infantry " has immensely increased," it is not possible to advance the guns to annihilating range. The problem is, how to protect the guns from bullets, and his suggestion is to carry forward " thin iron shields capable of protecting the gunners against infantry fire " in " one or possibly two carriages to each battery," the shields bei