xpenditure on social reforms tend towards revolution. Both meant national and inter- national bankruptcy. War, or revolution, which was it to be ? We will attempt to trace the answer to the question. INFLUENCES OF THE WAR IN SOUTH AFRICA The immediate result of the war in South Africa was to dislocate the balance of power in Europe. Engaged in one war, Great Britain was unlikely to become in- volved in another. This freed the hands of Germany, and the result was the Naval Bill of 1900, by which her fleet was nearly doubled, a programme being laid down for 38 battleships and 20 armoured cruisers. In 1901, from the steps of the Bismarck monument in Hamburg, William II exclaimed : " Our future is on the water." What he exactly meant by these words he left it to his listeners to guess. By Great Britain they very naturally were taken as a challenge to her own naval supremacy ; yet it must not be overlooked that, as Germany possessed few colonies, she had to guarantee for her trade free overseas markets, and that in the event of war this guarantee was impossible without a powerful fleet. 183 Economic necessity was in fact directing the Kaiser's policy quite as much as if not more than his naval enthusiasm and love for dramatic effect. The result of this naval increase was that in 1904 Admiral Sir John Fisher persuaded the British Govern- ment to shift the centre of gravity of the fleet from Gibraltar to the North Sea, that is, within easy reach of Germany, which country was thus brought into the danger-zone. In October 1905, this able and far-seeing sailor laid down the first Dreadnought, and it was this same year that he predicted a war between Great Britain and Germany in August 1914.(a) The British Army also was reorganized. Its in- capacity in South Africa could scarcely be overlooked, especially now that a war spirit was creeping over Europe. In 1903 a committee of enquiry under the chairmanship of Lord Esher was assembled, and out of its recommendations arose two gr