laced under the protection of the French flag." These Capitulations had fallen into abeyance ; nevertheless, in order to stir up Russia, Louis Napoleon demanded their revival. Nicholas objected and, feeling that Austria would not oppose him on account of the assistance he had rendered her in 1849, that England was at the moment under the sway of a pacifist Government, and that Prussia was in the hands of a religious maniac who could not but welcome a crusade against the infidel, early in 1853 he sent Prince Menshikov with an ultimatum to Constantinople demanding (1) A recognition of the status quo as regards the Holy Places, and (2) the right to protect all orthodox Christians in the Ottoman Empire. On May 22, Menshikov, failing to obtain satisfaction, withdrew from Constantinople, and exactly a month later a Russian army under Prince Gorchakov crossed the Pruth, occu- pied the Danubian provinces and advanced into Mol- davia and Wallachia. The Turks, feeling certain of the support of the Western Powers, presented an ultimatum to Russia, which was rejected ; whereupon, on November 30, the Russians destroyed a Turkish squadron at Sinope. This resulted, on January 3, 1854, in the British and French fleets entering the Black Sea. In February the Russian ambassador left London, and on March 27 Great Britain and France, and later on Sardinia, declared war. CONDITION OF THE BRITISH ARMY In 1852 the British budgetary expenditure stood at £52,000,000, of which an insignificant part was spent on military preparations. The army was in no state for 67 any active service undertaking, small or large. For example, in an article under the heading of " Army Reform " published in Blackwood's Magazine about this time may be read the following effusion by General Sir John Fox Burgoyne : " This great popular movement for an educational test for the army is uncalled for, delusive and mischievous. . . . At the public school will be found one set of boys who apply to their studies, and mak