this time a veritable trap, was formed in which the last of the great German offensives flickered out. When we examine these battles we see quite clearly that the German tactical gains were the measures of  RET operating against Germany on all fronts. 220 short duration, not only because the Germans were falling back but because the Entente Armies were fighting under a thinking brain, the brain of a pugilist, a man who Battles now followed in rapid succession, and all were of these battles lasted twenty-one days, the second four. point, at Amiens, and the end was in sight. The first of On August 8 the British Armies attacked another vital French Armies attacked a vital spot as well as a soft one. On July 18 the Second Battle of the Marne began, and the The soft spots became traps and the reserve-the terrier. men withdrawn from them were concentrated in reserve. battle front was thinned, soft spots were created and the with a strategical brain, what was the result ? The Once the British and French Armies were provided was placed in supreme strategical direction of all forces that he was raised to the position of Generalissimo and November 5, six days before the termination of hostilities, in-Chief of the Allied Armies in France, it was not until man advance on the Lys, promoted him to Commander- and British Armies. Though the next disaster, the Ger- the 2 1st resulted in a decision being arrived at in Doullens to appoint General Foch Co-ordinator of the French but it was not until March 26 that the tactical débâcle of became Chief of the Imperial General Staff in London ; increased, and on the following day Sir Henry Wilson the powers of the Supreme War Council had been war, for it led to unity of command. On February 5 prepare the inevitable counter-attack of his enemies. tion was the most effective step he could have taken to won by Great Britain and France during the entire was in at least one respect the greatest strategical victory The tactical defeat of the Bri