ary 30, 1863, arrived at Milliken's Bend a little north of Vicksburg. From here for three months he carried out a desperate campaign among the swamps, and then decided to run the gauntlet of the Vicksburg batteries, abandon his communications, and attack the fortress on its eastern flank. This he did early in May ; and then followed one of the most brilliant campaigns in history, Vicksburg capitulating on July 4. After Vicksburg Grant urged the Federal Government  94 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RETO FIRST OF MODERN WARS to allow him to move on Mobile so as still further to contract the Confederacy ; but this was not allowed. Then, early in October, he was ordered to Chattanooga to relieve General Rosecrans, who, having been badly defeated at the battle of Chickamauga on September 19-20, was now in a desperate situation. Grant arrived there on October 23, and a month later decisively defeated the Confederates under General Bragg, and was planning to push on to Atlanta when, on March 3, he was called to Washington to take over supreme command. Here he at once got down to his plan. He decided on an overland movement on Richmond, with the main army, the Army of the Potomac, under General Meade, flanked by two smaller forces, one in the Valley of Virginia and one operating from Fortress Monroe. The object of these armies was to force Lee to fight, and to compel the Confederate Government to send every man to his support. Whilst these three armies held Lee as in a vice, Sherman, at the head of 100,000 men was to advance from Chattanooga, drive the Confederate forces before him, occupy Atlanta, advance on Savannah, and, once based on this port, either move to Richmond by sea or advance northwards through the Carolinas and so attack Lee's rear and deprive the Confederacy of its adminis- trative base of operations-its food supply. This stupendous project was put into force on May 5, 1864. Rapidly Grant moved forward, and battle after battle took place in Virginia-in the Wil