the walls of Vienna ; now, in 1913, they were hanging on to the European shore-line of the Propontis with their finger- tips. The struggle with Asia was at an end ; it was time a new struggle should begin, and Europe was ready for it. Stuffed with gold, weapons, explosives and political 195 madness, her many peoples blindly slid towards the abyss. A Zeppelin accidentally comes to ground at Lunéville, someone scribbles an obscene word on her envelope, and Germany is thrown into hysteria. Bernhardi proclaims the next war, and in the theatres and in the cafés of every European city the more chauvinistic a tirade the more frenzied the applause. The Press of all countries piles neuroticism like fuel upon the fire. Baron Beyens, Belgian Minister at Berlin, says : " Peace remains at the mercy of an accident."(13) Colonel House says : " The whole of Germany is charged with electricity. . . . Everybody's nerves are tense. It only needs a spark to set the whole thing off."(14) Francis Ferdinand and his wife are murdered in Sarajevo on June 28, 1914. Here is the accident, here is the spark which detonates the European volcano built by the two hostile camps fashioned out of 1871. The World War is upon us-the climax of the Franco-Prussian. Its flames are seen in every land, its ashes fall upon every country, and even as I write they still suffocate us with their stench.  PART IV PERIOD OF NATIONAL CONSUMMATION 1914-1932 RET  CHAPTER XI THE GRAND-STRATEGY OF THE WORLD WAR, 1914-1918 The Governing Problems. 1914, The Breakdown of the German War Plan. 1914, The Change in the German Objective. 1915, The Year of Political Blunders. 1916, The Year of Physical Attrition. 1917, The Year of Moral Attrition. 1918, The Year of Decision. THE GOVERNING PROBLEMS THE war which now took place had two main characteristics : First, it was a European Civil War ; secondly, it was a World War ; for though it started as a local contest between two nations, the Austrians and the Serbs, who declared wa