be overlooked, especially now that a war spirit was creeping over Europe. In 1903 a committee of enquiry under the chairmanship of Lord Esher was assembled, and out of its recommendations arose two great changes, namely, the creation of the Committee of Imperial Defence, which dealt more with foreign policy than with defence and was in no sense an Imperial organization, and the abolition of the Commander-in-Chief and his replace- ment by the Army Council, a committee of equals formed out of the heads of the War Office departments with the Secretary of State for War as chairman. Its ad- vantage was that it enabled the Cabinet to impose its will upon the Army without having first to wage a battle royal with the Commander-in-Chief supported by the military clubs. Its disadvantage was that as most governments, more particularly governments drawn from the Conservative party, possess no military policy outside economy in expenditure, it left the Army without a head to fight its battles. " Gentlemen, never give a decision," once said an Army Councillor of wit, " for if you do you will bitterly regret it." This saying shows clearly the limitations of this Council as a policy-making machine. Once the Commander-in-Chief was out of the way, Mr. Haldane, who became Secretary of State for War  184 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET TURMOIL OF THE NATIONS in 1905, took the matter of reorganization in hand. He reduced the Regular Army in size and organized it as an Expeditionary Force of one cavalry division, six infantry divisions, and army troops. In addition he converted the Militia into the Special Reserve, and created the Territorial Force, as a second line army, out of the Volunteer Forces. As regards the British Empire as a whole, the most far-reaching change was neither naval nor military, but political. The Empire had set out to crush the national spirit of two small republics. It did so for a brief seven years, when, in 1909, the Union of South Africa was established ; but