reedom nationalized in a manner un- dreamt of in past ages, and then rationalized into an instrument for war. Gold and iron were now welded together, interfused and intermixed, and out of this seemingly magical metal was a new witchcraft, a new civilization, compounded. A civilization in which faith in self gave way to fear of others. 1 In 1871 France appeared down and out, yet in 1872 to the German eye once again did she appear threatening. In this year, to prepare for the eventual revenge she established compulsory military service, and through the  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 138 RET ECONOMIC CONFLICT newly created Committee of Defence she began to organize the whole country as a vast entrenched camp. The result of this rapid and astonishing recovery was, that this same year, in order to isolate France Bismarck approached Russia and Austria and established an entente called the Dreikaiserbund, which endured until the Russo-Turkish War of 1877-78, when it became clearly apparent that Russia and Austrian interests did not coincide. Failing in this larger scheme, in 1879 he established a Dual Alliance between Germany and Austria, the main terms of which were, that each country would support the other if attacked by Russia, and that if any other country attacked, then a benevolent neutrality would be maintained. Though this agreement lessened the likelihood of an Austro-Russian war it in no way prevented a Franco- Russian coalition. So in 1881, he revived the Dreikaiser- bund idea, and became exceedingly friendly to England. Meanwhile, as we have seen, he encouraged France in her colonial enterprises, not only to compensate her for the loss of Alsace-Lorraine but to embroil her with England and Italy-this, as we have also seen, led to the French quarrel with England over Egypt and the French- Italian quarrel over Tunis. Italy now turned to Germany and Austria, and on May 20, 1882, a Triple Alliance was established between the three countries. By 1883 Bismarck's poli