ial and industrial middle classes. The first change was largely political ; the second could not have been accomplished unless social and industrial revolution had preceded and occasioned the political. After 1688 the representatives of the parties contending for power had consisted for the most part of the landed interest ; after 1832 the Whig landowners made common cause with the commer- cial interests, and admitted a whole new class to a share of political representation."(11) The ultimate effects resulting from this political change were deep and occult. The immediate ones were insignificant, because it generally takes a long time for political reform to mend social and industrial fractures. Between 1838 and 1842 foreign trade was stagnant and the people were hustled into the work- houses, by them called " Bastilles "-an ominous word. Oliver Twist represents this period. Then, in 1842-43, came the Factory Acts which led to a definite and immediate social amelioration, and which were actually preceded by military reforms ; for, in 1840, £3,500 was 45 voted for the education of soldiers' children, and, in 1841, regimental libraries were sanctioned though scarcely encouraged. Humanitarianism could not, however, restore trade, and as trade was at a standstill poverty was all-prevalent ; consequently a demand was made to abolish protective duty on corn. The manufacturers seeing that cheap corn would mean cheap wages supported this movement. It was no concern of theirs whether British agriculture was ruined as long as they could increase their profits, and destroy the political power of the landed class. They saw gold glittering before them, and were so blinded by its sheen that they could not see that a country deprived of its agricultural foundations must of necessity be protected by a strong and costly navy to police the trade routes. As corn cheapened war-ships grew more costly. Meanwhile, on the continent, the Germanic States were moving in a somewhat similar eco