protection were not to foster national prosperity, but to remove a dead weight off the chest of international prosperity. This happened at the Lausanne Conference in 1932, when, on July 8, reparations were finally abolished.  260 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION This abolition of reparations, which in a sane world would never have been opposed, was the first step taken since 1918 to throw off the neurosis of the war and get back to sanity ; a step gallic and charmingly confirmed by M. Herriot ; for when he " came down the stairs at the Beau Rivage [Hotel] and was surrounded by a clamorous crowd of journalists .. . perceiving close to him in the front row two girls representing one a French and the other a German newspaper," he said, " ' et maintenant j'embrasserai une française et une allemande,' and acted accordingly, kissing each girl on both cheeks."(4) The next step is the cancellation of war debts, and the third, and by far the most difficult-a rational revision of international tariffs. THE GROUPING OF THE NATIONS Meanwhile other forces, more occult, have been at work ; for in spite of the rise of new nations, and the increasing agitation by fractions of old nations to gain their political liberty however much it might clash with their economic interests, simultaneously with the ending of the war do we see emerging out of nationalism itself the formation of amorphous groups of nations. In Russia, the revolution of 1917, shattering an empire, theoretically at least created a number of Soviet republics which socially and politically were autonomous ; yet it simultaneously gave birth to the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, which super-State retains economic autonomy in its own hands. In America this evolution had been reached after the Civil War, which in its own sphere may be compared to the Russian revolution. But in 1919, though both these super-States were founded upon economics, the difference between them lay in their economic machinery. Whilst in the Sovie