uring the Crimean War. Then he added : " An attack made with only part of your force at once awakens the idea of the possibility of non-success," (5) as if to provide against mishap were a detriment in generalship. It was this noted writer, basing himself upon Clausewitz, who initiated what may be called the bull-ring system of attack, head down and straight forward at anything- picador, matador or post-rail. The French learnt better than their victors. Their Regulations of 1875 point out the preponderating im- portance of fire, and that no formations can move under effective fire, consequently fighting is by skirmishers only. Their artillery tactics, however, remained de- fective. They could not see that the bombardment was useless unless sustained up to the assault. Their Infantry Regulations from 1875 to 1900 do not even mention artillery, it being assumed that the guns have finished their task once the infantry begin to advance. There was no co-operation between artillery and infantry, and in all European armies it was the same. Then came the 1877-78 War, and from it German and French soldiers, now beginning to forget the reality of 1870-71, read into it the lessons they wanted to read. So, in place of studying the war with an open mind, they turned it upside down, fondly imagining that in its romantic dregs they could find tactical salvation. Skobeleff, a courageous swashbuckler with the mind of a corporal of grenadiers, had said : " The bullet is a fool, the bayonet is a hero"-here was something to bite on to. Had not a German eye witness written of Pevna:  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 152 RET MYTHS AND REALITIES " The Russian troops commenced to move. When they were within easy range we hailed them with a quickfire of two to three minutes' duration. I noticed deep gaps in their lines which were promptly filled up. They were allowed to approach as far as the foot of the hill. Then one bugle sounded the charge ; a dozen others responded. . . . Nearer and nearer