ain lands were frequently covered with kaoliang (millet), which grows to a height of from eight to twelve feet, small parties of men and sometimes entire firing lines encountered each other unawares. Further still, the Chinese villages, in which there was much fighting, being walled and divided up by a network of narrow lanes, could normally be cleared only by hand-to-hand encounters. Generally speaking, however, the numerous bayonet attacks recorded were not assaults at all but merely occupations of positions from which the enemy had retired or had been driven out by shell fire. The outstanding lessons to be learnt from this war are : the failure of frontal attacks and the success of envelopments ; the enormous protective power of  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 180 trenches, when well built, and of wire entanglements, as well as the increasing deadliness of the machine gun. The steady decline in casualties per hour and a corres- ponding increase in the duration of the battle is most noticeable. Thus, whilst in the eighteenth century the losses per hour were from 4 to 8 per cent .- under Napoleon 2 per cent., and in the 1866 and 1870 wars 1.5 per cent .- in Manchuria they were o.I to 0.2 per cent. But whilst in the eighteenth century a battle lasted generally 5 or 6 hours, in Manchuria we find it lasting several days. The battle of Mukden took 6 days, but in 1870 St. Privat was over in 8 hours. The most important lesson of all, however, was the growing power of artillery, which is proved again and again. Thus, in the " Reports from British Officers," Colonel W. H. H. Waters says : " By the light of my new experiences I can see no reason why artillery should not often be the decisive factor, and it certainly was at Telissu." (13) And Major J. M. Home writes : "The great impression made on me by all I saw is that artillery is now the decisive arm and that all other arms are auxiliary to it. The importance of artillery cannot be too strongly insisted upon, for, other th