nacing every government except that of the Swiss. Since 1789 the seeds of nationalism had taken root, and watered as they had been by reaction, poverty and despair, the universal problem was no longer one of merely substituting popular for aristocratic rule but of establishing nations which could decide their own destin- ies. It was no longer a question of a change in the form of government but of a change in the national structure. It was not so much the work of men like Rousseau and Voltaire as the work of Fulton and Stephenson which rendered sympathy and similarity of action spontaneous ; for during the forties steamships and railways had begun to link peoples together socially and economically, and not merely intellectually as had done the theories of the philosophers. In England and Russia only the backwash was felt, for the revolution of 1848 was pre-eminently a central European upheaval. In England reforms had in part 50 RETO NATIONALISM TAKES FORM 51 insulated the country against rebellion ; in Russia barbarism was still so prevalent that the people were in place insulated by their ignorance against revolt. And though the Emperor Nicholas I, who had succeeded his brother Alexander I in 1825, was a liberal-minded man, in 1840 anatomical and physiological books were for- bidden to include anything which might hurt the instinct of decency, and, in 1848, newspapers were not allowed to commend inventions " until they had been investigated according to the rules of science,"(1)-whatever these rules may have been. In January, 1848, a popular rising occurred in Palermo, a flash in the pan. Then, suddenly, on February 22, the barrel of European order exploded in France, and two days later the mob sacked the Tuileries. Whereupon Louis Philippe and his queen slipped out of a back door and eventually arrived in England disguised as Mr. and Mrs. Smith. Seldom has a revolution been less bloody to start with. The " right to work " was established as the leading principle o