r the officer class arose, discipline consequently sank. It was the needle gun and not the Prussians which had beaten the Austrians ; give the French soldier a rifle superior to this weapon ; teach him to fire at long ranges ; let the Prussians shatter themselves on this fire, then the valour of the French private soldier would settle the question. Whilst Germany was being fused into one whole by her Custom's Union and the hostility of France, in 1867 the Garibaldians invaded the Roman States, and Napoleon III raised the enmity of Italy by dispatching a French force to eject him. Meanwhile, he aroused the suspicions of Great Britain with his Suez Canal project, and, when this canal was opened in 1869, the British Government saw in it a threat to India and very naturally thought back to the ideals of his uncle in 1798. In place of winning over allies he antagonized all possible friends and this in spite of the fact that his military attaché in Berlin kept him well informed as to the state of the Prussian Army. In 1867 General Trochu tried to open the eyes of the people by publishing a book L'armée française en 1867, in which he pointed out its unpreparedness for war. Then, the following year, on January 2, during a sitting of the Corps Législatif, Marshal Niel proposed drastic military reforms ; whereupon Jules Favre, pacifist and Deputy of Paris, exclaimed, " Vous voulez donc faire de la France une caserne ? " To which the Marshal replied : " Et vous, prenez garde d'en faire un cimetière." Niel died in 1869, and with him died any hope of revitalizing the French Army. RETO CHAPTER VI THE CONSOLIDATION OF GERMANY, 1870-1871 Origins, Mobilization and Plans. Battles and Sieges. The Tactics of 1870-1871. Treaty of Frankfort. ORIGINS, MOBILIZATION AND PLANS THE causes which led to the outbreak of the Franco- Prussian War were obvious to all ; but, as is the custom in European diplomacy, they were not the ones which actually detonated the conflict. France feared the prepon