the war " whether men could be got to advance shoulder to shoulder," and the answer he received was : "No, God don't make men who could stand that." (10) Battles grew more and more prolonged, in truth we shall see nothing like this in 1866, 1870 and 1904. Why ? is not asked, and yet in the answer lies a world of know- ledge. For instance, John Codman Ropes, whose know- ledge of or interest in the war no man can doubt, has but a faint idea of its tactical nature. To him there is no trace of Marlborough, Wellington or Napoleon in Grant's last campaign-" its terribly bloody battles, its encoun- ters of every day . . . the noble trees cut down by musket balls ... the thousands upon thousands of brave men slain and maimed, and, above all, the indecis- ive results, amaze, terrify, repel, dishearten us." And again : " The experience of the Army of the Potomac in the campaign was in fact a new experience for soldiers. Sacrifices were demanded every day of the rank and file of the army which had hitherto been required only occasionally, and then only from those selected for some special post of honour or danger." These things he cannot understand : "To lie in a new-dug rifle-pit a hundred yards from the enemy for several days under constant fire is much like the experience of the engineer 97 troops in a siege. To rush from the rifle-pit upon the enemy's works is the act of a forlorn hope, whose gallant performance is the admiration of a storming column, itself selected for a special and dangerous service. But it is not every day that the sap is pushed forward or the breach assaulted." (11) Why cannot he understand them ? Why does he talk of Marlborough, of Wellington, of new experiences, of rifle-pits, prolonged battles, siege works and indecisive results ? Because he does not understand that the rifle bullet has completely revolutionized tactics. His know- ledge enables him to place his fingers on the pulse of war, yet he cannot count its heart beats, nor can he diagnose it