offensive. This resulted in General Stakelberg and 35,000 men being sent southwards. Entrenching at Telissu, on June 14-15 he was attacked by Oku, who lapping round both his flanks severely defeated him. Pushing on, on July 24, Oku attacked General Zarubayev at Tashichiao, and was repulsed ; this was the first set- back experienced by the Japanese since the initial landings. When once Oku, who had the longer distance to advance, was well on his way, Nozu and Kuroki moved northwards fighting through a mountainous country, and, on August 24, the three armies began the last stage of their converging movement, Marshal Oyama having now taken over supreme command. The Russian position at Liao-yang was a semi-circular one, with the city, now virtually a fortress, in its centre with a series of entrenchments stretching round it on its southern side, and their flanks resting on the river Tai-tzu. Oyama's plan, which was an exceedingly bold one, was to attack the western flank of the Russian position, and, under cover of a series of fierce assaults, advance the First Army across the Tai-tzu river east of the city, turn the enemy's left flank and fall upon his rear and so win a second Sedan. Gaining information of this movement, Kuropatkin withdrew to Liao-yang in order to shorten his front and so collect sufficient reserves with which to counter- attack Kuroki, who was now separated from the Second and Fourth Armies and had his back to the river. This withdrawal was completed on September Ist ; where- upon, having collected 90,000 men, Kuropatkin delivered his counter-stroke, which after fighting of the severest nature was repulsed. Learning of a renewed attack on  RET LAST OF WARS OF EXPANSION 176 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION his right, the Russian Commander-in-Chief's resolution collapsed, and he ordered a general retreat on Mukden. Liao-yang was in every sense of the word a great battle, and far more so than those which followed it during the remainder of 1904, the most im