shed in Europe in 1815, and from about this date, as we shall see in Chapter V, Prussia began to set her military house in order and to prepare for the worst. TACTICAL INVENTIONS From the military point of view this war was remark- able for several reasons. Chloroform was used for the first time. And the Press began to exert an influence which made statesmen and generals tremble. It was the Press in England which clamoured for the siege of Sebastopol, thus stirring the imagination of the people and in turn influencing the Government. For the first time in the history of war newspaper correspondents accom- panied the army to the front ; and as witnesses of the appalling condition of the hospitals and the insufficiency of the supply services there can be no doubt they were instrumental in forcing a change. As regards the art of war there is little to learn from this campaign. Generalship was beneath contempt, leadership was of a low order and tactics were prehistoric. The powers of the Minié rifle, though unmistakable, 73 were almost entirely misapplied by the English and the French and the old musket equally so by the Russians ; all three of them relying on the bayonet and shock tactics. As of old, column met line; and though attacks started as orderly movements, the ground and the fire soon broke them up into groups of men under little or no control. (5) More interesting than tactics are the developments which began to take place in armaments, developments which did not attain maturity for sixty years. Amongst them are the suggested introduction of armour, and the use of lethal gas and the submarine. As early as 1837 Jomini, after recounting the terrible destruction wrought by military inventions, said : " If Governments do not combine in a congress to proscribe these inventions of destruction, there will be no course left but to make the half of an army consist of cavalry with cuirasses, in order to capture with great rapidity these machines ; and the infantry, eve