esolutely." " The purpose of discipline " is not obedience, but " to make men fight in spite of themselves." Instinct is not to be killed, but to be cultivated, because " War, so long as man risks his skin in it, will always be a matter of instinct." In its cultivation man must be taught how to be alert and " alive "-" The less mobile the troops, the deadlier are battles." As regards weapons, he says : " Does war become deadlier with the improvement of weapons ? " And he answers this question with " Not at all"; which is true, and why ? Because " Modern weapons have a terrible effect and are almost unbearable by the nervous system " ; that is to say : Their moral effect is so great that man fearing to face them reduces their physical  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 156 RET MYTHS AND REALITIES effect by shunning them ; consequently, as the bullet keeps the attacker at arm's length, " bayonet attacks are not so easily made to-day." As regards shock tactics he writes : " Guilbert says that shock actions are infinitely rare. The moral impulse which estimates the attacker is everything. The moral impulse lies in the perception by the enemy of the resolution that animates you. They say that the battle of Amstetten was the only one in which a line actually waited for the shock of another line charging with the bayonets." Then his French temperament and his studies of Classical warfare carry him away ; he says : "This moral effect must be a terrible thing. A body advances to meet another. The defender has only to remain calm, ready to aim, each man pitted against a man before him. The attacking body comes within deadly range. Whether or not it halts to fire, it will be a target for the other body which awaits it, calm, ready, sure of its effects. The whole first rank of the assailant falls, smashed. The remainder, little encouraged by their reception, disperse automatically or before the least indication of an advance on them. Is this what happens ? Not at all ! The moral eff