ute that Saxon and Hanoverian troops marched into Holstein. Here was Bismarck's opportunity. He persuaded Austria to join Prussia and restore peace : This action led to the Schleswig-Holstein war of 1864, which, in October, was concluded by the Treaty of Vienna, putting the Duchies under the joint control of Austria and Prussia. Bismarck knew well what he was doing. Schleswig- Holstein would become a bone of contention, and in order to prepare for the inevitable war with Austria he sought Italy as an ally. Napoleon III stood in the way ; so he promised him a free hand in Belgium, or part of the Rhinish Provinces, if he in his turn would persuade Austria to sell Venetia to Italy, which he knew Austria would refuse to do. Simultaneously, in order to annoy Austria Bismarck reopened the question of German federation. As Austria would not part with Venetia, 103 a treaty of offensive and defensive alliance was signed by Italy and Prussia on April 8, 1866 ; whereupon, trouble arising in Schleswig-Holstein, to detach Italy, Austria offered to cede Venetia, but it was now too late. Seeing the gathering storm approaching, Louis Napo- leon, believing that the time had come to obliterate the treaties of 1815, was ready to join Prussia with 300,000 men in return for the Rhinish Provinces. Bismarck, having no intention whatever of parting with them, in order to precipitate the conflict now that Italy was an ally, ordered troops into Holstein, whereupon Austria broke off diplomatic relations on June 12. The war which now took place is one of exceptional interest. It was not a war of aggression in the common meaning of the word, nor a war of conquest, but a war of diplomacy-of rectification. The object of Prussia was not to humiliate Austria or even to weaken her, but to persuade her that the spirit of nationalism in Germany was a living growing force which demanded unity. Strategically the war was interesting, because Austria was a veteran military Power, whilst, excepting the Dan