ar Plan of reconstruction. In America no radical change has as yet been attempted. Meanwhile the world- dominion idea has grown very thin ; the Russian ideal being now limited to the hegemony of Asia, and the American to that of economic control of the New World. We thus, to-day, see two great groups of nations forming, one in the East and one in the West, still very inarticulate and amorphous, yet casting shadows which can clearly be analysed. In between the jaws of this Capitalist-Communist nut- cracker is wedged Europe, the true Europe, that continent which stretches from the Atlantic to the Vistula. As ever, this tract of land is divided between what may be called Latin and Teutonic culture, the dividing line being roughly the Rhine and the Danube.  262 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION Behind the economic and political factors which gave birth to the World War stands unseen this cultural urge. The struggle between Rome and the barbarians, between the Papacy and the Holy Roman Empire, between Catholicism and Protestantism and finally between the two cultures begotten of all this struggling. Into this mixture of oil and water were poured by Woodrow Wilson and Lenin the acids of two universal leagues. For America to become a world power, it was essential that the European war system should be destroyed, for civil wars are incompatible with trading ; for Russia to become so, it was essential to destroy the European peace system which was hostile to Communism ; yet both overlooked this fact : that the vitality of the cultural struggle in Europe was far deeper rooted than the new- born ideals to which these two great groups of Powers aspired. Two thousand years of conflict have produced an extremely hard shell. Europe is not a nut to be cracked easily ; yet the pressure which is being exerted upon her from East and West must in time produce an effect upon her kernel, for if this nut be not altogether hollow, this pressure may so consolidate European fear that it may bring