e are unrealized by the masses of the people, for common man is too simple and indolent to unravel diplomatic tangles. The masses do not notice such " coincidents " as that on the day upon which the American Senate, by ratifying the Pact of Paris, outlawed war, it agreed upon the construction of new cruisers. They are amazed and dazed by emotion- stirring figures. Thus when the Disarmament Con- ference assembled at Geneva in February, 1932, the people were told that it represented 64 countries, that it was to be attended by 2,400 delegates and experts, 500 journalists and that the two conference rooms had an area of 13,000 square feet. " Assembled here," said Mr. Henderson, " are the chosen spokesmen of seventeen hundred million people. There is no human being, whether his home is in one of the great centres of industry and population, in the deserts of Africa, in the jungles of the East, or amid the ice of the Arctic regions, who has not some one here to speak in his name." (6) Think of that ! The people are enthralled, quantity always " gets " them ; numbers stupefy their imagination with the drug of emotionalism, and the result is that reason vanishes. (6) What happened at this Conference ? The Russian delegate proposed total disarmament, obviously to foster the proletarian revolution ; the French suggested an international police force under the League of Nations, obviously to control Germany ; the British suggested the abolition of the use of gas, submarines, and bombing from the air, obviously to get back to the insular security of 1914 ; the American suggested the abolition of tanks, heavy mobile guns and gases, obviously because, if granted sufficient time, the United States can build and produce these weapons during war, and, should other nations 251 possess them on the outbreak of war, time wherein to manufacture them will be insufficient ; (7) and the Italian agreed as Italy lacks coal and oil, consequently the Italian army dreads mechanization. It will b