pied an old. They, like the French, German, Russian and Austrian, were prepared for war. But what kind of war ? That was the question. TRADITIONAL WARFARE The war opened on sound, traditional lines. The armed herds and hordes of men had for over forty years browsed in the lush pastures of pseudo-1866's and 1870's. and were swollen with the wind of the unlimited offensive which involved unlimited slaughter. Two tremendous fallacies underlay this doctrine. The first was that policy is best enforced by destruction, and the second was that tactical strength is founded upon numbers. To the General Staffs of Europe war was an end in itself and not a means to an end. We cannot really blame them for this outlook, for if Clausewitz is right in saying that war is a continuation of national policy, had not the foreign policies of nations since 1871 been in the main destructive of international interdependence in order to foster national independence ? Yet from 1871 onwards a new civilization had arisen in Europe, woven on the enormous growth of railways and the facilities rendered possible by the motor-car and the lorry. Soldiers had studied these means, not in order to mechanize armies, that is to replace muscular power by mechanical power, but to utilize them in such a way that they could submerge their enemy's frontiers under a veritable inundation of flesh. Millions of men would sweep forward and, like immense clouds of locusts, would gain victory by sheer weight of numbers. Such was the cloistered-theory of the generals ; but 227 the private soldiers, the men who fight in the field lands and not in the studies, held another view-an unwritten, even unthought, and, therefore, instinctive doctrine. It was this : The supreme duty of the soldier is to fight and not to die. The military monks, though they swung incense before the moral factors, were so immersed in the scholasticism of dead wars that they forgot that the soldiers who were to fight in the next war were living bei