the time, whereas you [the Prussians] are always ready to fire." (3) Against the massed Austrian formations protected by few skirmishers, its effects were terrible. Åt the battle of Nachod the Prussian advanced guard, six and a half battalions, held back twenty-one Austrian battalions for  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION 108 RET RISE OF PRUSSIA two hours and inflicted five times their own losses on them. At Trautenau it was much the same, for though the Austrians were successful they lost four times as many men as the Prussians. Again at Königgrätz, though for seventeen hours Benedek fought on the defensive with odds of five to three in his favour, yet the Austrians lost 18,000 killed and wounded to the Prussian 9,000. Of Trautenau Friedjung writes : " Seldom in military history has it happened that combatants who lost three or four times as heavily as their adversaries were yet victorious. This alone shows that it would have been impossible to go on fighting with the muzzle-loader against the needle gun; in victory as well as in defeat the Austrians always lost three or four times as many men as the Prussians, while their rapidity of fire was by the same proportion less." (4) Though the needle gun is quite sufficient to account for the failure of the Austrian cavalry, it must not be overlooked that against infantry its terrible effects were largely due to the excellence of the Prussian musketry training and minor tactics. Nevertheless in combined tactics the Prussians had much to learn. Their General Staff had studied the 1859 campaign with respect to infantry, but they had failed to take any notice whatever of the French artillery tactics. " The theory of making use of forces piece by piece, until the last intact reserve is reached [the methodical attack], with all its con- sequences, amongst which may be especially noted the splitting up of the artillery and the employment of the artillery mass for the first time in the final act of decision, was considered as the o