th, and one which must lead to war. For a hundred and fifty years Europe had been endeavouring to deprive Kings and Governments of the right to make peace and war, and it was " thought that with the coming of an era in which war should depend on the people's will, peace would prevail throughout the world." (9) The exact opposite was the case. In Italy popular opinion caused the Tripoli War of 1911 ; in the Balkans popular opinion caused the Balkan War of 1912-1913 ; and it was popular opinion, and above all the German, which caused the World War, not in August 1914, but from Sedan onwards. Debts reacting upon policy, from about 1910 until the outbreak of the war Germany was haunted by fear of bankruptcy. To keep solvent she borrowed heavily. Though interest was high, for a time she got what she wanted. Then came rumours of war and France ceased to lend. In October 1911, she required 300,000,000 francs, which, had it not been for the Agadir incident, France would have let her have at 3 or 4 per cent. ; but France would not lend them, so she turned to America who loaned them to her at 6 or 7 per cent. (10) Thus she plunged towards the abyss, and as Mr. Fullerton writes in 1913 : " There are . . . many indications that the German rulers may eventually come to regard a war as the sole solution for the life and death economic problems with which they are confronted." (11) The misfortune of Germany and of the world was that the industrial revolution came to her late. Had it come  192 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET TURMOIL OF THE NATIONS to her when it came to Great Britain there would have been no World War as we know it ; again, had there been no coal in Germany, Germany as we know her to-day would not exist. THE POLITICAL FOREGROUND Bearing in mind this economic background, the understanding of which renders intelligible the shadow- show which was played upon it, we will examine the political foreground and see the outline of what was taking place there. Germany wante