e 1898, when M. Delcassé was appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs, a more friendly feeling was shown towards England. During the South African War no advance could be made, but shortly after its ending, as an answer to the German naval threat, King Edward VII, who had succeeded to the throne on January 22, 1901, visited Paris and by his charm and astuteness won the hearts of the French. A return visit to London was made by President Loubet, and a bargain having been arranged over the Egyptian and Morocco questions, a definite entente was established in 1904. This understanding shattered the German policy of setting France and England at loggerheads, so Germany turned to Russia. On July 23, 1905, a meeting took place between the Kaiser and the Czar at Bjorko, and the following day, on board the Hohenzollern, William, in order to establish a coalition against England, persuaded Nicholas to sign a secret treaty pledging that " if any European State shall attack either Power the other will aid with all its forces." Nicholas was to make these terms known to France and " invite her to sign it as an ally."(3) The Czar's ministers were astounded when they discovered what had taken place, and the treaty was scrapped because it was obvious that France would never agree to an alliance with Germany, as this would carry with it a recognition of the settlement made under the Treaty of Frankfort. Great Britain then turned to Russia and an arrange- ment was arrived at in which the outstanding difficulties over Tibet, Afghanistan and Persia were settled. Thus was a Triple Entente established to face the Triple Alliance. As Mr. Gooch says : " The two parties- Great Britain and Japan on the one side, Russia and France  186 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET TURMOIL OF THE NATIONS on the other-had now made friends. Russia had no longer to think of the perils of the Far East, and could turn her undivided attention to the even more dangerous game of European politics."(4) This year Franc