refore turn towards the flanks of the enemy's position." (11) The chaos of Königgrätz had terrified him, but the success of the great flank attack had elated him. Whilst Napoleon Bonaparte's idea had been " concentration before battle," masses had brought him to realize that he must " concentrate during battle." Further, he had learnt that the frontal attack could seldom be developed into a decisive attack. Even in 1861 he had considered that infantry were unassailable in front and he had compared an open plain to a wet ditch which cannot be rushed. Now he realized fully that a man who shoots at rest has the advantage over the man who fires advancing. The French also in part realized this. In their 1867 Regulations we read, " Fire has to-day acquired a preponderating effect on the battlefield," therefore frontal attacks are always dangerous, con- sequently the advantage is on the side of the defence ; yet we also read : When close to the enemy, there should be no fire, only " a determined advance to close on the enemy with the bayonet." (12) The main difference between Prussian and French military thought was that the one was founded on the solid rock of Clausewitz, whilst the other was built on the shifting sands of many opinions,-experiences in Algeria, the Crimea, China, Italy and Mexico, none of  WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION II2 which was analysed and lack of analysis led to a " valour of ignorance." The French army was professional, not national, its General Staff was a permanent organization cut away from regimental life. As Boguslawski says : " the officers loafed about immensely." (13) In 1859, the general opinion in the ranks was " c'est le général soldat qui a gagné la bataille de Solferino." The valour of the man replaced the brains of his leader, contempt for the officer class arose, discipline consequently sank. It was the needle gun and not the Prussians which had beaten the Austrians ; give the French soldier a rifle superior to this weapon ; teach hi