een appreciated to-day, that the fighting power of an army is the product and not the sum of the arms composing it. GERMAN AND FRENCH REACTION Every war is a grim reality, and tactically every modern war, that is a war since 1850, has been a war of surprises. The leading lesson of 1870-71 was the stupendous importance of fire power. Meckel, an acute observer, said : " The foundations of success in the infantry combat consists in fire action, but the laurels of victory still hover on the points of the bayonets." (2) Fire power for full development means manœuvre and control ; manœuvre demanding intel- ligence and sound tactical handling on the part of the subordinate leaders, and control, intelligence and strategical insight on the part of their commanders. As armies grew in size, as they did during these years, numbers demanded simplicity and intelligence was obscured by method. After the 1866 war a writer had said that " the correct course for infantry to follow was to fight in future 'like a horde of savages !'" (3) What he really meant was, in controlled and intelligent disorder. But disorder is antipathetic to the pro- fessional soldier, especially to the German ; and even in 1871, before Paris had fallen, " the Germans were drilling in their spare hours with redoubled intensity," (4) and immediately after the war, William I, not liking the loose order as it was difficult to control, in the revised 15I German Drill Book of 1873 did his utmost to discourage it. As masses of men in close order can move only forwards or backwards, Scherff, in 1872, to overcome, as he thought, the complexities of command, established a most pernicious maxim, namely : "You can never be too strong when making an attack," a maxim which, as we have seen, was exposed as a dangerous fallacy during the Crimean War. Then he added : " An attack made with only part of your force at once awakens the idea of the possibility of non-success," (5) as if to provide against mishap were a detriment i