r Egypt and the French- Italian quarrel over Tunis. Italy now turned to Germany and Austria, and on May 20, 1882, a Triple Alliance was established between the three countries. By 1883 Bismarck's policy had won through. The Triple Alliance had been established, England was friendly, and the Dreikaiserbund had been revived. Then came the first set-back. In November, 1885, Serbia attacked Bulgaria and was badly beaten at the battle of Slivnitza. Russia next stepped into the turmoil, her aim being to bring the divided Slav peoples of the Balkans under her influence. This at once started a quarrel with Austria, and led to the disruption of the Dreikaiserbund ; whereupon Russia, finding herself thwarted and isolated, in the summer of 1886 began to consider a Franco- Russian rapprochement. Bismarck scenting a rat, relations between Germany and France became strained, and in I39 1887 war appeared imminent. The next year the old Emperor William I died, and was succeeded by Frederick III who in his turn was succeeded by William II on June 15. Two years later the young Kaiser failing to see eye to eye with the old Chancellor dismissed him, and took personal charge of affairs. Then, in 1891, the French fleet visited Cronstadt, in 1893 the Russian fleet visited Toulon, and in 1895 an alliance between France and Russia was announced. The fall of Bismarck and the rise of William II in his stead introduced a disturbing factor into European politics. The one stood for the establishment of German supremacy in Europe, the other for German supremacy in the world. This change in outlook was inevitable, and it was due not to any personal idiosyncracy on the part of the young Emperor, but to the fact that because Germany was rapidly becoming industrialized she was rapidly becoming a world power. Psychologically this change was strongly fostered during the eighties and nineties by the writings of Nietzsche and Treitschke who created a new Germanic spirit, which soon found its politico-eco