the war were that Austria lost her Venetian encumbrance and had to pay an indemnity of £6,000,000 ; Victor Emmanuel gained RETO RISE OF PRUSSIA 107 the whole of Italy less Rome, and William I annexed Hanover, Hesse-Cassel, Nassau and the free city of Frankfort, and established a federal parliament which assembled in Berlin in 1869. Meanwhile, a political party, the National Liberal, was formed. It demanded the union of south and north Germany. Such a fusion, in spite of a customs parliament now agreed upon by these two groups of States, would have taken a long time to effect had not the folly of the French Emperor brought such outward pressure to bear on the whole of Germany as to render it inevitable. He did exactly what Bismarck calculated he would do. Even before the signing of the Treaty of Prague he claimed the left bank of the Rhine in com- pensation for Prussia's gain in power, and this idea still obsessed him. The result was that fear of France threw the Southern States into the arms of the Northern, and a secret offensive and defensive alliance under the command of the King of Prussia was agreed upon. " A common war against a common enemy now appeared the surest means of welding the dissevered halves of Germany together, and for this war Bismarck steadily prepared." (2) LESSONS OF THE SEVEN WEEKS' WAR Though in war the moral to the physical may, as Napoleon said, be three to one, it must never be for- gotten that the physical is the foundation of the moral, for it is weapon-power which creates fear. In 1866 this is clearly seen in the influence of the needle gun. " Our men," says an Austrian Colonel, fear ". . . the quick and easy loading the needle gun gives you ; it is this which demoralizes them. In action they feel them- selves disarmed the greater part of the time, whereas you [the Prussians] are always ready to fire." (3) Against the massed Austrian formations protected by few skirmishers, its effects were terrible. Åt the battle of Nachod the Prussia