d place myself in an armchair on the poop, with each leg on a cushion, I will undertake to subdue every insular fortification at Cronstadt within four hours from the commencement of the attack," and Sebastopol could be as easily captured, he urged, " if I am allowed to put my plans in execution." To the possible objection of inhumanity, he wrote : "No conduct that brought to a speedy termination a war which might otherwise last for years, and be attended by terrible bloodshed in numerous battles, could be called inhuman, and that the most powerful means of averting all future war would be the introduction of a method of fighting which, rendering all vigorous defence impossible, would frighten every nation from running the risk of warfare at all." (0) Though the scheme was not tried out, Dundonald predicted that gas as a weapon " would ultimately become a recognized means of warfare." (10) His day is not even yet. The third of the "modern " weapons of war, the submarine, also predates this period. In 1776 Bushnell invented a submersible vessel which he called The Turtle ; in 1797 Fulton invented another, and a scheme was even suggested to rescue Napoleon from St. Helena by an under-water boat. (11) During the war in the Crimea Bauer, a German, built a large submarine which he called the Diable Marin and offered it to Russia. This is how this strange vessel arrived : " In May, 1856, Bauer set out in his submarine for the harbour of the fortress [Kronstadt] ; he was aided in his approach by a 75 very thick fog. The sentry on duty on the pier was amazed to see, emerging from the fog, a curious kind of vessel, of which only a small portion was discernible, and upon it stood a figure. At once the sentry challenged the stranger, and, to his amaze- ment received in return the correct answer. This was altogether too much for the poor fellow, and throwing away his rifle, he ran from the ghostly visitant." (12) It is strange to think that here in the first conflict of this new