evile his work. It was declared that the railway would prevent cows grazing, hens laying, and would cause ladies to give premature birth to children at " the sight of these things going forward at the rate of four and a half miles an hour." For many years steam-power did not influence the Army as it did the Navy, though the sailor, like the civilian, did not want to be influenced. In 1832 there were actually nine small steamships on the Navy List ; but the Admiralty was not interested in steam-power outside laying down a regulation that " on no account are ratings to be allowed to place their clothes in the boiler when it is under steam." Should a flue get choked, then the method advocated for clearing it was "to fire a musket up the funnel ! "(1) In 1828, when the Colonial Office asked the Admiralty for a steamer to convey mails from Malta to the Ionian Islands, the fol- lowing reply was received : Their lordships " felt it their bounden duty to discourage to the utmost of their ability the employment of steam vessels, as they considered that the introduction of steam was calculated to strike a fatal blow to the naval supremacy of the Empire."(2) From Dundonald we learn that the same outlook prevailed in 1834.(3) "Give me," he often said, " a fast small steamer, with a heavy long-range gun in the bow, and another in the hold to fall back upon, and I would not hesitate to attack the largest ship afloat. . . . As large a gun as possible in a vessel as small and swift as 39 possible, and as many of them as you can put upon the sea."(4) Such was the outlook of this remarkable man, born half a century before his time. In spite of reaction, England was the only country which was even partially industrialized during the thirties. In Prussia advance was painfully slow. In 1837 her total machinery was under 10,000 horse-power, and in 1846 not more than 22,000. In France, in this last-mentioned year, more than half the French pig-iron was still smelted by charcoal, and there