political and social evils has been shaken ; the blots on our economic and moral order have been relentlessly drawn to light ; self-com- placency is no longer fashionable ; it is more popular to decry than to praise the world in which we live. The consolations of religion have for the moment lost their efficacy in large sections of the European population. The zeal of the young and ardent is thrown into schemes of social regeneration. Such schemes are everywhere, whether they take the form of personal work among the poor and the sick, or trades-union politics, or visions of progressive legislation moving step by step towards an improved society, or propaganda leading up to the social revolution and common ownership of all land, machinery and productive organization ; or the blind schemes of murder and destruction nursed in garrets and basements by the half-mad apostles of militant Anarchism. All these schemes alike are materialistic in their aims ; their kingdom is of this world; they seek for no spiritual compensations, they admit no spiritual rapture ; their professors represent all grades between the extreme of self-devotion and the culmination of hate, envy and greed. But the belief in the possibility of social reform by conscious effort is the most dominant in the modern European mind ; it has superseded the old belief in Liberty as the one panacea ; even Bismarck paid homage to it ; and no modern statesman can afford to ignore it. Its substantial achievements, and perhaps its disappointments, are in the future ; but its currency in the present is as significant and as pregnant as the belief in the Rights of Man about the time of the French Revolu- tion." (9) Thus we approached the end of one age and slowly emerge into the beginnings of another. An age drab and dull, under the pall of a leaden sky lit here and there by the flicker of distant lightning. An age which awaits the storm, possibly the cyclone. THE RUSSO-TURKISH WAR OF 1877-78 Before ending this chapt