nventions of destruction, there will be no course left but to make the half of an army consist of cavalry with cuirasses, in order to capture with great rapidity these machines ; and the infantry, even, will be obliged to resume its armour of the Middle Ages, without which a battalion will be destroyed before engaging the enemy. We may then see again the famous men-at-arms all covered with armour, and horses also will require the same protection." (6) Such a suggestion was useless without mechanical power, and such became possible when, during the Crimean War, Boydel steam engines fitted with footed wheels were sent out to negotiate the Balaklava mud. There can be little doubt that these traction engines suggested the idea of an armoured fighting machine to James Cowen, a philanthropist of this period, for he urged Lord Palmerston to use armoured traction engines fitted with scythes. " Like the Assyrian and British chariots their purpose was to mow a lane through the enemy infantry. This idea was, however, rejected as it was considered to be too barbarous." (7) The suggestion of the use of lethal gas as a weapon is an even more interesting one. On May 12, 1812, the Earl of Dundonald placed a plan before Lord Melville  RETO WAR PERIOD OPENS 74 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION for " a new and most formidable method of attacking and destroying an enemy's fleet . . . such a mode of attack would be irresistible, and the effect of the power and means proposed, infallible." (8) His idea was to gas out the enemy's ships. Nothing came of this pro- posal ; but forty-two years later, in July 1854, he once again submitted his " secret plan " to Sir James Graham, First Lord of the Admiralty. His covering letter is worth quoting ; he says : "Were it necessary-which it is not-that I should place myself in an armchair on the poop, with each leg on a cushion, I will undertake to subdue every insular fortification at Cronstadt within four hours from the commencement of the attack," and S