ed fatal. Out of the 86 men totally blinded during the war only 4 were blinded by gas, and " in the year 1918 there were one and a half times as many cases of tuberculosis per thousand among all American troops in France as there were amongst those gassed." (8) On July 12, 1917, the Germans made use of mustard gas, a chemical which burnt the skin in place of attacking the blood or the lungs. Few died from its effects, but thousands were incapacitated for months on end. Here,  236 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RE CHANGING NATURE OF WAR curious to relate, is to be discovered the true power of gas as a weapon-it can incapacitate without killing. A dead man says nothing, and, when once buried, is no encumbrance to the survivors. A wounded man will spread the wildest of rumours, will exaggerate dangers, foster panic, and requires the attention of others to heal him-until he dies or is cured, he is a military encum- brance and a demoralizing agent. Gas is the weapon of demoralization, it can terrorize without killing. More than any other weapon known it can economically enforce the policy of one nation upon another. If gas is the weapon of future warfare, as Lord Dun- donald believed it to be, the aeroplane is its natural vehicle, because the limiting factor in gas projection is wind ; it cannot be propelled against the wind, but it can be dropped from an aeroplane, so that from whatever direction the wind is blowing it can be carried in the desired direction. Though aeroplanes had been used in Mexico and Tripoli before the outbreak of the World War, it was only during this war that aircraft were first used to bombard industrial centres and cities and so carry the war into the heart of the enemy's country and strike at the very foundations of his military power-the civil will. Here was a means of not only attacking the war makers them- selves, but of establishing a condition of treachery which was likely to prove overwhelming. This method of attack, a method endowed with t