d to fall back on the Mincio. On July 25 he was again defeated at Custozza and the Austrians entered Milan. But Radetzky, fearing the intervention of France and Great Britain, in place of marching on Turin, on August 9, at Vigevano, agreed to an armistice ; yet the effects of his triumph were felt in every province in Europe. (6) 55 This armistice was, however, but a lull in the storm ; for the Austrian military tyranny in Lombardy was so brutal that, on March 19, 1849, Charles Albert once again took the field, and five days later, having been decisively beaten at Novara, he abdicated his crown in favour of his son Victor Emmanuel, and shortly afterwards died a broken-hearted man. Yet Cavour remained, and was to prove himself worthy to take his place among that small brotherhood of the elect -- the men of destiny. Meanwhile Hungary burst into flames; then the Czechs in Bohemia who, ever since 1820, had been bent on reviving their language followed suit. Next the Serbs in southern Hungary took up arms, and so also did the Croats in Croatia, where Colonel Jellacic the Ban, or Governor, at once deposed all the Hungarian officials. On September 11, 1848, he crossed the Drave and marched on Pesth, whereupon the Palatine took command of the Hungarian army and, on October 3, the Emperor declared the Hungarian Parliament dissolved. This led to a recurrence of revolution in Vienna which for the time being saved the Hungarians. Prince Felix Schwartzenberg then became head of the new Austrian Government which forthwith deposed the Emperor Ferdinand and offered the crown to his nephew Francis Joseph-a boy of eighteen. Hungary, refusing to acknowledge him, summoned the entire Magyar peoples to arms. This resulted in General Windischgrätz, in command of the main Austrian army, occupying Pesth, on January 5, 1849 ; but in place of putting an end to the war he was driven out of Hungary and, on April 19, this country declared its independence. Instead of marching on Vienna the Hunga