d, the understanding of which renders intelligible the shadow- show which was played upon it, we will examine the political foreground and see the outline of what was taking place there. Germany wanted markets ; Germany was powerful ; Germany was arrogant. Her Weltpolitik had intoxicated her people ; they wanted to make history as well as to make trade. In the trade-war Germany was being slowly encircled by a yearly strengthening of the hostile tariff walls, and behind this encirclement she saw political encirclement in the formation of the Anglo-British Entente, and being a good disciple of Clausewitz she realized that the army of France and the navy of Great Britain were political instruments. Her first problem was, consequently, to disrupt this Entente, to separate Great Britain and France who, as she thought, were held together only politically by their mutual agreement over Egypt and Morocco. France had agreed to respect the integrity of Morocco, but this country was in anarchy, and, in 1904, France sent a mission to Fez. Germany was annoyed, but she waited until the Russian defeat was complete, and then, on March 31 of the following year, the Kaiser visited Tangier in order to " safeguard " German interests in Morocco. In place of achieving the German aim of separation, this visit strengthened the Entente, and in January, 1906, led to the Conference of Algeciras which Reventlow considered a German defeat. Anarchy continuing, in 1911 once again French troops were sent to Fez : whereupon Germany, declaring that the Treaty of Algeciras had been infringed, sent a small 193 warship, the Panther, to Agadir. This action aroused Downing Street, and on July 21 Mr. Lloyd George, Chancellor of the Exchequer, hurled a bomb-shell into the German camp. He said : " I conceive that nothing would justify a disturbance of international good-will except questions of the gravest national moment. But if a situation were to be forced upon us in which peace could only be preserved b