za or under the walls of Rome." (20) As Cavour found it impossible to establish an alliance with England he somewhat reluctantly turned to France. Louis Napoleon wanted to regain Savoy and Nice, which had been incorporated by the French between 1792-1814; he also wanted Belgium and the Rhine provinces so as to re-establish the Rhine-Alps frontier. In the summer of 1858 he and Cavour met at Plombières where it was arranged that : (I) Piedmont should pick a quarrel with Austria. (2) France should act as her ally.  80 RETO WAR PERIOD OPENS WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION (3) Austria should be expelled from Venetia and Lombardy. (4) Victor Emmanuel should become King of Northern Italy. (5) The remainder of Italy, less the Papal States, should constitute the kingdom of Central Italy. (6) These two kingdoms with Naples and Rome should form an Italian Confederation under the Pope. (7) France was to receive Savoy and possibly Nice also. In January, 1859, Napoleon III antagonized Austria by saying that he regretted that the relationship between the two countries was not so good as heretofore ; and Victor Emmanuel started the ball rolling by saying that he could no longer be insensible to the sufferings of his countrymen. Austria demanded that Sardinia should disarm, and as Victor Emmanuel refused, on April 30 the Austrian troops under Gyulai crossed the Ticino. THE FRANCO-ITALIAN WAR OF 1859 Gyulai was a most indifferent general. Instead of pushing on and attacking the Sardinians before the French could support them, he dawdled about ; and the saying that " he who does not know what he wants yet feels that he must do something, appeases his conscience by a reconnaissance in force " is applicable to his first action, on May 20, at Montebello. "There, Count Stadion, not knowing what to reconnoitre, engaged fractions of his corps, 24,000 strong, against 8,000 French, and was severely beaten. Gyulai then fell back towards the Quadrilateral. Louis Napoleon followed him up and a batt