hilst after Auerstädt the troops went for two days without provisions because to requisition from the peasants would have been a " system of robbery ... unknown in the Prussian army, and repugnant to its spirit." As late as 1813 we find Sir Humphrey Davy and Michael Faraday visiting France, Switzerland, Italy and the Tyrol. In Paris they are entertained by French scientists-Ampère, Clement and Desormes, yet it never occurred to any of these men that because their countries were at war there was a lack of patriotism in such a visit. In 1914-18 scientists anathematized each other roundly, the enemy's language was banned from the schools, and even his music was placed under interdict. In 1832 Marshal Gérard and 60,000 French troops marched on Antwerp, the citadel of which was held by the Dutch under General Chassé. In order to spare the citizens the horrors of war, Chassé agreed to direct the fire of his guns on the open plains only if Gérard would agree to approach in no other direction. This plan was decided upon. " Rarely, if ever, was a siege conducted with so much chivalry and courtesy. . The stipulations regarding the neutrality of the city and the restrictions of the line of fire of both parties are note- worthy, and so well were they carried out that not a single non-combatant beyond the lines was harmed in person or property."(21) Exactly one hundred years later, what do we see ? The crowded city of Shanghai is bombarded and then bombed from the air ! NAPOLEON AS TACTICIAN Lastly, I will turn from the discussion of the nature of war to that of war as an art ; for unless the Napoleonic  30 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RETO FOUNDATIONS OF NATIONALISM method of fighting is in part understood much which follows in this book will be incomprehensible. His weapon was the flintlock musket, with an effective range of about 100 yards and a maximum range of 300. It could be fired twice a minute, and each man carried with him into battle 60 rounds of ammunition. His field