en other means fail. . . . The mutual mistrust between nations even makes all proposals of disarmament exceedingly suspicious." (14) So writes General von der Goltz, and very similarly writes Mr. Fullerton. He says : " . . . the clamour of the populace . . . armed by the humanitarianism of our special form of Christian civilization, possesses, in the devices of universal suffrage and parliamentary government, sure instruments for the immediate and frequently selfish utilization of the wealth of the community, and for the satisfaction of party interests and class appetites in injudicious and often anti-national ways." (15) All this evolved out of the French Revolution, which also gave to the world conscription-herd warfare, and the herd coupling with finance and commerce has begotten new realms of war. For when once the whole nation fights, then is the whole national credit available for the purposes of war. Lastly comes the Press and breathes into this monstrous organization the breath of lying fury. Under Frederick the Great it took two years and cost a hundred pounds to train a soldier ; under Napoleon it  28 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RETO FOUNDATIONS OF NATIONALISM took two months and a handful of francs. Guibert, who lived in between these two epochs, once again dipped his pen into prophetic ink. He wrote : "The standing armies, while a burden on the people, are inadequate for the achievement of great and decisive results in war, and meanwhile the masses of the people, untrained in arms, degenerate. . . . The hegemony over Europe will fall to that nation which .. . becomes possessed of manly virtues and creates a national army."(16) In Guibert's days officers were recruited " from the perfumed selections made in the boudoirs of the Pompa- dours and the Dubarrys," (17) and even towards the end of the eighteenth century European sentiment " held the soldier as a useless unproductive drone," (18) Sir Walter Elliot remarking-" The profession [the Navy in this cas