t, it tingled in the finger-tips of Europe, then these fingers fashioned something which was monstrous to behold, not a graven image but a veritable abortion. On Septem- ber 26, 1815, two months before the second Treaty of Paris was signed, Alexander of Russia, a religious fanatic, persuaded the Emperor of Austria and the King of Prussia to sign with him, " In the name of the Most Holy and Indivisible Trinity," a treaty named " The Holy Alliance." Metternich called it " loud-sounding noth- ing," and Castlereagh " a piece of sublime mysticism and nonsense." It was both, and to it may be traced turmoil and revolution from then onwards to 1849. The " blessings which it has pleased Divine Providence to shower down " on the conquering States were to be rendered permanent, while the spirit of awakened nationalism was to be suppressed. The principles of rule were to be those of " Holy Religion .. . Justice, Christian Charity and Peace." Princes were to look upon themselves as delegates of Providence, and the peoples were to be brought to realize this and exercise " the duties which the Divine Saviour has taught to mankind." Later on the Kings of Naples and Sardinia, Louis XVIII and Ferdinand of Spain subscribed to this treaty. In England the Prince Regent refused to do so, and the only two potentates who received no invitation were the Pope and the Sultan of Turkey ! In the West the answer to this sublime nonsense was the establishment of the " Monroe Doctrine " on December 2, 1823. REACTION AND REVOLUTION The Holy Alliance and all it stood for, narrowness, stupidity and reaction, poured as it was into the still open wounds of a mangled continent, burnt in like a 23 corroding acid. We hear much of the Pax Europa which blessed the world for forty years ; but it was a peace of nightmares and delirium. No sooner was Napoleon bound like Andromeda to his island rock than England was bombarding Algiers. This is but an incident ; but it is a remarkable fact that, though Europe ha