ities to a close." (7)  234 RE CHANGING NATURE OF WAR WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION I will now turn to the weapons of the moral attack and very briefly examine their powers. THE WEAPONS OF THE MORAL ATTACK When kings led their hosts to battle " valour " was the watchword, but when democracies take command it is " cringing fear "; not that the soldiers of to-day are less brave, but that the civil population is more terrified. It always has been so, because the masses lack discipline ; but compared with former times the difference to-day is, that then the common folk were spectators whilst now they are dictators. Their will is behind the will of the Government, even when it exerts its will, which is the exception rather than the rule. Throughout the history of war treachery has proved itself a powerful weapon, and during the interminable wars of the Middle Ages more castles and walled cities fell through treachery than through starvation-the economic attack, or by force of arms-the military assault. In the World War treachery was attempted through propaganda, the contending newspapers raking dirt out of the gutters of their respective Fleet Streets and squirt- ing it at their country's enemies. All sense of justice was cast aside, the more outrageous the lie the more potent it was supposed to be. In England God sided with the Daily Mail, in Germany with the Berliner Tageblatt and in Paris with the Figaro. Libel, blasphemy, slander and obscenity were mixed up into a nauseating mess and dished out to each nation as its daily food. The behaviour of the English towards unfortunate Germans in England was as disgusting as it was brutal, and the same thing happened in Germany and France, in fact all over the democratic world. Later on in the war, the journalists were drilled into some semblance of order ; yet no Government appeared to realize that the attack by lies besmirched its own future, because the poles of the magnet which must attract all neutrals worth attracting are