co-Italian War of 1859. Progress in the Art of War. ORIGINS OF THE CRIMEAN WAR THE war in the Crimea was, in a sense, a political " throw-back" ; it should have taken place in the eleventh century and not in the nineteenth, and the mere fact that it did take place in the middle of the nineteenth shows how electric and obscure the European atmosphere had become. The elevation of Louis Napoleon as Emperor of the French had upset the balance of power. Nicholas looked upon him as an adventurer, and but grudgingly acknowledged his accession. Louis Napoleon not only felt this insult but recognized that his one hope of founding a dynasty was to wage a successful war, for choice against Russia, to cripple her and to grow strong on her lost blood. Nicholas's object was to control the Black Sea and its outlet ; he believed Turkey to be in a dying condition and, ever since 1844, he had been bent on her partition. As is generally the case in politics, neither side would openly state what it wanted, so a pretext had to be invented, and the one Louis Napoleon settled upon was the same which in the eleventh century had given rise to the Crusades, namely, the protection of the Holy Places in Palestine. He saw in this the means not only of launching a war against Russia but of conciliating Roman Catholic sentiment in France ; for during this period a similar religious revival was taking place in E 65 RETO  66 RETO WAR PERIOD OPENS WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION France as was represented in England by the Tractarian Movement. Greek and Latin monks had for centuries quarrelled over the guardianship of the Holy Places, when, in 1740, Louis XV had obtained from the Sultan, Mahmud I, Capitulations under which the members of " Christian and hostile nations " visiting the Ottoman Empire " were placed under the protection of the French flag." These Capitulations had fallen into abeyance ; nevertheless, in order to stir up Russia, Louis Napoleon demanded their revival. Nicholas objected and, f