hat the spirit of nationalism in Germany was a living growing force which demanded unity. Strategically the war was interesting, because Austria was a veteran military Power, whilst, excepting the Danish wars, few Prussian officers had any actual war experience ; for Prussia had been at peace since 1815. Tactically it is of equal interest, for though breech- loading rifles and even repeating rifles had been used during the American Civil War, this was the first war in which one army armed with the breech-loader met another armed with the muzzle-loader. In spite of the fact that the Prussian needle gun was sighted to 400 metres whilst the Austrian Lorenz rifle was sighted to 1,000, it was the main tactical factor which led to the Austrian defeat because it could easily be loaded when the firer was prone, whilst the other could not be. That this superiority could have been annulled by a correct use of artillery was unrecognized by the Austrian General Staff, in spite of the fact that the Austrian Army had been re-equipped with rifled cannon in 1863, with effective shrapnel range of 2,000 yards and case-shot range of 500 yards.  104 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION The Austrian tactics were completely obsolete, reliance being placed on close formations and the bayonet. General von Horsetzky writes that in 1863 the Austrians taught the soldier " that the bayonet is not only useful for turning the enemy out of their positions, but that it should also appeal to the honour of brave men. . . . "(1) In 1859 they had watched the French successfully employ close quarter fighting, so they now decided to do the same, but they overlooked the fact that the advantage of closing lay not in range and accuracy but in rapidity of fire. They thus directly played into the hands of the Prussian riflemen. Whilst the mind of the Austrian Staff floated in a nebulous past that of the Prussian probed into the future. This was the true secret of their success. Ever since 1852 Moltke had studied the