ther-had now made friends. Russia had no longer to think of the perils of the Far East, and could turn her undivided attention to the even more dangerous game of European politics."(4) This year France and Japan agreed to respect the integrity of China, and Russia and Japan signed a similar treaty. The political board of Europe was now set, but the table upon which it was laid out was so rickety that the slightest jar or jog might easily upset it. INFLUENCE OF THE MANCHURIAN WAR ON MILITARY THOUGHT The war in Manchuria had not proved M. Bloch right, but it had not proved him wrong ; for the war he had in mind was a war in Europe, and not a war in a corner of Asia. It had proved, however, that many of his contentions were well founded : Such as the indeci- siveness of modern battles ; the reduction of slaughter through weapon improvement ; the extensive use of entrenchments ; the supremacy of artillery, and the increasing probability of war being brought to an end by attrition and revolution in place of by force of arms. Bloch's great work lay, however, beyond the horizon of the military mind. In any case, what could a banker know of war ? So it came about that the General Staffs set up their old idols upon their old altars and burnt before them the new incense of Manchuria. The French and the German Staffs (and it is these two I intend to deal with, for the remainder were but their disciples) revised their training manuals, unconsciously, or pur- posely, reading into the war what they wished it to prove. Both based their doctrines exclusively on the offensive, the bayonet assault remaining the pivot of their tactical ideas. The main difference in the two doctrines now decided upon may be traced to national characteristics. Physically and intellectually the German is heavy and methodical, the French quick and cautious. The French, following 187 Napoleon, believed in attacking in order to uncover, and then, when full information had been gained, to manœuvre against th