able early in 1861, to put into the field, in addition to their volunteers, one Army Corps of regular troops, the war would have ended in a few months." Surely one army corps in the continent of America, confronted by the riflemen of the South, would in a few weeks have met the fate of Braddock and his Regulars on  100 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION the Monogahela in 1755, or of Lord Percy and his Red Coats at Lexington twenty years later. Moltke, however, did recognize this : " That the fire of stationary troops was so much more effective than that of troops advancing that it would be well to combine as far as possible a tactical defensive with a strategical offensive," (20) and Havelock suggested (21) reducing the British infantry and forming a body of 7,890 mounted riflemen on the pattern of those used during this war. Nevertheless, the bayonet still dominated the minds of European soldiers, who took no notice of the fact that Federals and Confederates saw so little use in it that many men threw this weapon away, much as they did at the battle of Rocroi in 1643, when soldiers threw away their pikes and picked up muskets. Yet during these years some progress was made. In 1862 Henri Dunant, a Genevese philanthropist, published a book entitled Un Souvenir de Solférino in which he described the sufferings of the wounded. It was this book which resulted in the assembly of a conference at Geneva in 1863, and the signing of the first Geneva Convention, on August 22, the following year. In England the only military results of the war were that, in 1867, tinned mutton was issued to the Navy and nicknamed " Fanny Adams" after a contemporary murderess who disposed of her child by boiling it down ; and further, that the Minister of War began to stir himself and enquire into the work of his numerous subordinates. Whilst on one of his inspections he met a gentleman in the passage and asked him what hour he usually came to his duty. "' Oh !' said the gentleman in reply, 'I usuall