ent; on December 31 Rasputin was murdered in Petrograd.  212 WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION RET GRAND STRATEGY OF THE WAR 1917. THE YEAR OF MORAL ATTRITION Though the physical attrition of 1916 was to continue, the main characteristic of 1917 was the moral attrition of all sides. On the part of the Central Powers this was inevitable. The world having now turned against Germany, its moral support was denied to her, and without it she was henceforth reduced to make demands on the morale of her people without being in any way able to replenish it from outside. On the part of the Entente Powers, the reason for their moral decadence was the opposite. The world was now definitely ranged on their side, and, as we shall see, early in this year America full-heartedly joined their cause. It was not, therefore, outside influence which depressed them, but inside lack of co-ordination. Whilst Germany was able to back her fighting forces by her superb though dwindling patriotism, the Entente Powers had no similar force to unify and stimulate them. The lack of a controlling brain, an organ which could consider one thing at one time, in place of all things at any time, led to intense friction-military and political. Whilst Germany was still controlled by a national spirit, the Entente, as an entity, was obsessed by mob instincts-its members were not only fearful of the common enemy but sus- picious of each other. Germany was being morally exhausted through outside pressure, and the Entente Powers through a creeping internal paralysis. No sooner had the Entente Governments rejected the German peace proposals than the Central Powers made one further attempt to regain world opinion by repudiat- ing any further responsibility for continuing the war, and declaring that, as the war was now forced upon them, they would fight for their hearths and homes to the bitter end. Having thus attempted to place herself in the right, eight days later, on January II, Germany committed an egregious poli