ing Pesth, on January 5, 1849 ; but in place of putting an end to the war he was driven out of Hungary and, on April 19, this country declared its independence. Instead of marching on Vienna the Hungarians laid siege to Buda, whereupon the Austrian Government called to Russia to assist her, and the Czar, still under the baneful influence of the expiring Holy Alliance, sent 80,000 troops to her support. These, on August 9, fell upon the Hungarians at Temesvar and routed them ; then followed a reign of terror in which Hungary sank into silence and despair. In the Empire revolution had been quashed. Italy  56 RETO NATIONALISM TAKES FORM WAR AND WESTERN CIVILIZATION was back in chains and so was Hungary. Once again the Empire stood where it had in 1847. Outwardly it was the same, but to the discerning it was but the shell of a blown egg. Meanwhile in the north revolution took another turn. REVOLUTION IN GERMANY Though the German workmen, following the lead of the French, clamoured for a greater share in the profits of their masters, and free thought and democracy were rampant in Leipzig, the revolution in Germany was not a social or an economic movement but a national upheaval. For whilst in Austria a variety of races were held together by one crown, and, consequently, the national instinct was impelled towards separation, the peoples of Germany were one race divided under many govermnents, there- fore, the urge was towards unity. This urge had been vastly stimulated by Hegel, whose idealistic philosophy led back to reality, and also by a host of young poets such as Herwegh, Dingelstedt, Freilgrath and Prutz. Further still, railways had begun to consolidate the land. While Kossuth was stirring up Hungary Bavaria lay divided between the Ultramontanes and the " Lola- montanes," that is between the followers of the Jesuits and those of Lola Montez, the King's mistress. And the quarrel ended in the famous Irish adventuress having to pack up bag and baggage and depart. Pruss