ircraft would turn back. Those that did make it often missed the target. The bombing was in fact so imprecise that the Germans, seeing bombs scattered across hundreds of miles, were genuinely unaware of what the target was. The RAF suffered high casualties in the process. On July 2, twelve aircraft took off 21 for raids on oil targets; ten turned back, and one of the two aircraft that continued was destroyed. The story was the same throughout the rest of the month.14 From then, things only got worse. On August 13, as the Battle of Britain was picking up, twelve aircraft were sent to attack a German airfield at Aalborg in northern Denmark, the site of an earlier disastrous raid. Twenty miles from the target, German fighters-Messerschmitt 1095-attacked them. The fighters strafed the formation mercilessly all the way to the target. When the fighters broke away at the last minute, German flak guns opened fire. It was in every sense a massacre. All twelve aircraft were shot down, and only nine of the thirty- three aircrew who left England survived-as prisoners. One was blind in one eye, and another had a broken back.15 Aalborg put paid to the belief that the RAF could launch daylight raids on Germany without fighter cover. The RAF switched to night bombing (with some exceptions), but it continued its strategy of precision bombing. Over the summer of 1940, Bomber Command went out night after night. The targets changed frequently, according to no apparent pattern: from oil to shipping, to aircraft, then back to shipping again. Much time and many airplanes were also wasted on pointless schemes (in August 1940, 10 Squadron was ordered to drop phosphorous strips to set German fields alight; the only thing that caught fire was the airplanes themselves). Losses remained low in percentage terms, but combined with the poor results, aircrew morale was slowly being chipped away. At the best of times, an air raid was a brutal experience. On one early 1941 raid, a pilot watched the h