st lead to tragic results . . . I beg you to take the strictest measures to provide additional protection for these plants." On July 9, ten days after Speer's letter to Hitler, ULTRA picked up another intercept, this time from Göring. It read: "The deep inroads made into the sup- ply of aircraft fuel demand the most stringent reduction in flying. Drastic econ- omy is absolutely essential."Three weeks later, the Americans launched a raid on Germany's largest single synthetic oil plant, at Merseburg. The intercept read: "Heaviest attacks so far; heavy damage-works provisionally 100 percent out of action."8 The impact of oil attacks was decisive and unquestionable. Up to this point, during the whole of 1944, Bomber Command had not launched a sin- gle attack on oil targets.9 On July 7, both the Eighth and the Fifteenth Air Forces launched oil raids on Germany. The Eighth hit targets in central Germany; the Fifteenth bombed syn- thetic oil plants at Blechhammer, in Upper Silisia, forty miles from Auschwitz. The Allies had definitely known about Auschwitz since April 1944.1º On April 4, an American reconnaissance plane had flown toward the I.G. Farben syn- thetic oil and rubber plant at Monowitz. Four miles before reaching the plant, he turned on his camera. The film rolled as he passed over the plant, and then for another four miles. On his return, he had twenty-three exposures, including three of Auschwitz." On April 7, Rudolf Vrba and Alfred Wetzler, both Slovak Jews, had escaped the camp and hid themselves in a woodpile just outside it. For three days, the SS and their dogs searched the camp and its surroundings. Then, after SS pro- cedure dictated that the search be called off, Vrba and Wetzler escaped. Two weeks later, they arrived in Slovakia. On April 25, 1944, the Vrba-Wetzler Report (also known as the Auschwitz Protocols) told the world of the camp and its locations, of crowded trains arriving at precise times, of the separation of prisoners, and of ovens: At pr