angerous. It was in fact these attacks which caused the breakdown of the German armaments industry." He said exactly the same thing to British interrogators. At three points, a limited number of precision bombing raids-on ball bearings and on the dams in 1943, and on oil and transportation in 1944-1945-almost brought Ger- many to its knees. After both the ball bearings and the dam raids, Speer waited in fear for repeat attacks. That they did not come was in large part thanks to Harris. This conclusion is not based on hindsight. In March 1943, the Com- mittee of Operations Analysts (COA), a group of civilian experts convened in December 1942, issued a report. Using words that Speer himself might have written, the COA concluded that it was "better to cause a high degree of  272 1 FIRE AND FURY Conclusion destruction in a few really essential industries or services than to cause a small degree of destruction in many industries."s The COA recommended precision attacks on industries suffering bottlenecks: ball bearings, propellers, tires, and engines. It deferred a decision on oil until more information was available. A year later, on June 21, 1944, it called for direct attacks on the aircraft industry, oil, and ball bearings.6 The oil and transportation raids played a direct role in Germany's post- summer 1944 implosion. They were kept on the agenda by the Americans, pushed for heavily by Spaatz and Tedder, and opposed by Harris. They were only possible, as the Americans well knew, because of another type of precision bombing: the destruction of the Luftwaffe. Despite repeated pleas that Harris join the fight, the destruction of the Luftwaffe was an American achievement.7 Over the course of the war, the bombing that damaged Germany most was American. American efforts are often equated for moral and strategic purposes with the RAF, perhaps because a number of writers have recoiled from the idea that there was a clear and sharp distinction between the American and the Bri