ng hundreds of tons of bombs on a job for which they were neither trained nor prepared.13 Beyond Portal, Arnold held out hope for a meeting with Lord Beaverbrook, then Churchill's production coordinator. To his surprise, he was treated as a minor, if not major, celebrity. When he arrived for an overnight stay in neutral Portugal, three members of a UK delegation, led by Air Marshal John C. Slessor (Assistant Chief of Air Staff [Plans], who worked directly under Vice Chief of Airstaff Wilfred Freeman and Portal), were waiting for him. After allowing Arnold a bath and change, they pelted him with questions: What could the Americans do about the U-boat campaign, which threatened the UK with starvation? What could they do about the B-17 (delivered by Roosevelt to England), which was useless in com- bat? And, above all, did he really believe that precision bombing would work? Despite his quasi-hero's welcome, the trip nearly went badly. The British found him unprepared. Portal, when he first dined with Arnold, was shocked to  44 1 FIRE AND FURY learn that Arnold had arrived without an agenda for his visit. Arnold, for his part, found Portal defeatist and demanding. They would "talk about squadrons whereas we would talk about groups." At the same time, they made endless demands for American support. Things looked up, however, when he met Beaver- brook, who was "the one man in London with ideas as large as his own"-perhaps because he, too, was a North American.14 Beaverbrook agreed immediately to Arnold's request for two each of Spitfires (fighters), Hurricanes, and Welling- tons (bombers) for study, and invited him to view everything the British had. Most revealingly, from Arnold's perspective, Beaverbrook told him that the Germans had reduced British aircraft production by up to one-third as a result of factory bombing.15 Another of Beaverbrook's comments left a lasting impression on Arnold. At an April 21 dinner, Beaverbrook asked him: "What would you do if Churchill we