gher still without the transfer. The president of Focke-Wulfe, the aircraft manufacturer, thought the transfers might have had some effect but were not "in any sense decisive."28 Richard Overy, who popularized the argument, concludes- conservatively and sensibly-that the transfer created a ceiling to German war production: "the important consequence of bombing was not that it failed to stem the increase in arms production, but that it prevented the increase from being very considerably greater than it was."29 It is an intriguing argument, but it is impossible to prove. It is inherently dif- ficult to explain why something wasn't rather than why it was. Moreover, we can't ask how the war would have developed for the Germans if they'd had the planes, guns, and people used for defence on the front without asking how the war would have developed for the Allies if they'd had the planes, guns, and people used to bomb Germany over the Atlantic, in the Mediterranean, or in the Pacific. How would the war have developed if the huge resources expended on bomb- ing were spent on winning the Battle of the Atlantic or backing up an earlier invasion of the Continent? It is only possible to answer such questions roughly. During the war, Britain and America produced 456,299 airplanes; Germany produced 117,791. In 1944, when Allied bombing was at a peak, Britain and America had 3.5 million work- ers in the aircraft industry; in 1941, when German bombing was at a peak, it had 1.85 million. Germany spent large amounts of resources on radar and optical equipment in defending German cities; the Allies spend large amounts of money on radar and radar-jamming equipment in bombing them. The two clear "debits" against the Germans are absenteeism (which affects the bombed, not the bomber) and flak production. Taking the last, there is no flak without bombs: the large German output on flak has to be set against the large Allied output on bombs. Absenteeism, for its part, could be problematic, b