ttack on Pearl Harbor, he needed a new Air commander-in-chief in the Far East.4 Sinclair saw his chance. He sug- gested to Portal that Peirse take the job.5 Harris's experience and his contacts in the United States (he had left the desk for a tour of the U.S.) made him a likely candidate to replace Peirse. A likely candidate, but not a certain one. Harris's style had already made him enemies. Lord Halifax, in particular, thought he was crude, domineering, and patronizing toward the Americans. During Harris's study trip to the States, his habit of speaking his mind had left his hosts offended. Against this, however, Harris had an inestimable advantage: Churchill's support. Although they dif- fered in background, learning, style, and articulacy, chemistry developed between the two men. They shared a flair for the dramatic and liked to present the strug- gle against Germany in grand, almost mythical terms. Whether this was enough to explain Churchill's affection for the Rhodesian is not clear, but for whatever reason he remained throughout the war strangely in thrall to Harris. Like another colonial, Beaverbrook, "Harris had a peculiar influence over Churchill which he used to great effect. . . . Although he never got all he asked for, his ability to influence Churchill meant that the Prime Minister essentially allowed Harris to wage a private war."6 That war began with a mid-December phone call from Portal to Harris, offering him the job. Harris accepted. Portal replied, "Splen- did! I'll go and tell Winston at once."7 On February 10, Harris sailed to England. | 31 As he did, the Air Ministry was drafting a new directive, which it issued on February 14, 1942. For the first three years of the war, Bomber Command had been limited: first, by the need to protect private property; then, by the need to avoid bombing east of the Rhine; and finally, by the need to target industry rather than civilians. In early 1942, before Harris took power, all of this changed. According to