losses were worth it. He poured over British and American aerial photographs showing extensive damage to German industry. He was particularly impressed with the Schweinfurt photos. Although the raid was costly, it had inflicted a great deal of damage on German industry. A great deal, but not enough. Speer's frantic efforts to secure alternate sup- plies had not gone unnoticed. By the end of August, Swedish and Swiss sources were sending reports to England. Photo-reconnaissance revealed frenetic repairs at Schweinfurt itself. And ULTRA (intelligence secured using Enigma to decrypt German codes) revealed how worried the Germans were about a follow- up attack and how urgently they were building up their forces.42 Arnold told Eaker, "I know you'll get to it as soon as the weather permits."43 Curtis LeMay, for one, was ready to go. As Arnold and Eaker conferred in High Wycombe, Speer and Milch were at Rechlin am Müritzsee, home of the Air Force Experimental Centre. Milch was presenting charts on American and German aircraft production. "What alarmed 133 us most," wrote Speer, "were the figures on the future increase in four-motored daylight bombers. If these figures were accurate, [the U.S. bombing] we were undergoing could be regarded only as a prelude."44 When asked how much Hitler and Göring knew about the figures, Milch was incensed. He told Speer that he had been trying for months to get Göring to accept an Air Ministry expert report on enemy armaments. Göring refused to look at it. "It was all," Göring said, "enemy propaganda." The Führer had told him so. Speer tried to raise the matter with Hitler after the meeting, but he fared no better. "Don't let them fool you" Hitler replied. "Those are all planted stories. Naturally those defeatists in the Air Ministry fall for them."45 It was, Speer thought, the same attitude Hitler had taken to 1942 warnings about upcoming RAF raids on German cities, cities that were now rubble. Göring's (and Hitler's) delusions were again