be of benefit to the bomber. The bomber crews have more to face than anyone else in our war. They should be given all reasonable preference. But because we are defensively minded-and that never yet won a war-everyone else always gets preference over the Bomber!"10 He did not, however, follow up his missive with his usual insistence. He let the matter rest and only raised it again when radar-directed night fighters began imposing higher losses on Bomber Command in the summer of 1943." At that time, he went directly to Churchill. The issue was finally settled at a June 22, 1943, meeting. R.V. Jones, the young Assistant Director of Intelligence [science], Wattson-Watt, and  106 | FIRE AND FURY 14 | To destroy Hamburg the obstinate and hot-tempered commander-in-chief of Fighter Command, Si Trafford Leigh-Mallory, were there. All sides repeated their arguments while Churchill listened. Finally, after an hour and a half, Sir Trafford switched sides. "I have heard both sides of the argument," he said, "and I still believe that launching the weapon will wreck our defences. I am, however, prepared to take the risk " "Very well," Churchill said. "Let us open the window." It was a smart move. The heart of the anti-Window case was that using it would remove all moral constraints. Seeing their defences overwhelmed and the cities wrecked, the Germans would retaliate. British defences would be equallu overwhelmed and London would be open to a second, much more devastating blitz. The result would be an early form of what was called mutual assured destruction (MAD) during the Cold War. As it happened, the opponents had underestimated German reticence. In one of the war's ironies, British angel were prepared to go where German devils feared to tread. At the same time Window was being tested over East Anglia, the Luftwaffe was testing the German equivalent, Düppel, over the Baltic. Reports about Düppel's destructive effect on radar were sent back to Göring. He read them and was horrif