son, ever the risk-taker, argued the opposite, urging Spaatz on and assuring him that the operation was worth two hundred bombers. Spaatz stayed up all night listening to the conflicting advice of his opponents. As dawn broke, he had gotten no sleep. But he'd made up his mind. He put a three-word message through to his base commanders: "Let 'em go."17 On February 20, more than one thousand bombers and nine hundred fighters took off for Germany.18 Six combat wings flew unescorted to targets near Posen and Tutow. The other ten and the entire fighter force headed off to the massive assembly and component plants in the Brunswick-Leipzig area. When the ten combat wings entered German airspace, the professor was proved right: the sky  FIRE AND FURY 166 1 Taking out the Luftwaffe 1 cleared quickly and completely. Incredibly, for February, there was snow in Los Angeles and bright sun in Leipzig.19 The leading bombs were accompanied by nine hundred fighters (P-47s, P-38s, and P-51s). They had new 150-gallon tanks that allowed them to fly all the way to Hanover, some 400 miles from their base. Just as they were ready to break off their escort on the left side of the bombing formation, they saw a stream of Messerschmitt fighters. The Germans were planning-following a tried and tested technique-to attack the fighters from below, blasting them as they remained glued to the bombers. This time, however, it was different: the Americans attacked them. The Thunderbolts swooped down onto the Luftwaffe fighters, chewing into them. Only one Messerschmitt escaped undamaged.20 The Americans did not lose a single plane. While the Thunderbolts were engaging the Luftwaffe, the six other combat wings flew to northern Germany and the Ninth Air Force sent 135 medium bombers to attack airfields in western Germany. The largest force ever dispatched by the Eighth Air Force was hitting the Luftwaffe front, middle, and centre. That night, some twelve hours after his men left, Spaatz was waiting nerv