oads of Jews began travelling to death camps at Treblinka, Belzec, Sobibor, and Chelmno. In February 1942, Todt made one last attempt to change Hitler's mind about negotiating. On February 7, he flew to see Hitler at Rastenburg. Those outside the room heard shouts. In the middle of the meeting, Speer arrived unexpect- edly and tried to see Hitler. When an aide announced Speer's arrival, Hitler refused to see him. Speer made his way to the officer's mess for dinner. Just before midnight, Todt came in looking exhausted and despairing. He said noth- ing about his argument with Hitler and instead offered Speer a seat on his air- plane leaving for Berlin the next morning. Speer, concluding that he would not see Hitler, agreed. After Todt left, Speer lingered. At almost I A.M., an aide arrived and told him that the Führer wanted to see him. When Speer entered the room, Hitler looked as depressed as Todt had. As was often the case with Hitler, conversation was painful. But when it strayed to architecture, Hitler perked up. Discussion of what Nuremberg and Berlin would become allowed him to escape from the gloomy news from the front. They spoke for two hours before Hitler dismissed Speer at 3 A.M. Speer, utterly exhausted, rang to cancel his flight with Todt and went to bed. The next morning, well before he had planned to get up, the phone rang. It was Karl Brandt, Hitler's personal physician and head of the Nazi euthanasia program. Brandt gave Speer the news: Todt was dead. That morning, witnesses saw Todt's Heinkel HE-III taxi onto the runway and lift off. The plane began to gain altitude and then, very suddenly, it turned and headed back toward the runway. With the aircraft only sixty feet from the ground, a vertical jet of flame shot out of the fuselage. The machine plum- meted. With a great crash, it broke apart on landing, setting off further explosions. The circumstances behind Todt's death were never clarified. Was Speer tipped off the night before, leading him to c