g demoralized, Hamburg's workers turned up for their shifts in the days and weeks after the bombings and they worked with an enthusiasm and determination that left Speer speech- less.8 This is not surprising. Like James Joyce's snow, Harris's bombs rained down on both the living and the dead, the innocent and the guilty, the collaborator and the resister. When one survivor took the hand reaching out from the rubble of a bombed house, he did not ask if it belonged to a Nazi. Even those with the most reason to hate the Germans were not immune: in some cases, hidden Jews went through the streets helping bomb victims. The bombing made Hamburg- ers, always a proud people, love their wounded city more than ever. Within five months, the most important factories had reached 80 percent of pre-bombing production levels. Speer nonetheless had reason to worry. Since becoming Armaments Minister in 1942, he had made relentless efforts to increase Germany's industrial production. He created the Central Planning committee for overseeing German industrial production, rationalized steel and coal production, and linked the production of arms with the production of their component parts.ยบ The achievement was 1 123 near-miraculous, but it came at a price: bottlenecks, particularly in ball bearings production. A sustained attack on ball bearings factories would slow and, in the worst case, halt the growth of industrial production. Surveying the Axis Powers industrial landscape, Speer sketched out the scenario that would lead to Ger- many's defeat. It had three steps. I. In a coordinated U.S .- British bombing, the Allies would attack all ball bearings factories-Schweinfurt, Steyr, Erkner, Cannstatt, as well as targets in France and Italy-simultaneously. 2 . The Allies would press their advantage by repeating these attacks every two weeks for another six to eight weeks. 3 . From October 1943, as the Germans attempted to rebuild, the Allies would launch two large and successive attacks eve