ng if erratic support from Churchill. Many other high-level officials were prepared to turn a blind eye. This, however, is as far as it can go. Harris was not behind the February 1942 directive initiating the era of car- pet bombing.5 The initiative was drafted by the Directors of Bomber Operations and approved by the Cabinet. Harris, however, interpreted it in a matter that strayed from its authors' intentions. In his dispatches, published after the war, he gave the misleading impression that the phrase "to focus attacks on the morale of the enemy civilian population and, in particular, on the industrial workers" was the unalterable foundation of the directive.52 It was not. Air Staff saw the directive not as an immutable principle that would guide air force pol- icy throughout the war regardless of circumstances. It was rather to be a tempo- rary policy, justified by the lack of tactical alternatives, pursued until precision bombing was possible. As Air Commodore Bufton, Co-Director of Bomber Operations during Harris's tenure, put it: Harris's "interpretation was correct for the period immediately following the issue of the directive, but it does not, in my view, as the person who drafted the directive originally, embrace the whole intention of the Air Staff at that time. The intention was always to return to the bomb- ing of precise targets as quickly as [the] tactical capabilities of the bomber force would permit."s; This is not retrospective memory: the directive itself makes clear that area bombing was to be a temporary expedient: once Gee was intro- duced, it should allow "for effective attacks on precise targets."54 As the directive also repeated the Air Staff view that the Germans would jam Gee within six months, precision bombing was expected, and implicitly demanded, following that period.55 Although Harris often complained that he faced constant interference, he enjoyed an inordinate amount of autonomy. Subject to loose and malleable offi- cial instructi