berg and Jülich were also destroyed that night. Harris finally replied on November 24, 1944. It was one of many points dur- ing this months-long exchange at which he might have simply conceded that Portal was right, and carried on regardless. But that was not Harris's style. He had plenty of guile, but a visceral distaste for mendacity. He believed either that Portal was wrong on the casualty rate, or that his argument depended on him being wrong. Either way, he was not going to let Portal's arguments stand unquestioned. Rather ironically, given his low regard for experts, he challenged Portal by summarizing four points from an Air Scientific Intelligence Report entitled "The Present Eclipse of the German Night Fighters." From it, Harris concluded  FIRE AND FURY 218 1 Harris's and Spaatz's orders that (i) Germany put an immense effort into the expansion and equipment of its night air defences; (ii) British losses were kept in bearable limits only by attending to tactics such as "spoof" and diversionary tactics; and (iii) the retire- ment of the enemy to his own frontiers deprived him of much of his early warn- ing system, making deception easier. The report, Harris continued, stresses the fact that our low losses up to the present are due not to our ability to fight and defeat the German defences, but to our success in evad- ing them. [The report] points out that a quite small technical advance made by the Germans might, temporarily at least, reduce our powers of invasion. This would mean an immediate and large increase in our rate of loss, as our gunners, provided as they are with a poor view and deficient fire-power, cannot hope to deal effectively with the powerfully armed and heavily armoured German night fighters.37 It's probably a good thing that the letter wasn't shown to the Americans. It was a patronizing dismissal of the efforts made by the USSTAF to destroy the Luftwaffe. Their effort, Harris implied, had been pointless and only his skill at moving RAF bo