clearly stated [by you] more than a year ago .. . and has been reaffirmed by you in several occasions. In their recent review of General Strategy, which you approved, the Chiefs of Staff [i.e., senior personnel from the Army, Navy, and Air Force], stated: "It is in bombing on a scale undreamed of in the last war that we find the new weapon on which we must principally depend for the destruction of economic life and morale. ... After meeting the needs of our own security, therefore, we give the heavy bomber first priority in pro- duction, for only the heavy bomber can produce the conditions under which other offensive forces can be deployed."24 Portal then threw the matter back into the prime minister's lap: I feel bound to restate these facts, because I find them hard to reconcile with your minute of 27 September. The Chiefs of Staff Committee have regarded the bombing offensive on the scale on which we hope to wield it in 1943, as a weapon calculated, if not to break Germany, at least to reduce her strength to the level at which our Armoured forces could hope to intervene success- fully on the Continent. If this is a gross over-estimation of the power of the bomber, and if the most we can hope to achieve with our bomber force is a heavy and increasing annoyance, then, as I see it, the strategic concept to which we have been working must dissolve, and we must find a new plan ... It is my firm belief that the existing plan is sound and practical. But other plans could be drawn up. We could for example return to the conception 1 25 of defeating Germany with the Army as the primary weapon. I must point out with the utmost emphasis that in that event we should require an Air Force composed quite differently from that which we are now creating. Portal ended with a coup de grâce. "If, therefore, it is your view that the strategic picture has changed since the issue of your original directive I would urge that revised instructions should be given to the Chiefs of Staff wit