couldn't bear the thought of dying in the foul depths of a submarine or crawling through mud and barbed wire. The RAF, by contrast, offered glam- our. "I had always wanted to fly," he said sixty years later. The strips were code-named Window. They were a further advance in a silent radar war conducted between the British and the Germans throughout the con- flict. The idea of radar itself was a fantastic notion from the pages of sci-fi writers: deadly rays could penetrate enemy aircraft and kill the pilots.' The man tasked with the job of transforming this idea into reality was the one-time friend of Cherwell, Henry Tizard. 103  104 1 FIRE AND FURY England, July 27, 1943: "Let us open the window" | 105 Tizard's civil service work had put him back in contact with Cherwell. Whil. the two men's careers followed an at-times eerily similar trajectory, they were very different characters. When Tizard was in Berlin, he lived in a cold rente flat and looked with envy at the warm coats of wealthy Berliners strolling dowe the Unter den Linden, Berlin's grandest boulevard. Cherwell lived on the Un den Linden, at the city's most prestigious address, the Adlon Hotel, overlool ing the Brandenburg gate. Back in England, their lifestyles continued to diffe. Cherwell was a gentleman and lived the life of one. He would rise late, have. leisurely morning, and send his manservant to pick up his car-a grand Mercedes-around II A.M. He would be driven to the lab to put in a few hours work before returning to his rooms at Christ Church-a very grand set over looking Christ Church meadow and the chapel.2 Tizard's was an altogether different character: unpretentious and suspicious of unjustified privilege. When he learned during the war that an official car was kept continuously at his disposal, he gave it up in favour of that most proletar ian means of transportation, the bus.3 Tizard also possessed a work ethic mor like that of an American entrepreneur than an English gentlemen. From 1920 Ti