bombings, Harris was ready to bring his war to Germany. The question that remained was one of targets. Harris avoided the major industrial cities of Germany: Düsseldorf, Essen, and Stuttgart. They were heav- ily defended and, in the case of Stuttgart, hard to reach. Harris instead sought a city whose destruction would be so complete that the world would take notice "I wanted my crews to be well 'blooded' as they say in foxhunting, to have a taste of success." Such a city would have three attributes: it would be easy to find, not overwhelmingly defended, and likely to burn.3 The commercial port city of Lübeck fit the bill. Above all, its mass of densely knit, wooden houses meant that it would burn. "It was built," as Harris noted, "more like a fire lighter than a human habitation."4 Like Hamburg and Bremen, Lübeck was built around trade rather than indus- try. The city radiated out from its central markets, around which wealthy trad- ing families had built their famous gabled houses. The city's old centre was small and compact-half a mile by one mile-and bounded by canals on all sides. Its two most important public buildings were the Dome, for which Henry the Lion, the city's founder, had laid the cornerstone in 1173, and the Church of St. Mary both famous for their paired steeples. By 1940, the entire city core was under a preservation order. Three years into the war, it was only lightly defended by five heavy and three light flak batteries. - 5 LÜBECK, NORTHERN GERMANY In the early evening of March 28, 1942, the sun was setting. It was the night before Palm Sunday, and across the city churches were preparing confirmations. At around II:15 P.M., the first air-raid warning rang out.5 No one paid any atten- tion. For more than two years, air-raid warnings had been followed by nothing, as the bombers flew to Bremen, Hamburg, or Berlin. Lübeckers-believing a story that had many analogues across Germany-told themselves that the city would not be bombed because Churchill'