raggler, a main force Halifax that would no doubt have been brought down had German defences been operating, passed over the city and dropped its load Then, an intact bombing formation turned from the city, banked north, and flew home. It was over. The raid had been one of the easiest in the RAF's history. Of the zor bombers that left for Hamburg, 7 failed to return. Mechanical problems led forty-five to turn back before reaching the German coast, another two jettisoned their load just inside Germany (dropping a bomb load anywhere on German soil constituted an operational flight), and five crashed. Two Halifaxes-from 51 and 158 squadrons-strayed badly off course and were brought down by Ger- man fighters well north of Hamburg. The men were on their first and second operations, respectively. Their fate was all too typical of young, inexperienced aircrews; many would fly over Germany only once. The final three were brought down over Hamburg. German fighters shot down a Halifax in the second wave and a Stirling in the third-the Luftwaffe's only successes over Germany's sec- ond most heavily guarded city. Only one member of each crew survived. The third plane came down when a Stirling dove to escape a searchlight and crashed into another plane head-on. The second aircraft went into a deep dive and crashed into the ground, but the Canadian pilot of the Stirling, Flying Officer Geoff Turner, brought his plane safely back to England, despite having lost a four-foot section of the plane's starboard wing. After he touched ground in England, he had less than two months to live: Turner and his entire crew were shot down on a September 23, 1943, raid on Mannheim. 15 1 Under the bombs n the early evening of July 24, 1943, Gerhard Lange, a soldier on leave, was at L his parents' flat in Wandsbek, an affluent suburb northeast of the city centre. He was not a Hamburger by birth, and was one of few Germans who could view Hamburgers as southerners. Gerhard was born in Flensburg, Germ