Achilles heel | 17 support for the invasion. Portal maintained that oil fell outside POINTBLANK, and in late March he sent out an official minute ruling Ploesti out as a target.21 Spaatz went ahead anyway. On April 5, the Fifteenth Air Force launched a raid on Ploesti. As required by the transportation plan, the target was the town's mar- shalling yards.22 The bombers, however, "missed" the yards and hit the adjacent refineries. A few days later, they "missed" again, and scored another direct hit on Ploesti. Spaatz was convinced that the raids had been successful, but he could not launch a full-blown oil campaign without Eisenhower's support. On April 10, the British War Cabinet and British Chiefs of Staff invoked an escape clause in the air agreement, declaring V-1 rockets a threat to the security of the British Isles. Tedder phoned Fred Anderson to give him a new bombing directive: Operation Crossbow, the destruction of German long-range missiles and missile sites, had priority over POINTBLANK. In early 1944, the War Cab- inet had asked for a military report on gassing German launching sites.23 Portal had to point out that the Vice-Chiefs of Staff had already considered such a pro- posal in late 1943, along with the related idea of gassing German civilians. The Vice-Chiefs thought gas attacks on civilians would cost Britain the moral high ground and invite retaliation, and that gas attacks on projector sites did less damage than high explosives.24 Spaatz was livid, and on the night of April 19 he went to let Eisenhower know. The timing turned out to be bad. Minutes before Spaatz arrived, Eisen- hower had learned that the commanding general of the Ninth's Air Force Sery- ice Command, Maj. Gen. Henry J.F. Miller, had gotten obnoxiously drunk in a London hotel and proceeded loudly to take bets that the invasion would come before June 15.25 It was not an auspicious start, but Spaatz made good by having Miller arrested and confined to his quarters. Spaatz then vented h