ndow can so devastate a [radar] defence system that we ourselves have withheld using it until we could effect improvements in our defences, and until we could be sure of hitting the enemy harder than he could hit us. "The time has now come," he concluded, "when, by the aid of Window in con- serving your unmatched strength, we shall hit him even harder."4 The officer took the floor again and asked if there were any questions. There were not. He said words to the effect of, "It is now time to synchronize your watches. Good luck."5 Then he turned and left the room. The men regrouped around 7 P.M. in the mess, where they had the usual bacon and eggs. Everyone knew that it would be the last meal for some of them. After eating, they donned their gear and waited to be transported to the planes. At 9 P.M. or so, they were at their planes, and half an hour later they were in them, ready for takeoff. At 9:45 P.M., a New Zealand squadron, piloted by Ser- geant P. Moseley, was the first to take off. Minutes later, hundreds of airplanes were screaming down runways across England. Once in the air, Moseley's Stir- ling was overtaken by the Lancasters in the pathfinder force. 109 At around 10 P.M., Jack Pragnell's Halifax took off and slowly began to gain altitude. His first job was to get the heavy plane as high in the air as possible. Down below, in Wellingborough, his fiancée, Brenda, could often hear the planes and wondered which one he was in. When he approached the English coast, his squadron joined the others high above the seaside towns below. They fell into three large bomber streams approaching the coast. By II P.M., Jack's was one of 791 airplanes in the skies heading out to sea. At almost exactly this moment, Freya radar beams (which showed a plane, but said nothing about altitude) sent from the Germans' Ostend radar station, some seventy-five miles away, silently made contact with the planes and instantly relayed the message. The Luftwaffe had been warned. About eighty