e of downed American bombers littering the German countryside. On October 14, Wilbur Klint of the 303rd Bomb Group was part of the second wave of bombers that attacked Schweinfurt. His group took off from Molesworth, joined the bombing formation, and flew on to Germany. Just beyond the border, the escort fighters reached the end of their range and pulled off. Then, as Eaker put it, "the Hun sprang his trap."48 Immediately, a row of single-engine fighters flew at the bombers, firing 20mm cannons and machine guns just before they dived. Then, large formations of twin-engine fighters attack tacked in waves, firing rockets from underneath their wings. In the meantime, the single-engine fighters had reformed, and they attacked, this time from all sides. No sooner were they 135 done than the twin-engine fighters reformed, launching rockets from the front and the back and blas A blasting a single formation until their rockets were expended. "I had no idea the Germans had so many airplanes and so many different types, Klint later said. American bombers were falling out of the sky left, right, and centre. Once a B-17 got into trouble, the pilot-if he had any control at all-would pull off from the formation to avoid a mid-air crash. The bomber was then finished. The fighters would sweep in for the kill. From his cockpit, Klint saw two B-17s hit by rocket fire; they disintegrated. In front and below him was a sea of parachutes. The German attacks, Eaker wrote, "were perfectly timed and coordinated and skilfully executed. ... One of our combat wings was practically wiped out." 49 As ever, the surviving bombers pressed on. As Klint approached the target, the fighters were replaced by a barrage of flak. He saw the flash from the first group. After hearing "Bombs away!" he flew on, into the waiting fighters, which continued their attack all the way to the border. Despite all of the downed bombers on German soil, Speer could not share in Hitler's joy. He asked for a short recess in