to give up on the idea of area bombing. Tedder showed great interest in the idea of attacking morale, and even Portal seemed for a while to favour it.65 In the end, the plan foundered-at least temporarily-on the rocks of American opposition. Cabell dismissed THUNDERCLAP as another "baby killing scheme."66 Spaatz led the opposition against the proposal. "It was one thing to kill non-combatants in raids on military installations inside urban centers, a 'revolting necessity, in the opinion of most American air com- manders. It was quite another to aim bombs at residential neighbourhoods."67  194 1 FIRE AND FURY Oil and baby killing | 195 As Major General Laurence Kuter, by then Spaatz's Assistant Chief of Staff for Plans and Combat Operations, argued, "It is contrary to [American] ideals to wage war against civilians."68 The policy was not only morally untenable; it would not work. Drawing the obvious conclusion from the previous two and a half years of the RAF's bombing campaign, Kuter noted that the "area bombing of Cologne, Berlin and [other] cities has apparently not created large scale absen- teeism in industry. Apathy and discouragement mark the German population; these are doubtful qualities from which ... to generate revolt." Kuter also raised questions about British motives: "Since any such attack will feature U.S.A.A.F. [U.S. Army Air Force] units in the limelight, we should consider whether the recent buzz bomb attacks have not instilled in the British Government a desire for retaliation in which American air units will be called upon to share with the R.A.F. Bomber Command the onus for the more critical features of area bombing."69 He was not alone in this view. Speaking before the debate over THUNDERCLAP, Cabell observed that "the British were building up this terrific resentment on the part of [bombed] peoples, whereas we were being looked at as being a little 'pure' in our motives ... I feel that the British are now anxious to have some of that odium sha