ten equated for moral and strategic purposes with the RAF, perhaps because a number of writers have recoiled from the idea that there was a clear and sharp distinction between the American and the British bombing campaigns. They are right to do so. Much precision bombing involved casualties, and in some cases-when there was extensive cloud cover-"preci- sion" bombing was little more than a hope and a prayer. Until 1944, radar could help pilots find cities covered in cloud but not specific targets within cities. Because they weren't sure they would hit their targets in cloud cover, the Amer- icans regularly used a high percentage of incendiaries (60 percent to 40 percent high explosives during the February 14, 1945, raid on Dresden, a typical mix for a city raid) in the hope that a wider circle of destruction would take out the tar- get.8 An unknown number-but certainly one in the thousands-of civilians were killed that night. During the transportation plan, bombing the railway sta- tion in the centre of the city inevitably meant destroying the area around it. If the city were small enough, bombing would destroy the entire town. And in sev- eral cases-over Münster in October 1943 and Berlin and Dresden in February 1945-the Americans area bombed intentionally. In the same vein, although Harris always opposed precision attacks, many British bombs fell on precision targets, often very effectively. That it is difficult to draw clear and complete distinctions between American and British bombing is clear. This does not mean that none can be drawn. The differences between American and British bombing narrowed over the course of | 273 the war, but they never disappeared. The first point concerns precision bombing. It is at times argued that Bomber Command did not have the luxury of preci- sion bombing by 1943.9 This is not true. The dambuster raids showed that Bomber Command was capable of the most impressive precision-to within a few inches. It was rather that precision bo