et," he said a few weeks after the raid.17  126 1 FIRE AND FURY Speer's nightmare A full four hours after LeMay's bombers had taken off for Regensburg, some two thousand men of the Ist Bombardment Wing were still grounded. They had been awake for eleven hours and waiting in and around their planes for five. A mission had never before been delayed so long. "Perhaps the thing that still remains most vivid of the memory of that long and arduous day," one veteran later wrote, "was the awful wait as take-off was postponed again and again. Je there be a limit to human endurance of that sort of thing, we must have approached it that day."18 Two hours later, LeMay's bombers were crossing the English coast and flying over the North Sea. At 12:30 P.M., German radar picked them up. At the Dutch coast, they were met by eight squadrons of spitfires that would accompany them to Antwerp, fifteen minutes away. The Americans loved the spitfires. They were often flown by Poles, who-motivated by an intense hatred for the Germans were particularly aggressive. Regulations at the time told the Americans to treat any plane that turned toward their formation as an enemy. But if the Poles saw a Luftwaffe fighter in or on the other side of an American formation, they would come straight at it. Wiggling their wings, they would blast right through the formation to hunt the Germans down.19 At Antwerp, American P-47s met them and flew with them until Eupen. At 2:10 P.M., the head of the bomber force passed Eupen. One had already been shot down, and several more had to turn back. But the bulk of the force was on its way to Schweinfurt, fifty minutes away. They had, however, reached the limits of their escort range, and from Eupen they had to continue alone. Wilbur Klint of the 303rd Bomb Group was the co-pilot in one of the B-17s. He had flown his first mission the day before, as part of an American raid on the le Bourget airport at Paris. As the bombing formation came toward the tar- get, a smal