hich led out of the city. Heinrich's father knew the cellars were linked through a series of passages that would be safer than the street. He was right: a short while later, the fires reached deadly tem- peratures and all of the houses collapsed. His father led them into the first house's cellar, followed by his mother, aunt, Heinrich himself, his cousin, and the neighbour. As they left the first house for the second, the cellar roof gave, killing the neighbour instantly. They made it out of the houses in the Augustinerstrasse, through an arch- way and directly to the Main. His father led them down to the riverbanks and followed the water. Houses collapsed around them, spraying debris onto the banks and into the river. When they reached the Löwenbrücke, they climbed the  FIRE AND FURY 256 | A crescendo of destruction small steps onto the bridge. There was a great crowd of people on it; in its centre was a burned-out tram, and the tramlines had fallen onto the bridge. The crowds were convinced that the lines were still live, and each person gin- gerly stepped over them, grinding progress to a halt. When they finally reached the other side of the bridge, they saw an old maternity hospital that had been transformed into a military one. It was on fire, and the staff were throwing wounded soldiers, often with missing limbs, down to the street. Those running past were ordered to stop and help, but they ignored the command. Heinrich's group moved past buildings that continued to burn, but less intensely as they continued away from the city. Once they passed Heidingsfeld, they met a driver from the fire service who agreed to bring them to Rheinberg, where Heinrich's uncles lived. Rheinberg was full of refugees eager to tell their stories, but Heinrich only wanted sleep. The uncles divided the family between them; it was finally over. 9:20 P.M., WURZBURG The city was an inferno. In the Ursulinengasse, a few minutes from the central Domstrasse, one woman took the fateful deci