at as the. city burned around them. Gertrud was among them, and they were the luck ones. The unlucky died in their living rooms or bedrooms, or out in the street They were buried alive by collapsing roofs, crushed by flying debris, or shredder by high explosives. In the morning, rescue workers had to collect hundreds ec charred and crumpled bodies. The only consolation was that it could have been far worse. The city's water mains had held under the strain of intense bombing A call went out to Düsseldorf, Duisburg, and Bonn, and before the bombing wa over, 150 fire departments sent equipment racing for Cologne. The casualties numbered 480, the highest figure yet but only 30 percent higher than Lübeck smaller city attacked by many fewer planes. The city itself was badly damaged but not levelled. 9 1 Göring and Speer On the evening of May 30, as fleets of squadrons were taking off for German Arnold, Eaker, Portal, Harriman, U.S. Ambassador John Gilbert Winant, and Dwight D. Eisenhower, who had just replaced a sacked Chaney as overall com mander of the European theatre of operations, were dining at Chequers. Arnold had arrived in the UK a week earlier to convince the British to allow aircraft shipments previously promised them by the Americans to be given to Eaker instead. The Americans at this point hoped for an early invasion of the Conti nent. At midnight, Churchill stood up and announced, "Gentlemen, at exactly this moment one thousand of our bombers are attacking Cologne!" He made a less dramatic, but equally important remark to Eaker that same night: "Perhaps your program is too ambitious."7 The prime minister was serving subtle notice of his opposition to the American plan for invading France early, putting for- ward instead his preferred option: an invasion through North Africa. At this point in the war, as Harris was hitting Cologne, the United States had only 1871 men in England-mostly ground staff-and not a single airplane.3 The next day, Winant sent an urgen