He spent a week in a dark I 253 cellar without medical attention. Kindly slave labourers gave him bread and moistened sugar. Several days later, an ambulance drove him to a mental hospital at Lohr am Main. American fighter pilots were rumoured to spray the roads with machine-gun fire by day, so the driver took safer back roads. Herbert's grandmother and brother had burned to death; she had pulled the child into her, and the two had melted together. She was so badly burned that she could only be recognized by the pattern of her blouse, burned into her skin. His mother suffered severe burns on the lower half of her body and was evac- uated. No one ever heard of her again.5 8 P.M., CENTRAL WÜRZBURG Heinrich Giesecke had spent the day at his great-aunt's. The windows and doors to her flat had been blown out in a previous raid, and Heinrich spent the day making the apartment habitable. He returned home relatively late. When the pre-alarm rang out, he, his brother, and his mother were in the apartment. They left their flat, rushed to the Domstrasse, and headed out of the city. As they were crossing the Old Main Bridge, the full alarm rang out; they heard the planes overhead and saw the pathfinders' markers. It was time to run. When they reached the cellar, there was only standing room. As they took their places, the 8:30 P.M. alarm sounded from the radio. In the cellar, Heinrich heard a whistle, saw a flash of light, and then heard an explosion. And again, and again. Within a few seconds of the first bombs, one landed near the cellar's exit; dust, plaster, and soil exploded into the cellar, wound- ing those near the door. The lights went out, and the radio came on. People in the cellar huddled closer together. After an explosion, they screamed. Heinrich noticed that something was burning; the air became warm and there was water in the cellar. One of the city's main pipes had burst; they had to leave. Heinrich threw a blanket around his mother, brother, and himself. They c