ransportation again at the top, followed by oil, making those the only two target systems (except when specific requests were made by the other forces). The directive left in the "important industrial areas" exception, but Bottomley modified the language to emphasize that these areas must be clearly linked with oil and transportation. Portal then wrote a gentle letter to Harris, encouraging him to implement the oil directive. He enclosed a document called "Notes on Air Policy to be adopted with a view to rapid defeat of Germany" which presented the American case in favour of the precision bombing of oil targets. The letter and notes hit Harris at a particularly bad moment. On Bottom- ley's note, he scribbled the words "here we go around the Mulberry bush." These notes would have angered him at the best of times, but on Tuesday, Octo- ber 31, another Air Ministry official had questioned his judgment. "Why" he asked Harris, "did you bomb Cologne last night?" The implication was clear: why did you not bomb oil plants? The combination of the two sets of criticism infuriated Harris, and he wrote back immediately. He began with an unapolo- getic defence of the bombing campaign: The war has already been vastly shortened by concentrating the bomber effort in the past three years against war potential industrial targets inside Germany .... A major reason for the success of the Russian offensives has been the destruction of the German war potential, and the chaos and con- fusion created in Germany by the heavy bombing campaign. . .. There is also no doubt that the walk-over which the armies experienced in the inva- sion of France, while mainly due to the destruction of communications in France, was also largely due to the general shortage of equipment and man power in the German forces, to which the general chaos in Germany, the past strategical bombing of Germany very heavily contributed.18 Whether he recognized it or not, Harris's argument had shifted importantly over the l