ies: Throughout the war, Allied airmen faced the prospect of a terrible death. Here, the wing of a U.S. bomber is sheared off by flak. ----  Private Collection Jack Pragnell (right) with his brother, Tom. Jack, RAF navigator in Operation Gomorrah, would survive the war. His brother would not. Bildarchiv Preussischer Kulturbesitz Bomber Command casualties: Over the course of the bombing war, eighty-thousand Allied airmen, most of them still boys, lost their lives. Bundesarchiv Koblenz Hitler with Albert Speer (at far right): From 1942 to 1945 there was a silent but furious struggle between Speer, on the one hand, and Arthur Harris, Ira Eaker, and Carl Spaatz, on the other. Private Collection Senior National Socialist officials in Würzburg, 1934.  Private Collection Heinrich Giesecke (right) and his brother in old Würzburg. Würzburg after its 1945 destruction. Private Collection Staatsarchiv Bremen A dead city: An American soldier surveys the remains of Nuremberg. Allied soldiers entering Germany were first awed, then dismayed by the endless devastation. Bremen: Inmates clear out Senator Bernhard's house follow- ing a raid. Forced labourers were denied entry to air raid shelters and were ordered to provide relief during and clear rubble after the bombings. VI U.S. National Archives  Bildarchiv Preussischer Kulturbesitz 21 Oil and baby killing O n June 7, 1944, Portal was sent a message from Luftwaffe Operations Staff that ULTRA had intercepted. It read: As a result of renewed encroachment into the production of a/c [aircraft fuel] by enemy action, the most essential requirements for training and carrying out production plans can scarcely be covered with the quantities of a/c fuel available. In order to ensure the defense of the Reich and to prevent the readi- ness for defense of the GAF [German Air Force] from gradually collapsing, it has been necessary to break into the strategical reserve.1 Portal was above all a pragmatist. He had once believed that area bombing wo