after the meeting. Brereton received an official letter: "The Commanding General, USSTAF, will exercise control of all administrative and training matters per- taining to the Ninth Air force and will assume direct responsibility to higher headquarters for the proper performance of those functions."14 If Brereton thought of objecting, he didn't for long; Spaatz's administrative control of the Eighth and Ninth gave him power over promotion. Spaatz was gaining full control of American air forces, but not of the capri- cious north European weather. To help him understand it, he enlisted the help of yet another eccentric professor, Irving P. Kirk of Cal Tech. Kirk researched fifty years of European weather patterns, leading right up to February 1944, and theorized that weather patterns repeated themselves.15 On February 18, he rang Spaatz with his findings: on February 20, a high-pressure system would settle over central and southern Germany and it would last for several days. Spaatz leapt on the news and gave Anderson permission to schedule a maximum strike on the morning of February 20. He still faced opposition outside the air forces-Churchill refused to transmit a cable to Eaker requesting help from the Fifteenth and doubts were raised about the P-38s-but Spaatz, with Anderson urging him on, refused to be knocked off course.16 Spaatz and Anderson were staking the entire American armed forces on the musings of an obscure and probably nutty professor. The price of this folly seemed to become clear on the evening of February 19. Heavy clouds hung over England and reconnaissance flights to Germany could find no break in them. The next morning promised icing conditions. Doolittle recommended post- poning, and William Kepner, the leader of Eighth Fighter Command, agreed. Anderson, ever the risk-taker, argued the opposite, urging Spaatz on and assuring him that the operation was worth two hundred bombers. Spaatz stayed up all night listening to the conflicting advice of his