ombined raids on synthetic oil plants. | 197 All oil production ceased, and the plant was occupied by the Soviets a few days later.83 As the Americans hammered oil targets, Speer urged a massive transfer of resources to protect these targets. Aviation fuel and airplanes had to be con- served. Fighter protection had to be increased. More flak defence was needed, "even at the expense of the protection of German towns." Speer got Hitler to agree to the training of two thousand pilots.84 He and Galland had calculated that one fighter would be needed to bring down one bomber, but that the cost of replacing bombers and their pilots was much higher. As in the Blitz, the defending fighters would have the advantage: they could return to duty once they parachuted to German soil, whereas Allied pilots would become POWs. This advantage, thought Speer, might just be enough to do it. On August 10, all of this was thrown into question. Galland, clearly upset, called and asked Speer to fly with him to headquarters. Without warning, Hitler had suddenly ordered the transfer of fighters from hydrogen plants to the West- ern Front. Together, Galland and Speer visited Hitler. Speer spoke first. "I," he later wrote, "began by . .. explaining the catastrophic situation in armaments production. I cited figures and sketched the consequences that would follow from continued bombings." Every available fighter in Germany, Speer argued at length, would be needed to combat the bombers. Hitler became nervous and angry. His hands fluttered. He chewed his fin- gernails. His face flushed a deep red when Speer stopped. And then he exploded. Screaming at the top of his lungs, he turned on Speer. "Operative measures are my concern! Kindly concern yourself with your armaments! This is none of your business." Then, without letting either man reply, he threw them out. "I have no time for you." The next day, Hitler summoned them back. His rage, if anything, was more out of control. He spoke quickly, his an