intervention. For those who believed that Britain was mainly bombing industries, there was no end of official statements to confirm it. Activists such as Brittan were rare, and they were viewed as extreme if not trea- sonous. No country had ever been bombed on the scale that Germany was being bombed, and it would have been difficult to imagine exactly what it was like for civilians on the ground. After the war, many pilots and other aircrew would admit that, in the air and under a barrage of flak, they thought little about the civilians in the cities as they bombed them. If the tens of thousands of feet between aircrew and civilians created moral distance, how could the six hundred miles between London and Berlin not? Imperial War Museum London The Air Ministry sat in a large, sandstone corner building at Whitehall. It was a slightly bombastic, largely interwar structure. The Air Ministry issued bomb- ing directives and oversaw the bombing war. It was also responsible for RAF publicity, issued press releases, and provided instructions on what could and could not be said to the press. On October 21, 1943, Air Commodore Howard Williams had been authorized by the ministry to write a story for the Daily Tele- graph on the bombing campaigns from the previous July. "Bomber Command's nightly average on Germany," Williams wrote, "was equal to the Luftwaffe's effort for the whole 100 days on Britain [during the Blitz]. .. . the total load on 35 of our larger-scale raids was 50 tons more than the Luftwaffe's greatest effort  152 | FIRE AND FURY What the British knew against Britain"-450 tons on Coventry in 1940. "The campaign," he continued, was providing "direct help to Russia": When Gen. Smuts stated this week that some 2,000,000 people were engaged in Germany in meeting our air offensive in some form or other, he more than confirmed Sir Archibald Sinclair's estimate that some 750,000 were employed in active defences and another 750,000 on the passive side. In addition hund