, Erich Brandenberger's 7th Army broke through American lines and pushed toward Luxembourg. After advanc- ing for four miles, however, divisions of the U.S. VIII Corps blocked them, and held the new front. In the centre, the Americans were overrun. General Hasso von Manteuffel's 5th Panzer Army broke through. His tanks pressed forward in a deep cut of some  FIRE AND FURY 224 Portal pleads 1 sixty-five miles, making it within a few miles of the river Meuse.9 Manteuffel surrounded two regiments of 106th Infantry Division. Almost eight thousand men surrendered to the Germans, the greatest American setback of the war in Europe. Manteuffel pushed on to encircle the entire IoIst Airborne Division and ordered its general, Anthony Mcauliffe, to surrender. Defiant, McAuliffe gave a one-word reply: "Nuts." He scribbled the word on a paper, which was delivered to the Germans. They didn't know what it meant. Spaatz was in Paris, at the USSTAF's new headquarters there, when he got word of the German counteroffensive. Wild rumours about Germans in Allied uni- forms infiltrating the city circulated. Spaatz's deputy, Major General Hugh Knerr, recommended that the headquarters be locked down, streets around it blocked off, and sentry boxes set up. Spaatz didn't take this suggestion, but he was-as he later said-"caught off balance" by the German counterattack. 10 He quickly recovered, however. Spaatz directed two of the Eighth's fighter groups to find proper Continental airfields on which to base themselves." He put them under the direct command of Major General Hoyt S. Vandenberg, the young and handsome Maxwell Field graduate who had become commanding general of the Ninth Air Force in August. The rest of the U.S. bombing force- two-thirds of it-stayed west of the Rhine and awaited Spaatz's orders. On December 18 and 19, the Eighth braved atrocious weather in England to send out missions over the Ardennes, but equally foul weather shielded German troops from most of the bombing. On D