ed with honours, and enjoyed suc- cessful postwar careers. President Truman personally signed a bill making Arnold the air force's only permanent general. Across the United States, roads, schools, airports, and bases bear these men's names. They felt they had little to regret about the war over Germany, but-unlike Harris-came close to admitting that they did. Near the end of his life, Spaatz looked back on American bombing: "We never had as our target in Europe anything except a military target-except Berlin." 4 The aircrew who, against the odds, survived headed home. Lasting friendships between comrades-and also between former enemies-formed after the war. For only an airman, whether German, American, Canadian, or British, could understand what it really had been like. There were moments when this had been clear even in pitched battle. After a bombing run, a German fighter was closing in on a B-17 from the 348th Squadron, 99th Bomb Group, machine-gun fire blasting at the bomber's wings and cockpit. Jules Horowitz, the pilot, reached for the flare gun in the ceiling of the cockpit to shoot at the fighter. Jules for- got to turn off the gun's safety, and the fighter simply missed. When the fighter saw Jules' hand in the air, from about forty feet, he thought he was waving; the German waved back.5 After the war, the contact was more than fleeting. On the fiftieth anniversary of the October 1943 Schweinfurt raid, two Germans, Dr. Helmut Katzenberger and Vomar Wilckens, attended the reunion in New Orleans of the Second Schweinfurt Memorial Association (SSMA) to give a presentation on the raid. In 1996, the SSMA members invited more of their for- mer enemies to the reunion in Las Vegas. They included Georg Schaefer, whose grandfather founded one of the targeted ball bearings factories and who worked in a flak battery in Schweinfurt. At the Americans' suggestion, a joint American- German war memorial was erected at the site of an air-raid shelter in Schwein- furt. The cit