de up of Air Staff, Foreign Office, MEW , and USSTAF representatives) to look at morale. At the end of the month, they both reported. The joint com- mittee concluded that "Germany will be unable to continue the struggle beyond December given intensive fighting on three fronts and the continued success of Allied air attacks." Thanks to bombing, the report noted, Germany was con- suming 300,000 more tons of oil each month than it produced. This was fact. At the same time, the working committee offered its recommendations. On July 22, the committee argued that the point of a morale attack was "to influence the minds of the German authorities in such a way that they prefer organized surrender to continued resistance." The target for a morale-busting campaign would be Berlin. A few months after Harris's five-month-long effort to "wreck the city from end to end," the committee promised that twenty thousand bombs delivered in a four-day and three-night round-the-clock bombing raid would disrupt government services, destroy communications, and lead to an overall breakdown of morale. This was fiction. Two nights later, Harris launched just such a campaign on a different city. Over four nights-from July 25 to 29-Stuttgart was flattened. From the twelfth century, the city had grown up in a series of narrow valleys. Its old city core 193 centred around the castle, the city hall, and the market square. Elegant, densely packed businesses, set alongside houses with sloping roofs, radiated out from the core. At 1:38 A.M. on July 26, 474 bombers razed the city.59 The first wave of high explosives destroyed the city hall, and knocked out the waterlines under the mar- ket square. The houses burned and collapsed, burying the remaining water hoses. By morning, the palace was an empty shell, 885 people were killed, and 87 per- cent of the city was gone. Stuttgart joined an ever-growing list of dead cities. The following week, on August 3, the working committee presented its final draft t