Berlin. Hitler's propaganda minister, Goebbels, wanted him. Goebbels set Speer to work on the renovation of Schinkel's Leopold palace on the Wilhelmplatz. When Speer was finished, Goebbels loved it. So did Hitler. Speer's career took off. Commissions poured in daily, including one for a May 1 mass rally at the Tempelhof football field, now Tempelhof airport. Hitler stood on a wooden platform; behind him were three massive flags- swastikas at each end and the black, red, and white Reich flag in the centre. He was surrounded by dozens of soldiers, and the field was packed with thou- sands of spectators. It was the world's first taste of the haunting Nazi aes- thetic, and Speer was its author.18 Goebbels then had Speer renovate his official residence. Then Hitler com- missioned him to work on the Chancellor's residence. During the renovations, Hitler lived on the first floor, in a temporary apartment. He made frequent and unannounced visits to the worksite. On one of these, he suddenly asked Speer to lunch. Speer had entered the inner circle.19 The commissions continued to come in, and more and more they were offi- cial. Speer became chief designer of the Nuremberg rallies. There, on massive platforms, were huge perfectly symmetrical rows of men in black and brown T-shirts; 150 projectors 36 feet apart shot columns of light 6 miles into the sky; and 30,000 banners streamed into the arena. The effect was intoxicating, not least on Speer himself, who was both seducer and seduced.20 In Nuremberg's after- math, Speer was given the commission for the German embassy in London and the Olympic Stadium in Berlin. The young architect caught Göring's attention. The Reichsmarschall took him to his apartment behind Leipziger Platz, and told him to renovate it. "It must turn out like the Führer's."21 After his Nuremberg triumph, Speer set his sights on a glittering prize: the transformation of the Third Reich's capital. Hitler viewed the city with a mix of hatred and hope. He loathe