ior and a man who had worked his way through the RAF hierarchy, much as Harris had, from its earliest days. Harris's last paragraph, on abandoning his task, was equally ambiguous. He seemed to be sliding from a purely instrumental argument-that bombing Ger- many would end the war-to an absolutist one: that destroying all German cities was an end in itself. On November 2, the day after Harris wrote about his "vast task" of destroying Germany's remaining cities, the Eighth Air Force launched a routine raid on Germany. The Luftwaffe again surprised the Americans: a supposedly beaten force got five hundred fighters in the air. The escorts were there to protect the bombers-they shot down 102 German fighters-but the show of force took Spaatz aback. Combined with the broader Allied setbacks, it showed that the Germans were not yet conquered. "It has been increasingly evident," Spaatz wrote to Arnold, "that the GAF was being processed to become a major threat to our deep penetrations, in daylight, into Germany."The American victory over the Luftwaffe was "decisive," but only because of "almost perfect fighter cover" and "a fortunate chain of circumstances."20 Arnold agreed: the USSTAF had to get the German fighters off the Continent, once and for all. Spaatz's fears were confirmed on two further U.S. raids-on November 21 and 26, against Bremen-when the Luftwaffe responded with some five hundred fighters. The three November interceptions were the largest of the entire war.21 209 Under Speer's guidance, the Germans were clearly recouping after their devas- tating spring and summer losses.22 As Spaatz saw it, he had two options for responding to the Luftwaffe's seem- ingly renewed strength: reducing the number of bombers-to the point where adequate fighter cover could be provided-or increasing the number of bombers-sending out the maximum number of bombers on each mission.23 A larger mission might ensure that, even if large numbers of bombers were lost, enough would get past t