torical one over bombing with its opponents. He would receive qualified help from indi- viduals whose commitment to bombing, albeit bombing of a very different type, made them air purists in Harris's mould: the Americans. In December 1949, Bruce Simmons, a chauffeur, travelled to a modest ranch 1 near Sonoma, California. He was checking in on his employer, a U.S. general. When he entered the semi-darkened bedroom, he saw the general lying in bed. There was no sign of movement. Alarmed, he bent over and put his face very close to the general's, checking for any sign of life. Suddenly, the general's eyes opened and he roared, "What in the hell do you want?" Simmons bolted upright and jumped back. The general let out a loud laugh, and said, "You thought I was gone, didn't you?" This was Henry Harley ("Hap") Arnold, the commanding general of the U.S. Army Air Forces. At first meeting, one might be tempted to conclude that Arnold was the American alter ego of Harris. He was irascible, gruff, and at times crude. He was ruthlessly driven, and had no tolerance for those who adopted a more leisurely pace. He had even less tolerance for failure. One story about him is legend. On a Sunday in early March 1942, Arnold called a meet- ing to sort out a bookkeeping issue: he consistently had fewer planes than offi- cial tallies stated he should. A lower-level staff officer, Steve Ferson, "slowly and methodically" explained to Arnold that some planes were marked "accepted" (i.e., delivered) even though a part was missing. This was done because the manufacturer needed the money to produce planes for subsequent orders. When Arnold saw that his list of acceptances differed from Ferson's, he laid in to the hapless officer. Standing across the desk from him, Arnold thrust his head forward and screamed. As the harangue continued, Ferson's face turned 33  FIRE AND FURY 34 1 The Americans crimson and his veins bulged. He began to sweat profusely. Ferson opened his mouth, as if to defend him