t "was sure then," Hopkins wrote, "that we were going to get into war, and he believed that air power would win it."1 The U.S. Congress did not agree and would not provide the funds. With- out them, only two thousand planes were produced in 1939. All of this changed in early 1940, however. In May, as the Germans invaded the Low Countries. Roosevelt issued a public call for an annual output of fifty thousand planes- some twenty-five times the figure produced in 1939! Congress quickly provided the money. After spending years begging for funds to build a handful of bombers, Arnold-now chief of the Army Air Corps-found that "in 45 min- utes I was given $1,500,000,000 and told to get an air force."2 Arnold had the money; he now needed the power. In 1940, Roosevelt had appointed Harry L. Stimson his Secretary of War. Stimson was a Harvard- educated lawyer, the son of a Union soldier in the Civil War, and a member of upper-class New York. His upbringing emphasized the puritan virtues of work and abstention (though he lived very comfortably) and the not-uncommon early 41  FIRE AND FURY 42 1 Building the mighty Eighth twentieth-century view of war as a cleansing antidote to the soft materialism associated with American affluence.3 "Every man," he wrote in 1915, "owes to his country not only to die for her if necessary, but also to spend a little of his life in learning how to die for her effectively." One of Stimson's first acts was the appointment of a fellow New Yorker Robert Lovett, to the new position of Assistant Secretary of War for Air. Lovett was a wealthy stockbroker, an experienced pilot (he had flown Navy combat planes in the First World War), and a student of RAF administration. He had a talent for packaging his ideas and for handling difficult people, not least of whom was Arnold. "When I became impatient, intolerant, and would rant around, fully intending to tear the War and Navy Departments to pieces." Arnold wrote, "Bob Lovett would know exactly how to handle