ent driving the RAF's campaign. Visit Vienna, visit Darmstadt. and compare. If Bomber Command killed three civilians for every one killed by the USAAF, it is incredible that observers suggest there was little difference between the two campaigns. There was all the difference. To the end, the American campaign was affected by a peculiar concern for the moral implications of bombing. Many writers deny this, and Spaatz, Doolit- tle, and Eaker were keen after the war to disassociate themselves from the taint of morality. It's clear why: expressing moral concerns over women and children was at best unstrategic; at worst, it was unmanly. It is nonetheless impossible to read Eaker's impassioned plea to Spaatz over Operation Clarion, Doolittle's eleventh-hour attempts to save the centre (and the residents) of Berlin, or McDonald's February 21, 1945, denunciation of area bombing without seeing a deep and abiding moral concern. In a similar vein, the Americans also made a number of specific efforts to protect Europe's cultural heritage. Stimson, who viewed the war as a defence of European culture and values against fascist barbarism, took a direct interest in safeguarding cultural monuments. John McCloy of the War Department per- sonally appealed to Roosevelt to save Rothenburg ab der Taube, and he flew in person to American Army headquarters in Germany to secure Army support. His efforts paid off, and the city was spared. In August 1943, President Roosevelt agreed to the creation of the American Commission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments in Europe. One can only imagine Harris's reaction to an equivalent British body. Working closely with a very co-operative U.S. Army, the Commission drew up maps of cities and monuments that were 275 to be spared by the invading U.S. forces. Florence, Rome, Venice, and Tocello were never to be bombed without express authority. General Eisenhower sent his air force officers these instructions: If we have to ch