."34 The cars then picked up the guests and took them to the Berghof, where they had coffee and cake before the fireplace. The talk became trivial, and Hitler retreated into one of his friendlier worlds. He said nothing ever again to Speer about American bombing. Speer left the meeting and oversaw two weeks of feverish repairs. Production was just about at its former level. It was May 28, 1944. That day, Spaatz sent out more than four hundred bombers to attack synthetic oil plants at Ruhland, Magdeburg, Merseburg-Leuna, and Lützendorf. The results were devastating. At Merseburg-Leuna, Italian forced labourers added to the chaos by adding fuel to the flames.35 The results of the May 28 raid were more devastating than on May 12. The two blows halved German oil production. As Speer wrote, "Our pessimistic statements at Obersalzberg had thus been fully confirmed only five days later, and Göring's bluster had been refuted."36 Looking back at the campaign after the war, Galland noted that "it is difficult to understand why the Allies started this undertaking so late, after they had suffered such heavy losses in other opera- tions. Right from the start fuel had been the most awkward bottleneck for [Ger- many's] conduct of the war."37 The oil campaign was "the most successful operation of the entire Allied strategical air war" and the "fatal blow for the Luftwaffe."38 A further Ploesti raid occurred almost exactly a week before a vast armada of troops landed at Normandy, with more than six thousand planes-from Bomber, Fighter, and Coastal Command, the Second (tactical) Air Force of the RAF, and the Eighth and Ninth American air forces-flying overhead. They  FIRE AND FURY 180 1 were prepared for bitter resistance from the Luftwaffe, but none came. Only 320 aircraft-making odds of 1 to 20-were there to meet them.39 The air forces' support for ground troops was impressive, but their greatest contribution to Normandy occurred well before June 6, 1944. Over five months, they had