old Anderson, was thirty minutes. At 6:40 A.M., the weather had cleared somewhat, but not much. Anderson had to decide whether to call off the whole thing, send up LeMay's force alone, or take the risk and send up both forces together. None of the options was appealing. Sending them together would lead to crashes. Delaying the mission might be career suicide, as Arnold was demanding results. And sending only one of the forces would mean that Regensburg's chief advantage-as a diver- sionary raid to draw off Luftwaffe fighters, thereby allowing the other planes to bomb Schweinfurt more effectively-would be lost. Under enormous pressure, Anderson made his call: he ordered LeMay to prepare for immediate takeoff, and had Williams delay. LeMay put down the phone and ran to the car standing outside his headquarters. The car sped along the fourteen miles between Eighth Bomber Command's headquarters and Snetterton Heath, the base of the 96th Bomb Group. When he arrived, LeMay got out of the car in his flying clothes and his driver carried his parachute and kit to the plane. Archie Olds, who had intended to fly the lead aircraft, asked LeMay, "What in the hell are you doing here?" LeMay was there to lead the mission. Imperial War Museum London Under heavy fighter attack between Antwerp (when the escort fighters left the bombers) and the Alps, LeMay pushed on. Emergency hatches, exit doors, pre- maturely opened parachutes, airplane parts, and bodies shot past them in the slipstream.16 LeMay soldiered on. The target was hit successfully and Regens- burg itself was untouched. LeMay's force suffered high losses-twenty-four aircraft, or 16 percent of the planes that went out-but he remained undaunted. "We have never turned back from a target and never will be turned back from the target," he said a few weeks after the raid.17  126 1 FIRE AND FURY Speer's nightmare A full four hours after LeMay's bombers had taken off for Regensburg, some two thousand men of the Ist Bombardment Win