ually succeed, the most shattering and devastating blow will have been delivered against the very vitals of the enemy. Carr paused, and then read the last sentence: "Let him have it. Right on the chin." That night, more than nine hundred bombers reached Cologne. Wave after wave hammered the city. Forty-five minutes into the raid, one pilot, Micky Martin, could not believe his eyes as he approached the vast red glow ahead of him. He flew in low-at four thousand feet. The fires seemed to lick his wings as he flew past the silhouette of the great Dome, rising above the rubble around it. Martin crossed the city three times, wondering whether it was worth it to drop his bombs. Cologne | 69 At last, he dropped them on the city's battered railway station, just several feet from the Dome itself. As the fires raged, Cologne's fire and air defences lost control of the city. Searchlights criss-crossed the sky aimlessly, unsure of which of the hundreds of airplanes to trap in their glare. The flak guns began to run out of ammuni- tion, and one by one they fell silent, leaving Cologne almost defenceless. Almost, but not entirely. Bomber Command lost forty aircraft over Cologne. One of those was piloted by a quiet, shy young man from Manchester named Leslie Manser.4 Manser's plane and its seven-member crew were "coned" (trapped in searchlights) over Cologne. As Manser tried to shake the lights, flak guns sprayed the underbelly of his plane, wounding the rear gunner. He dived from seven thousand to one thousand feet. Manser could have then ordered a bailout, but he feared the consequences for his crew of going down over Ger- many. Instead, he brought the airplane up to two thousand feet. The port engine burst into flames. The airplane was losing speed and altitude fast. Smoke began to billow into the cockpit. Manser ordered the bailout. The plane was bucking against him, but he held the controls tightly, keeping it stable enough for a safe jump. The other six members bailed out su