e method is still in use.26 In 1919, Cherwell took up a chair in experimental philosophy and became director of the Clarendon library. He saw Nazi Germany for what it was ear- lier than most people in the UK, and he urged preparation for war. In the 1930s he was also active in helping distinguished Jewish scientists escape Germany. In the summer of 1933, Cherwell visited Germany to interview scientists and made his recommendations to the UK Academic Assistance Council. With Cherwell's help, more than a dozen scientists found positions in Britain. They included Albert Einstein, who became a fellow at Christ Church-Portal and Cherwell's college. In the college's senior common room (faculty lounge) there is a book of present and former college fellows. In it, not far from Cherwell himself, the casual observer stumbles across the familiar uprush of white hair. In a very Oxonian way, the photograph is neither distinguished nor marked in any par- ticular manner, and does not even have the great scientist's name below it. Although kind to those closest to him, Cherwell could in no way be described as sociable. His foreign origins and the widespread belief that he was Jewish (mann being a common name ending among German Jews) likely created a wall between him and other students (Christ Church's quaint name for fellows) at his college. For his part, Cherwell was rigid and unforgiving. All those who worked with him-first at Christ Church and later in government-had to be careful. Cherwell shared with Harris more than a passion for bombing; both saw little difference between constructive criticism and personal slight. Those who crossed 1 55 him, whatever their motive, were never forgiven. One evening in the late 1920s, a Christ Church don, Roy Harrod, brought an economics colleague in for dinner. Harrod's colleague ventured a figure on the value of British exports; Cherwell offered another. The matter was subsequently looked up, and my colleague wrote to the Prof. to acknowled