suggested there wasn't much point: "Even if the plant was destroyed, I am not clear that it would really help the vic- tims." (Eden scribbled next to this: "He wasn't asked his opinion of this; he was asked to act.") Sinclair ended the note by suggesting an alternative: "I am pro- posing to have the proposition put to the Americans, with all the facts, to see if they are prepared to try."28 They weren't. McCloy had already blocked the proposal on July 4. "The War Department," he wrote to Pehle, "is of the opinion that the suggested air oper- ation is impracticable. It could be executed only by the diversion of consider- able air support essential to the success of our forces now engaged in decisive operations and would in any case be of such very doubtful efficacy that it would not amount to a practical project."29 McCloy maintained for decades that the decision was his own, but in 1986, he attributed it to Roosevelt. "I remember talking one time with [the president] about it and he was irate: 'Why the idea! They'll say we bombed these people, and they'll only move down the road a little . . . We'll be accused of participating in this horrible business."30 There is no written record of the conversation. In August, the Poles launched the Warsaw uprising in the futile hope of lib- erating themselves from the Germans before the Soviets reached the city. Two full RAF squadrons, relying on volunteers, flew missions supplying the Poles for six consecutive days. Flying from Italy, they passed over Auschwitz on their way to the Polish capital. During the same month, the debate over bombing Auschwitz continued. On July 26, unaware of the Americans' rejection of the idea, the Air Ministry planned to raise the issue with Spaatz. A week later, Bottomley reported that he had been "most sympathetic," but wanted more information about the "precise location, extent and nature of the camps and installations at Birkenau." The Ministry passed a request for photographic intelligence to