st of the river." 67  68 1 FIRE AND FURY Some of the men wondered which of these would be the target. I he engineering works? The train station' The factories across the river from the centre of Colognes The men of "shiny 10." as the squadron was known, were veterans of precision bombing. During the Battle of the Barges, they had attacked the Channel ports of Lorient, Le Havre, Antwerp, Cherbourg, Bologne, and Calais. Against a barrage oc flak, they had taken out moving barges of the German invasion fleet.2 Tonight, how ever, they would bomb neither ships nor factories. The Air Vice-Marshal gave the floor to an intelligence officer, a small, pink faced man who unveiled a large map of the city, raised his cue, and let it resto a point not far from Cologne's famous Dome. "The central point is right here At the Neumarkt. Look carefully. It's just this western side of the river." It wa the heart of residential and cultural Cologne. A few of the men looked at each other, but no one said anything. The intelligence officer gave the floor back to Carr, who pulled out a piece of paper and read a statement direct from Harris himself. This was unusual and the men listened carefully. "The Force," it began, of which you are about to take part tonight is at least twice the size and more than four times the carrying capacity of the largest Air Force ever before concentrated on one objective. You have the opportunity therefore to strike a blow at the enemy, which will resound, not only throughout Germany, but throughout the world. In your hands be the means of destroying a major part of the resources by which the enemy's war effort is maintained . .. Press home your attack to your precise objectives with the utmost determination and resolution in the full knowledge that, if you individually succeed, the most shattering and devastating blow will have been delivered against the very vitals of the enemy. Carr paused, and then read the last sentence: "Let him have it. Right on the chin