e co-pilot in one of the B-17s. He had flown his first mission the day before, as part of an American raid on the le Bourget airport at Paris. As the bombing formation came toward the tar- get, a small number of fighters turned on them. As they opened machine gun fire, the wings lit up, and looked like long neon tubes. The formation blasted past the fighters with no difficulty. "We were young and confident," Wilbur observed six decades later, "and I thought, This is a piece of cake." Schweinfurt would be anything but. At Eupen, Wilbur watched the P-47 escort fighters turn away. They were on their own. Almost immediately, pilots in the leading aircraft made out black dots coming toward them, seemingly straight on. They were German Luftwaffe fighters, dozens of them, bearing down on the B-17s. Within seconds, the Germans were all over them. They flew straight at the Americans, all guns blazing. Out for blood, the fighters attacked | 127 mercilessly. They fired upside down. They fired as they did mid-air rolls, bearing down on the B-17s. American pilots saw dozens of aircraft sailing right at them and then, at the last second, diving and shooting past. "I witnessed," a waist gunner in the 384th Bomb Group later reported, "something that mankind will never see again . . . a parachute invasion of Germany. There were planes in flat spins, planes in wide spins. Planes were going down so often that it became useless to report them."20 The attacks would come in waves, every ten minutes or so. A group of fighters would finish their attack, land to refuel, and come back up again. "They kept coming and coming and coming," reported one navigator, "and we still had miles to go before the target."21 The bombers pressed on. Ineffectively trying to dodge the incoming fight- ers, they absorbed round after round of bullets from the front and flak from below. Flaming bombers fell away on all sides. By the time they reached the city's three ball bearings factories, thirty-two bombers ha