cy would be immensely costly: the obliteration of a single city would require up to seven hundred sorties, whereas Churchill and Ismay's plan assumed that only one hundred or so would be required. Seeing that Churchill was committed to the idea, he appealed for time: the Chiefs of Staff should be given the chance to think it over. Churchill agreed. The next day, Evill worked to kill the idea. He spoke with Tedder, who rejected the attacks as "wickedly uneconomical." He also had Coryton from  FIRE AND FURY 190 1 Oil and baby killing | 191 Operations Planning prepare a short report on the proposal. Coryton's report drew up a list of fourteen towns that could be destroyed by joint U.S .- British bombing:45 Wiesbaden, Mainz, Solingen, Saarbr端cken, Bielefeld, Freiburg, Bonn, Osnabr端ck, Koblenz, Kaiserslautern, Oldenburg, Worms, Pirmasens, and Speyer. The report concluded that attacking the towns would "have little effect upon the German war affect, is unlikely to impinge upon the confidence of the Ger- man High Command, and would impinge upon the morale of only some 1.9% of the population of Germany."46 It might actually have given the Germans the idea that the V-1 attacks were working (if not, why retaliate?). Most importantly, it would distract from the oil campaign: "the opportunities available for the prosecution of our strategic attacks against enemy oil production, which Intel- ligence suggests may well have a decisive influence upon Germany's military capabilities, are few. . . . If the proposed policy of retaliatory attacks is adopted in full it will mean the abandonment of many, if not all those opportunities over the next one or two months." Freeman added pencil edits to the list-Mainz had already been destroyed, and Osnabr端ck and Saarbr端cken had been "well-hit."-and attached it to his note. He concluded by saying, "I expect that you will wish to take steps to scotch this idea in the C.O.S. [Chiefs of Staff] on Monday"47 On July 4, Portal arrived at the meeting