ave incalculable effects on all future operations and the length of the war. And the opportunity, once lost, may not recur. Imperial War Museum London  FIRE AND FURY 132 | Speer's nightmare | Quoting directly from the British Intelligence Appreciation he circulated. Portal ended with a ringing endorsement of the American strategy: "The dou- bling of the German S.E. [single engine] fighter force on the Western front and the allocation of this increase to Belgium, Holland and Northwest Germany are attributable solely to the development of Allied day bombing of Germany. The defence of Germany against these attacks has in fact become the prime concern of the GAF ... There can be no doubt that Germany regards the defence of the Reich against daylight air attack as of such supreme importance that adequate support for military operations in Russia and the Mediterranean has been rendered impossible." If Arnold arrived at the meeting feeling beleaguered, he left victorious,39 Por- tal's views were accepted without substantial debate. Eisenhower returned the Eighth's three Bomb Groups of B-24s. Arnold himself set about increasing the number of service personnel in the Allied Air Forces. By December, forty-five thousand enlisted men and officers would arrive in the United Kingdom. After the conference, Arnold travelled to England. He arrived in good spir- its, and took the losses at Schweinfurt in stride. Employing a calculation that might have served Bomber Command well, he pointed out that a 15 percent loss in one raid was no worse than 5 percent over three.40 Arnold gathered two impressions while he was in England.41 The first was that his B-17s were taking a beating; in addition to the losses, those that returned had been ravaged by bul- lets and flak. The second was that the losses were worth it. He poured over British and American aerial photographs showing extensive damage to German industry. He was particularly impressed with the Schweinfurt photos. Although the raid w