ical weeks."9 Eisenhower agreed, and it was all over. Transportation, not oil, would be the primary target in the run-up to the invasion of the Continent. Imperial war iviuseum London Arthur Harris had been unusually quiet during the discussion. He naturally detested the transportation plan, as it was precision bombing par excellence. With his usual wit, he wrote to U.S. Assistant Secretary of War for Air Lovett that "our worst headache has been a panacea plan devised by a civilian professor whose peacetime forte is the study of the sexual aberrations of the higher apes. Starting from this sound military basis he devised a scheme to employ almost the entire British and US bomber forces for three months or more in the destruc- tion of targets mainly in France and Belgium."10 Bombing transportation, Har- ris told Spaatz, would "never work.""  FIRE AND FURY 174 | Germany's Achilles heel A few weeks before the March 25 meeting, Harris had pleaded with Portal in favour of all-out area bombing. "Any serious reduction of our rate at strik- ing at German production," he wrote, "will inevitably make possible industrial recovery which would, within quite a short period, nullify the results achieved by tremendous efforts during the past 12 months."12 Portal decided to call his bluff. On March 4, he ordered Harris to under- take precision raids on marshalling yards in France. The results were out- standing. On March 6-7, Bomber Command blasted railway tracks, rolling stock, and railway installations, doing "enormous damage."" The next night, the RAF dropped 300 bombs on railway yards at Le Mans; they destroyed 250 wagons, hit 6 locomotives, sliced through many railway lines, and burned out a store of railway sleepers.14 Only thirty bombs fell outside the target, killing thirty-one French people. Not a single aircraft was lost on either raid, and it was made crystal clear that Bomber Command was capable of a high degree of precision. Less obviously, the raids also showed that th