rrived with her were summoned for a roll call near the camp gate. They were: . .. afraid that it was our turn, because normally before dusk there were no transports to other camps. On the nearby road, which led to the sauna (bath house) and gas chambers a new transport, which had arrived from ghetto Lodz, passed by. There was no doubt where they were taken. . . . I ran ahead to my father in order to be together in what seemed to be our last hour. [Then,] Allied bombers appeared in the sky. It will be difficult to describe our joy. We prayed and hoped to be bombed by them, and so to escape the helpless death in the gas chambers. To be bombed meant a chance that also the Germans will be killed . . . We were deeply disap- pointed and sad when they passed over .. . Fortunately we were taken back to the barracks, after a search of our bodies. But we didn't speak about our unexpected return, only about the Allies' reluctance to bomb the gas chambers.38 The chance flyover of Allied bombers probably saved Shalom's life. As the Allies never tried, we will never know how many others the bombers might have saved. While the final chapter in the Jewish tragedy was coming to a close, Spaatz's overwhelming concern was oil. While he was bombing oil targets, the seductive if elusive target of morale was brought back onto the agenda. On June 21, 189 Harris-having forgotten his June 1942 prediction that "once we get a footing on the continent our last bomb will have been dropped on Germany"39-asked Portal to schedule a joint U.S .- Bomber Command daylight raid on residential Berlin. The backdrop was the failure of Bomber Command raids to stem the assault on London. Silent, unmanned missiles launched from the Continent sailed over London, then stopped and crashed down on the city. The military effect was negligible, but it was pure terror bombing and thousands of Lon- doners were dying.4ยบ Pressure for retaliation was growing and Churchill wanted something done. Under Harris's plan, two