r offensive in some form or other, he more than confirmed Sir Archibald Sinclair's estimate that some 750,000 were employed in active defences and another 750,000 on the passive side. In addition hundreds of thousands of workers are in the repair and ancillary industries. Many of these would otherwise be fighting the Russians. The article later added that "the effect of the night and day bomb offensive on events on the Russian front is known to be very appreciable." Williams went on to explain the difference between area bombing and preci- sion bombing. "Comparing our 'area bombing' by night [with precision bombing by day]," he wrote, "An RAF commentator pointed out that the enemy's cities were now great labour camps, employed almost solely on the war effort." The purpose of the night attack, he added, was to destroy Germany's capacity to wage war by "striking out of her hands the weapons she seeks to use against us." While it is not practicable at night to bomb precise targets, as by day, a very high measure of precision occurs over the target area. The effect is to smash not only arms factories and their satellites, but [also] the virtual bar- racks of those who work in them, driving sometimes literally millions to their shelters below ground. It has to be remembered that every man who works in these industrial "divisions" is only doing so because he is of more use to the enemy's war capacity than he would be as a soldier. At this point in the war, Williams concluded, Germany's aircraft factories were one of its "high spots," central to the war in general and the Russian campaign in particular: "We have long known that the German fighter force has been steadily increasing since last January. It is now disclosed that there are about a third more fighters now operating against Air Chief Marshall Sir Arthur Har- ris by night and Gen. [Ira] Eaker by day." The result was that massive numbers of fighters had been drawn off the Eastern Front. Of the 2750 fighters availab