livering the goods. The RAF's switch from precision bombing to area bombing in 1942 was based on more than the fact that precision bombing was, this early in the war, difficult. After all, they might have stopped bombing altogether, saving the lives of both Allied aircrew and German civilians. It was instead based on the theory that area bombing would deliver results. Before Hamburg, this was an untested theory; at Hamburg, the theory was fully tested. The raid achieved a level of destruction that was unmatched until then, and only matched again in early 1944. The statistics are and were staggering: 40,385 buildings were obliterated, including 60 percent of Hamburg's residential accommodation; 3785 industrial plants were destroyed, as were 7190 small businesses, two-thirds of the city's retail stores, 83 banks, 379 office buildings, 112 Nazi party offices, 13 public utility premises, 22 transport premises, 76 public offices, 80 military installations, 12 bridges, 24 hospitals, 277 schools, 58 churches, 77 cultural institutions (operas, cinemas), and I zoo. Perhaps most impressive were the human consequences: 42,000 died, and another million fled the city. The extent of death and destruction exceeded that of Dresden. Little wonder (though these figures probably exceeded even Harris's hopes) that champagne bottles were cracked open at High Wycombe. If any area raid were to knock the Germans out of the war, it would have been Hamburg. There is no question that the bombing slowed the place down. By the end of 1943, 35 percent of the city's workforce was not turning up at work, and 271 production was at 82 percent of its pre-bombing level. The problem was that most of the workers who left Hamburg found jobs elsewhere (making Hamburg's loss some other city's gain, and sparing the overall German economy). The U.S. official history estimates that the production loss for Hamburg, which suffered the most devastating raid of the entire war, was 9 percent of a month's productio