cure maxi- 217 mum effect on the Ruhr itself, and the quickest direct and indirect effect upon the Ruhr oil. Incidentally, I was delighted to see that you managed to attack the plant at DORTMUND last night without loss. As Portal was no doubt thinking, Harris had frequently "tested" the casualty rate if he felt a campaign important. For instance, during the early Battle of Berlin, in August 1943, Harris launched three raids with high losses before delaying the campaign. What Portal never did in these exchanges was order Harris to stop bombing cities. In this, he remained a product of Trenchard's bomber dream. The enthu- siasm that had sustained him throughout 1942 had long faded. He stopped believ- ing that bombing cities would win the war alone by the time of the Casablanca conference; by the end of the Battle of Berlin, he doubted that it would have much effect at all.36 By the summer of 1944, there was enough evidence to con- clude that area bombing was pointless. Yet, in his early November letter to Har- ris, he noted that "the destruction of Bochum as part of the Ruhr is of course very desirable." He also all but invited Harris to obliterate Gelsenkirchen ("a rel- atively undamaged built-up area [thrown] into the bargain"). It is impossible to know for certain what was going through Harris's mind as he read Portal's latest letter, but in all likelihood he recognized that he was running out of arguments. He decided instead to play for time. He did not bother to pen a reply for almost two weeks. Gladly responding to an American request for air support for the Army, Harris sent five hundred planes to destroy the medieval city of Düren. The bombing killed 3100 people, obliterated the city centre, and left only 130 out of 6000 houses standing. The smaller towns of Heinsberg and Jülich were also destroyed that night. Harris finally replied on November 24, 1944. It was one of many points dur- ing this months-long exchange at which he might have simply conceded that Po