tage by repeating these attacks every two weeks for another six to eight weeks. 3 . From October 1943, as the Germans attempted to rebuild, the Allies would launch two large and successive attacks every eight weeks. If this happened, he thought, industrial production would plummet in two months, and be brought to a standstill within four. Speer and his ministry were gripped with the fear that the Allies had developed a new strategy of repeatedly bombing five or six essential precision targets. Two weeks after the Hamburg raid, Speer's nightmare came true. On August 16, 1943,10 the men of the U.S. 351st Bomb Group were having beers at the RAF base at Polebrook, in Northamptonshire. They had only two each, since they might need clear heads in a few hours' time. As the beer was "bit- ter"-a flat, warm, and accurately named drink most Americans could not abide-few were tempted to drink more. They were in bed by 10 P.M. A few hours later, they were awoken. The orderlies screamed at them, and the exhausted men got out of bed and made their way to the mess, where they met good and bad news. The good news was that they were being served fresh rather than powdered eggs, and an unusually large number of cooks were there to pre- pare them to the men's liking. The bad news was that this could only mean one thing: they were being sent out over Germany. Imperial War Museum London At 2 A.M., in bomb groups across England, the men went to their briefings. It followed the same ritual everywhere, and used the British format. Each briefing took place in a classroom-like venue, with a large, covered map of Europe at the front. Once the men had taken their seats, the briefing officer removed the cover. Some men groaned and put their heads in their hands; others cursed, and a few  124 1 FIRE AND FURY 125 Speer's nightmare even stood up and shouted abuse. The marker showed a route from England deen into Germany, deeper than anyone had flown before, and then on to Africa. One formation was