at, while the start of the area campaign was probably inevitable given Britain's position in 1941-1942, its end was not. It is not the case that once area bombing started, it couldn't be stopped.48 On a general level, the public strongly supported bombing. This is no surprise; in war, gov- ernments and armed forces enjoy strong support unless they do something to squander it. The public on both sides of the Atlantic no doubt accepted that civilians would be casualties of war. But throughout the war, both American and British governments were mindful of a public reaction against the deliber- ate and indiscriminate killing of civilians; it was this concern that so frustrated Harris. If the public had been gung-ho about city bombing, there would have been no reaction to Cowan's February 17 dispatch on it. It would have been rou- tine. As it was, civilian and military leaders on both sides of the Atlantic scram- bled to deny it. When Cecil King, a senior executive at the London Daily Mirror (tabloids, whatever else they are, are tuned in to the public mood), heard of the dispatch, he exclaimed, "This is entirely horrifying ... it gives official proof for everything Goebbels ever said on the subject."49 Public opinion would probably have recoiled at the idea of an end to all bombing, but it would hardly have reacted to the closing of an area bombing campaign that governments only half- admitted was occurring. 283 This is not to lay everything at Harris's door. He did not invent area bombing; he was not the first in the RAF to endorse it officially, Portal was. Under Portal's lead, the Air Staff gave it support, seeing the killing of skilled workers as one of its chief advantages, throughout 1942 and, in a more qualified way, much of 1043.5ยบ All along the way, Harris had strong if erratic support from Churchill. Many other high-level officials were prepared to turn a blind eye. This, however, is as far as it can go. Harris was not behind the February 1942 directive initia