7s blasted through the fighters. As the bullets pelted them from the front, flak hit them from below. The airplanes, and men, shook. Hot shrapnel blasted through the bottoms of the planes, killing some men and castrating oth- ers.36 By the time it returned to England, the Eighth Air Force had lost thirty- seven bombers and eighteen fighters. But they had again exacted so heavy a toll on the Germans that, three nights later, the Luftwaffe stayed on the ground dur- ing a precision raid on Berlin. Over the course of the March 1944 raids, the Americans suffered terrible losses-153 bombers in just 3 raids-but they imposed equally terrible losses: 40 to 50 German fighters per raid. By the time the Americans paused, they had destroyed almost all of Germany's existing night fighters, seven hundred night fighters that were in production, and three-quarters of all manufacturing facilities. It was, as Speer's biographer put it, "very nearly the end of the Luftwaffe."37 Imperial War Museum London  20 1 Germany's Achilles heel 0 il had been on target lists from the earliest days of the war, but the major refineries were out of the range of early RAF bomb runs and the few raids on closer targets produced little. In February 1944, Spaatz became a convinced advocate of new attacks on oil. As air attacks on the Luftwaffe produced early results, Spaatz ordered the formation of a USSTAF planning committee to consider future targets. With Spaatz urging them on, the committee produced a report on March 5. It called for combined RAF-American attacks on oil targets across Germany and into central Europe. If fourteen synthetic oil plants (which extracted oil from coal) and thirteen refineries could be destroyed, 80 percent of German production and 60 percent of readily usable refining capacity would be destroyed. Imperial War Museum London Spaatz's urgency was driven by the British as much as the Germans. Solly Zuckerman, who had been fully behind Spaatz's attacks on the Luftwaffe, had bee