f you allow your obvious doubts in this direction to influence your conduct of operations I very much fear that the prize may yet slip through our fingers. Moreover, it is difficult for me to feel that your staff can be devoting its maximum thoughts and energies to the accomplish- ment of your first priority task if you yourself are not wholehearted in support of it.31 With each exchange, Harris felt less and less inclined to soften his blows. He was offended by the suggestion that he did not follow orders and above all by the idea that his staff responded to his views rather than his orders. He penned a long letter to Portal-almost twice as long as the one sent to him. As he did, he became angrier: with the experts who knew nothing about bombing, with the  FIRE AND FURY 230 1 Portal pleads T Americans who had so long stood in the way of his campaign, with the Army for its many diversions (including the current one at Ardennes), and with Portal, the erstwhile backer of city bombing. Harris dismissed out of hand the suggestion that his men might be affected by his views on strategic bombing, and his con- tempt for the MEW. Reacting to Portal's argument that only a small number of plants-fewer than twenty-were hit, Harris replied: I have certainly not overlooked the fact that the majority of output comes from the limited number of major plants. The point I tried to make clear was that I do not believe the M.E.W. know anything at all about the num- ber of Benzol plants, or even oil plants for that matter. . . . I am certain that no feasible scale of destruction of oil plants and Benzol plants will vitally affect the carriage of essential supplies forward to their armies,32 As he crafted his reply, Harris reflected on the follies that had so often been held up as the final key to victory. Remember fighter jets? The attacks against the German fighter forces and industry last year are outstanding examples of the futility of panacea seeking. After all that vast effort agai