ions, all the stuff we'll need. Understudy the British and work out the plans. Then I'll get you some bombers and crews. You'll be in charge of the Eighth Air Force Bomber Command." The news surprised no one more than it did Eaker. He had never even been in a bomber. "Bombers!" he exclaimed. "But I've been a fighter all my life." "That's why I'm giving you the job," Arnold replied. "I want you to put some fight into the bombers." Seeing that he had no choice in the matter, Eaker asked, "What do I do for staff?" "I can spare you two or three good men," Arnold answered. "Beyond that I suggest you find yourself some civilians. You take a smart civilian, you can make  FIRE AND FURY 46 | a smart officer out of him in six weeks or so. But if you take a dumb officer you'll never make him a smart officer."20 That night, not yet used to the stars on his shoulders, Baker and his wife Ruth, accompanied Arnold to a dinner for Portal and Harris. Wine flowed throughout the long meal, and over after-dinner drinks Harris subjected Arnold to a harangue on precision bombing. "I bloody well don't think you can do it," he began in a characteristically truc. ulent mode. "We tried it. We know. We even tried it with your Fortresses." Arnold, now accustomed to this argument, replied, "Sure. You tried it with one or two B-17s at a time. We don't plan to do it that way. We're going to send them out in mass formations." Harris was not to be moved. "It doesn't matter a tinker's damn what you send them in," he shot back. "The Boche have too many fighters, too much flak. too much bloody power against that West Wall to make it worth the losses. God knows, I hope you can do it, but I don't think you can." Turning to Eaker, he said, "Come join us at night. Together we'll lick them" Eaker, ever the gentleman, sought a compromise and in so doing produced a phrase that would become legend. "Yes," he said, "we'll bomb them by day. You bomb them by night. We'll hit them right around the clock."21 The st