housand RCAF graduates who served overseas were in Bomber Command. 1889 Hitler is born Nietzsche goes mad The controversy over the Canadian War Museum's decision-and, more importantly, the history behind it-is a window into questions that matter today. How can we judge the role that bombing played in the Allied victory? What role does morality play in the execution and evaluation of war? Does it make sense to apply today's moral standards to decisions taken in wartime? Joseph Goebbels famously said that "we all end up as the greatest heroes or the greatest war criminals." History, in other words, is written by the winners. How can we ensure, for this generation and subsequent ones, that Goebbels is not proved right retrospectively? 1918 Hitler weeps in an uncontrollable rage The Royal Air Force is formed The debate on the bombing war has carried on, with pauses, for decades, and it will continue. All authors would like to believe that their argument will be the last word on their topic of choice, but they know-or should know- that it won't be. As that debate rolls on, it is important to bear in mind that an evaluation of the effects and the morality of the Canadian, British, and Amer- ican bombing war can cast no aspersions on the bravery or sincerity of the young men who chose to serve in Bomber Command, still less on the memory of ten thousand Canadians who died over Europe. It is to their bravery and that of tens of thousands of others in the army and the navy that we owe our ability to debate these issues free from intellectual and political tyranny.  1943  1 1 The day Hamburg died July 27, 1943 A t 4:30 P.M., a young boy, Ernst-Günther Haberland, was playing in a bleak courtyard. His mother came to fetch him; they were going to the air-raid shelter early. She collected the family's most important documents, dressed her- self and her son in as many clothes as they could wear, and put a rucksack on his back. Her husband was at work and she could not get word to h