, "Enough! The less said the better."30 On February 23, a few weeks before Speer was able to transfer out of the hospital and away from Gebhardt's clutches, Milch came to see him. The Amer- icans, he told Speer, were concentrating their bombing on German aircraft indus- try, "with the result that our aircraft production would be reduced to a third of what it had been, for at least a month."" Speer decided he had to "leave noth- ing untried to help the hard-pressed Luftwaffe."32 Alexander Witzigmann was a seventeen-year-old Flakhilfer who manned one of Germany's great flak guns. He was one of 750 defending the heavily protected capital. Across the city, there were hundreds of searchlights, heavy gun batteries,  FIRE AND FURY 168 1 Taking out the Luftwaffe I flak towers, and rocket launchers (single guns). Operating together, they were capable of creating a ceiling of death over Berlin. On March 6, which came to be called Bloody Monday, Alexander watched a fifteen-mile-long parade of American bombers thunder across the capital. Wave after wave of fighters flew head-on into them. Flashlights coned them and flak blasted them. And yet they kept coming. "I was so frightened," Alexander later said, "by the display of strength by the enemy [that] I began to shake."3 Determined to defend the capital, Luftwaffe fighters lined up fifty abreast and flew head-on into the bombers. When they were within five hundred yards of them, they would fire a single half-second burst before pulling up violently. These daredevil, almost proto-kamikaze techniques cost the Americans dearly. By the time they were over Berlin, they had lost twenty bombers. The 100th Bomb Group had suffered particularly badly, losing one-half of its force. But it cost the Germans even more: American fighters, Mustangs, shot down between 70 and 170 out of 400 fighters. And though the ball bearings factory itself was hardly touched-many of the bombs hit the city, killing and maiming seven hundred people-the raid was