s only education was at the undistinguished Southeastern Normal School in Durham, North Carolina. What he lacked in education he did not make up for in physical appearance: Arnold was towering and handsome, Eaker short and balding. Eaker was nonetheless able to overcome these disadvantages. Whereas Arnold and Spaatz were the Army equivalent of spoiled Ivy League | 37 students yawning over their books, Eaker had a deep and abiding love of learning. Through sheer determination, he became an intellectual, an accomplished writer and speaker. His soft Texan accent and gentle demeanour made him appear the gentleman, Arnold the vulgarian. In the interwar years, what would become the United States Air Force would develop in tandem with the careers of Arnold, Spaatz, and Eaker. All three were dis- ciples of William "Billy" Mitchell, the American counterpart of Hugh Trenchard and the founding father of American air power.8 Mitchell had been the first American airman to arrive at the Western Front, the first to fly over enemy lines, and the first to be seduced by the promises of air power. The son of a U.S. senator, Mitchell was-like many bomber heroes after him-dashing, fearless, and flamboyant. He had fought in the Spanish-American War, dressed in sporting fashion, wore high cavalry boots and expensive tailored suits, and spoke flawless French. Mitchell took inspiration from his experiences on the Western Front- streaking forward over enemy lines in seconds while armies struggled to advance a few inches-and from the writings of Italian theorist, air commander, and fascist General Giulio Douhet. In Douhet's view, the advent of air power meant that the new wars would be offensive, short, "violent to a superlative degree," and targeted at the enemy's homeland. "It is not enough," Douhet wrote, "to shoot down all the birds in flight if you want to wipe out the species; there remain the eggs and the nest." Such war would be total and Cromwellian in its brutality: "Any distinction