that the British have no intention of invading France or Continental Europe."33 Arnold had the impression that  FIRE AND FURY 1 Speer's nightmare 1 Churchill was using an attack on precision bombing to divert attention from the subject of a Continental invasion.34 This might have been paranoia; some of his evidence came from a conversation between Marshall and Simmons that was overheard by his chauffeur.35 Arnold was in any case determined to put up a staunch defence of American daylight bombing. He found an unexpected backer in Charles Portal. On the opening day of the conference, August 14, Field Marshal Sir Alan Brooke, Chief of the Imperial General Staff, summarized the "present situation in the European theatre," and gave the floor to Portal.36 Exaggerating somewhat. Portal opened with the claim that "the German Air Force was now completely on the defensive ... [while] the United Nations Air Forces . .. were everywhere on the strategic offensive." Less than a year after pleading with Eaker to join the night offensive, Portal gave the RAF campaign short shrift. "The night offensive," he continued, "is steadily increasing. Radio aids to navigation had proven immensely effective. Certain steps are now being taken to baffle the defences which have resulted in a decrease in casualties from five-to-six percent to only three percent." This out of the way, Portal turned to the Americans: "The daylight bombing- the most important phase of all-is being extraordinarily effective. The first object of POINTBLANK was to knock out the fighter factories and to destroy fighter planes in the air to achieve complete mastery in the air over Germany. The forces available to the Eighth Air Force had done remarkable work but the program is behind schedule for reasons, however, which are quite understandable. The targets are being hit, the enemy aircraft are being shot down and a high percentage of the aircraft were returning safely, but it is a great battle which hangs in the balance