t the enemy has been fool enough to allow vital bottle-necks to persist even at this stage of the war. They are also dependent on the assumption that over a definite period of time, and quite a short time, those vital targets can all, or the major part of them, be destroyed before the enemy has time to disperse them, and thereafter be kept destroyed.6 Such a bombing effort would require most of the bombers and "all of the good weather." Even then the Germans would simply disperse their indus- tries. "Small oil plants," Harris argued, "especially those suited for M.T. [motor transport] and jet fuels, can be erected inside ordinary farm, village, town and city housing" with ease. Finding, much less hitting, them would be impossible. 1 237 But above all, Harris concluded, destroying oil targets would not do any good anyway: On top of all this the final factor is that Germany wants so very little in the way of fuel for the essentials with which to continue the fight defensively. It is those last essentials which I know will be so extremely difficult to find, to deprive her of, and to keep her deprived of. It is not good knocking out 75% of something if 25% suffices for essentials.7 And doing so would further distract Bomber Command from the single most important aim of the bombing war: The main factor which I fear is the abandonment of priority for area attack[s] with all the vast harm they have done to the enemy war machine, in favour of a type of attack which if it fails to achieve its objectives achieves noth- ing. Nothing whatever. Worse than nothing. Because it largely relieves the enemy of his worst problem-industrial area bombing. This we throw aside just as we near our long striven for goal of destroying the 50 leading industrial cities.8 The oil plan, like all precision plans before it, "is another attempt to seek a quick, clever, easy and cheap way out. It will prove to be none of these things. If only because the enemy is neither a fool nor an incompetent. We