ng the transportation plan would have required a massive, coordinated Ger- man defence. The Americans recognized this early on, as they tried to develop the capability to bomb aircraft industry in the Augsburg area. Doing so weak- ened the Luftwaffe and made "the Germans split their defences as well as their radar control by compelling them to protect from attacks from the south and [the] north."34 At the same time, the effects of bombing Germany's resource base were even more detrimental for the fronts than the transferred men and material. As Speer put it, "In the Luftwaffe, the shortage of liquid fuel became insupportable as from September 1944 onwards, since as from that date the allo- cation was cut down to 30,000 tons a month, whereas the monthly requirements amounted to between 160,000 and 180,000 tons. So far as the Army was con- cerned, the shortage of liquid fuel, which in this case was also due to supply dif- ficulties, first became catastrophic at the time of the winter offensive of 16th December 1944 and this was substantially responsible for the rapid collapse of the German defensive front against the Russian breakout from the Baranovo bridgehead. There were approximately 1,500 tanks ready for action but these had only one or two fuel supply units (Versorgunssätze) and were consequently immo- bilised."35 These were, of course, the oil raids that Portal urged and Harris | 279 ridiculed. After 1943, as precision improved, as daylight bombing became (thanks to fighter escorts) safer, and as area bombing failed to deliver on its promises, there was less and less reason to bomb German cities. Yet these were precisely the years during which the area bombing campaign reached its merciless climax. The failure of area bombing has led some to dismiss Bomber Command's role in the war. This too is a mistake, as area bombing was only part of what Bomber Command did. Throughout the war, it also devoted substantial resources to mine-laying and to strategic attacks on