already, has proceeded much further." The key was getting the Americans to co-operate. We have not got far to go. If they will only get going according to plan and avoid such disastrous diversions as Ploesti [Germany's main oil sup- plier] ... we can get through it very quickly. We can wreck Berlin from end to end if the U.S.A.A.F. will come in on it. It will cost us 400-500 aircraft. It will cost Germany the war. Over the next seven months, from August 1943 to March 1944, Bomber Command attacked the capital nineteen times; 10,813 bombers dropped 17,000 tons of high explosives and 16,000 tons of incendiaries, killing 9390 civilians. Two thousand, seven hundred aircrew died. As always, the bombs did much damage: the opera house in Charlottenburg, much of Potsdamer Platz, the villas of Potsdamer Strasse, many museums, all were destroyed. But Berlin was not "wrecked." It con- tinued to function as an administrative and commercial capital and the seat of a few industries. Although a few of the latter were "caught" by bombing, most bombs hit targets of no importance to the war effort; in some cases, bombing helped it: when retail shops, hotels, and other businesses unrelated to the military were destroyed, their workers were immediately transferred to more productive tasks.16 Hitler, famously, stayed in the city until the end. Berlin's solid, modern architecture, wide streets and open spaces (thousands of bombs landed pointlessly in the Tiergarten), and sheer size (nineteen times larger than Paris) meant that it could withstand bombing far more readily than Germany's older, more compact cities. Harris promised that an average monthly bomb tonnage of 13,500 would lead to the Reich's collapse; however, throughout the Battle of Berlin, he dropped a monthly average of 14,915 tons on German cities without bringing the country remotely close to collapse.17 As Alec Coryton, Assistant Chief of Air Staff [Operations] (and former AOC of 5 Group) noted in November, even if Berlin h