caused by the R.A.F. in Germany during 1942 make an interest- ing comparison. The City of London contained less than 120 acres of devastation. In Bomber Command's big raid on Cologne more than 600 acres were devastated. In Luebeck more than 40 per cent of the property, totalling more than 200 acres, had been destroyed or damaged beyond repair. The damage in Rostock was greater, in proportion to the total area, than in any other city, being about 70 per cent. No city in the world had a greater acreage of damage than Cologne. Other damage caused by the R.A.F. included: Duesseldorf, more than 380 acres; Mainz, 130 acres; Karl- sruhe, 360 acres; Emden, 60 per cent destroyed; Bremen, nearly 20 per cent; Aachen, 30 per cent (nearly 160 acres); Muenster, 260 acres devastated; and Nuremberg, 106 acres.3 The only discussion of people as distinct from buildings came on June 21, 1943. Most likely relying on Swedish reports on German morale, the Times' diplomatic correspondent wrote, 149 The signs are that German propaganda is now going to play up the R.A.F. attacks as vigorously as it had hitherto played them down. Goebbel's speech at Wuppertal on Friday, in which he described the sufferings of the victims of bombing, is now said to have broken the spell-meaning, presumably, that facts which have been suppressed are to be disclosed in the future. Hans Fritsche, the wireless commentator, said on Saturday of Goebbel's speech: "The spell was broken that had thus far lain over the sufferings of that part of our people which is exposed to these terror attacks." . . . Now all Germany was to be told of the sufferings and sacrifices of the bombed districts. . . . Large-scale evacuation from the Ruhr is taking place, and the housing of the refugees in what are regarded as safe areas is not prov- ing easy. Some of the bombed-out people have not been sympathetically received, and in the German Press there have been complaints of this lack of considerateness.4 With some imagination, Sincl