eer wrote, "[that] the war could largely have been decided in 1943 if instead of vast but pointless area bombing, the planes had concentrated on centres of arma ments production."18 For his part, Harris obviously recognized the importance of oil, steel, ball bearings, chemicals, and much else to the war effort, but he thought it pointless to single out any one of these as the magic bullet. Strangely, for a man who seemed so hostile to ideas, he took a much more subtle, abstract, and almost the oretical view of the German war machine. It was a complex and integrated machine in which the component parts depended on the operation of the whole Industries depended on people, people depended on food and infrastructure infrastructure depended on resources, resources depended on transportation. and transportation depended on industry. To target any one industry would be to overlook this interlocking structure. Attacking a factory here or there was like a pinprick. It hurt a bit, but healed quickly (factories were easy to rebuild). Bombing an entire city would take out everything in it and wreck the very com- plex, integrated machine on which Germany's ability to wage war depended. Added to this was the particular role of workers: without them, there could be no industry. As Harris put it, replacing a building takes a few months; replac- ing a worker takes twenty years. He saw little distinction between attacking the soldiers who occupied the battlefield and attacking the workers who armed them.19 If it was morally acceptable to starve the Germans in the hundreds of thousands (as the Allies did with their First World War blockade), how could it be immoral to attack them in their factories? Area bombing, Harris also argued, was a modern, almost civilized, way to fight, and one that particularly suited Britain's circumstances. "Involvement in land campaigns," he wrote to Churchill in June 1942, "especially Continental campaigns, serves but to reduce us to the level of the Hord