raining and their skill and determination in pressing home their attack will for- ever be an inspiration to the Royal Air Force. In this memorable operation they have won a major victory in the Battle of the Ruhr, the effect of which will last until the Boche is swept away in the flood of final disaster." He might as well have been looking Stafford Cripps right in the eye. While the United Kingdom was celebrating, Speer was making his way from Berlin to the Ruhr. As he inspected the Sorpe Valley reservoir, his fears were confirmed. The centre of the dam had taken a direct hit. The hole was just above water level. Had it been a few inches lower, the pressure of the water would have swept the dam away. With the two successful hits, the RAF "with just a few bombers [nineteen] . . . came close to a success which would have been greater than anything they had achieved hitherto with a commitment of thousands of bombers."10 The RAF had made one mistake: the Eder Valley dam had nothing to do with the water supply to the Ruhr. Still, Speer's relief that three dams were still standing was marred by a gnawing fear: when would the British be back? They wouldn't. Speer ordered seven thousand men from the West Wall to the Ruhr, where they feverishly repaired the dams. They erected vast wooden scaffolding across the breach in the Möhne dam and began cementing it in from the bottom up. Every night, they listened for the bombers. "A few bombs," Speer observed, "would have produced cave-ins in the exposed building sites, and a few fire bombs would have set the wooden scaffolding blazing." But they never came On September 23, 1943, just before the rains that would have flooded the valley again, the workers managed to close the breach. "The British air force," Speer sighed with relief, had "missed its second chance."" Harris did not have the benefit of Speer's views, and he in any case thought the advantage of the dambuster raids lay in their effect on Bomber Command morale and popular