z's orders. On December 18 and 19, the Eighth braved atrocious weather in England to send out missions over the Ardennes, but equally foul weather shielded German troops from most of the bombing. On December 19, Harris-at Eisenhower's request-sent Lancasters out to bomb rail targets at Trier in foul weather. The bombers destroyed the targets, though stray bombs killed sixty Germans, includ- ing thirty nurses who died when a bomb penetrated their cellar.12 Bomber Com- mand's success was the exception, however, and for three days the Germans enjoyed the advantage. It did not last. On December 23, a new ally-an area of high air pressure from Russia-came to the Americans' rescue. The thick clouds that had provided the Germans with essential cover cleared, leaving the troops exposed. Spaatz ordered an attack. On Christmas Eve, a vast armada of American bombers- made up of twenty thousand airmen-flew over the German troops and ham- mered them. The German formations were smashed; bridges, rail lines, and airfields were destroyed, and troops were limited to nighttime movement.13 Panzer grenadier units could not reach the front, supplies and reserves could not be 225 sent in by train, and even soldiers on bicycles found it impossible to get through wrecked railway towns.14 On that day, the Eighth Air Force dropped more tonnage than it had on any other day during the war.15 On the ground, the steady drone of incoming bombers made the Germans' already miserable task impossible. Unknown to the Allies, Manteuffel's stun- ning advance was handicapped by a key shortage: oil. Speer was only able to secure enough oil to supply each tank for two to three days. After that, they simply stalled. The result was that Manteuffel's advance began to thin as it moved forward. In the north, the 6th SS Panzer Army's Joachim Peiper and his "Kampf- gruppe" (a sort of ad hoc battalion with about eight hundred men) got as far as La Gleize in Belgium.16 As they advanced, Peiper's men murdered more t