Eighth Air Force Bomber Command was officially disbanded. Eaker, very much against his will, was pushed out and "promoted" to command Allied air operations in the Mediterranean. Major General James ("Jimmy") Doolittle (a hard rock miner, amateur boxer, daredevil stuntman, MIT Ph.D. in aeronautics, and hero of the first April 1942 bombing raids on Tokyo) was brought in to replace him, and Major General Frederick Anderson became Doolittle's Chief of Operations. In a final move, Major General Nathan F. Twining was trans- ferred from the South Pacific to assume command of the Fifteenth Air Force For Doolittle and Spaatz, there was no question that defeating the Luftwaffe was USSTAF's overriding goal. When Doolittle entered the office of General William Kepner, the Eighth's fighter chief, he saw a sign that said THE FIRST DUTY OF THE EIGHTH AIR FORCE FIGHTERS IS TO BRING THE BOMBERS BACK ALIVE. "Take that damn thing down," Doolittle ordered, "and put up another one saying the First duty of the Eighth Air Force is to destroy German Fighters." "You mean," Kepner replied, "you're authorizing me to take the offense?" Doolittle replied, "I'm directing you to." Of all the reasons behind American air force losses-bad weather, faulty equipment, flak and fighter defences-the Luftwaffe was the most important. It always had been, but the German air force-largely because of Galland's efforts-was becoming an increasingly vicious force. Escort fighters were able to offer a great deal of protection to American bombers, but the Luftwaffe quickly developed a technique for dealing with them. When incoming U.S. bombers were picked up on radar, the German fighters would go up but hover 163 just beyond the limits of the escort fighters' range. Once the escorts turned back and the bombers continued on alone, the Luftwaffe swept in for the kill. It was often, by no means only over Schweinfurt, a massacre. Ridding the skies of the Luftwaffe had to be done, for the U.S. air forces and for POINTB