lty with both, Portal (then still commander-in-chief) wrote, is that both tar- gets were "isolated and in sparsely inhabited districts," meaning that "the very high percentage of bombers which inevitably miss the actual target will hit noth- ing else important and do no damage." Where attacks dispersed over the widest area of Germany, it would increase "the moral effect of our operations by the alarm and disturbance created over the wider area." Here, less than a year into the bombing war, were the seeds of area bombing.18 Four months later, Portal now issuing rather than receiving the directives-wrote to Peirse and instructed him to attack electricity and gas plants located in the centre of Berlin and other German towns. Bombers on these runs should carry "high explosives, incendi- ary and delay action bombs"; the first sorties would "cause fires, either on or in the vicinity of the targets so they should carry a high proportion of incendiary bombs."19 The prime minister was moving in the same direction. "We have seen." he wrote on November 2, 1940, "what inconvenience the attack had on the British civilian, and there is no reason why the enemy should be freed from all such embarrassments."20 RAF bombing would remain precision bombing-on oil, aircraft, and, from the spring of 1941, U-boat targets-for the rest of the year, but the policy's days were numbered. It had not produced results: bombs continued to miss their tar- get, and those that hit did little evident damage. A successful precision-bombing campaign required good weather, good visibility, and limited defence. These three conditions were rarely, if ever, met. David Butt, a minor official in the Sta- tistical Department, used reconnaissance photos and Bomber Command's own reports to determine bombing accuracy. He concluded that only two out of every three of the bombers dropped their loads within seventy-five miles of their target. If it was impossible to bomb precisely, then there were only two choices: b