mand dropped three thousand tons of bombs on the town of Neuss in a single night. Shortly after the Neuss raid, Churchill invited Harris to Chequers to dine and discuss an ULTRA report confirming that Germany faced a crippling oil short- age. ULTRA intelligence had made this clear more than two months earlier-on July 9-and Harris had been specifically ordered to hit oil by the September 14 directive. Churchill either sensed that Harris was not doing his job and used ULTRA to raise the matter, or wanted to be reassured that the city bombing campaign still had worth. In either case, Harris, citing a cold, declined the invi- tation and instead set out his views on paper.13 He began by dismissing the source. "Of [sic] our past experience the Jap diplomats are usually stuffed with Boche propaganda, and incline to swallow it, hook, line and sinker." Before altering | 203 bombing strategy, he continued, "we should, I feel, take a more sober view of what has so far occurred on the western front. The German Army . . . collapsed in the face of attack by superior and better equipped forces. But it collapsed mainly because it was beleaguered by air power." This happy result was achieved despite giving Germany "considerable breathers" through "necessary and avoid- able diversions" during the previous six months. Now that they were out of the way, "we should now get on and finally knock Germany flat." Churchill responded right away: "I agree with your very good letter," wrote Churchill, "except that I do not think you did it all or can do it all. I recognize however that this is a becoming view for you to take. I am all for cracking every- thing in now on to Germany that can be spared from the battlefields." It was exactly what Harris wanted to hear. If September was a bad month for German cities, October was worse still. Harris launched his heaviest attack ever. In October, 80 percent of RAF bombs fell on cities. Harris launched twenty raids, nine of them by daylight. Two of the