siderable time. . . . The Air Staff," Bottomley added, "must take a somewhat less confi- dent view than [you do] of the possibility of causing the enemy to capitulate by reason of area attacks alone . . . "24 Bottomley was third in the chain of com- mand after Portal and the Vice Chief of Air Staff, and the man from whom, in Harris's words, "on policy and strategy I take my instructions."25 You would not have known it. In his reply, Harris wrote: "Hitler's record as a prophet is not such as to inspire confidence. ... It is surely impossible to believe that an increase by more than one half of existing devastation [through city bombing] within four months could be sustained by Germany without total collapse."26 In the days after the American raid, Harris responded with delaying tactics, finding one excuse after another not to bomb Schweinfurt.27 On August 18, it was the weather. Harris sent his bombers to destroy the V-2 factories at Peenemünde instead. In a tightly executed attack, three waves of bombers hit the plants. Sixty- one planes from 6 Group (formed from RCAF crew in January) made up one-half 129 of the third wave, and the lion's share of the losses. A full 20 percent of the crews dispatched would not return-a figure four times the maximum acceptable loss rate. 28 The concentration/labour camp, Dora, next to the facility was also hit by stray bombs, killing some five hundred forced labourers. Germany's V-2 pro- duction was knocked back by six months. It was an important hit, but the V-25 were-and always would be-less important than ball bearings. They would prove an ineffective terror weapon when they were finally produced and, more importantly, without ball bearings there would have been no V-2s, because there would have been no war. Once again, luck was on Speer's side. LeMay's Regens- burg raid, a tactically more successful attack with a lower casualty rate, had diverted airplanes that may have added to the destruction at Schweinfurt. And the RAF did not