five hundred a month.18 Building the mighty Eighth I 45 Arnold returned to Washington in August and spent the next four months building the U.S. Air Force while fighting off British requests for ever more planes. He repeatedly warned Roosevelt that transferring planes to England might leave the U.S. undefended. Roosevelt insisted, and on December 7, 1941, Arnold's fears were realized. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor cost the Amer- icans 188 aircraft (with another 159 damaged). The aircraft had been left in tight formations to prevent sabotage, and they formed ideal targets for the incoming airplanes. Four hours later, Japanese bombers destroyed twelve B-17s caught refu- elling in the Philippines. With the U.S. now in the war, Arnold needed to rebuild the air forces and to keep them American. The British, led by Portal, wanted U.S. bombers trans- ferred to England and the American air forces under the control of the RAF, to jointly conduct area bombing at night. Arnold was not one to give up on an idea-of an independent air force bombing according to American principles- that he had cultivated and cherished for almost a decade. He formed the Eighth Air Force, and turned to Spaatz for his views on the American bombing offen- sive. Spaatz told him what he wanted to hear: whatever the British said, day- light bombing was possible and much more likely to win the war than indiscriminately bombing civilians in the middle of the night.19 Arnold made Spaatz commander of the Eighth. Arnold's next move was to bring Eaker, who had taken over fighter defences on the west coast after Pearl Harbor, on board. Arnold met with him in Wash- ington on January 8. "You're going to England. I want you to fly over there and negotiate with the British for headquarters, airdromes, communications, all the stuff we'll need. Understudy the British and work out the plans. Then I'll get you some bombers and crews. You'll be in charge of the Eighth Air Force Bomber Command." The news surprised