over by camp guards. Lofthouse was a POW within seconds. But he was alive, as was-he would learn later-the rest of his crew. Many others were not so lucky. Flight Lieutenant Kevin Hornibrook's plane, a Halifax in 158 Squadron, was coned as it flew toward the aiming point. Kevin tried for a minute or two to shake it, when the rear gunner shouted, "Fighter approaching!' Almost at the same moment, there was a burst of machine-gun fire which we heard striking in the mid-upper area and then we started to burn there." As Kevin took evasive action, the bomb aimer, Pilot Officer Alan Bryett, went to the mid-upper section of the plane to see if he could put out the fire. As he arrived, he saw the gunner getting out of his turret. He had been shot in the face. Unable to see, covered in blood and bone fragments, he staggered around the back of the plane. The other gunner had also been shot and wasn't moving. Then, Imperial War Museum London We were attacked again. I went back to [Kevin]. We had our intercom and he shouted "Don't bail out." But the intercom was very bad and cracking and I think that some of them only caught the last two words. The wire- less operator, the navigator and the flight engineer all went out. . . . One  140 | FIRE AND FURY The Battle of Berlin 1 gunner was probably dead, the other probably dying and three men had bailed out, leaving just Kevin and myself. Kevin struggled with the controls, but the fire had burned through the con- trol cables. The plane went into a sudden dive, "with a terrible screaming sound." The G-force threw Kevin and Alan back against the seats, a few feet from the escape hatch in the nose of the aircraft. Alan later said, "We were going to go down in this bloody plane." As the plane dived toward the ground at incredible speed, Kevin, struggling against the G-force, grabbed the escape hatch's latch and wrenched it open. Still hanging on, he reached back and got hold of Alan. He pulled him toward the hatch, let himself fall behind