ived!" Turning to Hitler, he said, "We shall survive this one mein Führer." This time Hitler did not allow himself to be taken in by cheap optimism and flattery. He arranged a meeting with Göring, Keitel, Milch, four industrialists. and Hans Kehrl, chief of the Planning and Raw Materials Department. Göring tried to keep the representatives of the fuel industry out-arguing that the mat- ter was best dealt with in private-but Hitler brushed him aside. Before the meeting, Speer urged the industrialists to tell the whole truth. Göring, however, got to them a few minutes before it started and, fearing the blame would fall on him, urged them to retain their optimism in Hitler's pres- ence. They gathered outside Hitler's office and watched several hurried and har- ried senior military officers rush past. Then they were called in. Hitler tersely | 179 shook each man's hand and bid them to sit down. "I have called this meeting," he said, "to be informed about the consequences of the last air-raids."33 He then asked the industrialists directly for their views. One by one, they testified in sober and dispassionate terms, furnishing their arguments with statistics, that the situation would be hopeless if a systematic campaign against oil were launched. Hitler at first reverted to platitudes: "We've been through worse before," and "You'll manage it somehow." Göring and Keitel took their cues, and gushed in confident terms. Keitel in particular harped on about the oil reserves. In a man- ner that commanded Speer's respect, the industrialists would not be swayed. They reiterated their conclusions and supported them with hard data. After the meeting, the guests returned to the anteroom, where Göring scolded them for having "burdened Hitler with such anxieties and pessimistic non- sense."34 The cars then picked up the guests and took them to the Berghof, where they had coffee and cake before the fireplace. The talk became trivial, and Hitler retreated into one of his friendlier worl