d at the upcoming Yalta conference.12 Finally, though no one said it, bombing Berlin seemed-as it had almost from the start of the war-the right thing to do. The next day, the Air Staff presented their views.13 Oil targets should absolutely remain the first priority. Tank production could be attacked only if attacks on communications could be reduced. Mine laying would definitely pro- duce dividends, but bombing German troop movements likely would not. As for Berlin, the Chiefs of Staff were doubtful that bombing would produce much in the way of results. While these discussions were going on, Bottomley called Harris to hear his views. The commander-in-chief naturally loved the idea of bombing Berlin; such an attack was, he said, already "on his plate."14 He recommended additional strikes on Chemnitz, Leipzig, and Dresden, as these cities were housing large numbers of refugees.15 Harris was ready to blast Berlin "as soon as the moon had waned." Churchill then entered the argument, with a predictably decisive effect. On the evening of January 25, he was preparing to have a drink with Harry Hopkins, President Roosevelt's envoy. Before he did, he called Sinclair. The prime minister had read the Joint Intelligence Committee's reports and asked Sinclair about the RAF's plans for "basting the Germans in their retreat from Breslau."16  242 1 FIRE AND FURY American area bombing Sinclair took Churchill's views to Portal the next day. Portal replied that oil targets should remain the first priority, but that attacks in support of the Russ- ian advance could be the second. In some cases, though he did not explain which, city attacks might come first. That day, Sinclair passed this on to Churchill. "I feel strongly," Sinclair wrote on January 26, "that the best use of our heavy bombers at the present times lies in maintaining the attack upon German oil plants whenever weather permits. The benefits of these attacks are felt equally by the Russians and ourselves and nothing should