on, more than the total tonnage dropped on the entire country during the First World War.7 By April 1941, they could drop three times that figure-more than a thousand tons-in a single night.8 In November, the Luftwaffe launched its most infamous raid of the war, obliterating 19 Coventry. Five thousand people were killed. At the same time, a series of raids on industrial targets in heavily populated cities-Liverpool, Manchester, Sheffield, Portsmouth, Plymouth, Swansea, Cardiff, Glasgow, and Belfast- pasted their residential neighbourhoods. The attacks seemed wholly indiscrim- inate to anyone on the ground. In the capital, raids that began on the East End extended westward, hitting Parliament, Buckingham Palace, and West London's more affluent neighbourhoods. The rich fled to the countryside, turning some of London's most fashionable streets over to the lower-middle and working classes. By the time the Blitz ended, 40,000 Britons had been killed and 750,000 made homeless. The dead ranged in age from an eleven-hour-old baby to a hundred-year-old pensioner.ยบ A million and one-quarter homes had succumbed to the bombs. The Blitz was not only awful; it was, given the Germans' own aims, counter- productive. Luftwaffe raids on aircraft targets were costly, probably too costly to sustain for long, but they had the effect of wearing down British defences.10 Night-bombing city targets, by contrast, was unproductive. It produced little in the way of results and allowed British fighter defence to regroup." British morale famously failed to buckle; rather, it hardened, and Londoners became the heroes of the free world. More than anything else, the bombing of London swung neu- tral opinion to Britain's side.12 When Hitler decided, in a typically erratic and ill- advised strategy shift, to turn toward Russia, he left a UK that was physically scarred but morally and psychologically strengthened. And determined to give it back to the Germans. The question was how. When Britain declar