uld pick off a few bombers as the bombing stream flew past, but the major- ity of planes always made it past. When Herrmann was surveying German defence capabilities, two things stood out.10 The first was that, with the Blitz over, the Luftwaffe had a surplus of trained bombers who were skilled in flying blind. The second was that single-engine day fighters could be produced more quickly and in larger numbers than twin-engine night fighters. From this, Her- mann developed the idea that single-engine fighters should be placed above Ger- man cities. Rather than having one shot at the British bombers crossing the Kammhuber Line, they would have many. Over the city, the fires, searchlights, and flares would illuminate the incoming bombers, making them easy targets for multiple attacks by the German fighters. His unit was named Jagdgeschwader Herrmann, but later renamed Jagdgeschwader 300 (JG 300). Herrmann proba- bly did not take to the omen implied by the first title: most Luftwaffe units had been named after dead heroes." The Luftwaffe allowed Herrmann to try out Wild Boar over Cologne. The results were inconclusive, but he was allowed to create a group of thirty fighters and try again.12 Three weeks later, after the catastrophe of Hamburg, Herrmann's quirky idea-until then indulged like a German equivalent of Walles's bouncing bomb- was thrust front and centre in Luftwaffe strategy. A few days after the firestorm, a conference of twin-engine commanders was held in Holland. Herrmann presented his idea. Whatever doubts they might have had, the commanders had little choice. Until a new technique was found for responding to Window, both single- and twin-engine fighters would be used in Wild Boar tactics. The Luft- waffe gave the fighters one full Wild Boar practice run, during the August 17, 1943, Peenemünde raid. Despite a clever RAF diversion force of a few Mosquitos that held most of the fighters back, the run was a success for the Luftwaffe and a slaughter for the bo