nce himself from a bombing war that he had long, if somewhat erratically, supported. And it infuriated Harris. Bottomley had sent him the note the next morn- ing. The allegations of terror were an "insult to both the Air Ministry's bomb- ing policy and to the way Bomber Command had executed it." The destruction of German cities had fatally weakened the enemy and only it was allowing the armies such an easy walk across Germany. Unless it could be clearly shown that bombing would neither shorten the war nor save Allied lives, it had to continue. Playing off Bismarck's line that eastern Europe was "not worth the bones of a Pomeranian grenadier," Harris wrote: "I do not regard the whole of the remain- ing cities in Germany as worth the bones of a single British grenadier." Then, all guns blazing, Harris heaped contempt on those who were, possibly strategi- cally, becoming sentimental about Dresden: "the feeling, such as there is, over Dresden could be easily explained by a psychiatrist. It is connected with German bands and Dresden shepherdesses. Actually, Dresden was a mass of munitions works, an intact government centre, and a key transportation centre. It is now none of those things."7 Harris's description of Dresden was hardly an accurate one, but he nonethe- less had a point. Dresden was no different from dozens of other German cities that had been destroyed. It had dozens of small industries and-more importantly-it was part of a central rail system linked with Berlin and Leipzig.8 A precision raid on the rail yards would have been logical and consistent with the transportation plan.ยบ But the raid was not a precision attack; it was an oblit- eration raid. And it echoed around the world not simply because of the city's exceptional beauty, though that was certainly part of it. The destruction of Dresden was a window onto the broader area bombing campaign. It brought home to people in a way that dozens of euphemism-ridden official reports could not, what the RAF had b