g polyglot: he had been raised in California, educated at Cambridge, and joined the Royal Canadian Air Force. Young's airplane came in with Gibson and Martin on each wing tip, using their guns to draw enemy fire. Once again, the dam withstood an accurate hit. Young pulled his plane up, while Gibson and Martin swung around to join David Maltby on a fourth run The three planes came in at sixty feet above water. Maltby scored a third accu- rate hit, and the three planes pulled up just as the bomb exploded. The planes circled the valley, preparing for a four-plane attack with David Shannon carry- ing a bomb. Then, suddenly, the dam cracked and collapsed. "A wall of water twenty-feet high surged over the masonry and swept off into the night."8 As the water rushed into the valley, Gibson led those planes that had not dropped their bombs toward the Eder valley dam. After three runs, during one of which Henry Maudslay's plane was caught in the explosion, the second dam collapsed. The raid had cost Bomber Command fifty-six aircrew, only three of whom survived in POW camps. Of the twenty-eight Canadian aircrew on the raid, almost half died.ยบ The surviving aircraft headed home. A hero's welcome was waiting for the airmen. On their arrival, they learned that the Sorpe raid had failed to breach the much stronger earthen dam, but it hardly mattered. Canadians Ken Brown and Steven Oancia were awarded medals (a Conspicuous Gallantry Medal and a Distinguished Flying Medal, respec- tively) for their efforts. The bouncing bomb had been a stunning success, and the two raids showed that Bomber Command was capable of precision that no one would have imagined possible a few months earlier. The casualty rate had been extremely high-some 24 percent-but the absolute losses-eight aircraft-were no higher than on the average raid, and small compared to the vast degree of destruction meted out against the dams. Gibson became a national hero, though he did not enjoy his status for long. He was ab