ltitude) sent from the Germans' Ostend radar station, some seventy-five miles away, silently made contact with the planes and instantly relayed the message. The Luftwaffe had been warned. About eighty miles from the German coast, three bomber streams converged into one. With the pathfinders in the lead and the bombers stretching two hun- dred miles behind them, a vast flotilla of airplanes was droning toward Hamburg. NORTHERN GERMANY Stade is a small Hanseatic town with half-timbered houses following the curve of the city's harbour situated between Hamburg and Bremen. In 1943, its airfield housed a massive, bombproof bunker. Inside was a raised balcony overlooking a huge, frosted glass screen, some fifty feet across. From the balcony, General Lieutenant Schwabedissen, cigarette in hand, looked down on the screen and the fighter-control officers, who manned the radios, below. On the screen itself, projected spots of lights represented every plane in the air-white spots for enemy planes, green spots for German planes-with details of each plane's posi- tion and flight direction.6 From his vantage, Schwabedissen oversaw air defence for whole of northeastern Germany. Imperial war Iviuseum London 12:30 A.M., THE GERMAN COAST Hundreds of German fighter planes hovered, circling in tightly organized boxes, over the coast. They made up the Kammhuber Line, brainchild of General Joseph Kammhuber. He was the son of a Bavarian farmer, had lived through Verdun, and had managed to stay in Germany's small post-Versailles army. He was sent secretly to the Soviet Union for flight training at the end of the 1920s, and when he returned he was instrumental to Germany's efforts to set up a strategic bombing force. When the war started, he was one of three chiefs of staff in the Luftwaffe-Hans Jeschonnek and Hans-Jürgen Stumpf being the  110 1 FIRE AND FURY To destroy Hamburg others. Early on, he had the first of many disagreements with Göring. Hitler. with an eye to Britain's rapidly expa