quite understandable. The targets are being hit, the enemy aircraft are being shot down and a high percentage of the aircraft were returning safely, but it is a great battle which hangs in the balance." Arnold saw his opening and jumped in. "It is difficult," he added, "to con- fine a discussion on the air war to Europe since available resources must be spread between all theatres. Early estimates, based on British experience, of the replacements of men and machines have proved too low in the case of the oper- ations of the Eighth Air Force. ... There is [also] the problem of war-weary crews. General Eaker has at present some 800 aircraft, but only 400 crews." Whatever the differences between Arnold and Portal, they were less important than emphasizing the importance of air power in the face of Army, Navy or polit- ical opposition. Those differences, in any event, were decreasing by the summer of 1943 as Portal began to lose faith in Harris's area bombing, for precisely the same reason he had earlier lost faith in precision bombing-its failure to deliver results. Picking up from Arnold's points, Portal continued: "The battle against the German 131 fighter force is a vital battle. . . . If the German strength is not checked in the next three months, the battle might be lost. . . . It is impossible," Portal concluded, "to judge the strength which the German fighter forces might obtain by next spring if our attack is not pressed home." Again and again, Portal came back to the decisive importance of the Amer- ican daylight campaign. "On the one hand, German fighter strength is stretched almost to breaking point, and in spite of their precarious situation on the Russ- ian and Mediterranean fronts, they have found it necessary to reinforce their fighter forces on the Western Front from these sources. On the other hand, the expansion of German fighter strength is continuing and has increased 13 percent this year. It was hoped that this expansion would by now have been stop