e, associated with a degree of alarm and anxiety which cannot in the circumstances be regarded as abnormal. and in which in no instance was sufficient to provoke mass anti-social behaviour. There was no measurable effect on the health of either town. 38 Neither Tizard's nor Zuckerman's views mattered in the end. Only Cherwell had the ear of the prime minister. Cherwell wrote back to Tizard with a dis missive reply. "My Dear Tizard, many thanks for your note. I would be inter ested to hear what you think wrong with my simple calculation, which seems fairly self-evident. ... My paper was intended to show that we really can do a lot of damage by bombing built-up areas with the sort of air force which should be available." Whatever gap there might be between the figures and the facts. bombing German cities would be "catastrophic" for the enemy.39 Whether from exhaustion, distraction, or lack of interest, Churchill accepted Cherwell's stan- dard for judging the bombing war-acres of dense cities flattened-and Por- tal's call for more money. n April 1942, General Marshall and Harry Hopkins arrived in London. They I were there to achieve two goals. The first was to brief General Chaney on the granting to Arnold of direct command over all air forces. What this meant, though they did not have to say it, was that Chaney was being sidelined. The sec- ond goal was to convince the British of the need for a 1942 invasion of the con- tinent. Stalin was demanding the opening of a second front, and the Germans were one hundred miles from Moscow. Although a Soviet counteroffensive had repelled the Germans from Moscow, the German army was far from defeated. Marshall did not inform Eaker of these developments, but he kept in close con- tact with him. He praised Eaker's work, lunched with him and Harris, and brought Eaker along to dinner at Chequers, the prime minister's country house. A partner- ship was established at one of these dinners. It was a good night. The company was glitterin