urt) and Colonel Curtis LeMay (of 4th Bombardment Wing, respon- sible for Regensburg). Of the two men, LeMay would become by far the most infamous, viewed as a ruthless airman who rained fire down on Japan. But he also possessed a basic humanity. In the spring of 1938, he had heard about a military plane that crashed into a crowd at a Colombian air show, killing sixty people and mutilating many others. That night, he dreamt of the time his brother had fallen from a barn roof onto a pile of broken bottles. Blood spurted everywhere; people began screaming. A few days later, LeMay, on the start of a South Amer- ican tour, attended the funeral of the Colombian victims. Viewing the weeping relatives, he remembered airmen who had died in training missions. LeMay thought "how very much alike we are after all."14 Similarly, speaking of Ger- many, he said that "if you're cursed with any imagination at all, you have at least one quick horrid glimpse of a child lying in bed with a whole ton of masonry tumbling down on top of him; or a three-year-old girl wailing for Mutter Mutter ... because she has been burned. Then you have to turn away if you intend to retain your sanity."15 On August 17, 1943, as LeMay awaited the order, the skies above Anderson at headquarters were clear, but clouds covered all of the bomber bases. Almost four hundred planes were to take off in rapid succession, and doing so through clouds would inevitably lead to collisions. Anderson told LeMay and Williams to wait an hour. An hour later, things hardly looked better. Anderson rang LeMay and Williams and asked them if he could wait another hour. LeMay told him that he could not: the Regensburg force had to fly on from Germany to North Africa and needed to land before daylight. The most he could offer, LeMay told Anderson, was thirty minutes. At 6:40 A.M., the weather had cleared somewhat, but not much. Anderson had to decide whether to call off the whole thing, send up LeMay's force alone, or take the ris