rate. The day after the Munich raid, Portal wrote to Harris. His patience had worn thin, and he decided to speak truth to truculence. "In spite of your asser- tions to the contrary," Portal noted, "I believe your attacks on oil would be pressed home harder and more certainly if they were backed not solely by your sense of loyalty but by your enthusiasm as well."3 He began by pointing out that Harris's raid on the oil plant at Politz involved only one-third of the total pos- sible bombing force, and therefore he, Portal, was "not convinced by your argu- ment that the prospect of damaging Politz would not have been increased had you despatched two or three times the force you did. The target is a large one .. . " He then went on to describe Harris's antipathy toward the MEW as "mis- placed" and inimical to the war effort. The MEW did not choose the ball bear- ings and oil targets alone; economists' recommendations, agents' reports, and intelligence committees in both the United States and the United Kingdom all informed the decision. The adoption of these two policies was therefore backed by investigations which, as far as was humanly possible, covered all the ground and brought in all interests which were able to help. They were clearly not merely "panaceas enthusiastically put forward by the amateurish, ignorant, irre- sponsible and mendacious M.E.W." and it is an unworthy and inexcus- able travesty of our conduct of the war to suggest that our policy is determined on that kind of basis. His pen gaining flourish, Portal repeated and confronted the other claims made in Harris's letter. That he had done everything he could to destroy Ger- many's ball bearings factories: 235 You state that you are satisfied you achieved a "whole series of brilliantly executed attacks of an effectiveness that nobody would even have thought possible at the time when the ball-bearing plan was initiated." The facts scarcely seem to me to support your appreciation of your achievements. That