ted over East Anglia, the Luftwaffe was testing the German equivalent, Düppel, over the Baltic. Reports about Düppel's destructive effect on radar were sent back to Göring. He read them and was horrified by the possi- bility that the British would discover and employ the technique. He had all of the documents destroyed and ordered an end to the research.12 It was one of his many acts of sheer incompetence. The Germans would eventually learn to counter Window; in some ways, they actually benefited from it. Window forced the Germans to trade their ineffective static defences for aggressive counter- attacks. Before any of this occurred, however, a heavy price would be exacted at Hamburg. July 24, 1943, 10 A.M. A t air bases all over eastern England, airmen were relaxing in the sun- shine.' The last two night raids had been cancelled because of poor weather over Germany, and they wondered whether the same would be true on this day. The most curious went to the base's station office to hear the orders rung through from High Wycombe. The rest headed to the messes, where the operations were pinned to a board. There were sighs across the country: the "ops" were on, though they wouldn't learn the target until that evening's briefing. The pace quickened across hundreds of bases. The men headed to their air- planes to get them "bombed up" and to help the ground crew check that the planes were ready for battle. As they approached, they saw brown paper parcels, endless numbers of them, piled up on the tarmac next to each plane. Some of the men could not contain their curiosity and opened the bags to find the strips. "We couldn't make head or tail of it," an airman of 47 Squadron later said. "One chap peed on it to see if it reacted."> Once the planes were ready, the men had to live through the dead time between bombing-up and the 5 P.M. briefing.3 At that hour (or thereabouts), they took their places in the briefing room. Someone closed the door behind them, and the officer in c