an cities and everything within them. All German cities, not simply Berlin. The question was how he would continue to do so while respecting the directive. As one author puts it in the doublespeak common to Harris's defenders, "he felt [the directive] was open to a certain amount of interpretation."27 The official history put it slightly differently: Bomber Command interpreted the directive as allowing "general attacks necessary to render the German industrial population homeless, spiritless and, insofar as possible, dead."28 The word morale, sprinkled uncom- fortably throughout the document, certainly helped, but it could not hide the fact that the order called for the overwhelming weight of British and American bombs to fall on industry. Harris waited several weeks to reply, and when he did he offered a "commentary" on the directive. It suggested a slight rewording, stating that "the primary objective of Bomber Command will be the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic system aimed at  FIRE AND FURY 88 1 undermining the morale of the German people to the point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened." Read this way, it implied that the main point of bombing was the undermining of morale rather than the destruction of industry. Harris was convinced it gave him exactly what he wanted. The Casablanca directive, he wrote after the war, "allowed me to attack pretty well any German industrial city with 100,000 inhabitants or above." Although the directive was meant to wind down city bombing, not to launch a new wave of it, Harris exploited the directive's ambiguity to continue his city- busting campaign. There were only two men who could stop him: Churchill and Portal. The prime minister, following a year of bombing with few results, no longer believed the airmen's exaggerated promises, but he could never resist the appeal of bombing Berlin. On January 27, he sent a note to Sinclair urging him to "ke