armaments policy, and tied his star to an air war that was already going badly. Imperial War Museum London That was spring 1942. In summer 1943, Speer was in front of the Central Planning committee (die Zentrale Planung), an overarching body presided over by Speer and Milch that coordinated raw-material supplies across the German 121  122 | FIRE AND FURY Speer's nightmare economy.+ That morning, Speer had been briefed on what had happened in Hamburg: smashed water pipes, hurricane winds, cyclone-like firestorms, blaz. ing asphalt, and incinerated civilians. As he reported to the committee, the word he spoke seemed to be a vindication of Harris and his whole bombing strategy "If the air-raids," intoned Speer, "continue at the present scale, within three months we shall be relieved of a number of questions we are at present dis cussing. We shall simply be coasting downhill, smoothly and relatively swiftly ... We might as well hold the final meeting of [the] Central Planning [com- mittee] in that case."s Over the next few days, apocalyptic reports continued to come in. Repeated telegrams were sent by Kaufmann, begging Hitler to visit the devastated city. He simply refused. Kaufmann then asked Hitler to receive some of the city's more heroic rescue crews; Hitler refused again.6 Three days after the bombing, Speer went to see Hitler himself. "I told him," Speer wrote after the war, "that arma- ments production was collapsing and threw in the further warning that a series of attacks of this sort, extended to six more cities, would bring Germany's pro- duction to a total halt."7 Hitler remained unimpressed. Calmly, he replied to Speer: "You'll sort it out." Speer did. Within days, public transportation in Hamburg was running again and people were getting to work. Far from being demoralized, Hamburg's workers turned up for their shifts in the days and weeks after the bombings and they worked with an enthusiasm and determination that left Speer speech- less.8 This is not sur