get my views across, but, when the decision is made I carry it out to the utmost and to the best of my ability"- but doing so was pointless. "The basis," Harris wrote, "of the plan is wrong .. . and its pursuance is, and will prove to be, chimerical." Harris used the letter to address Portal's argument that history would soon judge him. He turned it on its head. "The history of bombing," he wrote, throughout this war will, when it is all summed up, show our repeated lapses from that essential principle of war, the maintenance of an objec- tive. Three years of bitter struggle have gone into our area blitzing. All Germany openly bemoans it as their worst trial. We know that on more than one occasion they have nearly collapsed under it. As the programme nears completion we chuck it all up-for a panacea. The pursuit of these panaceas had already cost the Allies dearly. Just before D-Day, Harris had warned the Army that if Bomber Command lay off bomb- ing Germany for five months, the country would recover all that was necessary for war production. "The aggregate of our diversions, on the railway plan, on helping the armies and now on oil, very far exceeds the five months' estimate.' Referring to Ardennes, Harris added, "We need look no further for the cause of what happened in this last fortnight."  24 Speer despairs, Harris threatens, Portal blinks The year 1945 was two hours old when Speer arrived at Hitler's private, bombproof bunker hidden in a grassy valley near Bad Nauheim, about twenty miles north of Frankfurt. When he entered, he saw Martin Bormann, Hitler's doctors, and the lower-middle-class coterie-adjutants and secretaries- that made up Hitler's inner circle. They were drinking champagne, and Hitler himself, though entirely sober, was in a "grip of permanent euphoria."1 Look- ing to the year ahead, he spoke of a quick recovery from past setbacks, of renewed glories, and of the Endsieg, the final victory. The circle met these proph- esies in silence, some aver