eginning. "I submit," he wrote, "that this is far too serious a matter to be left in this position of obscurity. If the authorities are in doubt that cities, including everything and everybody in them which is a help to the German war effort, are the objectives which Bomber Command in accordance with its direc- tive is aiming to destroy, they should at once be disabused of this illusion, which is not merely unfair to our crews now but will inevitably lead to deplorable con- troversies when the facts are fully and generally known." The question was more than one of publicity. It went to the very cause for which thousands of young men were dying: It concerns the whole aim and scope of the activities of Bomber Com- mand, since, unless my interpretation of the situation . . . is accepted with- out ambiguity or evasion of the issue, it is clear that our crews are being sacrificed in a deliberate attempt to do something which the Air Council do not regard as necessary or even legitimate, namely eliminate entire German cities. .. . It is not enough to admit that devastation is caused by our attacks, or to suggest that it is an incidental and rather regrettable concomitant of night bombing. It is in fact produced deliberately and our whole [pathfinder force] and navigational technique is primarily designed to pro- mote it. This is the truth which cannot be denied without implying that Bomber Command is attempting to do the same thing as the Americans do occasionally and doing it comparatively ineffectively. Failure to assert it openly will, as I stated in my previous letter, inevitably affect adversely the morale of our crews and I would urge that this rather than the appeasement of the sentimental and humanitarian scruples of a negligi- ble minority should be our primary consideration.23 THAA TOYTAHTITT Harris's letter, as ever a model of clear thought and frankness, left the Ministry with little choice. It could no longer pretend that there was no difference of prin- cipl