rst in Karlsruhe and then in Munich before finally settling at the Technical University of Berlin, where he studied with Heinrich Tessenow, an apostle of simple, unadorned architecture that was the antithesis of Speer's later bombast. On December 4, 1930, he heard a speech by Hitler in working-class southeast Berlin. Drawing on mostly inaccurate historical examples, Hitler told a story of his struggle, of the battle of good against evil, of the manifest threats to Germany-communism, unemployment, economic stagnation, and political impotence-and of his determination to see them all off. When he ended, the room exploded in rapturous applause. Speer felt energy and excitement shoot through him. Four months later, he joined the National Socialist German Work- ers party and was given membership number 474,481.16 Speer spent the next eighteen months in demoralized boredom, living with his parents in Heidelberg. Neither the July 1932 elections nor the hundreds of people it left dead stirred his interest. On July 28, three days before the election, he was preparing for a three-week journey to the isolated East Prussian lakes. A few hours before he was to leave, he got word that the organizational head of the Berlin region (Gau), Karl Hanke, urgently needed to speak to him. Hanke invited Speer to Berlin to renovate the Gau's new headquarters on the Vosstrasse, a few minutes from Potsdamer Platz. Speer immediately cancelled his trip and headed to the capital. Three hours later, he would have been unreachable.17 Speer finished the Vosstrasse project in record time and found himself back in Heidelberg, where he slipped back into depression. He barely took notice of January 30, 1933, when Hitler became Chancellor. But three weeks later, Hanke called again. Speer was to come back to Berlin. Hitler's propaganda minister, Goebbels, wanted him. Goebbels set Speer to work on the renovation of Schinkel's Leopold palace on the Wilhelmplatz. When Speer was finished, Goebbels loved it. S