les divided the family between them; it was finally over. 9:20 P.M., WURZBURG The city was an inferno. In the Ursulinengasse, a few minutes from the central Domstrasse, one woman took the fateful decision to leave the cellar in time and ran with her two children for the safety of the river or the country. As she did. she lost her grip on them, and the crowd crushed them.6 Gusti Schmitt was a young girl fleeing the city with her parents. As she climbed out of her cellar into the street, she saw a woman run past holding a burning package; another man tried to wrest it from her and she screamed, "It's my child!" A few blocks later, she passed the school turned military hospital. A wounded patient's bandages caught fire; he threw himself through the window, ran down the street, and died? As in countless other cities, split-second decisions meant the difference between life and death. A wounded soldier, Karl-Heinz Wirsing, decided to seek shelter in neither the Domstrasse nor his military hospital, which was behind the Dome.8 He instead took the far more risky route across the Main, and was let into a shelter near the Marienberg as the bombs were falling. It saved his life: no one came out of the Domstrasse or the Paradeplatz shelters alive. The fires themselves tore through the streets, consuming everything in their path. The floors and roofs burned, and collapsed. In the centre, near the Domstrasse, almost all of the houses collapsed, leaving only mounds of rubble and sand. Everywhere else, only the facades survived. Thirty-five churches, all T 257 of the museums and monuments, the Residence, Rathaus, and the Marienberg were destroyed. The destruction of more than a millennium of architectural and cultural history took just over fifteen minutes. It was little more than a footnote in the bomber war; on that night alone, five other towns were bombed.9 The Night Raid Report devoted five lines to Würzburg's obliteration. It noted that the "intention was to complete the des