from bases near Kiev ("Operation Frantic"). An attack on Auschwitz from Soviet bases would have required Stalin's approval, however, and they were much more vulnerable to Luftwaffe attack.21 It is possible that low-level raids by RAF Mosquitoes, flying from bases near the Adriatic Sea, might also have destroyed Birkenau in June 1944, but it is doubtful that they could have covered the distance undetected, or had enough impact to destroy Birkenau if they did.22 The Fifteenth, by contrast, could have done the job. By this point, 250,000 Jews had already been deported from Hungary to Auschwitz. On July 2, a few days after the report reached McCloy, Spaatz launched a series of heavy raids on military targets around Budapest. They had nothing to  186 1 FIRE AND FURY Oil and baby killing do with the deportations or with diplomatic efforts to stop the deportations by Sweden, Roosevelt (who appealed to the Hungarian people to help Jews to escape and to "record the evidence"), and the Vatican.23 The puppet government in Budapest interpreted the bombing as reprisals, panicked, and told Eichmann on July 7 that they were halting the deportations. Three hundred thousand Jew- ish lives were temporarily saved. The day before, Chaim Weizmann and Moshe Shertok, two of the most sen- ior representatives of the Jewish Agency for Palestine in London, went to see the Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden.24 Much of their conversation concerned the tragically hopeless proposals by Joel Brand of the Zionist Rescue Committee to negotiate with the Gestapo over trading Allied goods for Hungarian Jews. But they also raised the issue of bombing. The same day, Eden sent an account to Churchill. He reported Weizmann's appeal that "we should do something to mitigate the appalling slaughter of Jews in Hungary" and suggested himself bombing the railway lines and the camps, "so as to destroy the plant used for gassing and cremation." Churchill replied on July 7, the following day. Negotiation was a non-star