dle of the old city. As this was happening, bombs lit fires in and around the Aegidien church, to the southwest. Surrounding the church was the Kaufmannsviertel, the merchant's district, made up of tightly knit narrow streets. The fires tore through them and began leaping over the buildings into neighbouring streets. As they did, high explosives shattered houses, giving new oxygen and new pathways to the flames. At I A.M., a final wave of bombers pasted the city. A combination of high explosives and thousands of incendiaries landed across Lübeck: in the east, south,  52 | FIRE AND FURY Burn, Germany, burn and west. One high explosive landed in the Mühlenstrasse, in the southeast of the old city and only several feet from the Dome, and destroyed the city's main waterlines.12 Firemen's hoses ran dry and were dragged to the city's canals, but the sub-zero temperature meant that the hoses turned to ice. In the Johannisstrasse flames shot up from the roof of the Karstadt department store, threatening the twin steeples of the nearby Church of St. Mary. At 1:30 A.M., fires appeared in the church's chapel. The church's two bells (one cast in 1390, the other in 1745) fell and broke, crashing through the great organ made by Arp Schnitger. The crown of the choir toppled, burying the wooden high altar and the sedilia installed in 1310.13 Firemen tried to put out the flames, but the pipe bringing water from the Trave, the canal in the north of the city, was broken. The fires spread and began leaping out of the domes of St. Mary. At 5 A.M., the helm roof on the southern dome was alight; a few minutes later, the northern dome followed. Nearby, the City Hall (Rathaus) and the St. Petri church also burned So did the Dome. A neighbouring museum was hit by the first wave of bombs and, at 1:30 A.M., the fires jumped across to the Dome. Firefighters did not have the blaze under control until 10 A.M. the next day. By that time, two hundred acres of the old town had been demolished. All o