r of bombing with few results, no longer believed the airmen's exaggerated promises, but he could never resist the appeal of bombing Berlin. On January 27, he sent a note to Sinclair urging him to "keep on at the big city" Portal, for his part, knew that his subordinate was not implementing the directive, but he-for reasons that are not entirely clear- chose to turn a blind eye.29 Harris continued his effort to wreck Germany from end to end. 11 1 The Ruhr The Ruhr valley stretches over some seventy miles. In the west it begins in Wesel near the Rhine, and in the east it ends at Hamm. Slightly wider than it is long, the area begins in the north at the Lippe River and ends in the south at Lippe. It contains a series of mid-sized cities-Bochum, Essen, Dortmund, and Duisburg-that are actually parts of Germany's largest conurbation of five million people. Before Germany's late industrialization, the area was made up of small market towns: Essen, Bochum, and Dortmund. The only exception was the old trading port of D端sseldorf. The region's industrialization, like so much else in German history, was rapid and jarring. Property prices exploded-in Ham- born, they rose hundred-fold in twenty years as workers poured into the area.1 The housing shortage was intense, but the demand was almost entirely working class. With the exception of those in D端sseldorf, there was no middle class to pay for the elegant, decorative turn-of-the-century apartments found in Berlin, Pforzheim, W端rzburg, or Hamburg. The result was hastily built rental apartment blocks with small, crowded back courtyards. The materials were cheap, the build- ings often badly built, and little attention was given to such matters as plumbing and safe drinking water. It was not unusual for a recently built house to collapse.2 The region's occupants were thoroughly proletarian: simple, poor people who-to the horror of the bourgeois residents of D端sseldorf-enjoyed fairs, drink, and illegal bars.3 The area was Germany's i