them."45 It was, Speer thought, the same attitude Hitler had taken to 1942 warnings about upcoming RAF raids on German cities, cities that were now rubble. Göring's (and Hitler's) delusions were again on display in an exchange between General Adolf Galland, head of Germany's fighter command, and the Reichs- marschall.46 Galland had reported to Hitler that several American fighter planes had been shot down over Aachen. The Americans, in other words, were sending escort fighters deeper into German territory, a development that could spell dis- aster for the efforts to protect German industry. Hitler relayed the news to Göring, who next saw Galland on the Reichsmarschall's special train, which was to depart for Rominten Heath. Surrounded by his usual store of clothes, jewellery, per- fumes, and most likely pilfered art objects, Göring snapped, "What's the idea of telling the Führer that American fighters have penetrated into the territory of the Reich?" Galland stayed calm. "Herr Reichsmarschall," he replied, "they will soon be flying even deeper." Göring screamed at him, "That's nonsense! What gives you such fantasies? That's pure and utter bluff!" Imperial War Museum London Galland looked at him, a long cigar clamped between his teeth, his hat askew, affecting a casual air. "Those," he said, "are the facts Herr Reichsmarschall. American fighters have been shot down over Aachen. There can be no doubt about it." Göring wasn't listening. "That is simply not true, Galland. It's impossible." Galland remained calm. "You might go and check the situation out yourself, sir. The downed planes are at Aachen." Göring then tried substituting jocularity for truculence. "Come now, Gal- land," he said, "let me tell you something. I'm an experienced fighter pilot myself.  FIRE AND FURY 134 1 Speer's nightmare I know what is possible. But I know what isn't, too. Admit you made a mistake." Galland only shook his head, until Göring, now clearly grasping, said, "What must have happened i