iberately preserved his fighters as Speer tried fran- tically to rebuild, quickly guessed where the bombers were headed. He sent up four hundred fighters to attack.26 At Frankfurt, a mass of German fighters attacked the leading division, which was low on escorts because one of its fight- ing groups had mistakenly rendezvoused with a trailing division.27 The remain- ing escort fighters were overwhelmed. Within forty minutes, the Germans downed thirty-two bombers-some two-thirds of the total forty-six bombers lost on the mission. Two others were lost to fighters, twelve to flak. After these early kills, the Luftwaffe ran out of luck. Subsequent bombers were better protected, and the fighters engaged the Germans in ferocious dog- fights. They destroyed sixty Luftwaffe fighters, protected the majority of the bombers and allowed them to fly on to oil targets. They blasted synthetic oil plants with 1718 tons of bombs. Imperial vvar Iviuseum London On the day of the attack, Albert Speer had been back in Berlin for four days. May 12 was a date he would never forget. "On that day" he wrote, "the tech- nological war was decided. ... Until then," he continued, "we had managed to produce approximately as many weapons as the armed forces needed, in spite of their considerable losses. But with the attack of [the American daylight bombers] upon several fuel plants in central and eastern Germany, a new era in the air war began. It meant the end of German war production." 28 On May 13, Speer accompanied some technicians on a visit to the Leuna works. Stepping across broken and twisted pipes, he received a report on the damage. The chemical plants had proven "extremely sensitive to bombing." By  178 | FIRE AND FURY Germany's Achilles beel the most optimistic forecasts, production could not be resumed for weeks. Daily output dropped by 1000 metric tons: from 5850 to 4820. It was a huge drop, but not a disastrous one. Germany's reserves could see the country through for another ninetee