ntre, the Rathaus had been hit, and St. Nicholas Church was burning. The house in which Johannes Brahms was born, in the Speickstrasse, was rubble. Twenty high explosives had hit the Hagenbeck zoo, and there were more than one hundred dead and dying ani- mals. Fifteen hundred people were dead. And the bombing had only begun. Imperial War Museum London The next raid was the firestorm, and the end of Hamburg.  16 | Speer's nightmare mid-1943, as the air war went worse and worse for Germany, Speer D assumed more and more of his rival's power. In February 1942, he had also taken over all of Todt's responsibilities. In the days after Todt's death, Speer saw off attempts by Ley, Funk, and Bormann to limit his power. On February 18, Speer persuaded Milch (who coordinated aircraft production), Funk (Minister for Economic Affairs), and representatives of the country's leading industries to countersign a document granting him "a mandate for full authority" to direct armaments production.' That left only Göring. When Speer went to see him, Göring was seething with anger over the signatures, which he claimed wrested responsibility from him and undermined his position and his prestige.2 Speer was conciliatory and soothing. With feigned sincerity, he assured Göring that he had no intention of reducing the Reichsmarschall's competencies, and ended the meeting by offering what he hoped would seem like a major concession: he, Speer, would perform his duties "within [Göring's] four-year plan."This was, in fact, meaningless; Göring's role as Commissioner of the Four-Year Plan was at most ceremonial without the powers that Todt and, above all, Speer had assumed. But the promise left Göring "deeply satisfied" and he signed the document.3 In doing so, he signed himself out of industrial and armaments policy, and tied his star to an air war that was already going badly. Imperial War Museum London That was spring 1942. In summer 1943, Speer was in front of the Central Planning committee (d