23 "We will," Doolittle continued, "in what may be one of our last and best remembered operations regardless of its effectiveness, violate the basic American principle of precision bombing of targets of strictly military significance for which our tactics were designed and our crews trained and indoc- trinated." Leave area bombing to those who believe in it: the British.24 If the Amer- icans had to take part in THUNDERCLAP, Doolittle concluded, let them be assigned "precision targets of military significance." This appeal to conscience almost certainly had some impact, as Spaatz refused to even address it. "Hit Berlin." he wrote back, "whenever [weather] conditions do not indicate the possibility of visual bombing of oil targets but do permit operations to Berlin." Doolittle, under a direct order, prepared every available bomber for a February 2 raid on Berlin. Heavy clouds over the capital led him to cancel it. That night, the weather was clearing. Doolittle knew what he had to do, but he tried once again to get Spaatz to change his mind. "Is Berlin still open to air attack?" he cabled Spaatz. "Do you want priority oil targets hit in preference to Berlin if they def- initely become visual? Do you want [the centre] of city hit or definitely military targets, such as Spandau, on the Western outskirts?"25 Spaatz called him within the hour and made it clear. He told Doolittle to bomb oil if he could do so visu- ally; otherwise he had to bomb "Berlin-center of [the] city."26 When Doolittle's bombers were finished with Berlin, one of the dead was Roland Freisler, fanatical communist turned fanatical Nazi, representative at the Wannsee conference on the final solution, and president of the People's Court. He had sentenced Hans Scholl, Sophie Scholl, and Christopher Probst (all of Munich's White Rose anti-Hitler resistance movement) to death by guil- lotine. He had done the same to dozens implicated in the July 20, 1944, plot against Hitler. During the bombing, a collapsin