offensive one. On bombing missions, the fighters would not simply accompany the bombers into Germany. Instead, they would surge ahead and seek out the Luft- waffe, attacking them and knocking enough of them out of the air to allow the bombers to get through. Bombing escort was, however, only one part of the fighters' role, and possi- bly not the most important part. Spaatz decided that, whenever he could, he would send out his dogs. The goal was "nothing less than the annihilation of the Luftwaffe. The strategy [was] to bait them and kill them. Send in the bombers-the bait-to destroy the aircraft factories and then massacre the planes and pilots that came up to defend them."8  164 1 FIRE AND FURY Taking out the Luftwaffe The idea was a daring one, but it faced a powerful opponent: time. Spaatz knew that his forces, both bombers and fighters, would be called away to sup- port Operation OVERLORD, the invasion of the Continent. He had until April 1-only ninety days-to ruin a large, powerful, and modern air force.9 The first forty-five of them were lost to poor weather, and to arguments within the Allied air forces about the proper command structure. For an all-out war on the Luftwaffe, Spaatz needed the support and involvement of all Allied air forces over Europe: the Eighth Air Force, British Bomber Command, and the Ninth Air Force, which was built to support the Allied invasion of the Con- tinent. In this he ran up against Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory, head of Fighter Command and, from August 1943, the Allied Expeditionary Air Force (a com- plex and rambling organization that was to coordinate Allied air forces in the run-up to D-Day). Spaatz viewed Leigh-Mallory, not without some justification, as pompous, haughty, and naive. Leigh-Mallory could be highly inarticulate, which made his pomposity even more annoying, and his inability to be shaken from an idea once he adopted it as his own made Arthur Harris look like a model of flexibility. His view of a fighter's role w