eived no answer; the intercom was not working. When the heat of the fire became unbearable, I shouted, "GET OUT!" four or five times as loud as I could. Then I jettisoned the cockpit canopy and went out myself. It was not easy; I found out later that my left thigh had been hit by a bullet and the bone was broken. As Peter flew through the air, the crashing machine's tailplane caught him. His stomach was flat against it, his head over its top, and his feet underneath. The angle of the plane meant that he was pinned between the tailplane and the force of the air. For a few minutes, he was trapped there, hurtling toward the ground. He thought he was finished. His plane was coned, and he expected to be strafed by a round of what we now call friendly fire. In fact, the searchlight commander below had recognized Peter's plane as a Messerschmitt and hoped the searchlight would help him. Somehow, Peter managed to free himself from the tailplane, pulled his chute, and passed out. He landed unconscious in the garden of Grunewalddamm, 69. As he woke up, he felt dull pain all over his body. He looked up to see a crowd of civilians and an SS man. They had mistaken him for an RAF airman and were beating him. He shouted at them in German and they stopped.8 143 The defence technique employed by Peter and the other fighters was called "Wilde Sau" (wild boar), and it was the brainchild of Hajo Herrmann. Incredi- bly, Herrmann had never been in a fighter plane; he was a bomber pilot with a long string of operations over the United Kingdom.9 By early 1943, he had a staff appointment with the Luftwaffe, and he worked on strategies to counter the mounting effectiveness of Harris's bombing campaign. Even before Ham- burg, it was clear that the Kammhuber Line was not working; fighter pilots would pick off a few bombers as the bombing stream flew past, but the major- ity of planes always made it past. When Herrmann was surveying German defence capabilities, two things stood out.10 The first