he site of a precision instrument factory." Throughout the war, the government was sensitive to public opinion on bombing, and watched it closely. The evidence was inconclusive. According to polls conducted by Mass Observation, during the worst of the Blitz, the public was evenly divided-45 percent in favour, 45 percent against-over revenge attacks.12 In answer to the more specific question, posed by the British Institute of Public Opinion, of whether the German civilian population should be a target for attacks, the answers varied for reasons that are not entirely clear. In 1940, support for such attacks stood at 45 percent; in 1941, it 1 151 rose to 55 percent; in 1943, it peaked at 83 percent.13 In 1944 and 1945, it fell off again. In themselves, however, these figures say very little; as any political scien- tist knows, answers to public opinion questions depend greatly on when and how they are asked. It is one thing for people to say they support attacks on the "civilian population"; it is another to say so after seeing the pictures of burned and maimed children. Someone who called for revenge attacks after seeing their hometown bombed might (or might not) have changed his views with the pas- sage of time. In the end, the attitude of the British to civilian bombing is necessarily ambiguous. Enough information-including pictures and occasional apocalyp- tic imagery conjured up by politicians ("a crescendo of destruction")-leaked out during the war to give the curious a clear picture of what was going on. Still, the press reports were vague enough, and the claims of industrial targets and pre- cision capabilities sincere enough, to allow everyone to believe what they wanted to. For those who wanted to smash the Huns where they lived and breathed, they had Cherwell's intervention. For those who believed that Britain was mainly bombing industries, there was no end of official statements to confirm it. Activists such as Brittan were rare, and they were viewed as ext