act, and preferably isolated target. (f) It was already burning from previous attacks and two important satel- lite areas remained to be burned. There is something in continuity of attack, within limits, from the morale point of view. (g) It was as far as we could go and get back before the bases gave trouble. (h) Anything worth while further south would have been outside Oboe range and would have meant flying low inside American [range] and would [have] resulted in [the Americans] shooting at lethal height. In the letter's last passages, Harris moved from the specific-Cologne-to the general-the nature of his bombing crusade itself. "In the past 18 months, Bomber Command has virtually destroyed 45 of the leading 60 German cities. In spite of invasion diversions [i.e., the invasion of Normandy], we have so far managed to keep up and exceed our average of 2.5 cities devastated a month. In addition others have been 'started on' to the extent where they are already dam- aged beyond anything experienced in this country. There are not many industrial centres of population left intact." Harris ended the letter with a call for a total bombing war. "Are we," he wrote, "now to abandon this vast task, which the Germans themselves have long admitted to be their worse headache, just as it nears completion? [The destruc- tion of] Magdeburg, Halle, Leipzig, Dresden, Chemnitz, Breslau, Nuremberg, Munich, Coblenz, Karlsruhe, and the completion of Berlin and Hanover are required to finish this plan. ... Its completion will do more towards accelerat- ing the defeat of Germany than the armies have yet done-or will do." Harris's position was not easy. He genuinely did not believe that bombing oil would work. It had not worked in 1940-1941, and in the ensuing years the Ministry of Economic Warfare (MEW) had come up with many "panaceas." The clamour continued into late 1944. As he wrote in the same November I letter, "during the last few weeks every panacea monger and 'me too' expert to m