educed as to enable heavy accurate daylight bombing of factories to take place. This however cannot be done outside the radius of fighter protection. This insightful letter was hardly a ringing endorsement of area bombing, but it was enough. "I am now completely reassured," Portal wrote on October 13,  26 1 FIRE AND FURY "that you accept the primary importance of our bomber operations and of the building up of the bomber force on the largest possible scale." With Churchill' knowledge if not undiluted support, the Royal Air Force had moved toward , policy of destroying Germany's ability to wage war by destroying its cities. There was no better person to implement this policy than the new commander-in chief of Bomber Command. 3 1 Bomber Harris takes over n early 1942, a young police officer pulled over a Bentley speeding on a coun- 1 try road near Uxbridge, west of London. The driver had a stern look and piercing eyes. There was something unnerving and intimidating about the man. The officer told him, "You're liable to kill people at that speed."The driver looked at him coolly and responded, "Young man, I kill thousands every night." He was Air Chief Marshal Sir Arthur Harris, commander-in-chief of Bomber Command. Harris was born in Cheltenham on April 13, 1892, raised in India (his parents were in the Civil Service), and sent to school in England. After school, he emi- grated to Rhodesia, where he drifted between a series of working-class jobs before settling down on the eve of the Great War. When it broke out, Harris, "like all the other damned fools," signed up for the Ist Rhodesian Regiment, but he did not go to the battlefield. After an idle year, he moved to London. He arrived to the Times headline of August 21: RISING TIDE OF ENTHUSIASM for forced national service. Tens of thousands of men were volunteering for all branches of the armed services. Harris was keen to be one of them, but he could not find an opening. After being rejected by the Calvary and Artille