p to this point in his command, Har- ris had been salvaging the credibility that Bomber Command had lost during the first three aimless years of the bombing war. He was able to turn to his main tar- gets once credibility had been unquestionably restored. At the top of the list was Berlin, the capital of the Reich, the world's third-largest city in 1943 and Ger- many's largest by far. For the moment, however, it was too far away and too well defended for Harris to be at all confident of a successful raid. Berlin's time would come, and soon, but Harris looked elsewhere. He alighted on a city that was second only to Berlin in its importance, that was on an easily identifiable river, and that was easy to reach from England: Hamburg.  13 England, July 27, 1943: "Let us open the window" They did not look like much: small paper strips, about a foot long and an inch wide, silver on one side and black on another. They were tied together in a tight bundle and ready to be loaded into Jack Pragnell's airplane, a Halifax with 102 Squadron. Jack had joined the RAF in 1940 with his twin brother, and the two had trained together in South Africa before being assigned to different Bomber Command squadrons. He had no particular hatred for the Germans. Even the loss of his brother did not change his views. On the contrary, like many members of Bomber Command, he developed a deep respect and near affection for his opposite numbers in the Luftwaffe. They alone understood, in a way that no armchair critic could, what bombing meant for the bomber. "It was only a shame," he later remarked, "that they weren't on our side." Jack's moti- vations were simple, and powerful. There was a war that England had to win, and he had to contribute somehow. He had considered joining the Army or the Navy, but couldn't bear the thought of dying in the foul depths of a submarine or crawling through mud and barbed wire. The RAF, by contrast, offered glam- our. "I had always wanted to fly," he said sixty years