nther Becker, "harder and more resilient, and we believed even more in Germany's ultimate victory."22 For all the official bravado, the Germans feared another attack: not on the city, but on the harbour. A full four months after the attack-on July 24, 1942- the Staatskommissar in the mayor's office in Lübeck wrote to the local Luftwaffe command in Hamburg begging for more air protection from direct attacks on the harbour. For the moment, this did not matter to the British. The photos of Lübeck's skyline, covered in billows of smoke from the city's shattered Dome, made the destruction alone seem like a great achievement. And from a technical point of view, it was. In 1941, a raid involving a hundred bombers over four hours would be considered a great accomplishment. Now, one year later, Harris had managed more than twice the number of bombers in half the time.23 These were impressive feats of destruction, and Ira Eaker recognized them as such. Destroying cities was possible, he admitted, but that did not convince him that it was effective. When Harris used Lübeck to press him into the cam- paign, he reiterated his faith in precision bombing, and repeated his argument that U.S. planes and crews were not prepared for night bombing. He also artic- ulated a more measured vision of what bombing promised. "It would be desir- able," Eaker said, "to sit back and put all our efforts into the air and destroy [the enemy's ] weapons-making production. But that's daydreaming. . . . In our case the elder service is the Army, and then the Navy has always had great public popularity. There's no possibility ... that we're going to get the Army and Navy to stay out of it and let the fledgling young Air Force win the war."24 It would be ideal if bombing could win the war, but if it could not, it would weaken Germany to the point where an invasion was easier. Eaker, along with Arnold and Spaatz, was not yet sure of the best way to achieve this aim, but all three were from the start will