d screamed. As the harangue continued, Ferson's face turned 33  FIRE AND FURY 34 1 The Americans crimson and his veins bulged. He began to sweat profusely. Ferson opened his mouth, as if to defend himself, but he never uttered a word. He pitched for- warded and landed face-first on the carpet in front of Arnold's desk. He was dead from a massive heart attack.' Harris's temper-though also legendary-had never killed a man. But Arnold had several advantages over Harris. While Harris would scowl his way through photos, and through life, the natural expression on Arnold's "expres- sionless" face was a thin smile. It inspired his nickname "Hap" for "happy" and even his enemies found this quality disarming. He could also be charming. smooth, and disciplined. These characteristics served him well.2 Henry Arnold was born on June 25, 1886, in Pennsylvania, of a provincial. German-descended doctor, an austere and puritanical man who dominated his household and refused to let his children speak at dinner. Against Henry's will Dr. Arnold signed him up for the entrance exam at West Point when the doctor's preferred choice, Arnold's older brother Tom, refused to sit it. To Dr. Arnold's surprise, and Henry's horror (he was no keener on a military career than Tom was), the boy came second on the exam. At West Point, Henry resumed his indolent ways. He graduated in 1907 with a mediocre class standing of 60 out of 110 and failed to make it to the cavalry branch he had initially strived for, instead being assigned to the infantry.3 After two unhappy years in the Philippines and another two in the U.S., he wrote to Washington in 1911 and asked to be detailed for aeronautical work with the Sig- nal Corps. The War Department sent back an official letter asking him if he would be willing to train under Wright in Dayton, Ohio, as a pilot. When he showed the letter to his commanding officer, the man drolly replied, "Young man, I know of no better way for a person to commit suicide."4 After t