ttomley, after consulting Tedder, issued Strategic Directive No. 4, the final one of the war. It placed aid to the land campaign at the top, followed by oil, enemy communications, the Luftwaffe, and U-boats. The catch-all category of "important industrial areas" was not listed. Two nights later, without consulting Portal, Bomber Command bombed cen- tral Potsdam. Almost two thousand tons of bombs flattened the old city cen- tre and killed as many as five thousand people.10 Two hundred kilometres to the south, in Dresden, communications were still functioning. Despite the raids, Dresden's railway stations were still running. In the largest single raid launched on the city (counting the two British raids in February separately), the Americans attacked them. At a cost of four to five hun- dred civilian lives, they took these targets out for good. O n March 15, 1945, a day before the raid on Würzburg, Richard Peck, Assistant Chief of Air Staff, wrote a memorandum to the Under Secretary of State: "You will remember the great anxiety on the part of the C .- in-C Bomber Com- mand [Harris] that the public should be reminded at the time of the entry of our armies into the great German industrial cities that these have been devastated by Bomber Command." Two weeks later, on March 30, 1945, an American GI named Tony Vaccaro crossed the Rhine at Wesel.' The city had been bombed so many times that it looked like the face of the moon; only the outline of the street plan remained. Vaccaro, like many GIs, was first awed, then dismayed. He began taking photos, and his and many others were sent out of Germany. As they arrived in Britain, criticism grew. The government was all too happy to forget the bombings. On May 9, 1945, Arthur Harris waited for his and Bomber Command's invitation to the cere- monies at which Germany's surrender was formally accepted. None came, and on May 12 he wrote to Portal in protest. The next day, Churchill gave his VE speech to the nation. The prime ministe