he station. "All you could hear," remem- bered one air defence worker, "was the sound of screaming and rushing water." The next morning, sixty-four Londoners lay dead, with a pile of sludge on top of them.2 The September attacks were the first serious daylight raids on the capital and part of the Battle of Britain, Hitler's effort to use bombing to prepare for an invasion. It has no clear starting date: air raids occurred sporadically in June and July, and intensified during August. At that time, the German Air Force launched a costly but effective campaign against Britain's industrial production, fighter bases, and shipping. Though the targets were industrial, imprecise bombing (there was little in the way of aiming technology at this point in the war) meant that neighbourhoods were also hit. In July, 258 civilians were killed; in August, the figure was three times that: 1075, including 136 children and 392 women,3 Despite the imprecision, the bombing of spitfires and airfields was slowly but surely wearing the RAF down. Then, the Germans switched strategies. Luft- waffe commanders deduced from intelligence reports that Fighter Command was a spent force.4 The Luftwaffe sought to tame the rest of the country by bombing industrial, military, and transportation targets around large urban centres.5 German bombers hit Bristol, Liverpool, and Birmingham at night. On September 2, Göring ordered the systematic destruction of targets in London. Three days later, Hitler directed the Luftwaffe to undertake a general campaign against urban targets, including the capital, and against British morale.6 For the next nine months, the Luftwaffe launched seemingly indiscriminate raids on London and other British cities. On September 17, 1940, the Germans dropped 350 tons of bombs on London, more than the total tonnage dropped on the entire country during the First World War.7 By April 1941, they could drop three times that figure-more than a thousand tons-in a single night.8 In Novem