key to victory. Remember fighter jets? The attacks against the German fighter forces and industry last year are outstanding examples of the futility of panacea seeking. After all that vast effort against the German fighter industry the German fighter force fin- ishes up at from two to two and half times as strong as when it started! . Nobody could say that every possible effort was not made, and bril- liantly executed, in the best of conditions, to knock the German fighter forces on the ground and in their factories. But the enemy by concentrat- ing his efforts and his great industrial abilities in countering the effects of these attacks rendered them virtually nugatory. All we have to show for it ... is that we failed to achieve the aim. A failure both expensive and com- plete. If, over that long period of attacks on the German fighter industry, [U.S.] Eighth Bomber Command had instead joined with us in our area bombing, what vastly greater effects would not have been achieved on the enemy's war machine and will to war as a whole? Remember ball bearings? You conclude saying that 5% or even 10% losses in successful attacks will be well worth while. Although that statement is by no means the equivalent, 231 it reminds me much of a statement I once received from the Air Ministry that it was worth the virtual destruction of my force over a period of months, if we could knock out Schweinfurt. Where should we be now if I had agreed to that? And now he was expected to believe that oil was the magic bullet. He wouldn't: "I am afraid that nothing will disillusion me of the view that the oil plan is, for reason[s] I have given above, and on many occasions elsewhere, another panacea." He would continue to attack oil-"It has always been my custom ... to leave no stone unturned to get my views across, but, when the decision is made I carry it out to the utmost and to the best of my ability"- but doing so was pointless. "The basis," Harris wrote, "of the plan is wrong .. . and i