ision plans before it, "is another attempt to seek a quick, clever, easy and cheap way out. It will prove to be none of these things. If only because the enemy is neither a fool nor an incompetent. We will not deprive him of his last essentials in fuel. What we will succeed in doing will be largely to relieve Germany of her 'worst headache'-the crescendo of industrial civil and morale destruction which is near intolerable to her war potential now and must soon, even in Gestapo-ridden Germany, react to her final undoing on every front, including the home front. And that despite the fact . . . that the U.S. bombers have taken no serious part in area attacks."9 Given this, Harris was not prepared to follow his orders. "I will not willingly again lay myself open to the charge that the lack of success of a policy, which I have declared at the outset . . . not to contain the seeds of success, is after the event, due to my personal failure in not having really tried. That situation is sim- ply one of heads I lose tails you win, and it is simply an intolerable situation." If Harris were to remain in his position, he would do so to finish the job: The next three months will be our last opportunity to knock out the cen- tral and eastern industrial areas of Germany, viz. Magdeburg, Leipzig,  FIRE AND FURY 238 Chemnitz, Dresden, Breslau, Posen, Halle, Erfurt, Gotha, Weimar, Eise- nach and the rest of Berlin . .. These places are now the mainspring of German war production and the culmination and consummation of three years' work depends upon achieving their destruction. It is our last chance, and it would have more effect on the war than anything else. . . . But for all the diversions, necessary or otherwise, these places would nearly all be burnt out or blaz- ing by now. That would have been the consummation of our three years' effort, and it would have been absolutely fatal for Germany. 25 American area bombing If Portal was not prepared to accept this, then he had, Harris sa