l of Munich's White Rose anti-Hitler resistance movement) to death by guil- lotine. He had done the same to dozens implicated in the July 20, 1944, plot against Hitler. During the bombing, a collapsing beam crushed him. At the time of his death, Freisler was clutching the file of July 20 resister Fabian von Schlabrendorff. Thousands of others killed were civilians. On February 13, at 7:57 p.m, a single wooden airplane, a Mosquito, took off from a barren air base in Lincolnshire, in the north of England.27 It joined 224 heavy, bomb-laden Lancasters in a formation on its way to Saxony. 245 At 10:06 P.M., radios crackled across the beautiful city of Dresden. The bombers were there. At 10:13 P.M., the first Lancasters were over the bombing area, which took in the entire old city-its northern border just over the Elbe in the Neustadt and its southern border before the main station. The main station itself was outside the bombing area. The bombing bays were opened. Thousands of high explosives hit the city centre at once. Roofs were blown off; windows shattered. The interiors of churches, museums, palaces, and apartment blocks were exposed. A few seconds letter, tens of thousands of four-pound incendiary bombs were dropped, landing in exposed corridors, concert halls, and living rooms. Beds, chairs, and paintings began to burn. The fires crossed the floors and climbed the walls. They exited the windows. After fifteen minutes, the first wave of bombers left the city. By II P.M., the firefighters were losing control of Dresden. The entire old city was in flames. In the cellars and air-raid shelters below, tens of thousands of civilians, including many refugees, cowered. At 1:20 A.M., a second wave of bombers hit the city. They were meant to bomb the old city, but since it already was a raging inferno they dropped their bombs instead on the southern edges of the inner city, hitting the city's Great Garden where Dresdeners had sought refuge. After the second bombing, the city