ties and brought Bomber Command to industrial Germany's beating heart. And, finally, as a definitive answer to the sniping of the Butt report, the dam- buster raid had hit a target with a precision measured in inches. The effects among the Allies were energizing. The Lübeck and, above all, the Cologne raids had made the world stand to attention. In the United Kingdom, the Blitz was over, but only the most empathetic could fail to take pleasure at the Germans finally receiving something of what they had dished out against Rotterdam, Warsaw, Coventry, and London. The aircrew had gone from being the whipping boys of the war effort-chronically short of funds, demoralized, and viewed as pointless by large sections of the Army, Navy, and political elite- to the public and very glamorous face of the war itself. The Times headline of May 18, 1943, shouted their triumph. RUHR DAMS BREACHED *** DARING LOW-LEVEL ATTACK *** WALLS BLASTED OUT BY 1,500 LB MINES *** VAST DAMAGE BY FLOODS Peppered with exciting reports from the pilots themselves, the story told of a secret operation that was months in the planning, of a hand-picked crew, and of the bravery and thrill of the raid itself. Quoting Air Minister Sinclair, full due was given to Harris himself: "Our praise is due to that resourceful and deter- mined Commander-in-Chief, Air Chief Marshall Harris, who planned the details of the operation, and those superbly daring and skilfull crews who smote the Germans so heavily last night. It is a trenchant blow for the victories of the  98 | FIRE AND FURY Allies." The article ended with Harris's own words: "Please convey to all con- cerned my congratulations on the brilliantly successful execution of last night's operation. To air crews I would say that their keenness and thoroughness in training and their skill and determination in pressing home their attack will for- ever be an inspiration to the Royal Air Force. In this memorable operation they have won a major victory in the Battle