e flak guns began shooting. Gelsenkirchen was not, however, the target. Seven hundred and fifty RAF aircraft flew just south of it and bombed the centre of Bochum. More than 4000 buildings were destroyed or seriously damaged; 980 Germans and 14 foreigners were also killed.25 The same night, Harris sent 176 aircraft to the Dortmund-Ems Canal. The banks of the canal were breached, barges were stopped, and smelting coke en route to steelworks at Brunswick and Onsabrück was stranded. Reading the reports on Bochum, Portal could not believe it. There could not have been a better opportunity to hit Germany's oil supply. He returned to his desk and continued his letter to Harris. In the face of another affront, he raised his tone slightly. But only slightly: This morning I see you made an attack in clear weather which I imagine is the weather you expected since you also attacked the Dortmund-Ems canal. The destruction of Bochum as part of the Ruhr is of course very desirable and thoroughly covered by your directive but unfortunately so far as I know it contained no oil targets. To the outsider who knows the vital importance of oil it would have seemed more valuable if you could have attacked, say, Gelsenkirchen, which has two high priority oil targets and a largish, relatively undamaged built-up area into the bargain. Having risked your wrath already and in pursuance of my strong desire that we should understand each other may I ask you to let me know if you think I am wrong on this particular point. ... My excuse for all of this is that in the light of all available intelligence I feel that the whole war situation is posed on "oil" as on a knife edge, and that by a real concentration of effort at this time we might push it over on the right side. On the other hand if we give away anything in this battle the Germans may get into quite a strong  FIRE AND FURY Harris's and Spaatz's orders 1 position in the air and hold it long enough to prolong the war by several months at le