nd a moment later they were reported far out to sea. ... [In a typical exchange, a comrade suddenly shouted] 'Tommy flying at us at great speed. Distance decreasing . . . 2,000 yards . . . 1,500 . . . 1,000 . . . 500 . . . gone."10 They were fighting phantoms. At a few minutes before midnight, the pathfinders were leading the bombers un the Elbe and toward the outlines of the city. As the planes approached, the crews grew nervous. Despite the promising words about Window, veterans of even few raids were all too familiar with the violent ritual. The regular, steady drone of the engines would be interrupted by gunfire, searchlights, and the sound of a nearby bomber going down. Planes not hit by flak would be "coned" and had at most a few seconds to go into a deep dive before the flak guns took aim. The dive itself was no guarantee of salvation. The searchlights sometimes followed the plane down. Other times, pilots shook the searchlights only to be trapped in the dive. Unable to pull up, they crashed into the ground. Some crashed into other bombers, handing the Germans two kills rather than one. Thanks to Window, that night was different. For the first time in the bomb- ing war, bomb aimers could do their job without mortal fear of the flak that was spraying wildly but aimlessly around them. At exactly 12:57 A.M .- right on schedule-two Lancasters of 83 and 97 squadrons and one Halifax of 405 Squadron opened their shoots. Pilot Officer A.C. Shipway of 405 called out, "It is about time that someone started this party." All three planes dropped the first line of high explosives, and the Halifax marked the city with yellow target indicators, which guided other aircraft to the aiming point. The next wave of pathfinders dropped more yellow markers and white flares." The yellow target indicators guided the other pathfinders into the city, and the white told them whether to drop their red indicators.12 Within a few minutes, thirty-nine yellow and red target indicators were c