rris was able to get back to work. Over the next few days, he bombed Gelsenkirchen, Koblenz, Homburg, Harburg (now a residen- tial suburb of Hamburg), and Dortmund. Clearly feeling Portal's pressure, three of these raids-Homburg, Dortmund, and Gelsenkirchen-were oil raids. Despite Harris's predictions to the contrary, both the Dortmund and the Gelsenkirchen raids were a success; a synthetic oil plant at Dortmund was severely damaged, and 514 aircraft bombed another plant at Gelsenkirchen before smoke obscured the target.30 Harris didn't stop there, though. He couldn't leave an untouched city untouched, and 187 aircraft blasted Gelsenkirchen's centre on November 6, adding another five hundred civilians to the growing death toll. The logs recorded a directive raid, and Harris got to destroy another city.31 In some cases, where the targets were small, Harris could credibly make the case that he was applying the military principle of economy of force: after one hundred bombers or so had hit an oil target, the smoke from the bombs obscured it and the accuracy of subsequent bombers fell off dramatically. In other cases, such as the sprawling refineries in eastern Germany or Romania, this explanation strained credibility. The November 6 raid on Koblenz destroyed 60 percent of the town's historic centre, killed 104 people, and left 20,000 homeless. The city had been founded  FIRE AND FURY 214 Harris's and Spaatz's orders 1 as a fortification in 1000, and grew up over the centuries as the seat of local monarchs and bishops. Its architecture was a mix of grand palaces and narrow old-European streets. It had no industry to speak of. As one city after another fell, Portal once again decided to respond. He could see, for only a fool could not, that Harris was making only a reluctant effort to bomb oil targets. But he felt limited by his own sense of decorum-it was not Portal's way to order his men around-and by the formal authority enjoyed by Harris. What was he to do? Portal ha