eer's side. LeMay's Regens- burg raid, a tactically more successful attack with a lower casualty rate, had diverted airplanes that may have added to the destruction at Schweinfurt. And the RAF did not follow up, not on August 18, August 19, or on any other night in 1943. "We barely escaped," Speer wrote, "a further catastrophic blow." Speer immediately got to work on recovering from Schweinfurt. He gave brief thought to relocating the factories, but moving them would have held up production for three to four months.29 He ordered his men instead to patch up Schweinfurt as best they could, and began to draw on Germany's reserves. Within eight weeks, those reserves were gone. The few ball bearings produced were carried-often in rucksacks-from what was left of the Schweinfurt factories to the assembly line each night.30 Each day, Speer listened for the bombers and worried about Berlin-Erkner, Cannstatt, and Steyr. "In those days we anxiously asked ourselves how soon the enemy would realize that he could paralyze the production of thousands of armaments plants merely by destroying five or six relatively small targets."3" Instead, the British "continued [their] indiscriminate attacks upon [German] cities."32 Imperial War Museum London No good deed goes unpunished. Back in America, Arnold's whole precision bombing project was coming under renewed attack. On August 14, he was at the QUADRANT Conference, a meeting in Quebec of Roosevelt, Churchill and William Lyon Mackenzie King, along with the Combined Chiefs of Staff from the armies, navies, and air forces in the three countries. The main argu- ment was over when the British would commit themselves to invading the con- tinent. Arnold had written in a memorandum of record back in May that "it is becoming more and more apparent that the British have no intention of invading France or Continental Europe."33 Arnold had the impression that  FIRE AND FURY 1 Speer's nightmare 1 Churchill was using an attack on precision bombing t