ed on alone, the Luftwaffe swept in for the kill. It was often, by no means only over Schweinfurt, a massacre. Ridding the skies of the Luftwaffe had to be done, for the U.S. air forces and for POINTBLANK. Only if the Luftwaffe was knocked out could Allied bombers attack Germany's sub- marine, tank, and oil targets. Recognizing this, the Eighth Air Force and Air Ministry drew up plans in early 1943 for altering POINTBLANK priorities: destroying the German fighter force, previously priority two, became priority number one.5 Eaker and Portal agreed, and they presented it to the Combined Chiefs of Staff at the May 1943 Trident conference.6 These discussions became the basis of the June 1, 1943, directive. The force they set out to destroy was an ever-growing one: German fighter production had increased throughout the summer and into the autumn of 1943.7 The outlines of the plan for destroying the Luftwaffe had been sketched out by Eaker at least since the April 1942 dinner at Chequers. The idea was to deliver a massive blow against the German aircraft industry. Eaker formalized the plan of attack in Operation Argument, which envisaged continuous, coordinated strikes by the Eighth Air Force, the Fifteenth Air Force, and Harris's Bomber Command. Spaatz's idea for destroying the Luftwaffe was contained in the words "seek out and destroy"; he may have in fact suggested them to Arnold. Until 1944, the fighters played an important but essentially defensive role. They would accom- pany the bombers on their flight to Germany and defend them against any Luft- waffe fighters they met. Otherwise, the striking force-a very large one by early 1944-would be on the ground or in training flights, waiting for the next pre- cision bombing run. Spaatz transformed this defensive role into an offensive one. On bombing missions, the fighters would not simply accompany the bombers into Germany. Instead, they would surge ahead and seek out the Luft- waffe, attacking them and knocking enough o