cilities near Munich, losing fifty bombers. Nine days later, the Fifteenth Air Force once again hammered Ploesti. In Berlin, Speer felt as if his world was imploding. His remarks of May 12 had proved all too accurate. On that day, Germany had 715,000 tons of petroleum at its disposal. By June, it had 472,000 tons. In April, the Luftwaffe had 180,000 tons of aviation spirit; by June, only 10,000.6 On June 30, Speer wrote to Hitler. "My Führer,"7 he began, in the course of June the enemy's attacks on the synthetic oil plants and refineries were carried out with increased strength .. . The enemy succeeded, on June 22nd, in bringing the loss of aviation petrol up to 90%. Only through the most rapid repair of the damaged [facilities], whose return to production was in every case far in advance of the originally laid down date, will it be possible to restore a part of the catastrophic loss of June 22nd. Neverthe- less, the output of aviation spirit is wholly insufficient at present. After the first attack of May 12, you were told on the Obersalzberg that the output for the month of June would be 126,000 tons of aviation petrol ... Owing to the continuing attacks of the month of June pro- duction fell considerably short of this stated total. ... The production of the second half of June has again fallen considerably and is only at the rate of 42,000 tons a month, which leads to the certain conclusion, even to-day, that there will be an extraordi- nary fall in the July production if the attacks continue. Unless synthetic plants and refineries could be protected, Speer concluded, "it will be absolutely impossible to cover the most urgent of the necessary supplies for the Wehrmacht by September, in other words, from that time onwards there 183 will be an unbridgeable gap which must lead to tragic results . . . I beg you to take the strictest measures to provide additional protection for these plants." On July 9, ten days after Speer's letter to Hitler, ULTRA picked up another