lanes above became louder, and he saw the marker flares gliding down against the night sky. Werner thought, If this gets worse, my mother and sister will need my help more than my father. He headed back to the shelter. He had barely arrived when the first bombs exploded. The floor of the cellar heaved and then fell. The walls cracked. Dust filled the air. Water spurted out of cracked pipes. People moaned and sometimes cried out. Others prayed. Werner thought about his father. July 28 I A.M., BERLINER TOR The bombing began. When the first high explosives landed in Hammerbrook. everyone in the bunker fell silent. Through the thick concrete walls, the distant explosions sounded like dull thuds. But they gradually became louder and closer For half an hour, a carpet of bombs hammered the city. There were a few minutes of calm, then a massive explosion. The bunker heaved, and then sank. People were thrown from benches and landed on top of each other. For some time, the light had been flickering in the bunker. Then it went out. The electricity had gone, and with it the pump supplying fresh air. Soldiers forced, at gunpoint, the few men to operate the hand pumps. They got just enough air in to keep everyone alive. I A.M., STRESOWSTRASSE Werner and his family cowered in the cellar. As the fires caused by the incen- diary bombs lit up the neighbourhood, the temperature in the cellar began to rise. They could either wait there or take their chances in the street. If they stayed, they risked asphyxiation, incineration, or being crushed. If they left, there were the dangers of the open street: bombs (old, unexploded ones and new ones), bomb craters, falling debris, and more fire. One of the men looked through the keyhole in the cellar's steel door to see what was happening. The roof and walls of the passageway were in flames. They had to get out of there. Werner and some of the men pushed against the door, but it refused to budge. Debris had fallen against it, trapping them. The