ht in the centre of the cities. Destroying these targets inevitably meant destroying houses and killing workers. These risks to civilians were compounded by strategy and, that great wild card, worsening weather. The Eighth had adopted Curtis LeMay's policy of "bombing on the leader." Only lead aircraft were given Norden bombsights, and the others were instructed to drop their bombs as soon as they saw bombs fall from the lead plane. The technique increased accuracy enormously, but it ensured that when things went wrong, they went horribly wrong. If the lead pilot bombed the wrong target, they all did. And if the bombing formation stretched back too far in poor weather, the bombers behind the leader blasted whatever was just before the target. Sometimes, in the case of rail centres in small cities, it was the whole town itself. "My squadron was on the tail end of a bombing strike against a railroad yard in a small industrial town," Eighth Air Force pilot Craig Harris recalled in 2003. "There were about 400 bombers in front of us as we approached the target. Our shadow, if we had one, would have covered almost the entire town. The clouds were so thick that we couldn't see a thing on the ground. The lead plane carried the radar equipment. When it passed over the target it dropped its bombs, along with a smoke maker, the signal for the rest of the formation to drop. The planes at the head of the formation wasted the marshalling yard, but the rest of us wasted the town."7 When a target was cloud-covered, H2X would identify the city but not the targets. In these situations-such as at Kassel (Octo- ber 2, 1944), Nuremberg (October 3), and Mannheim (October 19)-the Eighth  202 1 FIRE AND FURY Harris's and Spaatz's orders threw its bombs at the city. They wanted to avoid hitting towns if they could, but hit towns if they could do nothing else. Wasting towns-deliberately, not incidentally-was of course exactly what Harris wanted to do. On September 6, a week before the Septem