ent for you to see him. Stand by and be ready."15  FIRE AND FURY 84 1 Churchill, Roosevelt, and the future of bombing | 85 Eaker returned to his villa with his assistant, James Parton, took a pencil, and began outlining his argument, sending Parton off to check the occasional fact. They sat at one end of a long dining table. At the other end, Robert E. Murphy of the U.S. State Department huddled with Harold Macmillan, trying to broker a compromise between Giraud and de Gaulle.16 Eaker's work was inter- rupted frequently by visitors. At one point, General Patton-who was guarding the Anfa and the surrounding villas-strolled in wearing his pistols. Harry Hop- kins, whose recent marriage had given him a new spring in his step, also visited. Breaking only for these brief chats, Eaker wrote all afternoon and the next day.17 With an eye to Churchill's distaste for verbosity, he limited his reasons in favour of daylight bombing to seven, keeping another sixteen in his pocket as backup. Eaker handed the document to Parton for typing and flew to Algiers to con- fer with Spaatz. The two returned to Casablanca on January 19 after Arnold arranged a meeting with Churchill. Churchill, dressed again in his blue Air Commodore's uniform (which Eaker found "resplendent"), came down the stairs. He said to Eaker, "I understand you are very unhappy about my suggestion to your President that your Eighth Air Force join the RAF in night bombing." Without waiting for Eaker's reply, he continued: "Young man, I am half American; my mother was a U.S. citizen The tragic losses of so many of our gallant crews tears my heart. Marshall Har- ris tells me that his losses average two percent while yours are at least double this and sometimes higher." Churchill had this backwards-American losses had been 2.54 percent; British 4.7 percent-but Eaker resisted the temptation to correct the prime minister. He presented Churchill with a short memorandum, less than a page long, making his case. "I hope," he s