eted. With a great crash, it broke apart on landing, setting off further explosions. The circumstances behind Todt's death were never clarified. Was Speer tipped off the night before, leading him to cancel his flight? Did Hitler himself order  80 1 FIRE AND FURY Todt's execution? Were Himmler and the SS, without Hitler's knowledge, behind it? Todt himself seemed to have suspected something. Shortly before his death, he deposited a large sum of money in a safety deposit box and left instructions that it was to go to his secretary if anything happened to him.34 Whatever the cause of Todt's sudden death, when the news was passed on to Hitler, he paused briefly and then declared that Speer would be Todt's succes- sor. Speer was summoned into Hitler's rooms, where he was surprised to see the dictator standing up to receive him. Hitler solemnly declared, "Herr Speer, I appoint you successor to Dr. Todt in all his posts." Before waiting for a reply, he extended a hand to dismiss Speer. Speer stammered a reply, saying he would do his best but suggested that his work should be limited to taking over Todt's con- struction tasks. Hitler cut him off, telling Speer that he had his unbounded con- fidence. Speer then had, as he later put it, "one of the best and certainly most useful ideas of my life." He asked Hitler for a "Führer Order" giving him "noth- ing less than an unconditional promise of support." From that moment for- ward, Speer's orders would be Hitler's orders. Hitler hesitated briefly, then agreed. By February 1942, the die was cast. With Göring sidelined, Albert Speer had total, if not uncontested, control over German war production. Ira Eaker and. after him, Carl Spaatz had total, if not uncontested, control over the Eighth Air Force. Arthur Harris had total, if not uncontested, control over Bomber Com- mand. For the next three years, there would be a silent but furious struggle between the men who wanted to destroy Germany's effort to wage war and the man who wis