e available effort in one big attack on Berlin and related attacks on Dresden, Leipzig, Chemnitz or any other cities where a severe blitz will not only cause confusion in the evacuation from the East but will also hamper the movement of troops from the West." "I am therefore," Bottomley concluded, "to request that subject to the qualifi- cations stated above, and as soon as the moon and weather conditions allow, you will undertake such attacks with the particular object of exploiting the confused 1 243 conditions which are likely to exist in the above mentioned cities during the successful Russian advance."18 A similar argument was developing on the other side of the Atlantic. Arnold, always impatient for results, was increasingly strident in his demand for action. He had just suffered his fourth heart attack and was driven by the realization that the war might finish him before he finished Germany. "With [our] tremendous striking power," he wrote to Spaatz, "it would seem to me that we should get much better and much more decisive results than we are getting now. I am not criticizing, because frankly I don't know the answer and what I am now doing is letting my thoughts run wild with the hope that out of this you get a glim- mer, a light, a new thought, or something that will help us bring this war to a close sooner."19 It was an open appeal for something dramatic. And brutal. General Marshall was impatient as well. He wanted troops out of Europe and into the Pacific, and was prepared to try anything to get them there. Since the Germans had shown unexpected resistance, they had to be met with unexpected force. Just before Yalta, he met with Frederick Anderson and told him that he wanted Munich bombed (it would not be, at least not like Berlin), along with the cities in the Berlin-Leipzig-Dresden corridor. Eisenhower and Bradley signed on: there was no need to ask Roosevelt, as the president had for years called for hell's fury to be unleashed against Germany. In 19