ncontested, control over Bomber Com- mand. For the next three years, there would be a silent but furious struggle between the men who wanted to destroy Germany's effort to wage war and the man who wished to sustain it. 10 1 Churchill, Roosevelt, and the future of bombing n January 13, 1943, Eaker was just settling into his new house at Kingston Hill and was entertaining guests. He had been commander of the U.S. Eighth Air Force since December 1, 1942, when he replaced Spaatz, who had been transferred to North Africa. Midway through the soup course, a message from Eisenhower arrived: "Proceed at earliest practicable time to Casablanca for conference, reporting there to General Patton. Conference involves method of air operations from United Kingdom."1 The night before, Churchill had boarded a small plane with Charles Portal. They were bound for Casablanca, where they were to meet with Roosevelt. The meeting was originally planned as a "big-three" summit between Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin, but the Soviet leader's refusal to leave Moscow turned it into an Anglo-American summit. The meeting had been called to reach agree- ment on Allied tactics in the run-up to D-Day. The flight to Morocco was not an auspicious start. The airplane was a "Com- mando," a converted bomber. It had no central heating unit, so the RAF had installed a petrol heater in the bomb alley and linked it to heating points throughout the airplane. One of these was below the toes of the sleeping prime minister. At 2 A.M., the point had become red hot, and Churchill's burning toes woke him. He climbed down from his bunk and woke Portal. Together, they found two other equally hot points, and traced them back to the bomb alley, where two men were industriously keeping the flames going. Fumes were filling the alley and drifting up toward the red-hot points. "I decided," Churchill wrote 81  FIRE AND FURY 82 | Churchill, Roosevelt, and the future of bombing later, "that it was better to freeze than burn