c- tive, that would be acceptable. It would of course be better if you could achieve your diversionary effect by attacking targets mentioned in the directive, but this may not always be possible. There has never been any question of limiting your tactical freedom. After fairly clearly demolishing the arguments Harris had presented against oil bombing, Portal balked. He invited Harris to reopen the already long debate about what was essential. He reminded Harris that there were plenty of cities that he could decimate as part of the Allied directive, and that in effect the Air Ministry would turn a blind eye when destroying a city not on the lists some- how served the directive. It was an open invitation. Harris would take it. 23 1 Portal pleads Throughout the summer of 1944, Speer had been fighting to keep German 1 production levels up in the face of the oil attack. Doing so required two related efforts: rushing to rebuild bombed oil refineries and synthetic oil plants and increasing fighter production. On October 12, 1944, Speer was at a conference when Hitler took him aside. "You must not breathe a word of this to anyone." Hitler told him of plans to amass all available German forces for a large-scale offensive in the west. The idea was to assemble sixteen divisions of Wehrmacht soldiers on the Rhine, and in a surprise attack sweep through the Eifel and Ardennes, through Belgium and on to the Chan- nel coast.1 They would take Antwerp and from there circle and destroy American divisions. "For that," Hitler continued, "you must organize a special corps of German construction workers, one sufficiently motorized to be able to carry out all types of bridge building even if rail transportation should be halted. Stick to the organizational forms that proved their value in the western campaign of 1940."2 Speer, who had witnessed industrial production plummet in the face of repeated American oil attacks, replied, "But, my Führer, we scarcely have enough trucks left for such