e Führer's."21 After his Nuremberg triumph, Speer set his sights on a glittering prize: the transformation of the Third Reich's capital. Hitler viewed the city with a mix of hatred and hope. He loathed its liberality and permissiveness; its Jewish theatres,  FIRE AND FURY 76| homosexual bars, and Negro bands; its left-wing politics and skeptical citizens. But he believed it would, following Germany's victory, be the capital of the world He wanted to tear out its centre and transform it into an architectural wonder that would outclass Paris, Vienna, and Rome. In late 1936, Hitler summoned Speer without warning and charged him with rebuilding Berlin. Speer saw himself as a modern Hausmann. As the latter had transformed Paris's tiny, irregular streets into grand, uniform avenues, Speer would sweep away Berlin's neighbourhoods in favour of bombastic public buildings, expan- sive boulevards, and clean, crisp lines. Speer's first task was Hitler's new Reich chancellery. Hitler gave him the order to start on it in January 1938, and insisted it be finished within a year. It was a seemingly impossible task, but Speer worked feverishly throughout 1938 and into 1939. On one Thursday morning, near the project's completion, Speer took the Fasanenstrasse, in Charlottenburg, to work He passed the smouldering ruins of a public building at number 70-80. The date was November 10, 1938; the building was the Berlin Central Synagogue. Goebbels had sent his SA dogs on a rampage across the country, destroying 270 synagogues, wrecking 7500 businesses, and killing 190 Jews. Hundreds more killed themselves. Goebbels had singled out the Fasanenstrasse synagogue for destruction. As Speer passed the collapsed facade, perhaps even stepping over one or more of the charred beams scattered on the street, his thoughts were elsewhere. Three months after Kristallnacht, the Reich chancellery was opened on schedule. Speer showed his teacher, Tessenow, the plans and noted that he had managed to finish th