dy was a raging inferno they dropped their bombs instead on the southern edges of the inner city, hitting the city's Great Garden where Dresdeners had sought refuge. After the second bombing, the city was doomed. The fires leaped out of windows and open roofs. In the narrow streets of the city centre, fires from buildings on either side, searching for oxygen, merged in the centre, creating a ceiling of flames. It began to move toward the ground. The fires from the fourth, third, second, and ground floors joined in the centre of the street. Still looking for oxygen, the flames moved through the streets at breathtak- ing speed. As in Hamburg one-and-a-half years earlier, hundreds of these fires converged in the centre of the old city. They had nowhere to go but up. A great column of flames shot into the sky, setting off a process that created the firestorm. The column rose further, sucking in more air and gases. The process became self- fulfilling, and the fire climbed miles into the sky. Dresden was dying. On the street, winds created by the firestorm reached ninety-five miles an hour. People struggled against them, went mad, and were sucked into the flames. By 1:40 A.M., anyone left in the cellars was dead or dying.  246 | FIRE AND FURY American area bombing It was not over, however. On February 14, the Eighth Air Force hit the city. Its aiming point-if a visual raid was possible-was the centre of the city. Dres- den was to be another Berlin. What they in fact bombed was the Friedrichstadt station and marshalling yards in the suburbs-to which inner city residents had fled the night before. "It was," historian Richard Taylor wrote, "as if the enemy had anticipated the Dresdeners' every move, and then killed them like cattle cun- ningly driven into holding pens."28 Or, at least thirty-five thousand of them. The raid on Dresden was quickly followed by attacks on other cities. On the night of February 14, Bomber Command attacked the centre of Chemnitz, near Dresden, wit