North Africa. At this point in the war, as Harris was hitting Cologne, the United States had only 1871 men in England-mostly ground staff-and not a single airplane.3 The next day, Winant sent an urgent message to President Roosevelt: "England is the place to win the war. Get planes and troops over here as soon as possible." Roosevelt would, but for the moment it was the British who brought the war to Germany. ermann Göring was the most colourful figure among the senior Nazi 1 hierarchy. As a young man, he was rakishly handsome, with haunting pale eyes. Throughout the 1930s and into the war, his hunger for food, luxury, and fame had been insatiable. He became fatter and fatter. Heavy perfumes, large rings, mountains of clothes, and even lipstick were standard features of his wardrobe. Göring would never take a trip to Paris or Vienna without trolling through the shopping districts for fine clothing, art, and jewellery. This decadence horrified the sombre and snobbish soldiers and bureaucrats who met him.1 When Göring attended the first launch of Germany's ill-fated wonder weapon, the unmanned V-2 ( Vergeltungswaffe 2, or revenge weapon 2) rocket, the general in charge-Dornberger-looked at him with disgust.2 "Soft Morocco leather riding-boots of glaring red with silver spurs," Dornberger later wrote, "a very voluminous greatcoat of Australian opossum fur with the hide turned outside. Platinum rings with big rubies." In an odd sort of way, Göring's flamboyance endeared him to Hitler. The Austrian was himself always keenly aware of his status as an outsider, and he indulged Göring's vulgarity and ostentation pre- cisely because they made him so different from the austere German upper and middle classes.3 Göring's odd personality also earned him a few sympathetic remarks from his British adversaries. The British have always been much more celebratory of eccen- tricities than the Germans, and the English upper class found Göring's dress and manners amusing rather than off