ouhet wrote, "to shoot down all the birds in flight if you want to wipe out the species; there remain the eggs and the nest." Such war would be total and Cromwellian in its brutality: "Any distinction between belligerents and non-belligerents is no longer admis- sible . .. because when nations are at war, everyone takes a part in it; the soldier carrying his gun, the women loading shells in a factory, the farmer growing wheat, the scientist in his laboratory." While Douhet's project was ultimately genocidal-war was a "merciless pounding from the air" aimed at destroying the civilian population-Mitchell's was, or was meant to be, humane (though his views were never entirely consis- tent).9 Air wars would be violent, but fewer people would die. Constructing an image that seduced generations of aviators, Mitchell believed that a dazzling bombardment would knock out the pillars of the enemy's war machine, destroy the people's will to fight, and lead to a quick surrender before the Army and Navy had even mobilized. The wars of the future might be nasty and brutish, but they would be-above all, in comparison with the prolonged slaughter of the First World War-short.  38 1 FIRE AND FURY The Americans 1 Still at relatively young ages, Arnold, Spaatz, and Eaker risked their careers for Mitchell. After accusing the Army and Navy (which blocked his plans for an independent air force) of incompetence and an "almost treasonable admin. istration of the national defense," Mitchell was court-martialled in 1925. Spaata and Arnold bravely spoke in his defence at the trial. Eaker worked quietly behind the scenes to help shape the defence. Mitchell was convicted of insubordination and given a five-year suspension. Refusing to be silenced, he resigned and pressed the case for air power as a civilian. For their part, Eaker, Spaatz, and Arnold survived the trial, but they drew at least one powerful lesson from it. "There must be something to this public relations business,"10 they were re