evance, about the time wasted on the Luftwaffe, about the role of city bombing in aiding the armies' advance on Europe, and about the problems caused by city bombing for the Germans). In a rare admission of failure, Harris conceded after the war that the oil campaign had been "a complete success, but added: "I still do not think it was reasonable, at the time, to expect that campaign would succeed; what the Allied strategists did was to bet on an out- sider, and it happened to win the race."63 And yet the supporters of the oil and transportation plans, in Britain and in America, based their conclusions on the work of the Committee of Operations Analysts, the Ministry of Economic Warfare, the Joint Intelligence Committee, and multiple intelligence reports. Throughout the war, Harris insisted on claims that proved to be wrong. He insisted that area bombing would force the Germans to capitulate; it didn't. He insisted that the precision bombing wouldn't work; the Americans made it work. He insisted that going after the Luftwaffe was pointless; doing so made the bombing war possible. He insisted that oil, transportation, and ball bearings were irrelevant; they were either decisive (oil, transport) or could have been (ball bearings). Harris insisted on a strategy that failed and that cost the lives of hundreds of thousands-British, American, and Canadian, as well as German. Historians should try to understand the position Harris was in and the reasons behind his actions; equally, however, they should hold him responsible for those actions. After flattening dozens of cities and killing hundreds of thousands of civilians, Harris should be held to account and not simply be forgiven for making a "bad call." That said, in the Anglo-American system of governance, the supremacy of civilian control over military is sacred. Churchill could have stopped area bombing and he did not; indeed, near the end of the war, he urged it on. One final issue remains to be considered because it