view Harris's book in its Journal of the Royal United Services Institute. Harris was finished. He spent the next eight years in South African obscurity, running a shipping company. He returned to England in 1953, retiring in Goring-on-Thames. He spoke little and his neighbours knew nothing of his wartime activities. To the end, he retained the support and loyalty of his men. Speer and Göring turned themselves in, and both were tried for war crimes at Nuremberg. Göring was sentenced to death by hanging, but-it is believed- his American guard gave him enough cyanide to kill himself. Milch was con- victed of war crimes (against prisoners of war and slave labourers) and sentenced to life in prison. The Americans later reduced this to fifteen years, and he was released in 1954. He wrote a book on the Luftwaffe and made a living advising industry. Galland did rather better, enjoying a long career in aviation that began with lectures to the RAF on tactics. Speer was sentenced to twenty years' imprisonment and was released in 1966. He spent most of the postwar period trying to justify his role in the Nazi regime, and denying his knowledge of the worst Nazi crimes. Only near the end of his life did he effectively admit to Gitta Sereny that he knew, at the time that the Jews of Europe were being murdered in the millions. Had he said so at Nuremberg, he would have been hanged.3 Churchill lost the 1945 election to Attlee, but-ever the master of the his- torical record-managed to escape ignominy for carpet bombing. After ordering the destruction of Dresden, his strategic memo of April 1, 1945, is still cited as evidence of Churchill's opposition to bombing civilians. On the other side of the Atlantic, Eaker, Arnold, and Spaatz fared much better. Eaker and Spaatz were promoted, retired with honours, and enjoyed suc- cessful postwar careers. President Truman personally signed a bill making Arnold the air force's only permanent general. Across the United States, roads, schools, air