ere to lead to the defeat of Germany, the others being the protection of sea lanes . .. and the intervention of the USA."3 The report also argued that demoralizing the Germans by attacking their cities would be imprac- tical and unrealistic. In September 1939, Harris and his wife were in Norfolk, staying with their friends Jean and Adeline Tresfon. On the night of September 3, two days after Germany invaded Poland, the Harrises and Tresfons were sitting around the fire listening to a crackling radio. Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, his voice full of melancholy, announced, "This country is"-pause-"at war with Ger- many." It was, Harris remarked, "uninspired and uninspiring ... about as stir- ring as a school-master confirming the fact that mumps had broken out in his prep. school." The four of them sat in silence for a few minutes. Jean turned to Harris and asked, "How long will this one be?" "Five years," replied Harris. And he ran to the phone. The lines were complete chaos and Harris could not get through to the Air Ministry. He finally demanded that the operator give him "immediate prior- ity." The term lacked meaning or authority, but it worked. He got Portal on the phone and said he wanted a job. Portal replied with words to the effect of "I'll see what I can do." For the next four days, the minutes ticked by slowly. Finally, the phone rang. Portal would see him in London. There, Portal told Harris that he was to take over as Air Officer Commanding (AOC) of 5 Group, Bomber Command at Grantham. He served there until 1940, when Portal was promoted to commander-in-chief of Bomber Command. Portal contacted Harris and asked him to become his deputy. Harris viewed the thought of returning to desk work with horror but felt he had little choice but to agree. His fears were soon confirmed. The hours were, in his words, appalling. He arrived at the office at 9 A.M. every morning and rarely returned before midnight. Often he would have to work until three or four in t