t, his thoughts were elsewhere. Three months after Kristallnacht, the Reich chancellery was opened on schedule. Speer showed his teacher, Tessenow, the plans and noted that he had managed to finish the building in only nine months. Tessenow dryly replied, "I would have preferred you to have taken nine years."22 The chancellery was the beginning and the end of Speer's Berlin. The city's mayor, Julius Lippert, was a Berliner first and a Nazi second, and he threw up every bureaucratic obstacle he could think of to prevent the destruction of his city's core. Speer's redesign of Berlin amounted to the moving of the victory column from the Reichstag to the Tiergarten, the widening of the east-west axis leading to the column, and the installation of new lampposts around it. That was it. In September 1939, war began. Hitler wanted him to continue, but Speer knew better. He went to the office of one of his collaborators, his face pale. Pointing to plans scattered around the room, he said, "It's all over."23 After the war started, Speer made a transition from architecture to armaments. He spent the first two years of the war overseeing demolition work in the run-up to his never-realized building projects. Most of the demolished buildings were Goring and Speer | 77 residential, and a Central Department for Resettlement was created as part of Speer's empire. Many of the demolished apartment blocks had Jewish occupants. Still more Jews were evicted as these buildings' non-Jewish occupants quickly rehoused. The legal basis for this was found in an April 1939 "law on rental con- tracts with Jews," which allowed the eviction of Jewish tenants if "alternative accommodation" could be found. In Berlin, Speer's Central Department for Resettlement was charged with overseeing the evictions and finding new accom- modation for the evicted.24 Speer's resettlement department was not his first contact with the Jews. Thou- sands of Jews had been arrested during Kristallnacht, and afterwards ma