ot be necessary."6 Working long hours, Hansell, Walker, and Kuter rehearsed the document with each other until they knew it by heart.7 The three men then presented it to Marshall, Stimson, and Hopkins. 43 The lecturers, as it were, flew on a wing and a prayer. At a time when the United States had thirteen B-17s, they spoke of thousands. The large figures, Hansell later said, "scared us very badly at the time."8 But the presentation went over well. It was then leaked to the Chicago Tribune, resulting in strong public support.9 The leak also ensured that the details of the plan were publicized before the draft was sent on to the Army, which would have almost certainly reworked it.10 Having already won two wars-over money and power-Arnold now needed to win another-over strategy. His opponents were not in the U.S. Air Forces (everyone agreed on daylight precision bombing) but across the Atlantic: the British. In May 1940, Arnold sent Spaatz to London. Officially, he was there as an "Assistant Military Attaché (Air) to Britain"; unofficially, he was a "high-class spy" studying the air war and the state of Britain in it." Though it was a low point in Britain's war, Spaatz formed prescient views about the limits of German air power and the ability of the British to hold out.12 A year later, Arnold visited. By this point, America's entry into the war seemed more and more likely. Arnold expected to meet with Portal, then Chief of Air Staff and overseeing an air war that was still formally committed to precision bombing. The RAF was bombing German warships in support of the Royal Navy, a job that the commander- in-chief of Bomber Command, Richard Peirse, resisted. Peirse-supposedly a confident supporter of precision bombing-complained bitterly to Portal that his pilots were wasting hundreds of tons of bombs on a job for which they were neither trained nor prepared.13 Beyond Portal, Arnold held out hope for a meeting with Lord Beaverbrook, then Churchill's production coordinat