nd simple. "We were told today," a member of Welch's crew wrote in his diary, "that if we had any scru- ples about bombing civilians, it was hard luck for us because from now on we'll be bombing and strafing women, children, everybody."6 More than a hundred thousand people were made homeless and at least three thousand civilians (prob- ably many more, because the city was packed with millions of refugees) were killed, the largest single death toll for any raid on the capital. Two weeks after the raid, on February 17, German radio announced that the Wehrmacht was awarding the Order of the White Feather to Spaatz for "exceptional cowardice" in laying a "carpet of bombs" across a city "crowded with hundreds of thou- sands of refugees, principally women and children."7 The Nazis' only award to those women and children was more suffering: "The homeless masses," Goebbels declared, "must share whatever new disaster may befall [the capital]."8 Such sympathy as the Germans received came from the aircrew. "Shacked women and children," wrote one bomb releaser on his airplane immediately after the raid. Another, a radio operator named James Henrietta, said much later, Berlin "bothered me for a long time. In fact, it still does. . . . I'm thinking we're bombing out a lot of people who maybe were helpless victims."9 The February raid on Berlin emerged from a complex set of first British, then American proposals set out over the early months of 1945. Both forces dusted off the THUNDERCLAP proposal of the previous summer. On Janu- ary 12, the Russians launched their winter offensive. On January 25, the British Joint Intelligence Committee issued two reports on how best to assist the Rus- sians. The first report argued that attacks on five targets would help the Soviet offensive.10 The most important of them was oil. After oil, the committee rec- ommended attacks on tank factories, on Berlin (to disrupt troop flows), and on German reinforcements moving from Italy or Hungary. It also