m his British adversaries. The British have always been much more celebratory of eccen- tricities than the Germans, and the English upper class found Göring's dress and manners amusing rather than offensive.4 As one of his critics, Sir Eric 71  72 1 FIRE AND FURY Göring and Speer | Phipps, British ambassador to Berlin, 1933-1937, put it, "Lunching with the Wa den of New College [Oxford], General Göring might pass as almost civilized Lord Halifax was even more positive. After meeting Goring, Halifax had. admit that he had found the Nazi "immensely" entertaining. "Göring met me on the way, dressed in brown breeches and boots all in one, with a green leathe Jerkin and full-collared short coat on top. ... Altogether a very picturesque and arresting figure, completed by green hat and large chamois tuft!"6 Goring's oddities and his charm-which would briefly serve him well at rh Nuremberg trials-have encouraged the view that he was less sinister than the other senior Nazi colleagues, even harmless. He was anything but. When the Reichstag fire broke out, Göring launched an indiscriminate wave of repression, instruct ing the Prussian police to shoot anyone who demonstrated and giving the SA (Ernst Röhm's storm troopers) a free hand to terrorize left-wing opponents The Prussian police largely ignored the order, but the SA went on a rampage. A little over a year later, Goring played a decisive role in The Night of Long Knives On June 30, 1934, partly in response to Göring's prodding, Hitler moved against his erstwhile friend and ally Rohm. On that infamous day, Göring presided over the liquidation of his enemies.8 Göring oversaw the expropriation of Jewish property and the Aryanization of the German economy, and he ensured that both policies were carried out ruthlessly. During the war, he worked closely with the SS on the "recruitment" of slave labour.9 Göring was born on January 12, 1893. Like so many Germans of his generation. he was defined by the First World War. A fighter