ight. If they hit buildings but failed to smash out the doors and windows, there would not be enough oxygen to feed the fire. If they 63 levelled the building entirely, what would have been an inferno became a fire break instead. Rubble, as Harris noted when he explained his tendency to avoid follow-up attacks on a bombed city, does not burn. These technical questions led to one of many debates between Harris and the Air Ministry. After both raids, reconnaissance flights took photos of the dam- age, and sent these on to the Air Ministry. In late April, the Vice Chief of Air Staff, Wilfred Freeman, a Rugby graduate, the son of "new" industrial wealth, and an early backer of Harris, was inspecting the photos. To Freeman, it seemed that Rostock-which had been blasted with more high explosives than L端beck-was in better shape post-bombing than L端beck (it wasn't, but photos provided only a rough guide). He therefore made a case for using more incen- diaries and fewer high explosives in each raid: My Dear Bert, The records show that in the attack on L端beck, you got 45,080 four-lb incendiaries on to the target. As a result, the defences were saturated and the town was set ablaze. In none of the attacks on Rostock was anything like so great a number of incendiaries dropped and the photographs sug- gest that the fires never took hold as they did at L端beck. The moral seems to be that unless the incendiary attack is on a large scale and concentrated in time and space, it will not achieve any decisive degree of destruction.6 Freeman had drafted the letter carefully. He knew, as the mandarins in the Air Ministry gently put it, that the commander-in-chief "did not welcome inde- pendent opinions." He hoped that his gentle, suggestive tone would prevent Harris from overreacting. It did not. The letter irritated Harris, as it illustrated that, once again, the bureaucrats above him had misunderstood the point of area bombing. It wasn't to destroy houses for the sake of destroying hous