âce. "If, therefore, it is your view that the strategic picture has changed since the issue of your original directive I would urge that revised instructions should be given to the Chiefs of Staff without a moment's delay." Churchill declined the offer. He was not entirely comfortable with area bombing, but he was still less comfortable with the idea of shifting Britain's strategy from the Royal Air Force to the Army. Britain was in no position to launch an invasion of the Continent in 1941, and even if it were, Churchill recoiled at the prospect of a post-invasion return to the Somme or Passchen- daele. Britain had no option but to fight back with the RAF; the RAF could only bomb, and the experience of the last two years of the war had made it clear that the only chance for bombing was area bombing. Churchill was not convinced- and nor was Portal, for that matter-that area bombing would win the war, but hoped it would produce some kind of effect. Churchill wrote back on October 7 and gave his qualified support to the campaign. Everything is being done to create the Bombing force desired on the largest possible scale, and there is no intention of changing that policy. I depre- cate, however, placing unbounded confidence in this form of attack. .. . It is the most potent method of impairing the enemy's morale at the present time. ... [However,] even if all the towns in Germany were rendered unin- habitable, it does not follow that the military control would be weakened or even that war industry could not be carried on. It is quite possible that Nazi war-making power in 1943 will be so widely spread throughout Europe as to be to a large extent independent of the buildings in the actual homeland. A different picture would be presented if the enemy's Air Force were so far reduced as to enable heavy accurate daylight bombing of factories to take place. This however cannot be done outside the radius of fighter protection. This insightful letter was hardly a ringing endors