ily bombed and most thoroughly destroyed. In the last weeks of the war, Harris returned to the Ruhr. Essen was blasted for the last time and, on March 12. eleven thousand RAF bombers dropped five thousand tons of bombs on Dortmund, wiping what was left of that city off the map. Four days later, it was Würzburg's turn. From March 1 to 27, Harris area bombed thirteen cities with more than a thousand tons of bombs on each raid. During the same period, the Eighth Air Force dropped 40 percent of its bombs on rail targets, 13 percent on oil, and the rest on jet, vehicle, tank, and U-boat production. The Fifteenth Air Force dropped 60 percent of its bombs on marshalling yards and 25 percent on oil. March 1945 was the peak of the bombing offensive. On March 28, 1945, Churchill penned a memorandum for General Ismay, his Chief of Staff. "It seems to me," wrote the prime minister, that the moment has come when the question of bombing of German cities simply for the sake of increasing the terror, though under other pre- texts, should be reviewed. Otherwise we shall come into control of an utterly ruined land. . .. I am of the opinion that military objectives must henceforward be more strictly studied in our interests rather than that of the enemy. The Foreign Secretary has spoken to me on this subject, and I feel the need for more precise concentration upon military objectives such as oil Doubts | 261 and communications behind the battle-zone, rather than on mere acts of terror and wanton destruction, however impressive.6 The war was coming to an end, and Churchill-the-commander was giving way to Churchill-the-historian. The prime minister was capable of great emo- tion, and he did feel genuine regret over Dresden's destruction. The memo was nonetheless a calculated effort to distance himself from a bombing war that he had long, if somewhat erratically, supported. And it infuriated Harris. Bottomley had sent him the note the next morn- ing. The allegations of terror were an "in