s varied so much in this compact corner of Germany. Finally, the statistics again give the lie to Harris's argument, and that of his apologists: over the course of the war, the Americans made 347 separate oil strikes; the British made 158 (including oil strikes made in the early years of the war). As weather did not distinguish between Americans and Britons,41 it is difficult to see how Harris could have been doing, as he claimed, his best. Oil was the most important precision target. As Speer put it, "The planned assaults on the chemical industry which began on 12th May 1944 caused the first serious shortages of indispensable basic products and therefore the greatest anx- ieties for the future conduct of the war. . . . I had the impression that these attacks were to mark the beginning of the long expected and long feared series of planned attacks upon [the] industrial economy and moreover upon a sphere which owing to its complicated structure was particularly difficult to restore and impossible to decentralize. In actual fact, this type of attack was the most decisive factor in hastening the end of the war." 42 It was not, however, the only one. Attacks on transportation-railway sta- tions, bridges, roads-were complementary to the oil campaign in that they fur- ther disrupted the movement of oil and made repairs to damaged equipment more difficult. They also interfered with the movement of coal and finished goods, entirely disrupting the planned economy that Speer had used to achieve 281 his production "miracle."43 Finally, they severely affected troop movements. "In May and June 1944, Speer noted, "the concentrated day and night attacks on the Ruhr transport and communications system first began to cause most seri- ous anxieties about future developments, since supplies to industry in the rest of the Reich of the numerous products of the Ruhr, ranging from coal to sin- gle items, were bottled up in the Ruhr."44 During 1945, the U.S. Eighth Air Force dropped 50 per