illing them would do nothing to serve the interests of the Allies during the war or after it. Hughes attacked Weicker's plans as yet another stab at the "will of the wisp of 'morale." Nazi repression made German resistance impossible, so terror bombing would only serve as confirmation of German propaganda. It would lead to a reaction among the American people against "indiscriminate area bombing," and would-not least-violate the principles to which the country  192 | FIRE AND FURY Oil and baby killing had committed itself. Although the United States may have at times been hypocritical on moral issues, the country nonetheless "represented in world thought an urge toward decency and better treatment of man by man."56 The Japanese might shoot American POWs; the Americans would never do the same to Japanese. "Hot blood is one thing," Hughes added. "Reason and the long view is another." Cabell, who was a principled opponent of indiscriminate area bombing, agreed, and he asked that Spaatz reject the plan. Eisenhower, how- ever, had the last word, and while he did not order the bombing of small towns, he told Spaatz to be ready to bomb the centre of Berlin at a moment's notice.57 Notice was not given, at least not in 1944. While all of this was going on, the case for attacking oil was growing. On July 9, the day of the ULTRA intercept confirming how deeply affected Ger- man oil supplies had been, the British Air Ministry announced the formation of a joint Anglo-American oil targets committee, which was to keep the Axis oil position under review, to assess the damage inflicted, and to determine the priority of further attacks.58 During the month of July, then, two different committees were established: a joint Anglo-American committee to look at oil, and a working committee (made up of Air Staff, Foreign Office, MEW , and USSTAF representatives) to look at morale. At the end of the month, they both reported. The joint com- mittee concluded that "Germany will be unable to co