ders streaked through the Kammhuber Line unimpeded. Hun- dreds of bombers followed them. Whereas dozens upon dozens of Luftwaffe fighters might normally attack the bomber stream, only a handful-drawn by the pathfinders' first flares-were there tonight. They only managed one "kill," an unfortunate Lancaster. 12:30 A.M., STADE Schwabedissen and his officers watched the screen intensely.8 Scores of white dots-bombers they had known about since II P.M .- were making their way across the screen. Radio operators relayed their positions to Luftwaffe fighters, who had already engaged. Then, suddenly, something incredible happened. The tail of the bomber stream began to expand while the front continued to surge forward. The bombers seemed to be reproducing themselves. Schwabedissen screamed at the staff: "What in the hell is going on here?" But they had no bet- ter idea than he did. Down below, radio operators patched through calls to radar stations throughout the northwest; they were all told the same story: there were not hundreds of bombers, but thousands, and seemingly more by the minute. Some radar screens showed general "fuzz" rather than distinct blips, as if a solid wall of bombers, several miles wide, was moving across Germany.9 Imperial war Museum London In the air, the confusion was total. German fighters followed instructions, only to find themselves not in the middle of the bomber stream but rather in empty sky without an airplane in sight. Others were ordered to turn to port, then starboard, then port again with dizzying speed. Others still were sent  112 1 FIRE AND FURY To destroy Hamburg 1 around in endless circles. As one Luftwaffe pilot said, "The radio reports kept contradicting themselves. Now the enemy was over Amsterdam and then suddenly west of Brussels, and a moment later they were reported far out to sea. ... [In a typical exchange, a comrade suddenly shouted] 'Tommy flying at us at great speed. Distance decreasing . . . 2,000 yards . . . 1,500 . . .