ecide who's a Jew" Göring is reported to have said. On the morning of May 31, 1942, Göring leaned over a report from the mayor of Cologne. His assistant and another high-ranking Nazi official were also in the room. "Impossible," he said to his assistant. "You can't drop that many bombs on a city in one night." Göring got Cologne's mayor on the phone and told him: "Your police report is nothing but lies. I'm telling you as Reichs- marschall that the figures you gave are too high! How can we give the Führer such figures? I'm telling you, they're too high!" Göring allowed the mayor a short response, and then continued: "Are you telling me I'm lying? I'm giving the Führer the correct figures, and that's it!" Göring had good reason to deny the report. Since being appointed leader of the Luftwaffe, his career and influence within the Nazi party had been in decline. The Blitz, which he oversaw, had failed to bring Britain to its knees, and he had rashly staked what was left of his reputation on one claim: "if a single bomb falls on the Ruhr [valley], you can call me Meyer [a twit]." Cologne was in the Rhineland, but Essen, in the heart of the Ruhr valley, was next. Harris hit it the day after Cologne, and three more times in June 1942 alone. He also repeat- edly bombed Bremen, Emden, Duisburg, Düsseldorf, Osnabrück, Hamburg, the great medieval city of Frankfurt, the small Hanseatic city of Wismar, Aachen, Stuttgart, the northern city of Kiel, and the southern city of Munich. The bombings made Göring and his Luftwaffe look incompetent. More importantly, they strengthened the hand of the other official in the room with him as he screamed down the telephone: Albert Speer. Speer was born in the then-prosperous bourgeois town of Mainz in 1905. His father, an architect by training, had grown rich through buying, redesigning, and selling property, and it was he who convinced Albert to study architecture rather than his true love, mathematics.13 Beyond that fateful moment, there w