nd attached it to his note. He concluded by saying, "I expect that you will wish to take steps to scotch this idea in the C.O.S. [Chiefs of Staff] on Monday"47 On July 4, Portal arrived at the meeting prepared. He argued that Churchill's threat would be the equivalent of an invitation to negotiate; that the Germans would not alter their behaviour to save militarily irrelevant towns; and that bombing them would divert Allied air forces from attacks on oil, communica- tions, and the battle in France.48 The committee agreed to "further careful con- sideration and discussion at a future date"-an old bureaucratic trick for shelving an issue. Churchill, however, was in a vengeful mood and was not prepared to let the matter rest.49 At a War Cabinet meeting that evening, he ordered his Chiefs to take up the issue the next day.50 Portal argued still more forcefully against it: "No threat is likely to deter Hitler in his present fix. Indeed, it may well encourage him to order more F.B.s [Flying Bombs] and make still further efforts to increase the scale of the attack."" The only effect would be to distract bombers from military targets, including V-1 launch sites. The Chiefs of Staff agreed to a report on all aspects of retaliatory bombing, including poisonous gas. The report was turned around within hours. Heavily steered by Portal, it repeated the Chief of Air Staff's arguments about costs, diversions, negotiating, and retaliation.52 It also argued that such wanton destruction was inconsistent with liberal democracy and Britain's moral stance. The Germans did not face the constraint of "moral scru- ples or public opinion" and would win in a tit-for-tat game of destruction. Britain would surrender the moral high ground by adopting a policy of reprisals. We have hitherto always maintained consistently in all public statements regarding our bombing policy that it is directed against military objec- tives and that any damage to civilians is incidental to our attack on the Germa