l and transportation were the first priorities. Portal dismissed Harris's "boredom" argument. Morale could only benefit from bombing over a strategically important target under relatively safe condi- tions. Bombing a city was not like visiting one; they did not look radically dif- ferent from the air. The excitement of the raid flowed from its danger, the flash of lights, fires, sound of flak. Most crews would happily do with less excitement in the form of incoming German fighters.  FIRE AND FURY 220 1 Portal might have left it at that. Instead-for reasons that are not at all clear- he handed Harris another lifeline. Apparently as a sop to the commander-in- chief's support for city bombing, he urged Harris to see the degrees of freedom the directives allowed him: When conditions are unlikely to be suitable for [visual] attacks on the specific targets, such as oil plants or railway centres, which is often the case in the winter, your directive makes provision for the attack of some twenty-four industrial centres throughout Germany, including Breslau, Dresden, Chemnitz and Munich. Such occasions might perhaps be exploited with the object of further increasing the enemy's uncertainty. For the present, therefore, I feel that neither the restrictions implicit in the directives, nor their effect in terms of increased losses are as serious as your letter suggests. Whether or not the enemy can overcome his pres- ent difficulties and inflict increasing losses upon us, only time can show; in such an event, you would have unlimited tactical licence under your directive to deal with the situation. For example, should it be essential for tactical reasons, in order to bomb Leuna, to send out considerable forces to attack one or two other targets not specifically mentioned in the direc- tive, that would be acceptable. It would of course be better if you could achieve your diversionary effect by attacking targets mentioned in the directive, but this may not always be possible. Ther