em." The armed forces were not prepared to admit that the invasion of Germany was dependent on bombing, and the Americans viewed the destruction of morale through bombing as a lost cause.26 However, they agreed to insert the sentence on morale to satisfy the British. The directive continued: Within that general concept, your primary objectives, subject to the exi- gencies of weather and of tactical feasibility, will for the present be in the following order: (a) German submarine construction yards (b) The German aircraft industry (c) Transportation (d) Oil plants (e) Other targets in enemy war industry It went on to specify other worthwhile targets: submarine operating bases of the Biscay coast, Berlin (inserted at Churchill's insistence), and northern Italy in support of the navies. The directive ended by summing up the two air forces' role: You should take every opportunity to attack Germany by day, to destroy objectives that are unsuitable for night attack, to sustain continuous pres- sure on German morale, to impose heavy losses on the German day fighter force and to contain German fighter strength away from the Russian and Mediterranean theatres of war. Whenever Allied armies re-enter the Continent, you will afford all pos- sible support in the manner most effective. In attacking objectives in occupied territories, you will conform to such instructions as may be issued from time to time for political reasons by His Majesty's government through the British Chiefs of Staff. The commander-in-chief was unimpressed. The directive, like so many others that issued from the Air Ministry, was based on a flawed idea: that bombing one or more precision targets would be a panacea. Harris was convinced it wouldn't be. The whole point of bombing, for Harris, was to take out German cities and everything within them. All German cities, not simply Berlin. The question was how he would continue to do so while respecting the directive. As one author puts it in the doublespeak com