uty Director 137  FIRE AND FURY 138 | The Battle of Berlin 1 of Bombing Operations at the Air Ministry, told Martin Middlebrook after the war, Portal showed extraordinary patience, hoping that Harris would conform There was much correspondence over a long period. Harris replied with his tactical reasons why he would not conform with the directives, and all the time doing his own thing. We suspected that we were being put off but we had nothing cast-iron and, as background, Harris had this access to Chequers where he was at least once a week. In a way, it was subversive. going behind Portal's back, and in my opinion he was thoroughly disloyal to Portal in pursuing his own idea of how to win the war.3 Yet, even the Air Ministry could not resist the image of German cities con sumed by flames. As Bufton admitted, "Hamburg had come like a bolt from the blue. We didn't mind if Harris was able to mount a successful repetition on anv industrial area, Berlin or anywhere else, as long as he intended to start toward the specific targets eventually."4 Among even his critics, Harris had won himself some freedom. On the evening of August 23, Harris launched the opening raid in the Bat- tle of Berlin. By 10 P.M., more than six hundred bombers were streaking toward Berlin, their bays packed with the bundles of Window that had proved their sal- vation over Hamburg. When they reached the Kammhuber Line, it seemed to work again. The bomber stream sailed past the boxes and lost only two aircraft. at least one of which fell because of mechanical problems. At around 12:35 A.M., a Lancaster of 7 Squadron, piloted by Charles Loft- house, was over Berlin. He was one of the pathfinders, whose job it was to mark the city with flares. Then, very suddenly, the dark plane turned bright white. It had been coned. Lofthouse dived, hoping to shake the cone. It didn't work. He jettisoned his flares and tried again to shake the searchlight. Again, no luck. Then a "great bright 'whoosh' of tracer" stre