maged buildings, craters, and broken pipes. The one place he wasn't allowed to visit was an air-raid shelter. The signal brought eleven-year-old Horst Rübenkamp to the window. He lived in the west of the city, not far from the Krupp steelworks. He had viewed all previous raids as a game, and he found the lights, flak, and occasional explo- sions exciting. Tonight would be different. The sound of hundreds of bombers and hundreds of flak guns was deafening. Horst ran to his mother and they made for the house's cellar. The noise penetrated the walls. After ten minutes. everything fell silent. The next bomb was theirs. A massive explosion shook the cellar. The lights went out. Water pipes broke, and plaster came raining down Horst's mother grabbed his hand as she tried to climb the stairs to safety. They were gone. The explosion and ensuing fire had left only ashes. Horst's mother lifted him up, and then scrambled over the wall after him. When they came out into the street, houses were ablaze and bombs were falling. Dodging incendiaries and explosions, they struggled fifteen hundred feet to the nearest concrete, above-ground air-raid shelter. Horst picked up a stone 91 and hammered on the door. A Nazi party member opened it and ushered them inside. He told them to say nothing about what was going on outside, as it might create a panic. Covered in chalk from the cellar ceiling, they took their places and waited. Not far away, Paul left the school. One high explosive had hit its steps, smash- ing them and leaving a crater in its wake. Next to the school, another high explo- sive had destroyed a house, killing seventeen people. Across from the school, the Dome was burning. The minister tried to put out the fire, but the flames licked at his clothes, caught fire, and burned him to death. Paul climbed up to the church attic, where the fire extinguishers were kept on the assumption that the roof would burn first. He ran down to the cellar and ordered it cleared. Twenty-four c