ct from the Oil attack," he wrote, while offering a less definite input in time, is certain to be more far- reaching. It will lead directly to sure disaster for Germany. The Rail attack can lead to harassment only. In weighting these two, it appears that too great a price may be paid merely for a certainty of very little.18 As oil depended, like everything else, on transport, the two targets might be viewed as complementary. Knocking out both oil production and the trains that brought the men and equipment to repair the damage would be disastrous for Germany's war effort. Spaatz sketched out the target priorities for the two air forces. The Eighth would attack: · The Luftwaffe and ball bearings. · The nineteen rail targets in occupied countries already selected through the Transportation Plan. · The thirteen major synthetic plants. At the same time, the Fifteenth would target: · The Luftwaffe and ball bearings. · Rail transport in Romania and selected targets in southern France. · Synthetic oil targets in southern Germany. · Political targets in the Balkans.19 Imperial War Museum London Spaatz envisioned a two-part attack: first, a concentrated raid on Germany's main supply of crude and refined petroleum, which would cut production and force the Germans to use synthetic oil; and, second, concentrated air attacks on synthetic oil production that would, over several months, cripple German indus- trial production. By March 1944, Germany's main source of crude and refined petroleum was to be found in Romania, at the sprawling refineries of Ploesti. In 1943, they had supplied two million tons of oil. 20 Changing the mind of either man was not easy. The Supreme Commander remained convinced that the transportation plan would provide the greatest  FIRE AND FURY 176 | Germany's Achilles heel | 17 support for the invasion. Portal maintained that oil fell outside POINTBLANK, and in late March he sent out an official minute ruling Ploesti out as a target.21 Spaatz went ahead an