tly impossible to go where one wants to go and it is as frequently necessary to do something of value even though it is not always something near the head of the pri- ority list. And when he could implement it but chose not to, there might be tactical rea- sons for doing so: It is not tactically feasible to go on slamming at the same type of target day after day and night after night, without making the proposition of the defences unnecessarily simple. It is often necessary from time to time to hit the enemy where he least expects he is going to be hit, in order to make him spread his defences out and keep them spread. Given these constraints, the only certainty in bombing, Harris concluded, is that something is to be bombed. "The final type of target which is liable to questioning after the event," Harris wrote, "is the target which is attacked merely because it is the only thing open to attack in prevailing conditions. In Bomber Command we have always worked on the principle that bombing anything in Germany is better than bombing nothing." Harris was not one to let a charge go unchallenged, and he used the letter to respond to the question about Cologne, although Portal had not asked it. (a) Cologne was the best point at which the weather front gave reason- able possibility of our low ceiling bombers getting sufficiently above the elsewhere high cloud ceiling. (b) It was the nearest we could get to the Ruhr. (c) It was the furthest I proposed to send the force in . . . full moonlight. (d) As a most important communication centre and industrial area it was of direct value to the Army and generally in line with the Directive. 207 (e) It was big enough to be dealt with using sky mark technique [i.e., dropping flares to mark the target]. Sky marking requires a big, com- pact, and preferably isolated target. (f) It was already burning from previous attacks and two important satel- lite areas remained to be burned. There is something in continuity of attack, within limi