eed to be interviewed and who invited me to a July 2003 reunion dinner for 102 Squadron, Bomber Command; to Oktavia Christ of the Volksbund Deutsche Kriegsgräberfürsorge in Hamburg, who arranged the interviews that form the core of the first chapter; and to Hans Weppert of Würzburg, who allowed me to speak and solicit witnesses at one of his seniors association's meetings. Adrian Fort, author of the highly regarded biography of Cherwell, very kindly met me for coffee in Oxford, where we spoke about Cherwell's role in the air war. Thanks also go to Jack Pragnell who had me to his house for lunch, and for hours of fascinating conversation about his time in Bomber 289 Command. I also owe a debt to the current owner of Springfield, who very kindly showed me around the house. I owe a great debt to the archivists at the National Archives, Kew; the Royal Air Force Museum, London; the Bundesarchiv, Koblenz and Berlin; the Library of Congress, Washington, DC; and city archives in Hamburg, Lübeck, Würzburg, Cologne, and Berlin. My thanks also to the librarians and staff at Nuffield College, Oxford, and Christ Church, Oxford, for providing access to, respectively, the Cherwell and Portal papers. The head porter at Christ Church was kind enough to show me Portal's and Cherwell's rooms at my old college, and to my juvenile delight I learned that the room I had occupied as a research fellow had been Cherwell's drawing room. That day, Jonathan Wright (my former teacher and colleague) and Paul Kent met me to talk of Cherwell's time at Christ Church, and Mr. Kent sent me information afterwards. My thanks go to both of them. For research assistance, I am grateful to Guy Tourlamain, Jonas Nahm, André Ghione, Patricia Greve, Margaret Haderer, Farzin Yousefian, and Aleksander Jeremic. Dr. Janet Hyer and Alexander Jeremic read the entire manuscript, and I am immensely grateful for their many comments. In this vein, particular thanks go to Dr. Richard G. Davis, one of the world's greatest