boys, is one of the great tragedies of the war. Indeed, one oft-overlooked element of the bombing war is the extent to which both Allied aircrew and German civilians had much in common: during a raid, they were both in a desperate struggle for survival. Equally, however, the need to defeat Germany cannot provide a blanket justification for what in the end became a massacre. It cannot change the fact that area bombing was a moral and strategic failure, whether or not it was a war crime. We cannot shy away from this conclusion out of a fear of giving succour to the far right or of offend- ing Royal Air Force or Royal Canadian Air Force aircrew. On the contrary: the freedom to write and speak the truth is what the aircrew were fighting for.  288 Acknowledgements 1 Acknowledgements have many people to thank for their help in the writing of this book. My first 1 debt is to my agent, Andrew Lownie, for signing me on and for backing this book, and to my Toronto agent, John Pearce, for taking the book on and for pro- viding many invaluable comments along the way. Thanks also to the director of Westwood Creative Artists, Bruce Westwood, for taking great interest in the book My Doubleday editor, Martha Kanya-Forstner, has been the ideal critic and supporter. She read the manuscript with a keen eye, and with polite but unwa- vering determination encouraged me to keep to the story. I am immensely grateful to the dozens of individuals-German, American, Canadian, and British; soldier and civilian-whom I interviewed or who wrote to tell me of their experiences during the war. Inevitably, I could only include explicitly a fraction of these harrowing and often moving accounts, but all were immensely helpful to me. In this vein, I am particularly grateful to Sidney "Tom" Wingham, who agreed to be interviewed and who invited me to a July 2003 reunion dinner for 102 Squadron, Bomber Command; to Oktavia Christ of the Volksbund Deutsche Kriegsgräberfürsorge in Hamburg, who arranged the i