s led Wallis to the now-famous idea of a bouncing bomb. A round bomb that looked like a cement roller-technically, a mine-when dropped low would skip across the water and hit the side of the dam at the right speed and spot: 240 miles an hour and sixty feet above water level. The spinning motion of the bomb would cause it to roll down the side of the dam, exploding underwater like a depth charge. If the bomb created a hole, even a tiny one, in the dam, the force of the water would do the rest. When Harris first heard of the idea, he was scathing: "With some slight practical knowledge and many previous bitter experiences on similar lines I am prepared to bet that this is just about the maddest proposition as a weapon that we have yet come across."The bouncing bomb was a precision bombing proposal created by an inventor. In other words, it combined the two things that Harris hated most. Harris refused to meet with Wallis and was only talked into it by Ralph Cochrane (AOC 5 Bomber Group). When he was brought in to see Wal- lis in March, his first words to the scientist were: "My boys' lives are too pre- cious to be wasted on your crazy notions."3 Despite this inauspicious beginning. chemistry formed between the two men. They had more in common than either realized. As Harris's biographer put it, they both "mistrusted politicians, disliked senior civil servants and despised obstructionists; possessed determination and originality far beyond most of their contemporaries; and between them . had as much diplomacy as a circus prize fighter." Rather than follow his initial insult with a swift exit, Harris listened patiently to Wallis, watched the scientist's film and admitted that he had not been aware of all of the details. On March Is. Harris told Cochrane that he should form a special squadron and suggested Guy Gibson to command it. Gibson, a dashing young man with a lovely smile, was already known as a crack pilot who had flown a hundred missions over three bombing tours-