ot, it would weaken Germany to the point where an invasion was easier. Eaker, along with Arnold and Spaatz, was not yet sure of the best way to achieve this aim, but all three were from the start willing to accept bombing's role as complementary rather than decisive. Harris was not, and in this he was not alone. One of those impressed by city bombing was Churchill's scientific adviser, Lord Cherwell. Cherwell was coura- geous, wealthy, and-when he wanted to be-disarmingly charming. He was also vain, arrogant, and unforgiving to the point of being vengeful. He was born Frederick Lindemann in Baden-Baden in 1886 (of a German father who had  54 T FIRE AND FURY Burn, Germany, burn migrated to England in 1870), studied at Darmstadt, and took a Ph.D. from the University of Berlin. He always viewed his German birth and descent as handicap, and is said to have overcome it by demonstrating greater enthusiasts than anyone else for killing Germans. True or not, throughout the war he was the most consistent advocate, after Harris, of levelling Germany. When war broke out in 1914, Cherwell made several unsuccessful attempts to use his scientific background for the war effort before being offered a position at the Royal Aircraft Factory at Farnborough.25 From there, he was accepted into the Royal Flying Corps, where he developed a mathematical theory of air- craft spin recovery (at that time, it was thought that when an aircraft entered , spin, it was all over). He calculated that if the pilot let go of the controls rather than struggling against them, the plane would automatically come out of the spin. When he presented the findings, his superiors asked him how he could prove it. Cherwell took a plane up, deliberately put it into a spin, and let go of the controls. It worked, and the method is still in use.26 In 1919, Cherwell took up a chair in experimental philosophy and became director of the Clarendon library. He saw Nazi Germany for what it was ear- lier than most people in