, shot down between 70 and 170 out of 400 fighters. And though the ball bearings factory itself was hardly touched-many of the bombs hit the city, killing and maiming seven hundred people-the raid was unquestionably a success. In New York, reporter James B. Reston wrote, "The time of what was once called air-raids has passed. The Allied Army of the air has started a campaign of attrition against the Luft- waffe which must be recognized as one of the decisive military campaigns of the war. ... From now on the Allied leaders of this campaign will send their aerial artillery anywhere in Germany where the German fighters are made and to any point where German fighters will give battle."34 Harris had always counselled against hitting the same targets successively, as it gave the Germans a clear warning of what to expect. But, two nights later, the 100th Squadron was back, blazing exactly the same trail across Germany. At Drummer Lake, in northern Germany and the scene of the majority of the 100th's losses, the first wave of escort fighters, Thunderbolts, turned away. They should have been replaced immediately by Mustangs, but they weren't: the second wave of escorts was late. The Luftwaffe saw their chance and attacked German fighters flew en masse into the bomber formation. The leader of the bombing formation, the head of the 45th, became confused and lost, and missed the turn to Berlin. Major John M. Bennett, head of the battle-scarred 100th, moved his wing in front of the 45th and led the Eighth Air Force into Berlin." Galland was waiting for them there. He had deliberately saved up the bulk of his fighter forces for the Eighth's bombing run. As Bennett's and the other bombers 169 came over Berlin, they responded to Galland's tactics by bearing straight ahead, and the B-17s blasted through the fighters. As the bullets pelted them from the front, flak hit them from below. The airplanes, and men, shook. Hot shrapnel blasted through the bottoms of the planes, killing som