least thirty-five thousand of them. The raid on Dresden was quickly followed by attacks on other cities. On the night of February 14, Bomber Command attacked the centre of Chemnitz, near Dresden, with little success.29 The railway was unscathed. In two days, Bomber Command had flown 1522 sorties and dropped 5256 bombs on the centres of German cities.3ยบ On February 15, the Americans-diverted by bad weather from oil attacks on Leipzig-made a second, unsuccessful, raid on Dresden's mar- shalling yards. Two weeks later, Harris sent his bombers to Pforzheim. The attacks of February 24-25 destroyed 83 percent of the city's built-up area and killed 17,600 people-20 percent of the city's population. "The whole place," Harris bragged at the next air commanders conference, "had been burned out. This attack had been what was popularly known as a deliberate terror attack." Bomber Command, he continued, "has now destroyed 63 German towns in this fashion."31 A week later, on March 1, Harris sent 478 bombers to obliterate what was left of Mannheim.32 The next day, 858 aircraft hit Cologne. A "carpet of bombs" spread right across the city, "the end of Cologne."3 When the Ameri- cans took the cities four days later, they cleared more than four hundred bodies from the streets.34 After Berlin, just as the precision campaign that they had doggedly supported for years was on the threshold of success, the Americans succumbed to the self- fulfilling logic of terror bombing: if destruction fails to deliver victory, as it had in Berlin, its failure was answered with more destruction. Arnold wrote again to Spaatz and urged him to organize "widespread simultaneous attacks" by fleets of airplanes. Operation Clarion called for a "coordinated attack" against transportation targets by "all available American Air Forces."35 Their tar- get would not be Germany's rail nexuses or even large railway stations in major cities. Rather, it would be untouched transportation targets in "undefended or light