d by nothing, as the bombers flew to Bremen, Hamburg, or Berlin. Lübeckers-believing a story that had many analogues across Germany-told themselves that the city would not be bombed because Churchill's grandmother lived there.6 But on that night, the airplanes appeared and Lübeck was bombed in three waves. Pathfind- ers appeared first and marked the city with their gently descending lights. At II:29, the first wave of incendiary and 250-pound bombs hit the city, landing near the harbour in the south.7 "We couldn't believe it," wrote the members of Flak Group 161 later. "Many, probably most of us never thought the enemy would actually attack this city of architectural monuments from distant times ... but here it was, the attack, far larger than we had expected."8 Nearly twenty minutes later-at 11:48-a second and far more powerful wave of bombs hit the city. High explosives and incendiaries rained down on the area around the main station and the city's famous two-towered Dome. One hit a house on the cor- ner of Ritterstrasse and Gothlandstrasse,' outside the main aiming point, killing eleven members of a family who had gathered to celebrate a birthday. Only one son and his grandmother, who were not in the house, survived. Fires started in the Grosse Burgstrasse, in the southwestern corner of the old city.10 They quickly spread through the neighbourhood, surrounding St. Jacob's Church and the adjacent school." The flames continued to move, and the incen- diaries started hundreds of new fires that spread westward, consuming the Königstrasse and the Breite Strasse (which ran north-south, parallel to each other) along with the Kuhberg and the Johannisstrasse (which also stood paral- lel). They reached the Kohlmarkt and the adjacent Church of St. Mary almost exactly in the middle of the old city. As this was happening, bombs lit fires in and around the Aegidien church, to the southwest. Surrounding the church was the Kaufmannsviertel, the merchant's district, made up of ti