Allies themselves moved freely behind the front by day or night.6 Overall command of the strategic bombing war had been returned from Eisenhower to Spaatz and Harris on September 14. On that day, Portal and Arnold issued a new directive, which Bottomley passed on to the commander- in-chief on September 25. Compared with past directives, it was a model of clarity. It instructed the Allied Air Forces to make attacks on oil their first pri- ority, with transportation targets and tank and motor production as the second priority. After that, it listed German air force targets and support of land and naval action. Like all directives, it left open room for area attacks when these targets 201 could not be hit: "the bombing of important industrial areas when weather made other targets impractical." Who judged the weather and a raid's practi- cality? Harris and Spaatz. The directive effectively told the Americans to do what they had been doing, with the added benefit of satisfying Spaatz's long-held wish to rank oil above transportation-though Spaatz had by this point come to view the two as com- plementary. Both oil and transportation were precision targets, both required suc- cessive bombing raids to be decisively destroyed, and the destruction of both materially affected Germany's capacity to wage war. But there was a basic difference between the two. Oil refineries and synthetic oil plants were located outside the cities, in the countryside of Central and Eastern Europe. They were usually ideal precision targets; bombing destroyed them or it destroyed nothing. The situation for marshalling yards and railway stations was entirely different. Big rail yards were located in central urban districts, next to workers' housing. The train stations, or at least the main ones, were right in the centre of the cities. Destroying these targets inevitably meant destroying houses and killing workers. These risks to civilians were compounded by strategy and, that great wild card, worseni