s the great majority of their inhabitants (about one-third of the German population) would be turned out of house and home. Investigation seems to show that having one's house demolished is most damaging to morale. People seem to mind it more than having their friends or even relatives killed. At Hull signs of strain were evident though only one-tenth of the houses were demolished. On the above figures we should be able to do ten times as much harm to each of the 58 principal German towns. There seems to be little doubt that this would break the spirit of the people. Our calculation assumes, of course, that we really get one-half of our bombs into the built-up areas. On the other hand, no account is taken of the large promised American production (6,000 heavy bombers in the period in question). Nor has any regard been paid to the inevitable dam- age to factories, communications, etc., in these towns and the damage by fire, probably accentuated by the breakdown of public services.32 Burn, Germany, burn | 57 The scale of destruction promised captured Churchill's imagination. He forgot the discouraging words he had offered Portal back in September. Instead, he passed Cherwell's minute on to Portal and Sinclair with one sentence added: "What do you think of this?" Portal and Sinclair wrote back effusively. Lord Cherwell's calculations were "simple, clear, and convincing." Seeing the opportunity, they then argued that the "necessary scale of destruction of Germany" would only be achieved if further conditions were met. They tacked on new demands beyond more bombers: more squadrons, more resources for target finding, and authority to focus on bomb- ing Germany alone. Cherwell's letter swayed the prime minister, who had only months before come close to writing the campaign off. Throughout the war, Churchill's attitude to the bombers and bombing shifted in a way that frustrated the airmen then and confuses historians now. He would, as in his September 1941 note to Portal, d