y of preci- sion bombing by 1943.9 This is not true. The dambuster raids showed that Bomber Command was capable of the most impressive precision-to within a few inches. It was rather that precision bombing of this sort remained weather- dependent and exacted a heavy toll-up to 20 percent of a bombing force. Both factors meant that there could only be a limited number of such raids before there were no more bombers-or pilots-to carry out the bombing. The ques- tion for both the Americans and the British was thus: is it better to lose more pilots on a given raid but to bomb less overall? The Americans answered yes, accepting a casualty rate on a given raid of approximately double that of the British-10 percent-but bombing less. The second point concerns intention. Before 1945, Spaatz tried whenever possible to avoid killing German civilians; Harris killed them deliberately and with equanimity. Even on the worst winter days in 1943 and 1944, when the Americans "blind bombed" in the heaviest of clouds, they were trying to hit and destroy military targets. They just sometimes weren't that successful at it. Sometimes, but not always. After Harris's September 1944 obliteration raid on Darmstadt failed to reduce production (it was fully restored within a month), the Americans knocked the city's suburban industries out in December, with lit- tle loss of life or civilian property.10 For Harris, the whole point of bombing was to destroy cities, and technological developments were only useful insofar as they aided this eliminationist project. The history makes this clear. One study concludes that by 1945 the United States had "reverted from its selective bomb- ing doctrine to the Douhetian principles of mass attack and terror."" Yet, beyond the February 1945 raids, it does not specify any significant cities destroyed. The numbers speak for themselves. Looking at the whole war, one German study deliberately opts for a low estimate of German casualties: 400,000.12 Of these, it es