ly? 1889 Hitler is born Nietzsche goes mad 1918 Hitler weeps in an uncontrollable rage The Royal Air Force is formed The debate on the bombing war has carried on, with pauses, for decades, and it will continue. All authors would like to believe that their argument will be the last word on their topic of choice, but they know-or should know- that it won't be. As that debate rolls on, it is important to bear in mind that an evaluation of the effects and the morality of the Canadian, British, and Amer- ican bombing war can cast no aspersions on the bravery or sincerity of the young men who chose to serve in Bomber Command, still less on the memory of ten thousand Canadians who died over Europe. It is to their bravery and that of tens of thousands of others in the army and the navy that we owe our ability to debate these issues free from intellectual and political tyranny.  x 1 FIRE AND FURY These events provoked such strong feelings because the history of Bomber Command is Canadian history.' During the Second World War, forty thousand Canadians served in Bomber Command, making this country by far the second- largest contributor to the British bombing campaign. One-quarter of these Canadians, ten thousand young men, lost their lives. Throughout the war, Cana- dians permeated the Royal Air Force (RAF). They served as individual volunteers in RAF squadrons, from 1940 as distinct Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) squadrons serving in the RAF's five operational groups, and from 1943 as a dis- tinct operational group (6 Group) made up solely of RCAF squadrons and paid for by the Canadian government. By the end of the war, Canadians comprised some 25 percent of Bomber Command's operational aircrew. While Canadians were also found in other parts of the RAF, 80 percent of the fifty thousand RCAF graduates who served overseas were in Bomber Command. 1889 Hitler is born Nietzsche goes mad The controversy over the Canadian War Museum's decision-and, more importantly, the history beh