eriment in full- blown city bombing was over. n the first two weeks of March, Harris launched a series of raids under the I transportation plan, but he used the same method: destroy the city and with it, ideally, the railway station.' At the end of 1943, he had argued that "the destruction of villages or even of small towns would contribute nothing to ... destroying the whole organized system on which the German air effort depends."2 That was now forgotten. On March 5, 683 aircraft dropped almost 2000 tons on the centre of Chemnitz, devastating the old town and sur- rounding neighbourhoods. The fires, which raged for hours, engulfed the railway station, but the Americans had already destroyed it two days earlier. On March 7-8, Dessau was ravaged by bombs, creating fires that were visible one hundred miles away. Three days later, Harris returned to the Ruhr. On March II, more than one thousand aircraft bombed the centre of Essen, causing great damage to the marshalling yards and the Krupp works. The next after- noon, a slightly larger force wrecked Dortmund. Five days later, it was Würzburg's turn. On March 16, 1945, Herbert Oeschner, the illegitimate son of a working-class Würzburg mother, had snuck back to his city after being evacuated weeks ear- lier. He lived in Grombühl, a drab workers' suburb. His mother had many boyfriends, gave birth to two illegitimate children, and was rarely at home. His grandmother raised him and his one-year-old brother, Peter. On March 16, Her- bert was playing in his mother's tiny garden. 249  250 1 FIRE AND FURY A crescendo of destruction A mile to the south, in a far more affluent part of town, Heinrich Giesecke was in his parents' apartment near the city's famous Dome. Giesecke's father had done well under National Socialism and could afford a large apartment in a desirable central street. In 1938, he had stood at the flat's front windows and watched Nazi thugs throw Jews and their belongings from the house across the street. It wa