d have been the consummation of our three years' effort, and it would have been absolutely fatal for Germany. 25 American area bombing If Portal was not prepared to accept this, then he had, Harris said in the letter's last lines, only one option. "I . . . ask you to consider whether it is best for the prosecution of the war and the success of our arms, which alone matter, that I should remain in this situation." It was a defining moment in the bombing war. It was not the first time that Harris had threatened resignation. If Portal had called Harris's bluff, city bomb- ing might have ended or at least sharply reduced, and airplanes could have been redirected toward key oil and transportation targets. Tens of thousands of civil- ians would not have lost their lives, more than a dozen cities would have been spared, Germany might have capitulated earlier, and thousands of Allied lives might have been saved. Given Harris's record of disobeying orders and his inso- lence, there was every case for sacking him. Instead, Portal backed down. He wrote to Harris: "I willingly accept your assurance that you will continue to do your utmost to ensure the successful implementation of the policy laid down. I am very sorry that you do not believe in it, but it is no use my craving for what is evidently unattainable. We must wait until after the end of the war before we can know for certain who was right and until then I sincerely hope that you will continue in command of the [air] force."10 It is hard to imagine a more feeble letter from a superior to a subordinate officer." 0 n February 3, 1945, Lieutenant John Welch, a co-pilot with the 457th Bombardment Group, was over Berlin. His plane was one of a thousand bombers flying across the capital. His aiming point was Friedrichstrasse station, a few minutes from Berlin's famous boulevard, the Unter den Linden, and from the Brandenburg Gate and the Reichstag. When Welch's plane reached the target, his bombardier released his load of 50