tary effect was negligible, but it was pure terror bombing and thousands of Lon- doners were dying.4ยบ Pressure for retaliation was growing and Churchill wanted something done. Under Harris's plan, two thousand bombers-double that of the famous thousand-bomber raid two years earlier-would drop sixty-five hundred tons of bombs on Berlin. Portal supported the idea, as did Eisenhower. In a note to Churchill, Portal argued that, at the least, such a raid would "be a pretty good answer to the results achieved in the last few days by the 'flying bomb [the rock- ets]."41 At 1 A.M., Harris-with an eye to poor weather and Doolittle's reluctance to share his fighter escorts-cancelled the mission. Instead, the Eighth Air Force sent one thousand bombers over Berlin. One-third of them bombed industrial targets in the outskirts; the others bombed the city centre. On Saturday, July 1, Churchill was in a meeting with the Chiefs of Staff. Out of the blue, he came up with a new idea for seeing off the V-Is: Britain should "announce [its] intention of flattening out in turn the lesser German cities if the 'CROSSBOW' attack is continued."42 Such cities would be "small towns of 20,000 inhabitants or fewer, well known for historical or other associations, and not par- ticularly connected to the war effort."43 The idea was not entirely new-Anthony Eden, the foreign secretary, had suggested it back in 1943-but Churchill's inter- vention revived it.44 There were suddenly two plans on the table: one for flattening Berlin, the other for ignoring Berlin and flattening dozens of provincial cities. Churchill's Chief of Staff, General Hastings \ Ismay, threw his enthusiastic sup- port behind the second idea. Sir Douglass Evill (who succeeded Freeman as Vice- Chief of Air Staff) countered that the policy would be immensely costly: the obliteration of a single city would require up to seven hundred sorties, whereas Churchill and Ismay's plan assumed that only one hundred or so would be required. See