es attacked by angry civilians or the SS, the Wehrmacht (unless it arrived too late) protected them. The same was of course true on the other side. And, finally, when the Allied armies invaded Germany, they did not- as total war would predict-go from house to house spraying civilians with machine-gun fire. On the contrary, they took every reasonable effort to minimize civilian casualties. Had there been total war, none of this would have happened. And this means that the war did not-as some would have it-entirely erase the distinction between a soldier and a citizen (though it may have blurred it), mak- ing both targets for the bombing war. Moral clarity has two sides to it: it gives the Allied war aims moral purpose and it defines the limits within which those aims are pursued. Germany unilat- erally launched a war that brought untold death, destruction, and suffering to tens of millions of people around the globe. The defeat of Germany was both a geopolitical and a moral necessity, and the Allies were right to mobilize all of their resources in achieving this goal. It was inevitable that ordinary Germans would find themselves the victims of events. None of this, however, can justify the degree of death and destruction meted out by Harris and tolerated (if inter- mittently) by Churchill. Recognizing this fact in no way tarnishes the Allies' victory or the honour of the young men who did what they could to ensure it. Judging area bombing is not the same thing as judging the young aircrew who were serving their coun- 287 try and following orders. Those who suggest that these men should have refused to fly should be more hesitant about condemning from the security of peace those who made decisions in the chaos of war. The loss of some eighty thou- and of them, most still boys, is one of the great tragedies of the war. Indeed, one oft-overlooked element of the bombing war is the extent to which both Allied aircrew and German civilians had much in common: during a raid,