against Air Chief Marshall Sir Arthur Har- ris by night and Gen. [Ira] Eaker by day." The result was that massive numbers of fighters had been drawn off the Eastern Front. Of the 2750 fighters available to Germany, the RAF estimated 1 153 that 1900 were on the Western Front, 300 on the Mediterranean Front, and 550 on the Eastern Front. The consequences for Germany were disastrous: When it is realised that some 550 fighters, of which probably only 60% are serviceable, have to cover the entire Russian battle front of 600 miles, the extent of the enemy's shortage can be gauged. . . . The one thing on which the Germans are relying to stave off defeat is their fighter force, which, by night and day, is being whittled down by every conceivable means in our power.14 Harris was not briefed on the letter; he read it in the Telegraph itself. It made him furious. The article suggested that the targets of Britain's bombing cam- paign were industrial, that the most important of these targets was fighter pro- duction, and that the point in drawing off and destroying fighters was to help the Russians. He sat down and penned a response to the Air Ministry. In an October 25 letter, Harris urged the ministry's policy on press releases be urgently modified. He wrote that the Ministry had failed to convey the fact that "the position of Germany as a result of 8 months' intensive bombing and the advance of the Russian armies across the Dnieper is such that the possibility of her col- lapse at a very early date must be seriously envisaged." If Germany collapsed, the Air Ministry would have wholly failed to make clear Bomber Command's decisive role in it: The manner in which the aim and achievement of the combined U.S .- British Bomber Offensive have been presented both in the Press and public pronouncements by authoritative speakers in both Britain and the United States has encouraged the view that it is in the nature of an experiment or a side-show which is important but is not the major