f 1 to 20-were there to meet them.39 The air forces' support for ground troops was impressive, but their greatest contribution to Normandy occurred well before June 6, 1944. Over five months, they had destroyed the factories producing fighters, used decoys and attacks to draw out the German fighters, and shot them out of the sky in the hundreds. The transportation plan, despite Spaatz's skepticism, had also produced results. Bombing had almost entirely dismembered the rail network of northern Belgium and France, choking off the supply channels feeding the German army.40 Trucks that tried to move toward the front found gullies where bridges had been. Ger- man fighters that had hoped to land at little- or never-used bases in northern France found them ravaged by bombs. Any trucks or trains that managed to find a route to the front were blasted by Allied fighters. "The Allies have," the commander of the 2nd Panzer Division reported, "total air supremacy. They bomb and shoot at anything that moves, even single vehicles and persons. . . . The feeling of being powerless against the enemy's aircraft . . . has a paralyzing effect." 41 The morale that mattered in a totalitarian state-the morale of its mil- itary and political leaders, rather than its citizens-was being undermined,42 And it was being undermined by precision bombing. Bildarchiv Preussischer Kulturbesitz Churchill's role in the bombing campaign was controversial. He was an erratic supporter of area bombing, but distanced himself from it later in the war. Imperial War Museum London Harlo Taerum Collection - Nanton Lancaster Society Air Museum Sir Arthur Harris, Commander-in-Chief of Bomber Command (standing at left) listens to a report on the dambuster raids with Ralph Cochrane (on Harris's left), who formed the squadrons. To Cochrane's left is Harlo "Terry" Taerum, a Canadian navigator who was decorated for his role in the raids. Taerum was killed in a September 16, 1943, raid on the Dortmund-Ems Canal.  Nation