way embankment nearby, walked along Fichtestrasse and Kantestrasse, which lead south out of the city, finally finding a vineyard shed. They stayed there until the morning. 8 P.M., THE WEPPERTS' APARTMENT When the first alarm went off, Heinrich Weppert, his parents, and his great-aunt rushed to the cellar; their confidence in Würzburg's immortality had been destroyed by earlier raids. Heinrich's cousin was with them. She was from Nuremberg, and she mocked them for running to the cellar; compared to the bombing in Nuremberg, she said, the raids on Würzburg were nothing. She stayed upstairs, but changed her mind before the first bombs fell. In a scene that was repeated across the city, the first bombs knocked the cel- lar lights out. There were twenty people cowering in the cellar, and they pulled blankets over their heads for comfort and to shield themselves from falling dust. Heinrich climbed into his mother's arms and stayed there during the first wave of bombing. As it seemed to let up, his father left the cellar to see what had hap- pened. When he returned, he was ashen. The entire city, he said, was on fire, and there was no point in even trying to extinguish the flames. After hastily retrieving a few items from their apartment, he ordered the family to get out. Even his normally truculent cousin did not resist, and their neighbour followed them out. They arrived in the street relatively early, before the fires had reached their peak, and they ran down it, past the Gieseckes' house and toward City Hall. They turned to the Main River, but the narrow passage leading to the Old Main Bridge was by then blocked by flames. His father took them back toward the centre, but they were blocked by a great rush of people fleeing the city. They turned into the Augustinerstrasse, which led out of the city. Heinrich's father knew the cellars were linked through a series of passages that would be safer than the street. He was right: a short while later, the fires reached deadly t