" Then, without letting either man reply, he threw them out. "I have no time for you." The next day, Hitler summoned them back. His rage, if anything, was more out of control. He spoke quickly, his anger forcing him to stumble over his words. "I want no more planes produced at all. The fighter arm is to be dis- solved. Stop aircraft production. Stop it at once, understand? . . . Let all the workers produce antiaircraft guns. Use all the material for that too! Now that's an order. Send Sauer to headquarters immediately. . . . A program for flak pro- duction must be set up ... A program five times what we have now. . . . We'll shift hundreds of thousands of workers into flak production. Every day I read in the foreign press reports how dangerous flak is. They still have some respect  198 1 FIRE AND FURY for that, but none for our fighters."85 Galland tried to speak, but Hitler had them thrown out once again. The two were escorted from the room. They and Karl Otto Saur (head of the Armament Ministry's technical bureau, an intemperate bully known to assault his workers, and a close confidant of Speer) decided to ignore Hitler.86 The next day, Speer spoke with the Armaments staff: "We must maintain the production of fighter planes at a maximum." Three days later, Speer arranged, with Galland present, a meeting of air industry representatives and urged them on to higher productivity. "By sending the production of fighter aircraft soar- ing we can meet the greatest danger we face: the crushing of our armaments manufacture on the home front." 22 Harris's and Spaatz's orders It was a fight to the finish. Speer was in a last, desperate race to produce enough fighter planes to defend the Reich's oil supply well enough to keep Ger- many's war machine going. He would once again have help from the most unlikely of allies. 0 n September 11 and 12, 1944, Spaatz sent the Eighth Air Force on two day- time raids against oil plants. To their surprise, large numbers of Luftwaffe fighter