entage terms, but combined with the poor results, aircrew morale was slowly being chipped away. At the best of times, an air raid was a brutal experience. On one early 1941 raid, a pilot watched the head of an observer be sheared off by a cannon shell. The gunner climbed to the front of the plane and dragged the body back so that the pilot would not have to be behind a headless corpse all the way home, but it was too late; the pilot never flew again.16 On December 12, 1940, ten RAF aircraft set out for Mannheim. They bombed the centre of the city successfully and returned home. It was the first area raid of the war, directly ordered by Churchill as retaliation for Coventry. By then, Portal was no longer commander-in-chief of Bomber Command. He had been promoted to Chief of Air Staff on October 4, 1940. Sir Richard Peirse, an uncompromising advocate of precision bombing, replaced Portal as commander-in-chief. Throughout the autumn of 1940 and the spring of 1941, oil remained the first target when weather allowed, with German barges as the second (Bomber Command would destroy some 12 percent of the German fleet).  22 FIRE AND FURY The Blitz: Bombing civilians and destroying houses The RAF made a valiant effort, but poor precision meant that the Germans again hardly realized that oil was the intended target. As the bombing war progressed without producing results, Portal began to lose faith. He was by instinct a supporter of precision bombing. In 1940, be held the view "that bombers were best employed against target systems and pre- cise objectives."17 But he was nonetheless moving toward area bombing. In July. he made almost casual mention of the possibilities of attacking German morale At that time, the aircraft industry was the first target, oil the second. The diff- culty with both, Portal (then still commander-in-chief) wrote, is that both tar- gets were "isolated and in sparsely inhabited districts," meaning that "the very high percentage of bombers which inevita