ootnote in the bomber war; on that night alone, five other towns were bombed.9 The Night Raid Report devoted five lines to Würzburg's obliteration. It noted that the "intention was to complete the destruction of the built up area and associated industries and rail facilities," a task that was "practically completed."10 The report failed to mention that the Americans had already destroyed the railway on Feb- ruary 21, and that there were no industries of significance in the city. The day after the attack, Hans Heer learned that his mother and sister were safe. His aunt, however, was not: her two-storey house had collapsed over her cel- lar, and trapped her and everyone else inside. Across the city, the task of gath- ering the bodies began.  27 1 Doubts O n March 6, 1945, ten days before the destruction of Würzburg, Richard Rapier Stokes, a decorated First World War hero and devout Catholic, stood up in the House of Commons. He read from the Manchester Guardian: "Tens of thousands who lived in Dresden are now burned under its ruins. Even an attempt at identification of the victims is hopeless. What happened on that evening of February 15? There were 1,000,000 people in Dresden, including 600,000 bombed-out evacuees and refugees from the east. The raging fires which spread irresistibly in the narrow streets killed a great many from sheer lack of oxygen." Stokes went on to quote from the February 17 dispatch of Associated Press reporter Howard Cowan: "Allied Air Chiefs have made the long-awaited decision to adopt deliberate terror bombing of German population centres as a ruthless expedient to hasten Hitler's doom. More raids such as those carried recently by heavy bombers of the Anglo-American Air Forces on residential sections of Berlin, Dresden, Chemnitz and Cottbus are in store for the Germans for the avowed purpose of heaping more confusion on Nazi road and rail traf- fic and to sap German morale." Cowan's source was an "off-the-record" SHAEF press briefing in Pari