ghter forces."2 It was the clearest lesson of the second Schweinfurt raid. On the morning of October 15, as sixty American B-17s lay on German soil, Eaker penned a passionate letter to Arnold: This does not represent disaster; it does not indicate that the air battle has reached its climax. Our answer to this challenge [will be]: I. More fighter cover at longer range; 2. Multiple attacks by 7 or 8 combat wings of 54 bombs; 3. Greater emphasis on counter Air Force operations, striking all fields with medium and pressing destruction of aircraft factors and repair establishments with heavies; 4. Bomb through clouds when his fighters will often be fogbound.3 Urging Arnold to rush replacement aircraft, crews, and fighters, and to supply droppable tanks for fighters (allowing greater range), Eaker ended his letter on 161  FIRE AND FURY 162 1 Taking out the Luftwaffe a defiant note: "We must show the enemy we can replace our losses; he knows he cannot replace his. We must continue the battle with unrelenting fury. This we shall do." Spaatz had arrived back in the UK in December 1943. He had commanded the United States Eighth Air Force, but he took over the Americans' North African campaign in November 1942, before they began bombing Germany. He returned to England to assume full command over U.S. air forces in Europe and to prepare for the invasion of the Continent. Spaatz worked with Sir Arthur Ted- der, General Eisenhower's chief deputy at Supreme Headquarters Allied Expe- ditionary Force (SHAEF). Spaatz was given overall command of a new organization, the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe (USSTAF), which coordinated both the Eighth Air Force and the Fifteenth Air Force (U.S. heavy bombers based in Italy). The USSTAF was effectively the Eighth in new clothes, and Eighth Air Force Bomber Command was officially disbanded. Eaker, very much against his will, was pushed out and "promoted" to command Allied air operations in the Mediterranean. Major General James ("