ot be resumed for weeks. Daily output dropped by 1000 metric tons: from 5850 to 4820. It was a huge drop, but not a disastrous one. Germany's reserves could see the country through for another nineteen months.29 On May 13, the day after Spaatz's oil raid, ULTRA intercepted an order from Luftwaffe Operations Staff in Berlin. It called for the stripping of heavy and light anti-aircraft guns from the Eastern Front and from plants manufacturing fighters in Oschersleben, Leipzig-Erla, and Wiener Neustadt. They were to be sent to Zeitz, in eastern Germany, and Politz, near Stettin. Spaatz was ecstatic: the Germans obviously dreaded attacks on oil, even more so than on fighter pro- duction, and they were gathering their air force around oil targets. He had suc- cessfully predicted both. A week later, ULTRA intercepted a second order, this time to convert an even higher percentage of motor transport to power sup- plied by inefficient wood fuel generators.30 Oil attacks were working. Even Ted- der came around: "I guess we'll give the customer what he wants."31 As the second intercept arrived in London, Speer left Leuna after a week of fact-finding. On May 19, he flew to Obersalzberg, where he met Keitel and Hitler.32 Looking straight into Hitler's eyes, Speer said, "The enemy has struck us at our weakest points. If they persist at it this time, we will soon no longer have any fuel production worth mentioning." In a reference probably to Göring, he added, "Our one hope is that the other side has an air force of general staff as scatter-brained as ours!" Keitel, always the sycophant, tried to brush this aside He argued that the reserves would see Germany through, and he added a typi- cal National Socialist appeal to past glories. "How many difficult situations we have already survived!" Turning to Hitler, he said, "We shall survive this one mein Führer." This time Hitler did not allow himself to be taken in by cheap optimism and flattery. He arranged a meeting with Göring, Kei