in store for the Germans for the avowed purpose of heaping more confusion on Nazi road and rail traf- fic and to sap German morale." Cowan's source was an "off-the-record" SHAEF press briefing in Paris by C.M. Grierson, an RAF intelligence officer (a confir- mation, it seemed, of Spaatz's and Kuter's fears).1 Grierson described air force plans to bomb large population centres and, afterwards, to block relief supplies.2 Grierson's statement, Stokes continued, was widely broadcast in America and in Germany, but not in the United Kingdom. "Is terror bombing," Stokes demanded of the government, "now part of our policy? If so, why was this 259  FIRE AND FURY 260 1 declaration from S.H.A.E.F issued for publication and then suppressed? If it is not part of the policy, why was the statement handed out at all? And why is it that the British people are the only people who may not know what is done in their name? ... I think we shall live to rue the day we have done this and that .. . it will stand for all time as a blot upon our escutcheon."3 About this time, Violet Bonham-Carter, the daughter of First World War Prime Minister Asquith and graduate of a Dresden finishing school, marched up to 10 Downing Street and demanded to speak with Churchill. The young Churchill had been a Liberal Cabinet minister under her father. She rounded on the prime minister, who quietly took it in, for the bombing of Dresden.4 While the storm was brewing, Harris continued his work. In March 1945, the month of Würzburg's destruction, Harris dropped sixty-seven thousand tons of bombs on Germany. It was the largest monthly tonnage ever dropped on the country, and only slightly less than the total dropped between 1939 and 1941.5 Al of the cities listed in Harris's November I appeal to Portal had been heavily bombed and most thoroughly destroyed. In the last weeks of the war, Harris returned to the Ruhr. Essen was blasted for the last time and, on March 12. eleven thousand RAF bombers dropped five thou