d (one "master" and two "slave") sent signals that were picked up by equipment carried in the bombers. When the navigator's three signals were plotted, the result was a sort of a grid, and the position of the airplane within it could be estimated to a high degree of accuracy. For the first time in the bombing war, RAF aircrew had a precise measure of where they and their targets were. The only downside was time: the Germans would eventually figure out what the British were up to and jam it. The RAF gave it six months. Harris made his first move, without Gee, in an unusual precision raid on the Renault works at Billancourt, which produced trucks for the Wehrmacht. On the night of March 3, he sent in three waves of bombers. Tightly concentrated- 49  FIRE AND FURY Burn, Germany, burn 121 airplanes passed over the target in an hour-the first wave marked the target with flares, while the second and third blasted the target with high explosive (one thousand- and four thousand-pound "Cookies"). The factories suffered severe damage; only one aircraft was lost, though three hundred French people were killed.ª Harris then introduced Gee: in a series of raids on industrial targets in Duis burg, Cologne, and Essen, he instructed his crews to mark the targets with flare using Gee alone. When they did, it worked, though crews-unaccustomed to suspicious of the new technology-often tried to mark visually, with poor results. By the end of March, the technical pillars of Harris's strategy were being put in place. Gee would guide a first wave of airplanes to mark the target with flares. Subsequent waves of bombers would hit the target with high explosives (blowing off roofs and doing structural damage) and incendiaries would light the target on fire. With radar, markers, and concentrated bombings, Harris was ready to bring his war to Germany. The question that remained was one of targets. Harris avoided the major industrial cities of Germany: Düsseldorf, Essen, and Stuttgart. They wer