arfare (MEW) had come up with many "panaceas." The clamour continued into late 1944. As he wrote in the same November I letter, "during the last few weeks every panacea monger and 'me too' expert to many of whom we had already (we hoped) given the quietus in the past, has raised his head again. The Tir- pitz has gone within range and the Admiralty has resuscitated a U-boat threat. The ball-bearing experts have again become vocal . . . " Everything being said about oil had been said before, in 1940-1941. And where had that led? To high British casu- alties, plummeting pilot morale, and no obvious effect on Germany.  208 1 FIRE AND FURY Harris's and Spaatz's orders T The weather also did present a serious problem; any bombing, but above all precision bombing, required co-operative weather conditions. If the target was obscured by cloud, or if there was a storm over it, bombing was difficult, danger- ous, or both. Most importantly, Harris continued to believe in area bombing. His entire mission since 1942, if not earlier, was founded on this policy; he had publicly and repeatedly staked his reputation on it; and he had sent tens of thousands of young men to their death in executing it. It was hardly that surprising that he was unwilling, just as Germany finally seemed to be collapsing, to give up on it. The difficulty for Portal was that, while he recognized all of this, Harris was playing a double game. He was arguing at once that (a) he was bombing oil tar- gets when he could, (b) he mostly couldn't bomb oil targets, and (c) it wasn't worth bombing oil targets. If (a) and (b) were true, there was no need to add (c).19 There was also something patronizing in Harris's letter. It was as if he were writing to someone who knew nothing about bombing, rather than to his supe- rior and a man who had worked his way through the RAF hierarchy, much as Harris had, from its earliest days. Harris's last paragraph, on abandoning his task, was equally ambiguous. He seemed to be slid