forces, to which the general chaos in Germany, the past strategical bombing of Germany very heavily contributed.18 Whether he recognized it or not, Harris's argument had shifted importantly over the last two years. He had once claimed that bombing cities would avoid the need for the invasion. Now that it had occurred, he claimed to be responsi- ble for its success. Harris then went on to argue that he was implementing the September 14 directive: In his paragraph 9, the Deputy Supreme Commander makes certain rec- ommendations as to the best targets to be attacked. Apart from diversions forced upon us for tactical bombing, bombing coast guns, invested ports, the Tirpitz, submarine bases etc. the recommendations in that paragraph are precisely what we have been doing and are doing. . .. The main con- centration [of our bombing] has been against the Ruhr whenever condi- tions made this economical. The targets selected have been oil targets, rail centres, canal systems and the major centres of population. . . . Area bombing must enter into any scheme, because in bad weather we have to use sky markers, we must have a large target within Oboe or G.H. range and we necessarily in those conditions paint with a large brush. When he was not implementing the directive, or appeared not to be, it was for reasons beyond his control:  FIRE AND FURY 206 | Harris's and Spaatz's orders 1 There is . .. an aspect of bombing which it is always difficult to impress or to keep impressed upon those outside the immediate Command, and that is the decisive effect of weather and tactical factors on what can be done at any given moment. Taking into account the low ceiling of our bombers and the high ceilings of many cloud formations, particularly those associated with high icing indices it is frequently impossible to go where one wants to go and it is as frequently necessary to do something of value even though it is not always something near the head of the pri- ority list. And when he could imp