ba-Wetzler Report (also known as the Auschwitz Protocols) told the world of the camp and its locations, of crowded trains arriving at precise times, of the separation of prisoners, and of ovens: At present there are four crematoria in operation at Birkenau, two large ones, I and II, and two smaller ones III and IV.Those of type I and II con- sist of 3 parties, i.e: (A) the furnace room; (B) the large halls; and (C) the gas chamber. A huge chimney rises from the furnace room around which are grouped nine furnaces, each having four openings. Each opening can take three normal corpses at once and after an hour and a half the bodies  184 1 FIRE AND FURY Oil and baby killing | 185 are completely burned. This corresponds to a daily capacity of about 2,000 bodies. ... The gassing takes place as follows: the victims are brought into hall (B), where they are told to undress. To complete the fiction that they are going to bathe, each person receives a towel and a small piece of soap issued by two men in white coats. Then they are crowded into the gas cham- ber (C) in such numbers that there is, of course, only standing room. To compress this crowd into the narrow space, shots are often fired to [force those at the front] to huddle still closer together. Then, there is a short pause, presumably to allow the room temperature to rise to a certain level, after which the SS men with gas masks climb on the roof, open the traps, and shake down a preparation in powder form out of tins cans. [It is marked] "CYKLON. FOR USE AGAINST VERMIN." The report was sent to Rudolf Kastner, leader of the Jewish Agency Rescue Committee in Hungary. Rather than disseminating the information to that coun- try's Jews, Kastner showed the report to Adolf Eichmann, head of the Jewish sec- tion of the SS. Eichmann feigned an interest in negotiating to keep the report secret. Kastner, however, didn't have the only copy. Another copy, together with a fur- ther eyewitness report on deportations from Hungary (