to the waiting fighters, which continued their attack all the way to the border. Despite all of the downed bombers on German soil, Speer could not share in Hitler's joy. He asked for a short recess in the conference and left the room to telephone Schweinfurt. He couldn't get through. Communications with all fac- tories were down. Finally, by going through the police, he managed to get on the line one factory foreman who sketched a picture for Speer: a direct hit had shat- tered machinery, lit the oil baths, and sent fires racing through the buildings. His factory was hardly unique. Armaments production was down 67 percent, almost twice that of the earlier raid.5° In the darkest hours after the raid, as the Amer- icans were reeling from the loss of sixty bombers, Eaker had bravely told Arnold that "we are convinced that when the totals are struck yesterday's losses will be far outweighed by the value of the enemy materiel destroyed."51 He was right. Imperial War Museum London Speer adapted to the crisis quickly. He appointed one of his closest associates, Phillip Kessler (a general manager from industry), as special commissioner for ball bearings production. They managed to import small quantities of ball bearings from Sweden and Switzerland. Factories were ordered to substitute slide bearings for ball bearings. Speer was able to keep production going, though at a sharply reduced level, until the Schweinfurt factories were repaired. His actions were not, however, decisive. "What really saved us," said Speer, "was the fact that from this time on the enemy to our astonishment once again ceased his attacks on the ball-bearing industry."52  136 | FIRE AND FURY 17 | The Battle of Berlin All of Speer's efforts had in fact been picked up by Air Staff in the UK, who urged Harris to attack Schweinfurt again.53 Harris of course had no intention of hitting Schweinfurt, but the Americans-mindful of their losses-also paused to regroup. The losses they sustained on the first Schwe