argets near Cologne that were ignored in favour of the city itself. On Cologne as a rail centre: true, but oil was more important than trans- port (here Portal was himself going against Strategic Directive No. 2, which placed transportation first and oil second). On sky-marking: it had been suc- cessfully done in the Ruhr. On repeatedly bombing the same targets, or conti- nuity: true, but it was more important to bomb oil targets continually. On distance: the Ruhr is no further from England than Cologne. Finally, on the difficulty of reaching the south of Germany: the Ruhr is not in southern Ger- many. In short, all eight reasons offered by Harris failed to stand up to scrutiny. Portal knew his commander-in-chief well; there was little point in directly provoking him. Instead, he offered Harris an out, another reason to favour area bombing over precision bombing. Perhaps, he said, the commander-in-chief had been thinking of the greater publicity benefits that came from destroyed cities. Despite this, he continued, the issues at stake were too important. "In view of the vital importance of getting the German war finished as soon as possible and of the disastrous delay that would result from any substantial recovery of the 211 German oil position, I make no apology for inflicting this letter upon you, and I trust that you will accept it as a sincere attempt to discharge a not altogether pleasant duty." Portal paused. He had not enjoyed writing the letter, and looked with still less enthusiasm on the prospect of sending it on to Harris. He decided to leave it for a day. That night, the skies were clear over central Germany, over the damaged but functioning factories in the Ruhr valley and over the benzol plants at Gelsenkirchen. As ever, the air-raid sirens went off and the flak guns began shooting. Gelsenkirchen was not, however, the target. Seven hundred and fifty RAF aircraft flew just south of it and bombed the centre of Bochum. More than 4000 buildings were destro