s). The young boys, usually fifteen and rarely older than seventeen, were drafted from schools and lived in barracks together. There, they waited for the alarms that called them-before the rest of the city was warned-to the flak guns or searchlights. Werner Schenk, who was a Luftwaffe helper from January 1944 to February 1945, recalled the cadet's typically cheeky Berlin humour. "Heil Hitler!" one boy would say; "Heil du ihn doch!" (you heal him-playing on the double meaning of Heil) another would reply.6 During one raid on Berlin, anti-aircraft fire brought down an Allied bomber. The Luftwaffe helpers saw the parachute coming down and made for it en masse. The airman, who had no doubt heard the stories of airmen being lynched by the SS or furious citizens, could not but have feared for his life. But this time he was descended upon by a horde of grin- ning boys who could not contain their joy at having arrested an enemy com- batant. They were finally real soldiers.7 At 12:40 A.M., as planes came in over Berlin, Hans-Werner Mihan was man- ning a machine gun, but the height of the planes meant that he was a spectator rather than a participant in the battle. He watched the searchlights twist in every direction, trying to cone one of the incoming bombers. Wave after wave of them crossed the city. All around him was the constant sound of blazing flak guns. The ground shook as bombs exploded. Fires and exploding airplanes made the sky shine blood red. Deadly flak splinters hit the ground around him; he was more afraid of them than of the bombs. "It was," he wrote after the war, "a symphony of hell." German fighters swept in on the bombers. They were above, below, and around the British, trying to identify individual planes. One was Peter Spoden, flying a Messerschmitt II0: Imperial War Museum London I had never seen so many aircraft at one time before. There must have been thirty or forty of them. Some were night fighters, but the majority were four-engine bombers. Most o