deration.23 THAA TOYTAHTITT Harris's letter, as ever a model of clear thought and frankness, left the Ministry with little choice. It could no longer pretend that there was no difference of prin- ciple between it and Harris. Instead, it had to tell Harris directly whether his own view of the bombing war accorded with official policy as dictated by the POINT- BLANK directive and interpreted by the Ministry. In its reply, the Ministry noted that there could be no question that the "indirect and inevitable consequences" of attacks on "factories, industrial premises, public utilities and means of communi- cation" would be "heavy casualties to the population of the city and destruction of buildings and monuments which are not themselves universally recognised as  160 1 FIRE AND FURY legitimate objects of attack." But this, the ministry argued, was as far as it went: What is in dispute is whether, in order to maintain the morale of Bomber Command air crews and avoid unfair comparison with the methods adopted by the U.S.A.A.F. in their daylight attacks, it is necessary to include in the definition of avowed targets for direct attack civilian workers and the whole of a city including dwelling places and cultural and religious monuments. The Council cannot agree that it is. The issue for the Council, though it did not use the word, was a moral one. There was a difference between trying to minimize civilian casualties but caus- ing them anyway and deliberately trying to maximize those casualties: The effect may be the same but the emphasis placed on the motive is pro- foundly important. War itself is regrettable. So too are almost all the consequences of war and the conscience of all humanitarian people, and not merely of a neg- ligible minority, would be shocked if such a misdescription were applied to the objects of our attacks as to lend colour to the German description of them as "terror" raids. The Council had no moral objections to area bombing as such: "[We] have no co