s role in the war. This too is a mistake, as area bombing was only part of what Bomber Command did. Throughout the war, it also devoted substantial resources to mine-laying and to strategic attacks on ships, harbours, trans- portation, and oil targets. In 1942, the year of the Rostock, Lübeck, and Cologne raids, some 50 percent of Bomber Command's efforts went into naval targets.36 Some of this precision bombing led to significant and morale-boosting preci- sion attacks-the maiming of the Scharnhorst and Bneisenau battleships, and of course the dambuster raids-and at the end of the war the attacks on oil did much to undermine the Nazi regime. It is unquestionably the case that with- out these attacks, and above all without the late 1944 attacks on oil, the war would have lasted longer than it did and still more people would have died. The problem is that all of these attacks were undertaken only reluctantly, with less force, and less often than they could have been. This last claim might raise some eyebrows. Harris claimed, as have his supporters, that he hit oil whenever he could. The difficulty for Portal in 1944-1945 is that Bomber Command was attacking oil targets, and-when they did-generally with impressive results. Throughout 1944 and 1945, Bomber Command dropped many tons of bombs on oil targets: four thousand in October 1944, fifteen thousand in November, six thousand in December, ten thousand in January 1945, sixteen thousand in February, twenty-one thousand in March, and six thousand in April.37 The question was whether they couldn't do more. The Chiefs of Staff thought so. After the war, a "Technical Sub-Committee on Axis Oil" concluded that Harris might have bombed oil on seven additional nights and three days in the last months of 1944.38 This report refers to ten additional attacks. The RAF might also have accompanied the Americans on their bombing raids or followed up on them. This would have sharply increased the number of RAF bombs falling on oil ta