of it. The destruction of Dresden was a window onto the broader area bombing campaign. It brought home to people in a way that dozens of euphemism-ridden official reports could not, what the RAF had been doing to Germany since Hamburg and particularly since January 1945. It was a raid like any other, not a "raid too far," and for this reason it was the beginning of the end of Harris.  FIRE AND FURY 262 1 Harris's angry reply eventually harmed him more than Churchill, but in the short term it did its job. Churchill withdrew the memo and issued a more ano- dyne version on April 1: It seems to me that the moment has come when the question of the so called "area bombing" of German cities should be reviewed from the point of view of our own interests. If we come into control of an entirely ruined land, there will be a great shortage of accommodation for our- selves and our Allies; and we shall be unable to get housing materials out of Germany for our own needs. . . . We must see to it that our attacks do not do more to harm ourselves in the long run than they do to the enemy's immediate war effort. Pray let me have your views. 28 | As the last bombs fell Ten days later, Harris was at the SHAEF conference. There, he proposed another raid, this time on Potsdam. The seat of Frederick the Great and home of some of the finest architecture in Germany had made it to that point in the war largely untouched. Under Harris's plan, bombing would destroy the city's rail facilities and military barracks. Tedder thought there wasn't much point; they weren't important enough to justify even a precision raid. What's more, Soviet High Command, which was closing in on Berlin, might have a view on the matter. Tedder told Harris to clear it with the Chief of Air Staff. On April 12, Spaatz and Bottomley, after consulting Tedder, issued Strategic Directive No. 4, the final one of the war. It placed aid to the land campaign at the top, followed by oil, enemy communications, the Luftwaffe, and U