hom was Arnold. "When I became impatient, intolerant, and would rant around, fully intending to tear the War and Navy Departments to pieces." Arnold wrote, "Bob Lovett would know exactly how to handle me. He would say, with a quiet smile, 'Hap, you're wonderful! I wish I had your pep and vital- ity. Now ... let's get down and be practical' And I would come to earth with a bang."4 In 1941, Lovett produced a plan for reorganizing the Air Corps and giving it more autonomy. Roosevelt accepted it. The Army Air Corps was replaced by the Army Air Forces. A new Chief of the Army Forces (who was also Army Deputy Chief of Staff for Air) controlled the entire organization. With the support of General George Marshall (Chief of Staff of the United States Army, the pro- fessional head of the U.S. Army), the position went to Arnold. Marshall wrote later: "I tried to give Arnold all the power I could. I tried to make him as nearly as I could Chief of Staff of the Air without any restraint."s The Air Staff was made up of old Maxwell Field lecturers: Kenneth Walker Haywood Hansell, and Laurence Kuter. They produced a document known as AWPD-I, named after the Air Staff's Air War Plans Division. The plan envisioned four roles for the Air Forces in the coming war: supporting the defensive strategy in the Pacific during the initial phases of war; waging an unlimited strategic offensive against Germany as soon as possible; preparing for an invasion of the European continent; and preparing the invasion of Japan by waging an unlimited strategic air offensive against its homeland. Although a more measured document than the one produced earlier by Britain's Directorate of Plans, it was still beholden to the bombers' dream. "If the air offensive is successful," AWPD-1 read, "a land offensive may not be necessary."6 Working long hours, Hansell, Walker, and Kuter rehearsed the document with each other until they knew it by heart.7 The three men then presented it to Marshall, Stimson, and Hopkins