ichaelis shelter, Otto saw hundreds of people seeking refuge; many were wounded and dying. When he could not find his par- ents there, he made his way back to the Grossneumarkt. He looked up at one of the many burning buildings. An old woman was calling for help at the third. floor window of a half-wooden house. Her room was on fire. Otto and others ran for a ladder that would reach the third floor. Several men try to climb it, but the heat kept them from making it beyond the second floor. The woman looked down at them with wild, desperate eyes. The fire climbed up her body and she fell back into the room. Another Hamburger was returning to his city as a soldier: Herbert Heinicke was making his way back by train from East Prussia. He disembarked at unscathed Bergedorf and caught a slow-moving lorry into Hamburg. Along the way, they stopped a boy of about twelve, carrying a rucksack, to see if he needed help. Herbert then recognized what was sticking out of the rucksack: a head. The boy said it belonged to his brother. Although the raid was at best a modest success, Hamburg would burn for days. Fifteen minutes after the first bombs hit, the telephone link between the area's fire station and the central station was knocked out, and the bulk of Ham- burg's firemen responded to calls from the southeast of the city, which was suf- fering only relatively mild effects of scattered bombing.5 Wandsbek's beleaguered firemen had no backup, and their call for help only reached those working in the east hours later. At their peak, the fires created a wall between the Reeperbahn and Altona station, a distance of more than one mile.6 Before they died down. the fires had a circumference of sixteen miles, and fifty-four miles of streets in western Hamburg were in flames.7 In the city centre, the Rathaus had been hit, and St. Nicholas Church was burning. The house in which Johannes Brahms was born, in the Speickstrasse, was rubble. Twenty high explosives had hit the Hagenbeck zoo, an