francophile city of Düsseldorf. Then he stopped. He turned to his senior air staff officer, his face still expressionless, and said, "The Thou- sand Plan. Tonight."17 His finger rested on Cologne.  8 1 Cologne May 30, 8 P.M., Leeming TJ ear the bleak north Yorkshire town of Leeming, the crew of 10 Squadron gathered for their briefing. The ritual was the same throughout the war. The men would take their seats, and the briefing officer would tell them whether there was to be a raid. If no, they would slip off to the local pub for a night's entertainment. If yes, they would learn the city, the target, and have an hour to prepare themselves for takeoff. At 8 P.M. on May 30, the chatter in the room died down as Air Vice-Marshal Roderick Carr stepped up to the front. He began with a formula designed to convey drama and singleness of purpose: "Gentlemen, the target for tonight is . . . COLOGNE." The room erupted in a cheer. The men were not itching to destroy Cologne, but rather relieved that the target was not something further away and more dangerous. Such as Berlin. Carr held up a hand to silence the men and resumed his speech. "Tonight, gentlemen, the raid is no ordinary one. We shall be bombing with one thousand aircraft!" The airmen could not believe it. Some slammed their desks; others whistled and shouted, "Bloody hell!"1 Still others stared in silence. "Cologne," Carr continued, "is a highly industrialized centre; it has light and heavy engi- neering, factories making guns, tanks, vehicles for export to the Russian front. It is also an important transportation junction. Rail lines link it with Hanover, Berlin, Paris, and Vienna; trains ship troops, goods, and war materials. Finally, Cologne has a marshalling yard and factories at Ehrenfeld, Kalk, and Mulheim on the east of the river." 67  68 1 FIRE AND FURY Some of the men wondered which of these would be the target. I he engineering works? The train station' The factories across the river from the centre of Colog