es to industry in the rest of the Reich of the numerous products of the Ruhr, ranging from coal to sin- gle items, were bottled up in the Ruhr."44 During 1945, the U.S. Eighth Air Force dropped 50 percent of its bombs on transportation targets; the figure for the RAF was 13 percent.45 There continues to be debate about whether attacks on oil or transportation did more to undermine the German economy; there can be no debate that these precision targets were far more important than cities. And then there was the Luftwaffe, which the Americans alone destroyed. Had they not done so, no bombing war of any sort would have been possible. The particular genius of the American strategy was combining offence and defence into a single, mutually supportive strategy. The British had viewed the two as separate and competing.46 Harris sought throughout the war complete independence for Bomber Command and often expressed frustration at the con- straints placed on him and his Command. Fighter Command and Bomber Com- mand remained separate organizations, and they were jealous of each other's prestige and power. Harris was in many ways an impressive commander, almost a great one. He was decisive and tenacious, and generated complete loyalty from his men. He was one of them. He was a product of Bomber Command, defended it uncompro- misingly, and gave the world the impression that more than anything else he loved his men. They affectionately referred to him as "Butcher" Harris, because he killed them-not the Germans-in the hundreds. Harris equally affection- ately called them "my lags" (criminals). The men loved him as much as he loved them. He accomplished this while doing nothing to court popularity. Sidney Thomas ("Tom") Wingham, wing commander with 102 Squadron, recalled a rare visit by Harris. The Polish contingent exploded in applause, table banging, and cheers when they saw Harris. The commander-in-chief did not smile; he looked directly at them and, saying nothing, nodded sharpl