emanded, following that period.55 Although Harris often complained that he faced constant interference, he enjoyed an inordinate amount of autonomy. Subject to loose and malleable offi- cial instructions, he chose in most cases what to bomb and how to bomb it. The Air Ministry would not know a target until a few hours before it was attacked and he was no better at keeping his American allies informed in advance either.56 This sovereignty flowed in part from the nature of the RAF command structure. As Tedder put it in a 1931 RAF Staff College lecture, "In war, owing  284 | FIRE AND FURY Conclusion 1 to the need for rapid decision to meet rapidly changing conditions, it is impor- tant to relieve the Commander as much as possible-to leave him free to devote himself entirely to purely operational matters."s7 By contrast, the Chief of Air Staff-Portal's job-was weak and ambiguous. "The main argument against the Chief of Staff," Tedder wrote, "is that he is apt either to be a post office, a bottleneck which will only serve to slow up the working of the staff machinery or else to become the power behind the throne-a second, but shadow com- mander with all the power and without the responsibility."58 The same was true in the United States. Throughout the war, Arnold, with his usual lack of tact. urged Spaatz to be more bloodthirsty. In August 1944, he accused Doolittle of being "afraid of the Hun"; a few months later, he implied that Spaatz and his men lacked "a desire to kill Germans."59 Arnold could put immense pressure on Spaatz, and there were times-such as over Berlin in February 1945-that the commander relented. But it was Spaatz who took the ultimate decisions. After Casablanca, the directives made city bombing the lowest priority (though they did allow it); Harris made it the first priority. POINTBLANK had left the door open to destroying cities, mainly to appease Harris, but the cities he selected for destruction had-almost brazenly-nothing to do with POINT- BLANK.