"panacea." Naturally while you hold this view you will be unable to put your heart into the attack of oil. Your letter gave me the impression that while you have somewhat reluctantly agreed to attack 229 Politz and Leuna when occasion offers, you feel that this is all you should be asked to contribute towards the attack of the all-important Central German plants. I must say I should have hoped that you would on the con- trary be seeking opportunities to attack all or any of them whenever there is a chance of doing so, in order that the R.A.F. might play as large a part as possible in what is by far the most immediately profitable policy we have undertaken in this war. The particular concern, even obsession, with cities and the related dismissal of all precision targets became a self-fulfilling policy. Harris did not believe in precision targets, attacked them half-heartedly, and then took the mixed results flowing from his less-than-total effort as evidence of the target's tactical irrele- vance. "In your last paragraph," Portal wrote, you again cast doubt on past estimates by the Ministry of Economic War- fare and by implication the whole principle of attacking a particular tar- get system. You throw doubt also upon the soundness of our oil policy. If the attack of a particular target system is to be successful, it must be carried out as rapidly as possible and with the object of immobilising as many plants as possible in the system at the same time. Clearly we cannot expect to get very far if only half the plants are out of action at any one time. If we had tried harder in our attack on ball-bearings I have little doubt that full effects forecast by M.E.W. would have been achieved. I am glad to say that we have shown much more determination in the attack of oil, but if you allow your obvious doubts in this direction to influence your conduct of operations I very much fear that the prize may yet slip through our fingers. Moreover, it is difficult for me to feel tha