gainst bombing forced a diversion of resources from the rest of Germany's war effort: By 1944, some two million soldiers and civilians were engaged in ground anti-aircraft defence. This was more than the total employed in the whole of the aircraft industry. A large quantity of war material was produced specifically for defence against bombing. Speer estimated that 30 per cent of total gun output and 20 per cent of heavy ammunition in 1944 was intended for anti-aircraft defences. Some 50 per cent of electro-technical production and 33 per cent of the optical industry was devoted to radar and signals equipment for anti-aircraft installations, starving the front of essential communications resources. In addition, material had to be diverted from new capital investments to satisfy the demands for repairs to damaged factories and communications.25 These secondary effects were not unknown to the bombers at the time; indeed, British propaganda often emphasized them, as did Harris himself after the war.26 The "manpower" transfer is sometimes exaggerated: many of those manning the flak and searchlights were teenagers or women, who were of ques- tionable use at the front (though that did not stop Hitler from sending 200,000 youngsters there).27 There can be no doubt, though, that the task of defending 1 27 Germany required massive amounts of resources that could not by definition be used elsewhere. How important was this transfer? It clearly did not put a halt to German industrial production, which increased right up to September 1944, when it began to fall off sharply. As this fall coincided with the possibly more important loss of resources in liberated territories, it is hard to quantify bombing's precise con- tribution. But German industrial production might well have been higher still without the transfer. The president of Focke-Wulfe, the aircraft manufacturer, thought the transfers might have had some effect but were not "in any sense decisive."28 Richard Overy, who po