him directly about the Allies' policy on bombing civilians. In his reply, Bottomley stated that "there is no indication [in the directive] of any deliberate attack upon the civilian population as such. It would be quite wrong to say that destruction of civilian lives is an accepted and intended aim of our bombing policy; nor is the aim of the destruction of German cities as such unless those cities have an impor- tant part of the military, industrial or economic system of the enemy."19 Over the next three weeks, the Air Ministry produced multiple drafts of a response to Harris. On December 15, it went out under Street's signature. The letter made several attempts to minimize the differences between the Ministry and Harris. On the question of the armies,' navies,' and Soviets' contributions, the Minister argued that it was obliged to exercise great discretion in drawing comparisons between the importance of land and air operations. Whatever high hopes [the Coun- cil] may entertain for the results of the combined bomber offensive, the fact is that the British and United States Governments have made plans for major land operations on the Continent at a comparatively early date. In framing their publicity policy, the Council cannot ignore this basic concept of Allied strategy. Nor can they ignore the vast significance of the Russian land offensive which jointly with the bomber offensive is placing Germany under a strain that may at any time prove fatal. Subject only to these considerations, the Council will continue to stress in their publicity the critical importance of the bomber offensive and the outstanding achievement of air power in creating the conditions of victory. But, in the end, the response had to address directly Harris's claim that the bomber offensive was aimed at "the destruction of German cities, the killing of German workers. . . . " "The Council," Street wrote, recognise, of course, that night attacks directed against the German war economy involve t