s major's insignia and place it in his pocket. He became one of the regular pilots and immediately won their respect. On September 15, he shot down his first German airplane. Eleven days later, a daring dogfight earned him the Distinguished Service Cross and made the New York Times. The headline read, FLYING OFFICED SHOOTS DOWN THREE PLANES-TWO GERMAN AND HIS OWN. When his wife, Ruth saw the headline, she exclaimed, "That has to be Tooey!" Spaatz's determination to gun down the enemy had led him to neglect his fuel. He ran out of petrol and crashed in no man's land. Luckily, the French got to him before the Germans did While Spaatz was flying across enemy lines, the third in the air force trio Ira Eaker-was an infantry officer at Fort Bliss, Texas. In November 1917, Eaker saw an airplane try without success to clear Mt. Franklin after takeoff. When the plane returned, it landed closest to Eaker, who ran to help. He had never seen an airplane engine before, but climbed on and saw a loose spark plug lead. "Maybe this is your trouble," Eaker remarked. "Let's find out," the pilot responded. He showed Eaker how to turn the propeller, and got back into the cockpit. The engine sprang back to life. "You know so much about engine motors," the pilot replied, "that you ought to come to the aviation section of the Signals Corps." The pilot was a recruiter. "Fill out this form and send it in," he replied, "and "How do I do it?" Eaker asked. you'll probably get a call." In October 1918, after flight training in Austin and San Antonio, Eaker was transferred to Rockwell Field, where Arnold and Spaatz appointed him post adjutant.7 Eaker was the son of struggling Texan sharecroppers. He was born in Field Creek, Texas, on April 13, 1896. While Spaatz and Arnold attended West Point, Eaker's only education was at the undistinguished Southeastern Normal School in Durham, North Carolina. What he lacked in education he did not make up for in physical appearance: Arnold was towering and han