e force. As they did so, a chain reaction began: the intense heat led the fires to rise quickly, leaving a gas bubble below. Cold air then rushed in, mixing with the gases and setting the "bubble" alight. As the fires burned, more oxygen was sucked in and the process repeated itself. The inferno became larger and hotter, peaking at more than 1000 degrees Celsius and climbing four miles into the sky. The fire sucked all of the oxygen out of the cellars. Those in them gasped, put their faces to the ground, choked, and died. Then their bodies were incinerated. On the streets, people were met with a scene of utter chaos. The howling winds were deafening and tore through the streets with a force that ripped stone tiles, doors, and windows from the buildings and carried debris through the air, which then crushed anyone in its path. Mothers struggling against the wind felt their babies torn from their arms. Trees three feet thick were uprooted. Death had a random, godless quality. Some people burst into flames, while those a few feet away from them were spared. The inferno raged for five hours. At its peak, 133 miles of houses were on fire. The great city of Hamburg was dying. At 2:25 A.M., an hour after the bombing began, the senior officer of Hamburg's air defences jotted down a novel word in his logbook: Feuersturm.1 5 A.M., BERLINER TOR The bunker was still. The minutes ticked slowly by. The bombing had stopped, but Elfriede and Ernst-Günther had no idea of what was going on outside. The air grew worse, and people fell silent. In the early hours of the morning- Elfriede cannot remember when exactly-someone swung the bunker's steel door open, probably hoping to let in fresh air. Instead, people from outside poured in. They were refugees from the firestorm; most were burned and some were naked. There was almost no fat left on their bodies, only burn wounds. Their tongues stuck out and hung down toward their necks. They lay where they fell and died. Rather than fresh air,