anet Hyer and Alexander Jeremic read the entire manuscript, and I am immensely grateful for their many comments. In this vein, particular thanks go to Dr. Richard G. Davis, one of the world's greatest experts on the history of air power, for reading and commenting on the manuscript. Many other people have taken time to discuss the arguments put forward in this book: Robert Falkner, Simon Green, Atina Grossmann, Jeffrey Kopstein, Michael Bodemann, Timothy Garton Ash, Desmond King, Rainer Ohliger, Clif- ford Orwin, Derek Penslar, Rebecca Wittman, Peter Pulzer, and Robert Austin. Margaret MacMillan very kindly read and commented on the proposal for the book, and met with me several times to discuss its content. Particular thanks also go to Timothy Cashion, who gave up hours of his time during his stay in Toronto to hear about the book's fitful progression and who, very much in character, made trenchant comments. I am very grateful to him. Finally, my thanks go to my wife, Katja, for putting up with my monster of a personality when the writing was not going well (it generally wasn't) and for putting up with endless lectures on the history of bombing. Five years after this book began, I have failed to convince her of the arguments advanced here, but as gratitude for hearing me out, and for so much more, I dedicate this book to her.  290 Notes 1 Notes 1 David Bashow, No Prouder Place: Canadians and the Bomber Command Experience 1939-1945 (St. Catharines, ON: Vanwell Publishing Ltd., 2005). Preface Chapter 1: The day Hamburg died 1 M. Gretzschel (2003). "Hamburg im Feuersturm." Hamburger Abendblatt. Ham- burg: 1-2, 2. 2 Quoted in Martin Middlebrook, The Battle of Hamburg (London: Cassell & Co., 2002), 275-276. Chapter 2: The Blitz: Bombing civilians and destroying houses 1 Story and quotation from Philip Ziegler, London at War 1939-1945 (Toronto: Alfred A. Knopf, 1995), 113. 2 Stories from Ziegler, London at War, 113-117. 3 Richard Overy, The Battle of Britain (London: Pen