1:30 A.M., the fires jumped across to the Dome. Firefighters did not have the blaze under control until 10 A.M. the next day. By that time, two hundred acres of the old town had been demolished. All of the churches were shells. The Kohlmarkt was flattened. More than 320 people were dead, 130 seriously injured, and 15,000 homeless. Bombing destroyed 1062 houses and 21 public buildings.14 Twenty-five industrial concerns were hit, three significantly: a butcher was destroyed, Drägerwerk (which made breathing equip- ment for U-boats) lost 30 percent of its power supply, and an armaments fac- tory was seriously damaged.15 The harbour suffered only light damage. At 10:30 A.M., the Dome's northern tower collapsed; four hours later, the southern tower met the same fate. Losses among the RAF were tolerable: twelve bombers did not come back, and only one seemed to have been shot down over Lübeck. Although Lübeck's historic centre had been gutted, the effect of the raid on industrial production was minimal. The city was operating at 80 to 90 percent within days. The Heinkel factory, which suffered during the raid, recovered within weeks.16 There was no evidence of the widespread panic, fear, and demor- alization promised by Portal and Harris. Instead, newspaper reports spoke of the "heroes" that were the flak operators,17 of "Lübeck's heart" that was "tougher than English bombs,"18 and of the help that poured in from neighbouring cities and beyond.19 The dead were declared "soldiers" who fell for a Germany that would never forget them.20 Above all, the city would recover from the "great 1 53 crime" committed against it by the "British murderers."21 The rhetoric was no different than that heard in London during the Blitz, as was the effect on morale. "It made us," wrote Lübecker Günther Becker, "harder and more resilient, and we believed even more in Germany's ultimate victory."22 For all the official bravado, the Germans feared another attack: not on the city, but on the harbo