1933, the optimism and morality were in place, but the technology wasn't At least, the lecturers at the Air Corps Tactical School thought it wasn't. In fact in 1931, Carl L. Norden, a Dutch inventor who had emigrated to the United States in 1904, had developed an idea to help naval aircraft bomb with greater precision. Resembling an oversized camera, the bombsight allowed aircrew to input airspeed and altitude on the bombing run. The bombsight would calcu- late the trajectory of the bomb and the moment when it should be released The bombsight was originally designed for purely defensive purposes, and the Navy ordered almost a hundred thousand of them to protect the U.S. coastline. The faculty at Maxwell Field didn't hear about this until 1935, but when they did, they knew they had the equipment they needed. By 1935, what would become the United States Air Force had three of the most talented men in the history of aviation-Arnold, Spaatz, and Eaker; it had the abstract creativity and diligent research of George and his colleagues at Maxwell Field; and it had the technology it believed it needed to translate the theory of precision bombing into a reality. It lacked one thing, however: an airplane. 5 1 Building the mighty Eighth 0 n September 12, 1938, President Roosevelt and his adviser and New Deal architect, Harry Hopkins, were in a car in Rochester, Minnesota, where the president's son was undergoing surgery. The radio was on, and they were listening to Hitler's speech at a huge Nazi rally in Nuremberg. The German dictator ranted and threatened Czechoslovakia with invasion if it did not submit to his demands. When it ended, Roosevelt snapped off the radio and turned to Hop- kins. He told him to look immediately for new aircraft factory sites on the west coast. Roosevelt "was sure then," Hopkins wrote, "that we were going to get into war, and he believed that air power would win it."1 The U.S. Congress did not agree and would not provide the funds. With- out them, o