. Despite the demotion and more provincial focus of his work, Arnold was ecstatic. He was away from the desk and commanding troops. The transfer was more fateful than he could have recognized. Arnold had two people to help him in San Diego. The first was Major Carl Spaatz, who was assigned to Arnold as his executive officer. The second was Ist Lt. Ira C. Eaker, who served as their adjutant. The three men would have a defining influ- ence on the development of the U.S. Air Force. Spaatz's background was similar to Arnold's. His upbringing was rural-he was born in Boyertown, Pennsylvania, on June 28, 1891-and his father was a member of the provincial liberal professions (he owned a family newspaper). Spaatz was of German descent: his grandfather immigrated from Germany and the newspaper, the Boyerton Democrat, was originally published in German, the language his grandmother spoke until the end of her life.6 He attended West Point and ended up with a class standing of 57-three above Arnold. His "con- duct" ranking was much worse: 95. He excelled at wit, along with bridge, poker, and the guitar. West Point failed to bequeath him with a love of learning, but it did equip him with things he would carry for the rest of his life: a nickname ("Tooey," because of his resemblance to upper classman Francis J. Toohey), a love of flying, and a reputation for honesty. With less fuss than Arnold, Spaatz went from West Point into the infantry, and from there he moved into his chosen branch: Signal Corps Aviation. Spaatz  FIRE AND FURY 36 1 The Americans could have chosen the safety of a desk, but he insisted on fighting at the front In September 1918, he reported for flying duty at the 2nd Pursuit Group, which had entered combat five weeks earlier. One of his first acts was to remove his major's insignia and place it in his pocket. He became one of the regular pilots and immediately won their respect. On September 15, he shot down his first German airplane. Eleven days later, a dari