the table; and South Africa, the three clerks' chairs. India and Pakistan gave the entrance doors. Over the next decade, other archi- tectural wonders-Westminster Abbey, the Inns of Court, and the Temple Church-were restored to their former glory. The Queen's Hall-home of the Proms-was never rebuilt. The story was a less happy one for many London neighbourhoods. The plan- ning mania of the postwar years led local councils to flatten whole neighbour- hoods and replace them with soulless public housing. Vast swathes of Elephant and Castle, Southwark, and other working-class neighbourhoods were blighted by cheap concrete tower blocks. The story was similar outside London. Coventry was rebuilt along modernist lines. Today, its most beautiful structure is probably the burnt-out cathedral, left untouched as a memorial to the war. In Birmingham, the result was worse still: the old core, with its solid public architecture, was torn out and replaced with freeways, tunnels, and towers. For all of the destruction and all of the mistakes, England was too old and the bombing too limited for the character of the country to be radically changed. London is much more like its pre-war self than Berlin is, and the list of beautiful towns in England is long. Like Germany, however, the most 267 untouched architecture is to be found outside the cities, in the villages left alone by both bombers and planners. For Germany, the task of rebuilding was mammoth, almost overwhelming. Many people thought the country could never recover. Allied bombing had killed almost 600,000 people.8 Sixty cities were destroyed and another hundred were damaged. Before the war, Germany had dozens of Europe's finest cities; today, it has a handful. Well over a thousand churches and museums burned to the ground. The medieval centres of Frankfurt, Ulm, Aachen, Würzburg, Cologne, and Nuremberg were simply wiped off the face of the earth. A mil- lennium of Europe's finest architecture and culture were gone. Twenty m