most important of them was oil. After oil, the committee rec- ommended attacks on tank factories, on Berlin (to disrupt troop flows), and on German reinforcements moving from Italy or Hungary. It also recommended attacking sea mining operations in the Baltic. The second report-following the THUNDERCLAP proposals from the previous summer-looked exclu- sively at Berlin. It argued that attacks on Berlin should in no way interfere with oil or tank targets, and that destroying the regime would neither break Germany's 1 241 will to resist nor lead to the downfall of the regime. Still, the massive bombing of the capital, as eastern Germany's main transportation hub and the home of millions of refugees, "would be bound to create great confusion, interfere with the orderly movement of troops to the front, and hamper the German military and administrative machine."" Anyone who has worked in a large, complex organization will have noticed a curious tendency on the part of its officials to reinvent the wheel: ideas that were tried and failed in the past return. When they do, younger people who did not hear the original arguments or view the consequences of the decisions, or older people who did but forgot them, seize on these ideas and put them into practice. The "morale" argument was-by 1945 !- tried, tested, and found to be thoroughly wanting. Yet, here it was again, repackaged only slightly as "confu- sion." As often occurs in area bombing debates, other arguments were thrown in to provide further justifications. The 6th SS Panzer division had, it was wrongly believed, left Belgium for the Eastern Front and would be passing through Berlin. Destroying the city would also demonstrate to the Soviets an American and British desire to help them, thus improving the Western Allies' hand at the upcoming Yalta conference.12 Finally, though no one said it, bombing Berlin seemed-as it had almost from the start of the war-the right thing to do. The next day, the Air Staff presented thei