adrons. To Cochrane's left is Harlo "Terry" Taerum, a Canadian navigator who was decorated for his role in the raids. Taerum was killed in a September 16, 1943, raid on the Dortmund-Ems Canal.  National Archives National Museum of the United States Air Force/National Archives The crew of the "Question Mark." At left are Carl Spaatz and Ira Eaker. US National Museum of the United States Air Force/U.S. National Archives Imperial War Museum London Sir Charles Portal, Chief of Air Staff for most of the war. Curtis LeMay, viewed as one of the most brutal American airmen, confessed a deep concern for the fate of civilians killed by bombing. A symbol of London's resistance: St. Paul's Cathedral rises from the smoke at the height of the blitz. As Arthur Harris viewed the scene, he remarked, "They are sowing the wind." German bombers hit a school in January 1943, killing thirty-eight children and six teachers. Imperial War Museum London National Archives Recalled too late: German bombers lay waste to Rotterdam on May 14, 1940.  Private Collection Frucht Gemüse & Steinkohlen. L. Stoppel Transport en. Effekten, Hamburg before the firestorm: A typical house on Ernst-Günther Haberland's street. Top: Working-class Hamburg: Hammerbrook after the firestorm. Most of the forty-thousand-plus people who died during the raids lived in or near this part of the city. Private Collection Left: Old Hamburg: Across Germany, ancient, narrow streets were ideal fire starters. After the firestorm, Haberland's street was sealed off. Sperrgebiet Eeterlen uut mit Jarıfinister polizeilider Gothenstrasse Denkmalschutzamt Hamburg Right: A cellar in Hamburg: The majority of those who lost their lives during the firestorm died in their own basements. Private Collection Archiv Michael Foedrowitz  An old woman stands before the piled up bodies of children in Brunswick. Bundesarchiv Koblenz Bildarchiv Preussischer Kulturbesitz Angry German civilians threaten a downed American airman: Wehrmacht soldiers woul