s above a German city in one night and to attack it with the greatest concentration of air power in the his- tory of the world.9 The plan was bold, and mad. There was no chance that the Air Ministry would support it; as Harris was conceiving the plan, they were grumbling about the rate at which he was going through bombs. So, he went above their heads. He called Portal and put the idea to him. Portal loved it, and then called Churchill. On Sunday, May 24, Harris visited Churchill at Chequers, and the two spoke about the broad details of the raid over whisky and soda until 3 A.M. The idea appealed squarely to the prime minis- ter's flair for the dramatic. He agreed to a loss of one hundred bombers, or a 10 percent casualty rate.1ยบ Harris drove the ten minutes between Chequers and Springfield humming contentedly. With Portal and Churchill on board, Harris assigned the job of finding a thousand aircraft to his deputy, Robert Saundby. Saundby had just over 800 air- planes at his disposal: 485 in Bomber Command's four operation Groups (Nos. 1, 3, 4, and 5) and 330 in its two training groups (91 and 92)." Coastal Command-then in the middle of the Battle of the Atlantic-first offered 250 aircraft, but then balked at the gimmicky nature of the whole idea.12 Saundby convinced Flying Training Command to provide another 21 clapped-out air- planes, but that still left him just under 200 short. Harris took the brave and foolhardy decision to use crews who had not been fully trained, and by mid-May Bomber Command had 1046 airplanes ready. As RAF airman Jack Pragnell remarked sixty years later, "They got everything that would move into the sky." The next question was which city. The obvious choice, Berlin, was too far away and too heavily defended. The next most obvious choice was Hamburg, Germany's second-largest city and Europe's largest port. What was more, the Elbe provided a user-friendly map leading right into the heart of the Hanseatic capital. On May 27, the day originally