ded loudly to take bets that the invasion would come before June 15.25 It was not an auspicious start, but Spaatz made good by having Miller arrested and confined to his quarters. Spaatz then vented his anger over Tedder's decision to grant V-1 rocket sites priority. If they worried the British so much, the RAF should be sent to destroy them. The case was clear and Eisen- hower agreed. Spaatz then used the chance to reopen the oil debate. He argued that two recent raids on transportation targets at Berlin and Kassel had cost the USSTAR only fifteen bombers between them. While a great relief, it meant that the trans- portation attacks were not bringing out the Luftwaffe. Oil attacks, Spaatz argued, would. Eisenhower would not be swayed. He repeated his arguments against moving from transportation to oil. But then he relented. No one knows exactly what Spaatz said to change Eisenhower's mind-the two men made a point of leaving no official record-but he probably threatened resignation. Spaatz was permitted any two days before the invasion to hit oil. Then it was back to transportation. Spaatz was ready to go, but the weather was not. It was not until May 12 that the clouds had cleared, and then only over England and Germany (Ploesti remained covered in clouds). Synthetic oil plants in eastern Germany would have to be the target. That day, 15 combat wings-886 bombers and 735 escorting fighters- took off from English bases and streaked across Germany. Their targets were synthetic oil plants at Zwickau, Merseburg-Leuna, Brux, Lützendorf, Bohlen, and Zeitz. They flew across the English Channel toward Frankfurt am Main, where the bulk of the force banked northeast toward Zwickau. German radar picked up the bombing formation as it approached the Dutch coast. Galland, who had deliberately preserved his fighters as Speer tried fran- tically to rebuild, quickly guessed where the bombers were headed. He sent up four hundred fighters to attack.26 At Frankfurt, a mass of German fi