and that high- explosive bombs were accurately aimed at the fires. There can be little doubt that substantial damage was done.1 Imperial war Museum London The reports rarely described the destruction of cities, and never the killing of civilians. Only two reports, over the last three years of the war, could be con- strued as anything close to an accurate picture of area bombing. In August 1942, Sinclair, the British Secretary of State for War, gave a speech at Swansea, the Welsh port city that had suffered so much during the Blitz. In a speech rallying the beleaguered citizens, he informed them that: 147  148 | FIRE AND FURY What the British knew 1 we intended to press home our attacks on Germany ruthlessly. . . . The destruction which Bomber Command has wrought in Germany and in German-occupied territory in recent months has been terrible. . . . Bomber Command has destroyed between a quarter and a third of the whole of Cologne. ... The effect of Bomber Command's mighty raids are well exemplified in this extract from the diary of a German soldier killed far from home on one of Hitler's many battle-fronts. "The last mail made an overwhelming impression. On everybody's lips are the words Cologne and Essen. Relatives wrote terrible things. Max was informed that life had come off the rails and people simply could not recover after this dread- ful disaster."2 In a similar vein, the Times' aeronautical correspondent provided a report on the extent of bomb damage in Germany on the first day of 1943. He had been briefed or given information by Harris or someone close to Harris, as he meas- ured bomb damage with a technique favoured by the commander-in-chief: acres destroyed. "The damage caused by the Luftwaffe in Britain during 1940 and 1941," the correspondent wrote, and that caused by the R.A.F. in Germany during 1942 make an interest- ing comparison. The City of London contained less than 120 acres of devastation. In Bomber Command's big raid on Cologne more than 600 acr