ck-on effects  FIRE AND FURY 204 Harris's and Spaatz's orders | 205 for the oil offensive: they destroyed rail lines, trains, and trucks and interfered with Speer's race to repair the oil damage. The cumulative effects of the oil and transportation campaigns were spec- tacular. The production of aviation fuel temporarily halted. German oil pro- duction had halved over the summer, and the campaign had important secondary effects. The production of synthetic nitrogen (used for explosives) fell 63 per- cent; synthetic methanol (used for more advanced explosives) fell 40 percent; and synthetic rubber fell 65 percent. Harris, too, hit oil targets. In September, fourteen RAF raids were city raids, but eight targeted oil. When he did hit oil-for instance, at Dortmund on Sep- tember 12 or at Kaiserslautern on September 27-28-the results were impres- sive. The larger size of British bombs meant that a single British raid was worth more than an American raid. Bomber Command played a role in the oil cam- paign; it simply could have done more, perhaps much more. During October, only one-twelfth of RAF bombs hit oil targets, and there was only one signifi- cant transportation raid-on October 5, on marshalling yards at Saarbrücken. None of this is remarkable: Harris made no secret of his contempt for oil and his support for bombing cities. And this left Portal in a dilemma. Harris was immensely popular with the British public, and the Air Ministry had spent the last two years making "Bomber Harris" the public face of the RAF. But his obsession with bombing cities was standing in the way of the thorough execution of his orders. Not one for confrontation, Por- tal began by trying to reason with Harris. On October 28, Portal and Spaatz agreed to Strategic Directive No. 2, which placed transportation again at the top, followed by oil, making those the only two target systems (except when specific requests were made by the other forces). The directive left in the "important industrial