types, early set- backs in the war quickly convinced the British that precision daylight bombing couldn't be done; the Americans, in the face of similar losses, insisted that it could. As a plaque on Arnold's desk read, The difficult we do today. The impossible takes a little longer. Added to these beliefs was a moral concern. Commentators have tended to downplay it, insisting that the Americans mainly viewed bombing civilians as pointless. They largely did. As one general put it in 1944, "There was a memorandum on 29 October which said that no German cities would be bombed as secondary targets unless they had military targets adjacent. We said we would never bomb a German city. We will bomb a military target within the bounds of a German city, but not a German city. That is largely because of the fact that the Eighth Air Force does not believe that the morale of Germany is vulnerable to a decisive degree. ... [Hitler] has made the morale of the German civil population highly invulnerable to either [Allied] propaganda or morale attacks." Otherwise, there would have long been a rebellion against Hitler: "Never before in the history of man has a nation been subject to any pounding like the Germans have."17  FIRE AND FURY 40 1 Strategy explains much of American opposition, but not all of it. The Amer- icans also viewed city bombing as wrong-at least over Europe. "The Tactical School," Hansell later wrote, "opposed the concept which was generally described as an attack on enemy morale. The idea of killing thousands of men women, and children was basically repugnant to American mores."18 Daylight precision bombing was a perfect synthesis of American attributes: a belief in the importance of morality in politics, optimism, and a commitment to techno- logical pioneering.19 In 1933, the optimism and morality were in place, but the technology wasn't At least, the lecturers at the Air Corps Tactical School thought it wasn't. In fact in 1931, Carl L. Norden, a Dutch inventor w