cription were applied to the objects of our attacks as to lend colour to the German description of them as "terror" raids. The Council had no moral objections to area bombing as such: "[We] have no compunction whatever in publicly justifying the adoption of area bombing as a stern necessity of war involving though it must as an indirect but inevitable con- sequence heavy casualties to the civil population whoever they may be."The point of area bombing, however, had to be to destroy industry, not to kill civilians: "[We] are unable to agree that it is necessary to this justification to imply that a deliber- ate attempt is made to take the lives of German civilian workers."24 The distinction might seem like hairsplitting, but it was not. Under the Min- istry's understanding, area bombing was justified so long as it was the only or the best way to destroy industry, as well as much else. Under Harris, area bomb- ing was justified whether it damaged industry or not: it was more effective to destroy cities and the people in them, regardless of any concomitant damage to industry. This fundamental difference of interpretation would grow more important as the war continued, and it set the stage for a final battle between Harris and his direct superior, Charles Portal. 19 1 Taking out the Luftwaffe Tn early 1944, General Arnold sent a memo to Carl Spaatz. It instructed him to "seek out and destroy the German Air Force in the air and on the ground. The defensive concept of our fighter command and air defense units must be changed to the offensive."1 Arnold was preaching to the converted. "Destruction of the Luftwaffe," Anderson noted after the war, "was priority number one. [The entire] war was hinged-even strategically-to a successful defeat of the German Air Force, the German fighter forces."2 It was the clearest lesson of the second Schweinfurt raid. On the morning of October 15, as sixty American B-17s lay on German soil, Eaker penned a passionate letter to Arnold: This do