med at "the destruction of German cities, the killing of German workers. . . . " "The Council," Street wrote, recognise, of course, that night attacks directed against the German war economy involve the virtual destruction of those German cities which are essential to the enemy's war effort and that such destruction entails heavy casualties to the civil population and disruption of the organised life of the community . . . but your directive neither requires nor enjoins direct attack on German civilians as such. 157 Street denied that the Ministry was concealing "from the public the immense devastation that is being wrought to German industrial cities . . . Every one knows that, in attacking the sources of Germany's war potential, Bomber Com- mand is bound to destroy large areas of German cities." This "widespread dev- astation," was, however, "not an end in itself but the inevitable accompaniment of an all-out attack on the enemy's capacity to end war." To say any more than this, Street concluded, would be politically unwise. "It is," he wrote, desirable to present the bomber offensive in such a light as to provoke the minimum of public controversy and so far as possible to avoid conflict with religious and humanitarian opinion. Any public protest, whether rea- sonable or unreasonable, against the bomber offensive could not but ham- per the Government in the execution of their policy and might affect the morale of the aircrews themselves. The Council are therefore unwilling to change the emphasis of their publicity. They do not, however, wish to imply that the objects of your Command should be represented as confined to the bombing of specific factory premises.20 A devious character would have interpreted this wink-and-nod as an open invitation to carry on, which it probably was. But Harris was not devious. As he wrote a week later, the Ministry's answers to his questions were, "in spite of [my] most careful examination ... ambiguous." With regard to the Soviets an