r. Eisenhower, Tedder, Leigh-Mallory, and Zuckerman supported the plan; the prime minister, the bulk of the War Cabinet, the War Office, the Air Ministry, Bomber Command, and the USSTAF opposed it.4 Added to this mix was an institutional debate. Tedder was given the job of reconciling differences between Eisenhower, who wanted total control, and Por- tal, who wanted autonomy for RAF Coastal, Fighter, and Bomber Command. Tedder-who saw air power as complementary to the Army and Navy-was able by April to get all parties to agree to a compromise.5 Eisenhower would have overall direction of the strategic air forces for a limited period, only until September 1944. Throughout February and March, the debate over transportation versus oil raged. Tedder's support for transportation was matched by his suspicion of oil, as he had been "led up the garden path before." He doubted that refineries could be knocked out and that any damage that was inflicted would be answered by aggressive German conservation. Spaatz countered that attacks on northern France would not bring the Luftwaffe up into the air, and that the inevitable civilian casualties would destroy French goodwill. As the argument rolled on, Eisenhower grew increasingly irritated. In late March, he threatened resignation: "I am going to take drastic action and inform the Combined Chiefs of Staff that unless the matter is settled at once I will request relief from this command."6 At a March 25 meeting, Spaatz, Tedder, Eisenhower, Harris, and Leigh-Mallory, along with representatives from the War Office, Air Ministry, and Joint Intelligence Committee, met to have it out. Spaatz and Eaker had already spent the morning lobbying Eisenhower, but the general would not show his hand.7 173 When the meeting started, Tedder was in the chair-a crucial advantage. He secured general agreement that the Luftwaffe, including ball bearings production, remained the highest priority, and that the air forces would only target oil or com- mu