, struggling against the G-force, grabbed the escape hatch's latch and wrenched it open. Still hanging on, he reached back and got hold of Alan. He pulled him toward the hatch, let himself fall behind him, and pushed him out with his feet. As he did he said, "I'll follow you." Alan came out of the plane and almost immediately crashed into a dense forest; Kevin never got out. Alan saw the fires burst up as the plane exploded three or four hundred yards away. Kevin was a twenty-one-year old Australian with a brother, Keith, a year younger than him and also in Bomber Command. They were the only sons of a Brisbane couple. A year after Kevin died, Keith's plane went missing in operations. ONE AND A HALF HOURS EARLIER There were only a few Luftwaffe fighters placed across the Kammhuber Line as the RAF bombing stream approached. They knew, as did Stade, that Window made their radar useless, so they simply waited. A few pilots tried to attack the bombing stream without radar, hoping to identify the bombers visually. One may have managed to take down a Halifax. The others simply waited as the bomber stream flew past. As was their order, they hung back and made no effort to pursue. They knew that something was waiting for the bombers in Berlin. Over Berlin, hundreds of fighters, including all of the crack crews that had previously been assigned to boxes along the Kammhuber Line, were circling. They had no radar and no contact with ground control. Their only help from below was an agreement from the local flak command to restrict the height of the flak to about twelve thousand feet, so the fighters could circle safely above it, and the support of two hundred searchlights lighting up the Berlin sky. 141 The searchlights were operated by Luftwaffenhelfer (literally, air force helpers). The young boys, usually fifteen and rarely older than seventeen, were drafted from schools and lived in barracks together. There, they waited for the alarms that called them-before the rest of the