were soon confirmed. The hours were, in his words, appalling. He arrived at the office at 9 A.M. every morning and rarely returned before midnight. Often he would have to work until three or four in the morning. Sometimes he didn't go home at all. After three or four weeks without a break, he would be given forty-eight hours to recover. And then the whole thing would start again. On one of those many late nights, December 29, 1940, Harris was at a desk when he heard a great roar. He left his office and climbed up to the Air Ministry's  30 1 FIRE AND FURY Bomber Harris takes over roof to see what was happening. London was ablaze. The Luftwaffe had launched its massive incendiary attack on the city; St. Paul's Cathedral rose from a vast lake of fire and smoke. At steady intervals, the air would fill with the roar of an arris ing bomber stream, followed by a swish as incendiaries fell into the fire below Harris called Portal to view the scene. They stood in silence for a few minutes As they were turning away, Harris quietly remarked, "They are sowing the wind" Harris's earlier work-his speech in Cairo, his 1937 paper, and his pro- nouncements during the war-had all caught the attention of Portal, who by then had come to share Harris's faith in area bombing. Portal quietly waited for the chance to make Harris his protege. It came on December 6, 1941. On that day, Sir Richard Peirse resigned as commander-in-chief of Bomber Command Peirse was blamed, rightly or wrongly, for Bomber Command's poor perform- ance, and by the end of 1941 his days were numbered. On December 10, Si Archibald Sinclair, a friend of Churchill, former Liberal leader, Secretary of State for Air, and somewhat marginal figure in the war, saw the opportunity to move Peirse sideways. Following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, he needed a new Air commander-in-chief in the Far East.4 Sinclair saw his chance. He sug- gested to Portal that Peirse take the job.5 Harris's experience and his contacts in the