, followed by a second at 12:50 A.M. Elfriede heard the bombers fly over, seemingly toward Berlin in the southeast. The airplanes soon turned, though, and the roar grew louder. The wishful belief that the city would be spared lasted only a few seconds. The bombers turned toward southwest Hamburg. At 8 P.M., as Elfriede was leaving her apartment for the bunker, a boy from an even poorer background, Werner Wendland, was finishing a swim with three friends in the canal. It was close to the river and a favourite spot for working- class boys from the neighbourhood. The streets were hot and dusty, and the three of them walked back laughing, shoving each other and thinking about supper. Back on his street, Stresowstrasse, Werner saw people with backpacks heading toward the bunker, pushing bicycles overloaded with belongings. He asked them what they were doing. "There will be a huge air-raid tonight," came the response. The boys laughed it off. Until then, every large attack had been fol- lowed by a period of calm or nothing more than nuisance raids. Werner returned home and told his parents the story. They decided to wait and see how the night would unfold. When the first air-raid warning rang out over the city, his father told Werner to go to the shelter, promising to join him after- wards. Ten minutes later, Werner, his mother, and his sister joined a neighbour and her daughter. They guessed that the Berliner Tor bunker would be full and went instead to a smaller shelter down the street. An hour later, Werner's father had still  6 FIRE AND FURY The day Hamburg died | 7 not arrived. Following a tip given by his neighbours, Werner went to the nearby air-raid bunker. It was so full that there was no chance of pushing past the crowds to reach his father. Just then, the roar of planes above became louder, and he saw the marker flares gliding down against the night sky. Werner thought, If this gets worse, my mother and sister will need my help more than my father. He headed ba