at particularly suited Britain's circumstances. "Involvement in land campaigns," he wrote to Churchill in June 1942, "especially Continental campaigns, serves but to reduce us to the level of the Horde. We are not a Horde. We are a highly industrialized, under-populated, physically . . . small island. Our lead is in science, not spawn; in brains, not brawn."20 It was also the best way. "Victory," he wrote in the same letter, "speedy and complete awaits the side which first employs air power as it should be employed. ... [City bombing will] knock Germany out of the War in a matter of months." 101 Harris's theory had been tested, but not proven, in the Ruhr. The cities had suffered extensive damage. Only one major urban centre-Hagen-was stand- ing by the end of the battle, and it would be finished off on a single night in October.21 Harris had every reason to believe that industry had suffered as well- reconnaissance photos showed direct hits on the Krupp works in Essen, for instance. What's more, the industrial damage that did occur was repaired by the end of September. For all its accomplishments, Bomber Command had yet to achieve the sort of decisive blow that would knock out a city on a single raid. Even Essen, which suffered more than any other city, had to be bombed twice during the Battle of the Ruhr, and it would be hit hundreds of times before it was wiped off the map. The death toll had reached new highs, but remained in the thousands. Part of the problem was the cities themselves. The Ruhr is Germany's most populated region, but it is made up of a series of medium-sized cities. While Harris was happy to see them go under, they were not his main target. Ger- many's largest and most famous cities-Berlin, Munich, Hamburg, and Frankfurt-were all outside the Ruhr. Up to this point in his command, Har- ris had been salvaging the credibility that Bomber Command had lost during the first three aimless years of the bombing war. He was able to turn to his main tar- g