civilian control over military is sacred. Churchill could have stopped area bombing and he did not; indeed, near the end of the war, he urged it on. One final issue remains to be considered because it is raised so often: whether or not bombing was a war crime. In an already emotional debate, no question has generated more emotion. The issue is both clear and confused. It is clear insofar as the one generally accepted guide to war crimes is found in the Nuremberg Principles, articulated during the Nuremberg trials and adopted by the United Nations in 1950. Principle VI defines as a war crime the "wanton destruction of  286 | FIRE AND FURY Conclusion 1 cities, towns, or villages, or devastation not justified by military necessity." Under the principles, a war crime is such whether it was committed before or after the First World War, a fact that makes Harris's technically correct claim that the laws of warfare did not cover bombing less compelling than it might seem. If the area bombing campaign constituted "wanton destruction," it was a war crime. The issue is confused in that the debate over whether the bombing was "wanton" or "justified" will continue. It is often said that total war justified the area bombing of Germany. This is doubtful. Whereas total war-understood as the erasure of the distinction between a soldier and a civilian-with all of its unspeakable human conse- quences, existed between the Germans and the Soviets, there is a case for sug- gesting that it never did between Germany and the Western Allies. Total mobilization, yes (if latterly in Germany and never in America); total war, no. When Allied soldiers or airmen fell into German captivity, they were-in the main-treated decently, in line with the Geneva Convention. When Allied air- crew found themselves attacked by angry civilians or the SS, the Wehrmacht (unless it arrived too late) protected them. The same was of course true on the other side. And, finally, when the Allied armies invaded Germany