cted the family's most important documents, dressed her- self and her son in as many clothes as they could wear, and put a rucksack on his back. Her husband was at work and she could not get word to him. They left their flat at Götenstrasse, 55 at 5 P.M. and headed to the Berliner Tor (the Berlin Gate), just a few blocks north. Their neighbourhood was Hammerbrook, a working-class district about two miles southeast of the city centre. The architecture was characteristic of turn-of- the-century Germany. Most buildings were blocks of four- or five-storey houses. The apartments at the front of these houses were populated by the relatively affluent. The flats at the back were dark and small. They housed the poor. Some eighteen families lived in each house. Between 1928 and 1932, unemployment in the neighbourhood had more than quadrupled. Ernst-Günther and his mother needed to get to the air-raid shelter at the Berliner Tor. The building, called a Winkel (tower shelter), had been built in 1939. It was a multi-storey bunker with curved outer walls and a peaked, oval roof. Many air-raid shelters were made of solid concrete and looked like massive rec- tangle blocks, but the one at Berliner Tor was covered in brick. It was almost attractive. There were two large main doors made of steel, with steps leading up to them. From outside, it looked like a windmill without the sails. The outer walls were just over three feet thick at the base (and about half that near the 3  4 1 FIRE AND FURY The day Hamburg died | 5 apex); the roof was nine feet thick. Inside, the shelter's services-heating and electricity, toilets, running drinking water, and ventilation-were all contained in a central column-like structure. Between the column and the outer walls were rows of wide, backless benches just a few feet apart. A spiral staircase led down to a deep basement and the floors below. In all, some six hundred people could fit into the bunker, but it was always far too full. Ernst-Günther and h