chall did anyway. The day after the raid, on August 18,  128 FIRE AND FURY Speer's nightmare 1 Schweinfurt was at its most vulnerable. The Luftwaffe had lost forty-seven fighters in the previous battle and would be less able to defend the city. The American bombing had blown off factory roofs, collapsed the upper floors, and punched great gaping holes. The ball bearings machines on the ground floor were exposed,22 That night, Speer waited for news of the follow-up RAF raid. It never came. The British Air Staff had been pressuring Harris to bomb Schweinfurt throughout late 1943, and continued to do so for months after the raid. 23 "It is essential," Norman Bottomley, Deputy Chief of Air Staff, wrote to Harris on December 23, 1943, "that the attempt to achieve within the time available the maximum destruction of the major built-up areas in Germany should not be allowed to prejudice the implementation of the Joint Anglo-American policy of employing the night bomber force whenever possible for the destruction of vital centres associated with . . . vital industries, e.g. ball-bearing and fighter assem- bly plants; these industries have been accorded the highest priority in the com- bined bomber offensive plan. ... Your night bomber forces would make the greatest contribution by completely destroying those vital centres which could be reached by day only at a heavy cost; examples are Schweinfurt, Leipzig and centres of twin-engined fighter industry." Drawing on an intelligence report. Bottomley continued, "whereas the German people feared the night attacks, Hitler and the German High Command feared the daylight precision attacks on individual factories. Hitler openly boasted that he could, by means of his party organisations, control the morale of the population from some considerable time. . . . The Air Staff," Bottomley added, "must take a somewhat less confi- dent view than [you do] of the possibility of causing the enemy to capitulate by reason of area attacks alone .