e in for dinner. Harrod's colleague ventured a figure on the value of British exports; Cherwell offered another. The matter was subsequently looked up, and my colleague wrote to the Prof. to acknowledge the fact that his, the Prof's, guess had been nearer than his own. The word "guess" was quite fatal; the Prof. never forgave him. I remember that many years later the Prof. had to consider a proposal put forward, and objected to it. "Why did you object, Prof .? " I said. "The proposal seems a very reasonable one." He made some specious criticisms which struck me as quite unconvincing. Then it suddenly flashed across my mind that the proposal was associated with my unfortunate colleague, who had accused the Prof. of "guessing" some twenty years before.27 It was at one of Cherwell's rare visits to High Table that he came across an idea that would have an important influence on the bombing war. Cherwell had been Churchill's scientific adviser since 1940. On one evening in August 1942, a young physiologist, Solly Zuckerman, the son of Eastern European Jewish immigrants to South Africa and an Oxford zoologist who conducted early experiments on the effects of bombing, was sitting next to Cherwell.28 Zuckerman worked at the Ministry of Home Security. The two men found themselves in agreement on Bomber Command: despite the poor results, the case against bombing had not been proved. More importantly, there was no other way of hitting the Germans. Zuckerman suggested to Cherwell that there might be one way of proving the case: survey the damage done by the Germans in their raids on English cities, and generalize the results back to German ones.29 Cherwell immediately took to the idea. He threw his support behind the survey and gave Zuckerman three specific questions: How many tons of bombs does it take to break a town? And, how should the bombs be delivered-in one sharp attack or over a number of nights; if the latter, in what rations should the total load be distributed and o