d chosen to press on. As he came in over the water, he did not enjoy Gibson's element of surprise. Flak strafed his airplane, setting his starboard wing on fire. His bomb-aimer, John Fraser of Nanaimo, British Columbia, released the bomb. It bounced over the dam and destroyed the pumping station. The burning aircraft crossed the dam. Hopgood held it steady and ordered his crew out. Fraser "knelt facing forward over the escape hatch and . . . saw that the trees looked awful damn close. I thought there was only one thing to do and that was to pull the rip cord and let the pilot chute go out first and then let it pull the chute out and me after it and that's what I did. I rolled out and the tail wheel whizzed by my ear. I swung to the vertical and within 2 or 3 seconds I touched the ground."7 In the plane itself, Hopgood shouted to his rear gunner, Tony Burcher. "Get out, you damn fool!" He struggled to hold the plane as his men escaped. Burcher, who had been wounded in the first strafing, managed to throw him- self through the bomb chute. He bounced off the tail plane and broke his back, but he lived. Hopgood stayed at the controls as the plane went down, crashing some two thousand feet from where Fraser had jumped. Above, over the squadron radio, someone said, "Poor old Hoppy." As Hopgood sacrificed himself to save his crew, a third plane attacked the dam. Micky Martin, an Australian, followed the same path blazed by Gibson and Hopgood. To draw off German fire, Gibson joined him. In what must have been an awing and fearful sight to anyone watching from the dam, Martin and Gibson came in together, all guns blazing. Martin's bomb skipped and scored another direct hit. But the dam still held. Next on the attack was Dinghy Young,  96 1 FIRE AND FURY a sort of English-speaking polyglot: he had been raised in California, educated at Cambridge, and joined the Royal Canadian Air Force. Young's airplane came in with Gibson and Martin on each wing tip, using their guns to draw