. Throughout the war, Churchill's attitude to the bombers and bombing shifted in a way that frustrated the airmen then and confuses historians now. He would, as in his September 1941 note to Portal, dismiss the airmen's promises as overblown; in the next note, he would blast his airmen for failing to accelerate the campaign. One day he would appear the guardian of European culture; the next he would be prepared to flatten Hamburg or Dresden just to have something in hand at his next meeting with Stalin. Infuriated at the depths to which the Nazis would sink, he at times called for the levelling of everything that stood in Germany. At others, he would read reports of the bombing and doubts would creep in. In the summer of 1943, after viewing film of ravaged Ruhr cities, he wept and asked Jan Smuts (prime minister of South Africa and field marshal in the British Army), "Are we beasts? Are we taking this too far?" Throughout the war, Churchill was under overwhelming pressure. Every day, he got up around 8 A.M.33 His staff would bring him a cooked breakfast, which he would eat in bed. His secretary, Miss Hill, followed soon after- wards with his boxes. The prime minister did not get out of bed; instead, it became a desk and he got straight to work. Two hours later, his valet would arrive, draw his bath, and lay out his clothes. Miss Hill would leave with the typing. The rest of the morning was occupied by meetings with chiefs of staff or the War Cabinet. Midday would be broken up by a good lunch with his wife, Clementine, followed by at least an hour's sleep and another bath. If the House was sitting, he would go there to take questions, followed by drinks in the smoking room. He would then head to Downing Street, where there were more meetings  58 1 FIRE AND FURY Burn, Germany, burn | 59 and telephone calls, often to Roosevelt. Churchill might then dictate a few more letters to Miss Hill before going for dinner. Dinner was usually the longest event of the day, accompan