sorbed round after round of bullets from the front and flak from below. Flaming bombers fell away on all sides. By the time they reached the city's three ball bearings factories, thirty-two bombers had been lost. The remaining 298 began bombing at 4 P.M. local time, unloading 265 tons of high explosives and 115 tons of incendiaries on the factories and, in some cases, the surround- ing neighbourhoods. It was a beautiful, clear day when Wilbur's B-17 reached Schweinfurt. Still under fighter attack, the crew approached the target area. As they turned at the initial point where all of the bombers began their bomb runs and the flak guns opened. Shells began exploding all around and shrapnel began ripping holes in the fuselage. As it did, the bomb bays opened. The lead bomber dropped his bombs, and the B-17s behind him followed. The moment the group was out of flak range, the German fighters were back. Under heavy Luftwaffe attack, the Americans flew north out of Schweinfurt, banked west, and continued on to Eupen and the waiting spitfires. By the time they reached England, they had lost thirty-six heavy bombers, a staggering casu- alty rate of 20 percent. The Schweinfurt raid shook American confidence. Imperial War Museum London They had paid a high price, but had exacted a heavier toll. The Americans were only able to drop thousand-pound bombs (the British had 4000-pound bombs by this point) and one-third of the bombs missed their targets and landed on houses. Nonetheless, the destruction caused Germany's ball bearings production to fall by 38 percent. Hitler was furious, and he placed the blame squarely on Hans Jeschonnek, the Luftwaffe's Chief of Staff. The next day, Jeschonnek shot himself, leaving a note stating that Göring should not attend the funeral; the Reichsmarschall did anyway. The day after the raid, on August 18,  128 FIRE AND FURY Speer's nightmare 1 Schweinfurt was at its most vulnerable. The Luftwaffe had lost forty-seven fighters in the previous battl