st a few feet apart. A spiral staircase led down to a deep basement and the floors below. In all, some six hundred people could fit into the bunker, but it was always far too full. Ernst-Günther and his mother took their places. The majority of people there were women, children, and old men. Each shelter had an air-raid warden, often Wehrmacht soldiers, members of the SS, or Hitler Youth who had sought safety from the bombs. Most of the other young men were away fighting at the front. Soon, all the benches were taken and the aisles were also full of people standing. Sometime after 8 P.M., there were around one thousand people inside and the massive steel door was closed and sealed. Latecomers hoping to enter were left standing on the steps. Inside, it was horribly uncomfortable. People had barely any room to move. They made stilted conversation. The atmosphere was hot and stale, and every- one was overdressed. They were allowed only one bag in the shelter, so they wore layers of garments. Those who had not drunk enough liquid soon felt desper- ately thirsty; those who had drunk too much were in need of the toilet. No one dared give up their seat, knowing it would not be there when they returned. As Ernst-Günther and his mother made their way to the bunker, a thirteen-year- old girl, Elfriede Bock, was at home with her family. Like Ernst-Günther, Elfriede was a native of Hammerbrook. She was raised by a harsh mother and a distant father who made it clear to her that he had wanted a son. "I had no idea," she said sixty years later, "that women could have any value." The Nazis told her they could, and did: as mothers, they were Germany's future. Elfriede's father came home at 5 P.M., earlier than expected. He ordered his wife and daughter to pack their things and get ready to go to the shelter. Elfriede's mother looked startled, and in her strong Hamburg accent she said, "Why? It sounds like we will never come back to this apartment again." Elfriede's father barked, "J