ed the German garrison at Aachen the opportunity to sur- render. It was refused. For five days, air and ground troops hammered the city until, on October 21, resistance ended. Although the Americans might have pro- gressed much faster if they had ignored Aachen and pressed on eastward, Aachen made clear that German resistance was fierce.4 These surprising setbacks shook Allied confidence. Occupying Germany was not going to be as easy as OVERLORD had led them to believe. The question was how to respond to what seemed to be a revival of German strength and fortunes. The Western Allied armies, mindful of casualties in a way that the Germans and Russians were not, opted for a more conservative strategy, one that inadvertently allowed the Germans to regroup along the Western Front. In the air forces, people divided on predictable lines. Harris remained com- mitted to cities; Spaatz to oil and German fighter production; and Tedder to communications. In practice, the division between Tedder and Spaatz didn't matter much. On the ground, both the oil and the communications campaigns were doing their work. The bombing of rail lines, bridges, tanks, and anything that moved had severely hampered the Germans' ability to get troops to Normandy. Now that the Allies were on the Continent, Allied bombing of communications contin- ued to be the Germans' worst headache on the Western Front. Whereas German troops could go for days without seeing Allied armies, the bombers hammered them constantly. As Max Hasting writes, "Every German was dismayed by the ubiquity and impact of air power. Any German vehicle movement in daylight was likely to be rewarded by fighter-bomber attack, of an effectiveness unknown on the Eastern Front."s By contrast, thanks to American attacks on the Luftwaffe. the Allies themselves moved freely behind the front by day or night.6 Overall command of the strategic bombing war had been returned from Eisenhower to Spaatz and Harris on September 14. On that day, Port