ost sympathetic," but wanted more information about the "precise location, extent and nature of the camps and installations at Birkenau." The Ministry passed a request for photographic intelligence to the Foreign Ministry, but never got a reply.31 Meanwhile Allied bombers continued to fly over Auschwitz and reconnaissance flights seeking evidence of industry and bomb damage to it brought back photographs of the camps. One of these photos, near the end of the month, showed Jews walking from a train toward a gas chamber.32 On August 7, American bombers hit oil refineries at Trzebina, thirteen miles from Auschwitz.33 One week later, another appeal, from the World Jewish Congress, to bomb the gas chambers and crematorium at Auschwitz was rejected by John McCloy as a  188 1 FIRE AND FURY Oil and baby killing 1 costly diversion unlikely to succeed.34 On August 27, 350 U.S. bombers again hit Blechhammer, and two days later they bombed Trzebina again,35 Three months after McCloy's July 4 cable, Pehle forwarded another recom- mendation that Auschwitz be bombed, this time from the Polish government- in-exile. It was sent along to Spaatz on October 3. It was the first and last time that the War Department sent a proposal for bombing Auschwitz to an air force official in the European theatre.36 General Frederick Anderson urged him "to give no encouragement to the project. ... There is the possibility of some of the bombs landing on the prisoners. . . . In that event the Germans would be pro- vided with a fine alibi for any wholesale massacre that they might perpetuate."37 The matter went no further. Months before Anderson's dismissive communication to Spaatz, Shalom Lin- denbaum arrived at Auschwitz with her father in a sealed goods wagon. A week later, she and other Jews who had arrived with her were summoned for a roll call near the camp gate. They were: . .. afraid that it was our turn, because normally before dusk there were no transports to other camps. On the nearby road,