had grown rich through buying, redesigning, and selling property, and it was he who convinced Albert to study architecture rather than his true love, mathematics.13 Beyond that fateful moment, there was little personal or  FIRE AND FURY 74 Göring and Speer | 75 social contact between the two men. Albert Sr. liked his boys robust and he instinctively preferred his two other sons over the bookish and fragile Albert Jr. As Albert grew older, the differences became political. His father was by incli- nation liberal, and he clung to that embattled creed throughout the 1920s and 1930s. As Europe marched to war, he aligned himself with the visionary pan-European ideals of Count Coudenhove-Kalergi, one of the earliest intellec- tual influences on European integration. Until the 1930s, Albert Jr. was deeply apolitical. He thought, as all Germans did without thinking, that Versailles was a travesty, but he barely noticed the postwar world around him. The revolution the Kapp putsch, the assassination of Rathenau, and the Munich putsch all occurred under Speer's radar. Thanks to his father's prescient decision to divest himself of Reichsmarks in favour of dollars, Speer even escaped the inflation receiving a princely sum as an allowance.14 Weimar Germany was fun if you had a lot of U.S. dollars and little social conscience. Speer Sr., again very much unlike his son, also had a deep sense of morality In the mid-1930s, he attended a Berlin theatre with Albert, and Hitler unex- pectedly invited him to his box at the interval.15 When Speer's father met the dictator, he began to tremble and turn pale, reacting viscerally to what Speer Jr later called Hitler's "otherness." By contrast, Speer Jr. only developed a moral sense-if he ever did-while in the docks of Nuremberg. Speer studied first in Karlsruhe and then in Munich before finally settling at the Technical University of Berlin, where he studied with Heinrich Tessenow, an apostle of simple, unadorned architecture that was the an