e caught the Allies off guard and destroyed 450 planes, including 146 from Bomber Command.25 But it lost much more: 400 engines, 237 pilots, 59 leaders, and the ability to fight on. "The Luftwaffe received its death blow," Galland wrote after the war, "at the Ardennes offensive. In the unfamiliar conditions and with insufficient training and combat experience, our numerical strength had no effect. It was decimated while in transfer, on the ground, in large air battles . .. and was finally destroyed. In this forced action [the January 1, 1945, raids] we sacrificed our last sub- stance."26 The Americans' long war against the Luftwaffe-which had, like the villain in a bad horror movie, kept rising from the dead-had been definitively won. The German Air Force was finished, and with it went any hope of pro- tecting German cities. Hitler would make one last try-Operation Northwind, designed to break through U.S. lines in France, near Alsace-but it came to nothing. German troops advanced some twelve miles, then stopped. The Ardennes offensive was lost. As Speer put it after the war, because of transportation raids "the prepa- rations for the Ardennes offensive were brought to a standstill . .. the attack was ordered to begin although the units had only one or two fuel supply units; the entire supplies of bridge-building equipment still lay in the rear areas, whilst the rest of the supply organization for the units was insufficient for the distant goal in view. ... Transport difficulties were decisive in causing the swift breakdown of the Ardennes offensive."27 During January 1945, the Eighth launched thirty-two raids, the majority on marshalling yards. German troops killed nineteen thousand Amer- ican soldiers-by far the highest death toll for any Second World War battle. Another twenty-three thousand were captured and forty thousand wounded. The scale of the blow temporarily destroyed Eisenhower's nerve and delayed another major American offensive against Germany by seven