afford a large apartment in a desirable central street. In 1938, he had stood at the flat's front windows and watched Nazi thugs throw Jews and their belongings from the house across the street. It was Kristallnacht. On the night of Würzburg's destruction, he had just finished repairing the flat's windows, which had been blown out during an earlier raid. A mile further southeast, Hans Heer, the fifteen-year-old son of a basket maker was on his bed. He had drunk too much, and the room was spinning. Over his father's objections, Hans worked at a nearby airfield, where he met members of the passive resistance. His other friends, living in a school next to his house, were an equally unusual group of people in Nazi Germany: the blind. Several blocks away, an eleven-year-old boy, Heinrich Weppert, was playing with toys given to him by his landlord. Weppert's life had improved under the Nazis. When Jews in a larger apartment in Heinrich's apartment block disap- peared, Heinrich's family was able to move into it. The toys had been left by one of the deported Jewish children. 5 P.M., ENGLAND Air marshals announced the targets: Nuremberg and Würzburg. Five Group had a distinguished history in the bombing war: its bombers had attacked Heilbronn, Darmstadt, Königsberg, Braunschweig, Munich, and Kassel, and it had been the leading and decisive component in the February 13, 1945, raid on Dresden.3 At approximately 5 P.M., 501 Lancasters and 227 Mosquitoes pre- pared for takeoff. The bombers did not take the most direct route. When they reached con- tinental Europe, they followed a southeasterly course north of Reims toward the Vogesen mountains. From there, they went northeast, crossing the Rhine, by now the Western Front. At Crailsheim, a smaller formation of 223 bombers-212 Lancasters and 11 Mosquitoes-broke off from the main bombing stream and flew on to Würzburg; the rest headed toward what was left of Nuremberg. They would bomb southern Nuremberg, including the neighbourhood