French people. Not a single aircraft was lost on either raid, and it was made crystal clear that Bomber Command was capable of a high degree of precision. Less obviously, the raids also showed that the cantankerous commander-in-chief would, when push came to shove, obey a direct and unequivocal order. When the March 25 meeting occurred, Harris's success left him unable to make a tactical case against transportation targets. His views on all "panaceas" were well known, and restating them would have gained him nothing. Instead, he reserved his invective for Leigh-Mallory, who let it be known that he was "reluctant to go down to posterity as the man who killed thousands of Frenchmen." Harris shot back: "What makes you think you're going to go down to posterity at all?"15 Spaatz left the March 25 meeting disappointed, but not dejected. Although transportation won out over oil, he was still left with much that he liked. For his part, Harris had been assigned twenty-six rail targets in France, so he could not go on bombing cities while Spaatz was diverted from his own preferred targets. More importantly, the overall agreement on the importance of destroying the Luftwaffe gave Spaatz a wedge into oil attacks. If bombing oil targets brought a fierce Luftwaffe response, then oil targets would fal ould fall squarely within his pri- mary order to destroy the Luftwaffe.16 At the same time, poor weather limited the number of direct raids of transportation, freeing up surplus bombers for oil.17 After a long fight over transportation and oil, it was proving possible to hit both. Within a week of his March 25 loss, Spaatz regrouped and made his case to Portal and Eisenhower. In a March 31 memo, he defended his oil plan with a 175 clarity that had escaped him six days earlier. "The effect from the Oil attack," he wrote, while offering a less definite input in time, is certain to be more far- reaching. It will lead directly to sure disaster for Germany. The Rail attack can lead to ha