the cere- monies at which Germany's surrender was formally accepted. None came, and on May 12 he wrote to Portal in protest. The next day, Churchill gave his VE speech to the nation. The prime minister spoke of the early days of the war, the Battle of Britain, the Blitz, the importance of Northern Ireland, the work of the Royal Navy and the Merchant Navy in the crucial Battle of the Atlantic, the entry into the war of Russia, Japan, and the USA, the liberation of France, the defeat of the V-weapons campaigns, the invasion of the Continent, and the postwar world. With the exception of a vague reference to bomb damage in Berlin, the bomber offensive got not a single mention. 263  FIRE AND FURY 264 1 As the last bombs fell | 265 Harris waited for some other recognition for his role in defeating Germany. It did not come. The British government excluded Bomber Command from the honours liberally handed out. It was denied a campaign medal. Clement Attlee, Churchill's successor as prime minister, thought little of Harris. He denied him a peerage (Harris alone among major British war leaders failed to secure one) and Churchill declined to intervene.2 Harris was given no offer of further employment, and he departed for South Africa at the end of 1945. making no effort to hide his bitterness about how he and his men had been treated. Harris rushed his memoirs into print in 1947, but they did nothing to rescue his plummeting reputation. His inability to be anything but brutally honest dam- aged it further. He made no apologies for civilian deaths or cultural losses. defended area bombing as "comparatively humane," and argued that if he had only had more bombers he would have single-handedly defeated the Germans. The United Kingdom's most prestigious military institute refused to review Harris's book in its Journal of the Royal United Services Institute. Harris was finished. He spent the next eight years in South African obscurity, running a shipping company. He returned to Engl