One who was shocked by the minute and its logic was Cherwell's Oxford colleague Sir Henry Tizard. Tizard had played a key role in the development of radar, but by the early 1940s his influence was on the wane. He had disagreed with Cherwell more than once (on December 12, 1942, he wrote that an Air Ministry memorandum assumed that night bombing was going to win the war when it would not) and experienced the "Prof.s" wrath for daring to do so. Tizard finally decided to pack in the dark art of politics for the more genteel world of the Oxford common room. He was likely not cut out for political life anyway. In an interview with an American researcher, he suggested that American and British scientists could work in a vacuum isolated from political considerations. "Between scientists," he said, "there are no barriers except language."34 This is probably never true, but it was certainly not true in wartime. In 1942, Tizard became president of Magdalen. His last act was to speak out against Cherwell's minute. On April 15, 1942, he wrote directly to Cherwell: I am afraid that I think that the way you put the facts as they appear to you is extremely misleading and may lead to entirely wrong decisions being reached, with a consequent disastrous effect on the war. I think, too, that you have got your facts wrong. .. . I conclude therefore (a) that a policy of bombing German towns wholesale in order to destroy dwellings cannot have a decisive effect by the middle of 1943, even if all heavy bombers and the great majority of Wellingtons produced are used primarily for this purpose. (b) That such a policy can only have a decisive effect if carried out on a much bigger scale than is envisaged [in your paper].35 Cherwell's biographer and those close to the events have pointed out that it is an error to contrast a humane Tizard, who wanted to spare German cities the horrors of bombing, with a sadistic Cherwell. Some of Cherwell's more blood- thirsty comments make the contrast a temp