tion, a few minutes from Berlin's famous boulevard, the Unter den Linden, and from the Brandenburg Gate and the Reichstag. When Welch's plane reached the target, his bombardier released his load of 500-pound bombs on the station. "God help them," he whispered as the bombs hurtled toward their target.1 The station was crowded full of refugees fleeing the Russian advance. As the bombs rained down, people scurried into the tunnels. One was Herie Granberg, a Swedish newspaper correspondent. "The ground heaved," he wrote in a report smuggled out after the raid, "the lights flickered. It seemed the concrete walls bulged. People scrambled about like frightened animals."2 Clouds of dust filled the tunnels. Outside, it was worse. Those who did not make it into the station in time were slaughtered. Bombs exploded on or around them. Flying glass and metal fragments sliced through them. When the bombing stopped, Granberg climbed out of the tunnel to find dozens of people dead and dying in the square in front of the station. The raid ravaged other areas of the stricken city. Large parts of Mitte (the centre), Kreuzberg (south of the centre and later the heart of West Berlin's coun- terculture scene), and Friedrichshain (working-class east Berlin) were reduced to rubble.3 A vast column of smoke covered the central city. All utilities were 239  240 | FIRE AND FURY American area bombing knocked out. For days, delay-action time bombs exploded, shaking the ground.4 The attack, wrote one Foreign Office official, "was the ultimate apocalypse, as far as Berlin is concerned . .. Never has the city looked so devastated . . . Rain and water from the melting snow bespatter its ruins with muck, and streams of filthy water flow through the streets."s The raid was city and civilian bombing, pure and simple. "We were told today," a member of Welch's crew wrote in his diary, "that if we had any scru- ples about bombing civilians, it was hard luck for us because from now on we'll be bombing and s