from the Japanese ambas- sador in Berlin quoted Speer saying in confidence that "the attack on oil installations was the problem to which they attached the greatest importance at the moment. ... The only sound method of combating [such] air attacks . . . was to regain air superiority."78 Three days later, Bufton and Air Vice-Marshal D. Colyer, Assistant Chief of the Air Staff for policy, wrote that "serious con- sideration should be given to according overriding priority to the attack of oil targets by the Allied Strategical Bomber Forces."79 This was English mandarin speak for "bomb oil immediately!" Doing so would cripple German production and, because planes need fuel to fly, the Luftwaffe. The Americans were doing just that. During July, Spaatz took every oppor- tunity to bomb oil targets. The cost over 12 raids was 247 bombers-212 lost and  196 1 FIRE AND FURY Oil and baby killing another 35 written off-or 70 percent of the Eighth's total losses for the month. The Fifteenth launched 13 missions (out of a total of 15) against oil, at the cost of 196 bombers. In July alone, the Fifteenth hit Ploesti five times. Oil was not the Eighth's only target. Spaatz also backed up the Armed Forces' advance, and he launched a series of city raids. Munich was bombed on July II, 12, 13, and 16; what was left of Stuttgart was hit on July 16. The Munich raids tar- geted BMW and were meant to be precision raids. Weather and H2X's impre- cision meant that the city was also hit. As Anderson said on July 21, "We will conduct bombing attacks through the overcast where it is impossible to get pre- cision targets. Such attacks will include German marshalling yards whether or not they are located in German cities."80 The intention remained the same, how- ever: they hit industry when they could. As the same letter put it, "We have in the past, and will continue to do so in the future, directed our efforts toward pre- cision targets . . . We will not, at any time, direct our efforts towar