estern Germany. The largest force ever dispatched by the Eighth Air Force was hitting the Luftwaffe front, middle, and centre. That night, some twelve hours after his men left, Spaatz was waiting nerv- ously for news at Park House. He was determined to see POINTBLANK through to completion, and he was willing to lose hundreds of bombers to do it. Anderson, who was even more gung-ho than Spaatz, was prepared to see seven thousand American pilots and aircrew die-two-thirds of his entire crews and one-third of the number of Marines that would die taking the Pacific-to see the Luftwaffe destroyed.21 But a large number of losses at this early point in Spaatz's war on the Luftwaffe, even if (as at Schweinfurt) they inflicted heavy losses on the Germans, would have been severely damaging. It would have given fodder to Churchill and other enemies of precision bombing and strengthened the hand of those, such as Brereton, who opposed the concentration of power and authority in Spaatz's hands. As the evening wore on, group after group reported, and the story was always the same: they had losses of only one or two, many times none at all.22 The attacks had damaged four plants producing Luftwaffe night fighters/bombers (Ju 88s), and two others producing day fighter aircraft (Bf 109s). More importantly, only twenty-one American heavy bombers and four fighters had been lost, half the figure lost on a January II raid on the same targets and one-third of the losses of Schweinfurt/Regensburg. Of the 11,000 men who went out, all but 214 came back. On the other side, the Germans had lost 150 fighters. Spaatz was ecstatic, "on the crest of the highest wave he had ever ridden."23 167 Over the next five days, until the weather turned, the Eighth and Fifteenth air forces fought their way to and from targets deep inside Germany. The Americans attacked shipyards in Rostock, railway and power stations in Berlin, aircraft indus- try in Brunswick, Daimler-Benz in Stuttgart, Messerschmitt factori