ers and 11 Mosquitoes-broke off from the main bombing stream and flew on to Würzburg; the rest headed toward what was left of Nuremberg. They would bomb southern Nuremberg, including the neighbourhoods of Steinbühl, Lichtenhof, Galgenhoff, St. Leonhard, and the gasworks; 562 Germans and 35 foreigners, mostly forced labourers, would be killed. 1 251 At 9:20 P.M., the pathfinders flew over the red, peaked roofs of Würzburg. They dropped eighteen flares, which would guide the bombers over the town. These were quickly followed by the green and red markers, the Christmas trees, whose slow descent lit up the Würzburg night. A few minutes later, hundreds of bombers passed over the compact town and the bombs began to fall. In three waves, the RAF hammered Würzburg. The first wave dropped three hundred thousand 1.7-kilogram, sixty-centimetre- long incendiaries. They lit the place on fire. The high explosives followed immediately. They landed in the area bounded by Neubaustrasse and Hoffstrasse, Theaterstrasse and Bahnhoffstrasse. They crashed through the roof of the Rathaus, the houses in the Domstrasse (hitting but not collapsing the roof of the Dome), and the rococo-stuccoed Falkan- hause in the Marktplatz. Würzburg exploded. By 9:30 P.M., ten minutes into the raid, every single street in the city was in flames. Spiegelstrasse, a few blocks north of the river, collapsed entirely; any- one who had not left the cellars died. At Würzburg's jewel, the Residence, the roof with its magnificent fresco over the grand staircase survived the bom- bardment, just as its architect, Neumann, had predicted in the 1740s (he offered to fire a battery of cannons in the Residence to prove that the ceiling would hold), but the incendiary bombs set the building alight. The fires tore through the south-wing apartments and the regal rooms. They climbed the walls and covered the ceilings, destroying everything. Many of the drapings and furniture had been moved after an earlier bombing, but the or