Roosevelt occupied a spacious villa known as Dar es Saada. Churchill's Villa Mirador was about fifty yards away.6 When Churchill arrived, it wasn't clear whether de Gaulle would show, as he had refused to work with Henri Giraud, who had the Americans backing.7 Giraud, though thoroughly anti-German (he became a national celebrity through a daring escape from a Nazi prison), incurred de Gaulle's wrath by supporting Pétain. Both Churchill and Roosevelt were in good spirits, and they set the tone of the conference. De Gaulle wasn't due to arrive until January 16, and the first two days of the summit were conducted in a relaxed atmosphere. As Churchill put it, "I had some nice walks with Pound and other Chiefs of Staff on the rocks and the beach. Wonderful waves rolling in, enormous clouds of foam."8 Roosevelt was, if anything, even more at ease. The president repeatedly let everyone know how delighted he was to escape Washington's 24-7 pressure-cooker politics, and his 1 83 "mood was that of a schoolboy on vacation."9 Roosevelt's only complaint was of the "Winston hours"-post-dinner drinks that lasted until 2 A.M.10 Frivolity did not mean agreement, however. The most important differences concerned invasion tactics. The British wanted to concentrate on North Africa and delay the invasion of the European continent; the Americans wished to hold on North Africa and speed the invasion." General Marshall viewed Allied activ- ities in the Mediterranean as a diversion from the real show: a head-on invasion of the continent. There were also disagreements over bombing. Except for Harris, all partici- pants agreed that bombing alone would not win the war. Even Portal, an advo- cate of area bombing, conceded that it would be necessary to "exert maximum pressure on Germany by land operations; air bombardment alone was not suf- ficient."12 The 1942 bombings of Bremen, Emden, Duisburg, Düsseldorf, Lübeck, Osnabrück, Hamburg, Frankfurt, Rostock, and other cities had not brought German