ng the August 17, 1943, Peenemünde raid. Despite a clever RAF diversion force of a few Mosquitos that held most of the fighters back, the run was a success for the Luftwaffe and a slaughter for the bombers: forty were shot down that night.13 The fighters did not save Peenemünde, however. The RAF's costly but successful precision raid destroyed the factory trying to produce Hitler's "wonder weapons," delaying by Imperial War Museum London  144 FIRE AND FURY The Battle of Berlin 1 six months the V-1 (Vergeltungswaffe-1, "revenge weapon 1") and V-2 ("revenge weapon 2") rockets that would terrorize London. Regardless, less than a month after Hamburg, the Germans had rendered Window ineffective. The Wild Boar fighters were sent to Berlin. On the first night of the raid, August 23, they killed 298 RAF aircrew, including Kevin Hornibrook. The next two nights of the Battle of Berlin would go equally badly for Bomber Command. On August 31 and September 1, it lost 333 men-225 died and another 108 were taken prisoner. By contrast, eighty-seven Berliners lost their lives. Only ten out of almost four hundred aircraft managed to bomb Berlin that night; the rest dropped their load on the Brandenburg countryside, south of the capital. On the night of September 3-4, 130 aircrew died and 10 were taken prisoner. After two more costly raids-on Mannheim, where Bomber Command lost thirty- four bombers, and on Munich, where it lost sixteen-the weather over Berlin worsened. Bomber Command had lost one-third of its four-engined strength and one-quarter of its aircrew in nineteen days. It could not continue; Harris decided to delay the Battle of Berlin until Bomber Command could respond to Wild Boar. That took almost six weeks. With more heavy bombers, the Lancasters, bet- ter radar, and better weather, Harris was again ready to attack the German capi- tal. On November 3, 1943, Harris wrote a letter to the prime minister in which he took stock of the bombing war.14 Bombing had "virtually des