n my view will be surprisingly short."7  12 T Busting dams n the early hours of May 17, 1943, Speer was still working. An assistant handed I him a report. The largest of the Ruhr dams-the Möhne-had been shat- tered. It was one of four dams supplying the Ruhr with water and electricity. When it collapsed, the floods covered fifty square miles. They extinguished gas furnaces, flooded coal mines, and swamped more than one hundred factories and many homes. More than one thousand people were drowned. Speer drafted a report on the damage and delivered it personally to Hitler at his headquarters. It made a "deep impression" on him.1 The "dambuster" raids-formerly known as Operation Chastise-are the stuff of legend, perhaps the most famous of the RAF raids.2 The idea behind them-that a bomb could bounce into its target rather than being dropped on it-was conceived by the eccentric scientist and aircraft designer Barnes Wallis. Wallis was obsessed with bombs: how big they should be and how much they could destroy. The Möhne dam was 112 feet thick at the base, 25 feet thick at the top, and 130 feet high. Wallis originally suggested that a ten thousand-pound bomb would wreck it, depriving armaments makers of electricity and people of water. In 1943, however, Bomber Command had no airplane capable of carrying such a weight. Wallis was sent back to the drawing board. He then thought about the position of the bomb rather than simply its size: a small bomb exploding right next to the dam wall might do more damage than a larger one going off several feet away. After countless experiments and calculations, he concluded that a 6000-pound bomb, if placed right up against the dam wall, would destroy 93  FIRE AND FURY 94 1 it. The question was how to manage the placement. Further experiments led Wallis to the now-famous idea of a bouncing bomb. A round bomb that looked like a cement roller-technically, a mine-when dropped low would skip across the water and hit the side of the dam at th