y, but only gradually.23 Having reached agreement on who would bomb how, the Allies now needed to decide on what. In the run-up to the conference, the Americans had put a great deal of thought into how best to defeat the German menace at sea. They agreed on the need to destroy the factories producing U-boats, the Luftwaffe planes protecting them, and the raw materials that made them. Closely following this logic, they specified five essential targets: submarine yards and bases; the German air force, its factories and depots; ball bearings factories; oil installations; and facilities pro- ducing synthetic rubber and tires. There was not a word about cities. The conference ended on January 23. Roosevelt was getting ready to return to the States when Churchill came to see him. "You cannot come all this way to North Africa without seeing [the Oasis of] Marrakesh. Let us spend two days there. I must be with you when you see the sunset of the snows of the Atlas Mountains."24 Glad to have another reason to delay his return to Wash- ington, the president joined Churchill on a five-hour drive across the desert and saw out the day with dinner and a view of the sunset. Even before Churchill and Roosevelt went off on their journey, officials at the air ministry began drafting a new directive (christened "POINTBLANK") for Harris. It was ready on January 21, 1943, and came across his desk on February 4.2 The directive began with these words: "Your primary objective will be the pro- gressive destruction of the German military, industrial and economic system and the undermining of the morale of the German people to the point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened." If Eaker and the Amer- icans had their way, there would have been a full stop of the "economic system." The armed forces were not prepared to admit that the invasion of Germany was dependent on bombing, and the Americans viewed the destruction of morale through bombing as a lost cause.26 However, t