perial War Museum London I had never seen so many aircraft at one time before. There must have been thirty or forty of them. Some were night fighters, but the majority were four-engine bombers. Most of the planes seemed to be flying from south to north, but the tracer was going in every direction. There were searchlights-hundreds of them-and they caused me to lose my bear- ings. I saw one Lancaster in a steep dive, trying to get out of the search- lights, and another which dived steeply and then reared up and actually looped right over-I swear it. [The battle] was terrible for a kid like me, and I think it must have been just as bad for the British boys. It was the  142 | FIRE AND FURY The Battle of Berlin 1 most intensive night battle of the war I ever saw, a terrible inferno, still following me in nightmares in the next decade. Peter felt paralyzed. His heart was pounding. Then a bomber came directly in view in front of him, caught in the searchlight. From about two hundred yards away, Peter opened fire, aiming at the fuel tanks between the two engines He scored a direct hit. For two minutes, nothing seemed to happen, then the plane went down. Peter didn't see any parachutes. Peter's next sighting was a Stirling. Peter fired, but the pilot corkscrewed abruptly and unpredictably, which saved his life. The plane disappeared into the darkness. Peter flew on, and then spotted another Stirling well ahead of him. As he flew toward it, something unexpected happened. The Stirling turned and flew- back toward him. Peter fired right into it, scoring a hit. Then, the Stirling dived underneath him. As it did, the tail gunner sprayed bullets into the underside of Peter's Messerschmitt. I heard them hit my fuselage and a small fire started behind me. I checked with the crew but received no answer; the intercom was not working. When the heat of the fire became unbearable, I shouted, "GET OUT!" four or five times as loud as I could. Then I jettisoned the cockpit canopy and went o