than Gelsenkirchen. I must of course accept your decisions in these cases (but, may I say, with the hope that the daylight attack has laid the Gelsenkirchen bogey for ever). The issue [however] is a more fundamental one than whether or not you could have made a better choice in these two individ- ual cases. In the closing paragraphs of your letter of Ist November you refer to a plan for the destruction of the 60 leading German cities, and to 215 your effort to keep up with, and even to exceed, your average of 21/2 such cities devastated each month. I know that you have long felt such a plan to be the most effective way of bringing about the collapse of Germany. Knowing this, I have, I must confess, at times wondered whether the mag- netism of the remaining German cities has not in the past tended as much to deflect our bombers from their primary objectives as the tactical and weather difficulties which you described so fully in your letter of Ist November. I would like you to reassure me that this is not so. If I knew you to be so wholeheartedly in the attack on oil as in the past you have been in the matter of attacking cities, I would have little to worry about.32 For the moment, Portal had plenty to worry about. He had been studying photographs and intelligence reports from spies within Germany since the summer, and they showed a worrying trend. Oil production had fallen off sharply in the summer months, but was ticking up again. Fine summer weather had made repeated attacks easier, and-exactly as Speer had predicted a year earlier-these had begun knocking the legs out from under German war production. By early November, less than 20 percent of RAF bombs were falling on oil targets, and Germany's industrial production was recovering, and quickly. Without throwing everything the Americans and the RAF had at oil, the campaign would not be effective. "The crux of the matter," Portal wrote, "is that German oil production has risen from [its] September level, and seem