or increasing the number of bombers-sending out the maximum number of bombers on each mission.23 A larger mission might ensure that, even if large numbers of bombers were lost, enough would get past the fighters to do substantial damage. Increasing the number of bombers was the riskier of the two strategies: if a bombing forma- tion were underescorted or if substantial parts of it blew off course, the Luft- waffe would chew even a large force to pieces. Reducing the number of bombers was safe, but it came at a price: the lousy autumn weather reduced the number of raids to a handful, and a small bomber stream would lead to limited dam- age. Spaatz decided to risk it all. On November 27, he picked a fight with the Luftwaffe. One thousand American bombers left England in two groups. The first was made up of 515 heavy bombers, escorted by 241 fighters. It raided mar- shalling yards in southern Germany. The second, composed of 460 planes, headed for oil centres in northern and central Germany. The idea was to trick the Germans into thinking that the fighter force was in fact bombers. It worked. The Luftwaffe attacked the fighter formation, leaving the bombers relatively unimpeded. The American fighters countered viciously. They shot down ninety-eight enemy fighters-double the average of the spring raids-at the cost of twelve of their own. As the reports of the November operation reached Spaatz, he wrote to Lovett with confidence. "In spite of the buildup of strength, the [Germans'] overall effectiveness has not increased. . . . [Recently], we have destroyed as much as 25% of [their] forces." All that was needed was a break in the weather, and the USSTAF could finally destroy the German fighter force. Three weeks before Spaatz rolled the dice, Portal was mulling over a reply to Harris. As he did so, the commander-in-chief bombed Homberg (twice), Ober- hausen, and Düsseldorf. The Düsseldorf raid finished the northern half of the city, destroying five thousand houses and ki