uld. As the same letter put it, "We have in the past, and will continue to do so in the future, directed our efforts toward pre- cision targets . . . We will not, at any time, direct our efforts toward area bomb- ing." On July 19, clear weather allowed a successful Eighth-Fifteenth precision raid on BMW. When precision bombing became blind bombing, the Ameri- cans asked-as they had asked since 1943-that history judge them on their intentions rather than on their results.81 On August 7, the British Joint Intelligence reported that the Germans had launched a vast program for repairing oil plants. Speer was trying to work his magic. Spaatz responded by redoubling his efforts. From late August to early September, Spaatz launched ten more attacks, seven of which were directed at oil. The Fifteenth flew thirteen missions against Balkan and German oil targets. One of the Fifteenth's missions was conducted on August 10, 1944. Walter Gilbert of the 450th Bomb Group, a bombardier, was just above the target,82 Flak sliced into engines #1 and #2, sheared off half of the rudder, damaged the nose and bomb bay, and mangled the left wing. It ripped through the floor, grazing the crew and injuring the co-pilot badly. To protect the other planes, the B-17 left the formation. As the fighters swept in for the kill, First Lieutenant Ver- non E. Mikkelson ordered his crew to bail out. Gilbert was immediately captured by Romanian and German troops, and taken to a military outpost where he rejoined the co-pilot and nose gunner. All, according to Gilbert, were well treated. For the rest of the month, Gilbert and the rest of the crew witnessed the American bombings from captivity. Two weeks later, in one particularly spectacular raid, the Eighth and the Fifteenth joined forces on August 24 for combined raids on synthetic oil plants. | 197 All oil production ceased, and the plant was occupied by the Soviets a few days later.83 As the Americans hammered oil targets, Speer urged a massive trans