ify any significant cities destroyed. The numbers speak for themselves. Looking at the whole war, one German study deliberately opts for a low estimate of German casualties: 400,000.12 Of these, it estimates that 75 percent were killed by the RAF, 25 percent by the USAAF. Another author concludes that the RAF killed hundreds of thousands, the USAAF tens of thousands.13 No one can know for certain, but the figures roughly track the official statistics. Over the course of the war, the RAF dropped 48 percent of its bombs on towns; the Eighth Air Force dropped somewhere between 6 and 13 percent (the lower figure includes bombs aimed at cities; the higher those that hit them anyway).14 From January 1942, 56 percent of Bomber Command sorties targeted city centres.15 One-half of Bomber Command's bomb  274 1 FIRE AND FURY Conclusion 1 load-some 500,000 tons of bombs-was dropped on heavily populated city centres. If Harris had had his way, the figure would have been a million tons. Harris himself bemoaned in 1945 "the fact that the U.S. bombers have taken no serious part in area attacks."16 Except for Berlin in 1945 (where different weather, defences, and street plans might have led to a firestorm), there is no Hamburg, Pforzheim, or Darmstadt that can be attributed to American bombing.17 The city the Americans bombed most was Vienna. Much of this was H2X bombing, 18 but the city came out of the war far more intact than comparable German cities. At Hamburg, the Americans-who tried to bomb the shipyards through the smoke created by the RAF attack-were responsible for less than 1 percent of the civilian casualties.19 Berlin excepted, American bombing of cities was viewed as a matter of last rather than first resort, and the city bombing that did occur lacked the eliminationist intent driving the RAF's campaign. Visit Vienna, visit Darmstadt. and compare. If Bomber Command killed three civilians for every one killed by the USAAF, it is incredible that observers suggest there wa