and some were naked. There was almost no fat left on their bodies, only burn wounds. Their tongues stuck out and hung down toward their necks. They lay where they fell and died. Rather than fresh air, the open door brought in billows of smoke. Screams echoed through the bunker, particularly from the children. Elfriede heard con- fused cries for help, and yet more victims entered the bunker. Someone called out, "Whoever can leave the bunker should do so now!" Elfriede climbed out, stepping over charred bodies. The view outside was extraordinary. She thought,  10 1 FIRE AND FURY The day Hamburg died Is bell like this? The smoke burning her eyes, she watched walls collapse, the wind and flames twist in a squall. The inferno was unstoppable. It tore through the street and up to the sky. Hydrants were uprooted. Burning debris was carried through the air. Elfriede recognized the old hot dog stand at the Berliner Tor, but it, too, was picked up and swept away. All around her, burning beams, planks, even parts of roofs, windows, and doors were carried through the flames, dust, and ash. Ernst-Günther and his mother emerged at approximately the same time. "The distant heavens," he later remarked, "were pitch black, but above us it glowed red. You could hear the awful screams of the injured. More and more came to us with burned and torn clothes; their bodies were covered in phosphorous burns. You could not tell whether clothes or skin were hanging from their bodies." Ernst- Günther recognized a neighbour who, stone-faced, walked toward them with two suitcases-one large, one small-in his hands. He opened them. In the big- ger one was a large object that looked like a charred tree trunk; in the other suit- case were two smaller, but otherwise identical objects. They were the charred remains of the neighbour's wife and children. Ernst-Günther and his mother sought to escape the heat in the underground railway tunnels beneath the Berliner Tor. From there they were taken by lorry t