body parts exploded outward in vast arcs in all directions. The house either collapsed or stood gutted. The shattered roofs, blown-out windows, and debris were manna for the incendiary bombs. Fires spread along the floors and walls, and out the windows. Very quickly, entire neighbourhoods were ablaze. It was, a RCAF aircrew later noted, "a volcano belching fire and smoke."17 As the pathfinders were coming in over the city, Hamburg's defences sprung into action. Searchlights came on, and the great flak guns began to fire. Ham- burg had among the most extensive air-raid defences in the Reich: fifty-four heavy flak batteries, twenty-six light ones, and twenty-two searchlights.18 But they were to no avail. Window was reaching the peak of its effectiveness. Radar controllers could provide no information on the incoming planes; searchlight operators flashed their lights randomly across the sky or pointed them directly upward, and the guns sprayed barrages of flak indiscriminately, in all directions and in none. Experienced pilots reaching the city could not believe it: they were not caught in searchlight cones, which all but promised death, and suffered no targeted bursts of flak. Imperial War Museum London The bombing of Hamburg occurred in six waves. The first five waves lasted eight minutes, during which more than a hundred planes dropped a line of bombs on Hamburg.19 Each high explosive was followed by a quick, violent flash and the delayed echo of the explosion. The 4000-pound bombs created a still larger, though slower, explosion. Between these flashes were thousands of twinkles, as  114 1 FIRE AND FURY incendiary bombs set the houses, clothes, cars, and in some cases people on fire. In the last wave, sixteen planes finished the raid at 1:50 A.M. Five minutes later a straggler, a main force Halifax that would no doubt have been brought down had German defences been operating, passed over the city and dropped its load Then, an intact bombing formation turned from the