e gave it up in favour of that most proletar ian means of transportation, the bus.3 Tizard also possessed a work ethic mor like that of an American entrepreneur than an English gentlemen. From 1920 Tizard had been rector at Imperial College, London, and he combined that posi tion with his civil service work. He would put in a full day at Whitehall and return to Imperial as late as midnight. He would then rouse the college secre- tary, G.C. Lowry, and work until 3 or 4 A.M. Then the whole thing would start again.4 In both committee and college, Tizard had the gift of making everyone- professors, students, bureaucrats, and office messengers-feel that their views were of enormous interest to him. On January 28, 1935, a committee, soon called the Tizard committee, met for the first time. Harry Egerton Wimperis, a scientist who had been research ing bombing since the 1930s and on whose suggestion the Tizard committee was initiated, made a startling announcement. A short time before, he had asked Robert Wattson-Watt, superintendent of the Radio Division of the National Physical Laboratory, to look into the possibility that a projected beam of electromagnetic radiation might destroy an aircraft. The hypothesis was a version of comic book fantasy-that laser beams shot at an airplane might penetrate it, killing the pilot and crew.5 Wattson-Watt dismissed the idea in a note a few days later, but he suggested another idea: that enough energy might be reflected from an aircraft, with radio field strengths that could be readily cre- ated, to create an echo that could be detected by a radio receiver on the ground. An excited Wimperis presented the idea to the committee, and it requested a full memorandum from Wattson-Watt. It arrived on February 12, and practi- cal tests were hastily arranged. From these tests, the committee concluded that if the time it took for a beam to return from an airplane was multiplied by the speed of the signal and divided by two, it was possible to fin