convinced disciple of the Trenchard school. For Trenchard, future wars would be won by bombers who brought the war directly to the enemy's cities, industries, and people. Harris left the college as a wing commander in 1929 and was posted to Egypt, where he did a tour of duty at Headquarters RAF Middle East in Cairo. While in the city in 1931, he gave an internal RAF lecture on bombing: "What is air bombing today but a rever- sion to the principle employed by the first intelligent ape, who gave up man handling and fights on the ground because he conceived the more adequate and less risky result be obtained by pitching a coconut down upon his adversary?" There is no record of the audience's reaction, but the script was sent back to London. It landed on the desk of an official at the Plans Branch of the Air Ministry: Charles Portal.2 Harris returned to England in 1932, completed a flying course, and took over command of a base and its resident squadron in west Wales in March 1933. Five months later, on August 11, he was told to report for duty at the Air Ministry. As Hitler became German chancellor, Harris was at the centre of power. There, he and two other Directors of Plans-Tom Phillips and Colonel Ronald Adam-drafted a 1937 document entitled "Appreciation of the Situation in the Event of War against Germany in 1939." It is often quoted for its exaggerated pre- diction of 150,000 casualties in the first week of a German air attack, but it got much else right: France might be unable to cope with an assault by Germany; developing Britain's industrial output and restricting that of Germany might well be decisive; and the intervention of the Soviet Union could decide the war. As Harris's biographer put it, they "succeeded in identifying two of the most crucial factors that were to lead to the defeat of Germany, the others being the protection of sea lanes . .. and the intervention of the USA."3 The report also argued that demoralizing the Germans by attacking their citie