to Harris. As he did so, the commander-in-chief bombed Homberg (twice), Ober- hausen, and Düsseldorf. The Düsseldorf raid finished the northern half of the city, destroying five thousand houses and killing some seven hundred people.24 On November 4, Portal wrote to Harris. He began with an apology. Referring to my enquiry of Ist November about the bombing of Cologne in preference to oil or the Ruhr . . . I do hope that you will not resent my  10 | FIRE AND Harris's and Spaatz's orders 1 asking for such information as I consider it necessary to enable me to explain, and if necessary defend, your decisions; and that you will not think that when I do so I am ipso facto exhibiting a lack of confidence in your direction of Bomber Command's operations. My own belief is that true mutual confidence can only exist on a basis of thorough mutual understanding and that the question of amour propre or "face" should be completely excluded. If you concede this, I would go on to say, at the risk of your dubbing me "another panacea merchant," that I believe the air offensive against oil gives us by far the best hope of victory in the next few months. It will be a terrific battle between destruction and repair and we cannot afford to give a single point away over and above the many that we shall be com- pelled to give away in direct support of the land offensive and in deference to the Admiralty's uneasiness about the coming U-Boat offensive. . . . [In this vein] I was very much worried about the German recovery in oil production in October. Portal then went on to reject each of the arguments offered by Harris to jus- tify his decision to bomb Cologne rather than oil. On bad weather: there was no difference between Cologne and the Ruhr. On cloud cover: this was true, but there were oil targets near Cologne that were ignored in favour of the city itself. On Cologne as a rail centre: true, but oil was more important than trans- port (here Portal was himself going against Strategic Dire