rl Kaufmann-the city's Gauleiter and a committed Nazi who had urged Hitler to deport Jews east after the first bombings-had to decide what to do. Hitler never visited Germany's ruined cities, but he had issued an order that they were not to be evacuated in the face of air raids. It was, how- ever, obvious that the Allies would not stop until they had obliterated Ham- burg. Kaufmann decided to disobey Hitler, and gave the order to evacuate. Loudspeakers relayed it across the city. Over the next forty-eight hours, 900,000 people-half of the city's 1933 population-left. Hundreds of thousands climbed onto wagons, pushed carts around the hills of bodies and rubble, or boarded ships in the Elbe. newspaper put it sixty years later, as if the heavens took pity on the razed city and said "enough." Three weeks after the attack, most of the area around the firestorm was still cordoned off. Rats and large cockroaches swarmed through the ruins. Some- how, Werner managed to get to the bunker at Stresowstrasse, 88. He found his father's hat, and his empty suitcase. He never saw his friends again. By the evening of July 29, almost all those who could leave Hamburg had done so. The city was empty, and on its knees. And once again, the bombers swept in at 1 A.M. Hamburg's defences had improved marginally over the raids (German defenders and searchlight operators co-operated more effectively, and ten RAF aircraft would be brought down), but radar was still hugely impaired. The RAF's targets that night were the districts of Rotherbaum, Harvestehude. Hoheluft, and Eppendorf, directly to the north of the city centre. They made up a beautiful, affluent residential neighbourhood. There was nothing of indus- trial worth there. That night, the weather came to the neighbourhood's aid: heavy winds blew the pathfinders east, over what was left of Billbrook. As the bombers came in from the north, creepback brought bombs to the as-yet- undamaged districts of Eilbek, Uhlenhorst, Winterhude, and Ba