" and suggested himself bombing the railway lines and the camps, "so as to destroy the plant used for gassing and cremation." Churchill replied on July 7, the following day. Negotiation was a non-starter: "On no account have the slightest negotiations, direct or indirect, with the Huns." Bombing, however, had the prime minister's support: "Get anything out of the Air Force that you can, and invoke me if necessary."25 The same day, Eden wrote to Sin- clair: "Both the Prime Minister and I are in agreement with [Weizmann's] suggestion that some- thing might be done to stop the operation of the death camps by (1) bombing the railway lines leading to Birkenau (and to other similar camps ... ); and (2) bomb- ing the camps themselves. .. . Could you let me know" Eden continued, "how the Air Ministry view the feasibility of these proposals. I very much hope that it will be possible to do something. I have the authority of the Prime Minister to say that he agrees."26 There were more than 300,000 Jews in Hungary. On July 11, the Jewish Agency intervened again, sending a note to Roosevelt urging the bombing of Auschwitz itself. Doing so would "give the lie to the oft-repeated assertions of Nazi spokesmen that the Allies are not really so dis- pleased [with] ridding Europe of Jews" and would "convince the German cir- cles still hopeful of Allied mercy of the genuineness of Allied condemnation of the murder of the Jews." 27 Eight days later, Sinclair replied with a cursory report stating that "bomb- ing is out of the possibility for Bomber Command, because the distance [from the UK to Upper Silesia] is too great for the attack to be carried out at night." | 187 Sinclair made no mention of the possibility of using the Fifteenth's bases in Italy. Even if they could, however, Sinclair suggested there wasn't much point: "Even if the plant was destroyed, I am not clear that it would really help the vic- tims." (Eden scribbled next to this: "He wasn't asked his opinion of this; he was