l A. Spaatz forcefully emphasized to the soon-to-become Secretary of the Air Force, W. Stuart Symington, that they must “obliterate” any opposition to the Air Force’s plans for the postwar defense establishment.2  The opposition that Spaatz was referring to was neither the Soviet Union nor any other external enemy to the United States. Instead, it was the United States Navy’s resistance to the unification of the armed services (that would allow for an independent Air Force) and the Navy’s challenge to the Air Force’s approach to strategic bombing. Retired Army General Hugh Drum summed up the problem best when he told Ferdinand Eberstadt, who was heading a Navy commission to ‘Spaatz to Symington, [1947], Box 4, Correspondence File, W. Stuart Symington Papers, (hereafter referred to as Symington Papers), Truman Library (underlining in original). 2 The AAF officially gained its independence and became the United States Air Force by the National Security Act of 1947. Since this chapters deals with the years preceding and following the National Security Act, for simplicity, I will use the term “Air Force,” throughout the chapter, even if I am referring to the AAF prior to the National Security Act. 173 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 183 --- study the unification of the armed services, that the “crux of the whole controversy” was the “Air.”3 The published reports produced by the United States Strategic Bombing Survey helped the Air Force and the Navy explain their conception of the “air” for the national defense establishment. Both services used the Survey during the armed services unification hearings, held at various times in 1946 and 1947, to argue either for, or against, an independent air force. In 1948, President Truman reduced the defense budget (for fiscal year 1950) to 13.7 billion dollars, resulting in the cancellation of production of the Navy’s cher