ispositions abatable to the Soviets in western Europe, constitutes a sound 39premise on which to select [targets] for strategic air operations.” The PINCHER plans and supporting intelligence estimates assumed that the Soviet Union did not pose an immediate military threat to Western Europe. According to these early postwar studies, the Soviet Union had a considerable conventional advantage over American, British, and French forces in Europe. But the studies also contended that the Soviets, for several years, would try to avoid a major conflict with the United States. If war did occur it would be due to “miscalculation” on the part of the Soviets toward “the risks involved” and would lead to a “war between the USSR on one side and the United States and the British Empire on the other.” The plans and intelligence estimates posited that once war began it would be “total” and fought to the fullest ability of America’s industrial might.4 0 In November 1947 the Joint Chiefs approved war plan BROILER. In certain ways BROILER was similar to PINCHER. Both plans relied heavily on an early strategic air campaign against the Soviet Union employing atomic bombs. Both saw the need for advanced bases to launch this air offensive. But whereas the PINCHER series assumed that the massive American force requirements to carry out the plan would be met, BROILER was premised on the current American forces available for war in 1948.4 1 3 9 Joint Staff Planners, “Staff Studies o f Certain Military Problems Deriving from Concept of Operations for Pincher, 13 April 1946,” in America's Plans fo r War, vol 2,  19, 20, 3 1, 32; Joint Intelligence Committee, “Strategic Vulnerability of the U.S.S.R. to a Limited Air Attack,” 3 November 1945, pp. 9-12, and Joint War Plans Committee, “Military Position o f the United States in the Light of Russian Policy, 8 January 1946,” in America’ s Plans fo r War, vol. 2,  20. 4 0 Ross, American War Plans,  6,7; Joint Staff Planners, “Concept of Operations Pinc