tile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 29 --- ACTS instructor Major Muir Fairchild, who later became the Chief of Plans for the Army Air Forces (AAF) in World War II, had refined the American conception o f air power in classes to officers at the Air Corps Tactical School. In a 1939 lecture to ACTS students titled “National Economic Structure,” Fairchild argued that there were two types of objectives to attack with strategic airpower: the morale of the people and the “national economic structure.” Fairchild acknowledged at the beginning o f the lecture that "it may well be possible for air attack directly on the civilian populace to destroy m orale- provided of course that the air force can strike soon enough and hard enough.” But Fairchild asked: “how hard, is hard enough?” To break the will, or morale, of an enemy nation, based on the limited experience with Japanese attacks on Chinese cities, was in the realm of an imponderable, asserted Fairchild. In fact attacking morale directly by killing people, as he put it, might have the effect of increasing “the morale of the nation as a whole.” Fairchild thus concluded that “for all of these reasons the School advocates an entirely different method of attack. This method, is the attack o f the National Economic Structure.” 2 4 When modem, industrialized nations fight wars, according to Fairchild, a nation had to possess “a highly organized and smoothly functioning economic system, to carry on 2 4 The Air Corps Tactical School, Course: Air Force “National Economic Structure,” (Instructor, Muir Fairchild), 1-3, 1939-1940, File 168.7001-31, AFHRA. Historian Ronald Schaffer in his important 1985 book Wings o f Judgment,  (30-33), implies that the thrust of Fairchild’s thirty-nine page lecture was on attacking civilian morale for psychological effects. But Fairchild acknowledged at the beginning o f the lecture that this was not the recommended method of the School. Schaffer, therefore, quotes Fairchild out of context in order to provid