ld be defeated without a land invasion. The plan listed aircraft production, urban industrial areas, and Japanese shipping as the most promising targets. Japanese “urban areas,” argued the Committee, should be bombed for “overall economic results.” A supporting study to the Committee’s report pointed out that “area incendiary raids” would “produce great economic loss, measured in man months of industrial labor...The direct loss they impose on war production is not inconsiderable.” Once the attacks on urban industrial areas had been completed, the Committee suggested that the AAF consider 1 2  Bond to Perera, 6 March 1944, History o f the COA, file 118.04-2, AFHRA. 109 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 119 --- “comprehensive attacks designed to reduce food supplies” as a means “of weakening the Japanese will to resist.”1 3 The COA ended its work as a target selection and evaluation agency in October 1944. The AAF had established operations analysts sections in the major American bomber commands in Europe, and the final air strategy for Europe had been set which meant that the services o f the COA were no longer required.1 4  But the Joint Chiefs of Staff determined that they needed another target agency for the air campaign in the Pacific. The problem for the Chiefs was that were at least six agencies, but with no centralized control, that made contributions to target analysis. The result was a lack of coordination between these agencies over Far Eastern target selection. The Joint Target Group was established by the Joint Chiefs in the fall of 1944. The Group relieved other agencies like the COA “of target analysis functions as it absorbe[d] personnel from them.” The JTG would be responsible to the Chiefs for target analysis in the Pacific theater and would also provide information to the operating commands. The Chiefs instructed the JTG to use the “European