center of debate between the Air Force and the Navy. In a November 1946 speech to the Air Force Association, General Doolittle wondered why the United States needed “two air forces any more than we need two armies or two navies.” He further stated that: “Ail land based planes must be under one command in order to achieve not only the most economical air power possible, but the most effective 1 0  Testimony by General James A. Doolittle, Senate Committee On Military Affairs, Department o f Armed Forces, Department o f Military Security,  9 November 1945, 290, 295. 177 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 187 --- air power possible.” That “command” noted Doolittle, would be an independent American Air Force.1 1  General Spaatz insisted to the Joint Chiefs that the Air Force should subsume all naval land-based aviation.1 2  The Navy’s budget for 1947 concerned Secretary Symington because of the Navy’s demand for “land based planes to protect their ships....” Symington reminded President Truman that the Navy’s request was “millions of dollars more than the Air Force’s [for] the purchase of airplanes.” Land based air, according to Symington, was the responsibility of the Air Force.1 3  Many airmen came to believe that the Navy’s effort to maintain its land-based airplanes indicated a desire on the Navy’s part to take away the strategic bombing mission from the Air Force. General Ira Eaker noted to Symington in April 1946 that the Navy was offering Air Force B-29 pilots regular commissions in the Navy, proving to Eaker “the 14Navy’s intention to build up strategic bombing.” In the summer of 1946, President Truman caused great concern among navy officers by sending to the Secretaries of War and Navy a memorandum arguing that naval reconnaissance and anti-submarine warfare should be performed by airmen. They sensed that the President’s memorandum was an indication of “