in a most significant way.”7 2 The Transportation Division, which was under the Directorship of George Ball, published its final report, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on German Transportation , in September 1945. That report reiterated the conclusions that Nitze and Ball had presented to AAF leaders in June and July. The report lamented the fact that the AAF did not apply the full weight o f strategic bombers against German transportation until after the Normandy invasion, but it had still “so paralyzed the German industrial economy as to 73render all further heavy war production virtually impossible.” Looking around from the inside at the effects of strategic bombing on Germany, Survey analysts comfortably accepted the conclusion that transportation, oil production, and electric power were critical industries for the German war economy. V The Analytical Divisions of the Survey had completed their final reports by August 1945 and forwarded them to the Chairman’s Office to write the important Over-all Report ,74 When John Galbraith and the other Directors arrived back in Washington D.C. in September they discovered, according to Galbraith, that the Survey Secretariat, Judge Charles Cabot, had prepared an “unsatisfactory” draft of the Chairman’s Over-all Report which placed unwarranted praise on the AAF’s wartime accomplishments while 7 2  D’Olier to Alexander, 14 July 1945, and. Office of the Chairman, “Japanese Targets,” 5 July 1945, Box 41, file 383.8, RG 243, NA. 7 3  USSBS, Transportation Division, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on German Transportation , (Washington, D.C.: USGPO, 20 November 1945), 8. 7 4  Beveridge, History o f the United States Strategic Bombing Survey,  225. 93 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 103 --- dismissing its failures.7 3  The Directors had understood from the beginning that the Chairman’s Office would produce a final r