eventive war. In a lecture to the Air War College two years after Anderson’s relief, Brodie referred to “preventive war” as an “alternative strategy to be considered, and [he blamed his] social science colleagues for the fact that they have turned their faces away from any 91consideration of this problem.” 9 1  Bernard Brodie, “Changing Capabilities and War Objectives,” 17 April 1952, Lecture to the Air War College, Box 12, Bernard Brodie Papers (hereafter referred to as Brodie Papers), University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Special Collections; also see, Bernard Brodie, “Possible U.S. Military Strategies,” 1 1 October 1954, (The RAND Corporation), Box 13, Brodie Papers, UCLA Special Collections; and, Bernard Brodie, “The Atomic Bomb and American Security,” 1  November 1945, (unpublished essay for Yale University), Box 11, Brodie Papers, UCLA Special Collections. 215 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 225 --- EPILOGUE In the years following the end of World War II, Bernard Brodie and other analysts read, and often used, many of the Survey’s conclusions in their postwar writings on military strategy, defense policy and organization, and in the debate over President Truman’s decision to use the atomic bomb against Japan. The staggering amount of published reports and studies by the Survey on strategic bombing in World War II provided postwar analysts with a wealth of conclusions to support their wide-ranging arguments. In his 1946 book, The Absolute Weapon , Bernard Brodie argued that atomic bombs had revolutionized warfare. Brodie contended that any future war with the Soviets would not be fought in a way similar to the great land battles of World War II. Instead, Brodie saw the next major war being fought primarily, and decisively, with atomic bombs.1 Partly because Brodie believed that atomic weapons had changed the way wars in the future would be foug