ether or not it was better for strategic bombers to attack “narrow” or “broad” segments of the enemy’s “productive capabilities.” General Samford insisted that it was the JTG’s belief that if the AAF used precision attacks against a “narrow segment” like ball-bearings, the enemy “could probably escape and survive...” But using strategic bombers to attack a wide area of the enemy’s war capacity like “ball-bearings, transportation, oil, end-products, basic equipment, basic processing industries, and raw materials” would give the enemy “no possibility of escape,” according to the General. Nitze then restated the Survey’s position by pointing out to Samford that the testimony of Speer and the other German officials were in “direct opposition” to the 3 1  See note #93 in Chapter Three. 3 2  JTG/USSBS Conference. 3 3  Conference Questions; JTG/USSBS Conference, 1. 3 4  JTG/USSBS Conference, 1. 118 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 128 --- JTG’s “principle.”3 5  For Nitze and his fellow Survey Directors, the decisive method and objective for strategic bombers were precision attacks against the “basic segments” of the enemy’s war-making capacity. Paul Nitze, during the 9 June conference with the JTG, displayed his penchant for counterfactual speculation when evaluating the effects of strategic bombing. Trying to understand the relationship between discrete industries in the overall German war economy, the JTG asked if the “rates of recovery of particular industries [were] importantly affected by attack[s] on other target categories.” The question allowed Nitze to demonstrate, counterfactually, the Survey’s belief that a strategic bombing attack on the German electric power system would have had a crippling effect on the overall German war economy. Nitze stated that “if there was a target system which we had not attacked on a concentrated systematic basis which might