uded General J.W. Stilwell, General Albert Wedemeyer, and Admiral D.S. Parsons as special advisors.7 6  The evaluation team which Ofstie served on released their final report to the Joint Chiefs on 29 December 1947. The report concluded that atomic bombs, used in conjunction with other weapons of mass destruction such as biological and chemical weapons, would “depopulate vast areas of the earth’s surface, leaving only vestigial remnants of man’s material works.” Since an enemy nation in the possession of such weapons could launch a surprise attack on the United States, the report stated that America needed to revise its “traditional attitudes toward what constitutes acts of aggression so that our armed forces may plan and operate in accordance with the realities of atomic warfare. Our attitude of national defense must provide for the employment of every practical means to prevent surprise attack. Offensive measures will be the only generally effective means of defense, and the United States must be prepared to employ them before a potential enemy can inflict significant damage upon us.”7 7 7 6  For an analysis of the Bikini Tests see Jonathan M. Weisgall, Operation Crossroads: The Atomic Tests at Bikini Atoll,  (Annapolis: Naval Institute Press, 1994). ^Joint Chiefs o f Staff, “The Final Report of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Evaluation Board for Operation Crossroads, 29 December 1947,” in America's Plans for War, vol 9,  110,111. 208 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 218 --- When reviewing the report’s findings, the respective members of the Joint Chiefs of 78Staff disagreed over a number of its conclusions. The issue over which service would have primary control over atomic weapon development brought about sharp debate. But there was no disagreement among the service Chiefs over the recommendation that the President should consider reorienting national milita