r II  (New York: The Free Press, 1995), 310; Gian P. Gentile, “A-Bombs, Budgets, and Morality: Using the Strategic Bombing Survey,” Air Power History  (Spring 1997), 20-31. 1 0 4  David R. Mets, Master o f Airpower: General Carl A. Spaatz  (Novato: Presidio Press, 1988), 308-309. 1 02 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 112 --- evaluation of Allied air power against Germany confirmed the soundness of the American concept toward strategic bombing, just what the airmen had intended it to do. 103 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 113 --- CHAPTER 4 SHAPING THE PRESENT BATTLEFIELD GENERAL NORSTAD: Under the Circumstances that existed in Germany, the enemy’ s capacity to resist would have been weakened by oil alone or transportation or by the combination o f both to a point where he had to quit? MR. ALEXANDER: O f course when you say "have to quit[, ]  ”  decisive doesn ’ t mean that completely. There were still men standing in bushes with rifles that had to be disposed of..It does not necessarily mean that every soldier would have to put down his gun and go home. Conference Between Members of the Joint Target Group (JTG) and the Strategic Bombing Survey, 9 June 1945.1 Following the publication of the Chairman’s European Summary Report  and Overall Report , Henry Alexander held a press conference at the Pentagon on 24 October 1945 to pass out copies of both studies and to answer questions from newspaper reporters about the Survey. During the conference Alexander fielded a question on the “relative effectiveness of saturation; i.e. area bombing as against more accurate [precision] bombing.” Alexander, restating the Survey’s conclusions concerning area attacks against German cities, responded that the most effective method for destroying the productive capacit