5, Box 27, file 319.1, RG 243, NA. Around the same time that Nitze was writing the Survey’s alternate bombing plan, Major General Claire Chennault, commander of the Fourteenth Air Force in the Pacific, suggested to LeMay “one last scheme for giving pain to the Jap.” Chennault, like Nitze, recommended that the AAF bomb Japanese “rice paddies” with some sort of insecticide; see Chennault to LeMay, 9 July 1945, Box 11, LeMay Papers, Library o f Congress. 5 1  “Japanese Targets,” 5 July 1945 (revised in London on 1  August 1945), Box 41, file 383.8, RG 243, NA. 130 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 140 --- The above passage from the Survey's plan clearly demonstrated Nitze’s view that area and precision attacks were different methods for the AAF to bomb Japanese war-making capacity. According to Nitze’s plan, the most effective way to destroy Japanese “end products” (the JTG’s primary concern) was by precision attacks against Japanese transportation that linked together the factories that produced war material. However, Nitze cautioned that for the recommended bombing program to be decisive, it would “take time.”6 2 The JTG disagreed with certain parts of Nitze’s plan. They placed greater emphasis on continuing the XXI Bomber Command’s area attacks against Japanese cities to destroy “identified concentrations of end product industries and stores, including ammunition storage.” The Group believed that the targets contained in these “concentrations” were “highly vulnerable to incendiary attacks.” The purpose of the raids, argued the JTG, was to destroy by fire large quantities of war material produced and being produced...thereby creating expenditures over which the Japanese cannot exercise control.”6 3  The JTG’s reliance on area raids to destroy Japanese end products reflected their belief that strategic bombing should be directed at ultimately preparing the way