albraith, 13 October 1949, Box 165, Paul H. Nitze Papers (hereafter referred to as Nitze Papers), Library of Congress. 6 8  Hamilton Dearborn, “Orientation— Introductory Lecture,” 15 December 1944, Box 40, file 353.02, RG 243, NA. Arguably, Douhet and Mitchell had established a theory of air power that underpinned the American approach to strategic bombing which Dearborn failed to recognize in his lecture to Survey members. 6 9  Walter Rostow, “The History of Strategic Bombing,” 18 December 1944; Dr. Barger, “Damage Caused by Strategic Bombing,” 19 December 1944, Box 389, Stevenson Papers, Princeton University Archives. 67 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 77 --- set yourself to do a maximum of physical damage of all sorts...an area raid is designed to destroy general enemy resources to the maximum extent, and it is for this reason that the center part [of the city] chosen is somewhere where fire will take hold and bum o f itself.” Another lecturer argued that: “the main physical effect of area bombing is the destruction of dwellings, but there is also an economic effect because the workers in these dwellings will be kept away from work in factories because they have to settle somewhere else.”7 0 Believing in the American approach toward strategic bombing and prepared to carry out their evaluation within that conceptual framework, Survey analysts were ready to begin the work that would lay the theoretical groundwork for air power. From March to November 1944, the AAF had played an important part in establishing the parameters within which the Survey would conduct its evaluation. The AAF had taken great steps to insure that the Survey’s conclusions would be “sound and substantiated,” especially for the future independence of the air service.7 1 7 0  Ibid., T. Dennis, “Lecture on the Economic Effect of Air Attacks,” 20 December 1944, Box 389, Stevenson Papers,