f Staff, called for “a prompt strategic air 3 5  Memo for Symington, 19 October 1948, Box 4, Symington Papers, Truman Library. 3 6  “Extracted From Remarks by Rear Admiral Ofstie Before the Metropolitan Section of Aviation Writers Association...” 30 June 1948, Box 9, Symington Papers, Truman Library; also see D.V. Gallery, “Don’t Damn the Carriers: The U.S. is Building a Giant, Floating Airstrip for Atom Age War,” Science Illustrated , (February 1949), 21. 188 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 198 --- offensive” that would “destroy the Soviet war-making capacity.” In the war plans written between 1945 and 1950, the atomic bomb would be a critical component o f that air offensive because the United States held sole ownership (until the Soviets exploded their first atomic bomb in August, 1949) of atomic weapons which produced, according to the planners, a “distinct advantage” over the Soviet Union.3 7  War with the USSR, according to the plans, would be “total” and would involve the industrial power of both nations. In order for the United States to destroy the Soviet will to resist it would first have to 38destroy the “effectiveness of her [the Soviet Union’s] war-machine.” The first plans written in early 1946 for a potential war against the Soviet Union— the PINCHER plans— placed a heavy reliance on attacking Soviet industrial systems such as transportation, petroleum production, tank factories, ball bearing plants, and other war industry. The PINCHER plans noted that most of these Soviet industries were located in major urban areas, therefore requiring a strategic bombing campaign that would attack Soviet cities. Urban areas, according to PINCHER, “would remain highly important for very long range air operations. The industrial structure...together with the known 3 7  It is interesting to note that while war planners relied so heavily on atomic bombs for a