copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 15 --- postwar crusade for an independent air force. The airmen knew that a civilian-led evaluation of the effects of strategic bombing against Germany could be very helpful in their upcoming postwar fight for independence.6  Such an evaluation could provide the evidentiary base for proving the effectiveness of American strategic air power in World War II. As a result, the airmen took deliberate steps to shape the questions that the Survey would ask concerning the effectiveness of American air power against Germany. The evaluation methodology that Survey Directors like John Kenneth Galbraith devised, and the published reports produced by the European portion of the Survey, reflected the American emphasis on using strategic bombers to destroy the “vital elements” of the enemy’s war-making capacity. For example, Survey analysts believed that the effects of strategic bombing on the morale of the German people were only important insofar as lowered morale may have reduced the productive capacity of the German industrial labor force. Moreover, many of the European Survey’s published reports argued that American air power was “decisive” against Germany because it destroyed transportation facilities, which were “vital elements” that linked together many important industries in Germany’s wartime economy. Generals Carl A. Spaatz and Orvil Anderson believed that the European Survey’s published reports confirmed the correctness of the American conceptual approach to 6  For another account of the Survey written by an air force officer, see Frank C. Watson, “United States Strategic Bombing Survey, A Look to the Future,” (A Research Report Submitted to the Air War College Faculty, Air University), February 1983 (Available at the Maxwell Air Force Base Library). Watson wrote this paper as a student at the Air War College. His advisor, ironically, was David Maclsaac. Watson