ndard Operating Procedures for Field Operations of Survey Teams— Area Studies Division,” undated, Box 16, file 300.6, RG 243, NA. 1 4  Office o f the Chairman, “Method and Sources of Data for Overall Economic Survey,” 31 January 1945, Box 14, file 300.6, RG 243, NA (italics mine). 1 5  USSBS, Chairman’s Office, Summary Report (Pacific War),  26. The Pacific portion of the Survey and Nitze’s early-surrender counterfactual will be discussed in chapter five. 74 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 84 --- events, were embedded in the American conceptual approach to strategic bombing, and the United States Strategic Bombing Survey had its evaluation methodology and conclusions shaped by that conception. Germany’s surrender in May allowed Survey field teams to move freely within the Allied occupation zone.1 6  Consequently, more and more evidence was piling up on the desks of the Division Directors, who were starting to feel pressure from the Chairman’s Office to produce tentative conclusions on the effects of strategic bombing.1 7  The Directors had come to realize that to analyze the data and produce conclusions the Survey could not only rely on statistical evidence.1 8  Interrogations o f key German officials, therefore, became a crucial element in the European Survey’s methodology. Undoubtedly, the most important German official interrogated during the European Survey was Albert Speer, Hitler’s wartime economic minister. The Survey questioned him at Flensburg, Germany at the end of May, shortly after the collapse of the Doenitz government. George Ball recalls that Speer gave the Survey “detailed information for which our field teams had been searching and which our analysts had been painfully trying to piece together out of bits and pieces of fact, gossip, and rumor.” After the Survey had spent months sifting through production records and other related documents