, 95and conclusion.” Paul Nitze soon learned how Air Campaigns  came to be published as an official Survey report. Nitze told the Deputy Chief o f Naval Operations, Admiral Forrest Sherman, that he had no idea that Air Campaigns  was being published under the auspices of the Survey until it had been released by the Government Printing Office and subsequently brought to his attention. Nitze, at that point, telephoned D’Olier for an explanation. D’Olier informed Nitze that he himself had reversed Nitze’s decision in the Spring not to publish Air Campaign’ s.  D’Olier said he had informed Nitze of his decision to allow the publication of Air Campaigns,  because of D’Olier’s “desire to save [Nitze] embarrassment.”9 6 VI Franklin D’Olier was partial to having the postwar defense establishment built around air power and an independent air force. As a former national commander of the American Legion, D’Olier sent copies of the European and Pacific Summary Reports  to all of the 48 state commanders of the Legion. He agreed with Harvard law professor and erstwhile COA member W. Barton Leach, that the Survey was the most “persuasive” argument made yet “of the national requirement for air power” and that it be given the widest 97distribution possible. He also understood the influence the Survey was having, and would continue to have, on the reorganization of the defense establishment. In late July 9 5  Forrestal to D’Oiier, 15 September 1947; and, Forrestal to Symington, [September 1947], Box 8, special USSBS folder, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 9 6  Nitze to Sherman, 16 September 1947, Box 8, special USSBS folder, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 9 7  D’Olier to Nitze, 19 September 1946; and, Leach to Nitze, 28 August 1946, Box 165, Nitze Papers, Library of Congress. 171 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 181 --- 1947, as the Government Printing Offic