f Japanese cities to strategic bombing as early as the Fall of 1943. Both agencies had refined their thinking on the most effective bombing methods and objectives for the AAF in its strategic air campaign against Japan. Survey Directors, too, based on their findings from Europe, believed that they had determined the proper methods and objectives for strategic bombers. There were competing beliefs, therefore, over the best methods for using air power against Japan. The question o f whether or not American strategic bombing combined with a naval blockade could force Japan to surrender without a land invasion shaped these competing visions. During their visit to Washington D.C. in June, the Survey Directors demonstrated to senior military and political leaders a sophisticated understanding of the effects of strategic bombing on Germany, and, in general, of air power theory and practice. As a result, the Survey was directed to write its own alternate bombardment plan for the defeat 3  Beverdige, History o f the United States Strategic Bombing Survey , 115-119. 105 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 115 --- of Japan. Paul Nitze completed the plan in July 1945. General Spaatz, the newly designated commander of the United States Army Strategic Air Forces and a devout advocate of precision bombing, took that plan to the Pacific with him in late July. He intended to implement it. I The Committee of Operations Analysts had submitted an initial report back in the fall of 1943 on the most effective method for American strategic bombers to damage Japanese war production.4  That preliminary study by the Committee recommended that the AAF bomb Japanese merchant shipping and coke production. Because the Japanese economy was different from Germany’s in that Japan’s represented “an island industrial core which derive[d] its material largely from overseas,” an attack against sh