her reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 65 --- Framing the questions that the Survey would answer and then setting up an organizational structure for the Survey designed to answer those questions would indeed influence its conclusions (Consider the markedly different approach that General Arnold took when he allowed the Committee o f Historians to evaluate the effects of strategic bombing without an established organization for its analysis). But as General Arnold acknowledged in his memorandum to the President, the future of the AAP was bound up in the Survey’s results, and therefore had to have a strong aura of impartiality by having it headed by civilians. The airmen did not have to resolve this dilemma of impartiality because they never wanted the Survey to question the relevance of strategic bombing to military strategy. Survey Director George Ball, in his memoirs, confirmed that the Survey’s “frame of reference” was to limit itself to studying the effect of the American “air offensive on the 3 0Germany economy.” Paul Nitze would later point out that his and the Survey’s task in regard to strategic bombing “was to measure precisely the physical effects and other effects as well, to put calipers on it...I was trying to put quantitative numbers on something that was considered immeasurable.”3 9  The Survey would be able to make imponderables ponderable by limiting its analysis to the effectiveness of strategic bombing against German war-making capacity, exactly what the airmen wanted. 3 S George W. Ball, The Past Has Another Pattern: Memoirs  (New York: W.W. Norton and Company, 1983), 55. 3 9  Quote taken from Talbott, Master o f the Game,  37. Although Talbott’s analysis of Nitze provides some useful insights it is documented very poorly, making it difficult to determine exact references. This quote Talbott most likely took from a postwar interview of Nitze by the U.S. Air Force Oral History Interview, Albert F. S