the AAF still achieved its objective of gaining command of the air by defeating the German Luftwafe in aerial battle. This, according to Anderson in classic Douhet fashion, allowed the AAF “to exploit that air freedom for further attacks against the over-all enemy war machine.”9 3 Anderson confirmed that destroying Germany’s war-making capacity was the primary objective of the AAF. That “war machine,” argued Anderson: 9 4  Interview with Major General Orvil Anderson by Historical Section, USTAAF (Interviewer: Sgt. Law), 22 August 1945 (hereafter referred to as Anderson Interview, 22 August 1945), 3, 16, file 168.7006-2, AFHRA. For a scholarly biography of Anderson written by an Air Force historian see, John Henry Scrivner, Jr., “Pioneer Into Space: A Biography of Major General Orvil Arson Anderson,” Ph.D. dissertation, University o f Oklahoma, 1971. 9 5  Ibid., 9. 99 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 109 --- “represents the entire enemy nation, its overall economy. It is rather fallacious for us to reason that the economy divides itself into a war economy and a sustaining civil economy, because in a three-dimensional war that is not sound. It is all war economy... Therefore you attack the enemy war machine when you attack any of its structure, because it is all military.” The General’s interviewer then posited that certain attacks were more effective than others in damaging Germany’s war economy and asked what conclusions the Survey had reached in that regard. Anderson explained that when attacking a “worthy” opponent’s war making capacity, “you go as far back toward his basic industries as your capabilities will carry you to get to the big heavy, meaty, war targets.” Cautioning against relying on historical examples too much, Anderson said that there was no set pattern to follow when attacking the enemy’s basic industries. But the Survey had concluded corre