dered it essential that the AAF use strategic bombing operations to limit “replacements in certain weapons and materials of war essential to the defense of the Japanese homeland.” General Samford noted that the “dispersal of small industry throughout congested urban industrial areas [was] of such a high order that this dispersed industry alone, if undeterred, could provide an increasingly significant volume of defense material.” These industrial areas were “highly vulnerable to incendiary attacks.” The estimate also recommended that the AAF use precision attacks to destroy aircraft engine factories, weapons and ammunition arsenals, electronic plants, and thermal electric power facilities on Kyushu. The intended purpose for these different methods of attack were to lessen the Japanese ability to defend the home islands against an American land invasion.1 7 A February 1945 general analysis by the Group stated its “concept of area attacks:” “Area attacks, interpreted as attacks directed at concentrations of diversified industrial/military facilities and/or housing, are effective primarily in terms of the relatively large amount of physical damage and production loss which they impose. Maximum loss will result from successful attacks against target areas which combine 1 6  Joint Intelligence Committee 152/2, “Optimum Use, Timing, and Deployment of V.L.R. Bombers in the War Against Japan,” 18 January 1944, Box 115, Geographic File Japan, Record Group 218, Joint Chiefs of Staff (hereafter referred to as RG 218), NA; Grace Person Hayes, The History o f the Joint Chiefs o f Staff in World War II: The War Against Japan  (Annapolis: Naval Institute Press, 1982), 702-703; Futrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine , 163. 1 7  John A. Samford, “JTG Estimate No. 1: Strategic Air Deployment Suitable to the Current Strategy of the Japanese War,” 23 December 1944, file 142.6602-1; and. Joint Target Group, “Selected Target Clusters Suitable As Alternative Targets For Area Bombing,” 30 Decem