d of the link between directly attacking the Soviet people and the possible breakdown of 10Soviet will to resist. The planners realized that strategic bombing against Soviet cities would kill millions of Soviet noncombatants. Their conception of modem warfare, tied to a deep rooted understanding of a modem industrialized society, however, caused them to view the application of strategic airpower in a war with the Soviets as a method of destroying the Soviet Union’s war-making capacity. The planners themselves summed this concept up best in Crankshaft when explaining the probable effects of strategic air attacks against Soviet industrial areas: CRANKSHAFT pointed out that such attacks would critically impair the Soviet’s ability to make war by decimating “the major portion of the skilled 4 7 lbid., 145-149. 4 *Ibid„ 145. 193 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 203 --- labor, technicians, and scientific workers available to the Soviets, the loss of which would reduce their industrial capabilities greatly.’ There was a marked similarity between CRANKSHAFT’S  treatment of killing “skilled labor” and the Strategic Bombing Survey’s European and Pacific reports on the effects of strategic bombing on the morale of the industrial labor force. The CRANKSHAFT planners and the Survey analysts who wrote the reports on morale shared the same conception of strategic bombing: to view the killing and injuring of civilians by strategic bombing in terms primarily of war production, not morale. An industrial labor force that was killed or maimed by strategic bombers could not go to the factories and produce industrial goods that fueled the enemy’s “war machine.” In May 1949, the Joint Chiefs released the Harmon Report which analyzed the probable effects o f a strategic air campaign that used atomic bombs against seventy Soviet cities. The report was named after its head, Lieutena