aywood S. Hansell Jr., Strategic Air War Against Japan  (Washington, D.C.: USGPO, 1980), 30-32. 1 2  Memo for Brigadier General Giles from Perera o f the COA, “Progress Report,” 24 September 1943, History of the COA, 118.01, AFHRA; Hansell to Anderson, 15 April 1944, Box 25, Earle Papers, Princeton University Archives; Perera, Leaves from  My Book o f Life,  108, 115; Schaffer, Wings o f Judgment,  121-122. 44 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 54 --- evaluations and sifting of evidence that will be necessary for the formulation of future Air Force doctrine.” In this way, General Kilter noted to Spaatz, the airmen could present their case for establishing the Survey as an important operational requirement for fighting Japan and would avoid “lengthy debate along abstract lines.” * 3 By referring to the “question” of postwar air force doctrine, and the desire to avoid debate along “abstract lines,” Kuter implicitly recognized the potential for controversy over the application of Survey results. He knew that if the AAF presented the Survey primarily as a way to establish the need for postwar independence it could lose its sense of wartime urgency for application against Japan, bringing criticism by the Army, and especially the Navy, for being fixated with the future o f the air force rather than the more immediate concern of victory. Other airmen understood like General Kuter that the controlling reason for creating the Survey would be to use its results for the future of the air force. General Anderson told General Spaatz that the Survey’s results “might well prove to be the foundation of our future doctrine on the employment of air power.” Spaatz, using the same language as Anderson, told Arnold that the Survey would have a profound influence on the “future employment of air power.” Arnold agreed with Spaatz, and by June had recognized the “ever increasing imp