6], USSBS Records, Microfilm # 1655, Roll 1, frames 1556, 1562, 1569. Anderson’s name does not appear on this draft, but he almost certainly wrote it. The draft closely resembles a handwritten draft of a Survey report found in the Anderson Papers (see note #20 above). Also, throughout his career, Anderson used recognizable terms such as “echelon” and “dominating” that appear in this Survey draft. The style and 147 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 157 --- Admiral Ralph A. Ofstie, Director of the Pacific Survey’s Naval Analysis Division, recalled that the Survey’s Secretariat Walter Wilds (who replaced Judge Cabot in the Pacific) believed that all of the Survey Directors were “convinced of the desirability of setting up a separate air establishment.” Yet for his part, Ofstie “expressed difficulty in understanding how the Survey had arrived at its [impartial] conclusions relative to a separate air department particularly when it so exactly coincided with Air Force proposals.” 3 4  Ofstie did everything he could to move Nitze and other Survey Directors away from what he called the Air Force’s “party line” and toward the postwar interests of the Navy.3 5  Those interests did not embrace an independent air force, because an independent air force could possibly subsume the Navy’s carrier-based aircraft. Ofstie was unhappy with some of the conclusions and recommendations of an April draft of the Summary Report  that Nitze had written. The draft pointed out in a section on “the impact of the atomic bombs on the role of airpower,” that the bombs “raised the destructive power of a single bomber or guided missile” by a huge factor. Ofstie commented on the draft’s margin that he had “never heard” o f employing atomic bombs on “guided missiles.”3 6  He later recalled that exploring the potential use of “guided missiles” was not within “the purview of the Survey.”3 7  Ofs