cter o f “General Jack D. Ripper,” who on his own volition initiates a preventive war against the Soviet Union, in Stanley Kubrick’s brilliant 1964 satire of American nuclear strategy, “Dr. Strangelove.”8 6 The Anderson interview was in fact a very accurate representation of the General’s view of air power strategy and his deeply felt belief that the United States should launch a surprise attack on the Soviet Union to prevent it from attacking the United States first. But for stating those beliefs on strategy and preventive war in a public forum, Air Force Chief of Staff, General Hoyt Vandenberg, relieved Orvil Arson Anderson from his post as President of the Air University. Even though a good number of other military officers 8 5  Allen Rankin, “U.S. Could Wipe Out Red A-Nests in Week, Gen. Anderson Asserts,” 1  September 1950, Montgomery Advertiser.  Allan Rankin, the author of the article that contained Anderson’s interview, was reporting on another article by syndicated journalist Drew Pearson that was critical of Anderson’s Air University for purportedly teaching preventive war to its students. Pearson’s article had appeared in a number of newspapers across the country including the Washington Post  on 31 August 1950. At the AFHRA (file 168.7006-3, Anderson Papers) there is a complete file on the relief of General Anderson in September 1950. The file contains statements made by the General in response to being removed from his post, along with many newspapers articles reporting on the General’s relief. The complete title is, “Dr. Strangelove Or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb;” For a good scholarly analysis of “Dr. Strangelove,” that places it in historical context see, Charles Maland, “‘Dr. Strangelove’ (1964): Nightmare Comedy and the Ideology of Liberal Consensus,” in Hollywood as Historian: American Film in Cultural Context,  ed., Peter C. Rallins (Lexington: University of Kentucky Press, 1983), 190-210. 212 Reproduced with permission of t