Army Air Force should be granted independent status within a unified defense establishment because it was the service best suited to carry out the revolutionary methods o f strategic air warfare. To support his position, General Norstad used the concluding passage from the Pacific Survey Summary Report  that called for, “in addition to the Army and Navy...an equal and coordinate position for a third establishment.”1 6 Yet a Naval officer, who testified to the Committee shortly after General Norstad, raised some troubling questions about pressure put on some Survey authors to reach conclusions claiming the decisiveness of strategic bombing in World War II and the need for a postwar independent Air Force. The Pacific Survey’s Naval Analysis Division Director, Admiral Ofstie, told the Committee about his frustrating experience with the writing of the Pacific Survey Summary Report.  He provided draft versions of the Pacific 1 6  Testimony by Major General Lauris Norstad, House Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Department, National Security o f 1947,  80th Cong., 1st Sess., 2 May 1947, 198-199,208. USSBS, Summary Report (Pacific War),  32. 179 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 189 --- Survey Summary Report  that showed the gradual shift from concluding that an independent air force was not desirable to the published report’s implicit call for a co­ equal air arm.1 7  The draft versions disclosed by Admiral Ofstie demonstrated to the Committee the partial, not impartial, nature o f Survey conclusions. Military officers were not the only ones relying on Survey reports to support their positions in the unification debates. Representative W J. Dom of the House Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Department obtained a number of unpublished Survey interrogations of key Japanese and German military and political leaders. The Congressman provided a litany