f area bombing on German 12! Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 131 --- morale. Norstad suggested to Anderson and Ball that “there was probably a certain amount of hysteria connected with [the area raids.]”4 0  “Hysteria” for Norstad clearly meant the ability of the RAF’s area raids on cities like Hamburg to cause terror among the civilian population. But because Ball framed his analysis of area attacks on German war making capacity and not morale, he easily moved the discussion back to the economic effects of area bombing and Hamburg’s “surprisingly fast recuperation.”4 1 Morale as an objective for strategic bombing was simply not an important topic for discussion during the day long conference between the JTG and Survey Directors. Some historians have either misread the entire transcript for the 9 June conference or failed to read it at all. The conference has been portrayed, incorrectly, as a debate between the JTG’s purported emphasis on using the XXI Bomber Command’s fire raids to attack Japanese morale and the Survey’s purported attempt to have the AAF halt the fire raids, stop attacking morale, and bomb “basic industries” like electric power and transportation 4 2  But if the central issue of debate between the JTG and Survey members was over the effects of strategic bombing on morale then one would have expected it to take up much more time at the conference. The conferees spent the entire day on 9 June discussing the effects of strategic bombing, resulting in a 75-page typed transcript of the 4 0  Ibid., 6-7. 4' Ibid., 7. 4 2  Consider, for example, Maclsaac’s Strategic Bombing in World War II.  Maclsaac argues on page 101: “Repeatedly [Survey members] stressed their joint conclusion that enemy civilian morale was not a productive target, that while morale can be adversely affected by air attack, there can be no predictable translation of morale effe