JF] nor the Navy liking the present version, and a good deal of fur flying in all directions.”1 7  The principal “fur” flingers that Nitze referred to were Anderson, and Ofstie, the Director of the Pacific Survey’s Naval Analysis Division. 1 6  Nitze to Mother, 3 February 1946, Box 165, folder 6, Nitze Papers, Library of Congress. 1 7  Nitze to Mother, 28 April 1946, Box 165, folder 6, Nitze Papers, Library of Congress. 142 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 152 --- Back in November 1925, about one month before the American senior military leadership court-martialed General William Mitchell for behavior that they believed violated good order and discipline (Mitchell’s public advocacy of an independent Air Force and his statements that the navy was irrelevant for national defense), Lieutenant Ralph Ofstie told a presidential board that “air power does not exist absolutely; that it exists only in conjunction with other forces which can cooperate with or which can 18transport it.” Army Lieutenant Orvil Anderson, then a flier, had disagreed. In fact he testified in December 1925, during the Mitchell court martial,1 9  that Mitchell’s call for an independent air force was correct. The navy, according to young Orvil Anderson, because it viewed air power as a supporting arm of the fleet, had a flawed conception of air power for the national defense.2 0 The inter-war years and the combat experience of World War II only reaffirmed for Anderson and Ofstie their ideas on the proper role of air power. To Anderson, World War II had demonstrated that air power “played such an outstanding role in this war that it will never again be thought of as subsidiary to ground or naval warfare...”2 1  Admiral Ofstie, however held a different view. In September 1945, he stressed to members of his Naval Analysis Division that their mission was to provide a thorough study of all air ope