blished four-volume typescript. Microfilm copy from the AFHRA (hereafter referred to as Beveridge), vol I, frame 1339-1340, 3-4. 5 0  Ibid., p. 3. Other agencies that took part in target selection and evaluation were the Economic Warfare Division of the American Embassy in England, the Economic Objectives Unit o f the Economic Warfare Division, the Army Air Force’s Air Board, and the Joint Target Group (JTG) which later replaced the COA to select and evaluate strategic targets in Japan; see Craven and Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War II, vol II,  363-365, and, Futrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine,  142-144, 162-163. 30 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 40 --- view.”3 1  What made this study significant was not so much the instructions, which followed along the same lines as those given to the COA for its evaluations, but the historians who made up the Committee and the conclusions that they produced. They included some of America’s leading historians in the fields of American and European history: Carl L. Becker, professor of European history at Cornell University; Henry S. Commager, professor of American and European history at Columbia University; Edward Mead Earle, member of the COA, special AAF advisor, and scholar at The Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton University; Louis Gottschalk and Bemadotte Schmitt, professors of history at the University of Chicago; and Dumas Malone of Harvard University.3 2 Their report, “Germany’s War Potential, December 1943: An Appraisal,” was different in its analytical approach and assumptions from those written by groups like the COA that preceded it and from ones like the Strategic Bombing Survey that would follow. General Arnold wanted the committee to examine “a// secret and confidential intelligence material in our possession to evaluate the effects of allied air operations on 5 1  Memo from Arnold to the