ommittee on Expenditures in the Executive Department obtained a number of unpublished Survey interrogations of key Japanese and German military and political leaders. The Congressman provided a litany of statements made by these individuals attesting to the importance of strategic bombing in defeating Germany and Japan. The excerpts that Congressman Dom used also expressed the notion that both Germany and Japan would have done better in the war if they had had an independent strategic air force. He included in the hearing record the conclusion from the Pacific Survey Summary Report about the need for a “third establishment” that would be responsible for strategic air power. The Summary Report’ s  conclusion supported Dorn’s desire for an air arm of co- 18equal status with the Army and Navy. Although President Truman signed the unification of the armed services into law in July 1947 there remained strong disagreements between the services over roles and missions. In the summer and fall of 1948 service leaders met with Secretary of Defense James Forrestal at Key West, Florida, and Newport, Rhode Island to iron out some of 1 7  Draft version excerpts from the Pacific Survey Summary Report provided by Admiral Ralph Ofstie, House Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Department, National Security A ct o f 1947,  30 June 1947, 632-635. 1 8  Representative W.J. Dom, House Committee on Expenditures in the Executive Department, National Security Act o f 1947,  20 June 1947, 535-542. 180 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 190 --- these problems. Although the meetings did reduce tensions, important questions remained unanswered over which service would control the atomic bomb and the method for dropping it in a potential war against the Soviet Union. II The atomic bomb posed a dilemma for the airmen’s vision for the postwar defense establishment. On the one hand, t