ic bomb and the method for dropping it in a potential war against the Soviet Union. II The atomic bomb posed a dilemma for the airmen’s vision for the postwar defense establishment. On the one hand, the airmen committed themselves to a strong public speaking and writing campaign, professing that the atomic bomb had revolutionized warfare and that the nation’s defense should be centered on the Air Force’s ability to deliver the bomb against the Soviet Union. But on the other, senior airmen knew that too much emphasis placed on the atomic bomb as the central part of the national defense establishment would raise troubling questions by Congress about their proposed seventy- group Air Force that was based largely on a conventional--non-atomic— strategic bombing • • 19mission. In the Spring of 1947, Major General Frederick Anderson, the Air Force Assistant Chief of Staff for Personnel and Public Relations, and a number of senior airmen helped a journalist write an article for the popular magazine, Readers Digest.  The purpose of the article was to strike fear into the hearts of many Americans and convince them of the need for the Air Force to have the capability of delivering an atomic attack against the Soviet Union. The draft of the article started off by warning the American people of the great potential danger that atomic bombs posed to the United States. Although the Soviet 1 9  For two studies that focus on the centrality of the Strategic Air Command (SAC) in the postwar Air Force see, Walton S. Moody, Building A Strategic Air Force  (Washington, D.C.: USGPO, 1995); and, William S. Borgiasz, The Strategic Air Command: Evolution and Consolidation o f Nuclear Forces, 1945- 1955  (Westport: Praeger, 1996). 1S1 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 191 --- Union did not posses the bomb, the article argued that the United States would “shortly be exposed” to a devas