tze that the report was anything but “an objective study of the war.” Ofstie found Air Campaigns  “to be in major part a vicious and deliberate attempt to discredit the entire naval service.” Ofstie forcefully reminded Nitze that Anderson’s proposed report had not been approved by the key Survey Directors as was his own Campaigns o f the Pacific War.  He considered the potential publication o f Air Campaigns  “to be directly contrary to the principles under which the Survey operated and decidedly inimical to the best interests of the armed services and the government....”9 1 Nitze suggested to Ofstie that he meet with Anderson’s staff “to see if an understanding could be reached on material objected to in the manuscript.” But Nitze reassured Ofstie that if an agreement between the “Army and Navy representatives” could not be reached over Air Campaigns , “the U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey would not publish this document...” Ofstie met with two of Anderson’s assistants on 14 March at the Burlington Hotel in Washington D.C. to discuss Air Campaigns.  After that meeting Ofstie informed the Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal, Nitze, and D’Olier by 9 0  D’Olier to McMurrin, 3 January 1947, Box 166, Nitze Papers, Library of Congress. 9 1  Ofstie to Nitze, 10 March 1947. 169 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 179 --- memorandum that no agreement was reached. Ofstie “assumed that publication of subject manuscript” was a “closed issue” as far as the Survey was concerned.9 2 Ofstie was wrong. In July 1947, the government printing office published under the auspices of the Strategic Bombing Survey, Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War.9 3  Naval officers were furious. After reading Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War,  Ofstie’s assistant, Captain G.W. Anderson, roared that the report would be better titled ‘“ Everyone’s Out of Step but Orville.’” Captain Anderson then reco