Survey, D’Olier would remain, as George Ball described him, the Survey’s “nominal leader.” Galbraith politely referred to D’Olier as *47the Survey’s “amiable figurehead.’  For the day-to-day running o f the Survey once it began operations, D’Olier would come to rely heavily on his vice-chairman (and de-facto head) New York banker and lawyer, Henry Alexander. D’Olier would not make any meaningful intellectual contributions to the Survey’s work. That would be done by key Survey Directors like Ball, Galbraith, Alexander, and Nitze, and the many civilian and military experts who would fill the Survey’s ranks and carry out the evaluation of strategic bombing.4 8 4 5 Hershberg, James B. Conant,  611-612. 4 6  Maclsaac, Strategic Bombing in World War II,  189; Perera, Leaves From My Book o f Life,  121. 4 7  Ball, The Past Has Another Pattern,  44; John Kenneth Galbraith, A Life in Our Times: Memoirs (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1981), 196. 481  intentionally focus on Survey Directors Nitze, Ball, Galbraith, and General Orvil Anderson (and later Admiral Ralph A. Ofstie) for two reasons: First, they were the Directors who seem to me to have provided the Survey with its intellectual direction, and in the case of the two military officers the intense inter- 58 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 68 --- When considerring civilian experts to fill the Survey’s analytical positions, The AAF wanted individuals who had a strong scientific or industrial background. After the experience that General Arnold and Edward Mead Earle had with the Committee of Historians in late 1943, it was no wonder that historians were not considered for positions on the Survey’s staff (except for the Survey’s chronicler, Major James Beveridge). Instead the Survey sought experts who had experience “in economic research and analysis, and with either a college background indicating work in this