ve against German morale. “Discouraged workers,” argued the Division, were “not necessarily unproductive y42workers, and German production kept up amazingly.’ The AAF did its part to ensure that Survey members understood the primary purpose of American strategic bombing to be the destruction of the enemy’s war-making capacity, not morale. A May 1945 memorandum prepared by the Intelligence Officer of the Eighth Air Force for the Strategic Bombing Survey explained the AAF’s conceptual approach to strategic bombing. Quoting from the Casablanca Directive of 1943, which stated Allied Grand Strategy for the defeat of Germany, the report argued: “In the historic words of the ‘Casablanca’  directive, it was the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic system...to a point where...capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened.” This, according to the report, was “the underlying concept on 4 1  USSBS, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on German Morale, Volume I,  1 . 4 2  Ibid., 53. 82 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 92 --- which all strategic operations of this Air Force have been carried out.” 4 3  But the report omitted an important clause from the Casablanca directive. The complete portion of the Casablanca directive that the report quoted from stated that the ultimate objective for the Combined Bomber Offensive was: “The progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic system, and the undermining o f the morale o f  the German people  to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened.”4 4 The Eighth Air Force memorandum omitted the clause that placed morale as an objective probably because it wanted to confirm in the minds of Survey analysts who read the report the AAF’s approach to strategic bombing, which was subtly different from the political purp