heater of Operations, 3 November 1944, Box 14, RG 243, NA. Strobe Talbott uses the term “calipers” when describing Paul Nitze’s analytical approach to evaluating strategic bombing, see Talbott, The Master o f the Game: Paul Nitze and the Nuclear Peace  (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1988), 32. 38 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 48 --- CHAPTER 2 FOR THE FUTURE OF THE A m  FORCE “We can be sure that this concept will not be accepted by the nations of the world unless air power proves itself during the course of this war.” Frederick M. Andrews, March 1943 “Our entire future air policy might well be determined from the [Survey’s] report.” Laurence Kuter, April 1944 Establishing the facts that proved the effectiveness of American air power in World War II would lay the foundation for American airmen’s claims for a postwar independent air force. Senior AAF leaders like Major General Laurence Kuter, the Assistant Chief of Staff for plans, therefore, committed themselves to proving the efficacy of air power through a civilian-led, scientific evaluation o f the American strategic bombing effort against Germany. Civilian experts would be able to tackle the complex problems of strategic target analysis that the airmen were unable to grasp while at the same time provide an aura of objectivity in their evaluation. But the conclusions brought out in an evaluation of such importance would have to vindicate, not discredit, the use of American strategic airpower in World War II, if the airmen were to use it to justify a postwar policy that embraced an independent air force. In November 1944, Secretary of War Henry Stimson made an official request to Franklin D’Olier, the President of Prudential Life Insurance, to become the chairman of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, a large organization that would conduct a 39 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Fu