rman occupied countries, of the results achieved by the Combined Bomber Offensive.”3 6  General Arnold on one hand admitted that the “air forces will be dependent on the results of the proposed study.” But on the other hand he proclaimed that: “I do not propose in any way to attempt to influence the conclusions of the [Survey] and I believe they should be strong enough to resist any partisan influence, that may be brought to bear upon them. What I want is to get at the facts, and if mistakes have been made in the past, I want to know about them, so that we can be even more effective in the future...In order to guarantee that the report of the [Survey] will be received as an unbiased and completely impartial study based solely on fact and not opinion, I am most anxious to have as the head of the [Survey] some outstanding American civilian, whose reputation for impartiality and good judgment is beyond question.”3 7 General Arnold’s proposed memorandum encapsulates the dilemma that senior airmen faced when they were establishing the Survey: How do you create a truly impartial study of strategic bombing when you are taking deliberate steps to shape the conclusions that the Survey would reach? 3 5  Theodore J. Koenig, “Program for the Strategic Bombing Effects Survey,” 5 September 1944, Beveridge, frame 1453. 3 6 It is unclear whether or not this proposed memorandum ever made it to the President’s desk. But considerring the importance that General Arnold placed on the Survey, it is almost certain that the President was made aware of the Survey as early as March 1944, if not sooner. 3 7  Memo from Arnold to the President, “Committee to Survey Results of Combined Bomber Offensive,” undated, Beveridge, frames 1370-1371. 55 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 65 --- Framing the questions that the Survey would answer and then setting up an organizational structure for t