d Colonel Harris Hull, 19 May 1947, Box 5, Frederick L. Anderson Papers (hereafter referred to as Anderson Papers), Hoover Institution Archives; also see, Carl Spaatz, “Strategic Airpower: Fulfillment of a Concept” Foreign Affairs , 24, (April 1946) 385-396. 2 1  Spaatz to The Evening Star,  28 January 1948, Box 12, Spaatz Folder, Symington Papers, Truman Library. 2 2  “Outline of Statement to be Made by Either Secretary o f Air Force, or Chief of Staff of Air Force,” undated, Box 7, Leach Folder, Symington Papers, Truman Library. 182 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 192 --- seminar” in 1948 that the Air Force’s primary wartime mission was to launch an “air counter-offensive” at the “earliest possible moment” with America’s “most powerful „23weapons. Both Generals, though, along with Secretary of the Air Force Stuart Symington downplayed the importance of the atomic bomb in national strategy when they briefed the Congressional Air Policy Board in early 1948 on the Air Force’s proposed seventy-group program. Since the end of World War II, the seventy-group Air Force had come to define what the airmen believed to be adequate air power for the national defense. The core of the seventy group program were twenty five very heavy bomber groups that could deliver a conventional, strategic bombing attack against the Soviet Union, and possibly an atomic attack as well.2 4  General Vandenberg told the congressmen of the Air Policy Board that the seventy group program that he was recommending dealt solely with “conventional types of bombs, and [did] not include atomic weapons, which should be regarded as a complement to conventional bombs, rather than as a basis on which an entire plan should be built.” That seventy group program, which would cost 7.5 billion dollars, was the “minimum force” that the United States should maintain in peacetime, argued General Vandenberg