mending an independent air service. In Ofstie’s mind, however, the Summary Report  draft had arrived at a conclusion that was “totally unsupported by the work of the 38Survey, and certainly not related to the [presidential] directive.” Ofstie’s biting marginal comments on Nitze’s draft were largely unsuccessful in changing the published (1 July 1946) Summary Report’ s  recommendations and conclusions. The published report began its concluding remarks by stating that “the role of air power should be given thorough consideration by those working out the solutions to new problems arising under [future] conditions.”3 9  Nitze’s Summary Report  did not explicitly call for an independent air force, but he left little doubt that that was what he had in mind. The lessons learned from the war in the Pacific, according to the report, “strongly support that form o f organization which...provides unity of command and is itself oriented toward air and new weapons[. The] Survey believes that, in addition to the Army and the Navy, there should be an equal and coordinate position for a third establishment.” This “third establishment” would not only have to conduct strategic 3 8  Ofstie’s Comments. 3 9  USSBS, Chairman’s Office, Summary Report  (Pacific War), 27. 149 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 159 --- bombing but also the air defense of the United States, and have the responsibility for “guided missiles.” The report emphasized that “the mission o f such a new establishment would differ considerably from that o f an autonomous air force...” which would conduct strategic bombing along the lines of World War II. The “new establishment” needed to have “additional and broader experience than has heretofore been required by the Army Air Forces alone.”4 0 In July 1946, shortly after the publication of the Summary Report , Orville Anderson felt that he needed to clarify for t