t analysis of William Mitchell on the development of American airpower see Mark L. Clodfelter, “Molding Airpower Convictions: Development and Legacy of William Mitchell’s Strategic Thought,” in Paths to Heaven,  79-114; Also see Alfred F. Hurley, Billy Mitchell: Crusader fo r Airpower (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1964); and Crane, Bombs, Cities, and Civilians,  15-22. 14 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 24 --- the United States should rely on an independent air force, not the navy, for its first line of defense.1 2  For publicly criticizing his superiors and their respective services, Mitchell was court martialed in 1925 and convicted for “conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline.” 1 3  After the conviction Mitchell resigned from the service but continued his air power crusade with greater zeal. Throughout the court martial ordeal Mitchell had the strong support of his fellow air officers. For example, Lieutenant Orville Anderson, who later would become Major General and serve as a director on the Strategic Bombing Survey, testified on behalf o f Mitchell’s ideas for an independent air arm. One year prior to Mitchell’s court martial, the House of Representatives created a committee by Representative Florian Lampert to determine air power’s role in the national defense. The committee received testimony from many air officers who argued that the Air Corps should have an independent role in defending the continental United States from naval and air attack. The Navy also presented its case to the committee. Lieutenant Ralph A. Ofstie testified to the committee that the nation’s defense was in good hands with the Navy and therefore did not need air power to exist independently from ground and naval forces.1 4  Ofstie, like Orville Anderson, would become a director of the Strategic Bombing Survey at the end of World War II. His testimo