d the End o f the Pacific War  (Lexington: University of Kentucky Press, 1997), 106-107. 4  Conrad C. Crane, “The Cigar Who Ignited the Fire Wind: Curtis LeMay and the Incendiary Bombing of Urban Areas,” Unpublished and Undated, 15-20. 84 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 94 --- enemy’s war-making capacity. Area bombing, therefore, was not always synonymous 48with attacking morale. George Ball’s Area Studies Division noted that there was a “mode” (method), and “objective,” for area attacks on cities. The difference between the methods of area and precision bombing, according to the Division, were “in the size and character of the bomb pattern.” To the Division, the method of area and precision bombing involved the tactics and operations that the Allies used to drop bombs on German cities. The Division posited that the objectives of precision raids were the systematic attack on “selected classes of installations (e.g., oil plants, aircraft plants, marshaling yards, etc.). In contrast, the objective of area raids were “urban centers containing various classes of installation, civilian, military, and industrial.”49 Area raids to the Division, meant the general destruction of the city’s war industry while precision bombing attacked specific industries. The overall objective of both area and precision bombing for Survey analysts, though, was still the enemy’s war-making capacity. There were a number of key factors that the Division believed led to a reduced capacity of Germany cities to produce war materiel due to area bombing: “absenteeism; direct damage to plants; destruction of inventories; disruption of facilities; disruption of transportation; diversion of resources to repair and replacement; casualties; dispersal of industries; [and] evacuation of [the] civilian population.” By using these factors for its evaluation, the analysts could then “compare varianc