dustry, the JTG put together “target information sheets” that contained data on concentrated industrial areas located in the largest Japanese cities. A late March JTG summary listing the major Japanese industrial cities noted that the city of Nagasaki contained “industry including both plants of the Mitsubishi Steel and Arms Works, the Akunoura Engine Works, Mitsubishi Electric, several other small factories and most of the ports storage and trans­ 2 1  Crane, Bombs, Cities, and Civilians,  125, 129, 131; XXI Bomber Command, “Analysis o f Incendiary Operations Against Japanese Urban Areas,” [March 1945], Box 37, Papers o f Curtis E. LeMay, Library of Congress. For a different interpretation than Crane’s that argues that LeMay did receive a great deal of pressure from Arnold to shift to fire bombing, see Schaffer, Wings o f Judgment,  126; and Sherry, The Rise o f American Air Power,  266. 113 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 123 --- shipment facilities.”2 2  The Nagasaki target sheet pointed out that a “successful area attack against Nagasaki will damage or destroy factories and a large proportion of the housing in the city.”2 3  Neither the city summary nor the Nagasaki target sheet listed the morale of the civilian population as an objective for strategic bombers. The JTG knew that the AAF would kill large numbers of civilians with their fire raids, but the objective was to reduce the productive level of the city. Killing and injuring civilian “workers” would help lower the output of factories due to “losses in labor.”2 4 The JTG prepared an air bombardment plan in June 1945 to support operation OLYMPIC (the code name for the planned ground invasion of Kyushu). There were two phases to the plan. The first phase would attack “production and storage capacities” while phase two attacked “transportation and other targets in direct support of an invasion.” Bot