cal effects. But Fairchild acknowledged at the beginning o f the lecture that this was not the recommended method of the School. Schaffer, therefore, quotes Fairchild out of context in order to provide support for his argument that both morale and physical capacity were equally important targets for air officers as they refined their theory of airpower in the late 1930s. Air officers at the Tactical School, however, did not treat both as equally important. Fairchild’s lecture, at least, demonstrates that in 1939 the primary objective for strategic bombers would be the enemy’s war-making capacity. 20 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 30 --- war in the modem way. The capacity to wage modem war is definitely fixed by the capacity of the national economic structure to provide the raw materials and to connect these materials into the sinews o f war.” Although efficient in peacetime, the economic structure in war would be highly susceptible to the application of strategic bombing, argued Fairchild. Airpower could apply, as he put it, “the additional pressure necessary to cause a breakdown— a collapse— o f this industrial machine by the destruction of some vital link or links in the chain that ties it together, constitut[ing] one o f the primary, basic objectives of an air force— in fact, it is the opinion of the School that this is the maximum contribution of which an air force is capable towards the attainment o f the ultimate aim in war.”2 5  In the words of historian Mark Clodfelter the dominant theme in the American theory of air power “was not the desire to attack civilians directly but the desire to sever the populace from the sources of production” by attacking their war making capacity.2 6 Based on a study of the American industrial system, ACTS instructor Major Haywood Hansell, who a few years later would assist in writing the plan for the American air wa