e airmen, the prize that the Survey would produce for them would be justification, in the form of Survey evidence, for a postwar independent air force. The airmen, therefore, did not want the Survey to answer the question of whether or not there should be an independent air force. As a result, they left alone the “more ambitious undertaking” of questioning the relevance of air power to national strategy and focused instead on strategic bombing’s effectiveness. Moreover, the airmen were confident that a group o f civilian industrialists and economists serving as Survey analysts would undoubtedly find plenty of positive evidence of the effectiveness of the AAF’ strategic bombing campaign against German war-making capacity. That is why in so many of the letters, memorandums, and directives establishing the Survey, the airmen often noted that the Survey would bring out 2 7  Memo from Kindleberger to Ames, 6 April 1944, “Post V-Day Investigation o f the Effects of the Combined Bomber Offensive,” Box 225, Spaatz Papers, Library of Congress. It is noteworthy that a later set of questions for the Survey posed by the EOU in August left out completely the objective of evaluating the relevance of strategic bombing, see “Outline Notes on the Strategic Bombardment Survey,” 9 August 1944, Beveridge frames 1485-1495. 51 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 61 --- “the accomplishments and potentialities of Air Power as an independent instrument of military strategy.”2 8  The Survey would do this by evaluating the effects of strategic bombing on the German war economy. Once the Joints Chiefs of Staff had formed the Joint Target Group in the fall of 1944, it too provided Survey planners with a set of questions that it desired to have answered concerning the effectiveness of strategic bombing. Since the JTG’s purpose was to provide centralized strategic target planning for the AA