ight and win a war against the Soviet Union by relying heavily on conventional strategic bombing. Symington told the Congressmen of the Air Policy Board: “The more air you can get us, the happier we are.”3 0 Ill The atomic bomb posed a different challenge to the Navy and its postwar interests. If the Air Force had to tread cautiously in dealing with the atomic bomb in its proposed organizational structure, the Navy struggled to demonstrate that it too could include atomic weapons in its vision for the national defense. Naval officers did this by conducting their own public relations campaign showing that the Navy’s carrier-based airplanes had a role to play in strategic bombing. Navy officers did not accept the airmen’s argument that strategic bombers like the B-29 and the Air Force’s newest bomber, the B-36, had so radically altered “time and space” as to make the geographical barrier created by the Pacific and Atlantic oceans irrelevant for the nation’s defense. One navy officer argued that naval aviation was “the frontier defense of the United States.” In this line of thinking, because the oceans still provided the United States with geographical protection from enemy attack, the navy and its carrier-based airplanes would be able to operate on the edge of that “frontier” and Brodie, “Critical Summary of War Department Paper,” in The Atomic Bomb and the Armed Services , ed., Bernard Brodie and Eileen Galloway, (Washington, D.C.: The Library of Congress, 1947), 88. 3 0  Air Policy Discussions, 21. 186 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 196 --- protect the United States “from surprise attack.”3 1  Admiral Ofstie told a 1948 Navy Day audience that he did not believe the Soviet Union could launch a long range conventional bombing attack against the United States. The great oceans that separated Russia and the United States were still America’s best lines of def