uced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 216 --- to use it.” But Ofstie did believe the United States should attack Soviet “grain crops” as soon as “we had the advantage and knew that the Soviets could not retaliate effectively against us. This would then be merely a quicker way o f bringing the enemy to submission.” Ofstie also hinted at a willingness to launch a surprise bacteriological attack against the Soviets providing there was “evidence” that the Soviets were intending to attack the United States with biological weapons. Killing civilians, therefore, with weapons of mass destruction, did not pose a moral dilemma for Ofstie in 1948.7 4 In this same classified memorandum, Ofstie strongly advocated a heavily nuclear preventive war against the Soviets. According to Ofstie’s “personal view,” the United States: “should go to war at that time when Russia is approaching industrial self sufficiency in that part of Europe which is outside Russia...The obvious advantage would be that this would make it possible for us to win the war. The alternative would be a stalemate and subsequent decreased relative potential between the U.S. and the Soviet. Such a course of action (preventive war) would be possible in this country if the public were educated up to fully understanding the true position...It would be very difficult to make full preparations for a ‘planned war’ without publicly revealing that intent. However, the ace up our sleeve here would be our ability to prepare fully for atomic warfare since the weapons themselves are already in existence and the aircraft (land and carrier based) are needed in only small numbers of inauspicious types, and necessary installations afloat and ashore can be prepared without any particular show...It would appear to me that the selection of ‘D’ Day would, in some measure at least, be guided by casting a balance between our atomic readines