942, one year after the submission of AWPD-1, air planners produced AWPD-42, “Requirements for Air Ascendancy.” AWPD-42 added to the older list of objectives the destruction of German submarine construction and the depletion of the German air force, but maintained the same conceptual base as the earlier plan. As Haywood Hansell later noted about AWPD- 42, the primary strategic purpose was still to use strategic bombing to destroy “the capability and will of Germany to wage war.” This would be accomplished, according to Hansell, by “destroying the war-supporting industries and economic systems upon which 39the war-sustaining and political economy depended.” Ill By late 1942 the AAF was becoming confident in its ability to bomb targets in France and Germany. As the AAF refined tactical and operational procedures, it could give more attention to strategic target selection and evaluation.40 But it was experiencing a good deal of controversy over the selection of targets produced by its military and civilian intelligence sections. Some airmen believed that the analyses were too pessimistic in their appraisal of the affect that target destruction would have on German industry. Others argued that much more analysis was required of 3 8  Hansell, The Air Plan that Defeated Hitler , 86. 3 9  AWPD-42, “Requirements for Air Ascendancy,” 9 September 1942, tab b-1. Box 206,, Map Room Files, Franklin Delano Roosevelt (FDR) Library; Hansell, The Strategic Air War Against Germany and Japan , 58; Futrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine , 131. 4 0  Wesley Frank Craven and James Lea Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War If, 7 vols,  (Chicago: University o f Chicago Press, 1948), vol II, 224-227. 26 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 36 --- German industry if the AAF wanted to attack the most vital targets contributing to the 41German war effort. Realizing the importance of target se