and ashore can be prepared without any particular show...It would appear to me that the selection of ‘D’ Day would, in some measure at least, be guided by casting a balance between our atomic readiness (stockpile of bombs, planes able to penetrate, and bases within range) and the growing war capability o f the USSR.”7 3 This passage demonstrates Ofstie’s belief in the soundness of a strategic bombing campaign against the Soviets, as long as the methods used in that strategic bombing 7 4  Memo from Ofstie to Chairman, General Board, “General Board Serial 315,” 8 April 1948, Box 3, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 7 5  Ibid.; also see. Address of Dr. R.E. Lapp, Acting Head of Nuclear Physics Branch, to Western Safety Conference, “Atomic Warfare and City Defense,” 29 June 1949, Box 6, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 207 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 217 --- campaign involved the Navy’s carrier-based aircraft. It also shows that a senior, influential military officer like Ofstie was willing to call, in a classified memorandum, for a surprise atomic attack against the Soviet Union in order to prevent the Soviets from attacking the United States first. And Ofstie’s memorandum noted what he referred to as “educating the public” to accept the “true position;” which meant America’s need to have the political will to launch a “preventive war” against the Soviet Union. Ofstie made the same argument to the Joint Chiefs of staff when he served as a board member for the evaluation of the July 1946 Bikini Island atomic tests. The “Operation Crossroads” evaluation team was headed by Massachusetts Institute of Technology President Karl T. Compton and also included General J.W. Stilwell, General Albert Wedemeyer, and Admiral D.S. Parsons as special advisors.7 6  The evaluation team which Ofstie served on released their final report to the Joint Chiefs on 29