ay. Young acknowledged that Anderson’s remarks to Rankin in 1951 “stands as a remarkable summary o f the theoretical work accomplished at the Air War College. All the main themes are there: the nation is at war; the power of the new weapons is such that the first blow will be decisive; there, this first (atomic) blow must be struck by the United States.” Also see a 1949 essay by General Orvil A. Anderson, “Air Warfare and Morality,” Air University Quarterly Review , (Winter 1949), pp. 5-15. Anderson argues that atomic warfare against the Soviet Union would be moral because American bombers would not be attacking civilians directly, but rather the Soviet industrial “power” base (p. 7). Bernard Brodie’s Strategy in the Missile Age (227-232),  has an excellent and still relevant passage on preventive war theory. Also see Marc Trachtenberg, “A ‘Wasting Asset:’ American Strategy and the Shifting Nuclear Balance, 1949-1954,” in Marc Trachtenberg, History and Strategy  (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1992), 105. 8 8  USSBS, Summary Report (Pacific War),  30. 213 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 223 --- Orvil Anderson, America’s defense should come from offensive action that would destroy the enemy’s war-making capability before it could be brought to bear against the United States. The contradiction between the Survey reports of Anderson and Nitze over retaliation versus preventive war manifested the dilemma that strategic air power had posed for the military’s defense of the United States. In the logic of air power theory, if the enemy’s forces could be destroyed in a first strike, the surest way to defend the United States was through offensive, not defensive, action. In a very troubling, but truthful way, Orvil Anderson was one of the few military officers who understood the dilemma, explained it publicly, and advocated a strident solution to the dilemm