e report, Japan's Struggle to End the War, that seems to have expanded on the original section in the Summary Report. 5 2  Admiral Arleigh Burke, and assistant to Ofstie, argued in 1949 that the early surrender counterfactual was moved within the Summary Report  to strengthen the notion that “the atom bomb was of prime importance in concluding the Pacific war.” Burke wrote this analysis of the Summary Report  for Ofstie in 1949 during the bitter controversy between the Air Force and the Navy over their respective services roles and missions. A close reading of the Summary Report  with the counterfactual placed in the two different locations does not support Burke’s analysis. Burke was undoubtedly trying to provide evidence for Ofstie to discredit the Air Force’s reliance in 1949 on the atomic bomb by showing that the Survey moved the counterfactual within the Summary Report  to give more weight to it in forcing Japan to surrender; see Memorandum from Burke to Ofstie, 9 September 1949, “An Analysis of How the Conclusions Contained in the Summary Report  of the U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey (Japan) Were Modified in Successive Drafts of the Report,” Box 8, Special USSBS Folder, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 154 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 164 --- Nitze’s use of the counterfactual in the Summary Report  drew no criticism from other Survey analysts. The Survey’s chronicler, Major James Beveridge, noted that there was “serious controversy” among Survey analysts over some of the Survey’s conclusions. But these bitter disagreements were caused by the “Military Analysis and Naval Analysis Divisions...over the respective contributions of the Navy and the Air Forces [sic] to the ending o f the war against Japan,” and not the early-surrender counterfactual. Beveridge went on to note that the Survey’s recommendations concerning the postwar defense establi