airmen in their post-war crusade for an independent air force. The fledgling Air Intelligence Section of the AAF was one of the first agencies that brought in civilian experts to work on strategic target selection and evaluation. After leaving the Tactical School in 1940, Haywood Hansell joined the section and was placed in charge of determining the critical links in the German and Japanese industrial systems. With the growing threat of Nazi Germany and the availability of a more robust AAF budget, Hansell was able to bring in to the Air Intelligence Section a number of prominent civilian experts. One was Malcolm Moss, who held a Ph.D. in industrial engineering. Moss produced an analysis of Germany’s electrical power system that, according to Hansell, provided the information needed to put together an extensive target j0 Proposed Memo Arnold to the President, “Committee to Survey Results of Combined Bomber Offensive,” April 1944, Box 41, Record Group 243, United States Strategic Bombing Survey (RG243), National Archives (NA), College Park, MD.; H. H. Arnold, Global Mission , (Harper and Brothers: New York, 1949), 490-491; Futrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine,  144; Thomas M. Coffey, Hap: The Story o f the U.S. Air Force and the Man Who Built It  (New York: Viking Press, 1982), 277-278. 23 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 33 --- plan for attacking German electrical power.3 1  Hansell and other air force officers would draw heavily on analyses like Moss’s as war with Germany became a reality. A year later in 1941, responding to a request from President Roosevelt to the Service Secretaries, General Arnold directed Hansell along with Lieutenant Colonels Harold George, Kenneth Walker, and Laurence Kuter to write the AAF’s portion of '‘ the overall production requirements required to defeat our potential enemies.”3 2  In order to determine production requirements t