s capitulation. This is the dilemma that emerges from the pages of the Pacific Survey reports: How to claim the decisiveness of conventional air power when there was evidence pointing to the conclusion that a large part of the AAF’s campaign, while important, was not the crucial factor in Japan’s defeat? The devastating effects of the anti-shipping campaign and of conventional strategic bombing certainly forced the Japanese leadership to realize that defeat was inevitable. But there is a difference between the realization of defeat and the political acceptance of surrender. Here is where the atom bomb enters into the equation. If read as a collective whole, the Pacific Survey reports implicitly suggest that the atom bomb was the sufficient cause that transformed the realization of defeat into surrender, thus contradicting the early surrender counterfactual.7 3 Tucked away in an often ignored appendix of The Effects o f Air Attack on Japanese Urban Economy  is a postwar analysis of strategic bombing, produced by scholars from Japan’s Imperial University. Their analysis agrees with most of the Survey’s main themes, except for this striking remark about the conventional air attack, the atom bomb, 7 3  For an analysis of the evidence concerning Japan’s decision to surrender beyond what the Survey used, see Bernstein, “Compelling Japan’s Surrender Without the A-bomb, Soviet Entry, or Invasion,” 128-138. 163 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 173 --- and the end of the war: “Though there were many different views [over whether to continue the war], the majority of leaders entirely lost heart to continue hostilities. Particularly, the debut of the atomic bombs in the Pacific war theater was decisive”1 4  It is unclear how this statement made its way into the final report. Paul Nitze himself was one of four survey directors whose personal approval was necessary befor