curate [precision] bombing.” Alexander, restating the Survey’s conclusions concerning area attacks against German cities, responded that the most effective method for destroying the productive capacity of Germany was the effort directed “toward the industry rather than toward the community.” Most of the industry, as he put it, was located on the perimeter of German cities. Area attacks, argued Alexander, that had as their aiming point the center of the city, were ineffective in damaging the city’s war economy.2 1  “Proceedings,” Conference between members of the JTG and USSBS, 9 June 1945, Box 2, file 001, RG 243, NA. 2  “Excerpts From U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey Conference,” 24 October 1945, United States Strategic Bombing Survey, file 137.5-2, AFHRC; Maclsaac, Strategic Bombing in World War  //, 141-142. 104 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 114 --- In June 1945, four months prior to his press conference in October, Alexander was involved in another conference on the effects o f strategic bombing against Germany, but this time with members of the Joint Target Group (the agency formed by the JCS to provide centralized target planning for the Pacific bombing campaign). In fact during the month of June, Alexander, along with D’Olier, Ball, Nitze, and other Survey Directors, held a series of meetings in Washington D.C. with key political and military leaders.3 Planning for the land invasion of Japan fostered an interest among American leaders and agencies like the JTG in hearing the Survey’s findings on the effects of strategic bombing in Europe for possible application in the Pacific. The JTG, and its predecessor, the COA, had been analyzing the vulnerability of Japanese cities to strategic bombing as early as the Fall of 1943. Both agencies had refined their thinking on the most effective bombing methods and objectives for the AAF in its strategic air camp