reading Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War,  Ofstie’s assistant, Captain G.W. Anderson, roared that the report would be better titled ‘“ Everyone’s Out of Step but Orville.’” Captain Anderson then recommended to Ofstie, because the report was of the most “pernicious” nature, that it be “withdrawn from circulation and disciplinary action taken....”9 4 Secretary of the Navy Forrestal was equally upset. In early September 1947, he sent a letter (prepared for him by Ofstie) to D’Olier with copies furnished to Secretary of War Kenneth Royall and Paul Nitze. Forrestal stressed to D’Olier the crucial problem with the publication of Air Campaigns:  it was “published by the Government Printing Office without prior reference to any representative of the Navy Department,” thus violating the Survey’s established procedures for approving reports for publication. Forrestal believed the report to be “highly objectionable” and “replete with malicious implication and biased opinion.” He found it “decidedly derogatory to the wartime leadership o f the Naval high command.” He closed the letter with a strong request that D’Olier take immediate action 9 2  Memorandum for file by Ofstie, ‘ “ Air Campaigns of the Pacific War,’ prepared by the Military Analysis Division, U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey,” 17 March 1947, Box 8, special USSBS folder, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 9 3  See 9 4  Memo from Anderson for Ofstie, “Air Campaigns of the Pacific War,” 4 September 1947, Box 8, special USSBS folder, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 170 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 180 --- not only “to suppress the publication but to disavow it due to errors of fact, interpretation, 95and conclusion.” Paul Nitze soon learned how Air Campaigns  came to be published as an official Survey report. Nitze told the Deputy Chief o f Naval Operations, Admiral Forrest Sherman, that he ha