t two ‘basic industries” like transportation and oil was crucial, and that “all of the rest” had been a mistake. 4 6  JTG/USSBS Conference, 14. 124 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 134 --- Orvil Anderson said “no, but it can be stated that it was almost unnecessary.” He went on to admit that strategic bombing could reduce a given target “system” to a point where the law of “diminishing returns” dictated that there was “something of more immediate value and greater value, whether that be 5% of [Germany’s] remaining production or 7% would have to be determined, but we all approach a law of diminishing returns that drives us from a target. The last 10% might be vital.”4 7 Anderson’s rambling language, laden with economic jargon, hid a deeper ambivalence about the decisiveness of strategic air power. Like Alexander, Anderson could comfortably state that a properly planned and executed strategic bombing campaign directed at basic industries would break an enemy’s capacity to resist, and in this sense, be decisive. But to take the next step and argue, in the case of Germany, that it made “all of the rest” unnecessary was more than he or Alexander were willing to claim. Such a step would have required a counterfactual argument stating that the land invasion of Europe was unnecessary to defeat Germany. Ill The JTG considered the information that the Survey had presented to them during the June conferences on the effects of strategic bombing against the German war economy. Yet because the JTG was committed to planning for the use of air power in the Pacific to support a successful ground invasion of Japan, they did not place top priority on attacking ‘basic industries” like Japanese transportation with precision bombing methods, as the Survey’s European analysis suggested. Instead the JTG recommended the XXI Bomber Command continue its fire raids on Japanese urban a