t need air power to exist independently from ground and naval forces.1 4  Ofstie, like Orville Anderson, would become a director of the Strategic Bombing Survey at the end of World War II. His testimony in 1924 anticipated the bitter inter-service rivalry between himself and Anderson over air power issues in the post-World War II unification debates. 1 2  William Mitchell, Winged Defense: The Development and Possibilities o f Modern Air Power— Economic and Military , first published in 1921 (New York: Kennikat Press, 1971, reprint), 215; Hurley, Billy Mitchell,  103. 1 3  Quoted from Crane, Bombs, Cities, and Civilians,  16. For the Mitchell court martial see Clodfelter, “Molding Airpower Convictions,” 101-105. 1 4  Futrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine  44-53. The post-World War II unification debates will be addressed in Chapter 6. 15 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 25 --- During the Depression years o f the 1930s, airmen had to show caution when advocating their conceptual approach to strategic bombing. Mitchell and other American airmen believed that strategic bombers were fundamentally offensive weapons designed to strike quickly, violently and preferably with surprise  at key targets in enemy territory.1 5  Defense o f the continental United States, however, was the ostensible justification that airmen used when calling for an independent air force. Continental defense fit comfortably with isolationist American attitudes. It would have been unpalatable for air officers to advocate air power in an offensive role after the American experience with German aggression in the Great War and the nominal support for the Kellog-Briand Pact o f 1929 that purportedly outlawed war. The Depression years focused American attention on internal domestic problems. Arguing for a fleet of long range strategic bombers designed to attack the homeland of a foreign nation smac