ficials to fill in the gaps of their analysis on the effects of strategic bombing. By August 1945, John Galbraith, George 1 “Minutes o f Meeting Held, 1  April 1945,” recorded by Paul Nitze, Box 2, file 001., RG 243, NA. 69 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 79 --- Ball, Paul Nitze and the other Directors had moved back to Washington D.C. to craft their final Division reports. Some of them were also preparing to continue their work in the Pacific.2 To write those final reports they had to develop an evaluation methodology to gauge the impact of strategic bombing on German war-making capacity. If the Survey’s mandate was only to assess the amount of physical destruction caused by strategic bombing, the task would have been straightforward and relatively easy.3  But they needed a method that enabled them to explore the relationship between discrete industries and the entire war economy, and the effects of strategic bombing thereon. If the selection of strategic bombing targets was a complex affair, the evaluation of strategic bombing would be equally as demanding. The more than 200 published reports and studies from the European Survey, completed by late 1945, attest to the staggering amount of research and statistical data that Survey members collected and analyzed in their evaluation of strategic bombing against Germany.4  The published reports seem to contain collectively, and at times individually, competing conclusions and contradictions. Yet the discursive nature of the Survey’s published reports conforms to a logical pattern when understood within the framework of the American conceptual approach to strategic bombing. 2  Ball, The Past Has Another Pattern , 61; Galbraith, A Life In Our Times , 225-226. 3  Bereta to Bowman, 1  May 1945, Box 28, file 319.4, RG 243, NA. 4  A good reference guide to Survey reports and studies is Gordon Daniels, A Guide to th