over atomic weapon development brought about sharp debate. But there was no disagreement among the service Chiefs over the recommendation that the President should consider reorienting national military policy to allow for an offensive strike against the Soviet Union. Indeed, when the Chiefs forwarded the Crossroads Report to the White House they bracketed the paragraphs concerning preventive war so that President Truman could carefully consider this proposed crucial shift in policy. The Chiefs acknowledged in a cover memorandum to the President that a substantial shift in policy toward preventive war was a political decision that the commander in chief would have to make.7 9 Secretary of Defense Forrestal attached a cover letter to the ChieF s memorandum pointing out to the President that the bracketed portions related to '‘ the enactment of legislation which would establish new definitions of acts of aggression and incipient attack. Such legislation would make it the duty of the President o f the United States, as Commander in Chief of its Armed Forces, and after consultation with the Cabinet, to order atomic bomb retaliation when such retaliation was necessary to prevent or frustrate 80an atomic energy attack upon us.” By using the term “retaliation” the Secretary hedged on fully advocating to the President a shift in policy toward preventive war. Yet 7 8 Joint Chiefs of Staff, “The Final Report of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Evaluation Board for Operation Crossroads, 23 September 1947,” in America’ s Plans fo r War, vol 9,  10-12. ’’ibid., 97-101, 110-111, 114-115; also see Memo from Ofstie to Compton, “Final Report of JCS Evaluation Board: General Considerations,” 18 June 1947, Box 3, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 8 0  Forrestal to the President, 6 April 1948, Box 201, President Secretary’s Files, Truman Library. 209 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf ---