Axis war effort...In view of the ability of adequate and properly utilized air power to impair the industrial sources of the enemy’s military strength, only the most vital considerations should be permitted to delay or divert the application of an adequate air striking force to 4 6  Committee of Operations Analysts Report on “Vulnerability of Japanese Economic Objectives to Strategic Air Bombardment,” 6 February 1944, Box 167, FDR Library, Map Room Files; Perera, Leaves From My Book o f Life,  110, 114. The term urban area attacks has often been cited to describe the use of strategic bombers in World War II to attack German and Japanese cities with the intention of making civilians targets, thereby directly attacking their morale. Urban area attacks, in this conception, becomes synonymous with the direct attack on morale as an objective.  But for American airmen and civilian analysts during World War II, urban area attacks, like the precise bombing of specific industrial targets (precision bombing), was a method  (albeit one of a more generally destructive nature) o f strategic bombing with the objective  usually being the German and Japanese war-making capacity. An urban area attack, as a method , could have had morale as an objective , but the two were logically distinct, and not automatically synonymous. 4 7  Earle to Riefler, 23 December 1942, History o f the COA, File 118.01, AFHRC. 4 8  Biddle, “British and American Approaches to Strategic Bombing,” 118-120; Schaffer, Wings o f Judgment,  36-38; Charles Webster and Noble Frankland, The Strategic Air Offensive Against Germany, 1939-1945, Volume 1 1 : Endeavour  (London; Her Majesty’s Stationary Office, 1961), 12. Disagreement with the British over area and precision bombing would shape the decision for the Strategic Bombing Survey to act independently from the British Bombing Survey. 29 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advo