with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 133 --- bombing forced Adolph Hitler to “decide” to end the war. What the report did argue was that Allied strategic bombing broke Germany’s capacity to resist and in this sense, according to the Survey, it “was decisive.” Survey members themselves disagreed on how and why strategic bombing was “decisive” and indeed often on what they meant. During the 9 June meeting with the Joint Target Group, Henry Alexander told Norstad he thought that “the oil system was decisive. I think the decisiveness was aided and speeded by the attack on transportation as well.” Then Ball interjected: “I think the transportation would have been decisive without the oil.” Seeking clarification, General Norstad inquired if “the enemy’s capacity to resist would have been weakened by oil alone or transportation or by the combination of both to a point where he had to quit?” Shrewdly, Alexander hedged his response to the General: “Of course when you say ‘have to quit[,]’ decisive doesn’t mean that completely. There were still men standing in bushes with rifles that had to be disposed of. O f course, he couldn’t make any effective defense or any appreciable defense for any length of time with those two factors as they were reduced. [Decisive] does not necessarily mean that every soldier would have to put down his gun and go home.” General Samford of the JTG wondered whether “it could be said that in this condition, that had there been just the attack on transportation and oil, even had they been implemented further, that all of the rest which was done was unnecessary.”4 6  Here Samford was asking the Survey directors to state forthrightly that strategic bombing against two ‘basic industries” like transportation and oil was crucial, and that “all of the rest” had been a mistake. 4 6  JTG/USSBS Conference, 14. 124 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. F