ert— rather than a strictly 29military study or war plan.” II If Guilio Douhet and ACTS instructor Lieutenant Colonel Donald Wilson were correct in stating that the essence of air strategy was target selection, and since according to Hansell and Fairchild target selection for strategic bombing relied heavily on civilian experts, the logical conclusion then was that civilians— economists, industrialists, and technicians— were the most qualified to plan and evaluate strategic air warfare. As air officers became immersed in organizing and operating the Army Air Forces to fight 2 7  Hansell, The Strategic Air War Against Germany and Japan,  12-13; Muir Fairchild, “National Economic Structure,” 29-30. 2 8  Hansell, The Strategic Air War Against Germany and Japan,  12,19; Muir Fairchild, “National Economic Structure,” 31. 2 9 Muir Fairchild, “National Economic Structure,” 6-7. 22 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 32 --- Germany and later Japan, there was a growing reliance on civilian experts for target selection and evaluation within the Army Air Forces. Air officers also realized that evaluations would become the evidentiary base establishing the efficacy of strategic bombing and, hopefully for the airmen, an independent post-war air force. General Henry H. Arnold, airpower pioneer during the interwar years and AAF Commanding General during World War II, noted that the Strategic Bombing Survey’s evaluation of American airpower in the European theater would “prove to be the foundation of our future national policy on the employment of air power.”3 0  Civilian experts would come to play a crucial role in formulating air strategy and their evaluations would assist the airmen in their post-war crusade for an independent air force. The fledgling Air Intelligence Section of the AAF was one of the first agencies that brought in civilian experts to work on strategic tar