ategic Bombing Survey,  223. Beveride confirms that Nitze was the primary author of the Summary Report.  So too does Nitze himself in his memoirs, From Hiroshima to Glasnost,  44. 141 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 151 --- Galbraith began writing their final reports in July, 1945 and for the most part had them completed and ready for publication by October, 1945. But instead of taking four months or less, Pacific Survey analysts spent on the average of eight to nine months to complete their final reports. They began drafting the reports in late November on the eve of their departure from Tokyo and did not send the final versions to the publisher until roughly July 1946 (and in one extreme case, June 1947). Nitze complained that after establishing Survey headquarters in Washington D.C. upon their return from the Pacific in December, many of his analysts were more concerned about returning to civilian life than doing their job. Nitze lamented in a letter to his Mother: “Trying to run this Survey job in peace time, largely with Army personnel who want to get out immediately and don’t propose to do much work in the meantime is enough of a struggle, particularly as many of the best men have just had to leave.”1 6 Yet the fundamental cause o f Nitze’s distress and the lengthy time that it took to publish many of the Pacific Survey reports was the bitter inter-service rivalry between the AAF and the Navy over the Survey’s conclusions that either directly or indirectly pointed to the respective roles that each service had played in ending the war against Japan. Nitze said that his Summary Report  had “assumed the nature of a ‘cause celebre’  with neither the Army [AAJF] nor the Navy liking the present version, and a good deal of fur flying in all directions.”1 7  The principal “fur” flingers that Nitze referred to were Anderson, and Ofstie, the Director of the Pa