s to why the economic, industrial, and statistical phases of the Survey [were] being accented more than the physical damage phase.”6 3 6 2  Memo from Galbraith to Black, October 1949, Box 70, Papers o f John Kenneth Galbraith, John F. Kennedy Presidential Library; Maclsaac, Strategic Bombing in World War II,  71-72. 6 3  Bereta to Bowman, 1  May 1945, Box 28, file 319.4, RG 243, NA. 89 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 99 --- Part of the problem that Bereta and his Division faced was the growing influence that Nitze wielded among Survey members, especially Franklin D’Olier. When the Survey conducted its field operations in France and Germany from January to July 1945, Vice- Chairman Alexander and Chairman D ’Olier worked out of the Survey’s London Headquarters, and made frequent trips back to the United States. In their absence, Nitze acted as Survey Chairman. Not surprisingly, D’Olier had come to rely “very heavily on him” because of his ability and expertise. Bereta noted that “many of the policies of the Survey are definitely set by Mr. Nitze due to the confidence that higher authority has in him.”6 4 By June 1945, Nitze, Ball, and Galbraith were beginning to formulate initial conclusions about the effects of strategic bombing. They believed that the AAF had been most effective when it directed its bombers against basic industries such as electric power, transportation, and oil production.6 5  Based on the evidence that their Divisions had collected and analyzed, especially Albert Speer’s testimony, Nitze recalled that unlike attacks on finished products such as ball-bearings or airframe plants, the basic industries “once severely damaged, could not be quickly restored to full production nor could stocks be readily replaced.” It was the basic industries that linked together the entire German war economy that proved to be the most valuable target systems f