33-334; Craven and Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War II,  vol I, 353. 4 3  Craven and Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War II, vol I,  353-354; James MacGreggor Bums, Roosevelt: The Soldier o f Freedom  (New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1970), 345. 4 4  Arnold to the Assistant Chief of Air Staff, Management Control, “Research and Analysis to Fix Earliest Practicable Date for Invasion of Western Europe,” 9 December 1942, History of the COA, File 118.01, AFHRA. 27 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 37 --- Contained in this directive was the explicit desire on the part of General Arnold to have the committee come up with a prediction as to when the progressive destruction of the “German war effort” due to strategic bombardment would allow for a successful land invasion of the European Continent. In order to predict when this future event might occur, the committee would necessarily have to undertake a detailed, systematic evaluation of German war-making capacity. Predicting decisive events brought about by strategic bombing would come to be part of most AAF directives for analyses and evaluations of the German and Japanese war efforts during World War II. The imperative for predicting decisive events would also set the precedent for the Strategic Bombing Survey’s historical counterfactual speculation about events that did not occur in the past. COA members never questioned the American conceptual approach to strategic bombing. Their evaluation of the effects of AAF strategic bombing attacks on Germany, their target recommendations, and their predictions were grounded in the American conception. The committee’s preliminary report argued that it was better to use strategic bombers to attack a “few really essential industries or services” rather than cause a minor amount of destruction to many industries. According to this early report, critical targets,