n entire plan should be built.” That seventy group program, which would cost 7.5 billion dollars, was the “minimum force” that the United States should maintain in peacetime, argued General Vandenberg.2 5 2 3  Hoyt S. Vandenberg, “Remarks by General Hoyt S. Vendenberg at Civilian Seminar, PLACE: Air University,” 12 May 1948, Box 89, Hoyt S. Vandenberg Papers (hereafter referred to as Vandenberg Papers), Library of Congress. 2 4  Moody, Building a Strategic Air Force,  54; also see Michael Sherry, Preparing fo r the Next War: American Plans fo r Postwar Defense, 1941-1945  (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1977). 2 3  Transcript of “General Vandenberg, Vice Chief o f Staff, USAF, Before Congressional Air Policy Board on 21 January 1948,” Box 12, RG 341, Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, NA, 7, 11. This transcript contains General Vandenberg’s testimony to the board. 183 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 193 --- During the discussion period that followed General Vandenberg’s presentation, the first remark made by Congressman John Hinshaw, the Board’s Head, pointed out that the General’s presentation “omitted any mention of the use of atomic weapons.” This was perplexing to the Congressman because of all the published statements he had read touting the exceptional power o f atomic weapons as compared to conventional bombs. Congressman Hinshaw noted that some of the figures that he had in mind placed one atomic bomb as having “270 times the capacity of one B29,” that would drop only conventional bombs. Since General Vandenberg had not mentioned the great power of atomic bombs during his briefing, Congressman Hinshaw wondered “how the use of that weapon affects the plan.” General Spaatz responded by emphasizing the secrecy surrounding the bomb and the inability, due to security requirements, for the airmen to discuss it with the Congressmen: “When you talk abou