wer system would have had a crippling effect on the overall German war economy. Nitze stated that “if there was a target system which we had not attacked on a concentrated systematic basis which might have been decisive, the Germans...come out with the answer that power would have done it.” Germany, argued Nitze, would not have been able to prevent “a complete breakdown of their distribution system” if the AAF had knocked out twenty key power plants in the German system. Nitze emphasized to Samford: “If you had gone after heavy generating equipment with big bombs they couldn’t have rebuilt in less than two or three years the equipment necessary to put them back into operation.”3 6 If one could remove the titles of rank of conference participants like General Anderson and General Samford, and if one could remove the explicit references to strategic bombing in the discourse, the discussions between the JTG and the Survey would seem 3 5  Conference Questions; JTG/USSBS Conference. 3 6  JTG/USSBS Conference, 19-20. 119 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 129 --- like an economic conference about Germany’s gross national output. Guilio Douhet emphasized in 1921 that the essence of air strategy was selecting the appropriate targets for strategic bombers. And as the American conceptual approach to strategic bombing developed in the 1930s, those targets became essentially economic in nature. Therefore, the most qualified individuals to formulate air power strategy (as opposed to tactics and operations) were civilian industrial and economic experts, not airmen.3 7 But General Anderson, during the conference, tried to place what was essentially an economic analysis by the JTG and Survey Directors of the German economy into a military context, with Anderson himself being the foremost expert. At one point George Ball, Paul Nitze, and Robert Russell (Survey Director o f th