experience than has heretofore been required by the Army Air Forces alone.”4 0 In July 1946, shortly after the publication of the Summary Report , Orville Anderson felt that he needed to clarify for the Secretary of War and the Commanding General of the Army Air Forces some of the Summary Report's  conclusions. In a lengthy memorandum Anderson considered the Summary Report  to be “an instrument which perceives the truth but has not pointedly developed the fundamental issues as a working thesis.” Regarding the report’s conclusion on the need for reorganization and unification, Anderson believed that the Survey had taken an appropriate stand on that issue. Yet the Summary Report  did not go far enough, argued the General, in spelling out the need for an independent air force that would subsume all types of air power, both naval and land based: “Within this new Department o f Air, it is important that we concentrate our air strength and centralize the responsibility for development of our future air weapons.”4 1  General Anderson 4 0  Ibid., 32. 4 1  Anderson to Secretary of War and Commanding General, Army Air Forces, “Summary Report, United States Strategic Bombing Survey,” 11 July 1946, Box 27, file 319.1 (A), RG 243, NA. In this memorandum Anderson was guilty of bad documentation. The Summary Report  wrote the term “air power” as two separate words. Yet Anderson’s memorandum, when citing verbatim passages from the Summary Report,  combined the two words into one: “Airpower.” This was intentional (he used the term “Airpower” in this manner at least twelve times in the memorandum) on the part of Anderson to give weight to the notion that “airpower” was a new and forward looking concept that embraced the centrality o f an independent air force in the national defense. For a discussion on the uses of the term “air power,” see Maclsaac, “Voices from the Central Blue: The Air Power Theorists.” 150 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction pr