48, Box 201, President Secretary’s Files, Truman Library. 209 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 219 --- Forrestal’s implicit suggestion was that America was already at war with the Soviets, albeit a cold one, and in this context retaliation became synonymous with prevention, or launching a surprise attack on the Soviets to “frustrate an atomic energy attack” on the United States. Not hedging whatsoever in advocating preventive war with a potential “enemy” was Orvil Anderson’s Strategic Bombing Survey Report, Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War. Anderson’s report stated that the American public must be kept “informed with respect to the dangers o f accepting the first blow in a future war.” Air Campaigns  argued further that the American people “must recognize that an overt act o f war has been committed by an enemy when that enemy builds a military force intended for our eventual destruction, and that destruction of that force before it can be launched or employed is defensive 81action and not aggression.” Interestingly, when Admiral Ofstie read the published version of Air Campaigns  he made lacerating marginal comments at many points in the report, but he made no comments on the margins where Anderson advocated preventive war.8 2 The notion of preventive war was not a new concept for Orvil Anderson. As early as 1943 he told an interviewer that if America wanted to “prevent getting hit” by a potential aggressor, it should “hit” first. On 6 August 1945, the same day the United States dropped an atomic bomb on Hiroshima, Anderson told another interviewer that America had to “accept a national policy of prevention. If necessary we have to shoot to do it, but 8 1  USSBS, Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War,  68-69. 8 2  [Admiral Ralph Ofstie’s marked copy of] Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War,  Box 8, Special USSBS Folder, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 21