S Bombing Research Mission,” 29 October 1944, Box 225, Spaatz Papers, Library of Congress. Prior to its name redesignation the Survey was referred to by a number of different titles: “The Strategic Bombing Effects Survey;” “Post- Armistice Damage Evaluation Committee;” “Committee to Survey Results of Combined Bomber Offensive;” “Bombing Research Unit.” For simplicity and lack of confusion I will use the terms Survey, Strategic Bombing Survey, or USSBS to describe the evaluation that the AAF had in mind even though at a ^iven time before 29 October 1944 it was not referred to by that title. '  I acknowledge that in the Chairman’s Summary Report  of the European and later Pacific portions o f the Survey there were passages that addressed the relevance o f air power to national military strategy and policy. But it was only in these two reports that the issue was addressed. In the conduct of their lengthy evaluation and in their numerous other published reports. Survey analysts did not question the relevance of air power: they only evaluated the degree o f its effectiveness. 40 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 50 --- its evaluation of the effectiveness of strategic bombing against Germany (and later, Japan). A truly “impartial” and “unbiased” report, therefore, even though it would be headed by civilians, was never really a possibility. I In May 1944, Edward Meade Earl, special consultant to General Arnold and the AAF, toured the European Theater of Operations discussing operational and strategic problems with AAF commanders. Earle had been a member of the COA and COH and by mid- 1944 had become an influential civilian analyst within the AAF.3  During the tour, Earl met with Major General F.L. Anderson and Colonel Robert Hughes of the United States Strategic Air Forces (USTAFF). Hughes, a senior intelligence officer for the command, told Earle that target selec