l met with Major General F.L. Anderson and Colonel Robert Hughes of the United States Strategic Air Forces (USTAFF). Hughes, a senior intelligence officer for the command, told Earle that target selection was a continuing challenge and he was convinced that military people were not properly qualified to conduct that kind of analysis; it was a job for civilian experts. USTAAF’s deputy commander for operations, General Anderson, also pointed out to Earl that he was very eager to establish a civilian-led group that would evaluate the effects of strategic bombing. Such a study, according to Anderson, was “important for a variety of reasons: for the historical record [and] for the guidance of the air staff in the formulation of overall policies during the rest of the war and during the post war period.”4 Anderson in fact had been part of the early planning for the Survey that began back in March and April within AAF headquarters in Washington, D.C., and England. 3  Michael S. Sherry, The Rise ofAmerican Air Power: The Creation o f Armageddon  (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1987), 194. 4  Interview by Earle with Anderson and Hughes, 1  May 1944, Box 24. Earle Papers, Princeton University Archives. 41 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 51 --- Lieutenant Colonel James B. Ames, assistant to General Anderson, proposed on 28 March that once hostilities in Europe had ceased there should be an “intensive survey in Germany and occupied countries of the results achieved by the Combined Bomber Offensive.’0 In Washington D.C. a similar proposal appeared on the desk of the Assistant Chief of Air Staff for Intelligence, Brigadier General Thomas D. White. One of White’s intelligence assistants, Major Ralph A Colbert, recommended to the General on 27 March that plans should be drawn up for a commission of experts to “conduct an investigation inside Germany which will disclose