nd increase the precision raids against specific industrial targets. Area attacks should resume in full force, argued the JTG, once the preparatory phase had been completed and the ground invasion date drew nearer.3 1  LeMay and Kissner, however, due to operational considerations, wanted to continue with the fire bombings of Japanese cities, which they believed would eventually force Japan to surrender without a ground invasion.3 2  Survey Directors like Paul Nitze agreed that a properly directed strategic bombing program could bring about a decision, and in this sense they were in line with LeMay and Kissner. But since the Survey argued that the best objectives for strategic bombers to attack were basic 5 0  Memo from Kissner to Kuter, “Comments of XXI B.C. on JTG Study ES-S12,” 22 June 1945, 142.66021-12, AFHRA. 5 1  Joint Chiefs of Staff, “Program for the Aerial Bombardment of Japan,” undated, 142.66021-12, AFHRC. 5 2  Craven and Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War IV,  636. M l Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 137 --- industries such as electric power and transportation, they therefore recommended that the AAF use, primarily, precision attacks instead o f area raids.3 3 IV The Survey directors had impressed senior AAF leaders and members of the War Department with their knowledge of air power theory and practice. After the series of meetings with the JTG, they met on 19 June with Secretary of War Henry Stimson, Assistant Secretary of War for Air, Robert Lovett, and Army Chief of Staff General George C. Marshall.3 4  Stimson noted in his diary that the Survey’s “report was of great interest both because of the damage that it showed and the failures that it indicated....” Based on the Survey’s findings on the “differences between the German and Japanese industrial setup,” Stimson asked them to “advise us as to any differences of method  to be used in J