by the AAF, the cumulative effect of ground operations and strategic bombing attacks on other basic industries placed a serious strain on electric power. The Division’s published study, German Electric Utilities Industry Report , argued that had the AAF made power plants “primary targets as soon as they could have been brought within the range of Allied strategic bombing attacks, all evidence indicates that the destruction of such installations would have had a catastrophic effect on Germany’s war economy.”6 9 If the AAF did not direct its strategic bombing campaign against German electric power, it did, by the closing months of the war in Europe, heavily attack German 6 7  Craven and Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War II. Volume II,  362-369. 6 8  Memo from Mitchell to D’Olier, “Importance o f Electric Power Plant Bombing in Japanese War,” 27 July 1945, Box 41, file 383.8, RG 243, NA. 6 9  USSBS, Utilities Division, German Electric Utilities Industry Report,  (Washington, D.C.: USGPO, 13 October 1945), 3. 91 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 101 --- transportation and oil production. General Spaatz, on orders from Supreme Allied Commander General Dwight D. Eisenhower, reluctantly diverted his bombers from strategic attacks on the German war economy to tactical bombing against local railroad facilities in France to support the Normandy landings. Once the Allied forces had established themselves on the continent, the AAF again concentrated its strategic bombers against Germany. But because of the experience gained by using its bombers to attack railroads in France as a part of the Normandy invasion, the AAF saw value in strategic attacks against transportation targets inside of Germany.7 0 Survey analysts accepted the notion that strategic bombers should attack basic industries that linked together the enemy’s war economy. Moreover, it was logical for the