edictions, and evaluations of strategic bombing that used scientific “calipers” instead of historical analysis.7 0  “Calipers” grasped the imponderables of strategic bombing, took them apart and discerned from them cause and effect. Historical analysis, like the one produced by the Committee of Historians, acknowledged the existence of imponderables but allowed them to remain intact. The civilian experts who would come to fill the analytical positions in the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, being fully in line with the American conceptual approach to strategic bombing, adopted the “caliper” framework of analysis for their evaluation of American strategic bombing in World War II. 6 9  Maclssac, Strategic Bombing in World War II,  p. 160. The greater irony in Maclsaac’s book is that while the epilogue contains his criticism o f the Survey for not including historians (aside from the Survey’s organizational historian, James Beveridge) in its ranks, the entire book is a vindication of what Maclsaac calls the “rise and decline o f the theory of high altitude precision bombardment” to “the grim logic of [total] war” (p. 107). The term “grim logic,” meaning the mass bombing o f civilians in urban areas, implies that it was possible to discern logical cause and effect from what the Committee of Historians determined to be in the realm of an imponderable. Maclsaac like the Survey (as I will demonstrate in the next three chapters) conducted their analyses from within the conceptual fold of American strategic bombing thought, and therefore the notion of an “unbiased” account takes on a dubious meaning. 7 0  Interview o f Major General Orville Anderson by Dr. Bruce Hopper, 6 August 1945, p. 1, File 168.7006- 2, AFHRA; Memo from Marshall to Commanding General, Mediterranean Theater of Operations, 3 November 1944, Box 14, RG 243, NA. Strobe Talbott uses the term “calipers” when describing Paul Nitze’s analytical approach to evaluating strategic bombing, see Talbott, The Ma