r accounts available. But Hansell is strongly inconsistent in the way he treats the attacking of morale in his two books with the way AWPD/1 treated it in 1941. In AWPD/1 morale is fourth on the list of primary objectives to attack. The plan accepts morale attacks as a possibility. If, as the plan states, German morale under precision attacks begins “to crack, area bombing of civil concentrations may be effective.” Although the entire plan, after the initial discussion of attacking morale, pays very little attention to it, morale is still listed as a primary objective on page two of the plan. But Hansell in both of his memoir accounts of war planning—  The Air Plan that Defeated Hitler , 1972 and The Strategic Air War Against Germany and Japan,  1986— when recounting AWPD/I, does not include morale in the list of primary objectives. Only in his 1972 book, The Air Plan That Defeated Hitler,  does he mention obliquely (two pages after the first three objectives were listed) that morale was considered as an objective for bombing. 3 6 Once underway in 1945 the Strategic Bombing Survey would continue to emphasize, through its evaluation, the use of strategic bombers to attack war-making capacity while downplaying its affect on morale. 3 7  Memo for the Chief o f Staff, “Munitions Requirements o f the Army Air Forces for the defeat of our potential enemies,” August 1941, File 145.82-1, AFHRA. 25 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 35 --- even though target selection might need adjustment based on further evaluation, the overall conceptual approach to applying strategic air power against the German war machine would not “result in any appreciable change.”3 8  In August 1942, one year after the submission of AWPD-1, air planners produced AWPD-42, “Requirements for Air Ascendancy.” AWPD-42 added to the older list of objectives the destruction of German submarine constr