n it came to defining and applying the lessons of World War II was P.M.S. Blackett, a Nobel prize winning physicist, a creator of operations research, and a member of Britain’s Advisory Committee on Atomic Energy. Blackett’s 1948 book, Military and Political Consequences o f Atomic Energy,  critiqued postwar American perceptions about the absolute nature o f atomic weapons. According to Blackett, the American people had concluded, incorrectly, that the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki had militarily defeated Japan. This led them to the erroneous 2  Brodie to Turner, 28 January 1953, Box 1, Brodie Papers, UCLA Special Collections; also see, Fred Kaplan, The Wizards o f Armageddon  (Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1983), 38. 3  Steiner, Bernard Brodie and the Foundations o f American Nuclear Strategy,  94-98. For a more current use o f the Survey’s findings on electrical systems as targets for strategic bombing, see Thomas E. Griffith. Jr., Strategic Attack o f Electrical Systems,  (A thesis presented to the faculty of the School of Advanced Air Power Studies) (Maxwell Air Force Base: Air University Press, 1994). 4  Brodie to Tanham, 31 July 1957, “Comments on Professor Blackett’s Letter,” Box 1, Brodie Papers, UCLA Special Collections. 217 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 227 --- belief that a future war with the Soviet Union could be decided quickly and decisively with atomic weapons.3  To deny the absolute nature o f atomic weapons, to demystify them, and to assign them a proper military role, Blackett analyzed strategic bombing in World War II to establish his theories on military strategy. In arguing for the indecisiveness o f atomic weapons and strategic air power, Blackett relied heavily on many of the Survey’s conclusions, including especially the European Economic Division’s report, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on the German War Ec