ould be “necessary for the Economic and the Morale Divisions to work together, as closely as possible.”3 2  Nitze’s guidance to the Survey Directors revealed the importance that the Survey placed on the link between strategic bombing’s effect on morale and the entire war economy. For Survey analysts, morale was an important factor to study mainly as it affected the German worker’s willingness and ability to support war production. The Morale Division stated: “The crucial spot in which to examine the effects of lowered morale upon the German war effort lies in war production.” The Division then followed this statement with a question that got at their fundamental reason for studying the effects of strategic bombing on enemy morale: “Did depression in general, and defeatism and disaffection from the Nazi regime in particular, show themselves in lowered industrial production?”3 3 The Morale Division’s methodology for evaluation was somewhat different from the rest of the Survey’s. Because the focus of the Division’s study was on the morale of the German civilian, the data that they collected were made up o f interviews, German wartime documents concerning morale, and civilian mail captured during the war.3 4  Still, 3 1  Area Studies Division, “The Objective of the Area Studies Division,” 12 February 1945, Box 225, Spaatz Papers, Library of Congress. 3 2  Minutes Taken at Meeting Held, 20 January 1945, Box 2, file 001, RG 243, NA. 3 3  USSBS, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on German Morale , Volume  /, 53. 3 4  Ibid., 2-3. 79 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 89 --- in evaluating these sources, the Morale Division reflected the Survey’s reliance on statistical evidence and its quantitative approach toward studying the effects of strategic bombing. In the captured mail and interviews, Division analysts would look for key words or phrases that demonstrated dir