it. But Mets acknowledged in his biography of Spaatz what the General most likely believed: “...the Survey’s evaluation of [Spaatz’s] work was in the main favorable...It explicitly favored precision bombing...It claimed that airpower had been a decisive factor in the war against Hitler...The conclusions o f the USSBS on the 104correctness of precision bombing theory matched those of Spaatz...” The Survey in its by modifying it with the adjective “Allied,” and not “American.” This phrasing, according to Maclsaac, proved the “objectivity” of the Survey because if their reports had not been “impartial” they would have used the adjective “American” to precede the phrase (141-143). Maclsaac’s analysis is flawed and superficial. It fails to take into account the basic facts that the RAF did take up a good part of the strategic bombing campaign against Germany and that the Survey spent a good part of its effort evaluating the results of RAF bombing. How could the two reports have used anything but the adjective “Allied” in light of the basic facts and still claimed at least a modicum of “impartiality”? And AAF leaders probably had no problems with the adjective “Allied” preceding the phrase on air power’s “decisiveness.” In September 1945, when the European Reports were being published, air leaders like Anderson could happily accept the European Survey’s conclusions concerning “Allied” air power and look ahead to the Pacific phase of the Survey where the Survey would only be evaluating “American” air power. 1 0 2  Memo from Galbraith, 19 October 1946, Box 70, Harvard University File, Galbraith Papers, JFK Presidential Library; Galbraith, A Life In Our Times,  226. 1 0 3  Thomas Alexander Hughes, Over Lord: General Pete Quesada and the Triumph o f Tactical Air Power in World War II  (New York: The Free Press, 1995), 310; Gian P. Gentile, “A-Bombs, Budgets, and Morality: Using the Strategic Bombing Survey,” Air Power History  (Spring 1997), 20-31. 1 0 4  David R. Mets, Maste