cause a presidential directive established the Survey and gave it an "official” status, and because the Survey was headed by civilians, ostensibly making it '‘impartial,” the Survey reports have taken on the aura of a document that contains the “truth” about strategic bombing in World War II. In fact, the Survey is a secondary source that interprets the past, but analysts and pundits who have used the Survey in their postwar writings have instead tended to treat it as a primary source. In criticizing such views, retired Air Force General Haywood Hansell once cynically compared the Strategic Bombing Survey to the “Bible.”4 Yet as Clarence Darrow forced William Jennings Bryan to acknowledge in the famous 1925 Scopes trial, the Bible was only one of many 4  Hansell to Maclsaac, 27 July 1970, Box 3, folder 5, Papers of Haywood S. Hansell, U.S. Air Force Academy Library. 3 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 13 --- truths that purported to explain the origins of man. And the Survey contains the “truth” about the effects of strategic bombing against Germany and Japan as the writers of its reports discerned that “truth” through their own attitudes and biases. The first, and only, book-length study of the Survey, David Maclsaacs’s Strategic Bombing in World War II: The Story o f the United States Strategic Bombing Survey , did not appear until 1976.5  It was ironic that such a study was so long in coming considering the influence the Survey was having on postwar scholarship and journalism. Maclsaac accepts the official premise that the Survey conducted an “objective” and “impartial” study of strategic bombing because civilians headed it. Many analysts in postwar writings, therefore, have used Maclsaac’s book as a scholarly confirmation of the Survey’s purported “impartiality,” thereby imposing a sense of “biblical truth” on the Survey’s conclusions concerning strategi