y of strategic bombers could avoid costly naval and ground engagements by attacking the “vital centers” of enemy cities thereby creating terror among the civilian population. The result, according to Douhet, would be a quick, decisive victory for the nation equipped with an independent strategic air force. A casual glance at the title of Douhet’s book, The Command o f the Air , leads one to think that gaining superiority in the air— the ability to fly at will over enemy territory— was the most important objective. But for the Italian, this was only the first, albeit essential, part of a theory of air warfare that ultimately envisioned using airplanes to bomb enemy cities.4  Within those cities, Douhet argued, were primarily two types of objectives to bomb: the morale  of the people and their material  resistance. Munitions factories, transportation networks, and electric power plants, for example, made up material resistance— what commonly became know as the enemy’s war-making capacity. But Douhet made clear that while it might be important to attack the enemy’s industrial capacity to resist, the enemy’s morale would ultimately have to be attacked. The way to break the morale— the will to resist— of the enemy was to bomb cities, killing large numbers of civilians5 3  Meilinger, “Guilio Douhet and the Origins of Airpower Theory,” 28. Meilinger reasonably asserts that Douhet may have paid less attention to target selection because of his belief that the will or morale of the people would be broken by a strategic bombing attack on cities and that the choice of targets therefore within those cites did not require further explanation. 4  Douhet, The Command o f the Air,  35. 5  Ibid., 57-58. 11 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 21 --- American airmen were aware o f Douhet’s theory. As early as 1923 a translation of The Command o f the Air  was being circulated at