part toward the problems that were confronting the Survey. In fact, the General was so pleased with Nitze and Alexander’s plan for the Survey that he had “very little in the way of constructive suggestions to offer.” Fairchild found little to criticize because Nitze and Alexander had built on, not thrown out or created from scratch, the plan for the evaluation of strategic bombing that the AAF had established prior to November 1944 when the civilian heads joined the Survey. Like the organization on “paper,” Nitze and Alexander’s Survey would consist o f a number of Divisions that would analyze the effects o f strategic bombing on certain war time industries, the overall economy and morale, and would determine the value of area vs. precision bombing. General Fairchild confirmed that the critical objective o f the Survey would be to evaluate the effects of strategic bombing against “industrial structures in general,” with the end result being an assessment of “how good” the overall strategic bombing offensive worked against Germany .6 3 It was within this conceptual framework that sought to evaluate the 6 4  Memo from D’Olier and Perera for The Vice Chairman, U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey, Memo on “Conference with Major Muir S. Fairchild,” 28 October 1944, Box 2, file 337, RG 243, NA. 6 5  Fairchild to Alexander, 30 December 1944, Box 28, file 319.4, RG 243, NA; Conference Held Widewing, 8 November 1944, Members present: D’Olier, Alexander, Anderson, McDonald, Koenig, and Perera, “Purpose of Conference: To Discuss Requirements and Plans for the Survey,” Box 225, Spaatz Papers, Library o f Congress; Nitze, From Hiroshima to Glasnost,  26; Perera, Leaves From My Book o f Life, 126-127. 65 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 75 --- relative effectiveness of strategic bombing that Nitze, Alexander and the others would conduct their evaluation. While shuttling betwee