cumented very poorly, making it difficult to determine exact references. This quote Talbott most likely took from a postwar interview of Nitze by the U.S. Air Force Oral History Interview, Albert F. Simpson Historical Research Center, Office of Air Force History, 1981. 56 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 66 --- President Roosevelt sent a letter to Secretary Stimson on 9 September 1944 formally requesting that he organize a study of the Combined Bomber Offensive; its value, according to the President, ‘‘depends on the quality and impartiality of the group selected to make the study...”40 About two months later on 3 November, Stimson in turn sent a formal request to Franklin D’Olier asking him, “pursuant to the President’s letter [of 3 September,]” to head “an impartial and expert study of the effects of our aerial attack on Germany and report thereon.” D’Olier agreed and the Survey was officially underway.4 1 V Franklin D’Olier, President of Prudential Life Insurance and first national commander of the American Legion, however, was not the first choice for Chairman of the Survey. Arnold and Spaatz had initially tried to get Harvard University President and National Defense Research Committee member, James B. Conant, to take the post.4 2  Conant declined because Vannevar Bush, Director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development, would not approve his release.4 3  Other prominent civilians considered by Arnold and Spaatz were: New York Times  publisher, Arthur Sulzberger; Donald David, Dean o f the Harvard Business School; Robert Sproul, president of the University of 44California; and Karl T. Compton of MIT. They all declined for various reasons. Some 4 0  Roosevelt to Stimson, 9 September 1944, Box 14, RG 243, NA. 4 1  Stimson to D’Olier, 3 November 1944, Box 14, RG 243, NA; Perera, Leaves From My Book o f Life,  121; Beveridge, History o f the Uni