ted to the Senators. Japan, argued Nitze, “would have surrendered prior to November 1  in any case; the atomic bomb merely accelerated the date at which Japan surrendered.”1  This striking remark made by Nitze, positing that the combat use of the atomic bomb was unnecessary in forcing Japan to surrender unconditionally, raised no questions or responses from the members of the Committee. 1  Testimony by Paul Nitze, Senate Special Committee on Atomic Energy , Atomic Energy, 15 February 1946, Seventy-Ninth Congress, p. 530. 137 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 147 --- The Pacific phase of the Strategic Bombing Survey was different, and more complicated, than its European evaluation of strategic air power. When conducting their evaluation in Europe, Survey analysts followed closely behind the advancing Allied armies into Germany. Many European Survey conclusions about the effects of strategic bombing were shaped while the war was still being fought. In the Pacific, in contrast, the Survey’s entire evaluation was conducted after the war had ended. And in the Pacific, unlike Europe, surrender occurred without a land invasion. Therefore, in many of the Pacific Survey’s published reports, analysts like Paul Nitze felt compelled to explain the effects of strategic bombing in bringing this about. President Truman further complicated matters for the Survey when he instructed them to evaluate “all types of air attack” against Japan and to submit the reports directly to the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy.2  In Europe the Survey was fundamentally an AAF inspired evaluation, with the published reports only going to the Secretary of War. By requiring the Survey to evaluate not only the Army Air Forces use of air power against Japan, but also the Navy’s, President Truman opened the door for an intense inter-service rivalry between the AAF’s representative on