ted without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 103 --- dismissing its failures.7 3  The Directors had understood from the beginning that the Chairman’s Office would produce a final report that summarized the findings of their respective Divisions.7 6  Since Cabot’s draft would be published as the Chairman’s Over­ all Report,  Galbraith decided that it must represent accurately the Survey’s findings. He and Ball recommended to Alexander that Cabot’s draft report be rewritten. A heated debate followed over the draft report with Galbraith and Ball on one side and Cabot, Colonel Guido Perera and General Orvil Amderson on the other.7 7 Lurking beneath the dispute over Cabot’s draft were the conclusions that Galbraith’s influential Economic Division had reached on the overall effects of strategic bombing on the German war economy.7 8  The Division’s findings demonstrated that the German war 7 5  Memo from Galbraith for Professor Black, undated, [October 1949], Box 70, Harvard University File, John Kenneth Galbraith Papers (hereafter referred to as Galbraith Papers), John F. Kennedy (JFK) Library. What appears to be an early version of Cabot’s draft dated 25 July 1945, shows Galbraith’s claims to be correct. In the report’s section on air power in the European war, it recognized the influence of Douhet and Mitchell on American air power theory. And the report presented what it called “the accomplishments of air power...as an independent striking force.” See, Office of the Chairman, “Draft of Final Survey Report,” 25 July 1945, Box 28, file 319.4, RG 243, NA. 7 6  Beveridge, History o f the United States Strategic Bombing Survey , 222. 7 7  Galbraith, A Life In Our Times, 225-226.  Although I could not find any contemporaneous documents showing that a controversy over Cabot’s draft report happened, it is referred to in too many other sources to dismiss. Hershberg, in James B. Conant  (611-612), discusses it in the context of the 1949 attempt by the Harvard