n air power in World War II. I argue that since the Survey accepted the American conceptual approach to strategic bombing and made it their framework for analysis, a truly impartial evaluation was never really a possibility. My study also explores the subde interplay of advocacy and assessment throughout the Survey’s formal evaluation from January 1945 to June 1946 and the use of the Survey’s published reports in the postwar years. By 1939, Major Muir Fairchild, an instructor at the AAF’s influential Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS), had refined a conception of air power that sought to use strategic bombers against the “vital elements” of the enemy’5 ;  war-making capacity. Once strategic bombers had destroyed these “vital elements,” Fairchild and other airmen believed that the enemy’s will to resist would subsequently collapse. Air power theorist Guilio Douhet noted almost twenty years before Fairchild taught classes at ACTS, that determining which “vital elements” to bomb would become the essence of air power strategy. But it was the civilian industrialists and economists, not the airmen, who were really the experts at air power strategy because the civilians better understood the workings of a modem industrialized economy. The American conceptual approach to strategic bombing, therefore, created a need to have civilian experts conduct target selection and evaluation— the essence of air power strategy. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey was an outgrowth of this requirement. During World War II, when the AAF was using strategic air power over the present battlefield, they were also preparing for a future fight. But that future fight would not involve airplanes dropping bombs on targets in enemy cities. Instead, it would be a 5 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 15 --- postwar crusade for an independent air force. The airmen knew that a civilian-led e