ilbert, chief of the National Income Unit of the Department of Commerce, took over as Director of the Overall Economic Effects Division.6  Paul Nitze lamented to his mother that the “best men” like Alexander and Galbraith, “had to leave” the Survey, making his work as vice-chairman more difficult.7  As in Europe, Franklin D’Olier remained the titular chairman o f the Survey, but he was even more inactive. Drawing on the European experience, the Survey relied mostly on interrogations of key Japanese military and government officials in its evaluation of the effects of strategic bombing against Japan.8  Unlike the Germans, the Japanese leadership kept very few industrial records (many were destroyed by the Japanese prior to the American occupation of the home islands) for the Survey to analyze when studying the effects of 4  Beveridge, History o f the United States Strategic Bombing Survey,  frames 639-644. 5  Galbraith, A Life In Our Times,  240-241. 6  Beveridge, History o f the United States Strategic Bombing Survey,  frame 820. 7  Nitze to Mother, 3 February 1946, Box 165, folder 6, Nitze Papers, Library of Congress. 8  Nitze, From Hiroshima to Glasnost,  40-43; Maclsaac, Strategic Bombing in World War II,  118. 139 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 149 --- strategic bombing against Japan’s war economy. The Urban Areas Division, for example, had to rely on the responses to questions distributed to over 8000 Japanese industrial and civic leaders between October and November, 1945. The Division’s experts used the statements on the completed questionnaires as their primary source of evidence for their conclusions concerning the effects of strategic bombing on the economies of Japanese cities.9  Emphasizing the importance placed on the interrogations of Japanese leaders, Galbraith lectured Survey analysts in October to show more patience “with each interrogati