anguage as Anderson, told Arnold that the Survey would have a profound influence on the “future employment of air power.” Arnold agreed with Spaatz, and by June had recognized the “ever increasing importance” of the Survey.1 4  Airmen below Spaatz and Arnold appreciated the Survey’s potential for establishing the theoretical base for a future 1 3 Spaatz to Arnold, 13 June 1944; and Kuter to Spaatz, June 1944, Box 225, Spaatz Papers, Library of Congress. 1 4  Anderson to Spaatz, 3 April 1944; Spaatz to Arnold, 5 April 1944, Beveridge, frames 1363-1365. Arnold to Spaatz, 5 June 1944, Box 225, Spaatz Papers, Library o f Congress. 45 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 55 --- independent air force. The Assistant Chief of Staff for Personnel, Colonel John H. McCormick pointed out to General Kuter that: “Although a survey of results o f the Combined Bomber Offensive appears highly desirable with respect to post war air policy, this office questions its advisability with respect to future offensives in the Japanese theater for several reasons: The full weight of the Air Force will be thrown against Japan regardless of the relative value of strategical bombing [against Germany]....” McCormick’s report went on to lament how the Survey would draw away manpower from other AAF missions.1 5  Yet the thrust of his argument to Kuter was emblematic of the desire of senior AAF officers to use the Survey’s results as a tool for creating a postwar independent air force. II The results of the Survey, however, would have to be arrived at separately from the British who were also creating an organization to evaluate the effects of strategic bombing against Germany. The British wanted the Americans to conduct a joint investigation of the Combined Bomber Offensive carried out by the RAF and AAF.1 5  But differences with the British over bombing doctrines and the desire by the America