ve the Soviet Union could launch a long range conventional bombing attack against the United States. The great oceans that separated Russia and the United States were still America’s best lines of defense and the Navy’s wartime mission was to control that defensive area, according to Admiral Ofstie.3 2 Navy officers also argued that carrier based aviation would be more capable of carrying “the war to the enemy.” Admiral Chester Nimitz noted in his 1947 valedictory address that for “several years to come,” the Air Force’s bombers would not be able to make “two way trips between the continents.”3 3  The Navy’s carrier-based aircraft would be the most logical choice, according to Nimitz, to conduct strategic bombing operations against the Soviet Union. Responding to Nimitz’s remarks, General Spaatz lamented to Symington that an article in a New York newspaper covering the Nimitz valedictory highlighted the Admiral’s position that air craft carriers and their planes could “deal shattering blows to an enemy’s industrial potential far inland in the event of war...” Spaatz was upset because in his mind the Navy was going far beyond the notion that naval aviation would only be used to support “fleet operations.” Spaatz interpreted the Navy’s public statements as an attempt to convince the public that the Navy should be 34allowed to take part in strategic bombing operations. Spaatz’s concern was justified. The Navy’s Assistant Secretary for Air, John Nicholas Brown, was reported to have testified to the Eberstadt Committee on defense 3 1  Symington to Sullivan, 28 February 1949, Box 9, Symington Papers, Truman Library. 3 2  Remarks o f Rear Admiral Ralph A. Ofstie, “Navy Day,” 1948, Box 2, Speech File, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 3 3  Quoted in Barlow, Revolt o f the Admirals,  54. 3 4  Spaatz to Symington, 7 January 1948, Box 12, Symington Papers, Truman Library. 187 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permi