mmoral. Admiral Ofstie told Committee members that the United States was morally wrong for bombing civilians during World War II and Americans would be equally immoral if they had to kill civilians in a war with the Soviet Union. According to the Admiral, the American people were in “strong opposition to military methods [area bombings of cities] so contrary to our fundamental ideals.”7 1 What was striking about the moral tack of the Navy’s critique was that the majority of senior naval officers followed it. Admiral Radford “condemned” the potential area bombing of Soviet cities and did not “believe in [the] mass killing of noncombatants” based on what he had learned since the war. Admiral Thomas Kinkaid referred to the strategic bombing of Germany and Japan as “terrorizing bombardments” that violated established laws of war. When discussing with Committee members the appropriate targets if the United States had to fight the Soviet Union, Admiral Blandy stated that “no 7 1  Testimony by Admiral Ralph A. Ofstie, House Armed Services Committee, The National Defense Program Unification and Strategy,  7 October 1949,402-408. 205 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 215 --- sane man would derive any satisfaction from killing women and children” because it constituted the “slaughter of innocent people.”7 2 Yet some troubling contradictions emerge out of these 1949 hearings that are worth considering. If the issue of morality was so important to Naval officers, why did it not emerge before the 1949 supercarrier cancellation and defense budget reductions? By the late 1950s, the Navy was developing a strategic nuclear-tipped missile launched from submarines that would be predominantly used as an area weapon against enemy cities. What happened to the morality issue? Taking the longer view strongly suggests that the Navy’s 1949 moral critique of the Air Force was only a t