ircraft and to drop bombs on critical targets. However, the targets to attack under the American conception were economic in nature. To assess how the destruction of any given target would affect the overall war capacity of the enemy nation required a level of analysis that airmen, by their training, were unable to provide. Naval and ground commanders o f the same period did not have the same problem. For an army officer commanding an infantry division, for example, the target or objective to attack was generally similar in nature to his own command. It would probably be another infantry division or smaller sized unit trying to block his advance. To analyze the target and its importance, therefore, was something that the ground officer was trained to do. The ground commander could determine success or failure by the amount of ground gained, and the level of destruction of the enemy and his own forces. For American airmen, target selection and evaluation was a much more complicated and ambiguous task. Compared to the ground officer, airmen were generally not attacking targets similar to their own men and equipment.1 0  Airmen could not quickly determine success or failure in terms of physical destruction, because of the short amount of time over the target and the distance separating the airplane from the ground. 9 Robert T. Finney, History o f the Air Corps Tactical School, 1920-1940  ; Haywood Hansell, The Strategic Air War against Germany and Japan: A Memoir  (Washington, D.C.: US GPO), 13. 1 0  I acknowledge that according to Douhet’s theory and the American conceptual approach to bombing, strategic bombers might have to attack either the enemy air force on the ground, in the air, or in production factories. But this was only the Fust step in achieving command of the air that would allow the bombers to attack targets in enemy territory. 13 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_adv