hibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 69 --- another COA analyst Major Barton Leach (Leach had formerly been a professor o f law at Harvard University), recommended to D’Olier that the Survey be divided into eight to ten analytical divisions that closely paralleled those of the COA. Perera also made suggestions to D’Olier for the Division heads. Most of the men that Perera recommended to D’Olier he had known before the war or during his time with the COA.3 0 George Ball worked with Perera on certain COA reports and in September 1944 the AAF had assigned him to help Major General Jacob E. Fickel’s Air Evaluation Board study the operational and tactical aspects of the AAF’s strategic bombing campaign against Germany.3 1  Prior to his work with the AAF, Ball had served as a legal advisor to Lend-Lease Administrator, Edward R. Stettinius. From that position Ball moved into the newly formed Foreign Economic Administration and acted as the chief economic advisor for a negotiating mission to Cuba in 1944. With Ball’s background in foreign national economies and experience with AAF evaluation projects, Perera and D’Olier considered him an ideal candidate to head the Survey’s Transportation Division.3 2  Ball accepted and joined the Survey in early November. Duty with the Survey, like his assignment with the Lend Lease program, provided Ball with a sense of national service and as he later confided, put him “where the action was.”3 3 Another friend of Perera that he and D’Olier wanted as a Survey Director was Paul Nitze. Educated at Hotchkiss and then Harvard in economics and sociology, Nitze was part of the elite East Coast patrician class that would eventually supply many of the 5 0  Perera, Leaves From My Book o f Life,  120-124; Maclsaac, Strategic Bombing in World War II,  25. 5 1  Ibid., 124; Ball, The Past Has Another Pattern,  43-45; Furtrell, Ideas Concepts, Doctrine,  144-145. 5 2  Beveridge, History o f the United States Strategic Bo