ry Affairs, Department o f Armed Forces, Department o f Military Security,  79th Cong., 1st Sess., 14 December 1945, 612. 7  Ibid., 613. 8  USSBS, Summary Report (European War),  107. 9  Statement by General Carl Spaatz, Senate Committee on Military Affairs, Department o f Armed Forces, Department o f Military Security,  15 November 1945, 344-345. 176 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 186 --- General James H. Doolittle echoed these same Air Force sentiments when appearing before the Committee. He referenced an unnamed “study” by the Survey that analyzed the effects of strategic bombing on Japanese cities (perhaps the findings from the Pacific Survey’s Urban Areas Division). General Doolittle stressed the level of destruction in over forty Japanese cities wrought by B-29 attacks and the strategic bomber’s decisive role in the war with Japan: “The Navy had the transport to make the invasion of Japan possible; the Ground Forces had the power to make it successful and the B-29 made it unnecessary.” The essence of General Doolittle’s argument was that strategic air power had changed the face of warfare by obviating the need for a ground invasion of the Japanese home islands. The past, argued General Doolittle, proved that “Air, due to the facility and speed with which we move through it and the inherent limitations of land and sea, is the medium through which the weapons of the future will travel.”1 0 Throughout 1946 and into 1947, the battle lines hardened between the Air Force and the Army on one side, and the Navy on the other, over the unification of the armed services and the independent status of the Air Force. The festering issue of naval air power was at the center of debate between the Air Force and the Navy. In a November 1946 speech to the Air Force Association, General Doolittle wondered why the United States needed “two air forces any more than we ne