s from the Pacific Survey, The War Against Japanese Transportation  (59) and The Effects o f  Strategic Bombing on the Japanese War Economy  (6), argue that Japan was a defeated nation before the main weight o f the strategic bombing campaign began against the Japanese home islands. The implicit argument in the latter two reports is that the anti-shipping campaign may have been the decisive factor in Japan’s defeat. The European Summary Report  (8-12) and the Pacific Survey Summary Report  (19) argue that the ideal targets for strategic bombing were oil, transportation, and electrical power facilities. 203 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 213 --- Admiral Ralph A. Ofstie, appearing again before the Committee, pointed out what naval officers saw as the Air Force’s misconception of the past and its flawed vision for future defense strategy. He began his testimony, like other Naval and Marine officers before him, by citing Survey findings that demonstrated the impact strategic bombing had on German and Japanese “military targets,” such as oil and transportation. With this historical foundation laid, Admiral Ofstie then explained the Navy’s method for using strategic bombing in a potential war with the Soviets. Since, as Ofstie believed, atomic attacks on Soviet cities would be ineffective based on World War II experience, the first Soviet targets that should be hit in the initial stages of a war were the ones that proved most decisive in World War II, oil and transportation. The Navy, according to Admiral Ofstie, because of its unique ability to control sea lanes and project airpower, would have the primary role “in such offensive actions.” For Ofstie, lessons from the past only proved the incorrectness of the Air Force’s methods and the correctness of the Navy’s. He asked: Must the Italian Douhet continue as our prophet because certain zealots grasped the fals