e production. Because the Japanese economy was different from Germany’s in that Japan’s represented “an island industrial core which derive[d] its material largely from overseas,” an attack against shipping and coke for steel production would have a powerful effect on “the entire structure of Japanese industry.”3  This early COA report did not recommend using incendiary attacks against Japanese cities to destroy war industry. But the vulnerability of Japanese cities, constructed largely out of wood, to fire was widely understood. As early as 1939, the Air Corps Tactical School had informed its students about the combustible nature of Japan’s major industrial cities. In February 1942, General Arnold had his staff prepare target analyses that highlighted the vulnerability of Japanese cities to fire. Always looking for new ways to use strategic bombers, General Arnold considered the possibility of fire raids to destroy Japanese industry.6  As a result of the General’s interest, the military chairman of the COA, 4  Perera, Leaves From My Book o f Life , 114. 5  Memo from Perera to Gates, “Progress Report,” 24 September 1943, History of the COA, file 118.01, AFHRA. 6  Crane, Bombs, Cities, and Civilians,  126-127. 106 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 116 --- Brigadier General Byron Gates, asked the head of the Office of Scientific Research and Development, Vannevar Bush, to provide the COA with personnel to form a sub­ committee to analyze “the susceptibility to area attack o f Japanese cities and industries located therein.” Gates recommended that one of Bush’s OSRD experts on incendiary weapons, Dr. Raymond H. Ewell, be involved in the study.7 The COA submitted its study in November 1943 to General Arnold. The study noted that area attacks on Japanese cities would cause production loss from “direct damage to industrial facilities and housing [and] the diversio