n targets inside of Germany.7 0 Survey analysts accepted the notion that strategic bombers should attack basic industries that linked together the enemy’s war economy. Moreover, it was logical for them to conclude that the AAF’s attacks on German transportation and oil production “brought about a total disintegration of the German economy.”7 1  Nitze, working together with Ball and other key Directors, had determined that there was no doubt about “the vulnerability of the German [war production] system to air attack.” It was simply a matter of selecting the right “vital factor” for destruction, and then keeping it destroyed by continuous air attack: “The German experience strongly supports the position that one objective be selected as the basic target system...” Transportation, according to Nitze, was one of those “vital factors.” He posited that the “lateness” of the AAF’s attack on transportation “prevented a clear-cut demonstration of its effectiveness as a means of attacking the enemy’s basic economy.” But even though the attacks on German 7 0  Craven and Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War II, Volume Three,  73-78, 651-653; also see Alfred C. Mierzejewiski, The Collapse o f the German War Economy, 1944-1945: Allied Air Power and the German National Railway  (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1988). 7 1  Memo from D’Olier to Secretary of War, “Preliminary Review of Effectiveness of the Combined Bomber Offensive in the European Theater of Operations,” 11 June 1945, Box 41, file 383.8, RG 243, NA. 92 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 102 --- transportation began later in the war, as he put it, they “preceded the final collapse of the enemy.„in a most significant way.”7 2 The Transportation Division, which was under the Directorship of George Ball, published its final report, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on German Transportation , in