ress. 171 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 181 --- 1947, as the Government Printing Office was releasing copies of Air Campaigns,  D’Olier boasted to Nitze how Secretary of War Patterson had told him of the great importance the Survey reports had proven to be with the unification of the armed services. " ‘He [Patterson] said that repeatedly after many hearings our Report had been mentioned, with 98particular reference to our insistence upon unification.” The Survey’s call for unification of the armed services included a call for a separate “third establishment” which became, as a result of the National Security Act of 1947, the United States Air Force. The airmen’s dreams had been fulfilled. 9 8  D’Olier to Nitze, 25 July 1947, Box 165, Nitze Papers, Library of Congress. 172 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 182 --- CHAPTER 6 A-BOMBS, BUDGETS, AND THE DILEMMA OF DEFENSE Symington -- Do you realize that in accepting our new jobs and in the event of war with Russia, we will be hanged as war criminals if we lose? There had better be some real honest to God thinking about what we need to avoid being on the losing side. The U.S. has already set the pace for the atomic bomb, strategic bombing, and hanging war criminals. This is no time to temporize very long with old established prerogatives o f the Services, nor to tolerate inter-Service rivalry, friction, jealousy. Whoever does not cooperate should be obliterated. Carl Spaatz Commanding General, Army Air Forces [1947]1 Anticipating his “new job” as Chief of Staff o f the United States Air Force, General Carl A. Spaatz forcefully emphasized to the soon-to-become Secretary of the Air Force, W. Stuart Symington, that they must “obliterate” any opposition to the Air Force’s plans for the postwar defense est