tressed their joint conclusion that enemy civilian morale was not a productive target, that while morale can be adversely affected by air attack, there can be no predictable translation of morale effects into behavior effects.” Although Maclsaac is correct in his explanation’s o f the Survey’s position on the effects of strategic bombing on morale, he is wrong to argue that the JTG, even by July 1945, emphasized the importance of using area raids to attack Japanese morale. The JTG was primarily concerned with destroying Japanese finished war material that could be used to defend against a ground invasion. Michael Sherry, in The Rise o f American Air Power,  cites Maclsaac’s flawed explanation as further proof that the AAF had Japanese morale as its primary objective for strategic bombing. 122 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 132 --- meeting. Out of those 75 pages only about one page reflected discussions over morale.4 3 George Ball insisted that he did not “think that the question of morale in and of itself [was] important. It doesn’t mean anything unless it is translated into political action or a decrease in production.”4 4  The Survey’s Morale Division Director, Renis Likert, was left back in Germany and did not attend the conference. The European Survey did not evaluate the effects of strategic bombing on Germany’s political decisions during the war. Instead, Survey members directed their analysis toward the effects o f strategic bombing on the German war economy. They believed that a strategic bombing campaign directed against the “basic industries” of the enemy’s war making capacity could be decisive, but only in terms of that war making capacity, not the civilian population’s morale or the political will to resist. The European Survey’s Summary Report  argued that “Allied air power was decisive in the war in Western Europe. Hindsight inevitably sugge