ombing attacks in the European theater were against “basic industries” like electric power, oil, and transportation.” Because of the perceived Japanese ability to shift their production of war industries to different areas within a given “urban concentration,” the JTG argued that “strong air forces can be exploited better against broad objectives than against narrow ones regardless of their calculated significance.” “Broad objectives” for the JTG meant “urban concentrations” of factories that produced war material. And by June of 1945, based on the results of the XXI Bomber Command’s fire raids against Japanese cities, the JTG believed that an effective method for the AAF to use against “urban concentrations” of industry were area attacks. The group noted that certain targets were “nominated for high level attack; others for low level attack.”2 6  In the vernacular of the AAF in the closing months of World War II in the Pacific, low-level attacks came to mean area or fire raids against “urban concentrations” of industries while high-level attacks meant precision bombing of specific industries. But both were methods, according to the JTG, for the AAF to attack the ability o f Japan to resist an American land invasion. II The Directors of the Strategic Bombing Survey agreed that both area and precision attacks were methods for strategic bombers to destroy the enemy’s war-making capacity. But based on their findings in Europe, Survey Directors concluded that the decisive targets of the enemy’s war-capacity were basic industries like oil, electric power, and 2 6  Joint Chiefs o f Staff, “Presentation of a Recommended Target Program,” undated, 142.6601-12, AFHRA. 115 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 125 --- transportation. The JTG, however, believed that the final goods produced by the war making-capacity— ammunition, aircraft, naval ships, etc.— should be the p