ongress to buy. General Spaatz acknowledged that “200 plane loads” of 28conventional bombs would “accomplish the same result” as one atomic bomb attack. For the airmen and their seventy-group program, the nemesis was in the math. There was also a nemesis for the airmen in the conception put forward by military strategist Bernard Brodie that the atomic bomb had become the “absolute weapon.” The Air Force’s seventy-group program was based largely on the World War II experience of the Army Air Forces. Yet Brodie argued that the atomic bomb seemed to have erased the World War II pattern of strategic bombing because of the new weapon’s huge destructive capacity. Brodie believed that World War II had proven the decisiveness of strategic bombing, but the atomic bomb had changed the way strategic bombing would be conducted in a future war. Probably Brodie’s most challenging argument to the Air Force’s proposed seventy-group program was this: “Thus far the chief purpose of our military establishment has been to win wars. From now on its chief purpose must be to avert them. It can have no other useful purpose.”2 9  Yet the seventy-group program that 2 7  Ibid., I. 2 8  Ibid., 2-3. 2 9  Bernard Brodie, “The Weapon,” and, “Implications for Military Strategy,” in The Absolute Weapon, Bernard Brodie,  ed., (New York: Harcourt, Brace and Company, 1946), 52, 70, 76; also see Bernard 185 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 195 --- Generals Spaatz and Vandenberg presented to the Air Policy Board was not a program fundamentally based on the ability o f the Air Force to deter a war with the Soviets. Instead, the mission of the proposed seventy group Air Force would ultimately be to fight and win a war against the Soviet Union by relying heavily on conventional strategic bombing. Symington told the Congressmen of the Air Policy Board: “The more air you can get us, the happier we a