61; Galbraith, A Life In Our Times , 225-226. 3  Bereta to Bowman, 1  May 1945, Box 28, file 319.4, RG 243, NA. 4  A good reference guide to Survey reports and studies is Gordon Daniels, A Guide to the Reports o f the United States Strategic Bombing Survey  (London, 1981); also see, USSBS, Index to Records o f the United States Strategic Bombing Survey,  (June, 1947). Many o f the European Survey reports contain two publication dates, 1945-1946, and 1947. This was due to the renumbering of all Survey published reports in 1947. The European published reports referred to hereafter were completed and published in late 1945, although some have a 1947 publication date. The contents of these reports are unchanged from the first edition. See, Maria B. Guptil and Maida Loescher, “Final Reports of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey,” undated; this summary was prepared for the micro-film collection of RG 243 by the National Archives. 70 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 80 --- For example, The European Survey’s Morale Division and Area Studies Division concluded that strategic bombing did not lower German morale enough to force Germany to surrender, and that RAF area attacks against German cities were largely ineffective in reducing German war production.3  But the Chairman’s Over-all Report,  that summarized the findings of the Division studies, argued that air power, when applied against appropriate target systems, was “decisive in the war in Western Europe.”6  How could strategic bombing on one hand be indecisive against German morale and German cities, yet on the other still claim to be decisive in the war against Germany? Considering the American strategic bombing concept, the most effective way to break the enemy’s will to resist was not to attack morale directly by killing people but instead to break the enemy’s capacity to resist by damaging the “basic