ith strategic bombers would destroy their capacity to resist: “The industrial nation has grown and prospered in proportion to the excellence o f its industrial system, but, and here is the irony of the situation, the better this industrial organization for peacetime efficiency the more vulnerable it is to wartime collapse caused by the cutting of one or more of its essential arteries. How this is accomplished is the essence of air strategy in modem warfare.”2 2 Since the individual was so closely linked to the industrialized state, airmen believed that by attacking the key components of that industrial state, the enemy’s will to resist would almost certainly have to collapse. This became axiomatic among American airmen. But airmen only offered a loose explanation of the link between strategic bombing attacks on industrial capacity and the purported break-down of the enemy’s will to resist. Instead they focused more clearly on objectives, or targets, that were tangible and easy to quantify: the “vital links” of the enemy’s war making capacity. Determining these “vital links” became the “essence” of air strategy. Wilson, quoting Douhet, stated: “The art of air strategy consists mainly in choosing the objectives.”2 3 ~ Memo by Lieutenant Colonel Donald Wilson, “Long Range Airplane Development,” November 1938, File 168.7012-20; and unnamed author, “The Unwaged War,” File 168.7012-18, Laurence S. Kuter Papers (hereafter referred to as Kuter Papers), Air Force Historical Research Agency, Maxwell AFB, Alabama (hereafter referred to as AFHRA); Greer, Development o f Air Doctrine, 1917-1941,  109. 2 3  Quoted in Hansell, The Air Plan that Defeated Hitler,  45. 19 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 29 --- ACTS instructor Major Muir Fairchild, who later became the Chief of Plans for the Army Air Forces (AAF) in World War II, had refined the American conception o f air p