ed with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 7 --- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS British historian Eric Hobsbawm noted that a person can make a contribution to historical knowledge if he or she has the “capacity for very hard work and some detective ingenuity.” While researching and writing this dissertation I have had the capacity to work hard, yet without the patient mentoring and tutoring of my dissertation adviser, Professor Barton J. Bernstein of Stanford University, I would have never pursued my topic o f research or completed the dissertation. I owe him a lot. I also owe a great deal to Lieutenant Colonel Conrad C. Crane of the United States Military Academy (USMA) History Department who became a proxy-second reader and taught me a great deal about air power history . Colonel Robert A. Doughty, head of the USMA History Department, provided me with important advice and criticism along the way and with a semester off from teaching to complete the dissertation. Many others deserve mention. Colonel Judith A. Luckett was a role model for me in scholarship and leadership. Colonel Charles F. Brower IV read parts of the dissertation and taught me a great deal about teaching and historical analysis. From my first days as a graduate student at Stanford through three years of teaching history at West Point, Lieutenant Colonel Gary J. Tocchet has been a mentor and friend. My second reader at Stanford, Professor Gordon H. Chang, forced me to think about the dissertation as a whole and how to better tie the chapters together. A number of discussions with Professor Dennis Showalter about bombing in World War II helped me to refine my overall argument in the dissertation. Major Christopher Kolenda read the entire thesis iv Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 8 --- and provided me with valuable