e capabilities, could only be used against large cities. According to Blackett, the relative inaccuracy of contemporary delivery systems and the bomb’s overwhelming destructive power made atomic weapons inappropriate for destroying smaller “precision” targets such as industrial factories or transportation centers. He therefore concluded that the most efficient use of atomic weapons would be against large, highly populated cities. The United States, consequently, would have to target large urban areas in a major war with the Soviet Union. Using the Survey’s conclusion that urban area attacks did not substantially reduce Germany’s war production in World War II, Blackett contended that gnuclear attacks on large Soviet urban areas would have the same negative result. The Mew York Times ’  military correspondent, Hanson Baldwin, an Annapolis graduate, relied on the Pacific Survey Summary Report  to support his argument that the combat use of the bomb was unnecessary. In his 1949 book, The Great Mistakes o f the War,  Baldwin used the often-cited conclusion from the Summary Report  that, due primarily to conventional strategic bombing, Japan would have surrendered very probably by 1  November and certainly by 31 December 1945 even if the United States had not dropped the atomic bomb. He cited this conclusion together with another from a Pacific Survey report, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on Japan's War Economy,  to demonstrate that the anti-shipping campaign had effectively undermined the Japanese war economy before the atomic bombings of 6 and 9 August 1945.9 8  Ibid., 24, 55-56. 9  Hanson W. Baldwin, The Great Mistakes o f the War  (New York: Harper and Brothers, 1949), 101, 105- 107. 219 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 229 --- Among the first to use the Survey’s findings to defend Truman’s decision to drop the bomb was former Secretary of War Henry L. S