mplete desperation. The air raids also caused widespread destruction and deprivation not only in the cities but throughout the Japanese 68homeland. But when it comes to assessing the effectiveness of the area attacks on 6 7  USSBS, Overall Economic Effects Division, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on Japan's War Economy. 59. Galbraith, in his memoirs, A Life In Our Times,  231, also gives equal importance to strategic bombing and naval blockade in critically reducing Japan’s war production. 6 8  USSBS, Urban Areas Division, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on Japanese Urban Economy (Washington, D.C.: USGPO, March 1947), vi, 24. 160 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 170 --- Japanese war production, this report becomes less favorable to area bombing. Indeed, the report’s recurring theme is that the Japanese economy was already defeated before the AAF began its air campaign: “As in Germany, the air attacks against Japanese cities were not the cause of the enemy’s defeat. The defeat of Japan was assured before the urban attacks were launched...The insufficiency of Japan’s war economy was the underlying cause of her defeat.”6 9 This conclusion, which downplays the effectiveness of urban area attacks on Japan’s war production, is often followed, strangely, by statements giving much weight to the importance of area attacks on lowering Japan’s morale and will to resist: “The raids brought home to the people the realization that there was no defense against the Allied aircraft; that nothing could prevent the wholesale destruction of every inhabited area in Japan and that further resistance was futile.”7 0  The implicit argument here is that urban area attacks had a more decisive impact on morale and its influence on the Japanese leadership to accept surrender than on the destruction of Japan’s war economy. But the Pacific Survey report, The Effects o f Strategic B