apanese cannot exercise control.”6 3  The JTG’s reliance on area raids to destroy Japanese end products reflected their belief that strategic bombing should be directed at ultimately preparing the way for a successful American land invasion o f fortress Japan. The JTG did agree, though, with the priority that the Survey plan placed on attacking Japanese transportation. In fact the Group called for an “overwhelming attack upon rail transportation and coastwise shipping to disintegrate the Japanese home islands 6 2  Ibid., “Japanese Rail Transport as a Target for Strategic Bombing.” undated, Box 41, file 383.8, RG 243, NA. 6 3  Memo from Lovett to the Secretary of War, 3 1  July 1945, with attached “Report on USSBS and JTG Conferences,” Aircraft File, Record Group 107, Office of the Secretary o f War (hereafter referred to as RG 107), NA; Craven and Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War If,  624-625. 131 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 141 --- industrially; as an economic entity; and as a final defense line.”6 4  The Survey’s alternate plan asserted that, given time, a properly designed strategic bombing campaign eliminating Japanese transportation could be “decisive on enemy military capabilities.”6 3 Implicit in the Survey’s plan was that somehow, once the decisive attacks against transportation had broken Japan’s capacity to resist, the war would end without a land invasion. Yet Nitze’s alternate strategic bombing plan never explicitly promised that Japan would surrender, unconditionally. It is also worthwhile to note that neither the Survey’s alternate strategic bombardment plan nor the conferences held between the Survey and the JTG in June 1945 ever mentioned specific numbers of casualties for the planned invasion o f Japan. Nitze recalled in a 1994 interview, that he “thought the 500,000 U.S. casualties” grossly underestimated the number of troops th