conclusions that were based on an “impartial” study of the facts that looked toward the future of the Air Force, rather than the past.6 0 For the other Survey Divisions, Perera and D’Olier selected prominent American industrialists and specialists. Professor Harry F. Bowman of the Drexel Institute of Philadelphia would lead the Physical Damage Division. Psychologist Rensis Likert of the Department of Agriculture would head the Morale Division. An active participant in civil 5 7  Beveridge, History o f the United States Strategic Bombing Survey , 408. 5 8  Perera, Leaves From My Book o f Life , 130; Memo by General Thomas D. White for Assistant Chief of Air Staff, Plans, “Survey of Results of Combined Bomber Offensive,” 7 May 1944, Box 225, Spaatz Papers, Library of Congress. 5 9  The extent of General Anderson’s influence over Survey conclusions and the influence by Rear Admiral Ralph Ofstie of the Navy will be discussed in Chapters 3 and 5. 6 0  Interview with Major General Orvil Anderson by Dr. Bruce Hopper, 6 August 1945, Orvil A. Anderson Papers (hereafter referred to as Anderson Papers), file 168.7006-2, AFHRA, 1. 62 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 72 --- defense issues, Colonel Frank McNamee Jr., was selected to head the Civil Defense Division. The Director of the Aircraft Division would be vice-president of the Curtiss Wright Aircraft Corporation, Theodore P. Wright. The position of Survey Secretariat would go to Justice of the Superior Court of Massachusetts, Charles C. Cabot.6 1 By mid-November 1944, Perera and D’Olier had brought together an extremely talented group of civilian experts that Orville Anderson remembered as a “good echelon of men,” with a “low order of prejudice,” but more importantly for the General the Survey Directors certainly did not have “Army ego.” 6 2  The challenge that lay ahead during the remaining two months of 1944 woul