vidence and its quantitative approach toward studying the effects of strategic bombing. In the captured mail and interviews, Division analysts would look for key words or phrases that demonstrated direct or indirect “spontaneous expression[s] of lowered morale.” For example, if a civilian explicitly mentioned the word “bombing” (rather than implicitly) with regard to lowered morale, that would weigh more heavily in their assessment. It was significant, according to the Division, that fourteen percent of captured German civilian mail contained “direct expressions of lowered morale.”3 5  Being able to quantify strategic bombing’s effect on German morale fit comfortably with the notion of the Survey being a “scientific” study. The Morale Division’s field teams followed closely behind the advancing Allied Armies into Germany, interviewing civilians who had experienced first hand the effects of strategic bombing. In order to draw out as much information as possible, Division analysts used drugs to relax their interviewees. By 1944, it had become common practice in the Army’s medical service to treat soldiers with “battle fatigue” or “exhaustion” with sedatives like pentathol or morphine to dampen their painful combat memories, thereby allowing them to talk about their experiences with a psychiatrist.3 6  Some of the Morale Division’s medical officers were naturally drawn from the Army medical service. According to one Survey medical officer, the Division had initially been using “morphine” to “render people comatose,” but the morphine had the disadvantage of being 3 5  Morale Division, “Analysis of Captured Civilian Mail, 8 June 1945, Box 17, file 300.6, RG 243, NA. 3 6  Albert E. Cowdrey, Fighting For Life: American Military Medicine in World War II  (New York: The Free Press), 142; Stephen Ambrose, Citizen Soldiers  (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1997), 329-330; Medical Department, United States Army, Neuropsychiatry in World War II  (Washington D. C.: Office of the Su