re decisive impact on morale and its influence on the Japanese leadership to accept surrender than on the destruction of Japan’s war economy. But the Pacific Survey report, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on Japanese Morale , argues that lowered morale, resulting from conventional strategic bombing, was not the decisive factor that forced the political leadership to accept surrender. According to the report, low morale and apathy toward continuing the war from the civilian population were not the decisive factors that defeated Japan: “Throughout the small nation the effects of Allied bombings were general more than specific and were not confined to the target areas. The drop in morale which took place throughout the country was not the 6 9  Ibid., v. 7 0  Ibid., vi. 161 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 171 --- factor that defeated Japan.” The report acknowledges that regardless o f the low level of morale the Japanese people would still have continued fighting and working to support the war effort had the Emperor so desired.7 1 The Survey’s morale report does acknowledge that morale of the Japanese people influenced, to varying degrees, the political leadership in its decision over whether to continue fighting or terminate the war. Members of the ruling elite, usually the militarists, might have had some concern about public morale but they also believed that the Japanese people, regardless of their demoralized state, would comply with the decisions made by the political and military leadership. The report concluded that morale (either political or public) was not decisive; rather, it was only “one important factor 72among several” in the defeat of Japan. Three conflicting issues emerge from the pages of various reports o f the Pacific Survey: 1) Approximately seventy percent of AAF attacks against the Japanese home islands were against urban areas; 2) th