c Bombing Survey to act independently from the British Bombing Survey. 29 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 39 --- this task.”4 9  On the one hand, the committee would not offer to General Arnold a firm date for a land invasion made possible by strategic bombing. Yet on the other hand, the Committee concluded strongly that at some point in the future, with relentless determination and dedication of resources, American strategic bombers “might” produce the result that the General desired. IV Various agencies working for and within the AAP would produce more studies evaluating the effects of strategic bombing on the ability of Germany and Japan to continue fighting. Indeed the Committee of Operations Analysts recommended to General Arnold that “there should be a continuing evaluation of the effectiveness of air attack on enemy industrial and economic objectives in all theatres for the information of the appropriate authorities charged with the allocation of air strength.”3 0 One such study was conducted by a group called the Committee of Historians in late 1943, at the request of General Arnold to evaluate the effects of allied bombings on German war potential and to determine whether or not Germany “could be bombed out of the war during the first three months of 1944.” General Arnold desired the Committee’s report to be a “completely objective study, from a civilian and not a military point of 4 9  Memo for Arnold from the Committee of Operational Analysts, “Report of Committee of Operations Analysts with Respect to Economic Targets within the Western Axis,” 8 March 1943, reproduced in James Beveridge, History o f the United States Strategic Bombing Survey,  Unpublished four-volume typescript. Microfilm copy from the AFHRA (hereafter referred to as Beveridge), vol I, frame 1339-1340, 3-4. 5 0  Ibid., p. 3. Other agencies that took part in target selection and