e, action. In a very troubling, but truthful way, Orvil Anderson was one of the few military officers who understood the dilemma, explained it publicly, and advocated a strident solution to the dilemma. The contradiction also demonstrates how the Survey, by its published reports and the ideas of its erstwhile analysts, reflected the American conceptual approach to strategic bombing and the dilemma that conception posed for American security in the postwar world. Strategist Bernard Brodie wrote a personal note to Orvil Anderson shortly after the General’s relief from his post as President of the Air University. Brodie told Anderson that the relief had presented the General’s view on preventive war to the nation "in a 89much more forceful and commanding way...than would otherwise have been possible.” When Brodie wrote this letter to Anderson, the strategist was preparing to leave Yale University to become a special advisor to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, General 90Hoyt Vandenberg, on air power doctrine and military strategy. General Anderson maintained a file containing the correspondence he received after his relief from the Air 8 9  Brodie to Anderson, 2 September 1950, file 168.7006-3, Anderson Papers, AFHRC. 9 0  Steiner, Bernard Brodie and the Foundations o f American Nuclear Strategy,  47. 214 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 224 --- University, and the only letter there from an influential military establishment member, either civilian or military, was from Bernard Brodie. Perhaps Brodie understood probably better than anyone else the dilemma that atomic weapons posed for American security and the logic of General Anderson’s public statements on preventive war. In a lecture to the Air War College two years after Anderson’s relief, Brodie referred to “preventive war” as an “alternative strategy to be considered, and [he blamed his] social scienc