tegic air campaign against the Japanese home islands failed “to recognize the potency of strategic air bombardment as a decisive 4 8  JTG, “Japanese Urban Areas General Analysis,” [5 July 1945], file 142.66022-79, AFHRC; XXI Bomber Command, “Monthly Activity Report,” 1  July 1945, Box 16, Curtis E. LeMay Papers (hereafter referred to as LeMay Papers), Library of Congress. 4 9 JTG, “Current Air Estimate,” 1  August 1945, file 142.6603-2, AFHRC; also see memo from Norstad to Eaker, with attached report by the Air Staff in response to General Arnold’s request “to have a study prepared considerring factors essential to intensification of the bombing effort against Japan,” 29 June 1945, Box 11, RG 341, NA. 126 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 136 --- force by itself.” Kissner did not want to split up his command’s strategic bombing campaign into “‘preparatory’  and ‘participating’ phases with respect to plans for invasion by surface forces,” as the JTG suggested. Instead he recommended to Kuter that the XXI Bomber Command should “proceed according to its own time table” and not be made “contingent upon, land invasion plans. It is considered that the strategic bombing effort should be planned as an end within itself rather than as a means to an end, namely, invasion. The differences between the JTG, the key leaders of the XXI Bomber Command, and Survey Directors over the necessity of the ground invasion of the Japanese home islands shaped their views over strategic bombing methods and objectives. The JTG in fact, during the “preparatory phase” of their bombardment plan, wanted Curtis LeMay’s command to curtail the number of fire raids against “urban concentrations” and increase the precision raids against specific industrial targets. Area attacks should resume in full force, argued the JTG, once the preparatory phase had been completed and the ground invasion dat