r the Survey’s chronicler, Major James Beveridge). Instead the Survey sought experts who had experience “in economic research and analysis, and with either a college background indicating work in this field and/or research experience with an organization like the National Bureau of Economic Research...or other groups occupied with the collection and analysis of data in the economic and industrial field.”4 9  Civilian experts with a strong background in economics and industry would fit comfortably into the organizational structure that the airmen had constructed for the Survey’s analysis. They could be counted on to provide a “scientific evaluation of all the facts” without the “headaches” that the Committee of Historians had given to General Arnold when they conducted their evaluation o f strategic bombing a year earlier. Colonel Guido R. Perera, an original COA member and an elite Boston lawyer before the war, would be instrumental in influencing Chairman D’Olier in selecting the Division Directors and in making modifications to the organizational structure that Koenig had set up. Perera first met D’Olier in late October in Washington, D.C. Perera, along with service rivalry that became apparent as the Survey moved to the Pacific; Second, the three civilian Directors (Ball, Nitze, and Galbraith) produced memoir accounts of their duty with the Survey, and they (plus the two military Directors) have archival collections that contain in varying degrees excellent primary documents pertaining to the Survey and their work on it. 4 9  Memo by Major W.S. Harris, “Description of Research Personnel Required for Work of the Strategic Bombing Effects Survey,” Box 225, Spaatz Papers, Library of Congress. 59 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 69 --- another COA analyst Major Barton Leach (Leach had formerly been a professor o f law at Harvard University), recommended to D