rmed in the minds of many Congressman, and many Americans, that the atomic bomb, delivered by Air Force bombers, was the decisive weapon in modem combat.5 6 Curiously, the reports o f the Strategic Bombing Survey provided little help to Air Force officers during the B-36 hearings. The most significant use of Survey reports was in a negative way by Air Force Chief of Staff, General Hoyt S. Vandenberg. He told Committee members that there “had been many attempts to discredit the value of strategic bombing by quoting [out-of-context] excerpts from the Strategic Bombing Survey.” 5 7  This type of critique would become quite common with Air Force proponents 5 5  Testimony by General Curtis L. LeMay, House Committee on Armed Services, Investigation o f the B-36 Bomber Program,  81st Cong., IstSess., 11 August 1949, 152-153. 5 6  Ibid. 5 7  Testimony by General Hoyt S. Vandenberg, House Committee on Armed Services, Investigation o f the B-36 Bomber Program , 12 August 1949, 188-189. For examples of the “attempts” that General 198 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 208 --- when attacking the credibility of Survey ‘‘abusers.” According to air proponents, the “consensus” conclusions of the Survey were to be found in the Chairman’s Summary Reports , not in the many other Division studies. Indeed, when Air Force officers referred to the Survey during unification hearings, it was usually either the Pacific or European Summary Reports  that proclaimed the decisiveness of air power in World War II. When detractors of airpower deviated from those reports into the murkiness of the other 58supporting studies, air proponents would often claim Survey “abuse.” There were extreme cases, however, when detractors of the Air Force’s method of strategic bombing clearly made outlandish arguments based on Survey reports. The B-36 Hearings ended in late August 1949, but Committee Chairma