arfare...”2 1  Admiral Ofstie, however held a different view. In September 1945, he stressed to members of his Naval Analysis Division that their mission was to provide a thorough study of all air operations in the Pacific that brought the United States within “striking range of the 1 8  Futrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine,  47. 1 9  Shiner, Foulois and the U.S. Army Air Corps,  28. 2 0  I have not yet been able to read the transcripts of the Mitchell trial where Anderson testified on his behalf. I am assuming that Anderson would have made such statements. Once I review Anderson’s testimony, I will either let my remarks stand or recast them based on the evidence. 2 1  Handwritten notes by General Anderson, undated, file 168.7006-4, Anderson Papers, AFHRA. This folder contains about 25 pages of handwritten and some typed notes by the General. Some of the notes appear to be early drafts of Anderson’s proposed conclusion section for the Pacific Survey Summary Report  and possibly draft sections of his Division’s Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War.  The most likely dates for these notes are early 1946 to the middle of 1947. 143 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 153 --- Japanese homeland, and without which there would have been no successful conclusion o f the war...” In Ofstie’s conception, the crucial events that led to the defeat of Japan were the navy’s campaigns in the Pacific that relied heavily on carrier based air power. Anticipating the importance that the Pacific Survey’s published reports would have on future defense organization and policy, Ofstie stated that the “Survey’s effort...may well be the basis for the major decisions respecting our post-war national security.”2 2 In the immediate months following the end of World War II in the Pacific, American military leaders did their best to point out that victory over Japan was a team effort and that no s