y restored to full production nor could stocks be readily replaced.” It was the basic industries that linked together the entire German war economy that proved to be the most valuable target systems for American strategic bombers to attack, argued Nitze.6 6 6 4  Ibid.; Record of Telephone Conversation, D’Olier and Alexander, 27 July 1945, Box 22, file 311.3, RG 243, NA; Galbraith to Nitze, 18 October 1949, Box 165, Nitze Papers, Library of Congress. 6 5  Nitze, From Hiroshima to Glasnost,  35-36; Ball, The Past Has Another Pattern , 62; Galbraith, A Life In Our Times,  205. 6 6  Nitze, From Hiroshima to Glasnost,  34. 90 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 100 --- With the war in Germany over, the United States concentrated its effort toward the Pacific. Wanting to explore the lessons learned from the European theater for possible use against Japan, the AAF asked Survey Directors to summarize their findings. Survey analysts had honed in on two basic industries, or target systems that, according to them, either would have been decisive or were decisive in the war against Germany. The Combined Bomber Offensive had removed electric power as a priority target for strategic bombers. The airmen believed that the German electric power system was too decentralized and could easily recover from strategic bombing attacks.6 7  Yet analysts from the Survey’s Utilities Division argued that based on their interrogations of “German power plant and systems operators...that the bombing of power plants and primary sub­ stations would have been the quickest and most effective way to have destroyed 68Germany’s war economy.” Even though German electric power was not directly targeted by the AAF, the cumulative effect of ground operations and strategic bombing attacks on other basic industries placed a serious strain on electric power. The Division’s published study, German Electri