rces to repair and replacement; casualties; dispersal of industries; [and] evacuation of [the] civilian population.” By using these factors for its evaluation, the analysts could then “compare variances between planned and actual production of plants in raided areas with like variances of undamaged plants in non­ 4 8  Chapter four will explore the Joint Target Group’s thinking on area attacks. 4 9  “Outline of Final Survey Report,” 26 July 1945, Box 14, RG 243, NA. 85 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 95 --- raided areas,” thus providing them with a reasonable indication of the overall “production loss caused by the area raid.”3 0 Note that they considered in their analysis worker absenteeism from factories and casualties, suggesting that they were interested in the effects of area raids on the morale o f workers. But the Area Division used worker absenteeism and casualties as analytical categories to determine how area raids affected the ability of workers to contribute to war production. Damage caused to workers’  homes from area attacks would usually force those workers to be absent from the factories to repair their homes, or if need be, move to new ones. Consequently, absenteeism prevented civilians from going to work and thus lowered the output of factories. The term “casualties” to the Area Division meant the number of civilian workers killed or wounded by area attacks. Like worker absenteeism, casualties caused by area raids would affect the war making capacity of the city by preventing people from going to work in the factories.3 1 The Survey, because of its focus on Germany’s war-making industry, never addressed the large issues of mass killing and mass casualties from bombing. The focus was always for more narrow: Did the casualties and death disrupt and cut production? Thus, the killing or injuring of children or unemployed older folks, or worker