ound the same time as Stimson’s that also uses the Survey to support an argument favoring the President’s decision to use the bomb against Japan, see Karl T. Compton “If The Atomic Bomb Had Not Been Used,” The Atlantic Monthly  (December 1946), 54-56. 220 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 230 --- intentional rhetorical strategy urged by close advisors.1 1  Stimson’s implicit critique, though, was still potent because it suggested that Nitze had incorrectly interpreted his evidence. Franklin D’Olier knew that Nitze’s Pacific Survey’s counterfactual conclusion raised troubling questions about the end of World War II in the Pacific. Shortly after Harper’ s Magazine  published Henry Stimson’s article on President Truman’s decision to use the bomb, University o f Chicago theologian Fred Eastman told D’Olier that he was “struck by the difference between “the two explanations for Japan’s surrender.” Eastman wondered if Stimson had read the Pacific Survey report (that argued the bomb was unnecessary) “before [Stimson] wrote his article?” D’Olier informed Eastman that he had never read Stimson's article.1 2  D’Olier chose not to confront the two contradictory statements concerning Japan’s surrender and the necessity of the atomic bomb. Instead, he simply provided Eastman with a restatement of the presidential directives that established the Survey. It is unclear why D’Olier did not try to resolve the apparent contradiction between Stimson’s and the Survey’s explanation for Japan’s surrender. Back in December 1944 Franklin D’Olier gave a welcome speech to many of the Survey’s newly arrived analysts. He used a metaphor to explain to them his concept of strategic bombing. According to D’Olier, tactical bombing took off the arms and legs of the “cow,” but strategic bombing destroyed the whole “cow,” arms and legs and all.1 3 1 1  Barton J. Bernstein, “Seizing the Contest