d strategic air power, Blackett relied heavily on many of the Survey’s conclusions, including especially the European Economic Division’s report, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on the German War Economy.  It argued that most German war production increased up to mid-1944 in the face of Allied bombing attacks. After the June 1944 Normandy invasion, according to the Survey, strategic bombing did cause considerable damage to German industry, but it was the cumulative effect of the ground offensive that moved rapidly into the heart of Germany as well as strategic bombing that produced Germany’s collapse.6  In light of this Survey conclusion, Blackett argued, that even after acknowledging “the great developments of air power, it is clear that Germany’s defeat in the second world war, as in the first, was brought about primarily by her huge loss in man-power and material incurred in the land battles... Air power played, of course, a decisively important role in all the great land battles.”7  In Blackett’s judgment, strategic bombing had only produced decisive results in conjunction with the “great land battles” of World War II, and military strategy based solely on the purported decisiveness of atomic weapons did not take into account this “lesson” of history. 5  Blackett, Political and Military Consequences o f Atomic Weapons,  26-27, published in the U.S. in 1949 as Fear, War, and the Bomb. 6  USSBS, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on the German War Economy,  13-14. 7  Blackett, Political and Military Consequences o f Atomic Weapons,  26-27. 218 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 228 --- Blackett also argued that atomic bombs, because o f their widely destructive capabilities, could only be used against large cities. According to Blackett, the relative inaccuracy of contemporary delivery systems and the bomb’s overwhelming destructive power made atomic weapo