ared in a letter to Galbraith that: Cabot was an “imbecile,” and Perera “a low-grade S.O.B.” See Baran to Galbraith, 12 October 1949, Box 70, Harvard University File, Galbraith Papers, JFK Library. 9 2  Ball to Galbraith, 1 1  October 1949, Box 43, Ball Papers, Princeton University Archives. 9 3  Maclsaac, Strategic Bombing in World War II,  143; also see “final” memo from Galbraith, undated [October 1949], Box 70, Harvard University File, Galbraith Papers, JFK Library. 98 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 108 --- Force. When asked by the interviewer about using Survey studies to determine whether or not the AAF should have switched from day to night attacks in the European war, and the implications for the future, Anderson responded: “You can never solve a war by past historic examples.” The General believed that the traditional use of “historical examples” by the Army and Navy to plan and fight present and future wars had kept air power from achieving its full, independent potential. The Survey should prevent the other services from pulling air power as a “three dimensional force back into a two- dimensional employment,” which, professed Anderson, was “hinged to our past thinking, making it an ancillary weapon to surface forces, restricting its freedom to fight a three- dimensional war.” The Survey should write its reports, believed Anderson, with a clear 94eye to the future, not the past. Anderson was much less worried than Perera about certain Survey conclusions concerning AAF targeting choices that would make their way into the Chairman’s final report. In fact Anderson sidestepped the Survey’s critique of the bombing of air frame production by arguing that the AAF still achieved its objective of gaining command of the air by defeating the German Luftwafe in aerial battle. This, according to Anderson in classic Douhet fashion, allowed the AAF “to exploit