ed without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 229 --- Among the first to use the Survey’s findings to defend Truman’s decision to drop the bomb was former Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson. In a widely read 1947 article in Harper’ s Magazine  (actually authored by his young aide, McGeorge Bundy, whose role was not revealed at the time), Stimson cited the Survey report, Japan s Struggle to End the War,  and concluded: “All the evidence  I have seen indicates that the controlling factor in the final Japanese decision to accept our terms of surrender was the atomic bomb.”1 0 Stimson’s statement is an early example of how conclusions drawn from the narrative portion of Japan’ s Struggle to End the War  could be much different from the ending portion o f the report which stated verbatim (from the Summary Report)  Nitze’s early- surrender counterfactual. But for Stimson, the narrative in Japan's Struggle to End the War,  by itself, indicated that the Japanese cabinet was deadlocked over whether to accept the Potsdam terms or continue the war in August 1945, and thus the atom bomb made the decisive difference. Unlike the Survey, Stimson concluded from the narrative that the United States had to drop the bomb to end the war quickly and save American lives. Stimson, though, did not explicitly seek to rebut the Survey’s “official” explanation (even though Stimson’s explanation contradicted Nitze’s counterfactual conclusion) for Japan’s surrender. He sought to avoid controversy and formal argumentation in an 1 0  Henry L. Stimson, “The Decision to Use the Bomb,” Harper’ s Magazine  (February 1947), reprinted in Barton J. Bernstein., The Atomic Bomb: The Critical Issues  (Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 1976), 1-17 (italics mine). For another essay published around the same time as Stimson’s that also uses the Survey to support an argument favoring the President’s decision to use the bomb against Japan, see Karl T. Compton “If The Atomic Bomb Had Not Been U