stal, 1  October 1948, Box 8, Symington Papers; and Summary of “B-36 Changes Europe’s Air Plans,” from Aviation Week,  28 March 1949, Box 11, Sullivan Papers, Truman Presidential Library. 196 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 206 --- Two critical events crystallized the debate between the Navy and the Air Force that resulted in the B-36 investigation by Vinson’s House Armed Services Committee. In March 1949, the newly appointed Secretary of Defense, Louis Johnson, canceled production of the Navy’s cherished supercarrier, the USS United States. The Navy responded with a deliberate attack on the strategic vision and performance capability of the Air Force’s newest bomber, the B-36. In the midst of this service battle over future weapon systems, President Truman announced in August 1949 the reduction of the 1951 fiscal year defense budget to 13 billion dollars, about 2 billion less than the services had originally planned.5 4 With representative Carl Vinson as Chairman, the House Armed Services Committee opened the B-36 hearings in August 1949. The air officers who testified naturally wished to disprove the charges that the B-36 was not the most economical bomber for the defense dollar and further to establish the efficacy of their method of strategic bombing in the postwar world. The atomic bomb and the Air Force’s ability to deliver it was an important part of the Air Force’s case to Congress. General Curtis LeMay, who at the time of the hearings was commanding the Strategic Air Command (SAC), provided expert testimony and convinced most Committee members that the B-36 was a sound bomber capable of 5 4  Barlow, Revolt o f the Admirals , 222-224. It is also worthwhile to point out the intense dislike, and mistrust, between Symington and Radford. Symington cried to Forrestal that “no civilian” was going to tell Radford what “to do with respect to the Navy, that