mbing of this scope and intensity is already producing a situation which fear of the consequences of continuing the war is becoming greater than fear of the consequences of defeat.” The report argued that even though the limits of endurance of the German people had not been reached, “the German will to resist, already subjected to the cumulative effect of years of strain, is almost certain to be broken as the result of intensified mass bombing, and further defeats on land, at sea, and in the air.”3 9 Indeed, the central thesis to the historian’s forty-two page report was that even though morale attacks held the greatest possibility for strategic bombing, there was still “no substantial evidence that Germany [could] be bombed out o f the war during the early months of 1944. The final collapse of Germany requires large-scale invasion operations 5 8  Ibid., 24-25 (underlining in original). 5 9  Ibid., 32-33. 34 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 44 --- against the continent o f Europe.” Germany would then “be unable to maintain a prolonged resistance to Anglo-American ground operations or to prevent the complete destruction of her industries, her cities and her communications by aerial bombardment.” But the decisive event that would create the conditions inside of Germany to compel surrender would be the land invasion of the European continent.6 0 This was probably not the conclusion that General Arnold wanted to hear, because it placed air power fundamentally as an adjunct, or supporting arm, to ground power. In fact Edward Mead Earle, who had been overseeing the historian’s work, complained that the historians had been “one big headache” to him. Their final report, lamented Earle, was “highly unsatisfactory” to him and also to General Arnold.6 1  Although General Arnold agreed with the overall Allied strategy that called for an invasion of the European Contine