orld War II should be interpreted in light of the AAF’s objective  in the European theater: to prepare the way for a ground invasion of the continent, and not the destruction of German industry. With this premise, Perera then discredited Galbraith’s conclusions and resurrected the validity of his COA targeting recommendations for the AAF. Since, according to Perera, German front-line military strength~not the destruction of German industry— was the objective for the AAF, he argued that the attacks on ball­ bearings and air frame production were effective because they reduced the capacity of the 89German army to resist invasion. But Perera’s memoirs allowed the present to cloud the reality of the past. In December 1944, as the Survey was preparing to conduct its evaluation, Perera lectured new Survey analysts on the purpose of American strategic bombing. According to Perera, American air power intended to strike a blow “directly 8 7  Memorandum for General Hansell from COA, “Plan for Completion of the Combined Bomber Offensive of 5 March 1944,” 12 March 1944, History of the COA, file 118.01, AFHRC. 8 8  USSBS, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on the German War Economy,  5-14; USSBS, Aircraft Division Industry Report,  5; USSBS, The German Anti-Friction Bearings Industry,  1-2; USSBS, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on German Transportation,  3-4; USSBS, German Electrical Utilities Industry Report,  3, found in Maclsaac, ed.. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey, Volumes l-Vl, (New York: Garland Publishers, 1976), 8 9  Ibid., 97 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 107 --- against the industrial heart of the enemy [Germany], the mainsprings upon which its armies depend.”9 0  The “mainspring” which Perera referred to, was, naturally, German war-making capacity. Judge Cabot’s interest in the Chairman’s final report rested on his desire, as George Ball reca