n, was concerned with Japan’s wartime economy, and the “greater Asia co- prosperity sphere.” Captain T.J. Hedding, a member o f Ofstie’s Naval Analysis Division, asked Konoye questions about the military’s role in Japan’s political and economic structure during the war.5 0 Nitze’s 12 March “Very Preliminary Draft” of the Summary Report  contained the early surrender counterfactual as it would appear (except for some slight grammatical modifications) in the 1  July published report. The only noteworthy change was the location o f the counterfactual within the overall report. The March drafts of the Summary Report  had placed the early-surrender counterfactual at the end of the report in the concluding remarks. But in April, a subsequent draft had placed it at the end of a short narrative on “Japan’s Struggle to End the War,” which preceded the report’s conclusions and recommendations.3 1  Nitze most likely moved the counterfactual because it fit better with the narrative on Japan’s attempts to end the war rather than with the report’s future looking conclusions and recommendations.3 2 so  Ibid., 21-24. 5 1  For the March drafts see note #s 25 & 26 above. USSBS, “Preliminary Draft o f Chairman’s Report,” 10 April 1946, USSBS Records, Microfilm 1655, Roll 1, frame 1365. It appears that it was in April when the first narrative section on “Japan’s Struggle to End the War,” appeared in a Summary Report  draft. This may have been due to a meeting between President Truman and D’Olier and Nitze on 29 March 1946. At that meeting the President could conceivably have requested the Survey to include an explanation for Japan’s decision not only to attack the United States at Pearl Harbor in 1941 but also to end the war in 1945. In July 46 the Chairman’s Office would publish a separate report, Japan's Struggle to End the War, that seems to have expanded on the original section in the Summary Report. 5 2  Admiral Arleigh Burke, and assistant to Ofstie, argued in 1949 that the early