ulty, Air University), February 1983 (Available at the Maxwell Air Force Base Library). Watson wrote this paper as a student at the Air War College. His advisor, ironically, was David Maclsaac. Watson notes at the beginning of the paper that the AAF realized early on the value the Survey would have in shaping future defense policy, but he never considers the implications of the airmen’s parochial interests in shaping Survey conclusions. 6 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 16 --- strategic bombing. Those published reports would help them fight the future battle of air force independence. Within the American conception, though, disagreements did occur over the most effective methods for strategic bombers to use when attacking the enemy’s war-making capacity. Recommending a strategic bombing plan for the air campaign against Japan, Survey Director Paul Nitze had concluded, based on his studies in Europe, that the best method for strategic bombers would be precise attacks against Japanese transportation and electrical power facilities (precision bombing). Other Army Air Forces (AAF) targeting agencies, however, believed that a more effective method would be to bomb large areas of Japanese cities using incendiary weapons (area bombing). The objectives of both these bombing methods could have been either to lower morale by killing Japanese civilians or to destroy Japanese war-making capacity. But in the minds of Survey analysts and targeting planners, morale as an objective did not necessarily have to be synonymous with area bombing. When conducting its evaluation of air power in the Pacific, in addition to studying the effects of area bombing against Japanese cities, the Survey also assessed the Navy’s use of air power against Japan, and the effects of the atomic bomb. The Pacific Survey had to wrestle with the fact that, unlike Germany, Japan was forced to surre