s conducting a fighting retreat in Europe, that would hopefully hold the Soviets at the Rhine River. The massive American ground invasion of the Soviet Union envisioned in the PINCHER series became an unrealistic concept based on the force structure of the American Army in the late 1940s. Finally, the Soviet explosion o f its first atomic device in 1949 had an impact on war planning. Historian David 4 2 Joint Strategic Planning Group, “Broiler, 11 February 1948,” in America's Plans for War , vol 6 , 6. 4 3 lbid., 6, 175-182. 191 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 201 --- Rosenberg has demonstrated that the Joint Chiefs in their plans became increasingly concerned with “retarding” and “blunting” Russia’s ability to occupy Western Europe and attack the United States with atomic weapons.4 4 Yet the core concept in almost every war plan and study during these years was a quick and devastating strategic air attack, relying heavily on atomic bombs, to destroy the industrial structure of the Soviet Union. No external threat, international event, domestic issue, or interservice wrangling over budgets would change this conceptual approach to fighting modem wars. Consider the May 1948 war plan CRANKSHAFT that followed BROILER. Although in CRANKSHAFT the Chiefs made some important modifications from earlier plans concerning America’s desire to defend Western Europe, the war-fighting approach in CRANKSHAFT shows remarkable continuity with both the BROILER and PINCHER series. CRANKSHAFT’S  mission statement read: “To impose the National War Objectives of the United States on the USSR.”4 5  In order to force the Soviet Union to accept American objectives, CRANKSHAFT called for creating “conditions within the USSR which will insure the abandonment of Soviet political and military aggression.”4 6 The way to do this, as CRANKSHAFT pointed out, was to “initiate an air-offensiv