Suitable to the Current Strategy of the Japanese War,” 23 December 1944, file 142.6602-1; and. Joint Target Group, “Selected Target Clusters Suitable As Alternative Targets For Area Bombing,” 30 December 1944, file 142.6602-2, AFHRA. I ll Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 121 --- high physical vulnerability and important industrial facilities.”1 8 The objective for area attacks, according to the Group, was “industrial concentration[s] in principal urban areas.” Within those “urban areas” were specific war industries like aircraft production, steel factories, and ammunition plants. The targets contained in the “industrial concentrations” could be attacked with incendiary or precision bombing, depending on operational and target factors. Area attacks, therefore, were a method, like precision bombing, to destroy the war industry in Japan’s largest cities. The Group realized that area attacks would kill “workers.” But causing terror was not the primary purpose of area attacks, according to the JTG. Instead area attacks would produce industrial loss consisting “of direct damage to factories and their equipment...and of time lost by workers through the disorganizing effects of de-housing, casualties, disruption of utilities services, and general administrative disorganization.” 1 9 A major recipient of the JTG’s analyses was Brigadier General Haywood Hansell’s XXI Bomber Command. The XXI had been flying bombing missions against Japan out of Tinian Island, in the Mariana chain, since November 1944. Hansell’s command conducted mostly precision bombing missions against specific Japanese industrial targets. As a former instructor at the Air Corps Tactical School and an architect of precision bombing doctrine, Hansell felt that he could effectively attack Japanese war-making capacity using precision bombing methods.2 0 1 8  Joint Target Group, “Japanese Urban Areas: Ge