Anderson on numerous occasions if his Division would have a general summary of Army Air Force activities in the Pacific. According to Ofstie, Anderson often replied that he would have such a report to Ofstie “at the next meeting,” 87or “in a few weeks.” It was not until late 1946 (about four months after the Survey had officially finished its work, but still maintained a small staff under LTC G.L. McMurrin to oversee remaining administrative matters) that Orvil Anderson submitted a report, “Over-All Air Effort in the War Against Japan,” to Nitze, who had recently taken a position in the State 8 8Department. On Christmas eve Nitze fired off a brisk reply to LTC McMurrin telling him not to publish Anderson’s report. The Survey, according to Nitze, had promised the Naval Analysis Division that it would not publish the Military Analysis Division’s over- 89all report because it denied the navy’s request to publish their overall report. D’Olier, 8 6  Quoted in Maclsaac, Strategic Bombing in World War II,  128. 8 7  Ofstie, “USSBS History,” 9 September 1949. 8 8  Ibid. 8 9  Nitze to McMurrin, 24 December 1946, Box 166, Nitze Papers, Library of Congress. 168 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 178 --- who had recently returned to the position o f president o f Prudential Life Insurance, g nagreed “ 100%” with Nitze’s decision. Anderson’s passion for the Survey to publish a report that would laud the accomplishments of the AAF in the Pacific war and state explicitly air power’s role in the postwar defense establishment produced another report, The Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War,  in early 1947. Once Ofstie read Anderson’s draft o f Air Campaigns,  he immediately told Nitze that the report was anything but “an objective study of the war.” Ofstie found Air Campaigns  “to be in major part a vicious and deliberate attempt to discredit the entire naval service.” Ofstie f