son. The final studies, completed and published in late 1945 through 1947, numbered over 330 reports and annexes; the massive amount of research and statistical data is staggering. *  *  * Two scholarly writings on the combat use of the atomic bomb against Japan, and the Pacific Survey’s counterfactual conclusion on Japan’s surrender, sparked my interest in the United States Strategic Bombing Survey. The argument that President Truman dropped the bomb on Japan not to end the war, because he knew Japan would surrender Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 11 --- soon, but to intimidate the Soviet Union,1  seemed flawed to me at an intuitive level. Moreover, the Survey’s counterfactual conclusion stating that Japan would have surrendered, even without the atomic bomb, “certainly prior to 31 December 1945, and in all probability prior to 1  November 1945,”2 also seemed incorrect. Such a sweeping conclusion of breathtaking scope— the atomic bomb was unnecessary in forcing Japan to surrender— struck me as missing the critical importance that the threat of a land invasion may have played in Japan’s unconditional surrender. It was not until I read the second scholarly article that argued the United States dropped the bomb on Japan primarily to end the war quickly and save American lives, and, as a secondary purpose, to intimidate the Soviet Union,3  that I found a reasonable explanation of America’s combat use of the atomic bomb. I then began to look at many of the other published Survey reports from Europe and the Pacific to see if they lent support to the counterfactual conclusion concerning Japan’s surrender. I discovered that the Survey reports were not a single set of unified analyses and arguments, systematically grounded in data, but, rather, a loose amalgam of studies, sometimes prepared more to shape the future than to assess the past. I also came to realize t