r 1944, Box 41, file 381, RG 243, NA. 3 2  Theodore J. Koenig, “Strategic Bombing Effects Survey: Report of Progress, 5 July 1944 - 1  September 1944,” 5 September 1944, 11-13, Beveridge frames 1447-1465. 3 3 In their memoirs, both Paul Nitze and Guido Perera assume that the real planning and organizational work for the Survey did not begin until after the assignment o f the Chairman and civilian Directors in October and November 1944. Yet it is clear from the record that the AAF had recognized the importance of the Survey and had gone to great lengths to establish the organizational framework of the Survey and the questions that it would answer. Perera and Nitze’s misconception, along with other memoirists and historians of the Survey, was probably due to the notion that since the Survey was to be headed by civilians 53 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 63 --- Ill Koenig and his assistant, Major Thomas D. Upton, had wrestled with the many objectives and questions that had been circulating within AAF headquarters since April 1944, trying to bring together the most important ones that supported the organizational structure that they devised. Upton had prepared an extensive review of the proposed questions and objectives for Koenig. According to Upton, the primary purpose of the Survey would be to study the “overall effects o f strategic bombing in the industrial, economic, political, and military fields, with a view towards evaluating the relative importance o f strategic bombing in the sphere of military operations as a whole.” Secondary objectives would include the more detailed evaluations of the effectiveness of precision vs. area bombing in destroying the German capacity to wage war and the correctness o f target selection and damage assessment methodology. But without the aim of evaluating the relevance of strategic bombing to military strategy it would