nce, 6 October 1943, 1-3, Box 18; Ira Eaker, “The Case for Day Bombing,” undated, Box 21, Ira C. Eaker Papers (hereafter referred to as Eaker Papers), Library of Congress; Crane, Bombs Cities and Civilians , 42-48. 2 0  Conrad C. Crane, “The Cigar Who Ignited the Fire Wind: Curtis LeMay and the Incendiary Bombing of Urban Areas,” unpublished, undated; also see Biddle, “British and American Approaches to Strategic Bombing,” 91, 117. 2 4  Memo from Anderson to Spaatz, “Attached Study on Air Attack on German Civilian Morale,” 17 August 1944, Box 84, Spaatz Papers, Library of Congress. 49 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 59 --- In the earliest correspondence within the AAF over the primary questions that the Survey should answer, senior airmen posited that the Survey ought to determine the overall relevance of air power as a means of modem war. The Survey would provide the country with an evaluation of the “potentialities o f Air Power as an independent instrument of military strategy.”2 5  But once the airmen began to think through the questions that the Survey would address, the relevance of air power to military strategy was never really challenged. Instead, they began to construct an organization designed to evaluate the effectiveness of strategic bombing against German-war making capacity. The airmen were confident that the level o f destruction on Germany caused by American bombers would provide ample proof to Survey analysts to write a positive evaluation of the AAF’s performance during the war. A few months prior to the Normandy landings, General Kuter directed the Deputy Chiefs o f Air Staff to submit questions concerning strategic bombing that the Survey should try to answer.2 6  The agencies responding to the request emphasized in their proposed questions that the Survey should direct its evaluation toward studying the effects of strategic bombing on