TG and Survey Directors of the German economy into a military context, with Anderson himself being the foremost expert. At one point George Ball, Paul Nitze, and Robert Russell (Survey Director o f the Oil Division) were explaining to General Norstad the importance of oil for Germany’s war economy. Nitze stated that the AAF was most successful when it went after critical industries “like oil.” Ball agreed and told Nitze that he was “absolutely right.” Anderson then referred to the AAF’s early attacks on oil and other targets in 1942 and 1943. He posited that “they were largely a mistake, and from a point of view of the economic system the dividends were •7 0quite low.” Arguing from a military standpoint, though, where he saw himself as the expert, the mistakes in fact had a positive aspect. Anderson boasted: “...we certainly created the impression that we lacked a system and the ability to think. They thought we were vicious peace-mealers and it made our air war much simpler. We didn’t show system. We grabbed a marshaling yard and we grabbed a [submarine] pen. I think they never gave us credit for a system, and Speer said he didn’t sense that we were going after his economic system until late in 1943. If we had shown our system it would probably have been three or four times harder to destroy it.3 9 3 7  For a useful analysis on the relationship between civilian experts and the military see Solly Zuckerman, Scientists and War: The impact o f Science on Military and Civil Affairs  (London: The Scientific Book Club, 1966), 3-25. 3 8  JTG/USSBS Conference, 5-6. 3 9  Ibid., 6. 120 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 130 --- In the above passage Anderson was not talking about air power strategy— target selection— he was emphasizing instead the operational ability of the AAF to deceive Speer and the Germans as to which target system” they were attacking. When he sai