which we have now obtained.”2 1 One historian has argued that a fundamental difference existed in the methodologies between the European and Pacific portions of the Survey. Because there was a dearth of production records in Japan (as compared to Germany), Survey analysts in the Pacific had to rely heavily on interrogations o f Japanese officials for their evidence, according to this historian.2 2  Yet the record shows that interrogations of important government officials were nearly as important for the European and Pacific Surveys. Relying on interrogations and constructing counterfactuals, therefore, were a part of Survey methodology in Europe and would remain so once the Survey began its evaluation in the Pacific. II Albert Speer, during his week-long interrogation with the Survey, told Directors Ball, Galbraith, and Nitze that the RAF’s area raids on the German city of Hamburg in the Summer of 1943 had a powerful effect on the morale of the city’s population. 2 0  “Preliminary Appraisal of Achievements of Strategic Bombing of Germany,” undated, Box 203, Spaatz Papers, Library of Congress. The folder that contains this report is titled “The Galbraith Report,” which will be hereafter referred to as such. 2 1  Nitze to Mother, 16 June 1945, Box 165, folder 5, Nitze Papers, Library of Congress; Nitze also relied heavily on the Speer interrogation when explaining to Ferdinand Eberstadt the effects of strategic bombing on Germany, see “Memorandum of Interview with Paul Nitze,” 19 July 1945, Box 7, Ferdinand Eberstadt Papers (hereafter referred to as Eberstadt Papers), Princeton University Archives. 2 2  Maclsaac, Strategic Bombing in World War II,  117-118. 76 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 86 --- According to Ball’s translation of Speer’s remarks, “the losses in Hamburg were great, the greatest we had suffered in any raid, particularly from burning houses