.”6 7 The heart of the Navy’s critique was that the Air Force’s method of strategic warfare was based on a flawed understanding of the past. In Admiral Radford’s mind, the popular belief that strategic bombing had revolutionized warfare by making armies and navies less important was wrong; in future wars sea lanes would still have to be secured and the Navy would still play an integral role in the nation’s defense. Other Naval officers who appeared after Admiral Radford argued this same point. When proclaiming 6 6  Barlow, Revolt o f the Admirals , 226. 6 7  Testimony by Admiral Radford, House Armed Services Committee, The National Defense Program: Unification and Strategy,  7 October 1949,40-52, 81, 107. It is also worthwhile to point out the intense dislike, and mistrust, between Symington and Radford. Symington cried to Forrestal that “no civilian” was going to tell Radford what “to do with respect to the Navy, that he [Radford] believes much of the future of the Navy lies in these attacks against the Air Force...” An assistant to Symington (probably Barton Leach) noted that Radford was “a brilliant and an unbalanced man— a dangerous man to have in any position of responsibility.” See Memo from Symington to Forrestal, 22 November [1948], Box 52, Vandenberg 202 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 212 --- the relevance of tactical aviation in a potential war with the Soviet Union, Brigadier General Vernon E. Megee, a Marine Corps aviator, based his argument on Survey findings of the role that tactical aviation played in destroying transportation networks in 68Germany and Japan during World War II. Admiral W.H.P. Blandy, commander in chief of the Atlantic Fleet, embellished a point that Admiral Radford had made a few days earlier that an all out atomic attack on Soviet cities would not break the Soviet people’s will to resist. Admiral Blandy’s reading of the S