it placed the independence of the AAF as secondary to the problems that the atomic bomb and modem weapons presented to the United States. Wanting to reshape the conclusions in the Summary Report , Orville Anderson submitted to Nitze a “Suggested Draft on Conclusions.” Anderson’s draft described the application of strategic air power during the Pacific war as “spectacular.” The Pacific War had proved, according to Anderson, that no longer was it “necessary to defeat armies to win a war. It can be won by defeating an economy.” Anderson stated that one of the most important questions that the United States faced was “whether airpower can be used as a primary weapon, with ground and sea forces in ancillary roles...” His answer to this question was clear: “Since airpower is the only force capable of being launched directly against the enemy economy, it has become the primary weapon and must dictate the future structure of our armed forces and the overall strategy of another war.” Anderson’s draft charged that if the nation did not heed the Survey’s “recommendations” for an independent air service, the future would be “fraught with grave warning...”3 3 3 2  [Summary Report Draft] [March 1946], USSBS Records, Microfilm # 1655, Roll 1, frame 1527 (italics mine); Burke, “Survey Analysis.” In another March draft of the Summary Report  Nitze appears to have bracketed this statement and replaced it with a statement calling for a “third establishment” within a “unified department of common defense.” This term, “third establishment,” would eventually appear in the 1  July published Summary Report-,  see “Recommendations,” [undated], USSBS Records, Microfilm # 1655, roll I, frames 1526, 1528. 3 3  M.A.D., [Military Analysis Division], “Suggested Draft on Conclusions,” [March-April 1946], USSBS Records, Microfilm # 1655, Roll 1, frames 1556, 1562, 1569. Anderson’s name does not appear on this draft, but he almost certainly wrote it. The draft closely resembles a handwritten draft o