should try to answer.2 6  The agencies responding to the request emphasized in their proposed questions that the Survey should direct its evaluation toward studying the effects of strategic bombing on the economic structure of Germany. The Economic Objectives Unit (EOU) of the Eighth Air Force in Europe, pointed out that an important objective for the Survey would be to determine: “repair times for damaged processes [and] the ability of German producers to pool output in to damaged ‘complexes’ and continue production at a reduced level....” It also addressed directly the ^Metno from Ames to Arnold, “Post-Armistice Evaluation o f the Strategic Bombardment of Europe,” undated, Beveridge, frame 1358. 2 6  Memo from Air Chief o f Staff to Deputy Air Chiefs of Staff, 28 April 1944, “Survey of Results of Combined Bomber Offensive,” Beveridge, frames 1403-1404. 50 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 60 --- fundamental question about the relevance of air power to national defense policy. The Survey might, according to the EOU, “eventually lead to the formulation of answers to the wider question: has the allocation of resources by the United States to air power been justified...” But the EOU concluded that this “more ambitious undertaking,” which could lead to “broad historical and even sociological speculation, should, in our view, be subsidiary to the initial more limited and definitive task.”2 7  That limited task would be to evaluate the degree of strategic bombing’s effectiveness against the German war economy. The airmen certainly recognized the potential o f a Survey evaluation that could be very critical of the AAF’s strategic bombing efforts against Germany. To the airmen, the prize that the Survey would produce for them would be justification, in the form of Survey evidence, for a postwar independent air force. The airmen, therefore, did not want the Survey t