ce doubt in the minds of committee members about the Navy’s use of the Survey in preceding and subsequent testimony. 6 4  [Author Unknown], “The Strategic Bombing Myth,” [Summer 1949], Box 6, Symington Papers, Truman Presidential Library. “The Strategic Bombing Myth,” is also in Box 167, Nitze Papers, Library of Congress; also see “Analysis of Another Anonymous Attack on the Air Force and the Concept of Aerial Warfare by the Joint Chiefs of Staff,” [Undated], Box 167, Nitze Papers, Library of Congress; 6 5  Statement by Secretary o f the Air Force Stuart Symington, House Armed Services Committee, The National Defense Program: Unification and Strategy,  18 October 1949,402-208. 201 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 211 --- But Navy officers, during the hearings, were able to make shrewd use of the Survey to discredit what they saw as the Air Force’s flawed method o f strategic bombing. Admiral Arthur W. Radford, Commander in Chief, Pacific Fleet, was called back to Washington by Admiral Denfield to organize and present the Navy’s case to the congressional committee.6 6  He testified that the B-36 was not a precision bomber and the atomic bomb was not a precision weapon. The Air Force, according to Admiral Radford, would therefore have to use the B-36 to conduct mass area bombings of Soviet cities using atomic bombs. Based on his reading of the Strategic Bombing Survey, area bombings of cities had neither worked in World War II nor would this type of strategic bombing prove decisive in a potential war with the Soviet Union. The Admiral was in favor of strategic bombing and using the atom bomb, but only on military targets, not “the indiscriminate bombing of cities.”6 7 The heart of the Navy’s critique was that the Air Force’s method of strategic warfare was based on a flawed understanding of the past. In Admiral Radford’s mind, the popular belief that strategi