t the AAF was taking toward strategic bombing. These meetings produced no radical change from the so-called “paper” organization that the AAF had already established. In fact, the meetings reinforced the overall approach that the Survey would take toward evaluating the effects of strategic bombing on Germany. Perera and D’Olier met with General Muir Fairchild on 28 October to discuss the Survey. Since his days teaching strategic bombing courses at ACTS, General Fairchild had become the head o f the Joint Strategic Survey Committee, a very respected agency that made broad planning and policy recommendations to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. General Fairchild lectured Perera and D’Olier on the general theory of airpower, the evolution of American strategic bombing of the war making-capacity of an enemy nation, and the differences between RAF area attacks and AAF precision bombing. Fairchild declared that the Survey would have to address the effects of strategic bombing on: “vital and essential industries; the enemy economy generally; enemy morale; [and] the decision o f the German High Command.” The Survey’s results “might” be of use for the AAF’s bombardment of Japan, but its conclusions certainly “would furnish a direct guide to the 64 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 74 --- post-war military organization of the United States,”6 4  which for Fairchild embraced an independent air force. About a month after talking with Perera and D’Olier, Fairchild met with Alexander and Nitze. Fairchild explained that he agreed with the two men’s plan for the conduct of the Survey. He considered their plan to be “excellent” because it demonstrated a lot of careful thought on their part toward the problems that were confronting the Survey. In fact, the General was so pleased with Nitze and Alexander’s plan for the Survey that he had “very little in the way of constructive sugges