e Survey to support their criticisms of President Richard Nixon’s bombing campaign against North Vietnam.1 3  More recently, the Survey has been used by analysts writing on strategic bombing during the Gulf War.1 6 The conclusions contained in the published reports of the Strategic Bombing Survey have come to be perceived as facts, rather than interpretations, of strategic bombing in World War II. The Survey’s published reports, unfortunately, have taken on the mystique of being the “biblical” truth about strategic bombing in World War II. But 1 4  Alperovitz, Atomic Diplomacy,  286-287. 1 5  David Halberstam, The Best and the Brightest  (New York: Random House, 1969, 1972), 161 -172; I.F. Stone, “Nixon’s Blitzkrieg,” The New York Review o f Books (25  January 1973), 13. 1 6  See for example Thomas E. Griffith, Jr., “Strategic Attack o f National Electrical Systems,” (Thesis, School of Advanced Air Power Studies, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, 1994). 222 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 232 --- analysts should remember that the Survey’s interpretations were informed and shaped by a certain conception of strategic bombing. Since Survey analysts conducted their evaluation within this conceptual framework, “simply to seek the truth” about strategic bombing in World War II, as Franklin D’Olier desired in December 1944, was simply never a possibility. 223 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 233 --- BIBLIOGRAPHY MANUSCRIPT SOURCES: Air Force Historical Research Agency, United States Air Force, Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. Records of the Joint Target Group History of the Committee of Operations Analysts Miscellaneous Records of the United States Strategic Bombing Survey Orvil A. Anderson Papers Muir S. Fairchild Papers Laurence S. Kuter