SBS, Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War,  68-69. 8 2  [Admiral Ralph Ofstie’s marked copy of] Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War,  Box 8, Special USSBS Folder, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 210 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 220 --- we will shoot quick. Nip it in the bud; don’t let him become a big bear or he will roll all over you; take him while he is a cub or before he is a cub.” Anderson added that if the United States saw an enemy nation starting to develop a weapon '‘such as the bursting of the atom,” it should “just say no,” to that enemy nation. But if the enemy refused to listen to the United States, argued the General, then “we will hit them.” 8 3 In 1947, as head of the Air Force’s Air University, Anderson perceptively understood the dilemma that strategic air power posed for the concepts of defense and offense. Anderson argued in a lecture to students that an enemy’s strategic bombing attack against the United States would mostly “get through to their targets.” Even though the United States would try to defend against such an attack by trying to shoot down the enemy’s aircraft, “a well planned mass attack, well might be decisive” against the United States. Anderson then posited that the only way to “defend” successfully against such an attack would be to take the “offensive” by destroying the enemy’s war-making capacity that produced its strategic air power.8 4  Thus, in Anderson’s conception, what appeared to be an offensive attack against an enemy nation, was in fact defensive because it prevented that enemy from attacking the United States first. This line of thinking allowed Anderson in September, 1950 to recommend publicly a preventive war against the Soviets. Anderson stated in an interview to an Alabama newspaper reporter (which was subsequently printed in an article in the Montgomery Advertiser ): 8 3  Anderson Interview, 24-25