y Report (European War),  (Washington, D.C.: USGPO, 30 September 1945), 12. 6 1  Ibid., 14. 88 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 98 --- bombing damaged buildings and structures. John Galbraith noted that examining physical damage of industrial plants “became little more than an exercise in viewing rubble.”6 2 Paul Nitze agreed with Galbraith about the decreased importance of studying the amount of physical damage caused by strategic bombing. He recommended to D’Olier that the Survey reduce the size of the Physical Damage Division and direct its energy instead toward evaluating the effects of strategic bombing on the German war economy. As a result the Survey transferred most of the analysts out of the Physical Damage Division, under the Directorship o f Harry Bowman, to other Divisions. Nitze had apparently upset one of Bowman’s assistants, Lieutenant Colonel John Bereta, over the transfers. Bereta sent a long letter to Bowman (who was in Washington, D.C. at the time) complaining about Nitze’s desire to discredit the work of the Division and remove most of its personnel. Bereta fumed that because Nitze was a trained economist, he seemed to believe “that weapons effectiveness can in some manner be ascertained from statistical, economic and industrial data.” He noticed that Nitze was becoming impatient and annoyed with the Division’s persistence in studying the physical destructiveness of strategic bombing. Bereta was sure that this was due to Nitze “not being a technical man and that his life work has been economic in nature, beginning with a Harvard education.” In the closing remarks of the letter, Bereta complained that he was “at a loss to express an opinion as to why the economic, industrial, and statistical phases of the Survey [were] being accented more than the physical damage phase.”6 3 6 2  Memo from Galbraith to Black, October 1949, Box 70, Papers o