rman capacity to wage war and the correctness o f target selection and damage assessment methodology. But without the aim of evaluating the relevance of strategic bombing to military strategy it would be unrealistic, according to Upton, to get the President, to appoint “a well known, impartial, public figure to head the survey committee and write the report. Any lesser objective than this would fail to give proper weight to both the historical importance of such a survey and its importance in the long term formulation of Air Force policy.”3 4 Downplaying Upton’s emphasis on the Survey’s overarching goal and demonstrating a shrewd understanding of what his AAF leaders wanted, Koenig argued that the Survey, once it began its evaluation, should not pursue the broader question of the relevance of thereby producing an “impartial” and “unbiased” analysis, the roots of the Survey began in late 1944 rather than much earlier. See Paul H. Nitze, From Hiroshima to Glasnost: At The Center o f Decision (New York: Grove Weidenfeld, 1989),  26; and Perera, Leaves From My Book o f Life , 122. 3 4  Thomas D. Upton, “Scope of Strategic Bombing Effects Survey, ” 5 August 1944, Box 41, RG 243, NA. 54 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 64 --- airpower to military strategy. Instead, the Survey should confine itself to “an intensive survey of bombing effects,” and not a “lengthy study of the war, and the part of the AAF At least in terms of a formal, written request to authorize the Strategic Bombing Survey, President Roosevelt may have received a memorandum, written by General Spaatz, for General Arnold’s signature on 20 April 1944, recommending “an intensive survey, in Germany and German occupied countries, of the results achieved by the Combined Bomber Offensive.”3 6  General Arnold on one hand admitted that the “air forces will be dependent on the results of the proposed study.