f the war would have been terminated prior to 1  November; Konoye’s response was “Probably would have lasted beyond that.”4 8 Franklin D’Olier followed Nitze in the interrogation of Konoye and parroted Nitze’s counterfactual line of questioning. D’Olier asked the former Premier whether the Japanese leadership would “have been forced to surrender even if Russia had not come in or even though we had not dropped the atomic bomb?” Konoye replied that the “Army had dug themselves caves in the mountains and their idea of fighting on was fighting from every little hole or rock in the mountains.” D’Olier then asked if the Emperor would have allowed the Army to do that. Konoye replied that the Emperor “would not have let them go that far. He would have done something to stop them.”4 9 Although Konoye’s testimony to Nitze and D’Olier provided some support for the early-surrender counterfactual, his testimony leaned heavily toward a more prolonged war, one that could have continued beyond 1  November, and perhaps even after 31 December 1945, without the atom bomb and Soviet declaration of war. But testimony by key Japanese leaders like Konoye that challenged the Survey’s conclusions never made it into the pages of the published final reports. It was noteworthy that during the Konoye interrogation only Nitze and D’Olier pursued the counterfactual questioning about ending the war with Japan. Galbraith confined his questions of Konoye to Japan’s decisions in 1941 to go to war against the United States. Paul Baran, who had become a senior member of the Pacific Survey’s Economic 4 8  Konoye interrogation, 18. 4 9  Ibid., 20. 153 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 163 --- Division, was concerned with Japan’s wartime economy, and the “greater Asia co- prosperity sphere.” Captain T.J. Hedding, a member o f Ofstie’s Naval Analysis Division, asked Konoye questions about the milit