bardment Against the Western Axis,” 27 January 1944, File 118.01, History of the COA, AFHRC. 6 7  Maclsaac, Strategic Bombing in World War II,  161. 6 8  I have not found the Committee’s report mentioned in the memoir accounts of Arnold, Hansell, or Perera. The historians themselves who made up the Committee do not mention it in any of their published writings, probably due to its original classification of secret. Undoubtedly in the archival papers of the historians there would be some mention of the report. Peter Novick, in That Noble Dream: The “Objectivity Question " and the American Historical Profession  (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1988), obliquely mentions a recommendation made by Becker to the Pentagon cautioning “against accepting grandiose Air Corps claims that their bombing would break German morale,” but not an explicit mention of the report or the committee (303). I have checked the major secondary works on the AAF and strategic bombing in World War II and have found no mention of the Committee in any of those sources. My tentative conclusion, which I believe the comments that Earle made about the Historians’ report supports, is that the Historians simply did not make the conclusions that General Arnold and the AAF were looking for, and their report was therefore allowed to quietly fade away into the dustbin of the past. 37 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 47 --- sure that he [could] discern the complicated relationships between cause and effect...”6 9  In short, the historian would have recognized the existence of imponderables in evidence and analysis. The AAF, however, wanted its civilian experts to produce target recommendations, predictions, and evaluations of strategic bombing that used scientific “calipers” instead of historical analysis.7 0  “Calipers” grasped the imponderables of strategic bombing, took them apart and disce