d Warfare: The 144 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 154 --- Paul Nitze, after he arrived back in Washington D.C. in December 1945 to begin writing the Pacific Survey’s Summary Report , was, in a sense, caught in the middle of the postwar rivalry between the Navy and the AAF over the role of air power in the national defense, and more importantly whether or not the AAF should be granted independence. General Anderson and Admiral Ofstie both knew that that the Survey’s explanation of the role that the AAF and the Navy played in “winning” the war in the Pacific would have a substantial impact on future defense organization and strategy.2 6  Both officers, therefore, did their very best at shaping the arguments that the Survey would produce. Ofstie and Anderson sought to shape the central arguments in the Chairman’s Summary Report.  From December 1945 to June 1946 at Langley Field, Virginia (the Washington D.C. headquarters of the Pacific Survey), Nitze complained that he “had to write every word of the damn document, and [he got] the full brunt of the pressure from all sides.”2 7 Yet as hard as Nitze may have tried to maintain a balance between the two services, the interests of the AAF won out over the Navy in the Pacific Survey’s Summary Report. Nitze appears to have written his first preliminary draft of the Summary Report  on 12 March 1946. There were probably five subsequent drafts written between 12 March and 7 0 1  July when the final Summary Report  was published." Some of the changes contained in these drafts were striking in the way they demonstrated a shift in the emphasis placed on the AAF’s role in the war against Japan and for advocating an independent air arm. Proceedings o f the 8th Military History Symposium United States Air Force Academy, 18-20 October 1978,  Alfred F. Hurley and Robert C. Ehrhart, eds. (Washington D.C.: USGPO, 1979), 245-27