e attack. The two terms are treated synonymously because the results of area bombing apparently confirmed the notion that enemy’s morale was the objective: Area bombing did cause indiscriminate destruction within a designated aiming area in German and Japanese cities, and area bombing did cause massive terror and suffering to the enemy population. Hence, in this formulation, when the AAF carried out limited area bombing against German cities and extensive area bombing against Japanese cities the objective of those attacks automatically became morale. Historian Ronald Schaffer, in his important 1987 book Wings o f Judgment,  treats area and morale bombing as one and the same. Shaffer argues that the AAF was able to conduct Operation Clarion in February 1945 “because the people who strongly opposed morale and area bombing  lacked the power to impose their views.” Or in another passage, Schaffer notes that the great number of American bombers and crews “toward the end of the war also contributed to U.S. terror and area attacks .”4 6  It is arguable whether or not the AAF, especially by the closing months of the Pacific war and the torching of Japanese cities, placed morale as the primary objective for area bombing.4 7 Yet it is also crucial to accept the notion that AAF planners, operators, and evaluators thought of area bombing as a method of dropping bombs on strategic targets in enemy cities. It was completely possible, in their minds, to conduct an area attack against the 4 6  Schaffer, Wings o f Judgment,  103-105 (italics mine). Also see, Gordon Wright, The Ordeal o f Total War, 1939-1945  (New York: Harper& Row, 1968), 182; Richard Rhodes, The Making o f the Atomic Bomb (New York: Simon & Schuster, 1986), 650; John D. Chappell, Before the Bomb: How America Approached the End o f the Pacific War  (Lexington: University of Kentucky Press, 1997), 106-107. 4  Conrad C. Crane, “The Cigar Who Ignited the Fire Wind: Curtis LeMay and the Incendiary Bombing of Urban Area