concern over budgets was also the emerging fear among naval officers that many Americans believed strategic airpower, delivered by the Air Force, to be the decisive factor in future warfare.5  Naval leaders saw in this belief the potential demise of carrier aviation and a decline in the status of their service. During the October 1945 congressional hearings many top civilian and military leaders appeared before the Committee to explain their positions on unification. Even though the Pacific portion of the Strategic Bombing Survey was still ongoing, some of its draft reports had made their way back to Washington along with the many completed reports from the European Survey. When arguing either in favor of, or against, unification, military leaders would often use reports from the Survey as proof of their services’  accomplishments during the war. Proving which service played the decisive role in victory was closely linked to arguments over the future structure of the postwar defense establishment. Vice Admiral Dewitt C. Ramsey, Deputy Commander in Chief for the Pacific Fleet, told the Senate Military Affairs Committee that he vehemently disagreed with the AAF claim that carrier-based aviation had become obsolete by the closing months of the war due to the ability of the AAF to bomb the Japanese home islands. According to Admiral 4  John Barlow, Revolt o f the Admirals: The Fight fo r  Naval Aviation , (Washington, Naval Historical Center, 1994), 30-32. 5  See for example, Memo from Ofstie to OP-05, 10 March 1949, Box 8, AEC— Naval Member Military Liaison Folder, Ofstie Papers, Naval Historical Center. 175 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 185 --- Ramsey, carrier aviation played a critical role in forcing Japan to surrender unconditionally, and if a land invasion of Kyushu had been necessary, carrier aviation would have played a decisive role in that operatio