ee conflicting issues emerge from the pages of various reports o f the Pacific Survey: 1) Approximately seventy percent of AAF attacks against the Japanese home islands were against urban areas; 2) the reports on morale and Japanese urban areas argued that area attacks against Japan’s morale and urban economy were not decisive factors in Japan’s decision to surrender; and 3) the Summary Report  explicitly states that conventional strategic bombing was the decisive factor in forcing the Japanese to surrender “unconditionally.” The Survey’s first two findings, taken together, suggest that a major portion of the AAF’s air campaign against the Japanese home islands was not decisive, and perhaps unnecessary. The third finding--the Summary Report’ s  conclusion- 7 1  USSBS, Morale Division, The Effects o f Strategic Bombing on Japanese Morale,  (Washington, D.C: USGPO, June 1947), 1-2, 6,23-25. 7 2  Ibid., 6; also see USSBS Naval Analysis Division Interrogation o f Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura, #429, 8 November 1945, USSBS Records, microfilm 1655, Interrogated by Admiral R.A. Ofstie, Paul baran, and Lt. Cmdr. Spinks. 162 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 172 --- -therefore, requires an explanation of how the remaining thirty percent o f the AAF’s campaign, which were precision attacks against specific military and economic targets, defeated Japan and forced a surrender. Granted the Summary Report  argues that the main weight of the AAF’s campaign against Japanese cities lowered the morale and will to resist of the Japanese leadership, thereby forcing them to accept surrender, but the Pacific Survey report on morale suggests that both factors were not critical for Japan’s capitulation. This is the dilemma that emerges from the pages of the Pacific Survey reports: How to claim the decisiveness of conventional air power when there was evidence pointing to the conclusio