hool that the United States needed to develop a long range bombardment force that could threaten an enemy nation’s “home territory.” Although he did not explicitly mention Germany as the “home territory” that the United States should be able to threaten, the thrust of his argument made clear that Germany was the nation he had in mind. Wilson asked what would be the result if this “upstart dictator” (presumably Adolph Hitler) could threaten America’s home territory with strategic bombardment. According to Wilson the United States had the greatest “ability to secure, manufacture, and organize the men and materials required School: Incubators of American Airpower,” in The Paths o f Heaven,  211-212; Crane, Bombs, Cities, and Civilians,  22. 1 9  Haywood Hansell, The Air Plan that Defeated Hitler,  (Atlanta: Higgins-MacArthur, 1974), 37; Faber, “Interwar US Army Aviation and the Air Corps Tactical School,” 200. 2 0  Memo from Andrews to The Army Adjutant General, “Organization for Air Defense,” 26 April 1937, Box 10, RG 340, NA. 2 1  Futrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine,  92-96. 18 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 28 --- for war.” Why then, inquired Wilson, should the United States itself be “vulnerable to such a new theory as air attack?” He answered: “Simply because an industrial nation is composed of interrelated and entirely interdependent elements. The normal every day life of the great mass of the population is basically dependent upon the continuous flow and uninterrupted organization of services, materials, and food.” Wilson then brought out a clear example of why American air officers thought that attacking “vital links” in the enemy’s industrial structure with strategic bombers would destroy their capacity to resist: “The industrial nation has grown and prospered in proportion to the excellence o f its industrial system, but, and here is the irony of th