ssion.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 36 --- German industry if the AAF wanted to attack the most vital targets contributing to the 41German war effort. Realizing the importance of target selection for the AAF, General Arnold in December 1942 established the Committee of Operations Analysts (COA). The General wanted an organization that could streamline the process of target selection and somewhat separate itself from the existing disputes over intelligence within the AAF.4 2  The group was made up predominantly of civilian personnel, most of whom were industrial experts. For example; Elihu Root Jr. was a senior member of a New York financial firm, Edward Meade Earle, was a Princeton scholar of history and economics, Edward S. Mason was an economics professor at Harvard, and Guido R. Perera was a lawyer with an elite Boston Law firm and would later occupy influential positions in the Strategic Bombing Survey. The heavy reliance on civilian experts reflected the AAF belief that its staff officers did not have the professional training or ability to conduct sophisticated economic analysis that could produce strategic target recommendations.4 3 In his first directive, General Arnold asked the '‘group of operational analysts” to: “Prepare and submit to me a report analyzing the rate of progressive deterioration that should be anticipated in the German war effort as a result of the increasing air operations we are prepared to employ against its sustaining sources. This study should result in as accurate an estimate as can be arrived at as to the date when this deterioration will have progressed to a point to permit a successful invasion of Western Europe.”4 4 4 1  Craven and Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War II,  vol I, 352-353. 4 2  Arnold, Global Mission , 333-334; Craven and Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War II,  vol I, 353. 4 3  Craven and Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War II, vol I,  353-354; James MacGreggor Bums, Roosevelt: The Soldier o f