hout permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 75 --- relative effectiveness of strategic bombing that Nitze, Alexander and the others would conduct their evaluation. While shuttling between Washington, D.C. and London trying to get the Survey underway, Paul Nitze spent a week with Colonel Fred Castle, a wing commander in the Eighth Force, learning the concept of strategic bombing as the Americans were practicing it. Nitze had great respect for this combat leader who would eventually lose his life on a bombing mission over Germany. Nitze remembered that Castle enjoyed “educating me on all the manifold problems of his command and also speculating on those of the postwar world, and how the United States might best go about dealing with them.” Castle provided Nitze with an essay that he had written, “Airpower in this War and the Following Peace.” In the essay, Castle argued that during World War II American air power was being used for “economic-strategic warfare against the heart of the Nazi military system.” Castle warned that the United States must not wait too long in drawing conclusions about air power’s use in war because it would prove to be “the most important implement of national policy of the future.” Castle deeply impressed Nitze with his courage and intellectual capacity.6 6  Nitze would take Castle’s recommendation to heart and conduct his work with the Survey believing that it would lay the theoretical groundwork for American air power in the future. Nitze later noted in a letter to John Galbraith that “almost all discussion on the concepts of the role of air power in general 6 6  Nitze, From Hiroshima to Glasnost , 29; Nitze to D’Olier, “Conversation with Colonel Frederick Castle.-.November 22, 1944,” Box 41, file 373.11, RG 243, NA; F.W. Castle, “Air Power in this War and the following Peace,” undated, Box 21, Eaker Papers, Library of Congress. 66 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without perm