the government printing office for publication in late 1946 and 1947 demonstrates the powerful postwar interests o f both the Army Air Forces and the Navy that operated within the Pacific Survey’s evaluation of strategic air power 7 7  USSBS, Naval Analysis Division, Campaigns o f the Pacific War  (Washington, D.C.: USGPO, 1946), 290. 165 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 175 --- against Japan. The process also shows that the services’ representatives on the Survey, General Anderson and Admiral Ofstie, were not “evenly matched,” contrary to historian David Maclsaac.7 8  Instead, the AAF clearly had the upper hand because of the conceptual approach of Directors like Nitze toward the importance of air power for postwar defense, and, more importantly, the partiality o f Franklin D’Olier. Maclsaac in his 1976 book on the Survey, Strategic Bombing in World War II, emphasizes the bitter disagreement between Ofstie and Anderson over the publishing of each Division’s reports by referring to it as, “The Great Anderson Navy War.” Maclsaac asks his readers: “what could reasonably be expected from battle-scarred senior admirals other than that they would fight for the continued provision of powerful naval striking forces? What could be expected of Air Force generals other than that they should stress continually the need to maintain an atomic striking force?”7 9  Answering Maclsaac’s questions, one might reasonably expect senior military leaders to ultimately place the needs of the “common defense” above their respective service interests. Yet Maclsaac’s greater flaw was to portray the Survey, namely Franklin D’Olier, as the impartial mediator between Ofstie and Anderson’s fight for their respective services. D’Olier, 80according to Maclsaac, did his best to be “fair.” But the record strongly suggests that D’Olier deliberately sided with Anderson and allowed Air Campaig