hile to point out the intense dislike, and mistrust, between Symington and Radford. Symington cried to Forrestal that “no civilian” was going to tell Radford what “to do with respect to the Navy, that he [Radford] believes much of the future of the Navy lies in these attacks against the Air Force...” An assistant to Symington (probably Barton Leach) noted that Radford was “a brilliant and an unbalanced man— a dangerous man to have in any position of responsibility.” See Memo from Symington to Forrestal, 22 November [1948], Box 52, Vandenberg Papers, Library o f Congress, and, [undated character description of Admiral Arthur Radford], Box 7, Symington Papers, Truman Library. 197 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 207 --- delivering the atomic bomb with decisive results. Ruminating over the proper course for the defense establishment to take, Committee member Dewey Short wondered why “this government...should be spending billions of dollars in arming the countries of western Europe? Should we not, perhaps, put more emphasis on building and improving the B- 36s here, because we can get them out and get them back without relying on anyone else?”3 3  General LeMay’s response to the Congressman was shrewd and bureaucratically astute. By agreeing with Short, General LeMay would have confirmed the allegations of many Naval officers that the Air Force was relying too heavily on atomic weapons for the nation’s defense. Instead, General LeMay argued that the bombers would get through, but would not necessarily “win the war.” For that would require, according to the General, a balanced mix of forces. Yet LeMay’s testimony, coupled with that of other Air Force officers, confirmed in the minds of many Congressman, and many Americans, that the atomic bomb, delivered by Air Force bombers, was the decisive weapon in modem combat.5 6 Curiously, the reports o f the Strategic Bo