cific war theater was decisive”1 4  It is unclear how this statement made its way into the final report. Paul Nitze himself was one of four survey directors whose personal approval was necessary before any reports could be released for publication.7 5  Somehow those responsible for revising or rewriting “contradictory” material overlooked the Japanese scholars findings as well as other evidence challenging the Survey’s interpretation of Japan’s decision to surrender. V Not tucked away in the milieu of published Survey Reports was the July 1947 study produced by Orvil Anderson’s Military Analysis Division, Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War. Making the same points that he made in his July 1946 memorandum to the Secretary o f War on the Summary Report,  Anderson’s Air Campaigns  sought to bludgeon the “American Public” into accepting the idea that the national defense establishment had to be “oriented toward airpower” and that the future of airpower “not be restricted, as in pre-World War II years, by the inertia of established organizations or personalities.” Anderson’s report argued that the experience of World War II proved that: Airpower dominated its own element. Airpower dominated naval warfare. Airpower dominated ground warfare... Airpower was capable of forcing the capitulation of an enemy nation without surface invasion.7 6 7 4  USSBS, Urban Areas Division, The Effects o f Air Attack on Japanese Urban Economy , 48 (italics mine). 7 5  Beveridge, History o f the United States Strategic Bombing Survey,  221; Beveridge states that before a Survey report could be released for publication, it had to be approved by Nitze, Anderson, Ofstie, and General Grandison Gardner. Beveridge referred to them as the “Big Four.” 7 6  USSBS, Military Analysis Division, Air Campaigns o f the Pacific War  (Washington, D.C.: USGPO, July 1947), 68-69. 164 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.