ners with a set of questions that it desired to have answered concerning the effectiveness of strategic bombing. Since the JTG’s purpose was to provide centralized strategic target planning for the AAF in the Far East, it appreciated the opportunity for a “scientific evaluation of the effectiveness of air attack under battle conditions against strategic targets” that could be applied to “target selection and damage assessment in the Far Eastern Theater.” The JTG was most interested in a comparative study by the Survey of American precision attacks and RAF area attacks against German cities. The JTG wanted the Survey to determine the “loss of production in plants and industries from precision attacks by U.S Strategic Air Forces [and the] loss of production from RAF area attacks.” 2 9 Although the JTG did not ask the Survey to study strategic bombing effects on Germany morale, other AAF agencies did. But interestingly, the Survey should study morale not in terms of the collective will to resist of the German people, or the political will o f the Nazis to continue fighting under strategic bombing attacks. Instead the Survey should determine how lowered morale among individual German workers affected Germany’s war economy. The AAF’s air inspector, for example, wanted to know “what 2 8  Colbert to White, “Memorandum for Brig. Gen. T.D. White...” 27 March 1944, Beveridge, frame 1356. 2 9 Joint Target Group, “Memorandum on Assessment of Damage by Air Bombardment in the European Theater,” 10 November 1944, United States Strategic Bombing Survey, on microfilm from AFHRC, reel # A1154, 2098, EO 11652, frames 1615-1622; Futrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine,  162-163; Craven and Cate, The Army Air Forces in World War II,  volume V, 624-625. 52 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 62 --- effect strategic and tactical bombing have upon morale as it affected war production.” Wh