f Liberal Consensus,” in Hollywood as Historian: American Film in Cultural Context,  ed., Peter C. Rallins (Lexington: University of Kentucky Press, 1983), 190-210. 212 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 222 --- would have agreed with Anderson in private, stating those thoughts in a public forum challenged the official policy o f containing (not rolling back) the Soviet Union and 87terrified the majority of the American people. Simply put, Anderson crossed the line by stating~in public— what he and many others believed about strategic air power and the Soviet Union. VII Anderson’s Survey Report, Air Campaigns,  and his outspoken rhetoric on preventive war, contradicted Paul Nitze’s conclusions concerning air power and national security in the Pacific Survey Summary Report.  Nitze admitted in the Summary Report  that it would be impossible to completely protect the United States from an enemy’s strategic bombers and guided missiles. It therefore behooved the United States, according to Nitze, “to accept the possibility that at least a small number of enemy planes or guided missiles may be able to evade all our defenses and to attack any objective within range.” The defense of the United States would come from “the threat of immediate retaliation with a striking force of our own,” which “should deter any aggressor from attacking,” argued Nitze. For Nitze, America’s defense should come from the threat of immediate retaliation. For 8 7  Peter B. Young, “The Dismissal of General Anderson,” 1959, file 168.7006-3, AFHRA. This short unpublished essay by Young appears to be a college research paper, though it is hard to tell. Young interviewed Anderson in 1959 for the essay. Young acknowledged that Anderson’s remarks to Rankin in 1951 “stands as a remarkable summary o f the theoretical work accomplished at the Air War College. All the main themes are there: the nation