fight for their respective services. D’Olier, 80according to Maclsaac, did his best to be “fair.” But the record strongly suggests that D’Olier deliberately sided with Anderson and allowed Air Campaigns  to be published in the face of objections by Ofstie and Paul Nitze. In early 1946, Ofstie’s Division wrote a report, “The Air Effort Against Japan,” (this was a different study from Campaigns o f the Pacific War  discussed above) that described 7 8  Maclsaac, Strategic Bombing in World War II,  133. 7 9  Ibid., 122. 80 Ibid., Maclsaac has the word “fair” set off in quotation marks so one can assume that D’Olier used the word at some point, although it is hard to tell from Maclsaac’s notes. 166 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 176 --- and evaluated the part played by air power in the Pacific war. Yet when Ofstie submitted the galleys of this report for review, Nitze considered it not to be “an impartial or accurate account of the air effort against Japan.” The Survey, said Nitze, “would not approve of its publication in its present form which incorrectly associates the Survey with it.”8 1 Ofstie’s report argued that U.S. naval action in World War II in the Pacific “played the principal as well as the deciding part.” The report concluded that “too much has been said of late of the peculiar and distinctive nature of airpower, and too little of its necessary 82interrelation with land and sea forces for whose benefit it exists.” Major General Launs Norstad, who had probably been briefed about the Naval Analysis Division’s report by Anderson, was worried that the report claimed to be an analysis of the overall air effort against Japan, but was really a highly biased description of the navy’s carrier based air effort. As a result o f these expressed concerns, and Nitze’s desire to maintain “impartiality,” the Survey did not publish the report. But Ofstie did get l