rsy over Cabot’s draft report happened, it is referred to in too many other sources to dismiss. Hershberg, in James B. Conant  (611-612), discusses it in the context of the 1949 attempt by the Harvard Board of Overseers (of which Cabot was a member) to block Galbraith’s appointment as professor. At issue, ostensibly, was Galbraith’s “intellectual dishonesty” when he challenged Cabot’s version of the Survey Chairman’s final report. Hershberg points out, however, that attempting to prevent Galbraith’s appointment as Harvard professor had more to do with Galbraith’s Liberal politics than his work on the Survey. Nevertheless it was Galbraith’s challenge to Cabot’s draft report and his purported “intellectual dishonesty” that the Harvard Board used in 1949 to determine whether or not he would attain professorship. The result was a number of memorandums written by Galbraith in 1949 that explained the controversy over the writing of the Chairman’s final report as well as a series of letters between Galbraith and other Survey Directors that addressed the early September 1945 controversy. I therefore rely heavily on these documents when discussing the controversy over the Chairman’s final report. 7 8  Untitled and Undated [Remarks on exhibits for the appointment of Galbraith as Economic Professor at Harvard, October 1949], Box 70, Galbraith Papers, Harvard University File, JFK Library. Galbraith’s abrasive personality also seems to have contributed to the tension. He clearly did not get along with Cabot and Perera, yet his relationship with Orvil Anderson was generally positive. Galbraith recalled his “relationship with Anderson with some pleasure.” Anderson was quoted as saying, “I think Galbraith was one of the most valuable men on the Survey, if not the most valuable.” See, memo from Galbraith, 19 October 1949, and, Potts to Galbraith, 22 March 1950, Box 70, Harvard University File, Galbraith Papers, JFK Library. 94 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Furth