r against, an independent air force. In 1948, President Truman reduced the defense budget (for fiscal year 1950) to 13.7 billion dollars, resulting in the cancellation of production of the Navy’s cherished super-carrier, the USS United States. A series of congressional hearings followed in 1949 which probed deeply into the Navy and Air Force’s visions for the post war defense establishment. During these hearings, the Air Force and the Navy again relied on the Strategic Bombing Survey to support their position on controversial issues such as the Air Force’s procurement of the B-36 strategic bomber, the roles and missions of both services, methods of strategic bombing, and the atomic bomb. I The first postwar congressional hearings on unification of the armed services began on 17 October 1945 when the Senate Military Affairs Committee began to explore two bills that committee members had introduced. Key issues that emerged from these early hearings were the push for a single defense department and the independent status of the Air Force. Since the days of Billy Mitchell, the Air Force had desired co-equal status with the Army and Navy: unification was a means to achieve that end. The Navy, on the 3  Drum to Eberstadt, 27 August 1945, Box 4, Ferdinand Eberstadt Papers (hereafter referred to as Eberstadt Papers), Princeton University Archives. 174 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 184 --- other hand, opposed unification because an independent Air Force disrupted the traditional balance between the Navy and War Departments over budgets. An independent Air Force would mean that three services would be competing for funds instead of just two.4  Lurking underneath this concern over budgets was also the emerging fear among naval officers that many Americans believed strategic airpower, delivered by the Air Force, to be the decisive factor in future warfare.5  Naval l