mbellished a point that Admiral Radford had made a few days earlier that an all out atomic attack on Soviet cities would not break the Soviet people’s will to resist. Admiral Blandy’s reading of the Survey showed that strategic bombing “in the latter part o f the war, had a very great effect on Germany’s oil and steel industries and her transportation, plus a marked effect upon her general economy, and the morale of her people.” But Blandy added that strategic bombing operations in World War II that killed large numbers of civilians did not lead to “an actual breakdown of the will of the people to resist.” The lessons from the past that should be applied to present and future defense strategy, according to the Admiral, was that there was no such thing as an “atomic Blitz.” Instead, wars would continue to be fought with the Army and Navy destroying the enemy’s capacity to resist, stated Blandy.6 9 Papers, Library o f Congress, and, [undated character description of Admiral Arthur Radford], Box 7, Symington Papers, Truman Library. 6 8  Testimony by Brigadier General Vernon E. Megee, House Armed Services Committee, The National Defense Program: Unification and Strategy,  1 1  October 1949, 196-197. 6 9  Testimony by Admiral W.H.P. Blandy, House Armed Services Committee, The National Defense Program: Unification and Strategy,  11 October 1949, 203. Fleet Admiral William F. Halsey argued along the same lines in his testimony to the Committee, 12 October 1949,240-241. The evidence that both Admirals drew on seems to have come from a number of different Survey reports. For example The Areas Studies Division Report,  from the European Survey, argued that area bombing “did not have a decisive effect upon the ability of the German nation to produce war material.” (23); Two reports from the Pacific Survey, The War Against Japanese Transportation  (59) and The Effects o f  Strategic Bombing on the Japanese War Economy  (6), argue that Japan was a defeated nation before the main