g about air power strategy— target selection— he was emphasizing instead the operational ability of the AAF to deceive Speer and the Germans as to which target system” they were attacking. When he said the AAF “grabbed” a railroad marshaling yard or submarine pen, he was referring to their operational ability to bomb those targets. The difference is subtle but important. While Anderson was an expert at the operational aspects of air war, such as deception and putting bombs on target, he was not the expert at determining which industries, both basic and productive, were the most critical for an enemy’s war economy. Nitze the Wall Street industrialist, Russell the executive vice president of Standard Oil, and Ball the corporate lawyer were the experts in the field of air power strategy. And those civilian experts were most comfortable with evaluating the economic effects of strategic bombing on Germany during the war. General Anderson brought up again the effectiveness of the RAF’s area raids against German cities. George Ball, referring to Speer’s testimony, pointed out that “the Hamburg raid in 1943 scared them to death.” Colonel Brownell, who had been quiet up to then, perceptively noted that Ball’s statement placed “some doubt on what [Ball] said earlier about the effectiveness of area raids.” Ball retorted: “What Speer said was that he was terribly worried at the time. He thought if those raids were continued that the war was lost, but he later realized he had been wrong, as other people in Germany realized.” Anderson told Brownell that Germany could materially “recover faster than they expected,” hence the lack of effectiveness of area raids against German cities. But General Norstad probed at the profound implications of Speer’s testimony on the potential effects of area bombing on German 12! Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- gentile_advocacy.pdf --- Page 131 --- morale. Norstad sug