ine that the destruction of infrastructure useful to the war effort could, in itself, have no positive effect at all. However, there were two hypotheses regarding the possible effects of “area” bombing on civilian “morale”: a strategi - cally interesting effect, and a counterproductive effect. In 1943, the US Air Force Command had asked historians to produce an expertise on the effects of Allied “strategic” bombing. The group included Carl L. Becker (Cornell University), Henry S. Commager (Columbia University), Edward Mead Earle (Princeton University), Louis Gottschalk and Bernadotte Schmitt (University of Chicago), and Dumas Malone (Harvard University). They concluded that both effects cancel each other out. In their view, it could happen that a person who saw their child  File: --- delori_memory.pdf --- Page 5 --- The memory of the Allied bombings of World War II 159 die before their eyes might feel so “demoralized” that they would no longer par - ticipate in war effort. However, the opposite effect ‒ that of radicalization against the “air terrorists”‒- also existed. Therefore, these historians wrote that “there is no evidence that the British and American bombing of German cities actually weakened the hold of the Nazi government on the German population” ( Gentile, 2001 , p. 30). In 1945, the general data on the outcome of the war against Germany and Japan made it impossible to determine whether each sort of “strategic” bomb - ing had been effective, ineffective, or counterproductive. In the case of Germany, the destruction of numerous civilian infrastructures (factories, train stations and entire cities) suggested that the extraordinary Allied firepower had contributed to the victory. However, Germany’s capitulation came after the capture of Berlin by Soviet ground forces. More generally, the German people did not revolt against the Nazi regime, and the workers seemed to have gone to the factory with the same fervour until the very end. The Japanese case was di