atter caused outrage among the partisans of strategic bombings. In his memoirs, Galbraith mentions the case of Orvil Anderson, the USSBS military advisor: On the evening when we first discussed these figures on the deck of the Patria, Orvil Anderson's voice broke, and he asked, 'Did I send those boys to do that?' However, he soon recovered his poise and gave his attention initially  File: --- delori_memory.pdf --- Page 6 --- 160 Mathias Delori to faulting the German statistics and, when that proved impossible, to seeking to have them overlooked (Galbraith, 1981 ), p. 215) Charles Cabot and Colonel Perera ‒two members of the USSBS secretariat who were committed to the air force project ‒ reacted in the same way. In the first draft of the summary report that they wrote, they ignored Galbraith’s “discovery” and presented the Allied air war as a success story. All USSBS directors were expected to sign the summary report on Germany prepared by Cabot and Perera. Galbraith refused to do so, arguing that it was a matter of “intellectual honesty” ( Galbraith, 1981 , p. 226). Diplomat George Ball proposed a compromise solution. The USSBS would produce not one but two synthesis reports: a relatively short “summary” report and a longer “overall” report. Both would be signed by all members of the executive team, but Galbraith would have leadership on one and the secretariat on the other. Ball added that both sides could draw on the work of the other group of USSBS scientists: the Morale Division  headed by psycho-sociologist Rensis Likert. The Morale Division  takes position against Galbraith The USSBS Morale Division  conducted an exploratory survey in February‒March 1945 among the population of the cities of Krefeld and Darmstadt, which had been bombed in June 1943 and September 1944, respectively. The investigators interviewed 200 survivors as well as various local notables. These interviews did not support the thesis of a “demoralizing” effect of the bombings on civilians. F