ts of coun - terinsurgency warfare emphasize the importance of mastering violence against non- rebel populations in order to prevent them from becoming rebellious ‒ an idea that is the exact opposite of “strategic” bombing. However, it would be wrong to think that US “strategic” studies have definitively buried the USSBS. In 2008, a Rand Corporation expert wrote, for example, that some of the USSBS’s theses may be debatable, but that no expert questions its major conclusion that “strategic” bombing made a “decisive” contribution to the victory over Germany and Japan. This, she wrote, “has stood the test of time.”24 If that is true, the horizontal fragmentation of civilian and “strategic” memories of the Allied air war may not be quite over. Notes 1 I thank Anne Bazin, Eric Sangar, and the anonymous reviewers for their helpful com - ments on a previous version of this chapter. This research is mainly based on some archival work at the (US) National Archive Research Administration (hereafter NARA) at College Park, nearby Washington DC. 2 USSBS. (1945a). United States Strategic Bombing Survey. Summary Report (European War) . 3 I use inverted commas when talking about “strategic” bombings in order to denote that the (genuine) strategic dimension of these war actions is disputed.  File: --- delori_memory.pdf --- Page 13 --- The memory of the Allied bombings of World War II 167 4 I use inverted commas, again, in order to highlight that I am referring to the social field that his proponent call “strategic studies.” Whether or not this field does produce genuine strategic thought remains an open question. 5 USSBS. (1945a). United States Strategic Bombing Survey. Summary Report (European War) , USSBS. (1946). United States Strategic Bombing Survey. Summary Report (Pacific War). 1 July 1946 , USSBS. (1945b). United States Strategic Bombing Survey. Overall Report (European war). 30 September 1945 . 6 USSBS. (1945e). United States Strategic Bombing Survey.The effects of strateg