tially obsolete. The most illustrious representative of this epistemic community is Bernard Brodie ( Brodie, 1946 ). However, these proponents of a “revolution in strategic thinking” did not totally reject the USSBS’s conclusions on the usefulness of conventional “strategic” bombing, especially those directed against the morale of populations. Brodie, for example, relied on USSBS findings to argue that the July 1943 Hamburg bombing had an impact on civilian morale throughout the country and that a repeat of this type of area bombing would have forced the Reich to surrender earlier. This idea did not completely contradict that of revolution in military affairs: for Brodie, the USSBS demonstration of the “demoralizing” effect of area bombing was also an argument in favour of his thesis of a demoralizing effect of thermonuclear bombing ( Brodie, 1959 , p. 137). Another important legacy of the USSBS can be found in the writings of soci - ologist Hans Speier, the first director of the Rand Corporation’ s social science department. In the 1950s, Speier argued that it was immoral to target German and Japanese civilians without dismissing the idea that it could have some interesting military effects. Speier overcame this potential cognitive dissonance by propos - ing a new approach to the “demoralization of civilians.” According to him, it should be possible to demoralize enemy civilian populations by employing less  File: --- delori_memory.pdf --- Page 12 --- 166 Mathias Delori violent instruments – such as propaganda ‒ or by intensifying bombing over a short period of time ( Dafinger, 2018 , 2020 b). The notion of “psychological war - fare” comes directly from this translation work. The main legacy of the USSBS, however, lies elsewhere: in the thinking (and practice) of warfare against groups or states of the Global South. In 1948, the US Air Force set up a research group on the European (mainly British) expertise on aerial “pacification” of the colonies during the interw