ffect, that the bombing of factories had had no measurable impact on productivity, and that the bombing of civilian morale had been a complete failure: “Insofar as the offensive against German cities was intended to break the morale of the German population, it clearly failed.”16 One does not know whether the report was shelved by the British government because of the rise of public opinion critical of the area bombings, particularly the one against the city of Dresden, or because of a specific request from the US Air Force lobby. Andrew Knapp favours the first thesis without excluding the second ( Knapp, 2013 , 2016 ). One thing is sure though: it was not  File: --- delori_memory.pdf --- Page 9 --- The memory of the Allied bombings of World War II 163 published until 1998. This left to the USSBS Morale Division  a sort of monopoly on the assessment of the effect of “strategic” bombing on civilian morale. At the end of 1945, the Morale Division  came across some documents that were, at first sight, interesting for the evaluation of the psychological effects of “strategic” bombing: the “Stimmungsberichte” (literally “mood reports”) of the German intelligence services. These confidential reports were intended to inform the Nazi authorities about the attitude of the population towards the war and the regime. They thus directly crossed the problematic of the Morale Division  of the USSBS. These documents also went against the theory of a demoralizing effect of the bombings. In essence, they explained that the population was tired of being bombed, but that allegiance to the regime remained strong and even increased when the regime managed to show that the bombs were not aimed at factories but at women and children. The USSBS records show that the Morale Division  did consult these reports but chose to ignore them for two reasons. First, Likert felt that documents of this type produced in a totalitarian context could not be taken at face value. By so doing, he anticipated