any sequences in the answers where the interviewees mentioned their “morale.” These indicators were then subsumed into a “morale index” which was set up as a “dependent” variable, i.e., to be explained. The statistical method was then used to test various explanatory hypotheses, including that of a “strategic” effect of bombings. The production of these data and the time required for their analysis explain why the  File: --- delori_memory.pdf --- Page 10 --- 164 Mathias Delori Morale Division ’s reports were published almost a year and a half after the others: in May and June 1947. The context of the interviews was not conducive to the expression of free speech. The interviewers were soldiers of an occupying army. They conducted the interviews in uniform, which could give them an air of police interrogation. Moreover, the “denazification” process had started and rumours had begun to circulate about the administration of a questionnaire that was supposed to deter - mine the degree of complicity of each individual with the Nazi regime (the future “Fragebogen zur Entnazifizierung ,” questionnaire for denazification). Although the interviewers explained the USSBS did not aim at assessing their proximity to the Nazi regime, this was far from an ideal interview situation as described in social science textbooks. The following excerpt from a “control interview” pub - lished as an appendix to the main report of the Morale Division  gives an idea of the biases induced by this method of investigation: Q: “In your opinion, what was the Allies’ objective through these raids?” (A21) A: “The Allies wanted to exhaust the population, incite them to rebel, and thus end the war. If they had not bombed the cities, the war would have lasted much longer and more men would have died at the front” Q: “Did you blame the Allies for the air raids” (A20) A: “Really not. I was listening to the English radio and I knew that we had bombed cities.”18 These questions and the interview context comb