shioned some plans for the rapid modernization of this fleet of “strategic bombers.”22 The role of USSBS in horizontal memory fragmentation The conclusions of the USSBS in favour of “strategic” bombing did not only contribute to convince the American congressmen to create the air force. They immediately infused a multitude of key texts in American strategic thinking. The first and most influential is the infamous NSC-68, written by Paul Nitze and sub - mitted to President Truman two months before the outbreak of the Korean War. This document called for a drastic increase in US military capabilities in all areas, starting with strategic air forces. One year later, while US flying fortresses were bombing Korean cities and villages, another report produced by the Air Force used the conclusions of the USSBS summary reports to justify its demands for the consolidation of its strategic forces ( Irving, 1951 ). In 1953, the Stanford Research Institute submitted another voluminous report to the US government on the les - sons to be learned from the strategic bombings of World War II for the prepara - tion of the US defence system. The text was mainly based on the “canonical” texts of the USSBS, i.e., the three synthesis reports. The Stanford researchers concluded, on this basis, that both precision and area bombing produced interest - ing militarily effects.23 This tradition seemed to run out of steam in the mid-1950s when the Soviet Union began to produce its arsenal of thermonuclear bombs and proved, particu - larly following the successful launch of the Sputnik satellite in 1957, that it could strike directly at the territory of the United States. A second tradition then took off. Its leitmotiv was that the entry into the “nuclear age” made conventional strategic bombing partially obsolete. The most illustrious representative of this epistemic community is Bernard Brodie ( Brodie, 1946 ). However, these proponents of a “revolution in strategic thinking” did not totally r