ment follows a chronological plan. Most of the discussion focuses on the production of the reports between 1945 and 1947 and the knowledge/power operations that were associated with it. I conclude, however, with a section pre - senting the legacy of the USSBS in US “strategic” thinking during the Cold War, a legacy that contributed to the fragmentation of memories between the field of “strategic” studies and other research fields. The initial debate on “strategic” bombings Historians have shown that a multitude of motives helped produce the Allied air war against Germany and Japan: the belief in the effectiveness of “strategic” bombing, the bureaucratic interests of the RAF and the USSAF Air Corps ( Eden, 2004 ), a logic of mimetic rivalry leading to blindness about the military meaning of one’s actions ( Zinn, 2010 ), the “technological fanaticism” of some decision- makers and military commanders ( Sherry, 2012 ), etc. Whatever the practical rea - sons, two strategic rationales contributed to giving meaning to this public action. The first was that the destruction of civilian infrastructure such as railway stations, ports, airports, and factories would lead to a collapse of war production and, in turn, to surrender. The second stated that the disorganization and terror caused by the bombing of residential areas would “demoralize” the population, leading them to revolt against their government or at least to participate less in the war effort. The former was called “precision” bombing and the latter “area” bombing. At the time, the debate on these two types of bombing was posed in different terms. In the case of “precision” bombing, the question initially raised was that of the degree of effectiveness of the bombing and the cost/benefit ratio. Indeed, it is hard to imagine that the destruction of infrastructure useful to the war effort could, in itself, have no positive effect at all. However, there were two hypotheses regarding the possible effects of “area” bombin