before the United States could carry it out” ( Sherry, 2008 , pp. 177‒292). The MIMEN kept working after World War II. Besides, the supporters of strategic bombing implemented an article- and interview-based communication campaign which “persuaded the American public that creating air supremacy would be the least costly and most effective strategy in the face of a Soviet threat that the air itself helped to overstate” ( Lazarowitz, 2005 , pp. 477‒478). However, this view evolved during the mid-1960s. Michael Sherry sees Stanley Kubrick’s 1964 film, Dr. Strangelove, or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb , as a turning point ( Sherry, 2008 , pp. 181‒192). Of course, the critical gaze on strategic bombing only strengthened with the rise of a (sub)culture of anti-militarism after the Vietnam War. The debate on strategic bombings, then, moved from “proph - ecy to memory” ( Sherry, 2008 ), that is to say from belief in the virtues of the air weapon to sympathy for the victims. Since then, comments have ranged from characterizing the “strategic” bombings as a crime against humanity or a war crime ( Bloxham, 2006 ) to formulations suggesting, in a more euphemistic way, that this piece of the Allied war effort was not the most glorious. The development of this moral condemnation of the Allied air wars has gone along, like in Britain, with a critical assessment of their very military effects. This set of critical civil views on the Allied air war contrasts with that found in the field of Anglophone “strategic”4 expertise, and more precisely in the United States. In this field, dominated by think tanks such as the Rand Corporation, the question of the effects of the Allied air war is approached in a more nuanced manner. A distinction is made between bombings directed against civilians and those targeting factories or transport systems, and questions are asked about their respective effects. While there is no shortage of criticism, particularly among defence intel