ront” Q: “Did you blame the Allies for the air raids” (A20) A: “Really not. I was listening to the English radio and I knew that we had bombed cities.”18 These questions and the interview context combined to generate responses in which 68 per cent of those bombed explained that they “did not blame the Allies for the bombing” and 59 per cent had “wished” that their government would sur - render after a raid.19 The Morale Division  concluded, then, that bombing severely depressed the morale of German civilians. (…) Its main psychological effects were defeatism, fear, hopelessness, fatalism, and apa - thy. War weariness, willingness to surrender, loss of hope for German vic - tory, distrust of leaders, feelings of disunity and demoralizing fear were all more common among bombed than unbombed people.20 The report on the Japanese case appeared a month later, in June 1947. It told the same story, using the same statistical artefacts. However, it included an origi - nal argument: the idea of an indirect demoralizing effect. According to this the - ory, the drop in morale would not only be observed in the bombed areas. When the chosen targets were symbolic, as in the bombing of the Japanese capital in February‒March 1945, the psychological effect was perceptible throughout the country. Paul Nitze took up this idea in his summary report on the war in the Pacific. Major-General Lauris Norstad also stressed this point during his hearing before Congress during the debate over the creation of the US Air Force.21 The latter was officially instituted in July 1947. Some of the flying fortresses that had  File: --- delori_memory.pdf --- Page 11 --- The memory of the Allied bombings of World War II 165 bombed Germany and Japan were transferred to this new organization. The latter also fashioned some plans for the rapid modernization of this fleet of “strategic bombers.”22 The role of USSBS in horizontal memory fragmentation The conclusions of the USSBS in favour of “strategic” bombin