944, respectively. The investigators interviewed 200 survivors as well as various local notables. These interviews did not support the thesis of a “demoralizing” effect of the bombings on civilians. For example, a police officer named Puetz explained to investigators that “the people were dazed and depressed for about two weeks following the attack, but soon recovered and were of course very mad at the attackers. Their belief in the ultimate German victory was not affected.”9 The Morale Division  did not communicate the above data to the USSBS sec - retariat. In an undated document, probably produced in the spring of 1945, the person in charge of the survey in Krefeld and Darmstadt explained, on the con - trary, that the bombings had had an interesting strategic effect: “the desire to stop the war as a result of the bombings was reported by 58% of the inhabitants of Krefeld and 55% of the population of Darmstadt. As Darmstadt was “bombed more heavily than Krefeld, and the damage […] much greater,” it appeared, according to him, that “the most heavily bombed city suffered a greater loss of morale.”10 Perera and Cabot relied on the pre-reports of Morale Division  to marginalize Galbraith’s critical theses. In practice, they let the economist produce his special - ized report11 but they took control of the key sections of both the “summary” and the “overall” report: the abstract, the introduction, and the conclusion. These sec - tions contain the idea that has marked the post-war field of “strategic” studies, i.e., that “strategic” bombings played a “decisive” role in defeating Germany. Both synthesis reports remain vague concerning the effects on German war production.  File: --- delori_memory.pdf --- Page 7 --- The memory of the Allied bombings of World War II 161 However, they validate the Douhetian view that the bombing of civilians broke their morale: The night raids were feared far more than daylight raids. The people lost faith in the prospect of victory, in the