officer who was functioning  so superbly as tower operator ."86 87 86 St. Clair McKelway, "A Reporter  with the B-29s " (The New Yorker , June 9, 1945), 34. 87 Hansell, Japan , 41. 88 Mission  Folder no. 13, XXI Bomber Command, Record Group 18, National  Archives  ; Craven and Cate, V, 563 ; Memorandum, December 14, 1944, Record Group 18, File 201, National Archives .On December  18 sixty-three  B-29s bombed the Mitsubishi Plant in Nagoya for a second time . Results  were disappointing with most of the damage being caused by fires set in the city by bombs that missed the target . Four bombers were destroyed in the mission. This only convinced  Hansell further that he needed to set up the Lead Crew School as soon as possible;  the situation  had to be salvaged -- the bombs had to hit their targets .88 Norstad  too felt that action must be taken to change the situation, but he had something more radical in mind. Bolstered  by the results of LeMay's incendiary  attack on the military storage area of the Chinese city of Hankow on 281  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 293 --- December  18 and his own keen interest in incendiary  attacks, on December  19 Norstad sent Hansell a directive  (in Arnold's name) to launch a full-scale  incendiary  attack on Nagoya as soon as one hundred  B-29s were ready to go. He indicated  that it was an "urgent requirement  for planning  purposes . 1,89 Hansell protested  the directive  directly  to Arnold. He pointed out that with great difficulty  he had implanted  the principle  that the mission of the XXI Bomber Command  was the destruction  of primary targets by sustained  attacks using precision  bombing  methods  both visual and radar . Hansell felt that incendiaries  did not have the ballistic  characteristics to hit precision targets . Norstad, of course, had no intention  of attacking  "precision " targets, at least not the way Hansell defined the term. Hansell further explained  to Arnold that, even though he could claim no