eater as there was in the European, Montbatten's  plan would have meant that he, MacArthur,  and Nimitz would be in a continual  tug of war over the allocation and use of the aircraft. The British wanted the Combined Chiefs of Staff to retain control over the bomber force, because  they eventually  planned  to commit RAF heavy bombers to the attack on Japan. Since MATTERHORN  and the planned operations  from the Marianas were American enterprises,  the British did not press the issue. 43 43 Hayes, 591; Craven and Cate, V, 348; Hansell, Japan , 27 .Hansell realized that he must act quickly and at the highest levels in order to secure the command system he desired  for the new Twentieth  Air Force. Hansell  proposed  the establishment  of the headquarters  of the Twentieth Air Force in Washington,  under the command of General Arnold and under the direction  of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He wanted it to be free from local theater  control (except in emergencies)  and he wanted the air force to be totally dedicated to the strategic  bombing  of Japan. General  Arnold had an idea of how he wanted the command structure set up, but he left the details to Hansell. Thus it was Haywood  Hansell who designed 218  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 230 --- the command structure  of the world's first truly independent bombing force and gained acceptance  from the heretofore skeptical  Joint Chiefs . In later years , historian  Murray Green asked Hansell how much of the plan for the command set up of the Twentieth  Air Force was his, and after initial modesty, Hansell admitted  that, even though Arnold approved , the plan had been his. It is clear that Hansell had the unique responsibility  of establishing  new directions  for the Air Force, directions  that he and his colleagues  at ACTS had only dreamed of less than a decade before . 44 44 Hansell , Green Interview,  January 2, 1970. 45 Hansell , Japan , 153.It was important  to establish  underlying  principles  which co