he Hansells 78  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 90 --- particularly  enjoyed the company of the Kuters and the Vandenbergs . Even though Hoyt Vandenberg  was a pursuit advocate,  he, as his biographer  explained,  "played  the role of the arbitrator,  referee, placator, and soother." 75 Once a swimming party was so wild that the commanding  officer at Maxwell almost made Hansell and his companions  foot the bill for draining and refilling  the base pool . The friendships forged at ACTS would last a lifetime. 76 75 Phillip 5. Melinger, Hoyt S. Vandenberg:  The Life of a General , (Indianapolis:  Indiana  University  Press, 1989) , 19. 76 Ibid; Mrs. Haywood  S. Hansell, Jr. , Griffith  Interview.Hansell enjoyed the parties at Maxwell, but he took his duties as instructor  in the Air Force section  very seriously. The course consisted  of five parts  : Principles  and Tactical Doctrine for Combat Aviation, Antiaircraft  Defense, Air Warfare, Air Forces in the Army, and Air Force Operations . His lectures  were meticulously  arranged  with close attention given to every detail . In February  1938 Lieutenant  Colonel Donald Wilson sat in on a lecture and wrote a complimentary critique  of it, reminding  Hansell to stress the necessity  of an independent  air force. Hansell naturally  echoed the air doctrine established  by Wilson and his contemporaries , but added his own touches . Since the Air Corps was supposed  to be a defensive force , Hansell often created hypothetical situations  in which the United States was being invaded from Canada's  Maritime  Provinces  or from European  colonies in the 79  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 91 --- Caribbean and challenged  his students to respond to the threats through detailed  map exercises in which they would apply the principles  of air warfare  against  imaginary  enemies . The training was as practical as possible for American military  forces in the late 1930s.77 77 Haywood  S. Hansell, Jr., "Air Force -