reluctant , however , to challenge  the intelligence  structure which bore such wide and vital support . If the credibility  of that intelligence  base were seriously  impaired the entire structure  of the Air Offensive  might be brought down. As a result, the Team made no effort to include the German electric power system in the CBO plan."95 96 At this point, even Baker had come to believe that electric  power targets  were small and costly objectives .97 95 Craven and Cate, II, 362. 96 Hansell , Air Plan , 162. 97 Copp, Forged in Fire , 384.Hansell and his team estimated  that the destruction  and continued neutralization  of seventy-six  precision targets within six target systems would "gravely impair and might paralyze the western AXIS war effort ." Because of the continued  boat threat , submarine  construction  yards and bases ranked as the number one target system. The German aircraft industry ranked second. Ball bearings , oil, and synthetic rubber ranked third, fourth, and fifth, respectively . 184  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 196 --- Military transport  vehicles ranked sixth. The CBO finally recognized the very real threat from German fighters , realizing  that they could make both daylight  and night bombing unprofitable. Therefore, German fighter strength was no longer an intermediate  target , but second in priority . The report also specifically  called for a "very deep penetration at Schweinfurt . " The idea of such an attack had originated with the COA and was an important  part of the CBO.98 98 "Plan for Combined  Bomber Offensive  From the United Kingdom, " 14 May 1943, File 119.04-6, AFHRC, Maxwell AFB; Craven and Cate, II, 367-369; Fabyanic, 202.with the operational  experience  of the Eighth Air Force behind them, the CBO planners  did not have to rely upon highly theoretical  calculations  as the AWPD planners had. They determined  that their objectives  would be achieved  through a four-phase  plan. In phase one (April - July 1943