s low radar profile which would protect it from being detected  and shot down, and the B-2, which has almost no radar profile . In addition  to the stealth aircraft , the Air Force would attack Soviet ground-based  and air-based radar capabilities  thus suppressing  Soviet air defenses,  which were heavily  dependent  upon radar direction .4 4 Ibid. 5 Personal Interview  by the Author with  Colonel Haywood S. Hansell III, February  16, 1992.The audience reacted politely, but doubtfully. It is appropriate  that this was General Hansell's last public appearance;  he died in November 1988 as he was packing to deliver  a variation  of his speech to the Canadian  War College . His life had been devoted to the theory and practice of strategic  air power — the single most controversial  military debate of the twentieth  century. Since his death, the world has witnessed  the "conventional " air campaign  in the Persian Gulf War and the demise of the Soviet Union which has caused a radical reduction in the American nuclear triad and presented  the world with a wide variety  of potential  military scenarios . Yet, the debate over the proper use of strategic air war continues . It is a debate as old as the airplane itself .5 Unlike surface  warfare  both on land and sea, there could 10  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 22 --- be no Clausewitz , Jomini , or Mahan to form a theory of air war based on historical  precedent . At the beginning  of the First World War the concept of air war was still novel and existed, if at all, in the realm of the fantastic , best exemplified  by H. G. Wells's The War in the Air, which appeared in 1908. Wells described  a German air attack on New York City which caused the city to become , "a furnace of crimson flames . 1,6 Such fantasies  dominated  the popular conception  of air power and brought with them efforts to prevent the unleashing  of such a destructive  force upon mankind. The 1907 Hague Conference  included  a prohibition  on t