he North Korean capital of Pyongyang , but the resolve  of the enemy was not broken . The concept of massive retaliation evolved from the incendiary and nuclear attacks on Japan and 311  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 323 --- virtually  held the world hostage for nearly half a century. In Vietnam ROLLING THUNDER and LINEBACKER  I and II were deployed  against a simple economy  and a resolute  enemy , and if they yielded results they did so at great cost.51 Throughout this time Hansell continued  to proclaim  his selective  bombing doctrine . In 1966 he wrote of the inadequacy  of American nuclear weapons  to respond to every contingency:  "Strange  as it sounds , we are back in our original argument . If we are going back to World War II tactics on the ground in order to achieve flexibility  of response, I think we may have to go back to strategic  bombing attacks against industrial  targets using limited  weapons . We can apply flexible  response  in air warfare if need be. We can go all the way from megaton 'H' bombs down to low-yield atomic bombs, and on down to conventional  bombs . "52 51 Sherry, Rise , 175-176; Bombs , 148, 152-153. 52 Haywood S. Hansell, (Aerospace  Historian , WinterHansell was also a strong advocate of the Strategic Defense Initiative  and the development  of the B-2 Bomber . He knew that the capabilities  of a strategic  bomber force were dictated  by the existing  technology.  He, therefore,  advocated advances in technology  which would ultimately  make selective bombing  the most desirable  and practical  course for the United States Air Force to follow. During the Persian Gulf War precision  attacks  by individual  aircraft  were highly effective Schaffer,  Wings , 190-191; Crane , Jr., "Strategic  Air Warfare, " 1966), 160 . 312  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 324 --- against selected targets . According to Conrad Crane  : "Traditional  strategic  bombing  by mass raids of B-52s was not a factor in Coalition  victory