ake the P-12 on a practice  run with 70 pounds of sand in the baggage compartment  to check the aircraft's  performance  with the extra weight . While over Black River near Hampton, Virginia, the airplane  went into a violent  maneuver  and fell into a tail spin. When he realized that he could not recover from the spin he bailed out and parachuted  into the icy river , where with great difficulty  he released himself and swam to a nearby duck blind. Major George Kenny, who happened to be flying close by, saw the accident  and directed  the rescue boat to Hansell . After about twenty minutes the rescue boat arrived, but got stuck in the mud. An oyster fisherman  finally  rescued  him and he was taken to Fort Monroe where he was treated for shock and exposure .22 A local newspaper  quoted Hansell's fellow officers as stating that, "Lieut. Hansell displayed  unusual presence of mind in the difficult  position  in which he found himself when 52  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 64 --- the ship failed to straighten  out of the spin." 23 While in the hospital  at Fort Monroe Hansell received  a telegram  from Ira Baker which welcomed  him to the Caterpillar  Club since he had ridden a silk parachute  to safety. If his peers were impressed  with his flying abilities,  his superiors  were not. With tight budgets every airplane  counted, so the Army charged Hansell the $10,000 or so for the lost P-12. Naturally, Hansell could not afford to pay such a sum so after the Army had made its point the issue was quietly dropped .24 23 unidentified  newspaper article from the Hansell Family's  private collection. 24 James Parton, Air Force Spoken Here: General Ira Eaker and Command of the Air, (Bethesda,  Maryland:  Adler and Adler Publishers , Inc., 1986), 179; Haywood  S. Hansell III, Griffith Interview.Hansell had received  his regular commission  as a second lieutenant  in the Army on June 12, 1929, thus insuring his future. That future was further brightened  in 1930 when