randum  on Bombardment  Planning  Documents , " Tab C, 2.The findings  of the COA became the basis for the Combined Bomber Offensive  plan . Hansell was shocked when he saw the new target priorities  and Baker originally  considered  the COA to be at least a nuisance  and possibly  even dangerous . Target number one was the German aircraft  industry. An entirely  new target system, ball bearings , was given second place . Petroleum  products  came in third, followed  by grinding  wheels and crude abrasives  at fourth . Non-ferrous  metals such as copper, aluminum,  and zinc were at fifth. Sixth place went to synthetic rubber and seventh went to submarine yards and bases . Hansell's  electric power system had been relegated from second place in AWPD-1 and fourth place in AWPD-42 to thirteenth  place in the COA report .93 Even Craven and Cate characterize  the omission of electric  power as "curious, " but the COA reasoned  that "... in almost no instance  is any single industry  dependent  upon one generating  plant but rather upon a network which pools the greater part of the electrical  energy within an area."94 According  to their estimates , sixty targets would have to be destroyed  to keep the Rhine - Rhur and Central Germany areas inoperable . In retrospect  it was certainly  a mistake to 183  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 195 --- underrate  the value of electric targets , but as Craven and Cate point out, this came not "from a lack of prescience  but of adequate information  regarding the situation as it currently  prevailed.  . .1,95 Hansell, as chairman  and director of the CBO planning  committee,  could have elevated  the status of electric  power as a target system. He later explained  his reason for not pursuing the issue  : "The Planning team was reluctant , however , to challenge  the intelligence  structure which bore such wide and vital support . If the credibility  of that intelligence  base were seriously  impaired the entire structure  o