Air Corps primary flight training  at March Field, California,  in March 1928. From the minute he got in the airplane  his whole life turned around; he had found the direction  his life had needed. By November 1928 he had completed the Primary Flying School and the Basic Flying School at March Field. In March 1929 he graduated  from the Air Corps Advanced Flying School at Kelly Field near San Antonio, Texas, and was commissioned  as a reserve second lieutenant. This marked a major turning point in Hansell's life. First, he had pleased his parents, his father especially,  who conceded  that at last young Possum was going to turn out all right after all. But more importantly, Hansell had finally  determined  his own course and had set out on the quest of his choosing. 20 Hansell's first duty assignment was with the 2nd Bombardment  Group at Langley  Field, Virginia. Even though he was assigned  to a bombardment  group he had piloted at least twelve different types of aircraft. His main interest at Langley  was in testing the capabilities  of various airplanes and in so doing was involved in three accidents . Two accidents  occurred  in 1930. The first was a failed take off 51  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 63 --- in a C-1C in six inches of snow at Uniontown,  Pennsylvania . Weather conditions  were blamed for the first accident, but pilot error was blamed for the second accident at Fredericksburg , Virginia, in which he suffered  a ground loop upon landing a P-1F. Both accidents  were considered  to be minor and there were no serious injuries .21 21 Accident  Reports , File 200.3912-1,  AFHRC , Maxwell AFB. 22 Shalett , 95.In 1931 Hansell suffered  a more serious accident while conducting  tests which would allow a P-12 to carry a radio . He was instructed  to take the P-12 on a practice  run with 70 pounds of sand in the baggage compartment  to check the aircraft's  performance  with the extra weight . While over Black River near Hampton, Virginia, the airp