l war making plants...there were logical grounds for attacking  them. "46 It is most significant  that the interest in incendiary  attacks came before Hansell actually began operations  against  Japan . The case has been made that the Air Force resorted  to incendiaries  in response  to the failure of the XXI Bomber Command  to hit the assigned  targets . But since the case for the attacks predates Hansell's  efforts, it is apparent that the fire bombing of Japanese cities was ultimately  the result of the technology  which made the fire bombing possible, the desire on the part of the Air Force to end the war before an invasion, and the perceived  desire for vengeance  by the American  public . 45 Schaffer,  Wings , 30. 46 Ibid, 164.Daylight,  precision  bombing had become the American  air 259  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 271 --- doctrine  through the efforts of ACTS . Hansell and his fellow instructors  had taught hundreds of officers the principles behind selective  bombing. They had given the doctrine a permanent  place in American  war plans in AWPD-1 , and Hansell had insured its predominance  in AWPD-42 and the plan for the Combined  Bomber Offensive . There was no reason for Hansell suspect that daylight, precision  bombing was in danger of being dropped as the preferred  method of bombing Japan. As war approached  in 1939, General Arnold had been concerned  that not all eligible officers could attend the nine-month  course offered by ACTS. He, therefore,  shortened the course to twelve weeks . This so-called  "short course" reflected  the same curriculum,  but in a more abbreviated  form. Also, by this time the "Bomber Radicals" such as George , Walker, Hansell, and Kuter were no longer instructors . Those who attended  the "short course" in the 1939-40 session later spoke of only having ninety days at ACTS, LeMay flatly admitting that he learned " not much" at ACTS . Arnold naturally did not attended ACTS, but the officers who advocated  and ul