expected to defend and supply and support  those forces in competition  with his own requirements . I don't like it. ' Then he grinned  and said, 'But I don't have a better solution. I'll buy it.'" General Marshall  was not in his office, but Handy was sure that he would go along, since Admiral King and General Marshall were in agreement . Handy agreed to approve the plan in Marshall's  name.47 48 47 Craven and Cate, V, 38. 48 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 158.After the Navy staff won a small battle by rewording the provision  that would give theater  commanders  temporary  control of the VLR bomber force in an emergency,  the Twentieth  Air 221  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 233 --- Force was created by order of the JCS on April 4, 1944. It reflected  both of the theories  put forth at ACTS in the 1930s and the recent experiences  of strategic  air war in Europe . Hansell  had reason to be proud of his creation. The Twentieth Air Force would be under the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Commanding  General of the Army Air Forces . Major decisions concerning  deployment , missions , and target objectives  would be made by these agencies . In an emergency  situation  the theater commander  might take control of the B-29 force . Area commanders  would be responsible  for providing  bases, while the theater air commander  would provide for the administration  of the force . Directives  would be formed with a minimum of friction  and General Arnold would have direct command through his commander  in the field. 49 49 Hayes , 594-595; Craven and Cate, V, 38. 50 Sherry, Rise , 219.The world's first global bomber force had just been created. The significance  of this event cannot be lost on a world that saw the Cold War dominated  by the Strategic  Air Command, the logical successor  to the Twentieth  Air Force . Also, according to Michael Sherry, the creation of the Twentieth  Air Force signaled  the end of President  Roosevelt's direct involvement  in the formulatio