a night attack. Bomb damage was not serious, but Wolfe showed that, in the face of tremendous logistical  problems, he could carry out the kind of mission Hansell wanted. But by this time it was too late.67 67 Craven and Cate, V, 114. 68 Sherry, Rise , 176.Hansell had been relieved  from duty as the Deputy Chief of the Air Staff and Chief of Staff of the Twentieth  Air Force on August 10. He was to take command of the XXI Bomber Command, which was destined  to operate from the Marianas, on August 20. At the same time General  Arnold decided  that Wolfe would be relieved  of command . He had set up the initial B-29 operations,  as Michael  Sherry observed, "almost in defiance  of operational  constraints." 68 Considering  the fact that the B- 29 was a new, untried aircraft and that the physical restraints  of operating  in the CBI Theater  were overwhelming , Wolfe had done the impossible. Months later in a letter to General Spaatz, Arnold admitted, "With due respect to Wolfe he did his best, and he did a grand job, but LeMay's operations 233  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 245 --- make Wolfe's very amateurish.  1,69 LeMay, fresh from the Eighth Air Force in England, arrived  to take command  of the XX Bomber Command on August 29, 1944. Brigadier  General Lauris Norstad would assume Hansell's  position  as chief of staff; this was an ominous development  because  Norstad  did not share Hansell's  belief in daylight,  precision  bombardment  and would have tremendous  influence  on Arnold. 69 70 69 Craven and Cate, V, 104. 70 Ibid, 115.Hansell now stood at the pinnacle  of his career. He had created  and was to command  the strategic  instrument  that could force Japan to surrender  without an invasion  and thus prove what he and his colleagues  had maintained  since their days at ACTS : daylight, precision  bombing , when correctly  applied, could bring an enemy to his knees . Hal George and Larry Ku ter were out of the picture  because  of other military  a