ugh strategic bombing , the 114  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 126 --- selection  of targets was of the utmost importance . Hansell was the foremost targeting  expert in the Army Air Forces. Drawing from his experiences  as student and instructor  at ACTS, as air intelligence  expert , and as an observer of British  air operations  and intelligence,  he accepted  the task of selecting  targets for the AWPD-1 plan with the confidence of a professional.  He set out to find the answers to the myriad questions  which accompany  the task of targeting:  what were the important  links in the German economy; which targets were most vulnerable;  which targets  would be most difficult  to harden; which targets within a given target system should be hit first; how often the targets should be hit?56 57 56 Hansell, Air Plan , 79. 57 Ibid, 85. 58 AWPD-1, Tab 2.With only a few days to complete the task, Hansell was ready . As he later recalled, "After putting  as many pieces of the puzzle together as were available  to us, we pinpointed some 154 targets which, we felt, would disrupt or neutralize the German war making capability  provided, of course, they could be destroyed or kept out of operation.  1,57 These targets were divided into four broad target systems, which were listed in order of priority. Electric  power was listed as the first target system, followed  by inland transportation, the petroleum industry, and the bombing of the civil population  of Berlin. 58 115  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 127 --- Hansell estimated  that the destruction  of fifty electric generating  stations in Germany  would result in the denial to Germany  of 40% of her electric  power generating  capacity.  This would " in all probability  cause the collapse of the German military and civil establishment. 1,59 He further estimated that destruction  of the fifty targets would require 1,500 group missions over the prescribed  six-month  period. Major Moss's assessment  of the Ge