he Hansell household. 28 In Mrs. Hansell's eyes her husband's  priorities  were clear: the Air Corps came first, polo came second, and she ran a distant third. Soon after the birth of their first child 55  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 67 --- Hansell returned  home after six weeks of temporary  duty away from Maxwell . He brought two young lieutenants  home for dinner and Mrs. Hansell had prepared  a sumptuous  meal . Just as dinner began the baby began to cry upstairs prompting Hansell to exclaim, "What in heaven's  name is that?" "That, " Mrs. Hansell responded, "is your son!" and stormed away in anger . She was also expected  to participate  in activities  she detested,  such as afternoon  teas , bridge games, and, worst of all, riding lessons . One afternoon  she decided not to go to her riding lesson, but her husband became so angry at this that he punched a hole in the screen door . She went to the lesson because, like his father, Hansell demanded  that every member of the family live up to expectations .29 29 Ibid.Hansell  served as assistant  operations  officer  at Maxwell Field, his first real position  in the Air Corps . In addition to flying, he was involved  in day-to-day  base operations . He apparently  had enough time to continue his tradition of writing ditties which turned into Air Corps songs . During this period he wrote such enduring  favorites  as "Eight Bucks a Day," "The Formation, " "The Old Bombardment  Group, " and "Old 97. " He also assisted  Captain Harold George in a number of projects  including  a study of the antiaircraft  defenses  of the Panama Canal . The working  relationship  and friendship  between Hansell and George would last a lifetime and would be an important  boost to Hansell's  career. Up to this point Hansell 56  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 68 --- had considered  himself a pursuit pilot, but George dealt with bombardment . The contact between the two gave Hansell his first real exposure to the pote