lone, and thus the separate  chain of command of the Twentieth  Air Force would be meaningless .61 61 Hansell , Strategic  Air War, 183.The second crisis manifested  itself in a message from General Arnold. Arnold had forwarded  a copy of the plan for SAN ANTONIO I to General George Kenney , commander  of the Far Eastern Air Force. Kenney contended  that the B-29s lacked sufficient  range to carry out the mission and that Japanese fighters would shoot them out the air in any case, and was opposed to carrying out a daylight raid on Tokyo . Arnold professed his respect for the skeptics and that he was inclined  to agree with them. Hansell later recalled, "General Arnold did not direct me to abandon or modify the mission. Rather he put me on record as having been warned . . .He left the 267  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 279 --- decision  up to me and said that if I chose to go ahead, then he wished me luck. The effect was chilling. The warning  was coming from the very area in which I had expected  the firmest support ."62 Arnold had cleared himself of culpability  if the mission should fail -- Hansell would bear full responsibility for any disaster . Four days before the mission  was to proceed Hansell received  a message from Arnold reminding  him how the success of the entire program  of the Army Air Forces rests on the results of the Tokyo mission. He concluded  the letter  : "I know that you are doing everything  within your power to make them highly successful . I am confident  that because of your effort they will be successful." 63 Hansell was, however , still on his own. 62 Hansell , Japan , 37; Hansell , Yenne Interview;  LeMay and Yenne , Superfortress , 101. 63 Arnold to Hansell, November  13, 1944, Record Group 18, File 201, National  Archives . 64 Hansell, Japan , 37-38.The third crisis must have come as a shock for Hansell . General  O'Donnell  gave Hansell  a hand-written  note in which he suggested  abandoning  the daylight mission and condu