w,  January 2, 1970; Craven and Cate, V, 567. 4 Hansell, Japan , 49.Hansell rejected the offer of remaining as deputy commander,  "under the stress of surprise  and emotion,  " but he always felt that he had made the proper decision. LeMay had been Hansell's  subordinate  in the 1st Bomb Wing in England  and now, under the new command  arrangement  would be his commander. Hansell knew that this new situation  would not work: ". . . I knew him [LeMay] well enough to know that he needed no second string to this bow. He did not need a second in command, and I would have been unhappy  as a figurehead.  Furthermore,  it is not a good thing to replace a commander  and leave him in a subordinate  position  in his own outfit." 4 Even though Hansell could have had his choice of command assignments,  he decided to return home. Hansell's  strong sense of honor forbade him from staying on with the command  he had built and loved, just as when he had been relieved  as captain of cadets at Sewanee 286  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 298 --- Military  Academy  and had rejected  his West Point appointment. 5 St. Clair McKelway, who was quartered  very close to Hansell's tent and kept a close watch on his activities, approached  Hansell to ask the reason for Norstad's  visit. It was then he learned  that Hansell  had been relieved  of command . When asked the reason, Hansell replied: "I don't think ' — he emphasized and considered the word -- 'that they are dissatisfied  with the way I've been running things. There is nothing to indicate  that ... I think what's happened  is that the boss [Arnold] has decided LeMay is the best man to go on with this from here out." 6 Hansell would spend nearly the next half century  pondering  the reasons for his relief. 5 Giles, Green Interview,  May 12, 1970. 6 St. Clair McKelway, "A Reporter with  the B-29s," (The New Yorker , June 16, 1945), 32. 7 Hansell, Japan , 140-143.A number of factors were responsible  for Hansell's downfall. One