been one mistake, going to his father about it would have been another . The incident taught him the virtues of self denial for the rest of the school term as well as the evils of gambling;  he never gambled again. He joined the Sigma Nu Fraternity  and enjoyed the parties which went along with college life . His 47  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 59 --- nickname seemed even more appropriate  as he tried to stay awake in his morning classes after a night of drinking .15 15 Haywood S. Hansell III, Griffith Interview; Mrs. Haywood  2. Hansell, Jr., Griffith  Interview;  Dennett Hansell, Griffith  Interview. 16 Ibid.His carefree attitude caught up with him in his differential  equations  class . It looked as if he would take an "F" in the class despite his belated efforts . At first he decided to escape the situation  by quitting  school and going to work, but Colonel Hansell refused to allow that . His next ploy was a request to transfer to another school , but again his father refused to hear of it. Finally Possum decided to tell his father the truth . Colonel Hansell's  response was predictable;  he indicated  that he was sorry to hear the news and then asked his son where he intended  to live . This made passing  the class a "do or die" situation. Possum went to his professor  with the problem  and the professor,  probably  hoping to give the young man enough rope to hang himself , gave him an equation which would be nearly impossible  to solve . That equation  became the focus of Possum's life for several weeks until , much to the professor's  surprise, he solved it. Not only did he pass the course and redeem himself with his father, he did so with a good grade . Once again Colonel Hansell had provided  enough incentive  to insure success .16 Not all incentive,  however , came from his father . Possum decided  that he would play football  with the nationally  famous 48  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 60 --- Georgia Tech team. At around 125 pounds