e seriously  damaged . Wolfe and Saunders  had to supply and operate the 58th Bombardment  Wing which consisted  of 112 aircraft  amid such difficulties . There was a shortage  of transport  aircraft, therefore  the B-29s had to transport  their own gas and bombs from India to the Chinese bases before they could fly a combat mission. This amounted to four transport  missions  for every single combat sortie a B- 29 flew. The XX Bomber Command would not even be self­ sufficient  until July 1944, when they were able to haul 3,000 tons of supplies  on their own airplanes,  thus allowing  for 115 sorties or about one mission involving  the entire wing.58 Arnold was anxious for MATTERHORN  operations  to begin. And, in spite of McClelland's  excellent  communications  system, the twelve thousand  miles that separated  the headquarters  in 227  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 239 --- Washington  from the field headquarters  in India and China only frustrated  him more . On May 10, 1944, Arnold suffered  his third heart attack in fourteen  months . This attack was not as severe as those that preceded  it, but his doctor sent him to Coral Gables, Florida, to rest and recuperate . Arnold's absence  placed Hansell in active control of the Twentieth  Air Force. This (as we have seen) was nothing  new, because  Arnold was constantly  away from Washington  and Hansell had matters well in hand even when Arnold was present. As combat operations  commenced, the it is obvious that Hansell had Arnold's ear and that operations would clearly reflect Hansell's beliefs concerning daylight , precision bombardment .59 59 Coffey, Hap, 343. 60 Craven and Cate, V, 95.The first combat mission of the XX Bomber Command was conducted  against  Bangkok, Thailand,  on the June 5, 1944. The lack of training was evident in this daylight , precision bombing attack. There was a severe need for high-altitude formation practice; the rendezvous,  gunnery, and bombing (visual and radar ) were defici