RHORN  saw much more resistance. Neither the Joint or Combined  Planners  showed much enthusiasm for operating  B-29s from China. Practically  every member showed some objection  or at least some uncertainty.  Hansell seems to have been the only optimist  among the planners . He felt that it was up to him "to carry the ball" on MATTERHORN . As historian  Grace Pearson  Hayes observed, "At the JPS meeting Brigadier General Haywood S. Hansell said he thought the problem  of maintaining  B-29's in China could be solved and he was not sure that invasion  was necessary  to accomplish  Japan's 206  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 218 --- defeat . 1,23 Political  considerations , perhaps more than any other factor, caused the approval of MATTERHORN  at Cairo. President  Roosevelt  was adamant in his determination  to aid China in some way and the Chinese wanted to expand operations in their theater. The British  agreed to build bases in India and the Chinese agreed to provide bases in China.23 24 23 Hayes, 501; Hansell, Green Interview,  January  2, 1970. 24 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 147-148; Eric Larrabee, Commander in Chief: Franklin Delano Roosevelt, His Lieutenants,  and Their War, (New York: Harper and Row, 1987), 611. 25 Arnold Diaries; Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 140.Hansell was indeed busy at Cairo. He was not only responsible  for his planning  meetings, but also for keeping General Arnold informed  and for working  with the Allies. His meetings  with Arnold, Kuter, Vandenberg,  and O'Donnell  were often followed by tea with Sir Charles Portal and Lord Mountbatten,  where they discussed  the potential  problems of the B-29 in India and China. While the President  and most of the military  staff traveled  on to Tehran for the meeting  with Stalin, Hansell remained behind to work on plans for the strategic  air war against Japan. When Arnold returned on December 2, Hansell reported his progress, and when the official portrait of the air staff was made, H