emained behind to work on plans for the strategic  air war against Japan. When Arnold returned on December 2, Hansell reported his progress, and when the official portrait of the air staff was made, Hansell was seated in a place of prominence. 25 After the Cairo-Tehran  Conferences,  General Marshall learned that General Eisenhower  would command  OVERLORD. Even 207  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 219 --- though his command concerns were still global, General Marshall did not want to face the British who were still trying to get him to support the diversion of precious resources  to Rhodes. In order to avoid the issue, he chose to fly home via the Far East. Hansell was selected  to make the trip with him. A C-54 took them from Cairo to Karachi, then to Ceylon, where they fueled up for the long flight across the Indian Ocean to Exmouth  Bay, Australia. From there they flew to Darwin, where they were met by Lieutenant  General George Kenney, MacArthur's  air commander. Kenney escorted  them to Port Moresby, New Guinea, and then to Goodenough  Island where General MacArthur was conferring with General Krueger, commander of the Sixth Army, who was about to commence operations  on the island of New Britain. 26 egïc Air War, 148; George C. Kenney, General Kenney Reports: A Personal History of the Pacific War, (New York : Duel, Sloan and Pearce, 1949), 332.This was the first meeting  between  Marshall  and MacArthur in eight years and the only time the two met during the war. According to MacArthur's  biographer, D. Clayton James, MacArthur  considered  conducting  the Cape Gloucester  operations in person, "thus relieving Marshall of his presence." Hansell's  account of the meeting claims that if there was embarrassment  on MacArthur's  part he did not reveal it. After an inspection  tour with General Krueger, Generals Marshall,  MacArthur,  Kenney, and Hansell  had a private  meeting 26 David Eisenhower,  Eisenhower  At War 1943-1945 , (New York: Random House, 1