ched at sea with the entire crew being rescued. Losses amounted to less than two percent of the attacking  force. 70 70 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 189; Hansell, Japan , 39; Mission Folder no. 7, XXI Bomber Command, Record Group 18, National  Archives;  Craven and Cate, V, 558-559. 71 Communique,  November 24, 1944, Record Group 18, File 201, National  Archives.Hansell had "sweated  out" the mission in the tower. The operation  lasted twelve to fourteen  hours and the return was at night. There were no runway lights and only smudge pots illuminated  the way. Two groups flew on to Guam because of the congestion  and returned the next morning. The first communique  to be released stated: "Fires in the target" ..."the first reconnaissance  photographs  showed fires still burning in central Tokyo after the attack, and smoke rising to great heights in the industrial  areas that were bombed."71 Hansell was displeased  with the bombing because  the targets, both primary and secondary  were far from the center of Tokyo where the fires were burning, but there would be time to improve bombing accuracy. Of the eighty-eight  bombers which attacked, only two were lost. The Japanese  Air Force could not prevent B-29 operations  over Japan. This was Hansell's moment of triumph. World reactions were swift. Arnold sent his congratulations:  "You have successfully  engaged the enemy in 272  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 284 --- the very heart of his empire . This marks the beginning  of what I know will be a most distinguished  career for the Twenty-First  Bomber Command . We are proud of you. Good luck and God bless you."72 Newspapers  in America ran headlines announcing  the attacks . The Atlanta Constitution  exclaimed: "BIG FIRES RAGE IN TOKYO AFTER RAVAGING  B-29 BLOW; " the New York Times announced:  "TOKYO AIRPLANT  SMASHED, FIRES RAGE IN CITY. " The accounts were exaggerated,  but the message was implicit  : the Japanese  were being paid back for Pearl Harbor . The