US Fleet...Would it not be sensible to concentrate  the very long- range bombers in a strategic  air force under General Arnold. .. . ? Under this arrangement , the B-29s would actually fall under the control of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, with General Arnold serving not only as Commanding  General , but also as executive  agent for the Joint Chiefs . The Joint Chiefs would provide unified strategic  air objectives . Like fleet units of the Navy, logistic  support could be provided through directives  to appropriate  area and theater commanders . Admiral King reflected  for a moment and then said, ' I could find such an arrangement  acceptable .'" 46 46 Ibid, 26.This was one of the few times that Admiral  King readily  agreed to an Army proposal during the war. Hansell's  success was something  of a coup . As Craven and Cate observed, "In view of the Navy's attitude toward strategic  bombardment  in general 220  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 232 --- and the MATTERHORN  project in particular,  Admiral King's advocacy of the AAF view in this issue is difficult to explain; but the record is as precise as his motives are uncertain. 1,47 Hansell then prepared  to bring the issue before General Marshall . After a meeting  with Generals  Fairchild  and Kuter , he took the proposal over to the War Department  Operations Division  and presented  it to Major General Thomas T. Handy, Marshall's  Deputy for Plans and Operations . Handy's response was at first disappointing:  "I'll tell you the truth, Hansell , I don't like any part of this paper . It violates the principle  of unity of command in a theater of war. It inserts operational  forces into a commander's  area of responsibility but gives him no control of those forces . At the same time, the theater commander  is expected to defend and supply and support  those forces in competition  with his own requirements . I don't like it. ' Then he grinned  and said, 'But I don't have a better solution. I'll buy it.'" Ge