nce.  In his lectures,  he would routinely  compare the theory being taught at ACTS with actual air combat in China 86  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 98 --- and Spain . For example he stated that the Spanish Civil War did not apply to aerial warfare (at least not strategic bombing) because since both sides desired the occupation  of the country, air forces alone could not possibly  achieve the desired objective ." Hansell also had a firm grasp of the principles  of economic  warfare. In a speech given around 1938 before the Montgomery,  Alabama, Chamber  of Commerce  he offered insight into Germany's  reasons for approaching  another war: "Germany's  prosperity  is dependent  upon the acquisition  of raw materials  and markets. Hence Germany's  national policy is necessarily  concerned  with obtaining  these essentials." 93 94 93 Hansell, "Tactical  Offense - Tactical  Defense." 94 Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., "The Air in War," The Papers of Haywood  Hansell (Microfilm  Edition) , USAFHRC , Maxwell AFB. 95 Hansell, "Air Operations  -- Counter-Air  Force."In retrospect,  many mistakes were made by the men who developed  the air war theories at ACTS. They over estimated the effect of bombardment  on the civilian population,  with Hansell writing, "... we know from our analysis of our own vulnerability  to air attack that our national  structure  might be almost completely  disrupted  in a very brief period of time." 95 Target selection  was to be far more difficult  than was thought at the time and they overrated  the destructive power of explosive  bombs. ACTS also missed the mark in its evaluation  of enemy fighter opposition  in their mistaken belief that bombers alone could successfully  penetrate  enemy 87  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 99 --- air space with minimal losses . ACTS was true to its motto because they were unhindered  by custom, but they were hindered by a rapidly  changing  technology  and a rapidly  changing  world situation. It mus