aywood  S. Hansell, Jr., "Harold  George: Apostle of Air Power, " in Makers of the United States Air Force ed. John L. Frisbee, (New York: International  Defense Publishers, Inc., 1989), 76-77; Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 7. 64 Hansell, "Harold George," 77.Of all the instructors  at ACTS, Harold George certainly had the greatest impact on Hansell, so great that Hansell later referred  to him as a "prophet of air power." George's most important contribution  to the strategic air doctrine being formulated  at Maxwell was his ability to state the new objective  of air war. He and Kenneth  Walker had developed  an air war theory consistent with Douhet, Trenchard, and Mitchell:  air power could decide the outcome of war. Before the President's  Commission on Aviation in 1934 George explained the new interpretation  of an old Clausewitzian theory: "The object of war is now and always has been the overcoming  of the hostile will to resist. The defeat of the enemy's armed forces is not the ultimate object in war; the occupation  of his territory  as a military  operation  is not necessarily  the object in war. Each of these is merely a means to an end; and the end is overcoming  his will to resist. When that will is broken down, when that will disintegrates, then capitulation  follows." 64 This belief made two bold assumptions.  First, since the pure Douhetian  theory of direct 73  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 85 --- attacks  against  civilians  had been rejected,  the bombers  would have to hit highly selective  targets . Secondly, the bombers would have to reach the targets with out being shot down.65 66 65 Hansell, Air Plan , 4, 23, 32. 66 Finney, 31. 67 Sherry, Rise , 53; Crane , Bombs, Cities, and Civilians , 19, 20; Hansell, "Harold George, " 78.in a 1933 lecture Donald Wilson stated that the goal was to "select targets whose destruction  would disrupt the entire fabric of an enemy's economy and thereby discommode  the civilian  population  in its normal d