l was apparently  concerned  about his chief's attitude, because on July 26, 1944, he hand-delivered  a memorandum  to General Arnold: "Mere tonnage of explosives  is a fallacious  criterion. In the final analysis,  the victories are achieved because of the effect produced, not simply because of the effort expended ."42 43 Yet Arnold reminded Hansell two months later  : "Consequently  every bomb that is added to each airplane  that takes off for Japan will directly affect the length of the war."44 Arnold wanted quantifiable results, the kind which would be more readily discernable through fire bombing . 42 Sherry, Rise , 230. 43 Hansell to Arnold, July 26, 1944, Record Group 18, File 373.2, National  Archives . 44 Hansell, Japan , 129.The kind of bombing advocated  in Washington  in the fall of 1944 was closer to the Douhetian  vision than anything  the Army Air Forces had considered  before. This was, in effect , a complete  reversal  of policy. In a lecture in the late 193 0s entitled "The Aim in War," Hansell expressed  the prevailing 258  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 270 --- American attitude  : "Let us make it emphatically  clear that that [strategic  bombing] does not mean the indiscriminate bombing of women and children." 45 The American  public , after three years of brutal war in the Pacific, had come to see the Japanese  as inhuman  monsters  worthy of extermination.  At the highest level of decision  making the perception  was much the same . In justification  of his proposal  for incendiary  attacks Colonel Perera, of the Committee  of Operations  Analysts and the Twentieth  Air Force Staff, stated that the United States was at war "with a fanatic enemy whose record of brutality  was notorious , and if his cities were indeed honeycombed  with small war making plants...there were logical grounds for attacking  them. "46 It is most significant  that the interest in incendiary  attacks came before Hansell actually began operations  against  Japan