gic  air campaign against Germany even though they made a significant contribution  to the air war with the services of Brigadier General Billy Mitchell . Mitchell commanded  the largest air effort of the war and envisioned  parachuting  an entire army division  behind enemy lines, but these actions, both real and proposed, lay within the realm of the tactical , not the strategic . If the war had carried over into 1919, the Allies (particularly  the Americans)  could have amassed a formidable air armada , but with the Armistice  in November  1918, the heady plans for 1919 were never carried out.19 The strategic  bomber turned out to be only a shadow of the threat it was believed  to pose prior to the First World War. Cities were attacked, but not one of the belligerents 19  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 31 --- was seriously  damaged, much less induced to sue for peace because  of bomber attacks . Yet the lessons of the First World War would work in favor of strategic bombing . Tens of millions  had been killed or wounded on the Western Front and other battlegrounds . Victory  for the Allies came only through bloody attrition  after four years of unimaginable  horror and sacrifice. The static stalemate  which was trench warfare cried out for an alternative  to the terrible slaughter . Strategic  bombing was to be that alternative , as Lee Kennett observed : "Only strategic  air power seemed to offer a real alternative  to the bloody, indecisive  collisions  along a static front  : the swift, deep, surgically  precise stroke at just the right objective  -- what Clausewitz  called the enemy's center of gravity -- would ensure his rapid collapse. ”20 20 Kenne11 , The First Air War, 221.Other lessons were learned as well . The bombing of London caused panic in the streets , but also caused absenteeism  and falling production in the city's war industries . Crowds stampeded during air raids on London and Paris , causing a number of deaths . These lessons seemed t