een released over the target, twenty-six  of which landed within one- thousand feet of the target, destroying  a small torpedo warehouse  and there was some damage to the dock area. A ground report claimed that the Penhoutet  were put completely out of action, but, in reality, the submarine  base was unfazed by the attack and "work proceeded without let or hindrance . "54 Hansell  was clearly  shaken by the ordeal when he arrived 164  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 176 --- back at Brampton  Grange . He recognized  that there was a lack of discipline  in formation  flying, which had caused not only poor bombing results, but also weakened the mutually- supporting  defensive  fire of the B-17 formations.  Determined to improve the efficiency  of his unit, Hansell set out to correct the problems which had made the St. Nazaire raid a near-disaster . He clearly  was not satisfied  with the raid and shortly after the event he expressed his intentions,  "It was quite apparent that we are going to have to solve our own problems  in our own way, because there was no support , there was no recourse but to abandon it [daylight bombing]." 55 Hansell had no intention  of giving up on the theories of daylight,  precision  bombing he had espoused  at ACTS, but now the old ACTS motto, Proficimus  More Irretenti (We Make Progress  Unhindered  by Custom) was probably  more a source of anxiety than pride. 55 Hansell, Hopper Interview.The 1st Bombardment  Wing was not the precision  strategic instrument  it was designed  to be. In the brief time General Kuter had been in command he had begun to address problems that he had inherited. Colonel LeMay, with Kuter's encouragement  had designed  the basic idea behind the "combat box " and each of the groups had been working on their navigation  and bombing  accuracy. Yet Hansell's  evaluation  of his wing's performance  set the tone for his first weeks in 165  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 177 --- command, "I was shocked at