w,  May 12, 1970. 6 St. Clair McKelway, "A Reporter with  the B-29s," (The New Yorker , June 16, 1945), 32. 7 Hansell, Japan , 140-143.A number of factors were responsible  for Hansell's downfall. One was Hansell's  relationships  with seniors and subordinates.  The incident  with General Hale was foremost  in Hansell's  mind in March 1945 when he wrote about the event in detail to General Harmon. 7 Hansell's  chief of staff, Colonel Montgomery  also suspected  that this and other incidents  played a part in the decision: "Possum ... had gotten in some bad straits with people in the theater [.] General Hale, he crossed  with him, and O'Donnell  never liked Hansell. He was a close friend of Arnold's  I'm sure. In fact, Rosie told me, 287  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 299 --- he did what he could to encourage  Hap to get rid of Possum. I always believed, I don't have any proof of this , but I always believed  that Rosie was the prime factor in getting Possum out of there." 8 Hansell's difficulties  with other commanders  in the Marianas had indeed done him no good, but this alone was not the reason . 8 Montgomery,  Green Interview. 9 Hansell, green Interview, January 2, 1970 ; Personal Interview  with Lauris Norstad  by Murray Green, July 15, 1969, Murray Green Collection,  USAFA .Hansell  believed  that Arnold  had been under pressure  from General Marshall or President  Roosevelt  to produce results . Norstad later recalled  how Arnold was embarrassed  about the delays in Hansell's  first bombing mission. In fact, Arnold had a rule never to tell the President  about a bombing  mission until it was completed. In the case of SAN ANTONIO I he had broken his own rule and was chagrined  at the delays . He was, as Norstad reported, "...embarrassed  and mad at everybody, everybody . He was angry as hell — with me — with Hansell -­ with anybody who had anything  to do with it."9 As we have seen, Hansell's  correspondence  with Arnold also disappointed  the "Boss.