by putting on speed and precision  acts at airport openings  and air shows , and represented  the Air Corps at the National Air Races at Cleveland, Ohio . The Press touted them as "dare-devils who laugh at death, " "exhibitionists  par excellence"  who "held crowds spellbound " and flew with a "perfection  that seemed as if the three planes were activated  by one mind. 1,35 Hansell's  experiences  on the Trapeze were an outlet for his adventurous  spirit and his competitive  nature; on this team he could perform with the varsity -- he was no longer on the bench . The very fact that he flew with the team illustrates  his dogged determination  to accomplish  difficult  tasks because, even though he was an exemplary  pilot, he got air sick during the acrobatic  stunts. He often grew violently ill and actually vomited in the cockpit, but he said nothing about the problem and continued with all his duties . He wanted nothing  to stand between him and his chosen quest.35 36 35 Ibid, 42. 36 Haywood S. Hansell III, Griffith  Interview.There were several close calls, but no serious accidents. 59  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 71 --- Later, during a World War II interview,  Hansell reflected  on his service with the Trapeze, "It is sheer chance that we lived through it. If we had kept at it long enough, we certainly  would have been killed." 37 Once the Trapeze put on an air show near Chennault's  home in Louisiana at which hundreds  of people had gathered. Even though great care had been taken to prepare the field the ceiling of about 1,500 feet was far too low to perform. Not willing to disappoint the spectators,  the team decided to perform anyway. Once in the air, Chennault  signaled  for an Immelmann  maneuver  which would take the three airplanes  into the cloud cover to a near stall before hurling back toward earth. At the apex of the maneuver  nothing  was visible, not even each other's aircraft. Hansell, thinking  quickly, rolled and came down. The three we