was one ray of hope. We would supply that ray."30 29 Hansell, Air War Plan , 53. 30 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 53.The world situation in the summer of 1941 was truly desperate. The Soviet Union appeared  to be on the verge of collapse and without the distraction  of the Russian Front the British  and Commonwealth forces could have no reasonable  hope of victory. Only the intervention  of the United States could improve the situation. The Japanese  also threatened  to open yet another front in the Pacific. FDR had taken important steps to involve the United States short of war beginning  in 1937 and more recently  with the Neutrality  Act of 1939 which incorporated  the "cash and carry policy." Gradually  America became more and more involved. The Destroyers  for Bases Deal was followed  by the nation's first peace-time  draft and, in March 1941, with Lend-Lease. All the while the Roosevelt Administration  was tightening  the screws on Japan through ever-tougher  sanctions. 103  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 115 --- The United States had no intention of being caught without a strategic  plan . In early 1941 the Americans  and British  had a series of "conversations " which would establish the basic strategy  should there be an Anglo-American  Alliance . The final report, known as ABC - 1, was submitted  on March 27, 1941, by a U. S. staff committee  and representatives  of the British chiefs of staff . The basic premise of the report was that the industrial  and economic  might of the United States would be used to support the British and all nations which opposed the Axis . Germany was identified  as the main enemy and it was agreed that the resources  of the Allies would first be directed  against  Germany . By the end of April 1941 the War Plans Division  of the General Staff had completed  RAINBOW  No. 5, which was the culmination  of planning  which had begun in the autumn of 1939. RAINBOW No. 5 accepted the general concepts  of ABC - 1 in that, in t