nging about his overthrow. Strategic  air war offers a more direct and, in some ways, more simple means of overthrowing  an enemy . But, as Clausewitz pointed out, "Everything  is very simple in war, but the simplest  thing is difficult . 1,11 The First World War offered the first chance to use aircraft on a large scale for military  purposes  and the fears * 11 Carl von Clausewitz,  On War, ed. Anatol Rapoport, (New York: Penguin Books , 1982), 101, 390, 23. 14  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 26 --- and fantasies  were proven to be incorrect  or incomplete . No cities were set ablaze in the opening phases of the war. In fact it was only through much trial and error that the airplane finally took its place among the weapons of war. None of the pre-war  predictions  took into account  such factors as weather , navigation,  bombing accuracy, or the impact the bombs would have if and when they actually struck their intended  targets . Strategic  bombing  existed  as an interesting possibility  in the Great War, but was used only sparingly. Aircraft would be used as tactical instruments  in this conflict , first for reconnaissance  purposes, then for air superiority  roles, and finally for ground attack and interdiction.  Even though many historians  have branded the use of military  aircraft a failure in the First World War, historian  Lee Kennett holds another view. He maintains  that the air war itself failed to make a real difference  in the outcome of the war, but that reconnaissance  aircraft  directed the awesome firepower  of the artillery  and bombing aircraft added to the bombardments  which in turn helped perpetuate  the stalemate .12 12 Lee Kennett, The First Air War, 1914-1918 , (New York: The Free Press, 1991) , 42, 48, 216, 221.Strategic bombing in the First World War was first practiced  by Imperial Germany with the zeppelin raids on England which began in 1915. The raids caused fear and consternation  among the British, but certainly  did not k