tions,  and bombing standards  which carried the Mighty Eighth through her history. He had, after all, commanded  the forces that executed the first American daylight bombing raid on Germany, written two important  war plans, and established  the facilities  which enabled  the Eighth to expand . During his tour of duty in England  he received  the Air Medal for completing five combat missions, the Distinguished  Flying Cross for his leadership  on the March 8, 1943 mission  to Rennes , and the Silver Star Medal for his role on January 3, 1943 raid on St. Nazaire. Yet, in spite of his successes, he was disappointed  by the dispersal  of bomber forces to Africa, the lack of reinforcements  or replacements , the altering  of the strategic  target list, and the acceptance of the necessity  of an invasion of the Continent . By any 193  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 205 --- measurement , however , he had done his job well. In a critique of the effectiveness  of the Eighth Air Force during this critical  period, Craven and Cate point out that: "At the end of May, the Eighth Air Force could look back over the record of the past five months with a certain degree of pride." 117 Hansell had, to a very large degree, made that pride possible and had, to the best of his ability, preserved the principles of daylight,  precision  bombing which he had helped formulate at ACTS. 117 Ibid, 346. 194  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 206 --- CHAPTER V THE GLOBAL BOMBER FORCE Even before Hansell officially  left the 1st Bombardment Wing, a trans-Atlantic  struggle  broke out between Arnold and Baker over who was to retain Hansell 's services . Air Chief Marshal Sir Trafford  Leigh-Mallory  had been named commander  of the Allied Expeditionary  Air Forces in preparation  for the invasion  of France and Baker believed  that Hansell  would be an ideal deputy. Arnold was engaged in his own struggle in Washington  and needed competent staff officers . Haywood Hansell was the m