he First World War was first practiced  by Imperial Germany with the zeppelin raids on England which began in 1915. The raids caused fear and consternation  among the British, but certainly  did not knock 15  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 27 --- Great Britain out of the war. The second phase of German strategic  bombing was begun in May 1917 and lasted until May 1918. This phase utilized  what the aviation writer R. P. Hearne called "the principle  of psychological  influence"  and saw the introduction  of the new twin-engine  Gotha bombers and the multi-engine  Riesenflugzeug  or R-plane. The mission of these new aircraft  was to "disrupt industry  and communi ­ cations, destroy supply dumps and hinder cross-Channel traffic, " but the bomber crews were told that their ultimate goal was to "make war on the morale of the English people." Their orders were simply to "raid targets of military importance  in Britain" and even though they carried  a smaller bomb load than the zeppelins,  they caused "panicky"  scenes in London and actually took more British lives than had the zeppelins .13 13 Kennett, Strategic  Bombing , 22-26.As many as a third of a million Londoners  were forced from their homes as a result of the bombing. This dislocation caused absenteeism  at war factories to increase and war production  to decrease. The press was blamed by the war cabinet for fanning the fires of panic by reporting the distressing  scenes in London, but the effects of the bombing were real. In the final tally the Germans had dropped less than 300 tons of bombs on England, killing fourteen  hundred people and wounding forty-eight  hundred more. The material destruction  of the raids cost the British about half of one 16  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 28 --- day's cost of the war in France . Since the losses suffered  by the British in all the raids by the Germans was the equal of only a light attack along the Western Front, the real significance  of the German b