m. One day early in the operation Rosenblatt  appeared at Hansell's headquarters  and requested  that the general accompany  him to the dock. When they arrived  Hansell  discovered  that he was in command of a small fleet of supply ships, one of which was unloading. Rosenblatt  had used his connections  to acquire  six supply ships in the name of the Twentieth  Air Force. When the Navy realized what was happening, they commandeered  the 246  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 258 --- vessels .24 24 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 162, 163 ; LeMay and Yenne , Superfortress , 98 ; Personal  Interview  with Haywood  Hansell by Bill Yenne, n.d. , provided  to the author by Bill Yenne . 25 Craven and Cate, V, 544.Obviously Rosenblatt's  fleet was not going to solve Hansell's  supply problems . By early November Hansell took measures to adapt the supply and maintenance  procedures  to meet existing  conditions . He centralized  the activities  of supply and maintenance  under his Chief of Staff for Supply and Maintenance , Colonel  Clarence  Irvine . Irvine's  efforts served to keep the command operating  and the B-29s flying, even though most important aircraft parts had to be flown in directly  from Sacramento  over thousands  of miles of ocean . Unlike the Eighth Air Force in England  during its early days , the XXI Bomber Command was operating on a very long and uncertain  shoestring. 25 When the B-17 arrived in Europe it had already gone through  a number of versions  and most of the imperfections  had been corrected. The B-29 was a much more complicated  aircraft and, since it was fresh off the assembly  line (not to mention the drawing  board) , its technical  problems  abounded . Hansell was very much involved  in making the Superfortress  ready to fly in combat . He was concerned  over the rate of engine failures, the computer that assisted the gunners with the defensive  armament , and with the rate of aborts which would be a problem  once the bombing  campaig