hey would have to meet them head on. With out a sufficient early warning  system this was all but impossible;  radar was as yet unknown . Even if by chance the pursuit aircraft  overtook the bombers , it was believed  that the defensive  armament of the bombers could easily deal with the attacking  aircraft . It 70  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 82 --- was also believed that the bombers could fly well above enemy antiaircraft  fire thus making the defense of the bomber virtually  assured. When the Sperry and Norden bombsights  were introduced in 1933 the apparent reality of high-level, precision  bombing  was complete . Pursuit  aircraft  simply could not prevail against such bombers  as the B-17.59 59 Finney, 33-35. 60 Ibid, 42, 72, 73.When Hansell became a student at ACTS in 1934 only about a quarter of the students admitted  were below the rank of captain  and those who were accepted  had to have an efficiency rating of not less than "excellent. ” This was an important career boost for 1st Lieutenant  Hansell . Of the fifty-nine graduates  in Hansell's  class, six would later play a part in his professional  and personal life . These fellow students included  Muir Fairchild,  Byron Gates, Barney Giles, Laurence Kuter, Hoyt Vandenberg , and Reginald  Vance, Hansell's  brother ­ in-law. For some officers  who attended  ACTS the year of duty at the school was a time of reflection  and rest . This was not the case for Hansell because the atmosphere  at the school in 1934-35 was super charged  with debate over the future of air power in general and the Air Corps in particular .60 The faculty at ACTS had a profound  impact upon Hansell. Having just left the Three Men on a Flying Trapeeze  team it is surprising  that he did not become a protege of Chennault,  but rather he was won over by the bombardment  advocates . The year 71  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 83 --- as a student  at ACTS transformed  Hansell from "Pursuit Possum" into a true advocate