on't let Mother worry about you. You know how wrapped up she is in you and your career.  "10 10 Colonel  Haywood  S. Hansell, Sr. , to Haywood  S. Hansell, Jr., May 29, 1918, from the Hansell Family's private collection .Sewanee  Military  Academy  did indeed bring out the best in young Haywood. Whether he improved  because of his father's admonishments , his own maturity, or a combination  of the two is difficult  to say, but his academics  troubles  were behind him. Sewanee gave young Haywood the nickname "Possum" and gave him a sense of identity  which was his own. He was still high spirited and once earned a stint at "walking the triangle"  in the snow for some infraction  of the rules . The 45  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 57 --- punishment  almost turned into tragedy when Possum developed pneumonia . He was confined to his room for two weeks with only his textbooks  for company . The fortnight  of isolation not only improved his health but the illness-imposed  self discipline  improved  his grades. 11 11 Haywood  Hansell, III, Griffith  Interview;  Mrs. Haywood S. Hansell,  Jr. , Griffith  Interview;  Dennett  Hansell, Griffith Interview. 12 Ibid ; " Exalted Sense of Ethics,  " an unidentified article from the Hansell Family's  private collection. 13 Sydney Shalett, "This Possum is Jap Poison, " The Saturday  Evening Post , November  25, 1944, 17.Possum found a new home at Sewanee . His favorite  teacher was his English instructor,  Stuart McLean . Mr. McLean made, as Hansell later put it, "devoted Browning scholars out of us," as well as prompting  the boys to read popular magazines with enthusiasm. The cadet honor system  at Sewanee was based on the assumption  that a "cadet's word is as good as his bond, " which meant that a cadet's word was never questioned. If any cadet were found not to have told the truth, he would have been dismissed  by the cadets themselves .12 13 By his senior year in 1920, Possum had been elevated  to captain of cadets .