lot to prepare for and pioneer both the air offensive  against Germany and that against Japan. I should like a job now which will afford me the time and opportunity  to rehabilitate  myself . " Hansell's request was to command a training wing in the Southwestern  United States .21 21 Hansell to Arnold, January 8, 1945, Hansell Papers (Microfilm  Edition) , AFHRC, Maxwell AFB.On January 14, 1945, Hansell defended  his actions as XXI Bomber Command commander  in a ten-page  letter to Arnold. He explained  in detail the problems  he faced in the Marianas . He told Arnold of the trials and tribulations  of converting  the 73rd Bomb Wing from night , radar bombing to daylight, 295  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 307 --- precision bombing . O'Donnell had been loyal enough, in Hansell's  opinion, but the group commanders  had been more slow to swing "into line." He had considered  relieving  some of them and sending  them back to the States for reassignment  with the 315th Wing, which would be trained in night, radar operations.  Hansell's  second problem  was the deplorable  lack of bombing accuracy, but he indicated  to Arnold that bombing accuracy  was "on its way to solution." He had insisted on more bombing  practice  and had instituted  the Lead Crew School. His third problem  was the "abortives"  for the B-29. Here he reminded Arnold that the B-29 was a new airplane and that there were incomplete  maintenance  facilities  and no supply depot. Only about three percent  of the requests  on the depot had been filled. Hansell also felt that he had made the "mistake  of driving the force too hard, " while attempting  to fly as many missions as possible. Finally Hansell wrote of his efforts to improve air/sea rescue, listing the many safeguards  he had put in place to save downed B-29 crews. In light of these difficulties,  Hansell felt that he had not done badly at all.22 22 Hansell to Arnold, January 14, 1945, Record Group 18, File 201, National  Archives.Hanse