e,  however , came from his father . Possum decided  that he would play football  with the nationally  famous 48  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 60 --- Georgia Tech team. At around 125 pounds he could not hope to play in many games, yet he stuck with it for four years, playing  briefly  only in a few games and receiving  recognition from the coach only once when Possum dislocated  his shoulder during a practice session. In addition to football, Possum also took up boxing but he was again too small to achieve any success. He did, however, display  perseverance  in the face of great odds and a love of competitive  sports . He was seldom able to joust with windmills  from the bench at Georgia Tech, but he graduated  in 1924 with a solid engineering  degree. Once again he had an opportunity  at a military  career when he was offered an Army commission,  but his decision to be a civilian  engineer  was firm.17 17 Ibid.Even though the twenties  have been remembered  as a time of economic  expansion,  Haywood  Hansell found it impossible  to secure a position  as an engineer. He had dreams of building bridges and dams in South America but was soon forced to compromise.  Colonel  Hansell  was stationed  at the Presidio  and his son soon joined him and Mrs. Hansell in San Francisco looking for employment. The only work Possum could find was with the Steel Tank and Pipe Company  of Berkeley,  California, as a boilermaker's  assistant. He worked ten hours a day at a wage of $2.60 per day and he had to purchase  his own tools. He used his time to study to become a journeyman  boilermaker and worked part time as a sparring  partner for professional 49  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 61 --- boxers . After a year of study he was finally qualified  to become a journeyman  and was honored by an invitation  to the boilermakers'  ball . His only problem  was that he did not know what to wear, so he decided it was better to be overdressed and rented a tuxedo for the o