ven and Cate, V, 107; LeMay and Yenne, 184. es Hansell to Wolfe, August 4, 1944, Record Group 18, 373.2, National  Archives;  Craven and Cate, V, 111-113.On August 4, XX Bomber Command asked permission  to make a second attack on the Imperial  Iron and Steel Works at Yawata — this time using daylight,  precision bombing . Hansell was delighted  with the change of heart, having sent Wolfe a cable the same day reminding  him that attacks on shipping, storage facilities , and rail facilities in China were tactical missions reserved for the Fourteenth  Air Force. Hansell insisted  on strategic  attacks on Palembang , Nagasaki , Yawata, and Pensihu. Wolfe responded  by launching  a simultaneous double strike on Nagasaki  and Palembang  on August 10. Thirty- three B-29s were detailed  for the night attack on Nagasaki , but only twenty-four  succeed in dropping their payloads of incendiaries  and fragmentation  bombs . The attack on Palembang,  in spite of Washington's  insistence  on a daylight, precision  attack in formation , was conducted  in the early evening by thirty-one  bombers flying individually.  Much to Wolfe's delight not a plane was scratched  in combat, although high casualties  had been expected. However , bomb damage to Japanese  targets also was slight .66 232  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 244 --- On August 20, 1944, the XX Bomber Command launched  his second attack on Yawata. Seventy-five  B-29s attacked  in this daylight  attack. Sixty-one  planes dropped  ninety-six  tons of high explosives  over the target. One B-29 was brought  down by flak, but enemy fighter  opposition  was termed "moderate,  " even though two bombers were downed by ramming. The American gunners  claimed  seventeen  kills. That night ten additional  B- 29s followed up with a night attack. Bomb damage was not serious, but Wolfe showed that, in the face of tremendous logistical  problems, he could carry out the kind of mission Hansell wanted. But by this time it was too l