he described  his quarters as "the most uncomfortable  living accommodation  in England." Now he was living in a tent, dressed in shorts because of the heat, and eating food that probably  made him homesick  even for English cooking. When a group of congressmen  arrived on Saipan early in the operation,  Hansell entertained  them with the best he had. He housed them in his tent and then took them through the chow line and instructed  them in how to wash their own eating utensils. When they returned  to Washington they wrote an unfavorable  report of Hansell's  command, but it was probably  the living conditions  they objected  to most.19 19 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 185, 187, 195.When the first American  heavy bomber groups had arrived in England, fully-equipped  Royal Air Force bases were, in many cases, turned over to the fledgling  bomber groups. There was no such luxury in the Marianas. Engineers  had begun work soon after Saipan was secured from the Japanese, but were beset with tropical  rains all through July and August, making roads and coral pits virtually  impassable. So many trucks broke 244  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 256 --- down that men had to be diverted  from the construction  to make passable  roads . Enemy air raids and unexpectedly  hard coral formations  had slowed the work down considerably.  Isley Field was not even completed  on October 12 when Hansell arrived in the first B-29. Major General Sanderford  Jarman had four battalions  of aviation engineers  working around the clock. Many of them even slept under their trucks. 20 20 Craven and Cate, V, 517; Morrison,  Point of No Return , 158. 21 Craven and Cate, V, 515, 517; Hansell, Japan , 34; Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 174.Only one runway could be used and only 5,000 feet of the 7,000 feet runway were actually  paved. The other runway could not be used at all. Only forty hardstands  were ready, thus causing the B-29s to double park — a tempting target for Japanese  bombers .