gation  and bombing  accuracy. Yet Hansell's  evaluation  of his wing's performance  set the tone for his first weeks in 165  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 177 --- command, "I was shocked at the performance  of the Wing, 1,56 he later recalled. The bombing was erratic and, in spite of many brave deeds, he knew, as DeWitt Copp observed, "that heroism  was not enough to bring destruction  to the submarine pens.1,57 On January  4, 1943, Hansell called a meeting  of his group commanders. This meeting set the standard  for meetings  which were conducted  after each bomber mission. Hansell called the group commanders'  meetings "trial[s] by fire" and added, "I dreaded them, as I am sure all the others did also, because the essential  ingredient  of our effort to learn by experience -- and learn quickly -- was absolute  honesty. The mistakes had to be acknowledged. It was a soul-searing  ordeal." 56 57 58 The meetings  were open to criticism  and recommendation  and any subject was open to discussion,  except that of abandoning daylight  bombing of selected targets. The meeting included group commanders,  group leaders, group navigators,  group gunnery  officers,  the lead bombardier,  the operations  officer, and group staffs. Eventually,  the meeting  would be limited  to Hansell and his group commanders. They would discuss what mistakes they had made and how they could learn from the 56 Hansell, "Notes of a Bomber Commander,"  1. 57 Copp, Forged in Fire , 332. 58 Hansell, Air Plan , 13 9. 166  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 178 --- experience .59 Hansell later confessed, "Only too often it was glaringly  apparent  that I had not used the best judgment and the costly results born of those errors in the actual mission itself could be traced all too easily to my mistakes." 60 This readiness to accept personal 59 Hansell, "Notes of a Bomber Commander, " 5; Hansell, Air Plan , 141. 60 Hansell, Air Plan , 140. 61 Copp, Forged in Fire , 332; Hansell, Air Pla