the greatest strain of all, the morale of the combat crews . . . The morning after each mission saw the breakfast table growing smaller. By March the crews of the initial groups were less that half strength. Each mission was costing between five and six percent in combat casualties,  and missions were running at the rate of five missions  per month.84 Even though Hansell did not have the minimum  of three hundred bombers considered necessary to carry out strategic operations,  progress was made in March . The Operations Research  Section  of the Eighth Air Force endorsed  the "bombing on the leader" method already  employed  by the 1st Wing . Also 178  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 190 --- in March the Eighth also began to employ automatic flight control equipment and bombardiers  reported much improved accuracy. 85 85 Craven and Cate, II, 309-310, 342-343. 86 Craven and Cate , II, 318, 325, 326 ; Freeman, 27 ; Mission Reports for 4, 6, 8 March 1943.The 1st Wing flew nine missions in March . On March 4 they struck Hamm, the first Eighth Air Force objective  in the Rhur. One group returned without dropping its bombs, but three struck the target with unusual accuracy  against light opposition. Four B-17s were lost in that action. On March 6 Hansell's  bombers struck Lorient and reported  direct hits on railway  targets. On March 8 Hansell flew in a B-17 piloted  by First Lieutenant  John Carroll on a mission  to bomb the railway yards at Rennes . With the loss of only one B-17 the 1st Wing cut the marshalling  yards at both ends and caused a complete stand-still  for three or four days. Normal traffic could not be resumed in the yards for an additional  two weeks.86 A newspaper reporter , Charles F. Danver , was present when Hansell  returned  from the mission  and reported  that a corporal offered the general a sandwich: "General Hansell helped himself to one of the brown triangles and inspected its contents . 'Why do they cut this stuff so thin? ' he grumb