s was a time of unusually  high tension  between  Arnold and his staff . Arnold met every morning  at 7:30 with Generals White, Kuter , and Hansell in his inner office . Armed with 223  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 235 --- top-secret  dispatches  to which his staff was not privy, Arnold would demand to know what they were doing about a given situation  and castigate them with, what Hansell later called, "withering  comments about our competence ." "General Arnold enjoyed this game, but it was pretty rough business to be on the receiving end. 1,52 In spite of this "game" Arnold certainly  had every confidence  that the Twentieth  Air Force was in good hands . Hansell conducted  the first staff meeting of the Twentieth  Air Force on April 12, 1944, in which he explained  the peculiar nature of the new organization  and introduced  the administrative  procedures  to be followed. There was much to be done.52 53 52 Ibid, 181. 53 Genesis , 108 .Hansell employed a host of trouble shooters on the Twentieth  Air Force staff. Major General Kuter served as A-5 (plans) by virtue of the fact that this was also his function on Arnold's  staff . Colonel Cecil Combs served as A-3 (combat operations) and Colonel Guido Perera served as the intelligence  representative  from the Committee  of Operations Analysts. Brigadier  General Harold McClelland  served as communications  officer . Arnold ordered  McClelland  to report to his office and instructed  him to "create a communications net to include  Washington,  Hawaii, the Marianas  (which had not been captured) , Calcutta, and Chengto , China , with provision for extension  to somewhere  in the Aleutian  chain and somewhere 224  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 236 --- in the Philippines  (when they were captured) . He wanted TOP SECRET Security; with instantaneous  coding and read-out by teleprinters . He wanted the net in operation  twenty-four hours a day." Hansell thought that this was impossible,  but McClella