lls, Massachusetts.  Hansell retired from the United States Army Air Forces in 1946 at the rank of brigadier  general after nineteen  years of service. His hearing had suffered  since his days as a stunt flyer and since he was taken off flying status, he used the disability to take early retirement .54 54 Hansell, Punyear Interview,  February  25, 1979.After leaving the Pacific Hansell received  letters from many people . On February 1, 1945, General Arnold wrote a letter of encouragement  to Hansell . Generals  Kuter and Ralph Cousins, Commander  of the Western Flying Training Command, congratulated  Hansell on his performance  as commander  of the 38th Training Wing. Upon his retirement,  he received a personal  note of congratulations  from General Spaatz . But the most revealing  letter came from a Sergeant  Ben Sunday of the Headquarters  Squadron  of the Twentieth  Air Force on Guam. The sergeant sent birthday greetings to the general and added, "Sir, off-the-record  the enlisted men who were at Saipan always speak most highly of you and asked me to convey their very best wishes to you...I would like to take the liberty to ask a personal  favor . Sir, should you have an extra photo of yourself -- I would be most appreciative  if you would autograph  it and forward to me as a reminder  of the privilege of working  with you and for you." If an enlisted  man's view 314  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 326 --- of a general is any measure of his greatness,  Possum Hansell had achieved  that. As Colonel Robert Morgan observed, "Above all, Hansell was a gentleman.  1,55 Immediately  after his retirement  Hansell and Hal George went into business, operating Peruvian Air Lines . The Hansells moved to Lima, Peru, where Possum served as vice­ president  of the airline . In 1949 the Peruvian government nationalized  the airline and the Hansells  were flown back to Savanna , Georgia, by the Peruvians  in the back of a surplus C- 47 transport . He then secured  a po