Again , (New York: Bantam Books , 1991), 277.The late summer of 1942 was indeed a busy one for Hansell and the other staff officers at ETOUSA . The build-up of United States forces in England  and the preliminary  plans for an early invasion  of the continent  (the BOLERO , SLEDGEHAMMER , and ROUNDUP operations)  were in the planning  stages at this time, as were Operation  SICKLE, the build-up  of the Eighth Air Force, and Operation  TORCH, the invasion of North Africa. This flurry of activity  brought men of differing  personality and opinion  together  and there were inevitably  clashes  between them. Hansell was present on August 7, 1942, when Generals Patton and Doolittle  arrived  at ETOUSA Headquarters  to discuss TORCH . Doolittle  got off on the wrong foot by lecturing Eisenhower  on the necessity of securing, preparing, and supplying  air bases in North Africa . Doolittle  recalled, " From the first moment I sensed that Ike had taken an immediate  dislike to me. Once again, I had the uncomfortable feeling of being an illegitimate  offspring at a family reunion." 4 The personality  clash between Eisenhower  and 140  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 152 --- Doolittle  had little impact on Hansell, but the diversion  of strategic  air resources  from England  to Africa certainly  did.5 Hansell soon learned  that the strategic  bomber force was being diverted  from its intended  strategic  purpose  by a number of "overriding " concerns . First , by August 1942 the Germans had a U-boat fleet of 240 operational  craft and the safety of the convoys sailing to England and those which would be sailing to North Africa was certainly  in doubt . The U-boat factories  and bases had to be bombed, thus diverting  the heavy bombers from the original target lists . To make matters worse , fifteen  combat groups destined  for England  were sent to the Pacific. In addition  to these problems, the Eighth Air Force had to prepare the Twelfth  Air Force for Operation  TO