perhaps  more importantly  it was not thought possible  to design an escort fighter which would have the range to cover B-17s and B-24s over Germany . The Eighth Air Force had only completed  six missions prior to writing AWPD-42 and their had been no Schweinfurts  to illustrate  the defensive  power of the Luftwaffe. 21 U-boat facilities  replaced  electric  power as the number two target system. U-boat attacks on Atlantic convoys had created a crisis in the Allied camp and deep concern over future operations , particularly  TORCH . Thus the expedients  of war had altered Hansell's target list, but politics also played a part . Hansell later expressed  his reason for placing submarines  so high on the target list : " It [the placing of submarines  as the number two target system] also recognized the concern, interest, and power of the naval leaders whose authority  would influence  adoption  of the plan by the Joint 148  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 160 --- Chiefs if and when it was submitted  to them. 1,22 Hansell considered  the targeting of submarines a deviation from strategic  bombing  doctrine,  but he was forced by circumstances to accept this compromise. Transportation  targets remained number three on the target list, but electric  power had fallen to fourth place. Hansell had revised the details of the plan to bomb German power plants . He had reduced the total number of electric targets from 50 to 37 because of more complete  intelligence. The planners  had also added switching  stations,  whereas  before they had only included  generating  stations. They also added turbine  houses as sub-targets  because their replacement  would require  eighteen  months to two years. Hansell  maintained  that electric targets were of utmost importance  since no industry could function  without it and he undoubtedly  hoped to return electricity  to a place of prominence  on the target list as soon as the U-boat menace subsided. Target system five was petroleu