ashington. She later referred  to the purchase  as, "my one extravagance ." Just before Pos left for England he asked her where she got them because  he wanted to take some to his English  driver . In anger , she threw the jewelry at him and to her surprise, he took them. At the time she has suspicious  that he was in love with his driver , but she later realized that this was a 198  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 210 --- harmless  good deed offered by a hopeless  romantic .8 8 Mrs. Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., Griffith  Interview. 9 Grace Peterson  Hayes , The History of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in World War II : The War Against Japan , (Annapo1is: Naval Institute  Press , 1982), 321.Hansell returned  to Washington  to assist Arnold and his staff in preparation  for the QUADRANT  conference  at Quebec . It is probable  that he had significant  influence  on a document entitled  CCS 323, "The Air Plan for the Defeat of Japan.  " The plan was based on the assumption  that Germany would be defeated  by the fall of 1944. China and a number of Pacific islands  were considered  as bases . Operations  were to begin in October 1944 and culminate in the destruction  of Japanese strategic  objectives  by April 1945. The plan was hastily drafted in order to assure that the role of the B-29 was not neglected  at Quebec .9 News of the loss of sixty bombers in the Schweinfurt- Regensburg  raid arrived just two days before the Quebec conference . This unfortunate  turn of events placed Hansell in a familiar role : advocate of daylight, precision  bombing . Since he was a wing commander  fresh from the battle Arnold saw him as an invaluable  asset to have in the potentially  hostile environment  of Quebec . As he had expected, Arnold was criticized  by the British for his persistence  in daylight bombing . His greatest fear, however , was in losing the confidence  of President  Roosevelt . In a August 24, 1943, letter to Baker, Hansell  described  how he "had the opportunity