ving come very close to death, Hansell would always know what it meant to send young men in B-17s over German-occupied  Europe .71 172  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 184 --- Seventy-two  B-17s from the 1st Bomb Wing had attacked Lille with the loss of only one aircraft . The bombing  results were good, with the official report stating, "very severe damage was inflicted. 1,72 The raid was also a step forward for the new tactics. Hansell sent LeMay's 305th Group a copy of his memorandum  concerning  the raid, in which he praised  the crews for improved  air discipline  and better formation  flying. The results of the raid were very encouraging,  but there were many more to follow and many more lessons to learn.72 73 72 Mission Report for 13 January 1943 . 73 Morrison, The Incredible  305th , 33.On January 18, 1943, General Baker received  orders from General Arnold to report to Casablanca,  Morocco at once. The Casablanca  Conference  had been underway  since January 14 and Prime Minister  Churchill had convinced  President  Roosevelt  to commit the Eighth Air Force to night bombing . Baker arrived on the 19th and lost no time in making his case before Churchill . His arguments  included the fact that the Eighth Air Force loss rate was lower than that of the RAF Bomber Command; the Eighth was not trained for night operations;  day bombers  could accomplish  missions  the night bombers  could not; day accuracy was five times greater than night  ; and day bombing would destroy German fighters . Churchill  countered with a number of questions  : Why had there been so many aborts; why so few missions;  why were the AAF and the RAF not given the same directive and the same tactics; and (most 173  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 185 --- importantly)  why had American bombers not bombed Germany? Baker explained  that inexperience,  the TORCH diversions,  poor weather, and the concentration  on U-boat targets had all contributed,  but he promised that target