tence  in daylight bombing . His greatest fear, however , was in losing the confidence  of President  Roosevelt . In a August 24, 1943, letter to Baker, Hansell  described  how he "had the opportunity 199  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 211 --- to contribute  to the bomber offensive"  from Quebec  : General Arnold took me up to the Citadel to see the President  last week. I had about fifteen minutes uninterrupted opportunity  to explain to him what we had done, how we were doing it, and what we expected  for the future. General Arnold asked me in the presence of the President whether I thought we could win the war by bombing alone. I replied that I felt it was necessary  to have ground forces available to administer  the devastated  areas and they might encounter some opposition in establishing  themselves  in Europe even after interior Germany had begun to crumble. He seemed to accept this idea and made no comment . I made an unsuccessful  effort to have a message of congratulation  sent by the President,  himself, to the 8th Air Force on the Regensburg-Schweinfurt  operation. I did describe its importance  to the President. However, I do not think the message will be sent since it seems to establish  a new precedent. 10 10 Hansell to Baker, July 24, 1943, COSSAC File, AFHRC, Maxwell AFB. 11 James McGregor Burns, Roosevelt: The Soldier of Freedom , (New York: Harcourt  Brace Jovanovich,  1970), 392-393; Craven and Cate, II, 13.Since the decision  to invade northwestern  Europe was made at the Quebec Conference,  Hansell's  confidence  in the ability  of strategic  bombing  to win the war alone seems to have fallen on deaf ears. President  Roosevelt's  refusal to send the message of congratulations  might indicate that American strategic bombing operations  were to some degree out of favor. 11 Hansell  was aware that Baker was concerned  about the fate 200  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 212 --- of American  strategic  bombing and continued  in his