y  career he would achieve a well-earned  reputation  as a technological  expert who was well respected  by his fellow officers . On the other hand, his more literary side was misunderstood  by his compatriots . He was considered  "nervous " 39  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 51 --- and " high strung  " by General Ira Baker and was later described  by General  Barney Giles as a "kind of brilliant-type fellow" given to sentimentality. In short, he was fundamentally  different  from the other young general officers in the Army Air Forces during World War II. As one historian observed, he was set apart from the others by his Southern birth and Army upbringing,  yet, in addition  to these obvious differences,  it was his temperament  more than any other factor which made him unique .2 2 Personal Interview  by the author with Colonel Haywood S. Hansell III, February  16, 1992, DeWitt S. Copp, Forged in Fire: Strategy  and Decisions  in the Airwar Over Europe 1940­ 1945 , (New York: Doubleday  and Company, 1982), 403; Interview with Barney Giles, File K 239.0512,  AFHRC, Maxwell AFB. 3 Haywood S. Hansell III, Griffith Interview;  Personal Interview  by the author with Mrs. Haywood S. Hansell, Jr. and Dennett Hansell, March 21, 1992.Hansell's  military  heritage  began with John Hansell, who served in the American  Revolution.  William  Andrew Hansell  had been a major in the War of 1812. Andrew Jackson Hansell was a major general in the Confederate  States Army who served in the adjutant's  office and was briefly in charge of Atlanta's defenses. As Southern  gentlemen  and military  officers, they set the standards  which guided the Hansells  in their devotion to duty, to country, and their quest for family honor. 3 Haywood  Shepard  Hansell Sr. was a physician  in the United States Army and was a Georgian  who was devoutly  Southern. The evening meal was an occasion  at the Hansell household  which saw Colonel Hansell arrive at the head of the table in a white 4