fluence  of Air Power On The Roosevelt  Administration,  1933­ 1941 , (College Station, Texas  : Texas A&M University  Press, 1991), 125-137  . 92  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 104 --- been on a war basis . The Hansells moved into a townhouse located at 4457 Greenwich  Parkway, just west of the Georgetown  University campus . This picturesque  home was a far cry from the cramped facilities  at Levenworth . Hansell's  new assignment  was in the Munitions  Building  located  between  the Washington  Monument  and the Lincoln Memorial  at the present location  of Constitution Gardens . Hal George was working there for Major General Hap Arnold, as was Lieutenant  Colonel Ira Baker . At first Hansell's  function  was public relations,  but soon he was given a far more important  assignment  as Baker's assistant. Baker was executive  to the Chief of the Air Corps , which placed Hansell very close to the center of power in the Air Corps . Baker had earned the trust of General Arnold and, as Hansell later put it, "Ira...was living literally  hand in glove with Arnold.  1,9 Next in line was Colonel Carl " Tooey  " Spaatz , Arnold's  operations  officer. Baker said of the Arnold-Spaatz relationship  that whereas Lee had a number of lieutenants, Arnold had only one -- Spaatz . General  Henry "Hap" Arnold had been given the nickname "Happy" because he apparently  had a permanent  smile on his face . This "smile" was misleading, because  Arnold was a hard-driving  leader who expected  nothing less that perfection  from his staff . As Baker later stated, * * 8 Craven and Cate, I, 106. 9 Personal Interview  by Murray  Green with Major General Haywood S. Hansell , Jr. , January 2, 1970, USAFA, Colorado Springs , Colorado . 93  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 105 --- "He'd have fired his own mother if she didn't produce ."10 Washington  (and indeed the nation) was dominated  by one figure during these years , Franklin D. Roosevelt . Hansell gradually  became an ad