volved  in directing  the American  bombing campaign  expressed some "views on the moral issue, " that "moral considerations almost invariably  bowed to what people described  as military necessity.  . . . 1,46 Daylight,  precision  bombing  would eventually  be abandoned by the United States Army Air Forces because of the dictates of existing technology,  the demands of combat , and the fact that the "passions  " of war swept away any moral concerns involving  strategic  bombing . The fire raids of Tokyo and other Japanese  cities in the spring and summer of 1945 were the incarnation  of the Douhetian  vision. This is not to say that the policy makers and commanders  were simply swept up in events and had no voice in the matter . As Sherry has noted, the distances  involved, the lack of measurable  criteria, and the remoteness  of the consequences  combined  with the political realities  of the day served to isolate the commanders  from the * * 45 Sherry, Rise , 176. , 46 Schaffer,  Wings , xii. 33  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 45 --- realities  of the bombing campaigns  and fostered pragmatism rather than ideology. Only about two dozen general officers were chiefly responsible  for the creation  of the American  air war strategy during World War II. They came from a variety  of backgrounds and from all across America, yet they shared common characteristics . They were young , with an average age of 42 at the time of Pearl Harbor, and they were adventurous  men who had to be mentally  alert and physically  adept . Haywood S. Hansell, Jr. shared all these characteristics,  although he differed  in three respects  : he was a Southerner ; he was from an Army family; and, most importantly,  he was philosophically inclined. Most of his fellow general officers  in the Army Air Forces were pragmatists , but Hansell clearly exhibited  the temperament  and will to chart a particular  course of action and then throw himself into the task of carrying  it out. The c