uld be so only in an ancillary  way -- not in the direct targeting of civilians  for military  purposes. The Europeans  took a much more martial view of the uses of the airplane. To them preparedness  was an important prerequisite  to peace or war and they viewed any weapon which could either deter aggression  or win a quick decisive  victory with favor. In 1911 the Italians  sent nine airplanes  and two dirigibles  to Libya for service in their war against the Turks. The aircraft  participated  in reconnaissance  and crude bombing  missions,  but without decisive  effect. Aircraft  also played a minor role in the Balkan Wars of 1912-1913. Even though these early efforts  proved somewhat  less effective  than expected  the major European  powers took notice. In 1910 the combined air strength of Germany, Austria-Hungary,  France, Russia, and Great Britain was around 50 airplanes. By 1914 * 8 Sherry, Rise , 4. 12  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 24 --- their combined  air fleets had reached the 700 mark. 9 9 Ibid, 5; Kennett, Strategic  Bombing , 12-16. 10 Sherry, Rise , 6; Kennett, Strategic  Bombing , 17.The European  vision of air war was revealed  in 1913 by French aviator Pol Timonier  in his book, How We Are Going to Torpedo Berlin with Our Squadron  of Airplanes  as Soon as the War Begins . In this scenario  the Germans would attack Paris with upwards of 132,000 pounds of explosives  which would decimate  the population  "amidst indescribable  horrors" after which the French would retaliate  with a massive  attack against Berlin unleashing  1,360 "torpedoes " thus bringing  the war to a successful  and rapid conclusion.  The Europeans  not only saw fit to prepare air fleets, some were willing (in theory at least) to unleash  that power on civilians  in order to win wars in the shortest, most decisive manner. As the historian Michael Sherry concluded, in Europe "War itself was not unthinkable,  only endless and meaningless  war." 10 In the popular imagin