of the General Staff had completed  RAINBOW  No. 5, which was the culmination  of planning  which had begun in the autumn of 1939. RAINBOW No. 5 accepted the general concepts  of ABC - 1 in that, in the event of war, the United States and her British allies would open an offensive  in the Atlantic while maintaining  a strategic  defense against the Japanese  in the Pacific .31 31 Craven and Cate, 1, 136-141.On July 9, 1941, President  Roosevelt  sent a letter to the Secretaries  of War and the Navy requesting  an estimate of over-all production  requirements  needed to defeat Germany , Italy, and Japan . He wanted only an estimate of desired munitions  production  and the mechanical  equipment  which would be required for victory. He went on to write, "I am not 104  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 116 --- suggesting  a detailed  report but one that, while general in scope, would cover the most critical items in our defense...." 32 What he got, however, was one of the most important  military documents to be produced by the United States in World War II.33 32 president Roosevelt  to the Secretary  of the Navy, July 9, 1941, AWPD-1 , Tab A, File 145.82-1,  AFHRC , Maxwell AFB. 33 Craven and Cate, 1, 132. 34 Hansell, Air Plan , 65-67.The plan would have to include requirements  for the air forces, but it was at first unclear how the so-called  "Air Annex" to what became the Victory Program would be written. Lieutenant  Colonel C. L. Bissell, an air officer assigned  to the War Plans Division sought only informal assistance  from the air staff. Lieutenant  Colonel Harold George had strong objections  to this because his own Air War Plans Division  had been in existence  for nearly three weeks and he felt that his staff should prepare the "Air Annex." Brigadier General Leonard Gerow, head of the War Plans Division, met with General Arnold to discuss the plan, at which time Arnold suggested  that his own Air War Plans Division  be given the task to free up the War