ience . He remembered  all too painfully  his own unsuccessful  efforts to get a command  at the front during World War I. He sent Kuter and Hansell to Europe , but he did so with the understanding  that they would return to Washington  within the year. Colonel Pinky Craig recommended  Hansell for the job as air planner for Eisenhower, the new commander of the European Theater of Operations . Hansell and Eisenhower  were not strangers;  the two had worked closely together in Washington  while Hansell was setting up the Air Intelligence  Office. In July 1942 General Eisenhower had requested  that Hansell be transferred  to his headquarters in London and by August the details had been worked out. 1 1 Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., The Strategic  Air War Against japan , (Maxwell AFB: Office of Air Force History, 1980), v; Copp, Forged in Fire, 277; Letter from Eisenhower  to General Thomas Handy, July 7, 1942, Dwight D. Eisenhower,  The Papers of Dwight David Eisenhower:  The War Years , Alfred D. Chandler, ed. (Baltimore:  The Johns Hopkins Press, 1970), 1, 364.Eisenhower  requested  Hansell's  promotion  to brigadier general because he was aware that the British members of the U.S. - U.K. Air Planning  Committee  were of vice air marshal and air commodore  rank and he wanted the American  member to have at least equal status. When Hansell arrived  in London in 138  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 150 --- August, Brigadier  General Frank "Monk " Hunter, Commander  of the VIII Fighter Command, had the honor of being the first to pin a star on Hansell's  epaulet . Hansell assumed the dual roles of Air Planner for Eisenhower  and Deputy Theater Air Officer under General Spaatz . Spaatz wanted Hansell to make sure that Eisenhower's  views concerning  air planning  reflected his own. To make sure that he could use Hansell to mold Eisenhower's  development  of air strategy, Spaatz had Hansell live in his comfortable  house at Bushy Park in London as did Colonels  Lauris N