pan, but they failed to destroy  their targets. Mission after mission brought back disappointing  results, while Hansell had to contend with crews trained for night missions , poor supply lines, inadequate facilities, and Japanese attacks on his Marianas bases. In spite of these problems,  Arnold  wanted results and Hansell  did not seem to be delivering  them. Norstad had made no secret of his desire for Hansell to use incendiary  bombs to burn out Japanese cities. Hansell either ignored  Norstad's  suggestions  or grudgingly  carried  out half-hearted  high-altitude  incendiary  "tests" which proved less than successful. In light of LeMay's success in using incendiaries  in China, Norstad convinced  Arnold to dismiss 6  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 18 --- Hansell in favor of LeMay . In January 1945 Hansell was relieved  of command  and within two months Tokyo lay in ashes . Even though Hansell's  efforts had begun to achieve success , the Air Force had allowed  the existing  technology  and Arnold's desire for tangible results dictate a drastic change in American  strategic  bombing practice . Haywood Hansell was the champion of the concept of daylight, precision bombardment . Even though American daylight bombing efforts during World War II have become legendary,  a surprisingly  small number of American  Air Force officers  were totally committed  to the concept . In the final analysis  Hansell stands as the single force which linked Air Corps Tactical School ideas , the various air war plans , and operational  combat experience  into the comprehensive  strategic air war doctrine  which served America  through  the greater  part of World War II. The decision  to abandon that doctrine  was made by a small group of Air Force officers in the rush to defeat Japan before an invasion, using any technology available,  including  incendiary  and, finally,  nuclear  weapons . Hansell's  quest was to advocate  daylight  strategic  bombardment at the risk of his