he United States Army and was a Georgian  who was devoutly  Southern. The evening meal was an occasion  at the Hansell household  which saw Colonel Hansell arrive at the head of the table in a white 40  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 52 --- linen suit and Panama hat. He believed  in firm discipline  and demanded  nothing less than strict obedience. In later years, as corps surgeon he had prestige usually afforded a major general and received tremendous  respect in accordance  to his position  and rank. The sense of Southern  aristocracy  and of belonging  to the officer class had a great influence  on the relationship  between father and son. Young Haywood  was under great pressure  to live up to his father's  high expectations. 4 4 Ibid. 5 Ibid.Young Haywood's  mother was also a member of the Southern aristocracy. Susan Watts, like her husband, was devoutly Southern  but the similarities  ended there. She was a witty, intelligent  woman who had a wonderful  sense of humor . She loved to play practical  jokes and was a talented  story teller who enthralled  her children  with her yarns. Young Haywood, or "Hay" as she called him, was therefore  influenced  strongly  by two very different  personalities  and as an adult exhibited  the characteristics  of both parents almost equally. The self­ confident, disciplined,  engineer was the product of his father's  influence  while the literate,  romantic,  story teller was the product of his mother's influence. Through both he received  his sense of being a member of the genteel Southern aristocracy. 5 At the turn of the century  America  had just acquired  her empire and the Hansell family shared in the imperial 41  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 53 --- experience . Soon after young Haywood's  birth in 1903 the Hansell family was stationed in Peking , China, where Lieutenant  Hansell served in his capacity  as an Army doctor. Mrs. Hansell kept a diary of their Chinese experiences  and recorded  a very mem