emy to yield by using the appropriate  level and type of violence against him. The AWPD had planned a revolutionary  method of achieving that objective, but the ideas had clearly come from the ACTS in the 1930s . George, Hansell and the others had enjoyed the rare opportunity  of seeing their air war theories  actually  take wing. 79 Watts , 22 . 80 Futrell , I, 134.It is true that tactical air support , airlift, reconnaissance  and observation,  and air defenses had been slighted, but even the most severe critics of the strategic air war admit that the plan was appropriate  for the situation. In their critique  of the relationship  between  American  bombers and their escort Historians  McFarland  and Newton maintain that, "AWPD-I projected figures that staggered the 124  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 136 --- imagination,  but proved to be remarkably  accurate." 81 Given the time constraints,  lack or resources,  and limited  staff, it is quite remarkable  that four men could produce the American air plan for World War II in only nine days and forecast  U. S. combat groups within 2%, and the total number of officers  and men within 5.5%. AWPD-1 had predicted  a total of forty-four bombardment  groups and twenty-one  fighter groups in Europe. The actual numbers were sixty and forty-four,  respectively. More importantly,  the United States would deploy its air forces against Germany in accordance  with AWPD-1 with only surprisingly  minor adjustments. 82 81 McFarland  and Newton, 74. 82 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 103, 113. 83 Hansell, Air Plan, 89; Gaston, 97.The completed  plan was not especially  attractive  because there simply was no time for glossy maps, charts, or eye­ catching presentation. The twenty-three  copies of the document were mimeographed,  numbered, and kept under tight security. Barely meeting the deadline,  AWPD-1 was deposited with the War Department  General Staff at midnight of August 12, 1941.83 Finally submitting  the plan must ha