e to some degree out of favor. 11 Hansell  was aware that Baker was concerned  about the fate 200  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 212 --- of American  strategic  bombing and continued  in his letter to encourage  the Eighth Air Force Commander  : "I need not say how tremendously  proud I was of [the] Regensburg-Schweinfurt operation. In spite of the very heavy losses , I believe it was completely  justified  and represents  one of the turning points of the war....I believe that there is every confidence here that the 8th Air Force is going to do the job. Although you are very short now of personnel  replacements,  I do believe that General Arnold is doing everything  in his power to correct that situation." 12 He then turned to his own future . Leigh-Mallory's  appointment  had been confirmed  by the Combined Chiefs of Staff and Hansell addressed  his new role as deputy commander  of the tactical air forces . Yet, his heart was still with strategic  bombing and the Mighty Eighth . He was opposed to giving the tactical  role in OVERLORD  to the Ninth Air Force — he felt that that role could be fulfilled  by the Eighth Air Force . He concluded his letter to Baker by stating: "Although  my stay has protracted,  I believe it has paid dividends to the 8th Air Force . Certainly the opportunity  to talk to the President about the bomber offensive  was a gift from heaven."13 12 Hansell to Baker , July 24, 1943. 13 Ibid.On August 31 he accompanied  Arnold on an inspection  tour of England. By September 2 the party was at Baker  ' s headquarters  trying to make the best of a bad situation. 201  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 213 --- Hansell was on hand on September  6 when the Eighth struck at Stuttgart  with the disastrous  loss of forty-five  bombers . He returned  to Washington  with Arnold, but was back in London in October. By this time it was probably  obvious to Hansell that his future was no longer in the European Theater of Operations . In an interv