Hansell, Japan , 37-38.The third crisis must have come as a shock for Hansell . General  O'Donnell  gave Hansell  a hand-written  note in which he suggested  abandoning  the daylight mission and conducting  a night mission  instead. Hansell explained  that a night mission could not hit the target they had been directed  to attack and then informed  O'Donnell  that if he was unwilling  to lead the mission he would find someone who would. Hansell respected O'Donnell's  right and obligation  to write the letter and valued his honest opinion, 64 but later felt that he had made 268  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 280 --- a mistake . "If I'd had a little more time , I think I would have tried to find somebody  else to lead it. It's a very bad idea to give a dangerous  mission  to a guy who says he can't do it, but if I had put somebody  else in his place, I think the effect on the 73rd Bomb Wing would have been very bad. They liked Rosey O'Donnell  and had confidence  in him.”65 Hansell destroyed  the letter and nothing more was said. 65 Hansell, Yenne Interview; LeMay and Yenne, Superfortress , 103. 66 Hansell, Japan , 38.On the early morning of November  17, 1944, the 73rd Wing prepared for its first raid on Japan . Hansell briefed the crews himself  : "Stick together . Don't let fighter attacks break up the formations . And put the bombs on the target . If the bombers don't hit the target all our efforts and risks and worries and work will be for nothing . That's what we're here for. If we do our job, this is the beginning  of the end for Japan . Put the bombs on the target . You can do it."66 The crews took their stations  in the early dawn. Twenty-four  war correspondents , representing  every major news outlet in the US, made great fanfare. The flashing  of camera bulbs made the scene resemble a Hollywood  premier, not a bombing mission . Just as the fully-loaded  bombers were about to start down the single runway the wind changed  direction. For the missio