body, everybody . He was angry as hell — with me — with Hansell -­ with anybody who had anything  to do with it."9 As we have seen, Hansell's  correspondence  with Arnold also disappointed  the "Boss." Hansell was explaining  in detail why his missions  were not going as planned and Arnold was comparing  his letters to the terse missives of LeMay. Colonel Montgomery  recalled Arnold's attitude  : "LeMay was writing half-page reports telling Arnold what he did yesterday, and Hansell was writing a three-page report 288  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 300 --- explaining  why the mission aborted ."10 On December  16, 1944, Hansell had reported  the fact that he was far from satisfied with the efficiency  of his bomber operations  and discussed  the problem  of weather  and recent losses . He then explained  that Dr. Edward L. Bowles, a civilian consultant  on radar and electronic  aids, had suggested  stripping  the B-29s of excess weight and launching  night incendiary  missions. Hansell saw the utility  of such operations,  but only when a new wing could be trained for night operations;  He had no intention of devoting  his current three wings to incendiary  attacks. "I feel that our efforts can be directed against our primary target every time and that it will not be necessary  to waste our bombs on large city areas as a secondary  effort." Arnold did not even read the letter, at the top he scrawled: "Gen. Norstad[,]  Summarize  for me [.J"11 10 Montgomery,  Green Interview. 11 Hansell to Arnold, December  16, 1944, Record Group 18, File 201, National  Archives.By the end of December  Hansell  was well aware that Arnold was losing patience. Arnold reminded  Hansell that they were watching him "with the greatest anticipation. " He also reminded  him of the obligation  he had to "destroy  our targets and then we must show the results so the public can judge for itself as to the effectiveness  of our operations."  He was willing to concede that Hansell had begu