ashington  in 1  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 13 --- 1939. His efforts in military intelligence  involving strategic  targeting  led him to England in the summer of 1941 to witness the London Blitz and learn targeting from RAF Bomber Command . His experience  made him uniquely  qualified  to prepare the targeting information  for the Air War Plans Division  in its watershed  document AWPD-1, written in August 1941 as part of Franklin Delano Roosevelt's  secret Victory Program. AWPD-1 not only established  production  estimates  of aircraft  needed for victory should the United States become involved in World War II, it also planned the strategic bombing campaign  which would be conducted  in Europe . After top-level planning assignments  in Washington following Pearl Harbor , General Eisenhower  requested that Hansell be promoted to brigadier  general and join him in London as his air planner . In August 1942 Hansell was called back to Washington  to lead the team which prepared  AWPD-42 , a document  which went beyond abstract  war planning  to establish an American  air response  to the actual war situation  in late 1942. After serving with General Spaatz in the planning  for air operations  in TORCH (the invasion of French Northwest Africa) he served a brief time as commander of a medium bombardment  wing but was called to a more important  command. In January 1943 Hansell took command of the 1st Bombardment  Wing (Heavy) which directed  all B-17 activities  in the Eighth Air Force . From January through  June 1943 Hansell battled  great odds to make his bombers an effective  strategic 2  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 14 --- force . With only four operational  groups he directed the difficult operations  against the German U-boat facilities along the French coast and the first American  bomber raids on Germany itself . He placed himself in great danger by flying missions  as commander  of the 1st Wing and learned first hand the problems assoc