st of the war in France . Since the losses suffered  by the British in all the raids by the Germans was the equal of only a light attack along the Western Front, the real significance  of the German bombing raids lies elsewhere . Civilians had become the targets . Even though this eventuality  did not bring about the speedy collapse  of Great Britain  as the pre-war  predictions  had assumed, the targeting of civilians  did open a pandora's  box which could only bode ill for the future .14 14 Ibid, 22-26. 15 Ibid, 26.The Allies also launched a strategic  bombing campaign which attacked  only military  targets , at least at first . Lord Kitchner, British commander  in the early years of the Great War, had argued in favor of bombing  attacks on German industry as early as 1914. The Royal Naval Air Service was the first to take up the task with raids on zeppelin  bases, submarine installations , marshaling  yards , and ultimately  industrial targets in western Germany . Using Sopwith 1/2 strutters  and Handley Page 0/400s, they carried  out a modest but methodical campaign  in the summer of 1916.15 The French had devised  a strategic  bombing  plan based on what they called points sensibles ("sensitive  points ") or military targets which could block vital supply lines or production chains . The steel facilities of the Saar, Luxembourg , and western Germany became the focus of French 17  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 29 --- attention,  but the lack of bombing aircraft forced them to switch to night operations . Since the steel mills produced fires which could be seen for miles , this seemed to be the sensible  thing to do.16 16 Ibid, 28-29. 17 Kennett, The First Air War, 52; Kennett, Strategic Bombing , 35-36.The British launched  their attacks in the daylight  often with impunity. But on occasion  their losses could be as high as 3 percent . Accuracy  also suffered;  the British  could count only a 25 percent accuracy rate on targets as large as zeppelin  sh