would also like to recognize others who made  this project possible. Dr. I. B. Holley, Mr. DeWitt Copp, Mr. Bill Yenne, Mr. George Menzel, Mr. Duane Reed, Mr. Willbert  Mahoney, Major Eugene Adkins, USAF (ret.), and Mr. Tim Whitehead  contributed  in significant  ways. I would also like to thank my colleagues,  Christopher  "Buddy" Thomas, Bill Stanton, and John Felty who accompanied  me on many research trips. I also thank Mrs. Natilie Bailey and Mrs. Connie East for providing  many materials,  including  a microfilm  reader. Most of all, I would like to express my deepest appreciation  to the family of Haywood Hansell for sharing their experiences  and records and for offering  great encouragement.  Finally, I would like to express my thanks to my wife, Joyce, and son, Alexander,  with the promise that life will soon be back to normal . I apologize  for any errors which may appear in this text with the acknowledgement  that they are entirely  mine. iv  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 9 --- ABSTRACT Haywood Shepard Hansell , Jr. emerged in the 1930s as an important  player in American  air war planning  and operations. As a student and teacher at the Air Corps Tactical School Hansell helped develop a strategic air war theory which, unlike that of Giulio Douhet , targeted  industrial  and military targets rather than civilians . He went on to direct or write significant  portions  of America's  three major air war plans in World War II, AWPD-1, AWPD-42 , and the plan for the Combined Bomber Offensive. All three documents were devoted to daylight,  precision  bombing . Hansell served as the commander of the 1st Bombardment  Wing of the Eighth Air Force in early 1943 and thus was instrumental  in establishing  daylight bombing  tactics . Much to his dismay, however , Hansell saw the strategic bombing forces dispersed and directed against targets which were not strategic  in nature . In July 1943 Hansell returned  to the United States where he took an important