anal  had just begun , with the outcome very much in doubt . Tobruk had fallen and Egypt had not yet been saved at El Alamein . The Russians were falling back as the German armies neared 144  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 156 --- Stalingrad  and the oil fields of the Caucasus . In addition  to these problems , the German U-boats  had sunk 589 vessels in the first months of 1942, a loss which amounted  to 3,210,000  gross tons ; Great Britain was threatened  with collapse . It was in this crisis atmosphere  that Hansell and his new team set about to revise AWPD-1 .15 15 Ibid. 16 Ibid, 102.Hansell was to head the planning team for AWPD-42 , but most of the AWPD-1 team was available  for consultation.  Major General Hai George was in command  of the Air Transport  Service and Brigadier  General Larry Kuter was Deputy  Chief of the Air Staff, both of whom were helpful in writing the new plan. Brigadier  General Ken Walker was in charge of the V Bomber Command of the Fifth Air Force in New Guinea . (He would be killed in January 1943 during a bombing raid on Rabaul and receive a posthumous Congressional  Medal of Honor.) Lieutenant  Colonel Malcom Moss, Hansell's economic warfare expert from AWPD-1, also lent his expertise  to the new plan. The time pressure was similar to that which drove AWPD-1 ; Hansell and his team had only eleven days to complete  AWPD- 42.16 The basic strategy  behind  AWPD-1 continued  in AWPD-42  : to undermine  and destroy "the capability  and will of Germany to wage war by destroying  its war-supporting  industries  and systems." Strategic  offense would  be used against Germany, 145  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 157 --- while strategic  defense would be used against Japan and, as Craven and Cate observed, there was little essential  change between  AWPD-1 and AWPD-42 at a strategic  level. Yet military necessity  dictated  some important  changes in the structure  of the plan. It was feared that Russia would collapse at an