o carry an attacker  safely over enemy territory. In fact, Douhet felt that defensive  armament on his battle plane was chiefly for the morale of the air crews , not to defend them from any real threat .28 28 Douhet , 40-44. 29 Ibid, 50-60. 30 Stephen McFarland  and Wesley Newton, To_Command_the Sky, (Washington:  The Smithsonian  Institution  Press, 1991), 19-21.Target selection  was very important  and, according  to Douhet , also very difficult. The selection  of objectives  and the order in which they ought to be destroyed  fell under the title of "aerial strategy. " His first objective  was not his opponent's  air fleet . On the contrary,  bombers  must avoid the preliminaries  of aerial combat and get on with the business  of bombing strategic  targets , because, "...the chances are not only that it [the air fleet] will fail to find the enemy Air Force in the air, but also that the latter is at that very moment carrying  out unchallenged  its operations  against the home territory." 29 The only chance at air superiority  lay not in dog fights high in the clouds , but in the destruction of an enemy's bases and means of production. 30 For Douhet, "means of production"  could mean only one 25  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 37 --- thing -- the cities . The attack must be swift, ruthless , and deadly . "Within  a few minutes some 20 tons of high-explosive, incendiary,  and gas bombs will rain down. First would come the explosives,  then fires, then deadly gases floating  on the surface and preventing  any approach to the stricken  area." 31 The scene is truly apocalyptic  and it was intended  to be. The objective  was to terrorize  the survivors  into capitulation through  massive attacks, not only on one city but to as many as fifty in a single day. It is also important  to note that poison gas would be used from the outset; Douhet's strategy did not allow for threats or posturing  before his most deadly card was played. 32 31 Douhet, 58. 32 Ibid, 58-59.