force and bomber command commander, treating Longfellow  more like an operations  officer than a commanding general .46 46 Ibid, 203. 47 Hansell, "Notes of a Bomber Commander,"  1.As of January  2, Hansell had only four operational  heavy bomber groups. Colonel LeMay's 305th, Colonel De Roussy's 303rd, Colonel  Wray's 91st, and Colonel  Armstrong's  306th were all experienced  and ready for missions . The oldest bombardment  group in the Eighth Air Force, the 92nd, was no longer operational.  Lieutenant  Colonel Sutton's  group was in the process of moving from Bovingdon  to Alconbury,  but its major problem was high operational  losses. Hansell had to work hard to keep this group together. As Hansell recalled, "VIII Bomber Command wanted to deactivate  the Group. I objected. I did not want history to report that a U.S. heavy bombardment  group had been destroyed  in combat. The 92nd was finally rebuilt and the group carried on a worthy record." 47 In theory the 1st Bomb Wing would have 160 B-17s available  for operations,  with usually around seventy-two  aircraft being launched  for any given combat mission. In addition  to the two B-24 groups of the 2nd Bombardment  Wing, Hansell's  wing was the entirety  of the Eighth Air Force. This was a far cry from the aircraft  requirements  laid down by the AWPD plans. Operation  SICKEL (the build-up  of the Eighth Air Force in 161  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 173 --- England) was adversely  affected  by needs in other theaters  of operations . Two heavy bombardment  groups were sent from England to the Twelfth Air Force . Two additional  heavy bombardment  groups which were slated for the Eighth were sent to the Asiatic-Pacific  Theater . Lieutenant  General Frank Andrews , the new European  Theater  of Operations  commander,  and General Baker resisted  any shift of forces , but were unable to retain the promised  strength. Another problem  was a lack of available shipping, which prevented the transport of th