3  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 75 --- explored  an expanded  role for the Air Corps . The Drum Board's recommendation  was for the creation of a GHQ Air Force of 1,800 aircraft . This was not the independent  air force desired by the advocates of air power but it was a more immediately  achievable  goal . The idea of a GHQ Air Force was further  helped by the ill-fated  air mail episode  of the winter of 1934, when the federal government  called upon the Air Corps to take over air mail service . The attempt failed after a series of highly publicized  fatal crashes . The inability  of the Air Corps to do something  as apparently  simple as deliver the mail without sustaining  a number of fatalities  alarmed many in the Roosevelt  Administration .46 46 Ibid, 30-31; Shiner, 144.As a result of the air mail fiasco former Secretary  of War Newton D. Baker was called upon to head a board to investigate the state of the Air Corps and make recommendations . The advocates  of air power used the occasion to push for an independent  air force, but the board was simply opposed to the idea of an independent  air arm or a unified department  of defense . The Baker Board determined  that the problems  of the Air Corps would be solved by more control, not less . Since the post of Assistant  Secretary  of War for Air had been abolished  early in the Roosevelt  Administration,  the Board advocated that duties such as individual  training, procurement , and supply would be assumed by the Chief of the Air Corps . For actual air operations , the GHQ Air Force would 64  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 76 --- be established  and would be responsible  to the Army Chief of Staff in peace and commander  of the field forces in war. As a civilian on the Baker Board, James H. Doolittle  filed a minority report advocating  the separation  of the Air Corps from the Army. As an Air Corps Tactical School instructor, Captain  Harold George insisted  that, "so long as we have an ai