attles between aircraft  and, as Hansell had put it at ACTS , no "death ray" had yet been invented . The only way for a strategic air force to destroy fighter opposition  was to destroy the German aircraft industry and depend on the defensive  fire of the American  bombers . Hansell identified  eighteen large aircraft assembly plants, six large aluminum  plants, and six magnesium  plants 119  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 131 --- which were the heart of the German aircraft industry. After 113 group missions  in the six-months  of the air offensive  the German fighter threat would, according  to the plan, be greatly diminished. Hansell acknowledged  the success of British fighters  over the German bombers in the Battle of Britain, but he concluded  that the size of the German aircraft  along with their deficiency  in defensive  armament contributed  to their failure . The American bombers would be technologically superior  to any aircraft  the Germans had used against Britain and the American aircraft would have sufficient  defensive firepower. 69 69 AWPD-1, Tab 2.This is not to say that the AWPD overlooked the possibility  of escort fighters . On the contrary , the subject was surprisingly  thoroughly  explored. The document  conceded: "It has not yet been demonstrated  that the technical improvements  to the bombardment  airplane are or can be sufficient  to overcome the pursuit airplane, permitting  day operations  in the face of strong pursuit  opposition.  " It went on to acknowledge  that , "The importance  of day attacks is recognized  in scoring hits against vital targets . It is unwise to neglect development  of escort fighters  designed  to enable bombardment  formations to fight through to the objective . "70 In its simplest form AWPD-1 called for twelve groups of 70 Ibid. 120  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 132 --- B-29s (very heavy bombers ) , twenty groups of B-17s (heavy bombers)  , and ten groups of B-26s (medium  bombers) to be bas