t Arnold fired Hansell . Norstad realized  that Hansell would not easily go along with firebombing  Japan's cities and that his press releases were only confirming  his committment  to daylight, precision attacks and thus not preparing  the public for the eventuality of urban area attacks . In Norstad's  eyes , Hansell had to go. Years later Norstad  was asked if he was only the "hatchet  man" in the dismissal  of Hansell . He revealed that he was much more : "...I was more than a hatchet man... I had to decide to take the action before we lost the goddamned war. That was part of it, because the Old Man really had to come to a point where he was torn between his great fondness for Hansell -­ very warm personal feeling -- and what had developed. And surely there were . . . more circumstances  in which Hansell had no control , and over those which he did have control , utter absolute complete and irreversible  lack of competence." 17 Norstad and Hansell had been friends, so this judgement  of Hansell's  abilities  was not prompted  by personal animosity. Norstad had little appreciation  of what Hansell had accomplished  under very trying conditions  and he saw Hansell as an impediment  to the proposed incendiary  raids against 17 Norstad, Green Interview. 292  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 304 --- Japanese cities . Hansell's  belief in daylight, precision bombing had cost him "the best job in the Air Force." Brigadier  General Ramey flew back to China with LeMay to take over the XX Bomber Command and LeMay would take over the XXI Bomber Command  on January  20. The two weeks remaining  in Hansell's command were most unpleasant  for him and those around him, but the daylight, precision  missions continued. On January 9, 1945, another attack on the Nakajima-Musashino aircraft complex near Tokyo was disappointing,  with only twenty-four  bombs landing in the plant site at a cost of six B-29s . On January 14 seventy-three  B-29s were launched against the Mitsubi