n of ACTS bombardment  doctrine and prompted historian  Robert Finney to conclude  that these two instructors "consciously  or unconsciously"  provided  "the covering  for the skeleton built by Mitchell. 1,55 As noted in Chapter 1, Mitchell leaned more and more in his later years toward the ideas of Douhet , so much so it is difficult  to distinguish Mitchell's  ideas from those of Douhet . Controversy  still surrounds  the role of Douhet 's theories in the formulation  of strategic  bombing doctrine at ACTS. 68  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 80 --- There is no doubt that Douhet's  writing  were available  to the students  at ACTS as early as 1923 and in light of this it is inconceivable  that the Air Corps officers  who constituted  the faculty and student body at ACTS would not search out every possible  source in a field in which so little work had been done. At the very least Douhet's theories were transmitted through the influence of Mitchell . Douhet's ideas were familiar  to those who taught and studied at ACTS.56 56 ibid, 27; Fabyanic , 15; Thomas H. Greer, The Development  of Air Doctrine in the Army Air Arm 1917-1941 , (Washington:  Office of Air Force History, 1985) , 50-51; Robert F. Frutrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine: A History of Basic Thinking in the United States Air Force 1907-1964  2 vols., (Montgomery,  Alabama : Aerospace  Studies Institute,  1971), I, 63 ; Conrad C. Crane, Bombs, Cities, and Civilians:  American Airpower Strategy in World War II, (Lawrence, Kansas  : University  Press of Kansas , 1993), 17-18.A distinction  must be made, however , between being familiar  with Douhet's concepts and accepting  them totally. Douhet's  advocacy  of attacking  an enemy's  vital center and his belief of a self-defending  bomber became a part of American air power doctrine,  but his hellish  vision of initial attacks against the enemy civilian  population  was all but rejected  out of hand. Even Mitchell  thought a few gas bombs could paraly