that two and a half years after M-Day (Mobilization  Day) , but that the Air Force could begin operations  within one year of M-Day. The first tasks of the Air Force operating  out of England  and the Middle East would be to attain air superiority  by attacking  airbases, 113  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 125 --- aircraft  factories,  and light metal industries . The next task performed  during the build-up  was to undermine  the war-making foundations  of Germany. Finally, in an intensive  six-month bombing campaign, the strategic bombing forces would tenaciously  attack selected target systems in Germany and German-occupied  Europe with large concentrations  of bombers using precision  bombing techniques .54 54 Ibid, 71-78; Craven and Cate, 1, 148. 55 Hansell , Air Plan , 87; Craven and Cate, I, 149.D-Day (the invasion of Northwest  Europe by the Allies) could not be conducted  before the spring of 1944. Thus if the strategic campaign yielded the results the planners envisioned,  the invasion itself would be unnecessary. Yet they feared that if the heavy bomber forces were diverted  from their strategic  targets to support of the invasion that the chance to defeat Germany  with air power alone would be lost . They allocated,  therefore,  what they felt would be adequate tactical forces to be used in conjunction  with the ground forces . Those forces would include thirteen  groups of A-20 light bombers , two photo-reconnaissance  groups , one hundred and eight observation  squadrons , nine transport  groups , and five pursuit groups based in the United Kingdom . The AWPD hoped that this tactical  air force would free the bombers to carry out the true purpose of AWPD-1 .55 Since the ultimate  objective  of AWPD-1 was to force the capitulation  of Germany through strategic bombing , the 114  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 126 --- selection  of targets was of the utmost importance . Hansell was the foremost targeting  expert in the Army Air Forces.