wood Hansell represents the idealistic precision  bombardment  concept pursued throughout  the war, while Arnold and his staff were moving to the more expedient and pragmatic  policy of burning Japanese  cities. Hansell retired  soon after his dismissal  as commander  of the XXI Bomber Command . His contemporaries  such as Generals 36  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 48 --- LeMay, Norstad, and Kuter became much more famous and each attained high rank in the new United States Air Force. Hansell passed from the scene, his achievements  and ideas largely  ignored. Yet Hansell clearly  played a crucial role in the development  of strategic  air warfare. He may well have been, as Barry Watts argues, "the guiding  conceptual  thinker" among that small group of generals who made major contributions  to America's  air war doctrine  during World War II and beyond. 48 48 Watts, 25. 37  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 49 --- CHAPTER II EDUCATION Haywood Shepard Hansell  Jr. was born the son on an Army surgeon on September  28, 1903 at Fort Monroe , Virginia. By the time he was a teenager  he acquired  the nickname  " ' Possum" which was later shortened  simply to "Pos." In an effort to explain his nickname , Hansell invented the story that he selected  the name himself because it is Latin for "can do." Other accounts state that he acquired the name because he "hunted  the marsupial  in his native Georgia"  or that he napped during his morning classes at Georgia Tech. The simple truth is that his " thin, inquisitive  nose and mouth and small bright eyes won him the nickname  ' Possum'  . " In short, he looked like a 'possum. Trivial though it may be, the nickname offers insight into the qualities  of the man.1 1 The Atlanta Journal , June 6, 1943  ; The Atlanta Constitution , June 6, 1943.Hansell was an engineer by training and possessed  the stereotypical  attributes  of his profession. He tackled problems  with a "can do" attitude,  working with an intensity w