o launch the first heavy bomber raids on Japan from the Marianas . During this time he was the virtual equal of General MacArthur  and Admiral Nimitz in the Pacific , answerable only to General Arnold in Washington . His career was meteoric until his principles  came into conflict  with the demands of his superiors . He insisted  on deploying the XXI Bomber Command against only precision targets in daylight  operations  while General  Arnold and others advocated  incendiary  raids on Japanese cities . In January 35  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 47 --- 1945 he was suddenly  relieved  of command. American  strategic bombing doctrine had always maintained  that industrial  and military  targets  would be the targets, not civilians. In 1945 this long-held  doctrine  was suddenly  abandoned  and Hansell  was the only Air Force officer  who forcefully  opposed  area attacks on cities. This opposition  cost him his career. Hansell's main contribution  to air doctrine  was his strong advocacy  of the concept that through  selective  targeting  and an ability  to place the bombs on the target, air power could win wars by crippling  an enemy's ability  to supply his forces and without wanton death and destruction  among civilians. He held this belief until the day he died, defending  it in three books and a number of factual articles. Ronald Schaffer and Michael Sherry have examined the slide from America's  insistence  upon precision  bombardment  to the incendiary  and atomic raids on Japan. According  to them, there were two American  strategic  bombing policies in World War II : the pre-war belief in precision  bombardment  as an almost abstract  concept and the policy of all-out attacks on cities which seemed to be forced upon the Army Air Forces by necessity. Haywood Hansell represents the idealistic precision  bombardment  concept pursued throughout  the war, while Arnold and his staff were moving to the more expedient and pragmatic  policy of burning Japane