r one morning early in its existence, "a burly Marine captain entered, bearing  a locked and sealed briefcase. He wore side arms and an armed guard accompanied  him. With much ceremony, he removed  a message from his briefcase  and received  a signed receipt . The message was from the Joint Chiefs of Staff by way of the Joint Plans Committee . It was a masterpiece  of directness  and simplicity  asking in effect  : 'What should be the strategic  concept of the conduct of the war? ' 1,108 Their first task was to come to some understanding  of just how badly the war was going for the Allies, so they received a presentation  from the Joint Intelligence  Committee. The prospects  were gloomy at best . The collapse of Russia was predicted  for the spring 1942 and they fully expected the Germans and Japanese  to join hands in Karachi , India, within the year . Since Europe appeared to be a lost cause, most members of the JSC favored a strategic offensive in the Pacific and a strategic  defense in the Western Hemisphere. Hansell, most unwilling  to see his strategic  campaign  against Germany abandoned, worked with Lieutenant  Colonel Albert Wedemeyer  through  many hours of heated debate to convince  the JSC that the "Germany  First" strategy  of ABC-1 , RAINBOW  No. 5, and the ARCADIA Conference  was the only strategy to adopt . 13 5  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 147 --- The decision process had been accelerated  after the Joint Chiefs of Staff impatiently  sent a message  demanding  an answer to their question . Finally, although  originally  three fourths of the committee was for abandoning  Europe , Hansell and Wedemeyer  convinced  their colleagues  that Germany  was by far the more dangerous  enemy.109 109 Ibid, 45-53 . 110 Ibid, 53-56.This was, however , not the end of their disagreement . The JSC accepted the "Germany-First " principle, but then suggested  sending  a strategic  bombing  force to guard the route between Hawaii and Australia. Not only was