ake matters worse , fifteen  combat groups destined  for England  were sent to the Pacific. In addition  to these problems, the Eighth Air Force had to prepare the Twelfth  Air Force for Operation  TORCH in North Africa. Hansell found himself so caught up in the myriad of operations  that he was not making policy as much as he was carrying  out the very dispersion  of strategic  bomber forces to which he was so opposed. 6 5 Craven and Cate, II, 45. 6 Ibid, 55, 61, 63, 243.Baker's VIII Bomber Command flew its first heavy bomber mission  on August 17, 1942, with Baker flying along in "Yankee Doodle, " the lead aircraft in the second flight . The B-17s bombed the rail yards at Rouen without loss . Hansell flew his first combat mission  on August 20, in the wake of the commando raid on Dieppe which had occurred  the day before. Twelve B- 17s were detailed to bomb the Longeau Marshalling  Yards at 141  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 153 --- Amiens . Hansell had received  permission  to go on the mission only at the last minute and had arrived at the field only a half hour before take off. As he hurriedly  prepared  for the mission he was not issued the proper equipment. 7 7 Roger Freeman, The Mighty Eighth , (Garden City: Doubleday,  1970), 12; Copp, Forged in Fire , 291. 8 Copp, Forged in Fire , 291.Hansell flew in the B-17 commanded  by Major Paul Tibbets . Brigadier  Newton Longfellow  had accompanied  Tibbets on an earlier  mission  and when a crewmember  was wounded the general had, as Tibbets saw it, interfered  with the operation  of the aircraft. For this reason Tibbets had decided to have any future passengers  ride in the radio compartment.  As they flew over France Hansell discovered  that his oxygen mask was not functioning  properly  and took his gloves off to repair it, thus causing a painful frostbite  to his hands. The mission itself was a milk run, but when they arrived back at base Hansell was in great pain. 8 Tibbets later remembered  the miss