tics as "panacea targets " and later made the ball-bearing  facilities at Schweinfurt, Germany, infamous .86 86 Finney, 32-35; Sherry, Rise , 54.Targeting  is pointless  if the aircraft  can not reach the target because of enemy opposition,  yet little attention  was paid at ACTS to this problem. Hansell's  lectures reveal a lack of concern  over enemy opposition  in the air : "The Pursuit Section  here at the School ... feels that units of perhaps 12 to 15 pursuit airplanes  might engage bombardment  units of almost any size. Of course, with a numerical  inferiority  the 84  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 96 --- defending  pursuit may not shoot down many bombers ."87 As we have seen, the level of pursuit technology  of the time did not offer much promise of a viable defense against bombers. Because of the lack of early warning systems in the 1930s Hansell estimated  that a city would need at least 900 pursuit aircraft to provide adequate defense and came to the conclusion  that, "... it is not feasible to provide pursuit defenses  on a broad scale that are capable of adequate  defense against enemy bombers." 88 89 Yet he did caution that the students should be careful about accepting that type of general statement . Technology  was constantly  changing  and no one could tell what the future might hold. But at that time Hansell pointed out that bombers would have the advantage  of initiative  in the absence on early warning. He did, however, seem to recognize  the potential  value of pursuit escort for bombers,  but concluded  that, "Although  accompanying  pursuit is highly desirable, it cannot normally be counted upon in attacks against the interior  because of the limited range of pursuit aviation. 1,89 At any rate, since pursuit aviation lacked the capacity to attack strategic  ground targets it should not be included in a striking force. Hansell's 87 Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., "The Employment  of Defensive Force, " The Papers of Haywood Hansell (Microfil