d judgment. But this first great gamble proved the feasibility  of the assault . Momentum, confidence,  and improved  efficiency  would come with experience  and numbers . If the decision had been to ' stand down' SAN ANTONIO I and substitute  a night attack against some urban area, the result would have been catastrophic , in my opinion, particularly  as regards confidence  in and continuation of the Twentieth Air Force.75 Hansell's  next concern  was to keep the bombers in the air and attacking  targets . On November  27, 1944, SAN ANTONIO II was launched  against the Musashino  Plant for a second time . Eighty-one  B-29s launched  against  Japan and fifty nine dropped bombs on Japan. The target was completely  cloud covered and the bombers were forced to bomb the dock and urban area by radar , with poor results . One B-29 ditched, but there were no other losses . The Japanese  attacked  Isley Field twice that 274  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 286 --- day, once at noon (an attack which sent Hansell and Montgomery under a jeep for protection)  and again at Midnight. In the second attack, Hansell and his deputy commander,  Brigadier General Roger Ramey, witnessed  a twin-engine  Japanese  plane strafe the runway and then crash in a violent explosion. An number of B-29s were destroyed  and Hansell saw two B-29s "burning  like torches" as men worked to move the other sixty­ ton bombers, many of which were loaded with gas and bombs , out of harm's way. Fifty caliber ammunition  was going off like fire crackers  and the scene reminded  Hansell of a scene from Dante's Inferno . Nearby engineers came to the rescue, performing  heroics which, according to Hansell, were "far beyond the call of duty. "76 Hansell had been concerned enough to take what measures  he could by sending some B-29s to Guam, but the attacks still plagued  his command. 77 76 Hansell, Strategic Air War, 191-192; Hansell to Norstad, December  2, 1944, Record Group 18, File 201, National Archi