robable  that Mitchell  developed  his advocacy for an independent  air force which could mass its power and be deployed offensively. He had a respect for the concept of striking at an enemy's vital centers , but when it came to commanding  his own air units , he dealt in the realm of the tactical . As an operational  commander , he was forced to deal with such mundane tasks as detailed training, unit administration,  and tactical direction  -- all of which were essential for air operations .35 He also, unlike Douhet, placed emphasis  upon pursuit, claiming  that , "The daytime use of bombardment  without the cooperation  of pursuit is not 27  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 39 --- contemplated  except in rare cases. With the war's end the Americans  were content to abandon Europe and retire to the safety of their insular continent . This meant that advocacy of first-strike  strategic  bombing would have no place in post-war  American  doctrine . Mitchell was forced by circumstances  to advocate  a new, more comforting role for the bomber . He contended  that the bomber could be a defensive  weapon, used to protect America's  sea lanes from enemy naval attack. When the Navy discounted  the ability of the bomber to sink a battleship, Mitchell took up the challenge  and sank the former German battleship  Ostfriesland at anchor off the coast of Virginia . In later tests he sank other obsolete  American  battleships , but he failed to convince the Navy that their ships were vulnerable  to air attack. With these successes in hand, he became the chief advocate of American  air power.36 37 36 McFarland  and Newton , 23 . 37 Sherry, The Rise, 29; Weigley, The American  Way of War, 227-228.A great deal of money would have to be spent to make the Army Air Service the chief defender  of America's  coasts, and Washington  had no intention  of spending  it. The condition  of aircraft and facilities  within the Army Air Service was deplorable  and getting  worse . Mitchel