and reported  that a corporal offered the general a sandwich: "General Hansell helped himself to one of the brown triangles and inspected its contents . 'Why do they cut this stuff so thin? ' he grumbled. And he promptly bit off a big mouthful . A Young staff lieutenant  asked him about the mission. 'It was a fine trip, ' he said as casually  as if the raid had been an automobile  ride 179  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 191 --- in the country. 1,87 The next two missions  were termed "milk runs." Hansell's bombers struck Rouen on March 12 and Amiens on March 13. On March 18 the 1st Wing attacked  the U-boat yards at Vegesack. Seventy percent of the bombs fell within 1000 feet of the target. Hansell  had had cameras installed  on each aircraft  to record bomb damage. This way the bomb groups could compete and, as Hansell pointed out, "The competition  had a salutary effect." 87 88 There had been fifteen U-boats in varying degrees of construction,  seven of which had been damaged  severely,  one capsized,  and six others slightly  damaged. At the time it was estimated  that the Bremer Vulkan Yards would produce  only four additional  U-boats in a six-month  period. This estimate of the long-term  effect proved to be too sanguine,  but the strike photos had been accurate . Andrews and Baker had traveled  to Brampton Grange to await word on the raid, which certainly made the results  very gratifying  for Hansell. On March 22 the 1st Wing struck the U-boat yards at Wilhelmshaven  with a loss of two aircraft. The marshalling  yards at Rouen were attacked with a loss of one on March 28. On March 31 the ship yards at Rotterdam  were struck with three B-17s lost due to a mid-air collision.  Considering  the resources available  to Hansell, 87 "Danver Gets a Look at Puttsburghers  Returning  from Raid, " unidentified,  undated newspaper article from the Hansell Family Collection. 88 Hansell, "Notes of a Bomber Commander,"  8. 180  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- P