apan before an invasion, using any technology available,  including  incendiary  and, finally,  nuclear  weapons . Hansell's  quest was to advocate  daylight  strategic  bombardment at the risk of his life, reputation,  and career . Unlike any Quixotic quest, however , Hansell's ideas eventually established  the doctrine of the modern United States Air Force. 7  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 19 --- CHAPTER I THE PROBLEMS  OF AIR POWER Major General Haywood S. Hansell , Jr., USAF (ret.) and his son, Colonel Haywood S. Hansell III, USAF, delivered  a speech entitled "Air Power in National Strategy"  before the Center for Aerospace  Doctrine,  Research,  and Education  (CADRE ) Nuclear  Strategy  Symposium  held at Maxwell  Air Force Base from September  10 - 12, 1987. After General Brent Scowcroft, President  Reagan's National Security  Advisor, was forced to cancel as keynote speaker he called upon the Hansells . The audience consisted  of recognized  strategists , most of whom were civilians . This select group was surprised  to learn that the Hansells  believed  that Strategic  Defense Initiative  (SDI) would make conventional  strategic  airpower  the most important military  component  in future wars and future deterrence .1 1 Colonel Haywood S. Hansell III to Charles Griffith, January 14, 1992; Haywood S. Hansell, Jr. and Haywood S. Hansell III, "Air Power in National Strategy, " A speech delivered  before the CADRE Nuclear  Strategy  Symposium,  Maxwell AFB, September  10-12, 1987, from the Hansell Family's  private collection .The speech was divided into two parts  : "Then, " delivered by General Hansell and "Now, " delivered  by Colonel Hansell . General Hansell minced no words in extolling  the virtues of the daylight,  precision  bombing  campaign  of the United States against Germany during World War II. This campaign, which 8  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 20 --- lasted from August 1942 to April 1945 called for "undermining the enemy m