ing  on November  22.20 20 Coffey, Hap, 325-326; Arnold Diary, Arnold Papers, Container  272, Library  of Congress;  Thomas B. Buell, Master of Sea Power , (Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 1980), 419; Burns, 402-403; Haywood Hansell, Jr., "The Military in American Society Today: The Questions an Old-Timer  Might Raise," in David MacIsaac,  ed., The Military  and Society: The Proceedings  of the Fifth Military History Symposium , (The United States Air Force Academy , 5-6 October 1972), 73.Rear Admiral  Bernhard  H. Bieri chaired  the meeting  of the Joint Planners during the SEXTANT Conference. Brigadier General Frank N. Roberts was the Army representative,  and since the Air Force was part of the Army, Bieri did not consider  Hansell to be an equal. Nevertheless,  Hansell put forth three important  proposals:  (1) the consolidation  of the 205  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 217 --- strategic air forces in Europe and in the Pacific  ; ( 2 ) recognizing  strategic  air war as the principal  war-winning strategy  and utilizing  it against Japan; (3) obtaining  sites from which Japan could be bombed . General  Roberts was helpful and the Joint Plans Committee  agreed to all the important proposals  affecting  the Air Force.21 Hansell was, in effect , supporting  the Navy's position, because the capture of the Marianas by naval forces was the corner stone of both the Navy's and Air Force's strategy in the Pacific . Hansell counted it a great victory  when the Combined Chiefs of Staff agreed, " to obtain objectives  from which we can conduct intensive  air bombardment  and establish  a sea and air blockade against Japan and from which to invade Japan proper if this should be necessary.  "22 21 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 136-141. 22 Ibid, 141.The plan for MATTERHORN  saw much more resistance. Neither the Joint or Combined  Planners  showed much enthusiasm for operating  B-29s from China. Practically  every member showed some objection  or at least some unce