ply the principles  of air warfare  against  imaginary  enemies . The training was as practical as possible for American military  forces in the late 1930s.77 77 Haywood  S. Hansell, Jr., "Air Force - Course Outline, " The Papers of Haywood Hansell (Microfilm  Edition) , AFHRC , Maxwell AFB; Lieutenant Colonel Donald Wilson to First Lieutenant  Haywood Hansell, The Papers of Haywood Hansell (Microfilm  Edition) , AFHRC, Maxwell AFB; Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., "Employment  of Offensive  Force, " The Papers of Haywood Hansell (Microfilm  Edition) , AFHRC, Maxwell AFB. 78 Hansell, "The Influence  of Air Force on Land Warfare. "Hansell was also very careful to advocate  his ideas and still tacitly remain within the confines of existing War Department  doctrine . For example, in April 1938 Hansell gave a lecture entitled, "The Influence of Air Force on Land Warfare ." In the lecture he conceded that " the ultimate objective  of all military  operations  is the destruction  of the enemy's armed forces by battle, " but concluded  the lecture, "If, by the application  of air power , we can deny to the enemy ground forces the essential  munitions  for waging a conclusive land operation,  if in other words , we can isolate the troops on the battlefield  from their essential  supplies , then we will have had a profound influence upon the conduct of land warfare, and will have made a maximum  contribution  toward the object of war, whether or not the air force is ever actually seen on the battlefield.  "78 Even though the departure  from War Department  doctrine  was not very subtle, he did exhibit  an 80  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 92 --- awareness  of the necessity  of operating  within the system. Hansell took great care to communicate  the new principles of strategic  air war and their historical  background. He often relied on von Moltke's definition  of strategy -- "the art of applying  the means available  to the attainment  of the end desired. " Hansell would