ilippines . Thus, as was so often the case in the Pacific, the two rival strategies  were both endorsed and Hansell would have his Marianas  bases. 41 41 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 22-24; Hayes , 593. 42 Hansell, Japan , 18.Hansell's next major objective  was to establish the command  structure  of this new strategic  air force. He and his colleagues  at ACTS had long held that an independent  air force was essential  to strategic  operations.  By "independent"  they meant that the bomber force would be independent  of the surface forces and would be free to launch an uninterrupted bombing campaign against strategic targets in the enemy's hinterland.  Since the Eighth Air Force had been under theater command, it was often diverted  to such tactical  operations  as the invasion of North Africa and the interdiction  missions prior to OVERLORD. Hansell had always viewed such diversions as counter  productive  to the true purpose of a bombing force. At Cairo Hansell was successful  in carrying out Arnold's wishes in creating the United States Strategic  Air Force, consisting  of the Eighth  and Fifteenth  Air Forces. Yet, even Spaatz's  USSTAF was under the theater commander  and liable to be used for tactical  missions. 42 Every theater commander  had a vested interest in being able to use the B-29 for his own particular  purposes . Admiral Mountbatten  recommended  that the JCS retain control over the VLR (very long range) bomber force, but that the local theater 217  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 229 --- commander  be treated as an equal of the bomber commander. In short, Mountbatten  wanted Stillwell  to have control of the bombers in China so he could utilize their services  when he wanted them. Since their was no unity of command in the Asiatic-Pacific  Theater as there was in the European, Montbatten's  plan would have meant that he, MacArthur,  and Nimitz would be in a continual  tug of war over the allocation and use of the aircraft. The British wan