titution , June 6, 1943.Hansell was an engineer by training and possessed  the stereotypical  attributes  of his profession. He tackled problems  with a "can do" attitude,  working with an intensity which was often reflected  in his "small bright eyes" and the fact that he usually  accomplished  what he set out to do. Once he directed  his full attention  to a project  he would use every means at his disposal  to complete it, whether  it was a formula 38  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 50 --- for laying pipes or the plan for the strategic  bombing of Germany. After he had gathered all the data possible and reached a decision based on his own analysis , he was determined  to make his plan work simply because  he believed  in his own abilities . Unlike the stereotypical  engineer, however , Hansell possessed  a sense of romanticism  which directed him  to paths that were not frequented  by most technicians . He loved Gilbert  and Sullivan  operettas , quoted Shakespeare,  wrote his own poetry and lyrics to songs , and was obsessed by Cervantes's  Don Quixote . Just as Don Quixote jousted with windmills , Hansell saw himself  as the champion  of lost causes . Even though he would later arrive at his strategic  air war doctrine through an engineer's  unemotional  logic , he would defend that doctrine with the zeal of one committed  to a romantic quest . From his days as a fledgling  lieutenant  to the peak of his career as commander  of the XXI Bomber Command , he fought for his concept of airpower  against opponents  who were far more dangerous  to his career than mere windmills . Hansell displayed  in his personal  life and in his career an ability to determine  what he wanted to accomplish  and the will to accomplish  it, even against great odds . In his military  career he would achieve a well-earned  reputation  as a technological  expert who was well respected  by his fellow officers . On the other hand, his more literary side was misunderstood  by his co