man  and was honored by an invitation  to the boilermakers'  ball . His only problem  was that he did not know what to wear, so he decided it was better to be overdressed and rented a tuxedo for the occasion. Upon arrival he was shocked to see every one else in tails; he was underdressed after all. This story became one of his favorites  in later years , but despite his pride in being accepted by the boilermakers,  he knew his talents were being wasted. 18 18 Ibid; Shalett , 94.Aviation promised America a bright future in 1928. Lindberg  had crossed  the Atlantic  the year before and aviation technology  was growing  at a tremendous  rate . Hansell decided that his future lay in aeronautical  engineering,  but it was a difficult  field to break into without flying experience  and the best source of such experience  was the Army. The Army Air Corps was under budgeted  and flew an inventory  of obsolete  or obsolescent  aircraft. The shortage  of aviation  officers  was so acute that they could not replace those lost through attrition  caused by accidents . It was difficult  to fill the slots for commissioned  pilots from West Point or even from the other branches of the Army, so each year hundreds  of potential aviators  enrolled  as flying cadets , the successful  candidates receiving  reserve commissions . Hansell decided to become a flying cadet, serve in the Army for one term, and then begin 50  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 62 --- his civilian  career as an aeronautical  engineer .19 19 John F. Shiner, Foulois and the U.S. Army Air Corps 1931-1935 , (Washington:  Office of Air Force History, 1983), 32. 20 Haywood S. Hansell III, Griffith Interview; Mrs. Haywood  S. Hansell, Jr., Griffith  Interview;  Dennett  Hansell, Griffith  Interview.Hansell began his Air Corps primary flight training  at March Field, California,  in March 1928. From the minute he got in the airplane  his whole life turned around; he had found the direction  his life had needed. By