"He'd have fired his own mother if she didn't produce ."10 Washington  (and indeed the nation) was dominated  by one figure during these years , Franklin D. Roosevelt . Hansell gradually  became an admirer of the President,  but only after the war began . Hansell did not like the New Deal because he thought it was socialism  and that it abandoned  his father's (and his own) Protestant  work ethic . In 1940 he supported Wendell Willkie, probably because the Democrat-turned- Republican  had promised  an independent  air force . But once FDR committed himself to the rapid expansion  of the Army Air Forces Hansell became, as usual, a team player .11 10 Parton, 115. 11 Haywood S. Hansell III, Griffith  Interview;  Hansell, Murray Green Interview.The social climate in Washington  was more stimulating than that at Leavenworth,  but Hansell still found time for his favorite  non-flying  pursuit, polo . Once at Fort Meyer Possum was engaged  in a heated polo match when his horse accidentally collided  with the horse ridden by Colonel George S. Patton, Jr., commander  of the 3rd Cavalry  Regiment . Patton furiously dismounted,  stopped the match and began to yell at Possum declaring  that he might be a good pilot but that he "wasn't worth a damn as a polo player ." Witnessing  this scene from the stands, Mrs. Hansell leaned over the rail and yelled, "You can't talk to my husband like that ! " Thus a thirty-seven ­ year-old  captain  and his wife brushed  shoulders  with a future 94  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 106 --- legend. 12 12 Mrs. Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., Griffith  Interview. 13 Hansell, Air Plan , 49.Even though the Air Corps was expanding  rapidly, General Arnold had his hands tied in terms of the essential  function of intelligence  gathering. As late as 1939 he was not privy to the G-2 reports of the War Department  General Staff unless he read the reports in the G-2 office. He was not allowed to remove the reports from the office. Arnold took his concer