o save downed B-29 crews. In light of these difficulties,  Hansell felt that he had not done badly at all.22 22 Hansell to Arnold, January 14, 1945, Record Group 18, File 201, National  Archives.Hansell  reminded  Arnold that with the approaching  capture of Iwo Jima the toughest  part of "our air war" was nearing its end. The capture of that small island would provide better air/sea  rescue, base defense, fighter  cover for the B-29s, and 296  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 308 --- much improved  weather  reports . "I have been dissatisfied  with the effectiveness  of our operations  and have put extremely heavy pressure  on the 73rd Wing to correct this deficiency. Nevertheless,  a glance at their accomplishments  so far as compared  with like operations  of the 58th Wing doesn't look too bad." In terms of numbers aircraft airborne on combat operations,  aborts, total bomb tonnage dropped, casualties, and other considerations  the 73rd Wing had compiled more favorable  statistics  on their first seven major missions  than had the 58th. In conclusion,  Hansell expressed  his regrets that Arnold had not fully considered  all the difficulties involved  in launching  B-29 strikes from the Marianas:  "I feel, on reflection,  that I have erred in not passing on to you my problems in more detail. I have felt that my first consideration  should have been to solve my problems  as best I could, rather than to send complaints  to you. Perhaps I have overdone this conception." Arnold passed the letter on to General Norstad; it is doubtful  if Arnold even read it.23 23 Ibid.Hansell completed  the difficult  final two weeks in the Marianas with typical grace and style. Toward the end he visited the crew of the "Joltin' Josie" on Saipan. He had a special gift for the crew chief, Master Sergeant Hancock. Hansell presented  the sergeant with a swagger stick with a stiletto inside, which had been a gift from a friend in the Royal Air Force. Major Catton and his crew choked