streets , but also caused absenteeism  and falling production in the city's war industries . Crowds stampeded during air raids on London and Paris , causing a number of deaths . These lessons seemed to teach that if the civilian population  were targeted on a massive scale , war production  would not be able to supply the army in the field. The population,  under intense air attack, could perhaps be driven to the point of civil disobedience thereby causing either the collapse of the government  or forcing the government  to sue for peace to prevent any such 20  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 32 --- collapse . The lessons were apparently  made more valid by the collapse of empires without invasion. Imperial Russia had been forced out of the war because  of an internal revolution brought on by worsening  war-time conditions. The Austrian Empire had also collapsed  without a single Allied soldier coming near Vienna. Finally, Imperial  Germany  had accepted  an armistice  even though no Allied soldiers  had yet reached the Rhine. All had collapsed,  to one degree or another, because their people could not or would not continue the war. Therefore, if bombers could carry the war directly to the people, a war might well end before an entire generation  of young men was sacrificed  in the trenches. 21 21 Kennett, Strategic  Bombing , 26, 52-56.Soon after the armistice,  the practitioners  of air war in the Great War became the prophets  of strategic  air war, should there be a second. The British, Italians,  and Americans  were the most vocal in the realm of air prophecy. First, they held that another war in the trenches was unacceptable  and that strategic air power was the solution. Secondly, they maintained  that an independent  air force, exclusive  of ground or naval command, was essential  to establishing  a strategic air force. Thirdly, they were certain that strategic air forces would always get through enemy defenses because no effective  means of stopping