tivated  woman and Possum was not considered  to be any catch for her, they were married in 1932.26 Once she had decided  to become Mrs. Hansell she seemed to be caught up in "something  [she] had no control over." After the wedding in Waco he and Dotta set out on their wedding  trip which would take them to New Orleans and then by steamer to Havana, Cuba, the Panama Canal , and California.  His first act as a new husband  was to get so drunk in New Orleans that he passed out at dinner , much to the embarrassment  of his bride . 54  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 66 --- Once at sea he caused further trouble by threatening  the ship's captain because of a change in schedule . She was not at all sure what she had gotten herself into, but the die was cast.27 27 Ibid. 28 Ibid.Being an officer in the United States Army in the 1930s carried with it a certain social status . Their first duty assignment  was at Maxwell Field at Montgomery,  Alabama . The married officer quarters there offered grand accommodations and even though Hansell  was only a second lieutenant,  he saw to it that his family had a housekeeper  and a cook . Hansell also insisted  on owning a pair of expensive  peel boots which cost a month's salary; he had to look his best on the polo field for the sake of his career. Like their British counterparts , American  Army officers  felt it was their social prerogative  to practice  the equestrian  arts in their off duty hours . Even though the Hansells  were able to scrape enough together to live the life of the officer class , they were often short of cash. One weekend when the cook was off the Hansells  had company  and decided  to go out for hamburgers , but in an age when a hamburger  cost only five cents there were not three nickels to be found in the Hansell household. 28 In Mrs. Hansell's eyes her husband's  priorities  were clear: the Air Corps came first, polo came second, and she ran a distant third. Soon after the birth of their first chil