t. "A 241  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 253 --- group historical  officer reported that as the huge bomber swept in with its fighter escort, 'a great cheer went up, and all work stopped as men shaded their eyes to watch the plane pass over . . . the thrill that went through all was almost electric in effect.'" 15 When the "Joltin' Josie" came to a halt and the crew was welcomed  by the crowd Hansell was asked to say a few words for the newsreel camera . Taken by surprise, he said, "The first elements of the XXI Bomber Command  have arrived  and when we've done some more fighting  we do some more talking ." When he realized  that he had stolen those words from Ira Eaker, Hansell sent a cable to Baker's headquarters  in Europe to apologize .16 15 Craven and Cate, V, 546. 16 Ibid, 546, 548; "Target Hiroshima"  from "The Twentieth Century  with Walter Cronkite, " (CBS) , n.d.Hansell was welcomed  not only by the military  personnel on the island. Tokyo Rose broadcast  a welcome to "General Possum Hansell " over the Japanese  radio network. Hansell had not even told his wife where he was going and wondered  how the Japanese  had found out so quickly. The Japanese, of course, had a serious interest in Hansell and his bomber force . Colonel Richard  Carmichel,  a B-29 group commander  from the XX Bomber Command  in China had been shot down and captured  by the Japanese . Carmichel  did not know Hansell personally  and knew very little about the general, but the Japanese beat and interrogated  him for days in order to find out why Hansell  was 242  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 254 --- called "Possum. "Fortunately,  the Japanese finally decided that he knew nothing about Hansell and halted the torture. 17 17 Hansell, Japan , 34. 18 Ibid, 49; Craven and Cate, V, 547-548.One of Hansell's  first tasks was to secure an aide. When asked the qualifications,  Hansell listed intelligent,  alert, hardworking, good humored, tolerant, and courteous. Lieutenant  Ra