ir Plan , 88. 49 Craven and Cate, 1, 148. 50 AWPD-1, Tab 1.According  to the President's  instructions,  numbers of aircraft  were basically  what he required. George's  AWPD went further, however, to produce  an incredibly  detailed  plan as to how these planes and personnel  would be deployed  against the Axis. They could not afford to allow the Army and Navy to set the air priorities  because, as Craven and Cate state: "It is apparent,  however, that the air planners  were less interested in the problems of the defensive in the Americas and the Pacific than in the war in Europe." 49 In fact, the most important air mission listed in AWPD-1 was "To wage a sustained air offensive  against German military  power." 50 Ill  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 123 --- AWPD-1 was centered around the strategic bombing of Germany  and the attention  given to the numbers indicates  that the planners devoted almost their entire attention  to that task. In World War I air planners had ignored such Clausewitzian  frictions as weather, mechanical  problems, attrition rates, and replacement  requirements. The AWPD developed  an elaborate  system to determine  as accurately  as possible  just what size force they would need in the strategic campaign. Based on British climatological  records the planners determined  that the strategic bomber force could count on only five operational  days per month. They estimated the number of aborts due to mechanical  failure and determined the aircraft replacement  rate. The critical estimate was, however, how many bombers would be required  to knock Germany out of the war. The planners  estimated  that it would require 220 bombs to destroy a target 100 feet square. For planning purposes  they assumed that a bomber would carry only a single bomb. Each group would include seventy  aircraft  of which only thirty six would be available  for a given mission. Under normal conditions  it would take six groups to destroy a target, but when the es