File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 1 --- INFORMATION  TO USERS This manuscript  has been  reproduced  from  the microfilm  master.  UMI films  the text directly  from  the original  or copy  submitted.  Thus,  some thesis  and dissertation  copies  are in typewriter  face, while  others  may be from  any type of computer  printer. The quality  of this reproduction  is dependent  upon  the quality  of the copy submitted.  Broken  or indistinct  print,  colored  or poor  quality illustrations  and photographs,  print  bleedthrough,  substandard  margins, and improper  alignment  can adversely  affect  reproduction. In the unlikely  event  that the author  did not send UMI  a complete manuscript  and there  are missing  pages,  these  will be noted. Also,  if unauthorized  copyright  material  had to be removed,  a note  will indicate the deletion. Oversize  materials  (e.g^ maps,  drawings,  charts)  are reproduced  by sectioning  the original,  beginning  at the upper  left-hand  comer  and continuing  from  left to right  in equal  sections  with  small  overlaps.  Each original  is also photographed  in one exposure  and is included  in reduced  form  at the back  of the book. Photographs  included  in the original  manuscript  have  been  reproduced xerographically  in this copy. Higher  quality  6" x 9" black  and white photographic  prints  are available  for any photographs  or illustrations appearing  in this copy  for an additional  charge. Contact  UMI  directly to order. UMI A Bell & Howell  Information  Company 300 North  Zeeb  Road.  Ann  Arbor.  MI 48106-1346  USA 313/761-4700  800/521-0600  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 3 --- THE QUEST: HAYWOOD HANSELL AND AMERICAN STRATEGIC  BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II A Dissertation Presented  for the Doctor of Philosophy Degree The University  of Tennessee,  Knoxville Charles R. Griffith December  1994  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 4 --- UMI Number  : 9527204 Copyright  1994 by Griffith,  Charle