umbered, and kept under tight security. Barely meeting the deadline,  AWPD-1 was deposited with the War Department  General Staff at midnight of August 12, 1941.83 Finally submitting  the plan must have given the four men a tremendous sense of relief. Hansell later described  the experience  : It is far beyond my ability  to adequately describe  the frustrations,  disappoint ­ ments, fragile hopes, determination,  and soaring zeal that were mixed in the cauldron to make AWPD-1 and the plans 125  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 137 --- modifying it. The frantic efforts to meet deadlines, the disagreements,  the uphill fight against entrenched and hostile opinion, the dedicated  crusade for the new role of air power, the slumbering  dread that we might be wrong - - that we might persuade  our leaders to take a path that would lead to disaster  - - put a heavy burden on all of us.84 84 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 112. 85 Hansell, Air Plan , 89. 86 Ibid; Hansell, Murray Green Interview. 87 Hansell, Murray Green Interview.Even after AWPD-1 was submitted,  there was certainly  no guarantee  that it would be accepted  since it would mean that the War Department  would have to abandon or seriously  modify its doctrine concerning  Army aviation. Since the proposal came from a subordinate  element of the Army, Hansell imagined that the War Department  General Staff would consider  it "brash beyond belief." 85 The time constraint  was placed upon the WDGS as well and since they were very busy putting together the "Artillery  Annex, " "Cavalry  Annex, " "Medical  Annex, " and on and on, they passed the "Air Annex" without comment . In fact Hansell suspected  that the WDGS was actually  unaware of just what George's  team had written into the plan.86 87 Hansell later commented, "They [the WDGS] were so busy trying to complete the rest of it themselves  [, ] I think if we had gotten it in earlier, it probably would have been thrown out. 1,87 Hal George realized  the impo