so important  to note that poison gas would be used from the outset; Douhet's strategy did not allow for threats or posturing  before his most deadly card was played. 32 31 Douhet, 58. 32 Ibid, 58-59.Douhet based his view of strategic  air war, of course, on the experiences  of the Great War. He had read newspaper accounts of the panic in London and could cite many other examples of the effects of aerial bombardment  on a civilian population:  "The reader who thinks I have over colored the picture  has only to recall the panic created  at Brescia  when, during funeral services  for the victims of an earlier  bombing — a negligible  one compared  with the one I have pictured  here -- one of the mourners  mistook a bird for an enemy plane." 33 Brigadier  General Billy Mitchell,  the American  air power advocate, had commanded  the largest single air operation  of 33 Ibid. 26  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 38 --- the First World War when he directed nearly 1,500 combat aircraft in the St. Mihiel Offensive in 1918. This operational  experience  gave Mitchell  a better understanding  of the existing  technology  than Douhet . He had more respect for antiaircraft  artillery and knew that efficient pursuit aircraft  patrols  could indeed intercept  and blunt air attacks . Mitchell  would make his impact not through original  ideas but through his advocacy of the ideas of others which were reinforced by  his own experiences .34 34 Weigley, The American  Way of War, 224-227. 35 Hansell, The Strategic Air War, 4-5; Weigley, The American  Wav of War, 226; Sherry, Rise , 18-19.During the war Mitchell  had been exposed to the ideas of Trenchard , Caproni , and Douhet . It is difficult,  however , to determine just how much influence each had on him. From Trenchard  it is probable  that Mitchell  developed  his advocacy for an independent  air force which could mass its power and be deployed offensively. He had a respect for the concept of striking at an enemy's vital c