y, Hap, 335. 35 Ibid. 36 Curtis LeMay and Bill Yenne, Super Fortress , (New York: Berkley  Books , 1988), 70-71.The Chinese were scheduled  to have the air fields ready by April 15, 1944, but there were still fifty-four  major modifications  to be made on the B-29 and they were sitting in the snow outside the aircraft factories  in Kansas . Arnold suddenly appeared on the scene in Kansas , surveyed the situation  and placed  Major General  Bennett  E. "Benney"  Meyers , the chief of USAAF procurement , in command  of what has come to be known as the "Battle of Kansas . " Knowing that Arnold meant business , Bennett spent five weeks working with the aircraft firms, begging , threatening , sweet-talking,  and doing whatever else would get the job done. Work went on day and night until the first B-29 unit was ready to depart for India on March 26.36 General  Arnold's  reasons for placing  such a high priority 212  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 224 --- on B-29 operations  from China were political. First of all, President  Roosevelt  expected  bombing  operations  from China and the B-29 was the only aircraft capable of such a mission. Secondly, Arnold had staked his reputation  and the possible future of an independent  Air Force on this "three-billion- dollar gamble. " A bomber force which was not operational  was useless and the last thing he wanted was for the war to end before the B-29 could prove its worth and the value of an independent  air arm. So in spite of the mechanical, logistical, and geographical  problems associated with operating  the untried  B-29 out of China, Arnold expected  B-29 operations  to commence  on schedule. Hansell, on the other hand, saw B-29 operations  against Japan as a second chance to prove the strategic  air theory that he and his colleagues  had formulated  at the Air Corps Tactical  School in the 1930s. Here was an opportunity  to use a much-improved  bombing  aircraft  in a theater  where he had the opportunity  of avo