" But Giles did not think he could. Neither, according to Giles, did Kuter . Giles certainly  considered  Hansell to be an excellent  staff officer, but he did not think he had the temperament  to be an operational  commander . Yet, Giles's biggest concern  was that Hansell would not set up successful  operations  fast enough to please Arnold. 2 2 Giles, Green Interview. 3 Coffey, Hap, 336, 354-355; Hansell, Green Interview, April 19, 1967, USAFA.Hansell assumed command of the XXI Bomber Command at Colorado  Springs , Colorado, on August 28, 1944. Ultimately, the command was to consist of the 73rd, 313th, 314th, and 315th Bombardment  Wings . For initial operations  from the Marianas , however , Hansell had only the 73rd Wing, with the others to follow as soon as facilities  were available . The commander  of the 73rd was Brigadier  General Emmett "Rosie" O'Donnell,  a veteran of the Far Eastern Air Force during the discouraging  battles in the Philippines  immediately  following Pearl Harbor . He was a tough, Brooklyn-born  graduate  of West Point, where he had coached football . O'Donnell  was also one of the few Air Force officers  who felt free to speak his mind to General Arnold. 3 The 73rd Wing has originally  intended for service with the XX Bomber Command  in China and had been trained to conduct night operations,  bombing by radar . Hansell , naturally, 236  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 248 --- wanted a daylight,  precision  outfit . In September  he ordered the conversion  of the 73rd to daylight  tactics and established a tactical doctrine, including a standard formation. Opposition  from the men of the 73rd to this change was severe, but Hansell insisted  on intensive  training. The pressure  to commit the XXI Bomber Command was already becoming intense, but he refused to budge from his insistence on daylight ,precision bombing. 4 4 Hansell, Japan , 32. 5 Ibid, 33.The B-29s were still subject  to mechanical  failures  since the aircraft was so