r forces existed  to carry out Army missions . Just like field artillery  or the engineers , the Air Force might be relegated  to simply supporting  the infantry. The fact that George and his team were writing the "Air Annex " meant that for the first time the Air Force mission would be determined 106  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 118 --- by airmen. 36 36 Hansell, Air Plan , 2-3, 63-67. 37 Craven and Cate, 1, 146; Hansell , Air Plan , 69-70; Hansell , Hopper Interview. 38 Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., "General Laurence S. Kuter 1905-1979,"  (Aerospace  Historian , June 1980), 92.On Monday, August 4, 1941, George assembled  his team with no time to spare . Each of these four men had served together at Maxwell field and had taught at ACTS . To a man, they believed  that strategic  bombing  could win the war and now they had the chance to draft a plan which could put the principles they had taught into practice . George assumed direction  of the project  himself . Larry Kuter , who was on loan from the G-3 (operations)  Division  of the General Staff Corps , concentrated on calculating  the forces necessary  to meet the mission . Ken Walker was the expert on probabilities  of bombing accuracy. Having just returned  from England  as America's  foremost  expert on targeting,  Hansell began the difficult,  delicate, and key job of target selection. 37 The success of the plan was dependent  upon the team, and, as Hansell later reflected: "Actually  the plan was the fruit of seven years of working together, rather than seven days...Without our previous service together on the faculty of the Air Corps Tactical School it would have been quite impossible  to produce a plan of this magnitude  in so brief a period." 38 Hansell had just returned from England when he immediately  became immersed  in the writing of AWPD-1. Mrs. 107  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 119 --- Hansell , now eight months pregnant , could not understand  what Possum was doing that was so imp