era bulbs made the scene resemble a Hollywood  premier, not a bombing mission . Just as the fully-loaded  bombers were about to start down the single runway the wind changed  direction. For the mission to be flown each airplane  would have to be turned one hundred  and eighty degrees . Isley Field was so crowded that if that were 269  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 281 --- accomplished,  there would not have been sufficient  time for the mission. Hansell was forced to scrub the operation  -- a painful anti-climax. 67 67 Craven and Cate, V, 558; Hansell, Japan , 38. 68 Hansell, Japan , 39; Hansell to Arnold, November 22, 1944, Record Group 18, File 201, National  Archives;  Craven and Cate, V, 558.Hansell's  decision  was quite fortunate,  because  a typhoon was hitting the island and if the bombers had been able to leave the field, they certainly would not have been able to land on it upon return. For seven agonizing  days the B-29s sat in the mud, fully loaded as the typhoon moved north, obscuring  the targets in Japan. Hansell wrote General Arnold on November  22 that for the fifth time he had called off the raid on Tokyo. The stress on Hansell was evident in the letter as he expresses  his fears that the weather delays must sound like mere excuses to Arnold and later admits being distressed  over the loss of an F-13 the previous  night. The delay was, however, beneficial  because it gave Hansell a chance to build up his force with newly-arrived  B-29s. 68 O'Donnell  had requested  some changes in the operational plan and Hansell agreed. The original plan called for two initial points at opposite sides of the target with two bombing runs converging  the Musashino  plant to confuse enemy defenses. O'Donnell's  plan called for a single axis of attack. The primary objective  was the Nakajima-Musashino aircraft complex, the secondary target was the docking 270  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 282 --- facilities  of Tokyo , and the target of last resor