l III, Griffith Interview; Mrs. Haywood S. Hansell , Jr., Griffith  Interview;  Dennett Hansell , Griffith  Interview.Upon their return to the United States the Hansells  were fortunate to serve at Army posts in their native Georgia. First at Fort McPherson and later at Fort Benning young Haywood  got a thorough  introduction  to routine  Army life with its monotony  and red tape. Even though his father had the highest expectations  for him, his school work did not measure up. Once his father was tutoring  him at the dining room table and young Haywood's attention was diverted by an ant, prompting  his father to strike him on the back of the head so hard that the impact on the table cut his chin . In obvious disappointment  with his son's lack of discipline,  Captain Hansell decided to send his son away to the family's ranch along the Gila River in New Mexico to grow up as a proper Hansell should .8 Southwest  New Mexico at the turn of the century still offered the flavor of the old West . The Hansell ranch was nothing fancy, with a couple of cow hands and a dozen horses located  in scrub and desert country . Captain  Hansell  provided 43  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 55 --- a tutor for the youngster  hoping to improve his academic performance . Young Haywood took an immediate  liking to his tutor, a man living in New Mexico because he suffered from tuberculosis,  and their relationship  grew into lifetime admiration. Yet he learned more than mathematics  and the classics on the ranch. His lessons included roping and rounding  up cattle, living in a bunkhouse,  and shooting. Even though he accidentally  shot himself in the foot with the pistol he wore on his hip, young Haywood thrived in this new adventurous  setting and he drifted  even further away from his school work. Perhaps the most important  lesson he learned  was horsemanship. He served as a wrangler on a surveying expedition  and developed  a love for horses which would serve him well in later A