he Hansell family was stationed in Peking , China, where Lieutenant  Hansell served in his capacity  as an Army doctor. Mrs. Hansell kept a diary of their Chinese experiences  and recorded  a very memorable  visit with the Dowager  Empress  Tz ' u- hsi. Apparently  Lieutenant  Hansell  had ingratiated  himself to the imperial  household by treating  a royal family member who had become ill. As a reward for this act of kindness (and as an indication  that the Empress wanted to maintain good relations with the Westerners  after the disastrous  Boxer Rebellion)  Mrs. Hansell was allowed to present young Haywood before the Empress . The imperial court made a great deal of fuss over the child, with the Empress declaring  that the child was the most beautiful  baby she had ever seen. Even though young Haywood would not remember the experience,  living in China would be an important  part of his childhood. His first words were Chinese learned from the house servants and when the Hansells left Peking the Dowager gave them a chest from her palace as a gift. 6 6 Ibid.The family's next duty station was in the Philippines where Young Haywood quickly forgot his Chinese , but soon picked up Spanish from the Filipino  house servants . Toward the end of their tour in the islands, young Haywood had an important  experience  which he later recalled: "In 1912 I got my first glimpse of an airplane . I was standing on the 42  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 54 --- fairgrounds  of the annual carnival in Manila, Philippine Islands , when a biplane beat its slow pace across the sky. An aged Filipino standing nearby said, in astonishment , ';Muy grande Polio! ' or 'Very large chicken  !' As a boy of nine I was in full agreement ."7 7 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, vii. 8 Haywood S. Hansell III, Griffith Interview; Mrs. Haywood S. Hansell , Jr., Griffith  Interview;  Dennett Hansell , Griffith  Interview.Upon their return to the United States the Hansells  were fortunate to serve at Ar