y, The American  Way of War: A History  of United States Military Strategy and Policy , (Bloomington  : Indiana University  Press, 1981), 226. 26 Sherry, Rise , 27-28; Maclsaac,  "Voices from the Central Blue," 630; Schaffer,  Wings , 21-23. 27 Giulio Douhet, The Command of the Air, (Washington: Office of Air Force History, 1942), 15; Weigley, The American Wav of War, 227.Based on the experience  of the First World War, there could be no successful  surface offensive,  either on the land or sea. If a decisive  battle could be fought, it would have to be through strategic  air power. Modern warfare, by its very nature, could no longer accept the distinction  between combatant  and noncombatant.  The civilian  in the war factory was as much responsible  for making war as the soldier in the trenches. Therefore,  he or she was not only an acceptable target; they were the preferred  targets. The attack on the civilian  centers would be carried out by an independent  air force, which would make war without mercy upon civilians  in order to end the war decisively  with far fewer casualties  than had been seen in the First World War.26 Douhet, of course, knew nothing of radar and his experiences  in the war had taught him that antiaircraft artillery  was mostly ineffective. "No fortifications  can possibly  offset these new weapons [Douhet  declared] , which can strike mortal blows into the heart of the enemy with lighting speed." 27 Pursuit aircraft were of no value according to 24  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 36 --- Douhet . He maintained  that firepower  was far more important than speed, believing  that the former could always overcome the latter. He advocated  the creation  of the battle plane, essentially  a bombing  aircraft  with enough defensive  armament to carry an attacker  safely over enemy territory. In fact, Douhet felt that defensive  armament on his battle plane was chiefly for the morale of the air crews , not to defend them from any real threa