however , surrounded  production  capacity,  but the Air Materiel  Command had provided  facts and figures to rebut most of the criticism. 93 93 Ibid. 94 Ibid, 96. 95 Mrs. Haywood 5. Hansell, Jr., Griffith  Interview.Finally, on September 11, 1941, the team briefed Secretary  of War Henry L. Stimson. This was an informal briefing held in Mr. Stimson's office with only General Marshall present . Having had a private meeting with Hal George before the actual meeting, the Secretary  was already sold on the plan. His response all but guaranteed presidential  approval : "General Marshall  and I like the Plan. I want you gentlemen  to be prepared to present it to the President . I will speak to him about the date. Thank you for coming to my office." 94 September 11 turned out to be a particularly  important day in the life of Major Haywood Hansell . The plan for which he had prepared  for years became a reality, and his son, Dennett, was born.95 On September  25, 1941, Secretary  of War Stimson  forwarded 129  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 141 --- the "Victory  Program, " which included  the "Air Annex " or AWPD- I, to the President . At that same time isolationist  Senator Burton K. Wheeler of Montana obtained  a copy of the Victory Program. According to Wheeler, he was approached  by an unnamed  Army captain  who was concerned  at the accelerated  pace of preparations  for war and brought him an actual copy of the still-secret  "Victory Program ." The Senator was angered by the activist stance the President  and the military  had taken and felt that it was his duty to reveal the plan to the people . He showed his copy to correspondent  Chesly Manly of the Chicago  Daily Tribune . On December  4, 1941, the headlines of the Tribune proclaimed  the existence of a war plan.96 Hansell was shocked to see, "Much of the secret information  I had gathered in England was spread before the world in the pages of a newspaper , "97 96 Hansell, Air Plan , 96 ; Burton K. Whee