ted, "They [the WDGS] were so busy trying to complete the rest of it themselves  [, ] I think if we had gotten it in earlier, it probably would have been thrown out. 1,87 Hal George realized  the importance  of selling  the plan to 126  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 138 --- his superiors , so he had his team prepare a highly-polished presentation.  The presentation  was memorized  after hours of editing and  practice . No notes were used, only charts  ; each member of the group literally  memorized  all the facts and figures necessary  to make his point . Hal George introduced the presentation.  Hansell gave the intelligence  analysis  and summary  of targets . Kuter then explained  the force necessary to achieve the objectives,  and Walker described the base requirements . George then concluded the presentation  by taking questions . They practiced and polished the presentation  until it was ready for its first live audience .88 88 Hansell, Air Plan , 81; Hansell, Hopper Interview. 89 Hansell, Air Plan , 90; Gaston, 80-82.The first formal presentation  was to Brigadier  General Twaddle, G-3 (operations ) of the War Department  General Staff . General Twaddle and several members of his staff met with the AWPD in George's extemporized  war room in the Munitions Building . The presentation  took two hours and went very well . At least, Twaddle accepted it graciously  enough . Perhaps the most important  aspect of the meeting is that it helped the AWPD work out any bugs and polish their delivery. 89 Two days after presenting  the plan to General Twaddle, George's team gave their presentation  to General Leonard Gerow , head of the War Plans Division  of the War Department General Staff, and Under Secretary  of War for Air Robert A. 127  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 139 --- Lovett . Lovett was sympathetic  to the plan, yet they had some apprehension  about Gerow. But, as Hansell put it, "General Gerow showed himself to be a broad-minded,  intelligen