rned  to Washington  with Arnold, but was back in London in October. By this time it was probably  obvious to Hansell that his future was no longer in the European Theater of Operations . In an interview  given to the Eighth Air Force historian at Norfolk House on October 5, 1943, Hansell responded  to a question about his present assignment:  "Air Marshal Leigh-Mallory  has been selected as the Allied Air Commander  and I am Deputy Commander . However , these things change so rapidly -- when you get into this sphere, so many political  angles to it, and so forth, that it may be all washed out."14 General Arnold was absorbed with the B-29 project back in Washington and was having difficulty explaining  to President  Roosevelt  why he was slow in deploying the aircraft  in China. What he needed was an expert planner with combat experience  and diplomatic  skills . In October Hansell returned  to Washington  and was assigned  as chief of the Combined  and Joint Staff Division  of Army Air Force Plans. Hansell's  attentions  now turned toward Japan. 15 14 Hansell, Hopper Interview. 15 Coffey, Hap, 334-335; Frutrell, 145.Hansell did not disappoint  Arnold. When he took his seat on the Joint Plans Committee  he immediately  had an objection to a statement  he found in the proposed  Joint War Plan against Japan . It read, "... it has been clearly demonstrated  in the 202  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 214 --- 203 war in Europe that strategic air forces are incapable of decisive  action and hence the war against Japan must rely upon victory  through  surface forces, supported  appropriately  by air forces . Final victory must come through invasion of the Japanese home islands." 16 It was clear that the Air Force had had no advocate  on the committee . Hansell at once took up the challenge and, as he later remembered, with much difficulty succeed in amending the statement of basic strategy. The new description  of the grand strategy  against Japan read : "The poss