Army Air Forces, October 1945), 139, LeMay Papers, Box B-39, Library of Congress.General Arnold had requested that the Committee of Operations  Analysts draw up target lists for MATTERHORN anyway. When the subject  was again presented  before the Joint Planners  on November  9, 1943, they were not prepared  to accept it without further study, but did instruct  Hansell to request that the Joint Chiefs secure approval  of the construction  of the desired bases in the event the plan became a reality. That decision  would be made in a matter of days at the Cairo Conference .19 On November 11, 1943, Haywood Hansell began a circumnavigation  of the globe which would bring him into contact  with world leaders at the highest level. On that day the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral  King, General  Marshall,  and General Arnold boarded the U.S.S. Iowa . Along with Arnold 204  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 216 --- came Brigadier  Generals  Kuter , Hansell , and Emmett O'Donnell. That evening this most illustrious  company  enjoyed  the movie, "Stage Door Canteen," but their thoughts were certainly  on much weightier  matters. The next day, November 12, the presidential  yacht delivered President Roosevelt, Admiral Leahy, Harry Hopkins, and others to the Iowa . The trip would take them to the Cairo and Tehran Conferences. After the initial excitement  surrounding  the near torpedoing  of the President's  battleship by one of the U.S. Navy's own destroyers  died down, this group had the opportunity  to engage in serious discussions  about MATTERHORN  in a more informal setting. Hansell later recalled  his satisfaction  in learning that Marshall was actually an advocate of air power. On November  20 they arrived  at Oran and then flew on to Tunis and from there to Cairo, arriving  on November  22.20 20 Coffey, Hap, 325-326; Arnold Diary, Arnold Papers, Container  272, Library  of Congress;  Thomas B. Buell, Master of Sea Power , (Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 1980), 4