rather he was won over by the bombardment  advocates . The year 71  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 83 --- as a student  at ACTS transformed  Hansell from "Pursuit Possum" into a true advocate  of bombardment  aviation. Five officers were responsible  for the conversion. Colonel John F. Curry, the commandant  of the school, impressed Hansell as did Lieutenant  Colonel Harold George and Captain Robert Webster. Major Donald Wilson and 1st Lieutenant  Kenneth  Walker also had a vicarious  impact on Hansell . Even though both had left the faculty at the end of the previous  year, their influence  and writings were still important . It was these five men who guided Hansell in the development  of his views on strategic bombing .S1 61 Ibid, 57, 58. 62 Crane , Bombs, Cities, and Civilians , 19.Historian  Conrad Crane explained  the two prerequisites for creating  new military  doctrine  : "First, higher authorities must realize the need for change and support new ideas . Second a small and creative group of thinkers must work together to synthesize  a body of thought expressing  a new approach to war,"61 62 The General Staff certainly  had not realized  the need for a new air doctrine, but Colonel Curry both realized the need and had the means of providing a setting for the formulation of air doctrine without interference  from Washington.  In 1933-34 Curry had organized the academic program into three departments  : Air Tactics, Ground Tactics, and Basic and Special Instruction. Air Tactics, naturally,  received  the most attention  with emphasis 72  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 84 --- on attack, bombardment , pursuit, and observation  aviation. Hansell later characterized  Curry as a "stalwart leader  "..."who should be listed among the best." 63 63 Ibid; Haywood  S. Hansell, Jr., "Harold  George: Apostle of Air Power, " in Makers of the United States Air Force ed. John L. Frisbee, (New York: International  Defense Publishers, Inc., 1989), 76-77; Hansel