ntense, but he refused to budge from his insistence on daylight ,precision bombing. 4 4 Hansell, Japan , 32. 5 Ibid, 33.The B-29s were still subject  to mechanical  failures  since the aircraft was so new, complex, and untested. Engine problems  were solved by making modifications  to the exhaust valves. The gunners' bubbles iced over at altitude,  but this was solved by fitting the bubbles  with hot air hoses. Most of the mechanical  problems  demanded  the attention  of Hansell and work went on at a furious pace, with most of the problems solved only at the eleventh  hour. 5 The bombers  had no practice  in formation  flying. Hansell directed  that tests be conducted  in which the B-29s fly from their bases in Kansas to Havana, Cuba, roughly the distance from the Marianas to Tokyo . The training stressed takeoff, assembly,  rendezvous,  formation  flying, and simulated  frontal weather  penetration.  The main result of the training  missions was that B-29s were scattered  all over the Gulf States. It was clear that the bomber crews would have to complete  their 237  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 249 --- training  in the Marianas , because there simply was not enough time and the pressure to deploy the XXI Bomber Command increased. 6 6 Ibid, 170-171; Coffey, Hap, 355. 7 E. Bartlett  Kerr, Flames Over Tokyo  : The U.S. Army Air Forces' Incendiary  Campaign Against Japan 1944-1945 , (New York: Donald I. Fine, Inc., 1991), 90. 8 Hansell, Green Interview,  January 2, 1970, USAFA.In September 1944 Hansell reported to Washington  for final instructions  before departing  for the Marianas . Arnold was clear in his expectations  of Hansell's  command: "I know that you, in your position  as commander  of one of our great striking forces, will do your utmost to help accomplish  the earliest  possible  defeat of Japan. This can only be done by making the best possible  use of the weapon at your disposal." 7 Then Hansell later recalled  a brief courtesy  call on Gene