of training was evident in this daylight , precision bombing attack. There was a severe need for high-altitude formation practice; the rendezvous,  gunnery, and bombing (visual and radar ) were deficient . Four of the ninety-seven B-29s were lost on the way home and others were scattered  all over Asia . Wolfe was probably  thankful that credit for the raid was mistakenly  given to B-24s.60 On June 6, 1944, Arnold's headquarters  (Hansell) requested  a maximum  effort raid to be conducted  against Japan 228  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 240 --- on or before June 15, D-Day for the Saipan invasion. Wolfe replied  that he could only deploy approximately  fifty aircraft on the June 15. Arnold wanted at least seventy aircraft airborne  and would not accept a smaller number. Hansell had preferred  a daylight  attack on the coke facilities  at Anshan in Manchuria  because  he believed  it to be more vulnerable,  but the Imperial Iron and Steel Works at Yawata, Japan, was selected  as the target . Following  the poor performance  in daylight  over Bangkok,  Wolfe wanted a night mission  to provide protection  from Japanese fighters and anti-aircraft  fire . Hansell agreed, but would continue to insist on daylight attacks .61 61 Craven and Cate, V, 98-99; Wilbur Morrison, Point of No Return: The Story of the 20th Air Force , (New York, 1979), 66.The attack on Yawata on the island of Kyushu came on the evening of June 14 and 15, 1944. Seventy-five  B-29s were dispatched,  sixty-eight  were airborne,  and forty-seven  made it over the target . Japanese resistance  was light, but six aircraft  were lost . Two were lost due to enemy action; two crashed on take off; two crashed in unoccupied  China, and two were unaccounted  for. The bomb damage had been unimportant , but the world finally knew of the existence  of the Twentieth Air Force . Wolfe and Hansell got substantial  press coverage following  the first bomber attack on Japan since the famous Doolittle  Raid. Wh