e continued,  "I believe the best way to correct this problem is to reindoctrinate  and reeducate  the lead crews." Graduates  of the school would wear distinctive  insignia to boost their morale .79 In a letter dated December 7, 1944, Norstad sent a supportive  letter to Hansell  : "You and Ramey have done a really professional  job of your first operation  and I am proud of you." In reference to General Arnold, Norstad knew Hansell's  fears and addressed  them: "I knew you would worry about the Chief's feelings  at that time [SAN ANTONIO I] since 276  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 288 --- you know him well enough to realize that he would be very much keyed up until the first show was over . He was impatient,  but his impatience  was directed against circumstances  and not against you. You were not 'on the pan' at any time." After the fourth and fifth postponement  Arnold was disturbed,  but when Norstad  had indicated  that it was not a good idea to put the heat on Hansell  under the circumstances,  "He replied, 'Who said anything  about putting the heat on Fossum?,  ' in a rather irritated  manner . I hope you will accept the fact that you had, and have, the full support of all us back here." 80 80 Norstad  to Hansell, December  7, 1944, Record Group 18, File 373.2, National  Archives .Norstad then gave Hansell two important  hints as to how he could please Arnold. First, Hansell had written a fairly detailed  letter to Arnold explaining  the delays in SAN ANTONIO I and many other detailed  aspects of his operations . Norstad cautioned  against sending  such a letter in the future  : "...the Boss likes to get letters . Don't make them too long; don't talk about minor troubles  or problems . I would suggest that you send him a personal  letter at least once every two weeks and include therein one or two interesting  points that he can get his teeth into and perhaps take up at the Chief of Staff's meeting.  " It was obvious that Arnold had been too involv