e . In 1949 the Peruvian government nationalized  the airline and the Hansells  were flown back to Savanna , Georgia, by the Peruvians  in the back of a surplus C- 47 transport . He then secured  a position  as vice-president  of the South Atlantic  Gas Company from 1949 to 1952 . During the Korean War Hansell was called back to active duty in Washington  and promoted  to major general . He served as chief of the Military  Assistance  Program  and later as the Air Force representative  on the Weapons Systems Evaluation  Group , working for the office of the Assistant  Secretary  of Defense for Research  and Development . In 1955 Hansell again retired, this time at the rank of major general .55 56 55 Arnold to Hansell, February 1, 1945, Hansell Papers (Microfilm  Edition) , AFHRC , Maxwell AFB; Major General Ralph Cousins to Hansell , June 25, 1945, Hansell Papers (Microfilm Edition) , AFHRC, Maxwell  AFB; General Carl Spaatz to Hansell , January 9, 1947, Hansell Papers (Microfilm  Edition) , AFHRC; Sergeant Ben Sunday to Hansell, September  21, 1945, Hansell Papers (Microfilm  Edition),  AFHRC, Maxwell AFB. 56 Haywood  Hansell III, Griffith  Interview;  Mrs. Haywood 5. Hansell, Jr., Griffith  Interview.Hansell remained  in the defense industry  as an official of the General Electric  Company  in Europe . He and Dotta lived 315  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 327 --- in the Netherlands  until his retirement  in 1966. The Hansells moved to Hilton Head, South Carolina,  where Possum enjoyed  his retirement  and reflected  on his career and the role of air power . He wrote three books and a number of articles  during this period. He was also a member of the exclusive  Madeira Club in Savannah . The club was begun in the early 1950s and was dedicated to Madeira wine, good food, and, most importantly,  intellectual  stimulation.  The members  would take turns preparing  and delivering  a scholarly  paper , which was open to critique  afterwards . Hansell gave his