es  at ACTS had only dreamed of less than a decade before . 44 44 Hansell , Green Interview,  January 2, 1970. 45 Hansell , Japan , 153.It was important  to establish  underlying  principles  which could justify the creation of an independent  strategic  air force in the eyes of the JCS. Unity of command was a cherished  concept in the American  military. The Army utilized geographic  control over its units, while the Navy utilized  a control over major naval units that transcended  geography . Hansell realized  that his concept more closely resembled  the Navy's version. This was a fortunate circumstance  since Admiral King would probably be the most difficult to convince .45 Hansell wasted no time in approaching  Admiral King, because he knew that if a decision  was not reached soon his plan could be replaced  by one that would destroy all he had worked for. Even with General Arnold's approval , it took 219  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 231 --- courage for a Brigadier  General from a rival branch of the service to approach  the Chief of Naval Operations  with such a far-reaching  proposal . Hansell later gave his account of the meeting  : The manner in which this important agreement was reached seems almost trivial . I secured General Arnold's permission  to discuss the subject with Admiral King . I found Admiral King and General Arnold walking down a corridor leading to the JCS conference  room. I asked Admiral King if I might have a word with him. I described briefly the problem of concentrated  command and control of the long-range  bombers which would be attacking common targets in Japan but would be operating  from bases under the command of several separate theater commanders . I suggested a similarity  with the problems  attendant  on control of the US Fleet...Would it not be sensible to concentrate  the very long- range bombers in a strategic  air force under General Arnold. .. . ? Under this arrangement , the B-29s would actually fall under the