erner stuff" and maintained  the strategic  course which had been set at the 209  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 221 --- beginning  of the war. On December  16 Marshall and his party returned  to Port Moresby  and the next day departed for Hawaii via Guadalcanal . After a weather delay in California, Marshall  and his party arrived  back in Washington  on December 22.29 29 Ibid; Kenney, 334; Pogue , 324. 30 Sherry, Rise , 181-182; Coffey, Hap, 256.Upon his return , Hansell was appointed  Deputy Chief of the Air Staff . Hansell had been long associated  with General Arnold, but this new position  placed him in daily contact  with the hard-driving  commanding  general of the Army Air Forces . Arnold's  nickname  was "Hap" because of his perpetual  smile, but this permanent facial fixture belied this true temperament . He has been described  as ruthless  and capricious and drove himself so hard that he suffered  four heart attacks during the war. He met with his staff every morning , seven days a week. One Sunday morning he lashed out at a staff officer so harshly that the man's face reddened, the veins in his neck expanded,  and, just as he opened his mouth to speak, fell dead of a massive  heart attack in front of Arnold's  desk. Arnold gave his staff the rest of the day off. General Kuter knew of at least one officer  who was in the "psychopathic  ward at Walter Reed" as a result of overwork in Arnold's service. 30 Arnold's rash actions were legendary. It was not uncommon for him to have a sudden idea, literally  grab the 210  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 222 --- first staff officer  he saw, and send him on this urgent errand across the country  without allowing  the man to cut orders for the mission. He also remembered  those who had been opposed  to him or the Air Force in the past . Generals who had not supported  the air arm before the war could not expect to have their own private airplane  during the war.31 32 31 Coffey, Hap, 256, 271. 32 L