.pdf --- Page 139 --- Lovett . Lovett was sympathetic  to the plan, yet they had some apprehension  about Gerow. But, as Hansell put it, "General Gerow showed himself to be a broad-minded,  intelligent,  and high-minded  officer concerned primarily with the overall success of American forces." 90 In other words, Gerow agreed with Hansell. On August 22, 1941, they presented  the plan to Major General George Brett, Chief of the Air Corps. General Gerow, Brigadier  General "Santy" Fairchild,  and Colonel Don Wilson were  present. 91 92 90 Hansell, Air Plan , 93. 91 Ibid, 95. 92 Hansell, Air Plan , 95.On August 30, 1941, AWPD-1 was presented  to General George Marshall, General Arnold, Mr. Averell Harriman, and members of the General Staff. This was a critical point because Marshall could have "with a gesture" dismissed  the entire plan. After the presentation  there were questions about production,  but even though Marshall showed great interest  he still appeared  to be unconvinced.  When all the arguments had been exhausted, Marshall said simply , "Gentlemen,  I think the plan has merit. I would like for the Secretary  and Assistant  Secretaries  to hear it." To Hansell and his colleagues  these words were, "like music to our ears . 1,92 On September 4, 1941, the AWPD presented their plan before Mr. William  Knudsen, Head of the Office of Production 128  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 140 --- Management , along with five of his division chiefs and Mr. John Biggers , the President's  Lend-Lease  representative . This meeting resulted in the most rigorous questioning  they experienced.  The problem  was manufacturing  capabilities . Mr. Knudsen took issue with some of the intelligence  estimates based on the resources available in Germany . The most controversy,  however , surrounded  production  capacity,  but the Air Materiel  Command had provided  facts and figures to rebut most of the criticism. 93 93 Ibid. 94 Ibid, 96. 95 Mrs. Haywood 5. Hansell, Jr., Gri