al Leonard Gerow, head of the War Plans Division, met with General Arnold to discuss the plan, at which time Arnold suggested  that his own Air War Plans Division  be given the task to free up the War Plans Division to deal exclusively with ground forces. Gerow agreed, only requiring  that the air planners  remain within the guidelines  set down by ABC - 1 and RAINBOW  No. 5.34 Hal George was summoned  to Arnold's  office and informed 105  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 117 --- that he and his tiny staff had the task of preparing  the "Air Annex, " but that he would have to work quickly  because  Arnold was prepared  to depart for destinations  unknown , even by him. He was scheduled to return on August 12, 1941, and the document must be completed  by then, just nine days hence . Arnold would end up at Argentia,  Newfoundland,  for the famous Argentia  Conference . So while Roosevelt , Churchill , and their staffs hammered  out a grand strategy  for winning  World War II, George and three other officers  would give them the tools to accomplish  the task.35 35 ibid, 65; Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 30; Gaston, 3-4; Geoffrey Perret, Wiuiged^ictory^_The_ArTOy^Air_For^es  J:^ War II, (New York: Random House, 1993), 49.Events had been moving so rapidly that the air plans could not keep up with them. In May of 1940 a twenty-four- tactical  -group air force had been envisioned,  but in July that plan was upgraded  to fifty-four  groups . In June 1941 all Army aviation was concentrated  into the United States Army Air Forces , giving Arnold more control over the air arm. Yet, even with this unprecedented  growth and limited autonomy , there was no guarantee  that the Army Air Forces would not be restricted  by the current  War Department  doctrine  which stated that air forces existed  to carry out Army missions . Just like field artillery  or the engineers , the Air Force might be relegated  to simply supporting  the infantry. The fact that George and his team wer