8 Sherry, Rise , 179. 49 Schaffer,  Wings , 182. 50 Hansell, Japan , 61.It was not only Hansell  ' s superiors  in Washington  who had taken up the idea of area bombing. At an August 8, 1944, meeting  with General  Arnold, General  O'Donnell  took issue with the bombing strategy. He maintained  that his force was too 261  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 273 --- small for selective  bombing  attacks and that, until the force was built up, that they should bomb "singly and at night using radar to destroy  and burn down the several large cosmopolitan centers ...thereby striking a tremendous  blow at civilian morale." 51 This difference of opinion obviously caused friction  between Hansell and his wing commander . When they arrived at Saipan, Colonel J. B. Montgomery,  XXI Bomber Command  Operations  Officer, reported  that O'Donnell  was "very unhappy"  with the fact that Hansell's  staff exercised  so much control over the 73rd Wing.52 Hansell had to contend with commanders  and staff in Washington  who did not share his belief in daylight,  precision  bombing . In addition  to this , Hansell's  senior wing commander  advocated  a method of bombing totally different  from his. 51 Sherry , Rise, 228-229. 52 Personal Interview  with J. B. Montgomery  by Murray Green, August 8, 1974, Murray Green Collection,  USAFA.Considering  all the difficulties  facing Hansell in the operation  of the XXI Bomber Command, the subject of public relations  seems rather secondary. But Hansell's  handling  of this aspect of his command was actually crucial to its prospects  of success . Lieutenant  Colonel St. Clair McKelway, a former writer for The New Yorker , served as his public relations  officer. Hansell had earlier set up the public relations  procedure  used by the Twentieth  Air Force, and his policy for the XXI Bomber Command was little different . 262  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 274 --- Arnold had advised  Hansell to "emphasize  accuracy  rather than press-