ven began using the strictly  British term "chap" in his 100  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 112 --- conversation  and writing and it is obvious that the British had won a true friend and advocate . Much of Hansell's  time was spent with Group Captain A. C. H. "Bobby" Sharp , who welcomed him into the inner chamber of RAF intelligence. After working sixteen-hour  days the RAF officers would take time to talk to the young American  major about British air operations and, more importantly, British strategic targeting. 26 26 Haywood  Hansell III, Griffith  Interview;  Mrs. Haywood S. Hansell , Jr. , Griffith  Interview;  Hansell , Strategic  Air War, 25.The real work of Hansell's  visit consisted  of examining target folders on German facilities  which had been prepared  by the British. Surprisingly,  he found that he was better informed  than the British  on German electric  power , petroleum, and synthetic  products , although  the British knew more about German aircraft  and engine production,  the actual strength  of the Luftwaffe,  and the German transportation  system. He also examined British base construction  because the ABC Conversations  had already discussed  an Anglo-American  bomber offensive. At the end of July he had collected  a large amount of intelligence  materials  consisting  mostly of very valuable target folders . The problem  was how to transport  nearly 500 pounds of classified  foreign intelligence  on loan from a nation at war to a "neutral"  nation . The material  was finally 101  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 113 --- shipped to the States in a medium bomber .27 27 Hansell, Air War Plan , 53; Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 24-25. 28 Hansell, Air War Plan, 54; Hansell, Hopper Interview.While Hansell was collecting this vast amount of material, two significant  events occurred. The German invasion of Russia was unbelievably  successful for the Germans . Hundreds  of thousands  of Russians  were being taken prisoner and the Ge