, Yenne Interview. 60 Craven and Cate, V, 554, 556 ; Kennett, Strategic Bombing , 169; Mission  Folder no. 7, XXI Bomber Command , Record Group 18, National  Archives .Hansell had submitted  his plan for SAN ANTONIO I, the first B-29 raid on Tokyo , to Washington  on October 30, 1944. Intelligence  estimates stated that the Japanese had six hundred and eight first-line  fighters . Preliminary  analysis of photos indicated  at least one hundred  and fifty heavy anti­ aircraft guns and intense accurate fire was predicted. Japanese radar capabilities  were still unclear, but after a debate over countermeasures  between Hansell and Harmon , O'Donnell  decided  to drop "window"  over Nagoya as a diversion . The target, in accordance  with JCS directives  concerning targeting,  was the Nakajima-Musashino  aircraft  complex  outside Tokyo . The plant was responsible  for twenty-seven  percent of Japanese  aircraft  engines .60 As the date to execute SAN ANTONIO I approached , Hansell 266  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 278 --- was confronted  with three crises which presented  difficulties far above the already perplexing  operational  frictions . In the original  operational  plan, Hansell's  raid on Tokyo would be assisted by carrier-based  Navy aircraft . This would confuse Japanese defenses and give fighter support for the Superfortresses . Because of obligations  in the Philippines , operation  HOTFOOT , as the Navy portion of the mission was called, was canceled. The Navy recommended  that the entire mission be postponed  until they could participate . With Arnold anxious for action, Hansell decided to continue  with the mission without the Navy. Furthermore , if he waited for the Navy, it would appear that the XXI Bomber Command could not conduct the mission  alone, and thus the separate  chain of command of the Twentieth  Air Force would be meaningless .61 61 Hansell , Strategic  Air War, 183.The second crisis manifested  itself in a message from General A