,  the living quarters  were even more so. The Hansell family moved from the spacious  quarters  at Maxwell Field to a little apartment  that had formerly  been a bachelor's  officers'  quarters . The place was so small that a stairway leading to another apartment upstairs  separated  the Hansell's  two bedrooms  from the kitchen and dining room. Mrs. Hansell referred  to the apartment  as a "public hallway " which forced her to get fully dressed to go from her bedroom to her own kitchen. Being a 1st lieutenant in a field officers'  world plainly  had its disadvantages .4 90  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 102 --- The Hansells even found it difficult  to keep up the social pace at Leavenworth.  Since there was very little to do at the Army post itself, the officers  had to make the expensive  trip to Kansas City if they were to enjoy any night life. The Hansells  could afford to make the trip only a few times while they were at Leavenworth.  But, since Leavenworth  had been an old frontier post. Possum got a chance to practice his horsemanship  and play polo to his heart's content. Mrs. Hansell became even more involved in horseback  riding and continued  to take instruction  in the subject, mostly to please her husband. 5 5 Ibid. 6 Haywood  Hansell (Personnel  File) , Record Group 18, File 201, National  Archives,  Washington;  James C. Gaston, Planning the American Air War: Four Men and Nine Days in 1941 , (Washington:  The National  Defense  University  Press, 1982) , 20.The year at Leavenworth lived up to Hansell's expectations  in one respect. On May 2, 1939, he was promoted to captain. He did not find the experience  at Leavenworth  as stimulating  as his studies at ACTS, but he had paid his dues and could go on to more interesting  and important  assignments. By the time of his graduation  in June 1939 he was ready to load Dotta and Tony into his new 1939 Oldsmobile  and set out for his new assignment  in Washington,  D.C.6 It is said that soldiers p