worth,  Kansas . It was an honor to be accepted because graduation from this institution  was the harbinger  of subsequent  promotions  and positions  of responsibility.  Fewer than one in ten West Point graduates  became generals; the path to a star led through Leavenworth . Hansell was particularly  honored because he entered the Command and General Staff College as a 1st lieutenant. Most students were majors or lieutenant colonels .1 1 Geoffrey  Perret, There's A War To Be Won: The United States Army in World War II, (New York: Random House , 1991), 190-111.Leavenworth's  mission was to instruct Army officers in every aspect of their profession  with the ultimate  objective being the ability to command division and corps-size  units . The students participated  in map exercises,  planned and led attacks, conducted  reconnaissance,  defended  strong  points , and 89  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 101 --- perfected techniques  of logistics , especially  supply and transportation . The focus was, of course, on ground-based combat arms . Many Air Corps officers found the instruction boring and out-dated. 2 2 Malinger, 18. 3 Ibid. 4 Mrs. Haywood 2. Hansell, Jr., Griffith  Interview.In the 1930s the instructors  at Leavenworth  failed to discuss air power adequately. Only five of one hundred and fifty-eight  conference  periods were dedicated  to aviation  and these five periods taught air power concepts from 1923. The best Hansell could expect from the experience  was the promise of future promotion . Baker and other graduates from the school jokingly referred to the nearby prison as the "big house" and the Command  and General Staff School as the "little house" for reasons that were, for them, painfully  obvious .3 If the intellectual  atmosphere  was confining,  the living quarters  were even more so. The Hansell family moved from the spacious  quarters  at Maxwell Field to a little apartment  that had formerly  been a bachelor's  officers'  quarters . The