f defender  of America's  coasts, and Washington  had no intention  of spending  it. The condition  of aircraft and facilities  within the Army Air Service was deplorable  and getting  worse . Mitchell  became so vocal in his criticism  that in March 1925 he lost his position  as assistant commander  of the Army Air Services  and was exiled to Ft. Sam 28  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 40 --- Houston, Texas . When a flight of Navy seaplanes  failed to complete the trip from California  to Hawaii and the Navy dirigible  Shenandoah  crashed killing thirteen, all in the space of a week in the late summer of 1925, Mitchell took action. In a statement  to the press he accused the War and Navy Departments  of "incompetency,  criminal negligence,  and the almost treasonable  administration  of our national defense." The gauntlet  was taken up by his opponents  and the ensuing battle resulted in his court-martial  and forced resignation  from the Army as of February  1, 1926.38 38 Weigley, The American Wav of War, 232; James H. Doolittle,  I Could Never Be So Lucky Again , (New York: Bantam Books, 1992), 102-103.Mitchell had welcomed his trial as a platform for publicizing  his views on air power, but the result had ended his military  career. Russell Weigley  contends  that there are two Billy Mitchells,  the one of 1917-1926  who was tied to the existing technology  and existing tactical and strategic knowledge,  and the post-1926  Billy Mitchell  who increasingly advocated  Douhet's  vital center theory. He proposed  attacking the vital centers with fire, high explosives,  and chemical weapons because it would be more cost effective. Perhaps, once his official  ties were severed he could express his own views more freely or, more probably, he had lost touch with the current technology and tended to inflate existing capabilities  of military aircraft. He did, however, inadvertently  teach a generation  of young aviators  to be more 29  File: --- griffith_hansell.