gress .Baker's recommendation  was accepted,  but Hansell's  duties as Deputy Commander  of the Allied Expeditionary  Air Forces , as events developed,  would be nominal at best . Leigh-Mallory soon managed to offend many of the top Allied commanders  and, as a consequence  of this and the nature of the Allied command structure,  the Allied Expeditionary  Air Forces never achieved the prominence  its title promised. In early July Baker sent Hansell to Washington  to promote a plan for a double bomber strike deep into Germany on the aircraft factories at Regensburg  and Wiener-Neustadt.  This plan soon changed to become the famous Schweinfurt-Regensburg  mission . Hansell made the case for the plan before Arnold and it was tentatively  approved  by Marshall  on July 19. Once Arnold got Hansell in Washington,  there was little chance that he would 196  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 208 --- ever assume a permanent  assignment  in the ETO.5 5 Parton, 287; Copp, Forged in Fire , 419, 425, 426. 6 Mrs. Haywood 2. Hansell, Jr., Griffith  Interview.After reporting to Arnold, Hansell received a well- deserved  rest. Dotta and the children were at Indian Rocks, Florida, living across the street from her brother  and sister­ in-law, Reginald  and Susan Vance. Possum contacted  his wife, writing her that he would arrive at 4:30 the next day. Excited at the news of his arrival, Mrs. Hansell made a trip to town to make preparations;  she wanted their reunion to be special. Mrs. Hansell assumed that he would arrive in the afternoon,  but when he arrived  at the airport at 4:30 am there was no one to greet him. He took a taxi across the bay to Indian Rocks only to realize that he did not know the address. By that time it was 6 o'clock and in desperation  he had the taxi driver stop a milk truck and ask the driver. Luckily  the Hansell family was on the driver's route and he led them directly  to the house. Dotta was taken completely  by surprise and was dressed in an old h