ften with impunity. But on occasion  their losses could be as high as 3 percent . Accuracy  also suffered;  the British  could count only a 25 percent accuracy rate on targets as large as zeppelin  sheds and only a 2 percent accuracy  rate on targets such as rail junctions  and rail stations . As the technology of air war improved,  however , so did the size and purpose of the bombs . Incendiary  bombs were constructed  which were used to destroy Bulgarian  wheat fields and to burn grain fields inside German-occupied  France. There was even consideration by the Allies of bombs containing  poison gas to be dropped on German cities .17 Despite all the intentions  of adhering to a strategic bombing policy which targeted only military targets, the absence of an able strategic  bombing force and the need to retaliate  against  German attacks  on Allied cities diverted  the attention  of the Allied air campaign. In the late spring of 1918 the Royal Air Force was created  as an independent  branch of the British armed forces. Its commander,  Hugh Trenchard, 18  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 30 --- had at his disposal  the means for raids in force over German territory  and succeeded in dropping 660 tons of bombs on German targets . But the plans for strategic  bombing did not please the French because  the Germans occupied Belgium and a large portion  of France, thus making France more vulnerable to air attack than Germany . This fact of geography  hindered  the Allied hopes for a strategic  air campaign against Germany . Therefore, an international  strategic air force including British, French, Italian, and American bombers was never organized. 18 18 Kennett, Strategic  Bombing , 26-27. 19 Ibid; Kennett, The First Air War, 216.The Americans  did not launch a strategic  air campaign against Germany even though they made a significant contribution  to the air war with the services of Brigadier General Billy Mitchell . Mitchell commanded  the largest air effort of