ry objective  was the Nakajima-Musashino aircraft complex, the secondary target was the docking 270  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 282 --- facilities  of Tokyo , and the target of last resort was the urban area of Tokyo. O'Donnell led the mission from the cockpit of "Dauntless Dottie" with Major Robert Morgan (formerly of the "Memphis Belle"). O'Donnell flew the mission, but even though he did not spell it out, he let Morgan know that the plan was not his idea.69 69 Hansell, Japan , 38; Telephone  Interview  with Robert Morgan by the author, July 12, 1994.One hundred  and eleven B-29s (representing  ninety  percent of those on Saipan) took off on the morning of November  24, 1944, each weighing  140,000  pounds and using nearly every inch of runway . Some crews had been on Saipan for only a week at the time of their first mission. Seventeen  Superfortresses aborted  and six failed to bomb because  of mechanical  problems, but eighty-eight  bombers made it to Tokyo, with twenty four bombing the primary target and sixty four bombing the secondary. They had encountered  a one hundred  and twenty knot tail wind, which gave them a four hundred  and forty-five  mile per hour ground speed. Since only seven percent of the bombs dropped were observed in the target area, the results were deemed "unsatisfactory. " No attempt  was made to determine  the results of bombing the secondary  due to poor photographs. Anti-aircraft  fire was "meager to moderate" and generally inaccurate. Approximately  one hundred and twenty-five Japanese  fighters attacked, but the opposition  was much less fierce than feared. One B-29 was apparently  rammed by a 271  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 283 --- damaged Japanese  fighter and went down with the entire crew. One other B-29 ditched at sea with the entire crew being rescued. Losses amounted to less than two percent of the attacking  force. 70 70 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 189; Hansell, Japan , 39; Mission Folder no. 7, XXI