, V, 547-548.One of Hansell's  first tasks was to secure an aide. When asked the qualifications,  Hansell listed intelligent,  alert, hardworking, good humored, tolerant, and courteous. Lieutenant  Ray Milne was the perfect officer for the job and became a cherished  friend. This was one of Hansell's  easier tasks . Even though advanced echelons of the XXI Bomber Command  and 73rd Wing headquarters  had arrived  before Hansell, it would take weeks for all the headquarters  personnel to arrive. General O'Donnell arrived on October 20 and Superfortresses  were promised  to arrive at a rate of five a day. Yet, in spite of General Harmon's best efforts, they were arriving  at the rate of two per day. Time was running out and there was much to do.18 As a student and instructor  at ACTS and as a planner writing  AWPD-1 Hansell  had dealt with combat operations  in the abstract,  he was not confronted  with Clausewitzian  frictions. To be sure, Hansell had always been aware of them and had made an effort to factor them into his lectures  and war plans, but it was the experience  of war in Europe which drove home their importance  in military operations. As a pioneer of heavy bomber operations  in Europe, Hansell had been confronted  with supply problems,  inadequate  training,  difficulties  in putting 243  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 255 --- the bombs on the target, problems with the weather, difficulties  in the command structure, and myriad other frictions,  not to mention enemy opposition. In the Marianas Hansell found himself confronted  by a whole new set of frictions  which were far more daunting  than those he, or any other bomber commander,  had confronted  in England. When Hansell arrived at Brampton  Grange as commander  of the 1st Bomb Wing in England, he described  his quarters as "the most uncomfortable  living accommodation  in England." Now he was living in a tent, dressed in shorts because of the heat, and eating food that probably  made him ho