File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 68 --- had considered  himself a pursuit pilot, but George dealt with bombardment . The contact between the two gave Hansell his first real exposure to the potentials  of bombardment.  When Hansell was transferred  from this position in 1933, George wrote a letter of commendation  on Hansell's behalf which reveals an important aspect of Hansell's future in bombardment. The commendation  read in part, "It is no exaggeration  to state that the text on bombardment probabilities,  as now contained  in the bombardment  manual, and which I consider  extremely  valuable,  was made possible  by his indefatigable  work. "30 30 Captain  Harold  George to The Commandant,  Maxwell  Field, November 24, 1933, The Papers of Haywood Hansell (Microfilm Edition),  AFHRC, Maxwell  AFB; C. W. "Bill" Getz, ed. , The Wild Blue Yonder: Songs of the Air Force , (San Mateo, California: The Redwood Press, 1981), DE-14, 15, F-15, 16, 0-4, 5, 6.Harold George would later be in position to advance Hansell's  career. It was, however, Hansell's  association  with Claire Chennault  that first won him any degree of recognition. The Air Corps was constantly  looking for ways to promote itself with the public because with public support came a better chance for a larger slice of the shrinking  military budget. Lieutenant  Colonel John Curry, the Commandant  of the Air Corps Tactical  School, noted in 1933 that the Navy had a trio of acrobatic  pilots which could thrill the public with their aerial exploits  and the Air Corps was in need of such a team of its own. The Air Corps acrobatic  team would represent Army aviation at public functions, develop tactics, and 57  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 69 --- demonstrate  tactics for students at the Air Corps Tactical School . Captain  Claire Channault , the Air Corps's most vocal advocate of pursuit aviation, was naturally selected to command the team.31 31 Martha Byrd, Chennault:  Giving Wings to the Tiger