y  and industrial targets . As chief of staff of the Twentieth  Air Force he had insisted  that General Wolfe's XX Bomber Command  operating  out of China conduct daylight,  precision  attacks. Under intense criticism  from Hansell, Wolfe struggled  to conduct daylight, precision  operations.  Since Hansell was at the right hand of Arnold he had a great deal of influence  in directing  the use of American  air power. At the peak of his power, Hansell was the only one of the hand full of former instructors  at the Air Corps Tactical School who had such an opportunity  to shape American strategic  bombing policy. In August 1944 Arnold placed Curtis LeMay in charge of the B-29s in China and Hansell in charge of the new XXI Bomber Command in the Marianas . Almost as soon as Hansell departed  for the Pacific his replacement  at Twentieth  Air Force, Lauris Norstad, began the process of committing  American bombers to terror attacks 5  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 17 --- against Japan . General Arnold was committed  to no particular air power doctrine  — he simply wanted results. Officers  now in a position to make decisions,  Norstad, LeMay, and Emmett O'Donnell,  had not undergone  the full course at the Air Corps Tactical School, but rather had attended an abbreviated session which contributed  to their more pragmatic  attitude toward strategic  bombing. When Hansell prepared  his first mission on Tokyo he was shocked to learn that General Arnold opposed  his plan, but was willing to leave the final decision to the commander  on the scene . A second shock came when Hansell's wing commander, O'Donnell, likewise opposed the daylight  attack. Hansell proceeded  with the operation  which suffered  a loss rate of less than two percent. The B-29s had survived  over Japan, but they failed to destroy  their targets. Mission after mission brought back disappointing  results, while Hansell had to contend with crews trained for night missions , poor supply lines, inade