actor in "technological  fanaticism"  is the powerful  emotions  that war invokes . Americans  were reluctant to use area bombing  against the Germans, but the Japanese  were quite a different  matter. After Pearl Harbor and the Bataan Death March Americans  were ready for revenge . The racial differences,  as John Dower explains in his work War Without Mercy , helped many Americans  view the Japanese as subhuman creatures  worthy of being killed in mass . Hansell was also aware of this attitude and "recalled  the widespread  belief 303  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 315 --- that the Japanese had placed themselves  outside the human community  by acts of barbarism  and by flouting  the customs of warfare .1,36 The airmen who made the decision to follow the path of incendiary  attacks were certainly  not barbarians,  but by the same token they were caught up in the same emotions that caused the public to accept such attacks . Another  important  consideration  in the decision  to launch the incendiary  attacks was the timetable  for the invasion. Operation  OLYMPIC  was planned  for the fall of 1945. This gave the Twentieth  Air Force much less time to conclude  a strategic air campaign than the Eighth Air Force had enjoyed. As Hansell pointed out, when Baker convinced Churchill to continue the daylight, precision  bombing campaign  Operation OVERLORD  was still seventeen  months away. Hansell and LeMay were operating  under a time constrain'.  because all hopes had been pinned on an invasion  that was to come within the year. Hansell contended  that the invasion was important because belief in its success meant that there was no grand strategy for the Air Force -- no identifiable  victory  conditions  other than the nebulous  goal of defeating  Japan.36 37 36 John Dower , War Without Mercy , (New York: Pantheon Books , 1986), passim; Schaffer,  Wings , 175. 37 Hansell , Japan , 75-76, 91, 93 .General Arnold had no clear scheme for winning the war against J