here would only be one wing operating out of China, the MATTERHORN  plan could not be fully implemented,  but Hansell made the most of what he had. As Craven and Cate observe, "The Joint Planners adhered more 215  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 227 --- closely to Hansell's  ideas in the report they sent to the JCS on March 2. "39 The original  plan recommended  that the first eight groups (four groups constituted  a wing) would operate from China and India and would attack coke ovens in Manchuria, POL (petroleum,  oil, and lubricants)  targets in the Dutch East Indies , and industrial  targets in Japan . Twelve groups would be assigned  to the Marianas , then perhaps other groups would be stationed  in the Aleutians,  Luzon, Formosa, or Siberia, depending  on the course of the war.40 39 Ibid, 29. 40 Ibid.Thus Hansell's  plan was placed before the Joint Chiefs of Staff on March 6, 1944, and he was to present the case of the Air Force before the Joint Chiefs on March 9. When he went to General Arnold for last minute advice, he found that Arnold had left for the West Coast and would not be in attendance  at the JCS meeting. Hansell later learned that since Arnold had never been accepted  as full partner on the JCS, whenever  his presence at a meeting might cause friction he would be conveniently  absent . Since the Navy's plan to capture the Marianas  was in the best interest of the Air Force and the Army supported  the reconquest  of the Philippines , Arnold did not want to be in a position to disagree with General Marshall . Hansell was anxious about giving the presentation with Arnold absent , but as it turned out Marshall  was in favor of operations  in the central Pacific as well as the liberation 216  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 228 --- of the Philippines . Thus, as was so often the case in the Pacific, the two rival strategies  were both endorsed and Hansell would have his Marianas  bases. 41 41 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 22-24; Hayes , 59