emy's  will to war and forces him to sue for peace . "52 In 1926 ACTS amended this by stating that air power could strike deep into enemy territory  at the vital points of the enemy's infrastructure  rather merely targeting  the enemy's military  forces in a war of attrition. In 1930 the Bombardment  Text stated: "Bombardment  formations may suffer defeat at the hands of hostile pursuit , but with a properly constituted  formation, efficiently  flown, these defeats will be the exception  rather than the rule." 53 The 1931 Bombardment  Text expressed  the belief that the bomber could operate  day or night , singly or in mass, with or without pursuit support , and that defense against hostile pursuit could be maintained  by supporting  fire of machine guns of 51 Fabyanic , 5. 52 Finney, 30. 53 Fabyanic , 25 . 67  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 79 --- aircraft flying in close formation . The attitude  was more succinctly  expressed  by 1st Lieutenant  Kenneth  N. Walker in a lecture in the Bombardment  course , "Military  airmen of all nations agree that a determined  air attack, once launched, is most difficult,  if not impossible  to stop." 54 55 This shift in emphasis from pursuit to bombardment  was the result of two factors  : the air war theories of the time and the state of aviation  technology. 54 Finney, 32, 33 . 55 Ibid, 27.There is no doubt that General Billy Mitchell's  ideas concerning  air power had a profound effect on doctrine formulated  at ACTS. The court-martialed  general 's writings and testimony  were well known among the faculty  at ACTS , many of whom had had direct contact with him. In fact , Lieutenant Kenneth  Walker and Captain  Robert Olds had served as aides to Mitchell . These two men were responsible  for formulating  a major portion of ACTS bombardment  doctrine and prompted historian  Robert Finney to conclude  that these two instructors "consciously  or unconsciously"  provided  "the covering  for the skeleton built by Mitche