ce with minimal losses . ACTS was true to its motto because they were unhindered  by custom, but they were hindered by a rapidly  changing  technology  and a rapidly  changing  world situation. It must be remembered,  however, that the faculty  at ACTS operated  in the realm of pure theory. Their work was at best preliminary  because they were not called upon to make actual strategic  or operational  plans. The equipment  on which they based their doctrine  was as yet untested, as in the case of the B-17 and its bombsights.  They had confidently  touted the virtues of the self-defending  bomber, yet power turrets and .50 cal. defensive  guns were not yet available. The real value of the work done at ACTS is that a small group of talented military thinkers were given the opportunity  to explore the potential  for a powerful new weapon: air power. In later years Hansell reflected  on the importance  of his work at ACTS : "If our air theorists  had had knowledge  of radar in 1935, the American doctrine of strategic bombing in deep daylight  penetrations  would surely not have evolved. " He went on to add, "Our ignorance  of radar was surely an asset in this phase." 96 One might question  his conclusion,  but it is clear that the work done at Maxwell Field would produce the Air Corps's plan to deploy America's  vast air power resources during World War II. 96 Greer, 60. 88  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 100 --- CHAPTER III PLANNING Hansell's ideas concerning  aerial warfare were well established  by the time of his departure  from the Air Corps Tactical  School in 1938. Yet, as an Army officer, he knew he had to follow the prescribed  Army path to success . An important  step on that path was admission  to the Army Command and General Staff College  at Fort Leavenworth,  Kansas . It was an honor to be accepted because graduation from this institution  was the harbinger  of subsequent  promotions  and positions  of responsibility.  Fewer than one in ten West Po