every two weeks and include therein one or two interesting  points that he can get his teeth into and perhaps take up at the Chief of Staff's meeting.  " It was obvious that Arnold had been too involved  in Hansell's initial operation and that , in the future, information  from Hansell to Arnold should be somewhat 277  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 289 --- limited. 81 81 Ibid. 82 Ibid.Another important  point was public relations. Norstad praised  McKelway  for his excellent  work: "The handling  at your end of public relations  on the first operation  was excellent . It got very good play here, both in the press and on the radio , and the tone of it was very, very good . We are going to send you from time to time our 'party line. ' We are doing this also for LeMay. My thought in this is that we will get General  Arnold from time to time, in his public announcements , to set the key notes and following that, all our public relations  will be oriented  to the points he makes . . . I hope you will see fit to follow this line and to give me any comments or recommendations  you have on it." This letter is characteristic  of the correspondence  between Norstad and Hansell -- praise and support, followed  by subtle suggestions and hints that things could be better. 82 This letter might have reassured  Hansell, but the fact remains that he was fighting  a losing battle, not against the Japanese, but against both his immediate  superiors  and his immediate  subordinates . In a letter to Arnold dated November 29, 1944, Norstad suggested  bombing the Imperial Palace in Tokyo on December 7, 1944, to commemorate  the third anniversary  of Pearl Harbor . This suggestion  illustrates either a lack of understanding  of what kind of bombing 278  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 290 --- campaign Hansell was running or a lack of respect for it. Norstad's  only problem with the proposed  attack was that it might bring serious consequences  to Allied prisoners  of war.