ure Donald Wilson stated that the goal was to "select targets whose destruction  would disrupt the entire fabric of an enemy's economy and thereby discommode  the civilian  population  in its normal day-to-day  existence  and to break its faith in the military establishment. 1,66 Wilson knew from his own railroad  experience  that the destruction  of a few vital links could disrupt the flow of material , therefore, if one identified  and destroyed  the truly vital links the objective  of disruption  of the civilian  population could be achieved. Later Harold George and Captain Robert Webster  examined  New York City and concluded  that if seventeen specific  targets within the city's transportation  and utility system were destroyed  the city would no longer be habitable . This would achieve the objective  Douhet had proposed  without the destruction  and casualties  thereby , avoiding  any semblance of immorality. 67 Hansell's  mentors naturally  assumed that this sort of decisive strategic  bombing could take place without serious opposition  from enemy pursuit or antiaircraft  fire. Wilson 74  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 86 --- felt that in most cases the enemy air force could be passed up unless it threatened  one's own base of operations  or if enemy air defenses were too strong. According  to George, in the unlikely  event that an enemy air force had to be dealt with the solution was to seek out and destroy the enemy on the ground. In fact, he discounted  the threat of pursuit  aviation altogether  and expressed  his opinion that air-to-air  combat was an anachronism:  "The spectacle  of huge air forces meeting in the air is a figment of the imagination  of the uninitiated." 68 The mutual supporting fire from close formation  along with speed and altitude  would make the bomber practically  invulnerable  and make a pitched  air battle a thing of the past.69 68 Greer, 56. 69 Hansell, Air Plan , 44-45; Finney, 37. 70 Fabyanic, 45.By the time of Hanse