dmitted, "We haven't destroyed  the plant -- not by a damn sight." Norstad, in an attempt at damage control, was quoted: "Norstad  judged the job better than he had seen in Europe. .." The article went on: "There was no more talk of burning Japan's papermache  cities; some, like Nagoya or Osaka, never modernized  (as Tokyo after the 1923 earthquake) , might be fired by overs or shorts intended for factories on their outskirts. If so, it would be incidental." 16 Hansell had turned into a public relations problem for Arnold, and especially  for Norstad, who wanted to prepare the public to accept incendiary  attacks. Hansell was clearly not going to follow Norstad's  lead. 16 Time , January 8, 1945.When Hansell was Chief of Staff of the Twentieth  Air Force, Arnold depended upon him to bear the burden of coordinating  the operations  of the XX Bomber Command. When Hansell had demanded  daylight,  precision attacks from Wolfe, Arnold had backed him up. Now Hansell was thousands  of miles from Washington  and Norstad was calling the shots. Norstad was very interested  in incendiary  attacks and sold the idea to Arnold as well. By mid-December  when things were not going well for Hansell it is apparent  that Arnold was depending  more and more on Norstad. The important  December 16 letter from Hansell  was never read by Arnold, it was summarized  by Norstad at Arnold's request. It is apparent that Arnold's view of Hansell' operations  came through Norstad. Hansell's  rocky 291  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 303 --- relationships  with commanders in the theater, Arnold's disappointments  in the rate and success of XXI Bomber Command operations , and Hansell's public relations problems all contributed  to his downfall , but in the end it was Norstad  who saw to it that Arnold fired Hansell . Norstad realized  that Hansell would not easily go along with firebombing  Japan's cities and that his press releases were only confirming  his committment  to daylight, preci