o my mistakes." 60 This readiness to accept personal 59 Hansell, "Notes of a Bomber Commander, " 5; Hansell, Air Plan , 141. 60 Hansell, Air Plan , 140. 61 Copp, Forged in Fire , 332; Hansell, Air Plan , 140; Hansell, "Notes of a Bomber Commander,"  5-7.responsibility  was characteristic  of his honesty and clear­ eyed objectivity. Beginning at the first meeting, Hansell established standard operating  procedures  which would be used by each group in the wing. These "S.O.P.s" included take off and assembly,  route to target, target exposure,  return to England, and landing at bases. No detail was too small to be addressed. If there was a problem  on one mission, the S.O.P. would be changed for the next mission. Once Hansell had made a decision, the group commanders  were given "absolutely  no discretion  for deviation  until the next meeting." Hansell termed this doctrine "flexible  rigidity." The motto Hansell selected for the 1st Bombardment Wing expressed his expectations  for the bomber crews: "Put the Bombs on the Target . " 61 Hansell realized  that the most critical  tactical  problem he faced was the penetration  of German air defenses. With no 167  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 179 --- long-range  escorts available,  the bombers would have to rely upon their defensive  firepower  enhanced  by their formations . It had already  been determined  that an element of sixty B-17s was too unwieldy  and a simple element of three offered little defensive  firepower . When Hansell came on board, he found that Kuter was already experimenting  with the "combat box," which had originated  with Colonel LeMay and the 305th Group . Three aircraft  comprised  an element, two elements  comprised  a squadron , and three squadrons  comprised  a group , thus creating a combat box of eighteen  aircraft,  which was the smallest  unit for defensive  purposes  and the largest that could be handled on the bomb run. Hansell then created two tactical combat wings of three co