l successor  to the Twentieth  Air Force . Also, according to Michael Sherry, the creation of the Twentieth  Air Force signaled  the end of President  Roosevelt's direct involvement  in the formulation  of strategy. From that point on his involvement  was more indirect or secret . The instrument  that would end the war with Japan would soon be unleashed. 50 222  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 234 --- Arnold assigned Hansell to be Chief of Staff of the Twentieth  Air Force in addition  to being Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. Hansell was opposed to the idea of creating  yet another staff organization  for Arnold at the Pentagon, so he suggested  that the Air Staff also fulfill the function  of the staff of the Twentieth  Air Force . Each of the assistant chiefs was instructed  to "wear two hats , " working  both for the Headquarters  of the Army Air Forces and the Twentieth  Air Force . Arnold agreed to Hansell's  plan to dovetail the two organizations  "somewhat reluctantly.  " Although Arnold selected the top commanders  himself, Hansell drew up the tables of organization  and established  the tactical  doctrine and standing operational  procedures . His other immediate concerns included  the handling, control , and coordination  of many aircraft and units literally  scattered  over the globe . He was also responsible  for establishing  a basis for uniform training . From the very beginning  Hansell in reality served more as commander  of the Twentieth  Air Force than as chief of staff . With Arnold's  wide-ranging  commitments  all over the globe and his poor health, Hansell was given nearly a free hand to do as he saw fit with the new global strategic  air force as long as the end results met Arnold's  expectations .51 51 Hansell , Strategic  Air War, 161.This was a time of unusually  high tension  between  Arnold and his staff . Arnold met every morning  at 7:30 with Generals White, Kuter , and Hansell in his inner office . Armed with 223  File: --- grif