from General Eisenhower  awaited  him. He also went back to work on plans for the Twelfth  Air Force and operations  for the Eighth Air Force. At midnight  of August 26 Hansell awoke Spaatz with news of a cable from General Marshall. The Army Chief of Staff had ordered  Hansell to obtain bombing  data and return to Washington  within forty-eight  hours. 11 The President had called for an "immediate  detailed war plan" and Marshall January 7, 1970, Murray Green Collection,  USAFA. 143  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 155 --- stressed that, "Urgency requires his moving in a matter of hours." The final line of the cable had to be very sobering for Hansell  : "The results of the work of this group are of such far reaching  importance  that it will probably  determine whether or not we control the air."12 12 Cable from Marshall  to Spaatz , August 26, 1942, Arnold Papers , Box 273, Library of Congress . 13 Hansell , Air Plan , 100. 14 Ibid, 100-101.On August 25, 1942, President  Roosevelt  had requested that General Arnold submit , "his judgment of the number of combat aircraft  by types which should be produced  for the Army and our Allies in this country in 1943 in order to have complete  air ascendancy  over the enemy." 13 The report was to be made through  General  Marshall,  thus prompting  the August 26 cable . Hansell indeed took the cable seriously  and left at the earliest  opportunity  along with Colonel Harris Hull , head of the intelligence  section at VIII Bomber Command and RAF Group Captain Bobby Sharp , Hansell's  old associate .14 Unlike AWPD-1, which was drawn up to plan a potential war, AWPD-42 was to be prepared in order to meet on-going crises . The Japanese  had carved out a large empire in the Asiatic-Pacific  Theater and the battle for Guadalcanal  had just begun , with the outcome very much in doubt . Tobruk had fallen and Egypt had not yet been saved at El Alamein . The Russians were falling back as the German armies neared 144  File: --