n strategic  air war was to strike specific targets. Hansell and his colleagues were very confident that this could be accomplished.  In one lecture Hansell boldly declared that, "There is at present time, we believe, no structures  which cannot be destroyed  by bombs, " but he went on to add, "Bombs will accomplish  the desired  result only if they are detonated in the proper places. No amount of skill or proficiency  in other ways can compensate  for failure to deliver the bombs with sufficient  accuracy.  1,84 In order to strike the targets, those targets must first be identified. Hansell identified the desired targets: "...civil structures,  such as power plants, factories,  water works, and other structures  are quite vulnerable  to small bombs, " and considered  them, "almost impossible  to disperse  and cannot be concealed.  1,85 83  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 95 --- Hansell may seem to be over-simplifying  the situation, but the faculty at ACTS had already begun to tackle the enormous  problem  of target selection. Since American  military intelligence  carried out on foreign nations was strongly discouraged,  Muir Fairchild  and Robert Webster undertook  and analysis  of American  industry  to test the concept of the vital point. Hansell assisted  and made an important  discovery. He found that a particular  highly specialized  spring used in the manufacture  of controllable  pitch propellers  was manufactured by one particular  firm and that a shortage  of that spring had brought a large portion of American  aircraft  production  to a halt . Hansell indicated  that that example  had set the pattern for target selection, since precision targets which were critical  for basic industry  were sought . Targets of this type were later referred to by critics as "panacea targets " and later made the ball-bearing  facilities at Schweinfurt, Germany, infamous .86 86 Finney, 32-35; Sherry, Rise , 54.Targeting  is pointless  if the aircraft  can not reach