e was concerned  over the rate of engine failures, the computer that assisted the gunners with the defensive  armament , and with the rate of aborts which would be a problem  once the bombing  campaign  began . He had the ground 247  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 259 --- crews lighten the aircraft  as much as possible  to extend the gas mileage . In spite of all his efforts, the fact remains that the B-29 had been rushed into combat before it was entirely  ready and only time and experience  could correct the problems . Time was one thing Hansell did not have.26 26 Hansell , Japan , 43, 44; Crane , Bombs , 128. 27 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 171; Crane , Bombs , 128.Hansell had found both the 3rd and 1st Bomb Wings , which he commanded  in England, to be lacking in training  and had set up programs to iron out such deficiencies  as gunnery and formation  flying. One major difference  is that the crews in England had been trained in daylight, precision  bombardment from the beginning ; the 73rd Wing had been trained in night , radar bombardment . Most of the 73rd' s crews had less than one hundred hours flying time in the B-29 , only twelve hours of which was at high altitude . Hansell sent the bombers on practice missions to bomb Japanese-held  islands in the Carolines,  which will be examined  below. Technical  problems multiplied  with each mission. Hansell had less than a month to get the bombers ready to strike the home islands of Japan. 27 Hansell's  decision to switch the 73rd Wing to daylight operations  was not popular because many "seasoned  experts " believed  that the B-29s would simply be shot out of the air over Japan . But the targets  which XXI Bomber Command  had been assigned  to bomb simply could not be hit using the existing 248  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 260 --- radar . Radar had been used in Europe to bomb in adverse weather, but the results were far from what Hansell had expected. The Air Force was in the process of imp