ppreciated  at the time. When his staff prepared  a project to survey the Burma Road to explore the possibilities  of supplying  China in order to conduct air operations , the War Department  G-2 Section  got hold of the proposal  and forwarded  it to the Chief of Staff . The Deputy Chief of Staff, Major General  William  Bryden, wrote his critique in his own hand when he returned  the plan: "If the Intelligence  Division  of the Air Corps has nothing more practical  to do than this, we will give them a job."20 When the incident came to the attention of General Arnold he 98  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 110 --- responded  by writing, "I am inclined to agree with General Bryden. " Hansell had had his first brush with Hap Arnold. There would be many more such clashes between the doctrine- oriented  Hansell  and the pragmatic  Arnold. 21 22 21 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 20-21. 22 Ibid, 53.Hansell's work on target systems was remarkable, especially considering  the lack of support he received. The efforts were somewhat less successful  when it came to an analysis of German transportation  systems because of the extent of the rail and canal systems. Perhaps the greatest benefit of this intelligence  work was to further convince Hansell that the ideas formulated  at ACTS were more valid than ever. He later wrote of his experience  as intelligence  chief: " I was motivated  by a number of convictions  to turn out maximum effort to the defeat of Hitler. A year's study as head of the Strategic  Air Intelligence  Section of A-2 led me to a firm belief that Germany was susceptible  to defeat from the air. 1,22 Hansell's  intelligence  also included  British  sources. On November  28, 1940, he had a conversation  with Air Commodore John Slessor in Washington  in Spaatz's  office in which Slessor answered a number of questions  about strategic  bombing as it had been practiced  thus far in the war. He agreed with Hansell's ideas totally, even to the point of endorsi