he invasion  of France and Baker believed  that Hansell  would be an ideal deputy. Arnold was engaged in his own struggle in Washington  and needed competent staff officers . Haywood Hansell was the man he wanted. Thus in mid-June  1943 a high- level "battle of the cables " was waged with the services of Hansell as the objective .1 1 Craven and Cate, 11, 635; Charles Carrington,  Soldier at Bomber Command , (London  : Leo Cooper, 1987), 133. 2 Arnold to Baker , June 19, 1943, Baker Papers , Box 18, Library of Congress .On June 19 Arnold cabled Baker that, "Army Air Forces are being directly  controlled  by the Joint Chiefs of Staff and combined Chiefs of Staff more and more each day. " He indicated that he needed a high-level  planner who would provide a balance  which would counter the predominance  of the Navy and Army ground forces on the Combined  and Joint Planning Staffs . "On this high level Brigadier  H. S. Hansell is the type needed as the Air Officer to represent  me. "2 The next 195  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 207 --- day Baker responded  by agreeing  with Arnold that Hansell was the man for the job in Washington,  but, "Likewise  there is no officer in the Eighth Air Force available  for the job we have lately put Hansell on who would be satisfactory  for the work he has to do and who would be, as he is, fully acceptable  to the British and particularly  to Air Marshal Leigh-Mallory." 3 4 On June 22 Baker cabled Washington  that he recommended  that Hansell be retained  in the European  Theater of Operations  for "the very important  task to which he has just been assigned.  1,4 3 Baker to Commanding  General ETOUSA, June 20, 1943, Eaker Papers , Box 18, Library of Congress . 4 Eaker to AGWAR, June 22, 1943, Eaker Papers , Box 18, Library of Congress .Baker's recommendation  was accepted,  but Hansell's  duties as Deputy Commander  of the Allied Expeditionary  Air Forces , as events developed,  would be nominal at best . Leigh-Mallory soon m