e thereby forced into a wholesale and hasty dispersal  program. 1,49 Along with the bombing, the Japanese had severe shortages of special steels requiring cobalt, nickel, and chrome brought about by the effective naval blockade. These shortages  contributed  to the dramatic  decline in Japanese aircraft production. The aircraft engine production  was reduced by seventy-five  percent and airframe production  was reduced by sixty percent. 50 Hansell had been achieving  his objective  through daylight, precision  attacks 48 Ibid, 267. USSBS, Summary Report (Pacific War) . (Washington:  1 July 1946), 16. 50 Ibid, 18. 309  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 321 --- after all. Hansell  was an air pioneer  of the early barnstorming  days when "Three Men on a Flying Trapeeze"  captured  the imagination of a nation. As a student and instructor  at the Air Corps Tactical School he was instrumental  in developing and promoting  the Army Air Corps's doctrine  of daylight,  precision bombardment . He then made his mark in creating the air intelligence  necessary to carry out strategic bombing . Hansell holds the distinction  of authoring  AWPD/1, AWPD/42 , and the Plan for the Combined Bomber Offensive — the remarkable  air war plans that carried the United States Army Air Forces through World War II. He was also the guiding force in planning  the air war plan for the strategic  bombing of Japan, at least until he departed for the Pacific . As commander  of the 1st Bombardment  Wing, Hansell pioneered  the use of B-17s in Europe at a time when the Eighth Air Force consisted  of only four groups of B-17s and two of B-24s . He was the driving  force behind the creation  of the Twentieth  Air Force, the world's first global bomber force and forerunner  of the Strategic Air Command . Finally, he pioneered the deployment  of the B-29 against Japan , overcoming  great odds just to begin operations  and conducting  a successful  campaign in the face of opposition  not only from th