mb. Each group would include seventy  aircraft  of which only thirty six would be available  for a given mission. Under normal conditions  it would take six groups to destroy a target, but when the estimated bomb error under combat conditions  (a factor of five) is calculated,  thirty groups would be required  to destroy a target .51 51 Hansell, Air Plan, 77, 86, 87; Fabyanic, 59-60.For example, if 50 generating  plants were to be destroyed 30 groups would be required for the task which would equal 112  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 124 --- 1,500 individual  group targets . Assuming that the weather would allow eight operational  days per month (three more than could be expected,  according to British experience)  , it would require thirty-two  groups or 2,240 operational  aircraft to destroy the targets within six months. Eventually  the AWPD determined  that there would be 154 individual  German targets which would ultimately  require 6,860 heavy bombers. 52 52 Fabyanic, 60; AWPD-1, Tab 2. 53 Hansell, Air Plan , 74.The number of bombers at which the AWPD arrived  was not simply drawn from a hat. A detailed  bombing plan had been established  by the planners. The first and most important assumption  of the plan was, as Hansell  put it, "that since the German State was supporting  one of the greatest military operations of all time, it was under great internal stress." 53 If the bombing could strike the most critical target systems in the German economy the Germans would be forced to terminate  military  operations  because of a paucity of equipment  and petroleum  products,  and the loss of any means of transporting  what resources were left. The planners estimated  that the Army could not possibly  mount offensive operations  in Northwestern  Europe in less that two and a half years after M-Day (Mobilization  Day) , but that the Air Force could begin operations  within one year of M-Day. The first tasks of the Air Force operating  out of England  and the