's  office in which Slessor answered a number of questions  about strategic  bombing as it had been practiced  thus far in the war. He agreed with Hansell's ideas totally, even to the point of endorsing precision  bombing over area bombing. Since the Operations 99  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 111 --- Planning  Branch of the Intelligence  Division  was just being organized  in London , it was suggested  that a visit by Hansell to that facility  would "greatly facilitate  the organization and operation  of this function. " Hansell's  next important mission  would be as an observer  in England. 23 23 "Conversation  with Air Commodore Schlesser [sic]," December  4, 1940, File 167.6-51,  AFHRC, Maxwell AFB. 24 Orders for Major H.S. Hansell from the War Department, Office of the Chief of the Air Corps , July 7, 1941, Hansell Papers (Microfilm  Edition) , AFHRC, Maxwell AFB. 25 Hansell , Hopper Interview.When Hansell departed  for London Dotta was seven months pregnant  and had seven-year-old  Tony and ten-month-old  Lucia to care for. He hated to leave, yet the trip was important for the development  of American  strategic  air power and his career. Just before his departure  he was authorized  by the War Department to investigate  the efficiency  of foreign aircraft, foreign commercial  and military  airlines . He was rated both as an aircraft observer  and a technical  observer for the occasion. 24 Hansell found that he was in his element in London , "I got a tremendous  cooperative  reception;  couldn't have been finer." 25 He found that the British could go through a day filled with terror and difficult  decisions  and still find time for tea in the afternoon. This was very much in line with Hansell's  Southern  upbringing  and he was never more at home . He even began using the strictly  British term "chap" in his 100  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 112 --- conversation  and writing and it is obvious that the British had won a true friend and adv