ctical School . Captain  Claire Channault , the Air Corps's most vocal advocate of pursuit aviation, was naturally selected to command the team.31 31 Martha Byrd, Chennault:  Giving Wings to the Tiger , (Tuscelossa,  Alabama  : University  of Alabama  Press , 1981), 41­ 42. 32 DeWitt S. Copp, A Few Great Captains , (New York: Doubleday  and Company, 1980), 321. 33 Byrd, 41. 34 Ibid, 41-42.Chennault  considered  himself to be the best pilot in the Air Corps . He was an outspoken  advocate  of military  aviation in general , pursuit aviation  in particular,  and himself above all. According  to Hansell, "Chennault  figured  there were only two kinds of people -- those who agreed with him and those who didn't." 32 Chennaul  t selected his team as if he were auditioning  for a drama production.  As his biographer,  Martha Byrd, explained,  "Chennault  chose his partners  by the simple expedient  of challenging  any comer to stay on his wing through half an hour of head-spinning  aerobatics." 33 He selected  the three men he concluded  were good enough to fly with him: Sergeant  William  C. "Billy" McDonald,  Sergeant  John H. "Luke" Williamson,  and Lieutenant  Haywood "Possum" Hansell . Both McDonald  and Williamson  had reserve  commissions,  but served on active duty as enlisted  men in order to fly.34 The team put in many hours of practice and put on 58  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 70 --- performances  at Maxwell two or three times a week. Local schools in Montgomery  would sometimes  be let out just to allow the children to watch their aerial feats . They soon became known as "Three Men on a Flying Trapeze,  " with Chennault flying lead, Williamson  flying as right wingman, Hansell flying as left wingman, and McDonald as alternate . They dazzled the public by putting on speed and precision  acts at airport openings  and air shows , and represented  the Air Corps at the National Air Races at Cleveland, Ohio . The Press touted them as "dare-devils who lau