nt of material, two significant  events occurred. The German invasion of Russia was unbelievably  successful for the Germans . Hundreds  of thousands  of Russians  were being taken prisoner and the German panzer divisions  were driving deep into Soviet territory. It appeared to be only a matter of time before the Soviet Union went the way of France . The other important event was considered  to be top secret . President  Roosevelt  had requested  the War and Navy Departments to prepare  overall  production  requirements  necessary  to defeat America's  potential  enemies. The first hint Hansell had that something  important  was transpiring  was a cablegram  ordering him home from England immediately. 28 More important  than target folders, Hansell returned  to the United States with a firmer conviction  that the ideas he and his colleagues  had formulated  at ACTS had the potential  to win the war. In spite of what Slessor had said in Spaatz's office, the basic difference  between  the British  and Americans was the argument  between area bombing at night and daylight, precision  bombing . It was true, he wrote, that "both German and British bombers proved vulnerable  to fighters, but they were medium bombers , poorly armed and flying at a relatively 102  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 114 --- low altitude." 29 American  long-range,  heavy bombers would be much better armed and fly at much higher altitudes. Their tight formations  and concentrated  firepower  would provide an adequate defense. Hansell also had newfound faith in the British  ability  to hold out, even in the face of the prospect of imminent  Soviet collapse. As he later wrote..."a  tour in England as an observer  of the war convinced  me Britain would fight and go on fighting  so long as there was one ray of hope. We would supply that ray."30 29 Hansell, Air War Plan , 53. 30 Hansell, Strategic  Air War, 53.The world situation in the summer of 1941 was truly desperate. The Soviet Union appe