, Air Plan , 51.Hansell divided the world into theaters and collected intelligence  on the interior of the selected countries themselves  in order to prepare  air operations  against specific targets. He and his newly-acquired  experts set out to study the industrial-economic  structure  of Nazi Germany  by focusing on electric  power, steel production,  petroleum  products, the aircraft  industry, and transportation  systems. The problems presented  by this project  were exacerbated  by a limited  budget and the fact that Germany  was already  at war and thus under a cloak of secrecy. 18 Major Moss suggested  concentrating  on the electric  plants and systems as primary  targets in an air war against Germany. He recalled that since many United States banks had 97  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 109 --- underwritten  the construction  of electric facilities  in pre­ Nazi Germany that the banks would have drawings and specifications  of such targets . Hansell  was delighted  because Moss had "tapped a gold mine." They used the bank sources along with scientific  journals and trade magazines to put together  a comprehensive  study of the German electric power system, including  aiming points and bomb sizes . Progress  on petroleum  and synthetic  oil plants was made partly through  the same sources and partly through individuals  who had worked in Germany , Romania, and the Middle East . After much effort, this shoestring  intelligence  operation  had produced target folders on all the major target systems . Without an extensive intelligence  network, adequate funding, or adequate support Hansell had accomplished  a most difficult  task indeed. 19 19 Hansell, Air Plan , 51-52; Fabyanic , 51. 20 Hansell, Hopper Interview.Hansell's  efforts  were not necessarily  appreciated  at the time. When his staff prepared  a project to survey the Burma Road to explore the possibilities  of supplying  China in order to conduct air operations , the War Department  G-2 Sect