mbat box of eighteen  aircraft,  which was the smallest  unit for defensive  purposes  and the largest that could be handled on the bomb run. Hansell then created two tactical combat wings of three combat boxes each. These were tactical  units which were led by the senior group commanders  and did not affect the administration  of the 1st Bomb Wing . Colonel LeMay commanded the 101st Combat Wing and Colonel Armstrong commanded  the 102nd. 62 62 Hansell,  Air Plan , 113-118;  Hansell, "Notes of a Bomber Commander, " 3 ; Craven and Cate, 11, 266-267.Before the war bombing practice was by individual sighting  runs by individual  aircraft — in theory this would produce the greatest  accuracy. Peacetime  theory also called for the bombers to weave from side to side and at varying altitudes to avoid enemy aircraft and anti-aircraft  fire . These practices  would not work in actual combat . With the combat boxes and wings being utilized, Hansell standardized 168  File: --- griffith_hansell.pdf --- Page 180 --- the practice  of bombing  on the leader . This would provide the greatest  bombing accuracy  while producing  the most effective defensive fire . Each combat box would separate from its combat wing at the initial point, complete  the bomb run, and reassemble  at the rally point . The lead bombardier  of each combat box would control the bomb run and all aircraft  in the combat box would release their bombs when he did.63 64 63 Hansell, "Notes of a Bomber Commander, " 6-7; Hansell, Air Plan , 118; Craven and Cate, II, 272. 64 Hansell, Air Plan , 122. 65 Ibid, 123.In the absence of fighter escort, the heavy bombers had to be self-defending . Close formations  were essential  for that defensive  fire, but Hansell soon learned  that the gunnery in the 1st Wing was lacking. He found the gunners to be "woefully  ill-trained"  and sought to remedy the situation  by establishing  a gunnery school . The British Air Ministry provided  a site where war-weary  B-17s could tow ta