me.   Advocates at ACTS quickly seized on the new capabilities to proclaim that the bomber was becoming an unstoppable force.  This married nicely with the new emphasis on thinking of air power in the theoretical sense, not constrained by the current budgets, technology, or political restraints.  In the minds of the bomber advocates at ACTS, advances like the Martin B-10 bomber became stepping stones to thinking about how to use the next generation of four-engine bombers.  This openness to new ideas spread like wildfire throughout the Air Corps and helped transition strategic bombing theory to the early stages of strategic bombing doctrine. As might be expected, the theoretical focus while helping overcome many limitations, also created potential problems.  Yet, in the end, the work done between 1926 and 1934 proved of critical importance to the evolution of both the bomber as a weapon and strategic bombing as a doctrine.  If Billy Mitchell and Edgar Gorrell had laid the foundations for bombing in World War I and its aftermath, this new generation of air power thinkers at ACTS, the Material Division, and the Air Corps staff created the skeleton that would hold the flesh of strategic bombing doctrine leading up to World War II.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 244 --- 238     Chapter 9  The Triumph of the Bomber Advocates   By the beginning of 1934, American military aviation once again appeared ripe for change.  The rise of Hitler in Europe and the growing threat from Japan in the Far East swayed some political opposition.  Similarly, the Army’s approval of the new GHQ AF command seemed to indicate that senior leaders started to understand and perhaps even accept the new possibilities of long-range bombing.  Finally, technology had evolved to where it not only matched the dreams of bomber advocates, but also started to surpass them.  Unfortunately, this was more mirage than fact.  Advances in organization, budgets, and technology often hid a more troubling rea