Aero Squadron started flying combat missions in March 1916.  Gorrell and the other squadron pilots became dissatisfied with their aircraft and the missions they were given.  While this experience may have remained a localized concern, the grumblings of the aviators eventually became known in the halls of power in Washington.  Thus, Mexico served as an alarm clock for not only the pilots, but also for senior leaders as to the poor state of American military aviation preparedness.    This clock first rang on 19 March 1916, when the 1st Aero Squadron received orders to deploy to Nueva Casas Grandes.  Desiring to complete the move that day and restart observation missions the following morning, Foulois ordered his pilots to fly their aircraft to Nueva Casas Grandes, while the enlisted men packed the trucks and convoyed overnight to meet them.  Unfortunately, the squadron’s and its commander’s lack of experience combined to create a near disaster.  Foulois’s inexperience caused him to take the additional risk of an overnight deployment, when there was no external pressure for such a quick move.  Meanwhile, the squadron’s greenness meant that flight planning and equipment packing took much longer than expected.  The pilots did not depart from Columbus until 5:10 PM.  The delay meant that much of the flight occurred in darkness.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 37 --- 31 While some of the pilots had experience flying at night, none of them had flown long distances over sparsely inhabited territory in the dark.  The flight to Nueva Casas Grandes became the second life-changing moment for Gorrell.  From the start, things went awry.  Weighed down with fuel and personal baggage, Gorrell’s aircraft barely cleared a fence at the end of the field.34  The bad luck did not stop there.  As darkness fell, Gorrell lost sight of the other aviators in his formation.  He attempted to navigate alone, but became hopelessly lost over the darkened desert.  When he realized his predicam