mbing.  The hard-won lessons the previous year remained intact and survived until the bombing’s renewal in 1917.  Additionally, the British learned important lessons through the limited operations of 3 Wing that shaped British aviation strategy when the government once again called on its long-range bomber forces.  The Renewal of Strategic Bombing, 1917  Even though the great offensives of 1916 exhausted all sides, the relentless attrition continued into 1917.  All air forces prepared themselves for even more sacrifice as the war dragged on without an end in sight.  Nevertheless, change was in the wind.  On the allied side, April brought a tremendous psychological setback for the French when their army mutinied after the abortive attack on Chemin des Dames.  Meanwhile, the entry of the Americans into the war on 6 April 1917  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 77 --- 71 seemed finally to offer the hope of overcoming aircraft shortages.  On the other side, the Germans understood they could not win a war of attrition once the Americans arrived in force.  Therefore, they must strike at the very heart of the allied alliance before the full weight of the Americans became a factor.  On the ground this translated into preparations for a new offensive, but in the air it meant trying to knock the British out of the war once and for all.    Throughout 1916, the German Navy never forgot about its efforts to attack Britain directly.  Led by the energetic Chief of the Naval Airship Division, Capt. Peter Strasser, the Navy continually pushed for larger zeppelins and more raids on England.  Following the success of his Liverpool raid on 31 January 1916, Strasser proposed a new strategic effort against England to be carried out by larger and higher-flying zeppelins.101  Unfortunately for Strasser, a combination of Verdun, the Somme, and Jutland disrupted his plans and required the services of many of his zeppelins.   By the autumn of 1916, the situation started to change.  With t