this environment, air power had to adapt to survive.  One of the first casualties was strategic bombing.  The Air Service quickly realized that public support and congressional funding required new missions to justify buying aircraft.  Mitchell provided this justification when he used air power to challenge the Navy with his claim that airplanes could protect American coastlines more effectively than costly fleets.  His brash tones and skill at catching the public’s imagination worked on at least one level, as the Air Service grew in size during the 1920s.   This new coast defense mission provided the justification for continued military investment in long-range bombers.  While budget realities kept investments small, it meant two important steps for strategic bombing.  First, bomber technology continued to advance even if it did so in small steps.  Next, bomber strategy also continued to evolve.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 280 --- 274 While the focus was no longer on strategic bombing, a dedicated strategy school like ACTS allowed theoretical development to continue, which proved critical in the next decade.  In the late-1920s the strategic bombing story took an interesting turn.  The civilian aviation industry became a key shaping force with Charles Lindbergh’s famous flight and America’s fascination with the potential of civilian aviation creating a need for a safe and reliable long-range aircraft.  This requirement spurred a series of technical and organizational advances that coincided with strategic bombing’s requirement for a capable long-range bomber.  At the same time, bombing theory reawakened at ACTS, where the strategy school’s policy of open idea exchanges and critical debate led a small group of instructors and students to rediscover strategic bombing theory.  Working without the theoretical limitations of budgets or political realities, these officers explored the potential uses of long-range bombers.  In doing so, they updated Gorrell’s id