combat roles spelled the end of any potential strategic campaigns in 1918.    Instead, a more balanced aerial strategy based on the traditional view of air power as a supporting element of ground forces came to dominate.  Mitchell utilized this strategy to win a double battle.  First, he successfully wrested control of the air from the hard-pressed German air forces.  Then, he won a perhaps more difficult battle.  Mitchell  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 151 --- 145 convinced the majority of ground commanders that his vision of a semi-independent air service supporting a ground-centric war was the proper air strategy to use.  Interestingly, this did not spell the end of strategic bombing as an option in the U.S. military.  Continued pressure from the British helped keep the idea alive within elements of the AEF and the Air Service.  By late 1918, facing diminishing resistance and an expected surplus of aircraft in 1919, the AEF leadership once again showed openness to strategic campaigns.  Luckily, Gorrell had been working behind the scenes to secure the production of long-range bombers and the training of their aircrews.  While there was still a hesitancy to conduct any campaign outside American-approved lines, it seemed 1919 might be the year when strategic bombing would once and for all prove itself in combat.  Of course, the end of the war stopped this effort, forever leaving the lingering question of whether or not strategic bombing could have worked.  Future airmen would have to answer that question.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 152 --- 146     Chapter 6  Solidifying Doctrine Through History    Despite the trials and tribulations of strategic bombing advocates, in the end, events during the war may have had less effect on the future of aviation than on how the participants codified their understandings of those events and the lessons passed on to future generations.  Many of the young men who fought in the skies over Europe rapidly returned to