re now in the right place at the right moment.  Having moved to planning assignments on the Air Corps staff, men such Harold George, Kenneth Walker, Haywood Hansell, Hoyt Vandenberg, and Laurence Kuter became the instruments of strategic bombing’s final triumph when they turned a decade of theoretical work into the first American operational strategic bombing plan in August 1941. In this way, the story of strategic bombing is not that of any one person or any one causal factor.  Instead, it is a twisting tale of individual efforts, competing priorities, organizational infighting, budget limitations and most important technological integration.  At no point in the story was strategic bombing preordained or destined to succeed.  In every era, the theory had to survive critical challenges.  Its eventual rise to dominance at the start of World War II perhaps best sums up the story of strategic bombing’s evolution.  Having survived a myriad of challenges, the combination of external threats and internal political support finally overcame organizational conservatism just as the technology matured to match the vision at the exact moment that  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 282 --- 276 critical theorists were in the proper place to transform theory into reality.  Now it was time to turn the nation’s attention to the final test of this aviation doctrine in a planned and supported combat operation in the skies over Germany and Japan.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 283 --- 277      References   Manuscript and Archival Material  Air Force Historical Research Agency, Maxwell AFB, AL. Anderson, Orvil A. Papers. Andrews, Frank M. Papers. Arnold, Henry H.  Papers. Caproni, Gianni Papers. Fairchild, Muir S. Papers. Foulois, Benjamin D. Papers. Hansell, Haywood S. Jr. Papers. Kuter, Laurence S. Papers. Records of the United States Air Force.  British National Archives, London Air Ministry and Royal Air Force Records, reference AIR 1.  National Archives and Records Admi