ick also testified.  Through highly publicized newspaper coverage, a general understanding of four problem areas for the Air Service emerged in the testimony.  These were the Air Service’s structural role in the army, the overlapping of responsibilities with the navy, inadequate funding, and the degradation of the civilian  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 212 --- 206 aviation industry.331  As the committee discussed these issues with different witnesses, and publicized its hearings many observers concluded that Lampert’s final report would side with the Army Air Service and recommend independence and the creation of a department of national defense with army, navy, and air forces under it. The potential restructuring of the national security system and an independent air force was too much for the newly elected President Calvin Coolidge.  In September 1925, he decided to preempt the Lampert Committee and conduct his own investigative board.  Coolidge appointed his friend and former Amherst College classmate Dwight D. Morrow to lead the President’s Aircraft Board, commonly known as the Morrow Board.  As an outside businessman Morrow seemed independent, but in reality he was a man with a mission.   Similar to the Lassiter Board, Morrow began with Patrick’s plan for the Air Service as a starting point for debate.  By doing so, he effectively limited the talk of total independence or a new national security structure because Patrick’s vision focused on autonomy, not independence.  Even so, there was no shortage of senior army officers testifying that Patrick’s plan conflicted with unity of command or simply cost too much to implement.332 The Morrow Board proceeded rapidly and released its final report on 2 December 1925, a full two weeks before the Lampert Committee released its findings.  In doing so, the president succeeded in taking the wind out of the congressional committee’s sails.  Far from advocating independence, the Morrow Board denied autonomy, citing u