g of how this new technology would one day challenge the traditional understanding of warfare.  As the machinery evolved in both America and across the Atlantic, airplanes spurred the imagination of military thinkers and civilian dreamers alike.  During the horror of World War I, air power promised to break the deadly trench stalemate through a combination of industrial infrastructure and terror bombing.  While the war ended before the technology was capable of matching theory, the concept survived to influence a future generation of aviation leaders.  The process was slow, as economic problems, political support, and organizational rivalries combined to shunt long-range bombing to the periphery of military thought.  Fortuitously, bombers proved elastic enough to morph into more acceptable missions like coast defense and later hemisphere security.  This enabled the technology to survive until the world situation once again changed and America needed a strategic theory to counter a major peer competitor.    While many histories search for simplicity or primary causal factors, this dissertation embraces the complexity of reality.   Strategic bombing was not the work of one person or the result of a linear progression.  Instead, the complex interaction among theorists, technology, organizations, and politics explains the true story of strategic  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 18 --- 12 bombing.  Within the twists and turns of those conflicting priorities and evolutions is a story of technological transformation that turned a new invention into a tool for warfare and later a strategy that forever changed how America viewed and exercised its military might.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 19 --- 13     Chapter 2:  A Late Night Wake Up Call in Mexico   It was a cold brisk spring evening when Lt. Edgar Gorrell found himself hopelessly lost in the ever-darkening skies of northern Mexico on March 19, 1916.  It had only been a few short hours since his unit, the