an on how the participants codified their understandings of those events and the lessons passed on to future generations.  Many of the young men who fought in the skies over Europe rapidly returned to civilian life when hostilities ended.  With their departure, a treasure trove of operational experience also left the military.  To add to the problem, with each passing year new ideas and understandings replaced wartime experiences.    This lesson was not lost on the AEF Air Service.  Many of its officers desired to encapsulate their experiences, lessons, and theories into documents to pass to the next generation.  The question was how to accomplish the task.  Previous examples from Army history pointed to a myriad of different techniques.  Lessons-learned repositories were often turned into standard operating procedures for units to incorporate into their daily training cycles.  Another more tried and true Army method was to organize material into operational manuals that defined problems, provided doctrinal solutions, and formed the core of Army thinking in the early twentieth century.  Authoring a new manual for the air service seemed a perfect way to capture the important elements learned in combat.  Yet, there were problems with this technique.  Manuals were notoriously focused on daily operations, often at the expense of background information that explained why a particular tactic, policy, or course of action was the best choice.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 153 --- 147  To help alleviate the problem, the Air Service Chief, Maj. Gen. Mason Patrick decided to add another less utilized methodology.  Shortly after the war ended, he ordered a large history of the AEF Air Service to be compiled, which would include inputs from all officers.239  At the time, this must have seemed like an unwieldy way to turn experience into doctrine.  Operational manuals were much smaller and easier to use in everyday training.  On the other hand, there was little chance of