ched the dreams of bomber advocates, but also started to surpass them.  Unfortunately, this was more mirage than fact.  Advances in organization, budgets, and technology often hid a more troubling reality.  Strategic bombing was largely a theoretical exercise almost solely taking place in Montgomery, Alabama.  There were only a handful of heavy bombers in the Air Corps to add substance to the theory.  To make matters worse, debate still raged inside the Air Corps itself, as some officers contended that a pursuit-heavy counter-air mission was the best aerial strategy.  Perhaps most troubling, the advances in military aviation caused a corresponding reaction from Army officers opposed to autonomy.  They saw any aerial mission that justified greater independence as a direct threat to a traditional ground-centric Army.  Strengthened by new senior leadership, these men focused their efforts on eliminating the core aviation technology offering greater autonomy: the heavy bomber.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 245 --- 239  It only took a catalyst to set the opposing forces into a fight for the future of American military aviation doctrine.  That catalyst turned out to be the seemingly supportive changes brought about by political, organizational, and technological developments from 1934 to 1936.  While on the surface these changes supported the development of heavy bombers and a new strategy to use them, they also caused resentment and a feeling in the opponents of air power autonomy that they had to strike now or never.  The clash of these forces may have determined the fate of strategic bombing except for one critical world event, the start of World War II.  The war changed everything for strategic bombing advocates.  It relieved Army opposition, fostered political and budgetary support, and finally forced the Air Corps to draft a formal doctrine in the shape of an initial war plan.   Political, Organizational, and Technological Change, 1934-1936 The intertwining