w these advocates kept the concepts alive in the war’s immediate aftermath by incorporating bombing theory into a series of operational manuals and the Air Service’s official history.  Having transitioned to the position of AEF Air Service Chief of Staff, Gorrell now took on the responsibility of completing the official history.  In this role, he ensured the core elements of strategic bombing survived by writing a chapter describing his bombing plan and including a survey of Allied bombing efforts against German industry.  When combined, these two sections provided future theorists with background information and statistical data to support their own concepts.  Gorrell’s efforts appear well founded, as strategic bombing was largely lost in the military drawdowns and tight budgets of the 1920s.  Chapter seven traces the political, economic, and service rivalries that modified American aerial thought and pushed strategic bombing out of the military’s lexicon.  Instead, Mitchell’s fight for Air Service  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 16 --- 10 independence occupied center stage.  Bombing was still part of this design, but with no peer competitor nation threatening American security, strategic bombing fell out of favor as coast defense took the prominent role for America’s remaining bombers.  Many historians see the Air Corps Act of 1926 as the turning point for strategic bombing, contending that the autonomy it granted allowed a revival of strategic bombing theory.  Chapter eight argues this is a misguided interpretation.  The concept of strategic bombing was almost completely absent from Army policy during the Air Corps era.  The lack of adequate budgets, a defensive national security policy, and rapid technological change all coalesced to stalemate strategic bombing advocates.  Instead, the Air Corps Act created small independent pockets of theoretical development.  While these mainly focused on using bombers in coast defense, in the quiet backwaters of ACTS a