, AFHRA, Maxwell AFB, AL.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 249 --- 243 create a group of Air Corps’ officers who could work directly with industry to design the next generation of military aircraft.  Consequently, the Air Mail Fiasco turned out to be a long-term boon for the Air Corps.  By bringing the poor state of aviation technology and training to the forefront, the Baker Board spurred investment and structural change.  This was not immediate, though.  As with the previous bodies, the Baker Board’s recommendations came with no funds; however, the findings did provide political support that helped the Air Corps in the coming budgetary and organizational battles.   Whereas political changes may have set the ball in motion, the resulting organizational modifications were also critical to the success of strategic bombing.  It was only with the creation of new structures that the Air Corps finally had the capability to turn theory into something practical.  The first of these changes occurred on 31 December 1934 when the War Department ordered the standup of the GHQ AF.   To meet the order, the Air Corps commanded the 2nd Bombardment Wing to conduct an exercise in the first week of April 1935 to test GHQ AF organization and control concepts that combined bombardment, attack, pursuit, and observation aircraft as a self-contained force operating from one location.  While many senior leaders considered this the proper model, the exercise showed severe logistical problems associated with basing multiple aircraft types together.  Wing commander Col. John Curry’s after-action review minced few words, indicating that the concepts of constantly moving aircraft forward and building giant multiaircraft bases were grossly outdated.  Instead, he pointed out that new advances in flight ranges and communications meant  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 250 --- 244 aircraft could operate from many bases well behind the lines and still achieve mass over critical targets.40