logy impaired the ability of the Air Corps to develop new bomber designs.  The state of flux meant it simply was a question of should America invest in aircraft that would be obsolete before they became operational or should it wait on promised new technology before spending large sums from preciously small acquisition budgets.  At places like ACTS and the Air Corps Material Division, theorists and engineers explored how air power might be used in the future without the constraints of current budgets, political support, or technological limitations.  By throwing off the shackles of current reality, these innovators shaped the future of air power towards their own visions with the idea that technology and policy would eventually catch up.  While there were still many political and budgetary battles to come, the advances of the late 1920s and early 1930s set the stage for the advent of the strategic bombing age.  America Catches the Aviation Bug, 1926-1928  The year 1926 was important for military aviation.  Passage of the Air Corps Act helped instill a sense of accomplishment among many airmen.  While they may not have achieved the independence they advocated, the act offered a level of autonomy that helped alleviate many airmen’s immediate concerns.  In this new environment, they started to turn their attention back to other important questions, such as the proper use of air power in warfare and determining the technology needed by the Army’s newest service element:  This sparked a creative period in both strategic thought and  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 218 --- 212 technological advancement as America’s best military minds focused on new priorities in the post-Mitchell era.  Within a year, the American public began to rally behind its newest hero, an almost unknown young aviator from Minnesota who alone in a single-seat airplane succeeded where many had failed.  On the day and night of 20-21 May 1927, Charles Lindbergh crossed the Atlantic Ocean and fore