S. Air Service in World War I, Vol. III, 1. 258 Milling Biographical Note, undated, Call# 168.7006-47, IRIS# 125903, in the Maj. Gen. (Ret.) Orvil A. Anderson papers, AFHRA, Maxwell AFB, AL.   259 Memorandum to the Chief of the Air Service, 9 January 1919, Sec A-15, in Gorrell history, 5.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 165 --- 159 penetrated their airspace, they inevitably reacted by launching fighters to intercept them.  Milling indicated this turned out to be a win-win tactic for the Americans, as the bombers proceeded to their targets unmolested, while the fighters engaged and shot down the often-elusive Germans.260  Milling then turned his attention to technological problems.  Whereas Gorrell explored the larger issue of industrial production failures, Milling focused on one specific shortcoming, a design flaw with the De Havilland DH-4 daylight bomber that caused tremendous morale issues with its crews in the later stages of the war.  Unprotected gas tanks on the DH-4 often ignited into raging fires when struck by antiaircraft artillery or machine gun fire, usually resulting in fiery deaths for any such unfortunate aircrew.  Milling pointed out that both the French and British developed protected fuel systems that almost always avoided such fires.  He questioned why the United States had not either developed its own fuel protection technology or adopted the British and French models.261   In doing so, Milling highlighted one of the major technological problems faced by the American Air Service in World War I: that is, the lack of a system to garner requirements from the field, translate them into new technologies, and then rapidly produce them.  Even more tragic for the American aviators, this problem seemed to have been already addressed by their European allies.  In his classic study of World War I technological innovation The War of Invention: Science in the Great War: 1914-1918, Historian Guy Hartcup described how both the British and French develop