r. Thomas Wildenberg.  On countless occasions, Tom’s expert subject matter knowledge and kindly guidance helped keep me on track.  I am deeply indebted to him for constantly  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 4 --- iv reminding me to look beyond the accepted storyline and seek a deeper understanding of what was going on inside the minds of the key theorists through their writings.   Given the three-year time limit imposed on me by the Air Force sponsorship, I had to rely on a great many researchers to help gather the data for this project.  The staff at the Air Force Historical Research Agency became a second family, as they helped find documents, pointed out other potentially valuable resources, and most important kept up my morale with their always-friendly banter.  While the whole staff deserves praise, Tammy Horton deserves special acknowledgment for her help in garnering electronic copies of documents.  Along the same lines, Christopher Shields of the Greenwich, Connecticut Historical Society aided the dissertation by researching and providing electronic copies of the letters of Col. Raynal Bolling from their archives.   Of course, this project would have fallen flat without the tireless support of my family.  I especially want to thank my two children, Joseph and Virginia, for enduring for too many “vacations” centered on exploring archives.  Along these same lines, my ever-suffering wife Kelly should be proclaimed an angel for her support and acceptance of a military officer with an addiction to history.  Long before this dissertation, she suffered through vacations to battlefields, museums, and historic sites.  Her loving support and sense of humor enabled me to pursue this dream and I am forever grateful.   Finally, I cannot end this section without dedicating this dissertation to my father.  Lawrence Morris kindled my love of history at an early age.  Some of my fondest memories are watching documentaries on the world wars with him.  He has been a tire