d States Army and its Air Service for the trials of World War I.  The deployment of the 1st Aero Squadron to Mexico was a wake-up call to the poor state of military aviation.  The chapter explores how this alarm bell led not only to increased spending, but also to a theoretical awakening in the minds of future strategic bombing advocates. The next chapter broadens the scope to explore how the nature of World War I influenced the development of strategic bombing theory in Europe.  It investigates the theoretical foundations established through air combat from 1914 to 1917, which the United States inherited when it entered the war.  Chapter four builds on this work by exploring how the Americans created their own version of strategic bombing theory in the summer and fall of 1917.  By tracing the linkages between the early American  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 15 --- 9 aviation leaders and their British, Italian, and French confidants, the chapter demonstrates how the Air Service aviators internalized external European lessons.   After building the theoretical foundations for American strategic bombing, chapter five analyzes how such men as Mitchell and Edgar Gorrell attempted to turn theory into workable plans for air campaigns.  It delves into Mitchell’s vision for American air power and Gorrell’s bombing plan of November 1917 as the foundational efforts to establish a strategic bombing campaign.  Despite this planning, technological shortcomings in aircraft design and production and conflicting leadership visions forced America’s military leaders to shelve strategic bombing until 1919.  Hence, the war ended before the bombing advocates could test their plans in combat.  With strategic bombing as an untested theory at the end of the war, chapter six analyzes how these advocates kept the concepts alive in the war’s immediate aftermath by incorporating bombing theory into a series of operational manuals and the Air Service’s official history.  Having transiti