ber, 11.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 226 --- 220  In this way, the combination of the Air Corps Act of 1926 and Lindbergh’s historic flight renewed the efforts of strategic bombing advocates.  Internally, they continued the slow progress of shaping air power doctrine towards a strategic mission.  Externally, the rise in civil aviation helped spur bomber design.  Still, the long-lasting problems of the early 1920s remained in place to limit what bombing advocates could achieve. The combination of budgetary woes, Army intransigence, and antiwar fervor limited the money, research, and doctrinal change in the newly established Army Air Corps.    A Changing Vision of Air Power, 1928-1930  While the first two years after the establishment of the Air Corps were an important time for air power thought, the last two years of the decade proved even more fertile.  As opposed to the beginning of the 1920s, this new period saw less attention to the question of independence and more to how air power should be used in war.  Several factors contributed to this new vision of air power, which in many ways was a return to airmen’s impressions of warfare garnered in the last year of World War I. In this environment, the role of the bomber once again dominated strategy discussions. While Westover’s 1926 manual started the switch to the bomber as the primary Air Corps weapon, ACTS’s 1928 strategy revision initiated the process of codifying that thinking into doctrine.  That year, Lt. Col. Clarence C. Culver became the new commander of ACTS, which was still located at Langley Field.  He realized the school needed a structured curriculum based on centralized doctrine accepted by the Air Corps.  Unfortunately, no such doctrine existed. Instead, the Air Corps relied on a series of disjointed strategy and tactics manuals for guidance.  Therefore, Culver decided to  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 227 --- 221 develop a baseline doctrine to utilize as an umbrella to guide the d