ombined to push strategic bombing to the periphery of military aviation.     That is not to say that strategic bombing’s evolution stopped during this era.  Instead, it continued in the shadows, often in directions that shaped the future of the Air Service and American’s national defense policy.  The new focus on coast defense spurred long-range bombing technology in ways that would one day make the vision of men like Gorrell a reality.  Additionally, mid-level airmen in out-of-the-way places on the Air Service staff and at ASTS started to lay the foundations for concepts like precision, high-altitude, and Industrial Web Theory.  Finally, the era’s political debates on air power  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 215 --- 209 brought structural changes that set the stage for the procurement and organization of heavy bombers. Perhaps it is best to think of America in this era as a nation lulled into a sense of security behind its protective oceans.  Yes, there was the remote threat from a naval fleet, but this was not likely a life-and-death issue that had to be addressed with major strategy changes.  Instead, the argument flourished over which service was best able to meet the coast defense challenge.  Still, in just one short year, the entire debate started to change.  When Charles Lindbergh succeeded in crossing the Atlantic it presaged things to come.  This one flight hinted that America needed to start thinking in terms of defending against aerial threats, and just perhaps into thinking about how to use its own air power to counter enemies that might present threats in the future.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 216 --- 210     Chapter 8   Marrying Technology and Doctrine    The Air Corps Act of 1926 was a transition point in the evolution of strategic bombing.  While the law’s architects designed it to limit Air Corps’ freedom, it had a reverse effect in its application.  Instead of restraining independent thinking, the law spurred not only new doctri