ere for interdicting rail stations, lines of communications, and supply depots.  After the war, Mitchell supported a bomber-centric Air Service, but his vision did not include using them to attack the industrial heart of an enemy nation.  Bending to political and organizational  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 275 --- 269 realities, Mitchell instead opted for long-range bombers in a coast defense role.  In his mind, this offered the best combination of military necessity and an argument for air power independence.  Hence, Mitchell cannot claim to be the father of strategic bombing, as his vision of air power evolved to match the political and military needs of the moment.  Still, Mitchell’s role in molding strategic bombing theory is too important to ignore.  He became an early acolyte for British bombing theories, which remained part of his strategic thinking throughout his professional life.  His insistence on using semi-autonomous bomber units in his World War I aerial offensives helped instill the concept of an independent strategical air campaign into the Army lexicon.  Mitchell played a perhaps even more important role after the war.  When dwindling budgets seemed to spell doom for long-range bombers, he almost single-handedly created a new mission for them: coast defense.  In doing so, Mitchell helped create a requirement for long-range bombers that eventually led to the B-17, B-24, and B-29 aircraft.  Finally, the group of officers known as the Bomber Mafia is often credited with the success of strategic bombing.  There is plenty to support this conclusion.  As instructors and staff at ACTS these men fleshed out the concept before turning their theoretical work into an operational plan in 1941.  Yet, for much of the 1930s, the Bomber Mafia was virtually separated from the larger budgetary, strategy, and organizational debates within the national defense structure.  Their isolation in Montgomery, Alabama, allowed them to work on air power theories witho