ay light bombing, precision, and industrial web theory to heavy bombers in the writings of ACTS students and instructors.  Still, much like a human faces tremendous challenges during his or her transition from adolescence to adulthood, so too did strategic bombing.  The forces of rivalry, jealousy, and budgetary woes all threatened to end the concept before it could ever prove itself during war. Facing external and internal opposition, the founding fathers of strategic bombing established strong theoretical, organizational, and technological foundations that helped the concept weather the storms of the pre-World War II environment.  While strategic bombing started this era as largely a theoretical exercise, it rapidly transitioned first to a doctrine and then to a war plan as the changing world situation started America thinking about how best to defend itself against the growing threat of Nazi Germany and militaristic Japan.   This was not a simple linear transition, as there were many obstacles that might have relegated strategic bombing to nothing more than an experimental theory.  The General Staff’s challenge could have removed the key technology required to carry out the concept.  General Craig’s new vision for the Army threatened to water down bombardment aviation to just another part of a rebuilt Army focused on ground  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 272 --- 266 offensives.  Even the Navy challenged the justification for heavy bombers by trying to take away the Air Corps’ mission for coast defense.   In the end, though, World War II and President Roosevelt’s support for aviation set the stage for strategic bombing to transition from the theoretical to the operational.  With this political support, the bomber advocates were ready to accept the challenge.  As luck would have it, these men were transitioning from ACTS into critical Air Corps staff positions.  Therefore, when the order came to develop a war plan, men with years of experience developing st