ate the soon-to-arrive American forces.  Still, the future looked promising for strategic bombing during that critical summer of 1917.  Conclusion   Into this maelstrom of aviation growth, new thinking, and political pressures the first American aviators stepped in the late spring of 1917.  The British were moving towards an independent RAF, with a strong strategic bombing element.  Yet, this was far from a done deal.  Just because the Air Board recommended the policy did not mean that the leaders of the former RFC and RNAS would drop their long-held opinions and rivalries.  Instead, proponents on both sides of the strategic bombing argument sought support for their ideas in their new allies, the Americans.   Meanwhile, the French and Italians had their own concepts they wanted to stress to the Americans.  Hurt by losses in 1916 and mutinies in 1917, the French were more focused on maintaining the morale of their people during that critical summer.  Gen.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 83 --- 77 Maurice Duval, the head of the French Air Service, noted to General Pershing that Britain’s bombing plan had “come to draw lightning, which would then strike their host.”113  This reflected the main concern of French political leadership in 1917 that British bombing of German cities would surely lead to German retaliation against French and British cities in an ever-increasing war of terror.  Therefore, the French military often guided their American counterparts towards using aviation in a more traditional role of ground support and achieving air superiority.  The Italians still viewed strategic bombing as a possible war-winning strategy, but acknowledged that the distance and terrain in the Alps forbade that strategy with current technology.  Still, the Americans could easily use their Caproni bombers to attack German industry from its more suitable bases in eastern France.  Hence, early American visitors often received a dual sales pitch for strategic bombing and t