nd budgetary support, and finally forced the Air Corps to draft a formal doctrine in the shape of an initial war plan.   Political, Organizational, and Technological Change, 1934-1936 The intertwining of political change, organizational evolution, and the rapid advance of technology in the middle of the decade set the stage for the great battle over the future of American military aviation.  Contained in each of these forces were the promise of greater aviation capabilities, but also the threat of independence that so many senior Army officers could not stomach.  In this way, events conspired to spur aviation thought and acted as a counterweight to the formation of any new doctrine. The greatest of the three dynamics was political change.  The combination of the assumption of the presidency by Franklin D. Roosevelt in March 1933 and Hitler’s ascendancy to Chancellor of Germany three months earlier started a series of events that dramatically shaped American air power.  By early 1934, Hitler had started the process of building a 500,000-man army while militaristic Japan was well on its way to asserting its  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 246 --- 240 might in the Far East.  Although the world situation did not call for drastic measures yet, many American politicians realized they could no longer ignore their forsaken military.  The shift was neither immediate nor dramatic at first, but it started a slow trend of reversing years of neglect.  For instance, in 1935, Roosevelt asked for and received the largest allocation for military spending since 1921.395   Internal dynamics from the new president’s policies also led to changes in the military.  The most important of these for strategic bombing was the airmail cancellation of 1934.  After discovering potential illegalities in awarding routes, Roosevelt decided to cancel all domestic airmail contracts on 7 February 1934.  No one knew how long the stoppage would last, but in the interim, the president needed to ke