pable of single-handedly creating strategic bombing.  This is not to say that individuals are not critical.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 274 --- 268 A quick review of the three most important American strategic bombing theorists shows their importance, but also their limitations as causal factors. Edgar Gorrell may have the best claim to fatherhood based on his November 1917 plan and his efforts to embed bombing theory into the official history of the war.  His bombing plan modified a British theory into something acceptable to the often-conservative American Army.  If the strategic bombing campaign planned for 1919 would have been executed, Gorrell may have achieved military stardom, but the war’s conclusion in November 1918 forever condemned him to the back pages of military aviation history.  He may have only been a minor footnote except for his work compiling the official history of the AEF Air Service in World War I that contained two sections codifying the core elements of strategic bombing theory.  Gorrell even returned to the story in the 1930s through his correspondence with Air Corps officers and his participation in aviation boards.  Thus, while Gorrell cannot claim to have created the concept of strategic bombing, without him it could not have developed as it did.    Despite Gorrell’s efforts, Billy Mitchell is the American most associated with creating the independent air force and strategic bombing doctrine.  Unfortunately, this association proves false under scrutiny.  While Mitchell’s early writings from the summer of 1917 seem to support the British concept of strategic bombing, his later aerial campaigns at St. Mihiel and the Meuse-Argonne are more in line with an operational ground-support role.  Mitchell’s plans required bombers, but they were for interdicting rail stations, lines of communications, and supply depots.  After the war, Mitchell supported a bomber-centric Air Service, but his vision did not include using them to attack the