rey Perret, Winged Victory: The Army Air Forces in World War II (New York: Random House, 1993), 240.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 8 --- 2 When married to the concept of the industrialized nation, airplanes offered the ability to strike strategically.  No longer did nations have to grapple with an enemy’s army or navy to win a war.  With aviation, they could avoid those costly endeavors and attack directly at their industrial heart using long-range bombers.  Thus, a new technology spurred fresh thinking that offered a revolutionary vision of warfare. There were practical problems with converting a technological innovation into a new form of warfare, though.  First, not everyone agreed that air power was transformational.  Many military and political leaders saw aircraft as only one more component of their traditional naval and ground schemes.  In their minds, airplanes did not change warfare; they merely provided new capabilities to support tried and true strategies.  Next, as with any new technology, the first design evolutions often failed to match expectations.  For aviation to transform warfare, technology had to advance to meet the speculative visions.  Finally, the theorists’ conceptions had to be turned into a workable doctrine.  While H. G. Wells could depict large aerial fleets laying waste to enemy cities, military professionals knew that for air power to be transformational it required organization, training, funding, and logistics planned out in an accepted strategic doctrine. In this way, a long-lasting argument over the proper role of air power in national security started in the early American Air Service.  The debate contained two equally important questions: should air power be independent, and what was the best way to employ it?  This dilemma was evident in the first Air Service doctrinal manual written by Maj. William C. Sherman in 1921.  He wrote, “In deriving the doctrine that must underlie all principles of employment of the air force,