h, British, and Italian allies espoused. Gorrell, Mitchell, Parker and others took to these new doctrines like fish to water, immersing themselves in the debates and actively seeking out the European experts.      In this way, early American bombing strategy became an amalgamation of European ideas and American theories.  Gorrell’s strategic bombing plan of 28 November 1917 was the best example of this new vision.  His proposed bombing campaign seemed to win quick support from AEF leadership as both Foulois and Pershing rapidly approved the plan.  Foulois then promoted Gorrell to the position of Commander, Strategical Aviation in the Zone of Advance on 3 December 1917 to oversee the preparations and execution of his plan.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 119 --- 113  By January 1918, it seemed Gorrell was a rising star in the AEF Air Service.  Yet the hard realties of war were about to affect his plans.  Just as the earlier French and British strategic bombing advocates ran afoul of the great battles of Verdun and the Somme, so too would the Americans during the Ludendorff Offensive.  The tremendous expenditures of military might first to stop the Germans and then to start the slow process of pushing them back effectively precluded any strategic bombing campaigns in 1918.    Still, the idea of a strategic campaign never totally died in the American Air Service.  Instead, its advocates continued to work with their allies and proposed new plans to the AEF staff.  While this proved a difficult process, with pressure from the British to mount a bomber offensive and a planned surplus of aircraft in 1919, the Americans finally started to turn their attention back to bombing in the fall of 1918.  What would have happened in such a campaign remains a mystery, though, as the armistice on 11 November 1918 ended the war before any concrete actions were taken.  Gorrell’s Strategic Bombing Plans  After Gorrell’s promotion to Commander of Strategical Aviation in the Zone of