ombing theory.  Working without the theoretical limitations of budgets or political realities, these officers explored the potential uses of long-range bombers.  In doing so, they updated Gorrell’s ideas with the inclusion of Industrial Web Theory, centralized control, and high-altitude precision daylight bombing.  With the theoretical underpinnings ready, all that remained was for the political will and organizational support to shift to strategic bombing.  The changing world situation of the mid-1930s played the largest role in removing both of these hurdles.  European fascism and Japanese expansionist imperialism in Asia modified the baseline calculus of American national defense policy.  Understanding that the United States needed a strong, but affordable counterweight to Axis aggression, President Roosevelt turned to air power.  Organizational context was slower to adapt.  The traditional fight between the Army General Staff and the Air Corps continued well into the 1930s.  As  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 281 --- 275 late as 1939, the General Staff appeared to have the upper hand, cancelling all heavy bomber procurement plans.  Luckily for strategic bombing advocates, the dire threat of Nazi aggression and the political support of Roosevelt combined to overcome Army resistance.  First subtly in verbal support and later in direct orders, the president ensured that America focused on building a large heavy bomber force to threaten Germany.   With the issue of American air power direction resolved, the final step was to turn theory into an actual war plan.  Once again the role of the individual rose to prominence, as the members of the Bomber Mafia who had spent much of the last decade theorizing, debating, and working out the details of strategic bombing were now in the right place at the right moment.  Having moved to planning assignments on the Air Corps staff, men such Harold George, Kenneth Walker, Haywood Hansell, Hoyt Vandenberg, and Laurence Kute