explain strategic bombing’s evolution.  Two examples highlight the problems with organizational culture as the principal causal factor.  First, despite the public attention to Mitchell’s fight with the Navy, interservice rivalries remained tense but largely irrelevant for most of the interwar years.  At no point did the competition dramatically affect Air Corps budgets or its ability to acquire new aircraft.  National economic pressures were much more important to military aviation  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 277 --- 271 budgets than were interservice conflicts.  Additionally, even the much discussed fight between the Army and its Air Service for autonomy proves opaque on closer scrutiny.  At times senior army leaders supported bombers (MacArthur) and at times they opposed them (Craig).  Sometimes an individual leader appeared to bend both ways, as with Pershing’s early acceptance of Gorrell’s strategic bombing plan, but his later refusal to send American squadrons to fight alongside the British Independence Force.  While these forces definitely shaped the evolution of air power, they in no way can claim primary causality.  Finally, the issue of political pressure is once again a mixed bag.  Whereas Roosevelt’s policies from 1939 to the start of World War II demonstrated his critical role in bringing strategic bombing to the forefront of national strategy, his earlier political decisions often limited the development of long-range bombers and strategic bombing theory.  Along similar lines, attention to isolationism and progressivism’s focus on technology, efficiency, and reform appears overstated.  Yes, both forces influenced political decisions, but they can only explain so much.  Despite the national pressure for isolationism in the early 1920s, Air Service budgets never saw the drastic cuts that other military branches felt.  Similarly, it is hard to prove progressivism had anything but a minor effect on the mindsets of military planners in ways that m