that pioneering sense towards a new military field with great possibilities.  His experiences in Mexico tempered his adventurism and taught him skills in the more mundane, but equally important areas of logistics, engineering, and planning.  Perhaps even more important, Mexico taught Gorrell to think for himself and to remain open to new ideas and concepts.  Finally, MIT cemented his professional credentials.  In this way, Gorrell proved the perfect combination of aviator, engineer, and planner needed by the Army to prepare its Aviation Section for entry into the war in Europe.  Conclusion  While most people probably do not think of 1903 to 1916 as a formative time for U.S. strategic bombing theory, the era is remarkably important.  This early stage laid the technical, organizational, and doctrinal foundations that air strategists built on when the United States entered World War I.  Like any other foundation, this one had advantages in some areas, while limitations in others.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 46 --- 40  In terms of technology, the era was a mixed bag.  Funding problems delayed the acquisition of new aircraft and the modification of designs to meet military needs.  This led to a weak aircraft industry and military aviation procurement system that was severely overtaxed when asked to produce large numbers of more capable aircraft.  Even after funding was no longer an issue in the robust budgets of 1916 onwards, problems with aircraft production remained.  As the old saying goes, you cannot buy back wasted time.  Military aviation definitely felt the sting of this rule.  Aircraft producers simply could not ramp up production fast enough to fill the growing air service requirements in World War I.  Thus, Army leaders had to prioritize which types of aircraft to build first.  With observation and pursuit aircraft to protect them the highest priority, bomber production remained low until 1918.  This foundational issue dramatically limited the effort