that prevented its full adoption by the eve of World War II.  First, an Army resistant to change limited independent long-range bombing operations.  Next, political exigencies hampered the use of aviation in a strategic context.  This pressure came from all directions with the French professing caution in the face of German retaliation, the British clamoring for revenge for German bombing, and American politicians expressing distaste for bombing civilian population centers.  Finally, the technology itself proved a deterrence.  There was simply not enough industrial or engineering capability to produce the required bombers before 1919.  Even when aircraft production began to improve, the early bomber’s range, payload, and accuracy shortcomings hindered any real chance of success.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 279 --- 273  In the end, the Armistice may have saved strategic bombing.  Without an actual campaign to measure the theory’s success, the idea lived on to fight another day.  At this point in the story, Edgar Gorrell was a central figure who ensured the theory survived.  The inclusion of his bombing plan in the official Air Service history formally embedded strategic bombing’s core concepts in a relatively easy to reference document for future aviation theorists.   Gorrell’s actions proved timely, as the changing political context of the 1920s saw strategic bombing almost completely disappear from the military vocabulary.  With the war over and Germany defeated, there was no longer a peer competitor threatening America to justify the tremendous cost of large bomber fleets.  When this international context combined with the return of traditional internally focused political priorities, it meant a rapid military drawdown and extremely tight Army budgets.  In this environment, air power had to adapt to survive.  One of the first casualties was strategic bombing.  The Air Service quickly realized that public support and congressional funding required new mi