cates, the war also intervened to hinder their plans.  Just as with the French at Verdun, the Somme became an all-consuming vortex, which captured the full might of the British military.  In this all-out effort, strategic bombing not only became a low priority, but a cause for concern.  Simmering rivalries between the RNAS and RFC came to the surface in the fight for resources against the backdrop of the Somme.  In this interservice conflict, critical technology, organization, and doctrinal issues came to the forefront that had to be addressed.  The RFC spent the early part of 1916 preparing for the Somme offensive.  Virtually all of its attention was focused on building up forces, preparing the  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 71 --- 65 battlefield through interdiction missions, and conducting reconnaissance of German activities.  This left strategic bombing to the RNAS, which was ready to expand its antizeppelin campaign into a much larger strategic bombing effort.   In May1916, the British Admiralty ordered Capt. W. L. Elder to stand up RNAS 3 Wing at Luxeuil twenty-five miles northwest of Belfort.  Elder quickly realized that this location did not meet the needs of the new wing, so he convinced the Admiralty to move the wing to Ochey near Nancy in late June.91  This new locations placed the wing within range of many industrial targets in western Germany, but it also put it in the middle of many French and RFC bases.  The idea of a sixty-aircraft naval wing operating the new Sopwith 1 ½ Strutters in central France was likely to touch sensitive nerves in the RFC.  The Admiralty fully understood the danger and only allowed the unit to become operational after the Navy obtained the consent of the BEF Commander.  On 3 June 1916, GHQ released this statement, “The C-in-C sees no need to object in any way to long distance bombing being undertaken by the Royal Naval Air Service, with the proviso that any such bombing undertaken in the area behind the German lines i