y and political policies in large part determined aerial strategy in the interwar years.  In the United States and Britain a desire to bring the fight directly to the enemy without the need for ground invasions led to a focus on strategic bombing.  Meanwhile, Germany and France accepted the need for a ground war and directed aviation towards operational support.  Finally, the Japanese and U.S. Navies preferred a more tactical dive and torpedo-bomber maritime aviation doctrine to help fight their expected great naval battles in the Pacific.   While these books greatly contribute to a better understanding of strategic bombing’s evolution, there was still something missing in the historiography.  No  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 14 --- 8 detailed and comprehensive analysis integrating the efforts of individuals, technology, organizational influences, and social context exists.  Therefore, this dissertation will reassess the origins of strategic bombing and provide a comprehensive analysis explaining the interplay of the different causal forces.  Using the British aviation historian Neville Jones’s masterpiece The Origins of Strategic Bombing: A Study of the Development of British Air Strategic Thought and Practice up to 1918 as a model, the dissertation uses a chronological approach, interspersing the actions of critical individuals against the backdrop of larger contextual factors and world events.  In this way, it seeks a new understanding of the origins of American strategic bombing by exploring how outside factors such as political pressures, economic stresses, and organizational conflicts intertwined to shape strategic bombing during its evolution in World War I and the interwar years. Chapter two explores how the Mexican Expedition of 1916 prepared the United States Army and its Air Service for the trials of World War I.  The deployment of the 1st Aero Squadron to Mexico was a wake-up call to the poor state of military aviation.  The chapter explores how