ng advocates.  Instead, the Air Corps Act created small independent pockets of theoretical development.  While these mainly focused on using bombers in coast defense, in the quiet backwaters of ACTS and the Air Corps Material Division the newfound freedom allowed individual theorists and engineers to explore how air power might be used in the future without the constraints of budgets, political support, or technological limitations.  Outside the political glare of Washington, this allowed the Air Corps vision of long-range bombing once again to drift towards strategic ends.    Chapter nine concludes the dissertation by turning the traditional strategic bombing storyline on its head.  Whereas, the conventional version of events describes the late 1930s as a period of triumph, it was actually the greatest trial faced by the strategic bombing.  A resurgent Army General Staff supported by a new Chief of Staff dedicated to rebuilding the conventional combat branches nearly eliminated the primary technology required for strategic bombing: the heavy bomber.  It was only the advent of World War II and the political support of President Franklin Roosevelt that saved the day.  Luckily  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 17 --- 11 for the Air Corps, the men who had developed the concepts behind strategic bombing while assigned to ACTS in the early 1930s now stood ready to realize their ideas in this new political environment.  This combination of world events, new technology, political support, and a well prepared staff of experts helped turn strategic bombing theory into a strategic bombing plan in just nine short days in July 1941. Thus, the dissertation traces the history of a technology and an idea.  When the United States Army bought its first airplane it had little inkling of how this new technology would one day challenge the traditional understanding of warfare.  As the machinery evolved in both America and across the Atlantic, airplanes spurred the imagination of m