, 1920-1940 describes the mechanism for the ascension of strategic bombing through the lectures, theoretical debates, and officer interactions at the Air Corps’ doctrinal training ground.     In this way, the authors present a complex and at times contradictory narrative of air power doctrine development.  American airmen, fascinated by strategic bombardment, brought the idea back from Europe after World War I.   The new concept grew inside the nurturing environment of the Air Corps Tactical School where aviators married strategic bombing theory with the new capabilities of modern aircraft.  In the lead-up to World  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 12 --- 6 War II, political support and military necessity ensured strategic bombing became the grand aerial strategy used to degrade German war industries. As might be expected, this officially accepted narrative has flaws.  A new group of military aviation historians delved into these problem areas in a series of books during the 1990s and 2000s.  This reawakening of strategic bombing historiography looks past the traditional explanations and seeks new causations to explain how an unproven aerial theory weathered a myriad of challenges in the interwar years to become the strategy and planning behind the massive American bomber fleets in World War II.  The most important of the new books was Tami Davis-Biddle’s Rhetoric and Reality in Air Warfare: The Evolution of British and American Ideas about Strategic Bombing, 1914-1945.  Biddle pursues a more nuanced understanding of bombing by exploring the wildly inaccurate predictions concerning the effectiveness of air power in the interwar period.  She compares the theoretical progressions in Britain and America as a means of understanding how military institutions create and implement new ideas.  In doing so, she sheds light on the role of organizations in the development of strategic bombing theory. Similarly, Mark Clodfelter’s Beneficial Bombing: The Progressive Foundat