As luck would have it, these men were transitioning from ACTS into critical Air Corps staff positions.  Therefore, when the order came to develop a war plan, men with years of experience developing strategic bombing theory were now in the right spot at the right time to implement their ideas.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 273 --- 267     Chapter 10  Conclusion    Strategic bombing theory continued to develop in the wake of AWPD-1, going through several modifications during the early American and British World War II bombing campaigns.  Eventually, it codified into a stable doctrine that saw the advent of tremendous bomber fleets, akin to the early visions of H. G. Wells.  Strategic bombing’s evolution did not end with its rise to prominence in World War II.  The dawn of the atomic age required modifications to bring the theory in line with new domestic and international political realities, but the four major factors influencing strategic bombing’s evolution remained integral to the military doctrine and planning processes.  Individual efforts, technological developments, organizational factors, and political and economic context still contour America’s military and aviation policies.  As such, understanding how these forces shaped and modified American air power history gives us keen insight into forces still at work in our present military systems.    It is clear that none of these factors alone can explain the rise of strategic bombing.  Each factor has problems that limit its ability to claim primary causation.  The idea that great men posited strategic bombing and then ushered it to prominence is perhaps the easiest explanation to thwart.  While famous-and not so famous-aerial leaders draw the attention of historians and the public, they simply proved incapable of single-handedly creating strategic bombing.  This is not to say that individuals are not critical.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 274 --- 268 A quick review of the three most importan