bing.  While the law’s architects designed it to limit Air Corps’ freedom, it had a reverse effect in its application.  Instead of restraining independent thinking, the law spurred not only new doctrinal development, but also started a process to merge that doctrine with technological advances.     Yet, there were many factors that still conspired to limit the appeal of strategic bombing within the Army Air Corps and the larger defense establishment.  The long-standing fight between Army leadership and the Air Corps was in no way resolved:  Senior Army generals still saw aviation as a support element for the infantry and limited budgets and resource constraints remained, especially in the severe military cutbacks after the start of the Great Depression.  Finally, despite having achieved a level of autonomy, military aviation still faced personnel, organizational, and technological problems that diverted its leadership’s attention from strategy issues.  Of these overarching problems, three specific factors played the most important roles in shaping the evolution of strategic bombing theory during the critical transition period from 1926 to 1934.  The first was money.  Both the lack of appropriations and the War Department’s propensity to siphon funds for other requirements limited the ability of the Air Corps to research new technology and test doctrine in large-scale exercises.  Second, strategic bombing theorists had to work against a national defense policy based  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 217 --- 211 on a strategic defense concept.  With this attitude, it became increasingly difficult to justify research on costly offensive heavy bombers or on testing bombing theories and doctrine in expensive large-scale maneuvers.  Last, rapid changes in aviation technology impaired the ability of the Air Corps to develop new bomber designs.  The state of flux meant it simply was a question of should America invest in aircraft that would be obsolete before they beca