parated from the larger budgetary, strategy, and organizational debates within the national defense structure.  Their isolation in Montgomery, Alabama, allowed them to work on air power theories without interference, but it also meant they had little ability to shape the larger thinking of the Air Corps, the  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 276 --- 270 Army, and especially politicians.  Other factors had to occur to allow the Bomber Mafia’s rise to dominance and their ability to shape military doctrine. Explanations of technology as the primary causal factor face parallel difficulties.  It is true that aviation technology from the Wright brothers to the start of World War II shaped military aviation, but this did not predetermine the success of strategic bombing.  For instance, the B-17 represents a historical anomaly.  When it first flew in July 1935, the bomber seemed to herald the ascendancy of strategic bombing, as the Air Corps finally had the range and payload capacity to meet its doctrinal vision.  Yet, the opposite occurred.  In the late 1930s, the combination of organizational rivalries and a lack of political support almost doomed the heavy bomber to the budgetary scrap heap.  Still, without the technology encompassed in the B-17 there could never have been a strategic bombing campaign.  Its combination of range, accuracy, payload, and defensive firepower provided the necessities to carry out the strategy.  In this way, the technology was neither deterministic nor irrelevant.  Instead, it was another important aspect in shaping strategic bombing theory. Organizational dynamics also needs careful and critical examination.  Both internal dynamics and interservice rivalries shaped aviation budgets, technology, and strategy, but this influence cannot solely explain strategic bombing’s evolution.  Two examples highlight the problems with organizational culture as the principal causal factor.  First, despite the public attention to Mitchell’s fight with th