enior ground commanders a difficult process at best.  All these issues combined to create confusion, inefficiencies, and misdirection that affected the size, structure, and missions of the rapidly expanding air service..  Adding to the perplexity was a complex situation requiring the integration of multiple high priorities.  Establishing the new American Expeditionary Force (AEF) Air Service in Europe required the production of thousands of combat aircraft, the training of massive numbers of new pilots, and, most important, the development of strategy and tactics.  It is not unexpected, then, that in this situation confusion, redundancy, and uncertainty seemed to rule the day.  Still, the actions taken after the Mexican Punitive Expedition alleviated the worst of the effects.  Bright, energetic, and highly motivated  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 85 --- 79 young aviators worked tirelessly to achieve success in the critical deployment and training phases of 1917.   A quotation from the Commander of the AEF, Gen. John Pershing, best reflects the AEF Air Service staff during those critical months.  When hiring Maj. Gen. Mason Patrick to be the new AEF Air Service Commander in May 1918, Pershing indicated to Patrick that the Air Service’s senior staff were “good men running around in circles.”114  This quotation highlights both the frustration and empathy that Army leaders felt toward the Air Service.  These were good men who knew how to fly, but lacked the experience required to turn their ideas about air power into viable military plans. Perhaps no other element of the AEF Air Service felt the sting of this situation as much as the proponents of long-range bombing.  As an only lightly studied offshoot of aerial strategy in the pre-1917 American Air Service, bombing faced an uphill battle to gain traction in the strategy and planning worlds.  Nevertheless, it had many supporters both within the American Army and among its new European allies.  Unfortunately, th