face in the minds of many air power leaders.  When projections for 1919 finally showed a significant increase in the numbers of bomber aircraft available, many AEF Air Service planners began to reconsider Gorrell’s ideas.  Yet, much water had passed under the bridge.  In the intervening months competing plans for air power started to gain favor with senior American military leaders.  These competing visions not only threatened Gorrell’s ideas, but also shaped a new vision for strategic bombing in late 1918.  Competing Plans for Air Power  By February 1918, Gorrell had settled into his new job in the G3 operations division of the AEF staff.  While he continued to work on strategic bombing, the realities of war soon intervened.  In early 1918, the Germans realized they had to use their temporary numerical superiority for one last offensive in the west before the American military might made its presence felt on the battlefield.  Therefore, on 21 March 1918 they launched the Ludendorff Offensive designed to break through the trench lines and isolate the British BEF.  While the still-training AEF initially refrained from the battle, by June the Americans entered combat at Château-Thierry and Belleau Wood.  When the  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 130 --- 124 German assaults culminated in July, the Americans took a predominant role in the counteroffensive to push the Germans back and eventually win the war.   This new combat role for the AEF consumed the priorities, resources, and focus of its leadership.  As the campaign continued through the summer and fall, the American Army became more and more involved in ground combat.  In this environment, aviation resources, already scarce, became almost totally allocated to ground support.  Historian John Morrow best sums up this change of events when he describes the U.S optimism of 1917 yielding to the realities of 1918.196  The German offensive occurred at an important time for the American Air Service.  In March 1918,