implement new ideas.  In doing so, she sheds light on the role of organizations in the development of strategic bombing theory. Similarly, Mark Clodfelter’s Beneficial Bombing: The Progressive Foundations of American Air Power, 1917-1945 also searches for new causal factors to explain the rise of strategic bombing.  Instead of a linear history or the work of great aerial leaders, Clodfelter explores how the social and economic context of progressivism directed the way strategic bombing advocates and political leaders thought and thus also how they shaped their theories.  While Clodfelter’s work may leave room for argument, his  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 13 --- 7 introduction of social context as a causal factor is an important step in understanding strategic bombing’s history. Stephen McFarland’s America’s Pursuit of Precision Bombing 1904-1945 adds to this trend by exploring the technological basis.  He contends that far from being the result of a linear process, interwar doctrine was a back-and-forth effort to find an acceptable air power doctrine based on the ideal of precision.  While this was most often associated with strategic bombing, McFarland argues that it just as easily could have been precise operational air power as the primary tool.  In doing so, he suggests that doctrine development took a back seat to technological change with military engineers working feverishly to develop a bombsight that could account for speed, altitude, wind, and bomb aerodynamics as the real story behind the success of strategic bombing theory.  Consequently, McFarland brings in technology as a causal factor in the maturation of strategic bombing theory. Finally, John Buckley’s Air Power in the Age of Total War introduces the role of politics.  He argues that geography and political policies in large part determined aerial strategy in the interwar years.  In the United States and Britain a desire to bring the fight directly to the enemy without the need for ground