he armistice on 11 November 1918 ended the war before any concrete actions were taken.  Gorrell’s Strategic Bombing Plans  After Gorrell’s promotion to Commander of Strategical Aviation in the Zone of Advance, he immediately began work to turn his bombing recommendation into a functioning plan.  The timing must have encouraged Gorrell, as it coincided with a major British move towards strategic bombing and the American leadership’s seeming openness to new doctrines.  Yet Gorrell was to learn through trial and error that not all senior leaders were open to potentially radical new air power theories.  Many of them remained steadfast in their opinion that the only role for aircraft was in direct support of ground forces.  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 120 --- 114  Still, in December 1917, Gorrell appeared to be perfectly situated to turn American strategic bombing into a reality.  Upon assuming his new command, he quickly surrounded himself with highly capable deputies, beginning with Maj. Harold S. Fowler as his executive officer.  An American, Fowler had joined the British Army in 1914 as an artillery officer before shifting to the RFC as first an observer and in 1916 as a pilot.  When the United States entered the war, he transferred back to the fledgling air service and helped develop America’s pilot training program.176  Gorrell used his talent to speed the building of bomber bases and the training of bomber crews.  Next, Gorrell hired Maj. Millard F. Harmon as his pursuit support planner.  Even at this early stage, most aviators understood that bombers required protection to reach their targets without excessive losses.  Harmon’s background in pursuit aviation made him a good candidate to plan escort missions.  Finally, Gorrell looked to a British officer on loan to the AEF Air Service for his strategic bombing planner.  After suffering injuries that limited his ability to fly, the British assigned Wing Commander Spencer Grey to assist the American airmen