reed of Air Service officer, the politically connected advocate, rose to make use of these powerful connections to fight for continued aviation growth, new missions, and independence.  The key to accomplishing these goals was to remodel the Air Service based on a new defensive national security strategy.  Long-range bombers would no longer strike at the industrial heart of an enemy.  Instead, tactical and operational offensive power designed to find, attack, and destroy the most likely short-term threat to America, a naval incursion, made more sense from a political, budgetary, and service viability stand point.   Thus, strategic bombing was put on a back shelf as long-range bombing advocates explored a new role in coastal defense that promised prestige, budget growth, and potentially independence.  Yet, much like Gorrell himself, strategic bombing theorists would not remain idle.  For his part, Gorrell maintained an influential correspondence with key military aviation figures.  In the same way, strategic bombing always simmered under the surface out of sight during the more flashy aviation debates occurring in Washington.  In hidden puddles of strategy development in Washington and Virginia important individuals slowly and subtly reshaped the concepts developed during World War I.  Shaping Forces     At the start of the 1920s, a combination of external and internal forces limited the appeal of strategic bombardment as a primary doctrine within the newly formed Army  File: --- morris_origins.pdf --- Page 184 --- 178 Air Service.  Externally, forces of political change remodeled the Air Service away from its World War I size, budgets, and thinking.  Internally, structural changes challenged the dual concepts of independence and strategic bombing.  The combination of the reassertion of Army control, technological stagnation, and personnel problems refocused thinking towards the problems of a peacetime military. The external changes were critical in shaping the overal