ptember 1943.165 Distribution of goods had broken down in southern Italy. Professor Zuckerman, as advisor to Air Marshal Tedder, who was in charge of the U.S. Northwest African Air Forces and the RAF Mediterranean Air Command, after careful study had recommended that an all-out attack on the Italian railway system would facilitate the Allied landings in Italy. Whereas in the north, Harris blasted the industrial cities, in the south Tedder immobilized the transport system. In early September 1943, after the Allies had successfully landed, Mussolini was deposed by his own party and the king. Marshal Badoglio, his successor, sued for peace and Italy was out of the war. Depending on who one believes, it was either the breakdown of morale due to the bombing in the north or the collapse of infrastructure in the south that caused Italy's quest for peace. Harris could breath easier because one theater of war for Bomber Command had ceased to exist. But Zuckerman had proven what an attack on transport could do to assist an amphibious landing.  226 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II The Eighth U.S. Army Air Force had continued in the meantime to fly its missions over the occupied countries. After the first raid, which targeted the railway installations of Rouen. the B-17s and B-24s were sent over an increasing number of targets in Western Europe. The U.S. bomber doctrine called for destroying strategic targets. Since the aircraft had to fly high, they saturated them with high-explosive bombs. The planes always flew in tight formations, identified their aims, and unloaded what we called the bomb carpet. Accuracy was remarkable. The USAAF could drop 70 percent of their bombs within one hundred feet of the aiming point.166 Morale was not on the U.S. target roster-at least not yet. The losses to the bombers were small on these missions. Luftflotte 3, still com- manded by Field Marshal Sperrle and stationed in France, had only 328 fighters. Most Luftwaffe dayfighters (764) w