as Salmond, Game, Portal, and Harris. The United States, although politically it would never con- sider itself a colonial or imperial power, also let its eagles fly. From 1919 to 1923 U.S. aircraft chased insurgents and bandits (or national heroes?) in Santo Domingo and similarly chased bandits in Haiti from 1923 to 1938.21 These were minor actions that received very little publicity. On the other hand, the British colonial air actions have been well publicized; not only the actions themselves, but also their political, economic, and military background. Bombing developed into such a fine art that many RAF air marshals from Trenchard to Harris were proud of it until the end of their lives. After World War I the Royal Navy and the British army took up an extended political campaign to have the RAF abol- ished as an independent armed service. Churchill as air minis- ter and Trenchard as chief of air staff fought the First Sealord Admiral Beatty for years. The fight with the army was not as  136 To DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS acrimonious because Churchill was also minister of war, i.e. minister of the army. Lloyd George, the prime minister, was determined to cut defense spending to a minimum after the horrendous debts incurred during the war. He decided and proclaimed publicly that Britain would not be involved in another major war for ten years and therefore needed only minimal armed forces. The "ten year rule," as it was called. appears incongruous in the light of the Châteaux Treaties. The Cabinet was pressing the RAF, questioned its needs and the proposed budget of £66 million in peacetime 1919. The long-established army and navy services wanted the Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Air Service respectively back under their commands to use them for tactical air opera- tions. They did not want the independent RAF to perform reconnaissance and frontline support and perhaps be told that it could not be done. The lobbying was intense with Churchill vacil