erman army pushed through Poland and within weeks was in front of Warsaw. There followed the first aerial bombardment of a city in World War II. Historians have proven that Warsaw was a fortified city with more than 100,000 Polish troops inside to defend it, and that the Germans sent numerous requests to the Polish commanders for a peaceful and honorable surrender. There was no reply. Next followed leaflets dropped by the Luftwaffe with the same offers, and after that, leaflets advising the citizens to leave the city. Again, no reply. The efforts to obtain a peaceful surrender lasted from 16 to 24 September. On 25 September about 200 Luftwaffe Stukas, 30 old Ju-52 bombers, and a number of ground attack aircraft bombarded Warsaw. They unloaded 500 tons of high explosives and 72 tons of incendiaries. Some of these bombs fell on German army positions.4 At the express orders of Göring the crews had to aim at military and infrastructure tar- gets only. Of course, such orders had been routine ever since World War I. Yet the deportment of the German bombers in 167 Poland is vindicated by a report of the French air attaché, who informed his government that the Luftwaffe had bombed in conformity with the rules of warfare. The report was dated 14 September and therefore does not cover the raid on Warsaw of 25 September. Warsaw was certainly in the war zone and its bombardment could be justified, particularly after the many appeals to surrender. Polish sources had proudly stated that it was a fortress and would be defended until final victory. The unfortunate political aspect of the bombardment is that it was executed by airplanes. Had the Germans used their artillery to destroy the intended targets, the Hague Conventions would have applied and, legally at least, sanctioned the raid. But bombers used as long-range artillery caused the devastation, at the very beginning of another great European war, and that aroused world opinion and damned the Luftwaffe into infamy. Exact cas