- ing civilians. Under his command, hundreds of sorties were flown against Balkan cities. Eaker's professional standards had by that time dropped to statements as to "instill a keen civil desire to get out of the war."37 In 1945 he was posted back to Britain to run the bomber divisions of the Eighth Air Force. He was strongly against attacking targets in the occupied coun- tries when there was a chance of killing civilians. He showed less compassion for the Germans. Eaker retired from active service on 31 August 1947 and died on 6 August 1987. The first U.S. bomber practitioner was General James H. Doolittle. The "Doolittle Raid" took place on 18 April 1942, when twenty-five U.S. medium bombers dropped their bombs on Japan, some of them into thickly populated areas.38 Doolittle was in command and this stamped him an area bomber in the eyes of the Japanese. Doolittle was born at Alameda, California, on 14 December 1896. In 1918 he joined the U.S. Army Signal Corps but saw no action at the Western Front in World War I. He obtained an engineering degree from Berkeley, California, and a doctorate in aeronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 85 Between the wars he was engaged in research and develop- ment with such prominent aircraft manufacturers as Curtiss. In 1940 he was back in the service, and based on his engineering background helped auto manufacturers convert to aircraft pro- duction. During World War II he commanded all the major U.S. air fleets in Europe at one time or another. As such he could not escape following orders from above. In the sources reviewed for this book I could not find a statement by General Doolittle that indicated a conviction that the attack on morale was justi- fied and would win the war. Like Spaatz, he acted as com- manded, but he kept his own councils. Only after Spaatz over- ruled his objections were nine hundred U.S. bombers sent to Berlin as part of Operation Thunderclap on 3 February 1945. The toll: 25,000 dead Be