ones aimed at the railway station hit their intended target with bulls-eye precision, and we believed even more in the Voice of America; at least until  TO DESTROY A CITY 36 THE RAIDS BEGIN further notice. But some bombs came down outside the station and hit private homes. One destroyed the transformer station that supplied the area we lived in with electricity. From then to the bitter end we had to live without electric power. The death toll was considerable with over 170 people killed. The exact number varies between 171 and 178, depending on the source of information. The damage to our flat was small. The bomb hitting the transformer station exploded about three hundred meters away from our building. We had boarded up the win- dows destroyed in the previous raid with cardboard and had swept up all the broken glass. Now the cardboard was all blown to bits, more windows were smashed, and some plaster had ended up on the floor. The attack had ripped up many tracks and the main station building was a pile of rubble. The post office next to it and the workshops around the station were all badly hit. Rail traffic through W端rzburg was interrupted for two days. The Germans had learned how to deal with this type of damage. Hundreds of men and their heavy equipment had the wheels rolling again in short order. The damage to the marshalling yard at Zell was minimal. The returning bombers reported that they had hit the southern choke point of the yard. The photos taken by the same bombers show that they missed the yard narrowly.8 W端rzburg's railway installations were actually not on the target lists of the USAAF and the USTAAF. In September 1944 two hundred German railway centers had been selected for destruction and when the list was reduced to eighty targets in January 1945 W端rzburg still was not on it.9 The thirty-seven aircraft in this raid belonged to Bomber Groups 305 A, B and C and were to attack Bayreuth, but bad visibility prevented that attack and W端rzburg, given as