way to knock out the enemy. In short, one can blame them all as a group, but not individually. They can all hide behind each other's back. The subject of area attacks in World War II is so loaded with controversy that historians, academic and military alike, to this day are divided as to the ethics, necessity, success, and efficiency of it. Charles Messenger in his history of the bomber campaign mentions that such distinguished British his- torians as A. J. P. Taylor, Geoffrey Best, Michel Glover, and even Robert Saundby, Harris's second-in-command during the entire campaign, have condemned it or at least expressed doubts about the moral aspects of the bombing.3 The success of the bomber offensive can be assessed when one studies the British Bombing Survey. The survey, which has never been officially published, unequivocally states that the bombing was a failure.4 One must give Harris credit for not scheduling a second raid on Würzburg shortly after the first one as he had done on many occasions to increase the terror. The RAF raid of 16-17 March spelled the end of Würzburg as a medieval historically grown city. The part the USAAF played in the demise of the city was small and actually acci- dental. The daylight attacks flown by the Eighth USAAF and the Ninth USTAAF were against legitimate infrastructure tar- 333 gets such as the marshalling yard, the gas works, the railway station, and military barracks. These targets were secondary choices, as primary assigned targets in other cities could not be bombed. If the bomber offensives in Europe and the Far East were to have a political impact they failed. They did not change the governments of Britain, Germany, or Japan in two world wars. They did not impress the USSR leaders in WWII and many politicians have questioned the ethics of them ever since. From the economic point of view they did have an impact. The cost of the bombing in Europe and the Far East in World War II shows staggering statistics. The United States p