the "Kiliansdom," the Kilian Cathedral, named in honor of the principal Irish monk. The "Dom," as it is called, dates back to the eleventh century. It was built in Romanesque style with later additions of gothic and rococo cloisters and chapels. Other churches of all building epochs are connected to reli- gious orders, hospitals, or just to the congregations around them. As the city grew, modern churches of considerable aes- thetic value were built outside the inner core. There were also three Lutheran churches and a synagogue. There were hospitals with thousands of beds. The biggest in the inner city being the "Julius Spital," founded in the seven- teenth century. During World War II it was upgraded and modernized to attend to thousands of Wehrmacht casualties. In the outskirts there were and have been the Luitpold Krankenhaus, a large complex of university clinics and the Wehrmacht Hospital. Besides these major hospitals there were numerous smaller ones and many convalescent homes for wounded soldiers. There were so many hospitals in Würzburg at the time that people believed it had been officially declared a hospital city and would be immune to air raids. I remember very well that all these buildings had huge red crosses on white backgrounds painted on their roofs, as stipulated in the Geneva conventions. Copies in my possession of the RAF aer- ial reconnaissance photographs, taken before Armageddon, are too grainy to show these red crosses, but they were there. 23 As Würzburg has always been the administrative center for the area, the Regierungsbezirk, it also harbored many insti- tutions for the blind, the deaf, and the crippled. There has been a university since 1582 with institutes for all fields of medicine, for law, the arts, chemistry, and physics. In the latter, Roentgen had discovered X-rays in 1896. Further institutions for learning included a teachers' academy and academies for music and agriculture. The list of significant non-military objects within t