ssing grades, and Nernst went as far as to enter into Lindemann's file that there were gaps in his knowledge of physics.14 After a lecture tour at the University of Chicago, Lindemann was back in Britain at the outbreak of World War I. In March 1915 he reported for duty at the Royal Aircraft Factory at Farnborough. He learned to fly and his interest in air warfare was kindled. After the war he became a professor of physics at the University of Oxford. Socially, Lindemann continued to mix with the prominent and well-to-do, and in 1921 he and Churchill met to become lifelong friends. They dabbled in internal (mostly defense) and external politics. In 1933 Lindemann tried to see Hitler, and later Mussolini. As there was a lack of interest in the British government in air defense and air warfare, Lindemann, with Churchill's help, successfully ran for election as a member of Parliament. From this base he influenced the work of committees and the Air Ministry shortly before World War II. He agreed with the the- ory that the only defense against bombing attacks was to destroy the enemy's air bases before his bombers could invade Britain. Lindemann developed a phobia against all things German in his later life and his biographer states that he had an inflex- ible desire to pulverize Germany in World War II.15 He let the notion go around that he was not really of German ancestry but that his father was from Alsace-Lorraine. Churchill passed Lord Cherwell's minute of 30 March 1942 for comments to the minister for air and the chief of air staff. who in turn passed it on to his advisors. There were arguments between Cherwell and Tizard, a fellow scientific advisor, about the arithmetic, but nobody objected to the basic idea of area bombing. The result of the Cherwell minute was a chief of staff committee minute to the War Cabinet, C.O.S. (42) 379 (O), of 3 November 1942, which became the blueprint for the strategic bombing war against Germany.16 In 1942 Lord Cherwell became a m