against indigenous people with  326 To DESTROY A CITY STRATEGIC BOMBING AND INTERNATIONAL LAW armies much inferior in numbers to what the insurgents could muster. Fighting the enemy's people by whatever means com- pensated for the difference in strength. Conversely one can interpret the Luftwaffe Service Order No.16 of March 1940 as an army against army school of thought, because it says in the introduction, paragraph 2, that the aerial attack is to be carried into enemy territory to target the enemy forces and reduce the will to resist of the enemy forces at its root.3 Bringing civilians into the war by stressing the home front was a self-defeating measure. It gave the enemy reason to attack this front. That these attacks were meant to be against military type targets was understood and could be condoned by the statutes of international law. That the attacks later included indiscriminate bombing of residential areas is the point where jurists still have different opinions. There are opinions such as J. M. Spaight's, who was princi- pal assistant secretary of the air ministry at the time, stating in 1944 that the bomber is the savior of civilization.4 The timing and the historical facts must be considered in judging this extraordinary statement. The author refers to the tremendous losses of the British army in the battles of World War I and the deaths of Germans by starvation through the blockade.5 What he did not know in 1944 was that the number of deaths by star- vation in World War I was about the same as the number of deaths by bombing in World War II. Bombing indeed appeared a much less costly form of warfare for Britain, provided that Douhet and Trenchard could be proven correct in the end. Area bombing as practiced indiscriminately from 1942 onward was not subject to Article 25 of the Rules of Land Warfare; such was the opinion of the air ministry. An opinion on that is proffered by Eberhard Spetzler, who during the war was a legal staff officer of the Luftwa