S TARGET in the inner city which supplied outmoded DC current at 110 Volt. Because the city was a rail center there were and are rail- way installations: A central station for passenger traffic north of the city center; a marshalling yard for freight traffic in the suburb of Zell, northwest just beyond the transformer station; and roundhouses complete with locomotive repair shops adja- cent to the passenger station. Long before World War I an inland harbor had been built, complete with warehouses, cranes, road and rail sidings. It is still in use today. By the mid-1930s it had proven too small and too old. A new harbor, again basically only a quay side like the old one, was built close to the railyard at Zell before World War II. For industry Würzburg had always been a difficult place to settle. Geographically there is little space in the valley that would allow easy access by rail and road. Any industry that required water for either process or steampower generation had to face the problem of one of the hardest waters in Europe. Yet there were and still are today in and around Würzburg midsize industrial plants. At the end of World War II none of them employed more than five hundred workers. There was the steel fabricator Noell AG, which built railway signal equip- ment and steel structures. It was located northeast of the city center. From about 1943 onward this shop built sections of U- boat hulls, about one every two months, which were trans- ported on low bed trailers to the Main River for loading onto barges and shipment to assembly wharves in northern Germany. Another factory has been located for well over 150 years near the marshalling yard at Zell. Koenig und Bauer AG is a well-known and respected producer of high-speed printing presses and its products have been sold in the world markets for generations. The machine tool capacity of the factory had been used after every raid on the ball-bearing factories at Schweinfurt, about forty kilometers from Würzburg