onument in front of it, would have been, so many years after the campaign, a fitting honor for all con- cerned. The statue is exposed, as any outside monument, to graffiti not only from humans but also from birds. Portal and Harris were the chief exponents on the British side of the bombing war from 1939 to 1945. There were others. such as Air Marshal Saundby, Harris's second in command, the commanders of the bomber groups, and the senior staff at the Air Ministry, such as Bufton and Bottomley. They all played a role in the bombing, but they were even more exposed to be mere implementors of orders from above. Now we turn to United States bomber practitioners. After Pearl Harbor and after Hitler and Mussolini had declared war on the United States, Generals Spaatz, Doolittle, Eaker, and Anderson moved to Europe and took charge of the U.S. bomber fleets. The man above these bomber practitioners was General Henry H. Arnold, commander of the U.S. Army Air Forces. He in turn reported to the army chief of staff, General George C. 81 Marshall. United States government and public opinion was that civilian life was sacred and should not be exposed to delib- erate bombing. Precision attacks in daylight were the accepted form of U.S. aerial warfare. Anticipating that enemy fighters would cause losses, the answer was to fly in tight formations and have the bombers equipped with strong defenses. Hence the name of Flying Fortress for the B-17 and Superfortress for the B-29. Arnold gradually changed the policy and by 1943 he was not "going to pull his punches because some civilian might get killed."27 After the most destructive-ever area raid (Tokyo, March 1945) had been flown, he sent the responsible com- mander a congratulatory wire. In the end, Arnold regarded ter- ror bombing and the obliteration of urban centers as necessities of war.28 The most prominent commander and bomber practitioner of the USAAF was General Carl Spaatz. He was born on 29 June 1891 at Boyertown, Pennsylva