World War II. In 1948 a Red Cross Convention gave protection to civilians. However, the arms race that start- ed at that time, with intercontinental ballistic missiles still in place today, makes a mockery of that convention. The Japanese are the only power that ever indicted active participants in bombing. The well-publicized trials of the cap- tured flyers of the Doolittle raid in 1942 caused worldwide indignation, even in Japan's ally Germany. Before the trials Japan had passed legislation that made bombing civilians a crime. This was a unilateral move and legally speaking had no base for the indictment. Why Japan did not interpret Article 25 as applicable and based its prosecution on that is not explained. Whether bomber crews expected to be protected by the Hague and Geneva Conventions when in distress is a moot point. Since there were no conventions regulating the bombing  328 TO DESTROY A CITY STRATEGIC BOMBING AND INTERNATIONAL LAW of civilians, how could the bombers expect to be protected by conventions that did not regulate their duties? There were no conventions about the treatment of stranded airmen.8 This does not mean that the lynchings of Allied air crews can be condoned. Lynchings are illegal from any juridical point of view. The Allies conducted numerous trials after the war in Germany. The United States tried fifty-seven, Britain and Canada twenty-seven, and the USSR eight murders of Allied flyers.º However, the fairness of these trials is questioned when one considers that in the U.S. Zone of Occupation the defen- dant was at the mercy of U.S. military judges, prosecutors, and defence attorneys. Hearsay evidence was admissible, judge- ments of death sentences did not have to be unanimous, and there was no provision for appeal.10 J. M. Spaight considered strategic area bombing unassail- able. Of all the crimes dealt with by the International War Crimes Tribunal at Nürnberg, that subject was studiously avoided. Neither the Luftwaffe as an organizati