iding funds and forcing individuals to create a system. It appeared to be all ad hoc, after a raid, when the need was obvious. Tokyo had no shelters.33 There were no fire breaks and escape routes from the densely occupied quarters. The subway system offered no protection because it was not located deep enough. Most cities outside Tokyo were not considered to be in danger zones. Only after the first B-29 raids on Tokyo in October 1944 were fire breaks and escape routes established by razing whole lines of houses. By early 1945 about 10 percent of the residen- tial homes of Tokyo had been torn down.34 The federal government and the city of Tokyo, in poorly defined lines of responsibility, organised civil defense groups with pumps, personal fire-resistant clothing, and a lot of infor- mation to combat fire storms. All efforts on civil defense were looked upon by the all- powerful military with a critical eye-Japan would not need such measures as they were considered defeatist. It is not sur- prising that the fire raid of 9-10 March 1945 was so devastating. The people were neither physically nor mentally equipped to endure such an onslaught. The only really successful m stul measure of Japanese civil defense was the evacuation of anybody who was not absolutely neces- sary in the cities. In 1944 there were 7 million inhabitants in Tokyo. By August 1945, when the war ended, there were only 2.5 million. 35 In summing up government organised civil defense meas-  286 TO DESTROY A CITY ures, one comes to the conclusion that the German government had done the most for its citizens. Of course, as the bombing developed the need was the greatest there. As part of civil defense, one must also mention the precau- tions individuals took which could be termed personal defense. We spread our more precious personal belongings. clothing, and food to places in the country and to what we thought were bombproof shelters in the city. Not all of them turned out to be. As an example three box