ciple that completely corresponded with his own view. Britain and France issued a joint declaration confirm- ing that they were in full agreement with Roosevelt's appeal. Chamberlain, the British prime minister, had made a statement in the House of Commons on 21 June 1938 that Britain, in the event of a war, would adhere to the recommendations made by the Commission of Jurists in The Hague in 1923.2 Of the three statesmen mentioned above, only Chamber- lain kept his word, albeit by default. After he resigned in May 1940, his successor, Winston Churchill, let the bombers 165  166 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II loose and was later joined by the two others in killing hun- dreds of thousands of innocent people. None of them is known to have shown the slightest remorse for abandoning a civilized approach to warfare. In September 1939, on the surface the appeal boded well for the masses who had been indoctrinated that enemy bombers would appear over them as soon as war broke out The only country that can proudly say it did not participate in this warfare is France. At the Geneva Disarmament Confer- ence, France had stated that banning bombardment was not necessary because it was forbidden by the existing conventions of The Hague and Geneva. The French point of view is best supported by a speech French General Maxime Weygand gave at Chatham House, England, on 16 May 1939. In it he said that bombarding defenseless people smacks of cowardice and is repugnant to the soldier. He further said that people ordering such actions cannot be very brave.3 After 1 September, Britain and France sent Germany an ultimatum to pull back from Poland or be in a state of war with them in forty-eight hours. Hitler hoped that the Western nations could be bluffed again. He was wrong. The German army pushed through Poland and within weeks was in front of Warsaw. There followed the first aerial bombardment of a city in World War II. Historians have proven that Warsaw was a fortified city