utch understanding for the bomb- ing of their citizens and their homes must have talked to the wrong people. Now the Americans, as had already happened in the Balkans, were falling into this same category. The public, both in Britain and the United States, was told by the "free" press that only military installations were being targeted. American public opinion and ethics could not have it any other way. But the bombers being frustrated in their promise to win German surrender singlehandedly could see that their meth- ods did not work. Why the Americans who had seen the British approach not yield any results after years of tremen- dous efforts and losses had to join in morale bombing is diffi- cult to fathom. Considering that the American military has always been under the tight scrutiny of the American public, they had the additional task of deceiving their own citizens. There was a great exchange of letters, opinions, and pro- posals on how to win the war from the air. These discussions involved military leaders from the president down to Doolittle and Eaker, the commanders of the Eighth and Fifteenth USAAF respectively. In the final analysis it transpired that Roosevelt accepted terrorizing enemy civilians,208 that Arnold would not want to conduct the air war without it, and that Spaatz accepted it, but hid behind Eisenhower who approved anything that would finish the war quickly.209 They all agreed that it was not a good American attitude. It had to be hidden from the public, but hopefully the end would justify the means. Allied intelligence networks must have had their agents in the attacked cities. Was it not reported to the planners of the bombing operations that there was never an incident of rebel- lion after a heavy raid? The people took the pounding docilely with few outbreaks of emotion. My own emotions and experi- ences at Würzburg were certainly along these lines. If one believes Goebbels's propaganda, there was even hostile reac- tion towards people w