s and millions of DM of the Bavarian State government. Today, the building, the rooms, 295  296 TO DESTROY A CITY LOSS OF CULTURAL ASSETS halls, and the staircase appear so beautiful that the American historian Stephen A. Garrett, when he visited the palace. asked the guide how everything could be so immaculately preserved over the centuries. He could hardly believe the almost complete destruction and the success of the painstak- ing rebuilding.2 Another architectural treasure which survived the intense fire in the inner city is the Schönborn Chapel, a baroque struc- ture attached to the transept of the romanesque cathedral. The cathedral itself, as most churches, was gutted by fire but the outer walls survived, although, in most cases they were badly damaged. During reconstruction of the cathedral the north wall collapsed a year after the raid and necessitated the mod- ern look of the "Dom" in order to rebuild it at all. On the hill, southwest of the city, the pilgrimage church called "Käppele" designed by Balthasar Neumann, the same architect who had built the Residenz, received a few incendi- aries but the caretakers were able to extinguish them. The Käppele with all its baroque beauty still looks down on the city. Not so fortunate was the castle on the hill west of Würzburg. No high explosives had fallen in its precincts but incendiaries must have come down on it by the hundreds. The buildings and towers were gutted and again only the façades survived. Today it has been restored to its original beauty and no trace of the inferno of 16 March 1945 is visible. As the city was 89 percent destroyed, all the houses in the inner core, including the palaces of the lesser nobilities of prince bishopric times, were destroyed. Countless treasures became smoking ruins. Few could be rebuilt to their original appearance. But reconstruction of the entire city has been com- plete for some years and not a single ruin is visible today. To me, the city looks more beautiful today t