t the Army Air Force should prove its point by sinking some ex-German navy ships which had come into the possession of the United States as a result of the Treaty of Versailles. The tests were conclusive and con- vincing. But the U.S. government still neglected the develop- ment of the air service. Mitchell became frustrated and vented his critical views in public. In early 1925 he was demoted to colonel and eventual- ly court-martialed in Washington. He was found guilty of insubordination. Mitchell resigned from the army on 1 February 1926. He died on 19 February 1936 and is buried in Milwaukee. Mitchell's theories of air warfare concerned themselves only with tactical bombing in defense of the United States. His theories were proven correct. During the Spanish Civil War, Republican planes attacked the German pocket battleship Deutschland, which was on blockade duties for Franco's Nationalists. The Deutschland was damaged and had to leave for home. But the most convincing proof undoubtedly came at Pearl Harbor in December 1941. In our review of area bombing theories we must turn to the civilian theoreticians who had no World War I experiences to draw upon. Among the most prominent and influential of these civilians was Lord Cherwell. He was Churchill's scientif- 59 ic advisor during the entire Second World War. On 30 March 1942 he sent a minute to the prime minister suggesting that area bombing would break the morale of the German popula- tion. When one studies Cherwell's biography one is left with the impression that his was a very enigmatic personality with a brilliant mind. He was a capable scientist and administrator, a politician and a member of the establishment, but at the same time an aloof, self-centered man.11 Frederick Alexander Lindemann-called Lord Cherwell after he became a peer in 1941-was born at Baden-Baden, a southwest German spa, in 1886. His mother was taking the waters at the time. His father was German and his mother American. That she gave bi