u-52 bombers. The advance on Madrid stalled and the city did not fall to the Nationalists until early 1939. When Madrid could not be taken by late 1936, Franco shift- 145 ed his campaign to the north to gain control of the Basque region. Nationalist troops pushed northward with the tactical air support of the Condor Legion and the Aviazione Legionaria. These air units were under the direct control of Franco, who had his headquarters at Salamanca at the time. The chiefs of the Legions were assigned to these headquarters. Day to day operations rested with the chiefs of staff in the field, who, in the case of the Germans, was Colonel Wolfram von Richthofen. The instructions from headquarters were clear and unambiguous. Prepare for a rapid ground force advance with- out too much consideration for civilian losses. Smash the morale of the opposing troops.53 Some historians maintain that the Condor Legion was not only a proving ground for German armaments but also was to establish the impact of bombing on civilian morale. No proof for the latter statement has been found in the archives at Freiburg or Koblenz. Richthofen, in a diary covering his entire sojourn in Spain, also mentions noth- ing.54 There was no need to prove the merits of area bombing. The RAF had shown on a large scale in the League mandates how expedient bombing civilians can be on morale. The tactical air strikes in the north soon gained notoriety because they killed many civilians, and as a result were report- ed as terror raids by the Republicans and the international press. One of the major raids occurred on 31 March 1937 on the city of Durango. It left 258 people dead.55 The most infamous air raid occurred on 26 April 1937. Guernica, a small town of immense importance to Basque history, was the target of planes of the Con Condor Legion and the Aviazione Legionaria from 4 to 7 P.M. All aircraft were under the direct command of von Richthofen. He had cleared the raid with Salamanca and timed it to preven