ircling the rebellious areas to prevent anybody from escaping until the army or police could arrive and solve the problem.16 There was no bombing of villages as in other Empire trouble spots. In June 1939 Harris was promoted to air vice marshal. His tour of duty in Palestine was to extend until the end of that year, but he returned to England because of an ulcer. He arrived in August and shortly after war broke out he became commander of No. 5 Bomber Group. In February 1942 Harris was appointed chief of Bomber Command. By that time the air war had taken a number of turns down the road to brutality and destruction. Harris had instructions to bomb Germany in accordance with the Casablanca Directive, he had instructions from the Air Ministry and, in his discussions with Churchill at Chequers, he received full support from the very top. He convinced himself and others that the bomber could win the war and that an Allied landing to fight the German armed forces and occupy the country was not necessary. Thus began the Strategic Air Offensive against Germany. The main target, ever so unoffi- cially, became German morale. Harris showed his true colors in his book when he said, "the destruction of factories, which nevertheless was on an enormous scale, could be regarded as a bonus. The aiming points were usually right in the centre of the  78 To DESTROY A CITY THE BOMBER PRACTITIONERS town."17 After an attack on Cologne, he quoted in a letter to Churchill on 24 March 1942 German sources in neutral Turkey that said "we did a lot of damage and killed plenty of Boches."18 When one analyzes these statements and looks at them from Harris's point of view, one must admit that he was not just a brutal butcher, as he has been called by many people. If he wanted to kill Germans only, in sort of a body count, he could have attacked small, undefended cities only. The risk would have been smaller and the results even more spectacu- lar. That in the end defenseless cities such as Würzburg