ere raised and questions began to be asked. Churchill, the seasoned politician, saw the writing on the wall and sent a minute to Ismay, the chief of defense staff, on 28 March in which he questioned "the bombing of German cities for the sake of increasing the terror, although under other pre- texts."25% When the minute reached the Air Ministry and Bomber Command, another blockbuster exploded. Portal,  258 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II Harris, and all the bomber practitioners protested violently about being taken to task by the very man who for years had instructed them to attack morale or civilians under whatever pretext. The ever-diplomatic Portal persuaded Churchill to withdraw the minute and substitute it with a less abrasive one by 1 April. The bombers' sun was beginning to set and Churchill was back full circle to where he had started in 1940 when taking over from Chamberlain, who had decreed no bombing of civilians. The truth was, as reported by many historians, the USAAR and Bomber Command had run out of targets. The war in Europe had come to an end because the Allied armies had con- quered it all. It was the ground troops from the east and the west that sealed the fate of Germany. The bombers had per- sisted far beyond the point of necessity, long after any advan- tage could be gained, either tactical or strategic. They persisted simply for the sake of destruction for its own sake. They had wreaked havoc unheard of in human history. Some of them, like Harris, fell into disgrace, others, like LeMay, rose to the highest levels of the military profession. 1945: JAPAN Japan, like Germany and Italy, had faced the problems of industrialization, population surplus, and no markets for exports and imports. It had to expand beyond the home islands to live and prosper, but found that there was no room and tolerance for its forays. In reviewing literature and docu- ments for this study one finds only one author who recognizes the dilemma of Japan, but by omi