Carthage after the Third Punic War in 146 B.C. The treaty was rejected by the U.S. Senate. Wilson, who had come to the peace conference to enshrine the Fourteen Points, had given ground to his international partners. He now faced defeat on his home turf. The state of war between the United States and Germany continued until 1921, when on 25 August a separate treaty was signed in Washington. It did not include a number of the articles that were particularly objectionable to the U.S. legislators and the U.S. public. The United States did, however, participate in the occupation of the Rhineland and in accepting some of the German warships. The United States was also fully in conformity with taking over German proper-  124 To DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS 125 ties as far down as trademarks; to wit, the Bayer Cross, which protected also the name Aspirin. It was not until November 1994 that the German Bayer A.G. of Leverkusen bought back the cross for the substantial sum of U.S.$ 1 billion.2 The Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 had made the expropriation of private property of vanquished nations in the Rules of Land Warfare illegal. China also did not ratify the treaty because it gave Shantung Province to Japan, a decision that was reversed in 1922. Soviet Russia, which had abrogated the Brest-Litowsk Treaty in the dying days of the war, called the treaty a capital- istic plot and moved spiritually closer to the Germans. Next followed what is referred to as the Châteaux Treaties because peace was signed with every ex-enemy in a different château near Paris. Including the Versailles Treaty they all had a common structure. They all started with the Covenant of the League of Nations and ended with an article stipulating the establishment of an international labor council. In between were all the clauses about reduction of armaments, repara- tions, new frontiers, and other issues. As for aerial bombing, all treaties had one important clause: Article 198 of the Versa