ut had no detailed plans for how to attack such targets.1 These flights were a nuisance to Britain as much as the "nick- elling" aggravated the Germans. It went so far as to cause Göring to declare in a speech that he did not mind the leaflets but the Luftwaffe could and would prevent any bomb drop- ping on German soil. Just before war broke out he had made his famous "Maier speech" at Essen on 10 August 1939, saying that his name would be Hermann Maier if an enemy bomber reached the Ruhr.20 Through October and November, German policy still was that only military targets should be aimed at, although the list of such targets now included naval units in their bases, ship- vards, and harbor installations in all major British ports.21 The Royal Navy had chased all German commerce from the high seas and the blockade of Germany was again in full swing. The German U-boats did their part to repeat the World War I coun- terblockade of the British Isles, and the Luftwaffe extended that campaign by attacking the ships in the harbors. Signif- icantly, the orders excepted the London docks. Only tank farms, refineries, grain silos, flour mills, etc. in places such as Liverpool, the Manchester Ship Canal, Bristol, Cardiff, and similar harbors were to be attacked. Great emphasis was placed in the orders not to cause civilian casualties.22 The blockade of the British Isles was heightened by orders in December 1939 that all ships within thirty miles of the British coast could be attacked by day and night. On the other hand, ships sailing through Norwegian waters, irrespective of their nationality, could under no circumstances be attacked, since Britain had not interfered with the iron-ore ships from Narvik to Germany. The ore was vital to the German arma- ment industry, and neither the German navy nor the Luftwaffe could protect these shipments. The winter of 1939-1940 was one of the harsher ones in recent history, and the weather contributed to the prolongation of the "Phony War." O