rror of these raids were the attacks of the Eighth USAAF fighter bombers. They strafed people in the open who had escaped to the Elbwiesen, the flats of the Elbe River passing  254 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II through Dresden and people in the parks and on the roads leading from the city. They attacked columns clearly marked with the Red Cross insignia.247 No records can be found in U.S. archives about this slaughter. The action reports in the files of the AFSHRC at Maxwell Air Force Base speak of locomotives and railway cars destroyed, of tractors and trucks, and men- tion even the killing of two horses, but nothing of the humans deliberately shot at, as confirmed by many eyewitness reports contained in the literature. The number of identified victims reached 35,000. For years bodies and parts of them were excavated and many historians believe the often quoted figure of 135,000 victims to be closer to the mark. If this figure is true the Dresden raid exceeds the established worst casualty rate of 87,000 in a single operation on 9-10 March 1945 on Tokyo. Even the immediate death toll of the atomic bombs caused fewer losses. Dresden has been and will be remembered for the military mind having run amok. The soothing words by Air Marshal Sir Robert Saundby in the foreword of David Irving's book are scant comfort. His position as second-in-command of Bomber Command leaves no doubt that he participated in the planning of the night raids and the coordination with the USAAF. The delayed second wave of RAF bombers guaranteed a maximum of terror. Bomber Command dropped 1,478 tons of high explosives and 1,182 tons of incendiaries. The Eighth USAAF delivered another 771 tons into the smoking inferno.248 The city was 59 percent destroyed in twenty-four hours of raids. The Americans came back two more times, on 15 February and 2 March, to add to the chaos. The missions of the RAF continued. Of the more successful raids the one on Pforzheim on 23-24 February is notew