p at night bathed in sweat from a dream that I was crouched in a gutter not far away from our old home and the bombs were coming down around me. My friend Fred S. had a high fever when the main raid started. After escaping his air-raid shelter and rushing through fires he had no more fever. He was fit enough to walk with his parents about ten kilometers to board a train taking them to relatives in southern Germany the next day. In studying literature on what the Blitz did to civilians in Britain it is interesting to note that reactions there were the same as in Germany. People may have been temporarily shocked but there was no mass hysteria, little absenteeism from work, and no movement to force the government's actions. British morale did not crack. Less than 1.5 percent out of more than a thousand London shelter hospital patients showed signs of nervous problems.20 Similar feelings of relief after it was all over, as experienced by me, are reported.21 Calls for revenge against the German bombing came mostly from the unaffected and rural areas. The bombed citizens seemingly had no time to express an opinion. And it is said that these cries for revenge were exaggerated by the Beaverbrook Press.2 The attack on morale did not work, neither in Britain, Germany, nor Japan. There are claims that it worked in Italy but no hard facts could be found.23 Hitler had used the Luftwaffe as a psychological threat before the war to achieve his political ambitions. When he was coaxed by the fumbling RAF raids on Germany in 1940 to retal- iate and start the Blitz, if there was an intent to affect British morale, he failed. Churchill said in 1917 that nothing he had learned would make him assume that the German people could be cowed into submission by bombing. By 1940 he had changed his mind and let the bombers loose on German morale. He also failed.  12 THE VICTIMS AND THEIR TREATMENT Then one speaks of victims of the aerial bombings one W thinks of the unknown numbers of killed and