cke Veitshöchheim Oberdürrbach Areas actually bombed by RAF and USAAF Würzburg Unter dürrbach Zell RAF USAAF Hochberg Main Heidingsfeld W ürzburg had been bombed for the first time on 21 February 1942. The Bomber Command Operational Records Books indicate that twenty Hampdon bombers of No. 5 Bomber Group were dispatched to attack cities in south and southwestern Germany that night.1 These were the nui- sance raids which the leaders of Bomber Command had initi- ated to cause general disturbance in Germany. And disturb us they did. We had been sitting for some time in the shelter when there were a number of explosions in the distance. After a while the all-clear was sounded. Next day we learned that two bombs had been dropped in the eastern section of town. Nobody was killed or hurt and damage was light. The only real memory of this raid I have is that a few days later we were told by friends of the reaction of a child in a shelter near the bomb explosions. The child asked its mother: "Do we have to die now?" From the documents at the Public Record Office it would seem that one bomber was lost and in accordance with instruc- tions dropped its bombs on "any good looking built up area instead of bringing them home."2 RAF navigational aids at that time were rather inadequate and it is most likely that we were the target of last resort for a bomber crew that wanted to get home. Würzburg had also been given a lesson in July 1944. On a clear summer day, 21 July, 1,180 USAAF bombers were dis- patched from bases in Britain to attack targets in Germany. At noon twenty B-17s of the 1st Air Division suddenly came up over the city from the southeast and dropped twenty tons of 31  32 TO DESTROY A CITY THE RAIDS BEGIN high explosive bombs.3 Whether they were meant for the relo- cated ball-bearing factory, the Star Werke, or one of the Main bridges, is not clear from the references. But their bombs were loosened a few seconds too late and they all fell on a purely res- idential area