r clarifies at least the tenor of orders issued. My own experiences and those of members of my family certainly vouch for the bestiality of these fighter attacks. More than once did I have to dash into the ruins of Würzburg to avoid the bullets raking the street I was on. My aunt and cousin were on a field path near Krefeld when an RAF fighter came down and hammered them. They survived except for a few scratch- es. It is these aspects of the fighter bombers which require a special mental effort to dispatch to the annals of history which this study has set out to achieve. Bombing was an impersonal thing both for the bomber and the bombed. They never saw each other. Fighters were a different story. They took aim at people across short distances. The reactions of the civilians often included lynching a downed fighter pilot; which was no more despicable an act than the strafing by the fighter pilots. Both persons placed themselves outside the conduct of war- fare, although both could claim that they only followed orders. In the case of the German lynchers, there were orders from Himmler and Goebbels to do just that. (The fate of a U.S. fighter ace at the hand of a trigger happy German with a shot- gun evokes compassion, but in the final analysis also under- standing of the tragedy.)253 The public in the United States and Britain were still told that all bombing was against military targets only. There had been debates in the House of Commons in February 1944 when the bishop of Chichester questioned RAF bombing methods. Vera Brittain, the well-known British writer and pacifist, had published a thirteen-page article in the magazine Fellowship in March 1944 in which she quoted British, neutral, and German newspaper reports to show how ruthless and ferocious the bombing was. The report caused a stir in Britain and in the United States, but was soon forgotten and Vera Brittain was ostracised in her country for being unpatriotic. On 6 March 1945 British MP Richard Stokes, who