ervice in 1917, dissolved and control of all air warfare brought back to their respective com- mands. This was when Trenchard, then chief of air staff, fought his most famous battles. Trenchard succeeded in keeping and then enlarging the RAF as an independent fighting force. His reasoning was that Britain's "splendid isolation" had ended. As proven during World War I, the island's air space could be invaded at any European power's will in any future war at any time. Trenchard maintained that Britain needed a strong air force to defend itself. The defense was not to be waiting for the enemy planes to show on the horizon, but to destroy them at their home airfields. Offense was to be the best defense. Tren- chard's theories were similar to Douhet's, but seemingly con- ceived from personal experience during the war and formed independently of the Italian general's. To survive the next war, in Trenchard's opinion, Britain needed "a strong bomber force to destroy the enemy's hinterland. Attack with these bombers the enemy's civil population to reduce its morale and will to continue fighting." Although his detractors questioned his literary faculties, one must observe that Trenchard described his theory in short and concise form in submissions to Parliament, in meetings, and in press releases. RAF Bomber Command had not yet been formed when he left as chief of staff, but one can see his hand in Bomber Command's crest, which carries the motto "Strike hard, strike sure."9 As any survivor of RAF bombing in World War II can testify, they indeed struck hard. The "sure" part is a matter of opinion. In 1929 Trenchard resigned from the RAF and became com- missioner of the metropolitan police of London. But he never lost contact and influence with the RAF. Before and during World War II he made many presentations in public, the House of Lords, and the Cabinet exhorting political and military lead- ers to have bombers pound Germany with civilian morale a primary target. Another bom