ding tactical support for the army.76 The bomber was to operate in connection with the artillery in the battle zone. Air superiority was to be a prerequisite for that. This in turn meant a well- equipped and numerous fighter force. The French, like their fellow major powers, suffered from a shortage of funds, and therefore a purely defensive air policy appeared the solution. In the USSR the situation was governed by the geography of the country. In the tradition of the Muromets bomber the Soviets developed new large and long-range bombers. By 1930 they had about eight hundred Tupolev TB-3s. It had a range of thirteen hundred kilometers, could carry a bomb load of one ton, and had a crew of six.77 Because of its size it could be easy prey for modern fighters, and as a result the Soviets developed bombers carrying up to five fighters, which could be launched and retrieved in flight. Some of these planes operated until 1942 behind enemy lines.78 Despite these technical feats, the Soviets decided, as a lesson of the Spanish Civil War, that the role of the Red Air Force was to be tactical. The Soviets were afraid that long-range bombers could not only be brought down by enemy fighters, but also by electromagnetic beams. The Russian engineer Grammatshikov had experimented in that field in 1924 and had obtained promising results.79 In the years before World War II the USSR had the biggest air force, but only few strategic bombers. The Italians let their air force deteriorate after World War I, from five thousand planes and several thousand trained pilots to about one hundred obsolete machines.80 By 1926, under Mussolini this number had been increased to three hundred, and after 1932 the build-up continued, supported by a budget equivalent to U.S.$40 million.81 German air force developments had come to a dead stop with the signing of the Versailles Treaty. Supposedly all front- line planes had been surrendered after the armistice in Novem- ber 1918. In 1920 there were still