with few outbreaks of emotion. My own emotions and experi- ences at Würzburg were certainly along these lines. If one believes Goebbels's propaganda, there was even hostile reac- tion towards people who complained. A week after the heavy RAF raid on Bochum of 4-5 November 1944, a man was lynched by his fellow citizens because he criticized the German conduct of the war.210 There was no need for continuing the attack on morale. It had been proven ineffective. On 25 September 1944, new directives were issued from the Air Ministry and the leader of the USAAF to attack oil and transport targets in the following order of priority: Petroleum industry with special emphasis on gasoline and its storage Rail and water transport systems Tank production plants and depots Motor transport production plants and depots Only as an alternative were industrial targets to be attacked  244 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II if weather or other conditions prevented attacks on the pri- mary targets.211 It appears from that order that somebody at the higher lev- els had realized that morale bombing had not worked. But the back door was left open in the event the oil and transport tar- get systems would not work either. Portal, in chameleon-like fashion, insisted that Harris follow these instructions. For- gotten were his follow-up to Bottomley's memo of 14 February 1942 defining the aiming point as the city centers and his sub mission to the Cabinet of 3 November 1942. Harris in turn plowed along in his old groove and ignored what his chief had ordered. There followed an acrimonious exchange of letters between these two officers. It went on from November 1944 until February 1945, culminating in Harris offering his resigna- tion on 18 January 1945.212 If Portal would have had the courage to let Harris go, many an innocent civilian life would have been spared and Würzburg would not have been destroyed. The targets outlined in the instruction of 25 September were legitimate and importa