o invade enemy territory were a fraction of the opposing defense forces. But both countries had to station about the same num- ber of men and war material on their home soil to defend themselves. In other words, militarily speaking the calculation came out plus or minus zero. The means of destroying enemy bomb-carrying aircraft in World War I were rather basic. The intruding enemy was spot- ted by visual or acoustic means. A ground network of commu- nications would first of all decide on friend or foe. Next, cours- es and possible targets would be established and the defenses ground-based and airborne, would be scrambled. In a clear daylight raid the fighters and flak guns would train on their targets. At night the action was far more a question of luck. If an enemy bomber was "coned" by a searchlight it became a visible target for the nightfighter. The guns could only fire bar- 273 rages in the path of the bombers. If lucky the enemy bombers would fly into the cables of barrage balloons, but the fighters normally had to grope in the dark, unless there was moonlight. The organizations to detect intruding enemy aircraft in England were the Observer Corps and fighter sweeps. In Germany there was the Flugmeldedienst (aircraft detection service). In both countries these services reported to the mili- tary. The fighters on both sides were single-engine, single-seat bi-planes of the same type used on the front. The antiaircraft guns were first converted field guns mounted on swivel bases, but later the first antiaircraft guns as they were employed in World War II appeared. The dreaded and effective WWII German 88mm gun came into action in late 1918. Once World War I had been brought to its bitter end, and as governments struggled with budgets and the looming threat of the next war, Trenchard expounded his doctrine. After his retirement as chief of air staff, committees evaluated technical and scientific developments and thanks to men like Tizard, and also to a degree Cher