e report caused a stir in Britain and in the United States, but was soon forgotten and Vera Brittain was ostracised in her country for being unpatriotic. On 6 March 1945 British MP Richard Stokes, who had been critical of pro- nouncements on the bombing policy in the House of Commons since 1942, rose again to question the government. On 18 February an article appeared in the U.S. daily, St. Louis Post Dispatch, in which the correspondent reported after an interview with a high-ranking RAF officer that the Allies had now made the long-awaited decision to adopt deliberate terror bombing of German population centers. This article burst like a blockbuster into the Air Ministry, SHAEF, and U.S. govern- ment offices such as the Ministry of War and others. Air Commodore C. M. Grierson had let the cat out of the bag in a press briefing at SHAEF a few days after the Dresden raid. The report was immediately and forcefully denied by government and military leaders such as Secretary of War Stimson, Eisenhower, Spaatz, and Archibald Sinclair. The truth continued to be repressed and hypocrisy extend- ed even into military records as seen with the raid on Würzburg. The instructions from High Wycombe to No. 5 Bomber Group for the raid on Würzburg on 16 March stated that the attack was: "To burn and destroy an enemy industrial centre."254 The title block of the film made from one plane of No.5 Group during the raid says: 5 GROUP ATTACK ENEMY COMMUNICATIONS AT WURZBURG 16/17.3.45. Harris was against this camouflage of the actual purpose of bombing German cities. He requested the Air Ministry to publicly assess the area campaign not the least of it to confirm the bomber crews, who knew they were killing enemy civilians, in their duties and the open support of their government.255 Voices were raised and questions began to be asked. Churchill, the seasoned politician, saw the writing on the wall and sent a minute to Ismay, the chief of defense staff, on 28 March in which he questioned "