ulfill the obliga- tions instituted by the treaty? In addition to these treaty obligations, the German govern- ment also had internal obligations. There were war disability pensions to be paid, there was the cost of changing from a war footing back into peace, and there were the war bonds. During 127 the war, the Kaiser's government had begun to accelerate the printing of new money, because the cost of the conflict had become monumental and bonds could not finance it any longer. Now, after the war and in the face of national and treaty obligations, the government speeded up the presses even more. In 1914 four goldmarks were worth one U.S. dollar. In May 1921 it was 14.8 marks, in November 1921, 62.6 marks, and toward the end of the postwar German inflation it was 62 billion marks to the dollar.5 In other words, the money my grandparents had saved before 1914 to look after their retire- ment was worth nothing. The war bonds they had dutifully purchased, not least because they promised good interest, were just pieces of paper. I remember as a youngster playing with stacks of what would be called today monopoly money and collecting stamps with face values of millions of marks. The family's bonds, money, and stamps were eventually consumed in our attic by the firestorm of 16 March 1945. The German economy collapsed. The established sum of 132 billion goldmarks of reparations, in 1914 goldmarks, was equal to U.S.$33 billion. The U.S.$33 billion did not take into account the value of the lands, foreign assets, merchant navy, coal deliveries, occupation levies, etc. The men in charge of hammering out these conditions at the peace conference were politicians such as Clemenceau, Lloyd George, and their advi- sors. Under the circumstances it seems justified to turn the tables on Clemenceau and his comment about war being too serious a business to leave to the military. Perhaps peace is too serious a business to leave to the statesmen. Perhaps a Duke of Wellington at the Peace