110 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR I 111 that Britain as an island was still unassailable and that it could depend on its navy to keep the war from its shores. There were riots in the streets of London and looting of shops whose pro- prietors had German-sounding names.36 Anti-German pressure (not only because of the bombing) went so far that the royal house dispensed with its German name and has called itself Windsor ever since. Churchill had to fire the First Sea Lord Prince Louis of Battenberg, because of his German name and ancestry. There was talk of reprisals in high government cir- cles. Lord Fisher, who succeeded Battenberg, proposed to shoot one German national in British hands for every British civilian killed by German bombs. In the House of Commons there was talk about bringing downed flyers to trial, or string- ing them up outright.37 But the Zeppelins kept coming and it was not until the night of 2-3 September 1916 that Lieutenant Leefe-Robinson shot down the first.38 He received the Victoria Cross and became a national hero. The Germans also had many losses due to accidents and bad weather, and by the end of 1916 the Zeppelin campaign stopped. In 1918 the navy attacked the Midlands again but that effort was small and futile. During the entire war there were fifty-two Zeppelin raids on Britain with never more than three airships in one raid Most raids were single sorties. The total weight of bombs dropped was 196 tons, which killed 557 people and wounded 1,358. The material damage amounted to £1.5 million.39 A total of seventeen Zeppelins were lost in action. The consequential damage was immeasurable. The Germans, the Huns, had become the first to conduct a campaign of terror against an enemy civilian population from the air. They hit not only pri- vate homes but also schools, churches, and hospitals. They had hoped to break the morale of British citizens and thereby force the British government to sue for peace. Nothing of the sort happened. As