le had always felt threatened by the French on its way to India through the Mediterranean withdrew its capital ships to the United Kingdom. The German dreadnoughts seemed the bigger threat now. The battle lines were being established. The lines were set up by the ruling governments but with the full support of the public. Nationalism was on the rise. The rulers succeeded in lining up the masses behind them as nations. With the help of symbols and, last but not least, prop- aganda, the masses were controlled. The media were on the rise and since all Europeans could read, thanks to improved education standards, the masses were behind the desire to teach the Huns, the Boches, the Tommies, the Russkies, etc., whatev- er the national press called the coming enemy, a lesson-a short one, a powerful one, and a lasting one. The world was ready for war. THE MILITARY OPERATIONS The avalanche was set off with pistol shots in June 1914. This was all it took to get the masses moving. The shots fired at Sarajevo in Bosnia-Herzogovina killed the Austro-Hungarian crown prince. The masses were the armies, navies, and above all people that were mobilized in short order. Plans had been made by the general staffs of all the countries that declared war. The German plan was to smash France in a lightning attack through Belgium, finish it off, and then turn on the Russian bear in the east. It was assumed that Britain would 99 stay neutral and pose no problem. Or alternatively, that the British Territorial Army would come too late to assist on the Continent.13 Marshal Schlieffen's plan foresaw knocking out France within six weeks. What the marshal must have over- looked was the Royal Navy. Would it mothball its ships and let Tirpitz's navy rule the waves from then on? As Clemenceau, the French president, said: "War is too serious a business to leave it in the hands of the military." What the Germans may not have fully appreciated was that, through the Entente Cordiale, Britain was obligated