was called a raid on a transport center. The trans- port center, i.e. the railway installation, had already been demolished by the USAAF and the RAF raid was anything but an aimed attack on the railway or the harbor area. It was an "area raid" as it was called in official parlance. Next followed thirteen days of more continual alarms day and night but no bombing. The news from the battle fronts became worse, the overflights increased, and life was far from normal. We could not even listen to the radio because there was no electric power. The local newspaper was the only source of information and it was full of Nazi propaganda. The equally skewed news from the Voice of America and the BBC could not be received and frankly I did not miss them. We were being clobbered and the question in everybody's mind was how to survive the coming end. THE BIG RAF RAID By March 1945, nobody was under any illusion that Würzburg had now received its measure of bombs. Everybody deposited cartons, suitcases, chests, and whatever one could stuff some- thing into with friends either outside of town or in their base- ments in town. The idea was to spread the risk, to have at least some essentials if one's home was destroyed. I attended high school until it closed after the daylight raid on 23 February. The weeks before we had spent most of the school time in the shelter below the schoolhouse. It was a cramped and dingy place and the teachers had a terrible time 39 keeping us there. We were supposed to study, but who could under those conditions. I distinctly remember one morning when we had to go downstairs soon after school started. Our English teacher made us take along our books and we were to memorize Marc Anthony's speech to the Roman citizens from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar. I was studying from a beautifully printed and leather-bound volume of Shakespeare's collected works. With so many of our possessions it went up in flames a few weeks later. I have only memories left of this prec