tween the citizens. It meant that persons who had suffered little or no losses ; were taxed to compensate people who had been expelled from the eastern provinces of the Reich after the war and people who had lost everything in air raids. Any assets a dehoused persons might still have as the land of the destroyed home, investments, accounts receivable, etc. were assessed and 50 percent of the value became taxable. For many it became an additional hardship because they had to part with further belongings to pay the tax, which was due no later than 1978 including interest. By 1969 about DM 100 billion had been dis- bursed, about 70 percent to refugees from the East and 30 per- cent for bomb damages.22 For my five cousins and I it meant receipt of the paltry sum of DM 200 each for the ruin of an apartment house our grandmother had owned. For my father it meant a substantial payment because he owned real estate. For the federal government it undoubtedly was a political stunt employing a substan ostantial bureaucracy. Today there are still victims of the bombing war. In 1994 three workers were killed when they drove sheet piling into an unexploded WWII bomb on a property in Berlin.23 How many unexploded bombs still remain undiscovered as a deadly dan- ger in the ground nobody knows.  13 STRATEGIC BOMBING AND INTERNATIONAL LAW If war is an inevitable fact of human life, there must be a Lreturn to the battlefield and civilians must be left unhurt. Civilians in war zones will always suffer, but civilians far removed from the action should not enter the planning of the military. It was the intention of the signatories of the conven- tions in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries to codify the security of populations and their assets. When it came time to negotiate the terms and conditions of the conventions, the participating nations, despite all the humane clamor, had their own interests in mind and to protect. War itself was not to be outlawed. Only the conditio