.S. fighter escort is mentioned, but not clearly defined. One target system stands out as excluded compared with the earlier AWPD-1 and AWPD-42 documents-morale. Although the Eighth USAAF participated in the raids on Hamburg in July/August 1943, their attacks on shipyards and factories resulted in less than 1 percent of the total Hamburg civilian losses. 169 For all their valor, the American bomber crews paid dearly when it came to deep penetration raids in daylight. On 17 August 1943 the Schweinfurt ball-bearing factories and the fighter factories at Regensburg were the targets. The targets were damaged, but of the 376 planes dispatched, 60 did not return, and many of of the ones that did make it home were beyond repair. It was an expensive lesson as 550 air crew were either killed or captured.170 O . One plane fell in a built-up area of Würzburg, killing the crew but causing no losses among the inhabitants. Schweinfurt, located only forty kilometers north- east of Würzburg, brought the bombing war closer to us and we hurried to the air-raid shelters from then on whenever a daytime alarm was sounded. Before that nobody had paid much attention. These two raids brought to an end the U.S. doctrine of self- defending bomber formations. It is not reported, but the RAF bomber commanders must have said: "We told you so." What was badly needed was a long-range fighter plane that could accompany the bombers on their daytime missions and ward off the increasing number of German fighters. The Pointblank Directive indicated that the German fighter defense might number three thousand planes by 1943. The directive also stressed as one of the principal targets the German aircraft industry. This implied but did not spell out in so many words that air superiority was the key to the success of the directive. The experts should have read Douhet's book. As it turned out German fighter numbers increased dramatically. In 1943 over nine thousand single-engine fighters were produced.171 T