s of Rotterdam in particular had suffered losses that in a nation observing strict neutrality should never have been inflicted. Until 10 May, Holland had guarded its neutral status impecca- bly toward both sides. Planes infringing on Dutch territory were forced to land and crews and machines were interned. One straying RAF bomber was even shot down when it refused to land. The crew survived and was interned until 10 May.33 Why Hitler decided to invade Holland is beyond compre- hension. From his point of view one can understand that he violated Belgium/Luxembourg neutrality to enter France as in World War I. A neutral Holland would have been of such  178 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 179 advantage even if Germany had won the war. The iron-ore ships from Scandinavia would have been beyond destruction by the RAF once they entered Dutch waters. For the ore to get to the Ruhr it had to pass through Rotterdam. It was the most economical route. Finally, Holland would have been a legal barrier for the RAF bomber streams in later years. In Britain, Chamberlain had resigned and Churchill had become prime minister. The thirty thousand casualty figure and other German raids were judged by the Cabinet to allow retali ation. On 15 May the air ministry was authorized to order raids on German soil east of the Rhine. Before that date, RAF Bomber Command and bombers of the Advanced Strike Force stationed in France had flown ground support raids on German commu- nications and advancing army units from the Rhine westward The losses of the Advanced Strike Force were extremely heavy. Between the 10th and 15th of May, seventy-one Battle and Blenheim bombers were dispatched. Only thirty returned and most of them were badly damaged.34 Now the bombers were finally free to attack German targets as had been planned for years under the Trenchard Doctrine. Before the fateful date of 15 May, during the night of 11-12 May, thirty-seven Hampden and Whitley medium bombers had made the fi