Hall and the Coventry Cathedral, and raids were launched on historic Bath. Further damages in London were inflicted on the National Gallery, the Tate Gallery, and the British Museum Buckingham Palace received damage and St. Paul's Cathedral was only saved because brave men extinguished the fires on the dome. These so-called Baedeker raids were purposely dis- patched to cities with cultural assets. As the war progressed it became apparent that the military paid little attention to enemy treasures. Since the Ministry of Economic Warfare (MEW) was able to prepare lists of the strategic installations in target cities, it should also have indicated the cultural assets before recom- mending a raid. It would have acted in accordance with the 1907 Hague Conventions and the 1923 Rules of Air Warfare. The great fire at the Alexandria Library destroyed half a mil- lion documents and books and was considered for 2,000 years the biggest cultural loss in time of war. Twenty-five million German books were destroyed in the bombing raids in World War II.5 The Würzburg University alone lost 550,000 volumes. The military leaders, perhaps understandably so, did not consider the enemy's culture. On 26 November 1943 the Marquess of Salisbury questioned Sinclair in the British Parliament about Harris's pronouncement of bombing "until the heart of Nazi Germany ceases to beat." Sinclair defended Harris's statement confirming that there are terrible human and material losses.6 Earlier in September, Lord Esher, chair- man of the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings, 299 had written Sinclair urging a more cautious approach in the bombing of museum towns and had enclosed a list of eight such cities which should not be bombed. After some discus- sion the air staff advised Sinclair that the ongoing campaign did not allow avoidance of such monuments, particularly, if there would be additional personal danger to the air crews- an understandable, but still regrettable statement.7 A commit