d to believe that such a raid could be flown. The next one-thousand bomber raids on Essen and Bremen were failures because, as before, the targets could not be identified. Instead the bombers unloaded all over the countryside. But the means of Bomber Command were improving. More airplanes and b d better navigational equipment came into action. From the erratic bombing raids in 1940-41 the missions turned into the beginning of the bomber offensive against Germany as described by Webster and Frankland. Upon Portal's insistence and against Harris's advice, a pathfinder force was established. Using the OBOE and H2S navigational equipment it began to locate the target cities with great accuracy. In accordance with Churchill's instructions of 31 October 1940 to consider the morale of the Italian people a "target," bombers were dispatched in still small but ever increasing numbers to north Italian cities from October 1942 onward. Cities like Genoa, Turin, Milan, and La Spezia were hit. Industrial damage and civilian losses were the same as in Germany. Losses to the bombers were smaller because the Italians had no nightfighters and were not as far advanced as the Germans in their radar systems. The flight paths led over Vichy France which had no air force to defend its neutrality. Harris says that the effect on Italian morale was enormous. About 300,000 people, half the population of Turin, fled the city after the second attack.147 Despite the Portal paper to the Cabinet outlining how Germany alone would be attacked, demands on Bomber Command to attack other targets continued. The German U- boat campaign was still in full swing and on 14 January 1943 an order was issued, signed by Bottomley, to area bomb the  220 TO DESTROY A BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 221 submarine bases in the French Atlantic ports.18 The German navy had built bombproof pens for the U-boats so no damage occurred to them. But the cities around the pens were devas- tated and many innocent Frenchmen were killed