en sold in the world markets for generations. The machine tool capacity of the factory had been used after every raid on the ball-bearing factories at Schweinfurt, about forty kilometers from Würzburg, to repair the damaged and salvaged ball-bearing production machinery. There may have been production of strategic value, but as the factory was completely destroyed by the USAAF and artillery fire on 31 March 1945, no records survived.2 21 Further smaller industries in and around Würzburg at the time included the chocolate factory Franconia, a plywood and exotic wood sawmill, two breweries, and a small ball-bearing plant relocated from Schweinfurt after the raids on that city. But certainly of military-strategic importance were the bar- racks of the 55th Infantry Regiment, the artillery barracks adja- cent to it, the barracks housing a communication unit of the army close to the Noell plant and the Hindenburg Kaserne (barracks) near the Koenig und Bauer plant. The Wehrmacht had several big warehouses adjacent to the railway yard. They were crammed with food supplies when the war ended. Then there was the Fliegerhorst (airfield) of the Luftwaffe on the hill east of the city. It had been a clandestine military training school during the Weimar Republic. When Hitler started to build up the Luftwaffe from 1933 it was fenced off and a secre- tive building activity began. By the end of the war it must have been a Luftwaffe experimental station, because I remember the Me-262, the world's first jet fighter, screaming over the city when it took off or landed. Würzburg, as a functioning city, had water and gas works aside from the above mentioned electric power installations. These works supplied their services to the inhabitants and to the established industry and commerce. There have always been considerable commercial installations not only for the city itself but above all for the large agricultural hinterland. Agriculture is a prominent factor in the life of this area. Las