here was also a steady flow of American made planes coming in via Alaska. Roosevelt, who had declared the United States the arsenal of the democracies, ordered these deliveries to a peoples democ- racy while the United States was still neutral (and had laws to prevent such sales). Until 1945 the USSR received about 18,500 U.S. and British built aircraft.97 By early 1943 masses of tanks, guns, and aircraft pushed the Wehrmacht back. General Korten, the Luftwaffe chief of staff, tried to assemble a force that would strike behind the Urals. It was a feeble attempt and resulted in raids on the Molotow Tank Factory at Gorki, the Saratow oil refinery, and the city of Jaroslavl in June 1943.98 About 1,100 sorties were flown and about 1,500 tons of bombs dropped. It was hoped that the bombings would also have an effect on Russian morale. But the raids could not be sustained. The Luftwaffe was too occupied with tactical warfare and it also lacked long- range bombers.99 The halfhearted attempt at quickly develop- ing a four-engine plane was a failure. The Heinkel He-177 became more of a threat to its crews than to the enemy.100 201 With the major strength of the German air force deployed in Russia after June 1941, the operations in the west dwindled to nuisance raids on Britain. Sperrle was still in charge of Luftflotte 3. His bomber force was reduced to about 150 planes of which only 100 may have been serviceable. They attacked cities from the Channel coast up to Hull, but the tonnages delivered were never more than fifty tons per raid. It was ter- ror on a small scale, even though the terror was extended by the intermittent shelling of Dover by the coastal batteries placed at the Pas de Calais from 1941 onward. Some 148 civil- ians were killed in these bombardments which rained down without warning. 101 The Luftwaffe was also busy in other places and had to spread its resources. In the Mediterranean, Malta became a major target. German troops under General Rommel had been d