e ongoing campaign did not allow avoidance of such monuments, particularly, if there would be additional personal danger to the air crews- an understandable, but still regrettable statement.7 A commit- tee was set up under Harold McMillan for consultation by the War Office and the Air Ministry, but there are no records that there were any consultations. In Germany it was not until May 1942 that the government decreed that art treasures must be removed or protected from bombs. Galleries were closed and their moveable exhibits stored in castles, vaults, and even individual homes in the countryside. Yet soon these places were not considered safe any longer and the treasures were shipped farther afield to salt mines and dry caves. By the time industry was being relocated underground, the art treasures were moved again to less suit- able places and many suffered irreparable damage. Historical monuments that could not be moved were bricked up. The local party organizations decided what were historical monu- ments and, if metal-cast statues were considered not in line with party ideology, they were removed and melted down. From April 1943 onward photographs were made of all immoveable art works, historical buildings, paintings, etc. Most of these photographs survived the war and were used in the reconstruction and restoration. The question of protecting art treasures from bomb damage became very acute after the Allies landed in Italy. Churchill and Roosevelt became involved. In December 1942 Churchill approved Portal's plan to bomb Palazzo Venezia, Mussolini's home and office. Churchill further approved the delivery of 4,000 tons of bombs per month on Italian cities. By August 1943 Roosevelt pleaded with Churchill to declare Rome an Open City. The Germans under Kesselring had withdrawn their troops from the center to indicate their concern for the Eternal City. Churchill's reply via the foreign secretary to Roosevelt's plea was "to continue to bomb Rome remorselessly."8 Th