ecame refined, and modern warfare can no longer be considered without it. Air forces of all major powers have become a third armed service (after armies and navies). They operate under the same rules as the two older services. Once the Wright brothers' invention could carry a load, the military value of the airplane was apparent. Scientists and engineers developed and perfected the carrying capacity, the navigation to the target, and the efficiency of the deadly loads dropped. To reduce the cost of warfare the bomber seemed the ideal weapon, a premise which could please any politician. Conversely it increased the status of the military, gave them more influence in the conduct of wars, and they proved that building bomber fleets had economic and commercial benefits. The bomber commanders promised they could destroy pin- 53 point targets causing great discomfort in the hinterland of the enemy. The Germans started it in World War I, failed, killed civil- ians and, rightly so, were branded mother and children mur- derers. The RAF tried the same method in World War II. It also failed. The damage done by high-explosive bombs, even when they reached the target, was not what was expected; raids could not be flown at daylight because of enemy defense and finding a pinpoint target at night proved impossible. The bomber generals and marshals were at the end of their rope if they wanted to conduct the war in a civilized manner. Since the military were unable to deliver on their promises they pro- posed and received permission from the politicians to attack complete cities-to hit anything you have to hit everything.2 But even that policy did not bring the desired results and ful- fill the expectations. The solution was to attack not only whole cities but to burn them to the ground. The fire raid using a mix- ture of H.E. and incendiary bombs and causing firestorms proved the ultimate answer. It was practiced first by the Luftwaffe over Britain starting in September 1940, experim