hey thought they were home safely. Three German fighters came down too low and crashed. It was the last Luftwaffe action over British soil in World War II.250 The Wehrmacht was out of fuel and supplies, and in gen- eral in disorganized retreat. The attack on oil and transport, although only carried out halfheartedly, was one of the many thrusts that made the German army expire. Of the 182,000 tons of bombs dropped on Germany in the months of January to April by Bomber Command only about 5 percent fell on oil tar- gets and 3 percent on transport. Of the 188,000 tons dropped by the American bombers 63 percent fell on industrial and transport targets. The fighters continued to strafe anything that moved as they had been instructed. As late as 7 March 1945 RAF Fighter Command issued a further target policy in which it was expressly stated that nothing could be attacked in still German- occupied Holland, Denmark, and Norway. But anything could be attacked in Germany, except "that the provisions of the Red Cross Conventions are to continue in force."251 The document is signed in the name of Air Officer Commander-in-Chief Fighter Command Sir Roderic M. Hill. The reference to the Red Cross  256 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 257 Conventions is meaningless because not until after World War II were Red Cross Conventions signed concerning air warfare. In many accounts of the air war it is said that the fighter attacks on German civilians in 1944-45 matched what the Luftwaffe had done to Belgian and French refugee columns in 1940. Against these statements one must hold Göring's instruc- tions of 1940 that Stukas and fighters attacking marching columns must ascertain their military character before firing on them. 252 Comparing the Fighter Command order with Göring's order clarifies at least the tenor of orders issued. My own experiences and those of members of my family certainly vouch for the bestiality of these fighter attacks. More than once did I have to dash int