s had become advanced and the Pforzheim raid, flown by 380 planes the night of 23-24 February 1945, claimed about 17,000 lives.16 Compared with Dresden, which had happened five weeks earlier, and the Hamburg raids of 1943, the W端rzburg raid was of the small category. But the efficiency of it was devastating. Bomber Command did not waste any time assessing the results. On 18 March we were photographed again, while the city was still burning. On 19 March, High Wycombe issued a preliminary damage report and on 10 April a final one.17 The reports claim that the city was 90 percent destroyed. They men- tion that the railway facilities were further damaged, that industrial enterprises such as Noell AG (the steel fabricator), St端rtz (the printing house), Frankonia (the chocolate factory), and others were hit. It is correctly stated that the city hall and 45 other administrative buildings were destroyed. So were the bishop's residence, several hospitals, the Residenz, and many university institutes. Where the reports lose some of their cred- ibility is when under transport targets destroyed they list Alter Bahnhof and S端dbahnhof. The Alter Bahnhof (the old railway station) had been decommissioned before the turn of the cen- tury. The S端dbahnhof (a suburban station) was nothing more than a whistle stop. Military installations are listed as lightly damaged and nothing was said about the Luftwaffe base. There was no mention of the harbors, the marshalling yard, and other installations in the referred to MEW Baedeker List. It is apparent that Bomber Command had not been provided with an update of the target list, as otherwise they would have proudly stated that they had destroyed a submarine hull facto- ry and a ball-bearing plant. The leaders of Bomber Command must have been satisfied that the job was done, because the RAF never came back for a follow-up visit. During the raid we were also "on camera." One aircraft circled over us and filmed the whole fireworks. The film is ma