e Fili factory, was interested not only in surviving on German army orders, but also pursued the pro- duction of commercial aircraft. The Rapallo Treaty allowed the establishment of a German commercial airline from Sweden via Moscow to Iran. Junkers developed and provided the planes. But it appeared that not all was commercial. The Ju-52 airliner. cum auxiliary bomber of Spanish Civil War fame and transport plane of the Luftwaffe until 1945, came out of this scheme. In 1926, when the International Air Agreement was signed in Paris, Germany had the most efficient air lines in Europe. By that time the Versailles Treaty had permitted return of control over German air space to the German government, as well as the construction of commercial aircraft. Their capacities and technical specifications were still very much limited, but the Germans rose back into the air. The War Ministry took advan- tage of that by having soldiers in civilian clothes become air- line pilots, gaining flying experience before sending them to Lipetsk for combat training. The Germans also had not quite given up on the Zeppelins for military purposes. This was at the time when the United States was experimenting with air ships as flying aircraft carri- ers, launching and docking fighters in flight. The Germans developed two huge Zeppelins, which undertook commercial flights to such distant places as Tokyo and Rio de Janeiro. Regularly scheduled service from Frankfurt Rhein/Main Base, the forerunner of today's Frankfurt Airport, to Lakehurst, New Jersey, near New York, was established. It took sixty hours in considerable comfort, albeit no smoking allowed, because the whole ship was kept afloat by hydrogen gas. It all ended in dis- aster when in 1937 the Hindenburg went up in flames at Lakehurst with heavy loss of life. Filling the airships with heli- um would have been the answer, but helium was only avail- able in commercial quantities in the United States, and sale of 155 such a strategic commodi