the Royal Navy. There were no German landing craft and not even a marine corps. Hitler made speeches and clandestine approach- es to inveigle Churchill and his cabinet into peace talks. There is even speculation that his deputy's (Rudolf Hess) flight to Scotland in 1941, to persuade the British government, was pur- posely planned by both and not the madhatter's trick of Hess alone, as the world was told.50 The full truth will not be known until the Hess files at the Public Record Office are declassified in 2017. But in 1940, how could Hitler be believed, when at the same time he openly concentrated troops, aircraft, and barges in the Continental Channel ports, and had exercises conducted for the invasion. Who could believe him when the U-boat cam- paign increased in ferocity and German long-range aircraft patrolled on shuttle missions between newly acquired air bases in France and Norway, the western approaches to the British Isles? It was the Focke-Wulf FW-200, dubbed by Churchill the scourge of the Atlantic, which accounted for 580,000 tons of lost shipping in 1940 and a further 1 million tons in 1941.51 Hitler's stick and carrot scheme convinced Britain even more that it had to fight, although the prospects were grim. The only hope lay in the entry of the United States on Britain's side, and there were many signs that this was about to happen. Germany's anti-Semitic stance and its open agitation in German communities in South America scared the leaders of the U.S. government. As a result U.S. neutrality became less neutral. While the RAF continued to bomb targets in Germany and the occupied territories, the Luftwaffe started on 15 August a campaign to soften up southern England with raids on fighter bases, communications, and many other legitimate targets. On 1 August, Hitler had given the order that starting on 5 August (Eagle Day) air superiority over southern England had to be established in four days. Weather and Luftwaffe technical 185 problems delayed the s