re unhappy about the assigned role and convinced General George Marshall that the B-29 was unsuitable for tactical work. But the Nimitz Plan was adopted and at the same time the Twentieth USAAF was created with the intent of a strategic air campaign against Japan.263 The Twentieth USAAF was to have 1,000 to 1,500 B-29 bombers and an unspecified number of fighters. The bases on the Marianas were to be operational in December 1944. By early 1945 U.S. army, Marine, and navy forces were evicting the Japanese from one island after the other, coming ever closer to the Japanese home islands. The campaign was a U.S. effort with some help from the Australians and New Zealanders. No British forces were involved because they were still engaged in Europe. The U.S. thrusts were commanded by Admiral Nimitz and General MacArthur. They planned and conducted naval, land, and amphibious campaigns approach- ing the Japanese islands from the southeast and southwest respectively. They hoped to make Japan surrender having real- ized the futility of further combat; failing that, they hoped to reach positions for invading the Japan mainland. Early in 1945 Admiral Nimitz had his navy air force carri- ers sail closer to the Japanese islands as the Japanese navy had been practically defeated. Nimitz's planes attacked coastal towns but did little damage. There were ninety aircraft carriers and escort aircraft carriers with 14,000 planes, part of them sta- tioned on recently captured Okinawa Island, pounding away at the southern Japanese harbors.264 The situation was different for the U.S. Army Air Force units dispatched to fight in the Far East. Until late 1944 they were providing tactical support for ground and navy opera- tions in China and the Pacific Islands. The Twentieth Air Force flew first from Burma to later establish itself in southern China. Since 1941, before Pearl Harbor, General Chennault had organ- ized the Flying Tigers to help Chiang Kai-shek. The impact of these operations wa