many in the event that hostilities should arise with Britain and France.16 The neutrality of Belgium and Holland was to be strictly observed; small enemy formations were not to be pursued over neutral territories and combats of larger formations over these countries was subject to approval by Göring himself. The orders for the Luftwaffe units in the west were to guard the Ruhr industrial area, playing a strictly defen- sive role. On 3 September, Göring followed up with Order No. 2. which strictly forbade raids on British soil and made attacks on British naval and merchant ships subject to his approval. 1 Even attacks on troop ships crossing to France could not be flown. Yet a day later, Göring approved a raid by two bombers on an aircraft carrier in the harbor of Shearness. On 10 September 1939, even Hitler issued orders not to cross the western border of Germany. It is obvious from these orders that the German High Command was concerned about not having enough aircraft to fight any British or French raids on Germany while Luftflotten 4 and 6 were engaged in Poland. As soon as victory in the Polish campaign was a certainty, most of the Luftwaffe formations were relocated to the west. In his Order No. 4 of 23 September 1939, Göring reiterated that any air war would have to be started by the British and/or French air forces. But British naval units in the Heligoland Bight could be attacked, and preparations were made for retal- iation raids on still-to-be-determined British towns if the RAP should attack German cities.18 Similar planning was to be effected for retaliation raids against Paris and Marseille in the event L'Armée de l'Air was to bomb Germany. Reconnaissance flights over Britain were authorized because the Luftwaffe had prepared target folders before the war but had no detailed plans for how to attack such targets.1 These flights were a nuisance to Britain as much as the "nick- elling" aggravated the Germans. It went so far as to cause Göring to declare in