t war, Trenchard expounded his doctrine. After his retirement as chief of air staff, committees evaluated technical and scientific developments and thanks to men like Tizard, and also to a degree Cherwell, fighter squadrons were created and radar stations built. By the time of the battle of Britain in 1940, fighters and radar stations had been brought under the capable command of Air Marshal Sir Hugh Dowding, the first commander-in-chief of Fighter Command. It was this combi- nation which doomed the Luftwaffe attack on the RAF instal- lations. Military defense had been streamlined. There were superior fighter planes such as the Hurricane and the Spitfire and they could be guided by the radar stations. British radar could detect aircraft flying at 15,000 feet and over, well inside France, the Low Countries, and the North Sea. Closer to the British Isles, aircraft could be spotted flying as low as five hun- dred feet. The maximum range of Sir Robert Watson-Watt's device at the beginning of World War II was about one hun- dred miles.4 By 1939 there were 53 fighter squadrons, 2,232 heavy and 2,000 light guns, 4,128 searchlights, and 1,450 balloons in Great Britain.5 Originally Fighter Command was not equipped for night combat. By early September 1940, when Hitler decided to let the Luftwaffe bombers start the Blitz, there were ten  274 TO DESTROY A CITY MILITARY AND CIVIL DEFENSE squadrons ready to receive them. Again, they could be guided by radar, which works well day or night, fog or clear weather. On the German side, propaganda tried to convince the peo- ple that there was a continuous, 50-kilometer-deep flak belt behind the Siegfried Line, as part of the western defenses. No enemy bomber would penetrate that zone. The belt supposed ly extended from the North Sea to the Swiss border. There was no such belt. When war broke out, there were sufficient anti- aircraft guns and listening devices to station them around many western German cities. But that was all. There we