ies at night over German cities, dropping propaganda leaflets. The cities were mostly in the Rhine/Ruhr area, where there were known to be German workers with strong Socialist and Communist sympathies. It was a waste of time and effort because again many targets were missed and the leaflets ended up in open country. Although historians might disagree, the German people were so overfed with propaganda from both sides that they believed neither. The bomber crews did not like the raids because that was not what these young men had joined the prestigious Bomber Command for. The raids were given the derisive name "nickelling." Chasing German ships on the open sea continued. There were raids on naval and commercial craft but the results were disappointing and continued to be costly, even though they were flown far off the German coast. As an example, on 18 December 1939, quoting RAF records, 22 bombers attacked German shipping and 15 planes did not return. The German report of that encounter lists 44 bombers attacking and 34 being lost.15 The period from the end of the Polish campaign until 9 April 1940, when German forces invaded Denmark and Norway, is called the Phony War. The Phony War was fought mostly at sea with little action on land and severe restrictions imposed on the combatant air forces by their respective gov- ernments. Nobody wanted to throw the first bomb, lest the enemy unleash a campaign of retaliation. On the German side the fear of retaliation was just as pro-  172 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 173 nounced. One day before the invasion of Poland, Göring advised in his Order No.1 that Luftflotten 4 and 6 should com- mence hostilities against Poland at 04:45 on 1 September 1939. Luftflotten 2 and 3 were ordered to guard the western frontiers of Germany in the event that hostilities should arise with Britain and France.16 The neutrality of Belgium and Holland was to be strictly observed; small enemy formations were not to be pursued over neutral