o DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR I 101 France wanted Alsace-Lorraine back with Germany as a harmless buffer between France and Russia. This became one of the major aims, particularly after the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917. Germany wanted a preventive strike to counteract pressure from the East and the West. Britain wanted the German navy and German competition out of the world. Russia wanted to help Serbia and acquire an ice-free port in Turkey and Bulgaria felt slighted by Serbia after the Balkan War of 1912-1913. Europe. Japan needed land and raw materials. The wild card in this line-up in August 1914 was Italy From the French the Italians wanted lands they thought were theirs by historical right, and from Austria they wanted the province of South Tyrol. Despite its obligations under the Triple Alliance, Italy stayed out of the war until 1915, until a secret protocol was signed with the Entente that guaranteed it South Tyrol. The people who had no designs, neither on their neighbors nor in the economic field, were the Belgians. They were the first to suffer from this conflict and took the worst beating until it was all over. Of course the planning by the military on both sides had been faulty. Neither side could force a crushing defeat on the other in short order as planned. A long, drawn out conflict was becoming reality. And with it the attitudes hardened Depending on who one would listen to, the other side started to commit acts contrary to international law, contrary to the conventions, and contrary to humanity. The British navy imposed a blockade on the Central Powers. The conventions had not outlawed naval blockades. The Declaration of London of February 1909 confirmed that block- ades were legal.17 While the Allies felt justified, the Germans said it was war against women and children, starving them. The Germans retaliated with their U-boats. Again, not outlawed by the Hague Convention of 1907, but a dastardly way of warfare by the standards of the Bri