er pilot in World War I, with twenty kills to his credit. Ernst Udet, the quartermaster general of the Luftwaffe, had also been a fighter pilot in World War I. He is credited with developing the dive- bomber as a weapon. Udet's and the Luftwaffe staff's idea was that the divebomber guaranteed a higher rate of success in hit- ting pinpoint targets. As such, it suited the Wehrmacht's aims. and above all its budget, much better than the horizontal bomber. The only German who could qualify as a bomber theoreti- cian was General Walther Wever, who was chief of staff of the emerging Luftwaffe from 1933 to his death in an aircraft acci- dent at Dresden on 3 June 1936. Wever, an army officer until 1933, was a staunch nationalist who, like the majority of the German people, despised the Versailles Treaty and thought that an historical injustice had been done. His loyalty to the Kaiser's army tradition was very strong and he therefore had little use for Hitler and Göring. But he was convinced that Hitler and the Nazi government could and would rectify the wrongs of Versailles. As chief of staff of the Luftwaffe he recognised the impor- 67 tance of the bomber, and in particular the strategic bomber. Under his aegis, the German aircraft manufacturers Junkers and Dornier developed what was called the Ural Bomber; long-range aircraft that could strike as far as the Soviet facto- ries behind the Ural Mountains. As an extension of the Douhet and Trenchard doctrines, he theorized that destroying the enemy's armament production potential would stop the sup- plies to the front line and facilitate the defeat of the enemy army. That his bombers were called Ural Bombers did not mean that he saw only the Soviet Union as a possible future enemy.23 Wever's entire outlook on aerial warfare, in his capacity as chief of staff in the early 1930s, is condensed in his speech at the opening of the Air Warfare Academy at Berlin-Gatow on 1 November 1935.24 In this address he stressed his belief that