and was reported as acts of defense against the Nazi aggressors. By November 1941 Roosevelt had no problems having the 1935 Neutrality Act repealed. This meant war-like U.S. operations could be brought out into the open. In the Far East a similar collision course was apparent with Japan. U.S./Japanese negotiations were still going on when 207 Japanese carrier planes bombed the U.S. naval base at Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941. The world was told that the attack came without a declaration of war. This was true because the Japanese diplomats in Washington had their instructions mud- dled and saw the U.S. foreign secretary after the raid had hap- pened. The Japanese had started an undeclared war by default. Whether the U.S. government knew about the impending attack on Pearl Harbor is a moot point and has been the subject of several studies. Back on the Atlantic side Hitler lived up to Germany's obli- gations under the Tri-Partite Pact and declared war on the United States on 11 December 1941. It could not have pleased Roosevelt more-Hitler again the aggressor. Churchill was delighted and saw the fulfillment of his diplomatic efforts. Hitler, the master diplomat, had now brought the 400 million people of the British Empire, the United States of America, and the Soviet Union against 100 million Germans. The major Allied powers controlled 60 percent of the world manufactur- ing capacity. Germany with its allies controlled 17 percent.113 No fast blitzkrieg could overcome these potentials. If Hitler had hoped that the United States would first try to direct its war efforts against Japan his intelligence sources had let him down. If he had hoped that Japan would also live up to its obli- gations under the Axis Pact and declare war on the USSR, he again had miscalculated. How the German government and military leaders thought they could win this war is beyond comprehension. It showed their incompetence and arrogance, and for that alone they should have been brought to trial