r frontiers. The Red Army had about 5 million soldiers fac- ing 3.5 million German and allied troops. The facts are that the Soviet Union was concentrating its military forces in the west from 1940 onward. Why were they there? Were they to strike out west and if not why were they unable to stem the inferior German forces? The Red Army seemed to have been taken by surprise. Millions of Russians were killed or taken prisoners and th d thousands of Red Air Force planes were destroyed by the Luftwaffe in the first few months of the campaign. There can be no doubt that the reason for the USSR forces being in position was to extend world communism and to return to the age-old Russian desire for an open, ice-free access to the oceans. There can be no doubt that the clash between the two nations was to happen sooner or later. The only question that remained was who would strike first. Goebbels may have been right, for once. The Russian armed forces were prepared for war. They had superior numbers of tanks and artillery and these were of bet- ter design. The Red Army had twelve times more guns than the Wehrmacht and seven times more tanks. The Soviet air force was the strongest in the world. It had about 17,000 planes, about five times as many as the Luftwaffe. The German aggres- sors had only about 1,500 tanks and 6,000 guns.86 Twenty-three million Russians worked in the war industry which consumed 43 percent of the national budget in 1941.87 Aircraft production alone was slated to reach 1,500 machines per month in 1941. The industry was working around the clock to reach this goal.88 Based on past blitzkriegs, Hitler calculated that by the end of 1941 the USSR would be defeated and he could then turn west again to finish off Britain. He was utterly ill-informed about Russian strength and intentions. It was believed that the USSR armed forces were leaderless because of the 1937 purges when 90 percent of the the generals and admirals were executed on trumped-up charges of tre