s, the last signed on 16 February 1919 for an unspecified period. On 11 November 1918 the fighting was officially over and the question arose whether the victors had achieved what they had desired. France had rectified Bismarck's biggest insult and mistake of 1871. Alsace-Lorraine was French again. Germany was no longer a threat to France, but behind Germany's eastern fron- tier rose a new threat: Bolshevism. Britain had eliminated the German navy, had under occu- pation its most valuable colonies, and had blown German com- merce off the globe. Russia had gained nothing and was fighting a civil war. Italy occupied South Tyrol and has called it Alto Adige ever since. Japan was an absolute winner at little cost to itself. It expanded its empire at the cost of the Far East and Pacific Ocean German colonies. The United States had considerable human losses in the meat grinder called the Western Front. But economically it came out on top. It had gone a step further in becoming a world power. Based on Wilson's Fourteen Points it was ready to become the spiritual leader of the world. Belguim was a nation which had suffered so severely that no retributions could make it a victor. The First World War was a disaster for both victor and van- quished. Area bombing with its attacks on civilians had start- ed-a new method of warfare had come into practice. The human losses had been relatively small, but for anybody killed by the bombs the loss was absolute. The armistice agreement of Compiègne understandably  122 To DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS 123 forced the Germans to hand over all bombers, but the Allied bombers were left intact. What followed next was the signing of peace treaties. Except for Russia, all the victorious powers were invited to Paris for a peace conference. Contrary to the customary niceties of international law the vanquished powers were not invited. This was to speed up the process and avoid any wrangling. The Paris Peace Conference of 1919 can be comp