ence one could acquire most of the necessities of life. Electric power had been restored to the livable houses in the outskirts, even to our "Gartenhaus." A newspaper appeared, irregularly first, but then at least once a week. From the paper and the radio we were informed that we were all really a bad bunch. Toward the end of the war the Goebbels propaganda had told us that we were bad because we were not sacrificing ourselves enough to win the war the Nazis had brought about. Now we were being told that we had done too much to support that evil Nazi war, and that collec- tively we were guilty. The biggest Nazis were brought before the War Crimes Tribunal at Nürnberg. Volumes of books have been written about that event and to this day expert opinions differ about the justification and the legitimacy of it all. The victors had intended to call the Kaiser and other German military com- manders into the dock at the end of World War I. The Compiègne Armistice of 11 November 1918 states that. The Versailles Peace Treaty signed in June 1919 did not elaborate about it any further. This time the Allies were not to make the 9 same mistake again. Germany's armed forces had uncondi- tionally surrendered and the very short Reims surrender doc- ument of May 1945-compared with the lengthy Compiègne document of November 1918-and the Berlin surrender docu- ment of 8 May 1945 made it clear that the Allied Supreme Commander could order any measure.3 Hitler, the Reich presi- dent and chancellor or Führer, as he was called, was dead. Before his suicide he had installed Admiral Dönitz, the famed commander of the U-boats, as president and Joseph Goebbels as chancellor. But the latter had also committed suicide. Legally speaking, based on common international law, there was a German government, theoretically in charge of the coun- try, its people, infrastructure, armed forces, etc. But based on the unconditional surrender the Allies took the political lead- ers prisoner on 23 May 1945,4 i