reparation payments, sus- pended since 1931 for economic reasons, would be suspended indefinitely. German troops marched into the demilitarized zone west of the Rhine. General conscription was reintro- duced, with every able-bodied young German man to serve two years in the Wehrmacht, as the Reichswehr was now called. The personnel strength of the German army thereby increased from 100,000 to 500,000 men. And, last but not least, the veil of secrecy was pulled off the Luftwaffe. Not only did the Luftwaffe become the third fighting service of the Wehrmacht, it was shown to international visitors and its actual strength exaggerated with considerable boasting. Between 1935 and the outbreak of World War II, Göring and Milch did their utmost to bluff foreign visitors. This took grotesque forms, such as cramming as many fighters as possible into an airport where French military dignitaries stopped for refueling on a visit to Germany. At the Zurich Air Show, Germany displayed souped- up models of its latest bombers and fighters, which at the time were still in the prototype stage. When the British government representatives Simon and Eden visited Hitler in 1936, they 157 were told that the Luftwaffe had surpassed the RAF in bomber and fighter strength. In 1937 Göring confided to the visiting Lord Trenchard that he hoped that his German fighters would never have to fight RAF fighters, because the German models were so superior.97 Göring went as far as to put on a sonic recording of divebombers, telling Trenchard that this was the noise of events to come.98 Further shows were staged after the annexation of Austria and Czechoslovakia, on 15 March 1938 and 17 March 1939 respectively. While Hitler reviewed the parades of army troops in Vienna and I and Prague, the Luftwaffe appeared overhead in great numbers as part of the spectacle. Of the 540 planes over Vienna, 270 were bombers. The bluffing worked. It scared Germany's neighbors, and such displays entered the arsenal of Hitl