d overhead in great numbers as part of the spectacle. Of the 540 planes over Vienna, 270 were bombers. The bluffing worked. It scared Germany's neighbors, and such displays entered the arsenal of Hitler's diplomatic weapons. In the United States there was very little planning for an air force in the 1920s and early 1930s, very much to the dissatis- faction of General Mitchell and like-minded military person- nel. This attitude changed after the Geneva Disarmament Conference had failed and major nations around the globe began to rearm. U.S. military planners started to be concerned about Italian and/or Japanese navies appearing on the horizon of the U.S. east and west coasts. In 1934, the Boeing company of Seattle had succeeded in winning a competition for a long- range, four-engine bomber which could fly out over the oceans and intercept enemy navies. By 1938, quantities of this bomber, the deadly B-17 of World War II, comprised a large portion of the USAAF. At the time it was the only four-engine, long-range bomber in the world. In Japan, the army and the navy maintained firm control over their respective air forces, with the result that bombing was considered tactical and not strategic warfare. After the failure of the Geneva Disarmament Conference, every country rushed into the arms race and the major powers began to build up their air forces. There were differences in the theories and equipment. Britain led the way in deploying the bombers. France, Russia, Italy, Japan, and Germany looked at bombers as a tactical weapon and the United States perceived the bomber as a long-range coastal defense weapon. The sophistication, and with it the cost, of an aircraft had  158 To DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS risen exponentially since air warfare had begun in World War I. A British aircraft engine manufactured in 1935 would require 8,000 to 9,000 man-hours. These were five times as many hours as required for a 1918 aircraft engine. By around 1938, an up- to-date bo