4-5 June.41 Reports indi- cate that they found their target and did some damage at Ludwigshafen. The raid on the BMW Works is not recorded, neither in the BMW nor the city of Munich archives.42 The ques- tion arises why could the supposedly ill-equipped French bombing force find and hit its assigned targets, whereas RAF Bomber Command missed them most of the time, as later investigations showed. On 5 June, l'Armée de l'Air issued orders to stop raids into Germany, basically for fear of German reprisals and also because the few planes left could be bett e better applied by attack- ing tactical ground targets. L'Armée de l'Air was fighting in the north against the Germans and l'Aéronautique Navale took over fighting the Italians in the south. Mussolini, encouraged by his friend Hitler's successes, did not want to be left out of the spoils of the impending French defeat, and declared war on France and Britain on 10 June. Italy was still exhausted from the wars in Ethiopia and Spain, but taking booty from the French, particularly Corsica, Tunisia, and Djibuti, seemed an easy gain. The Regia Aeronautica bombed French air bases and other military installations in southern France and North Africa with limited success. Mussolini was soon taught a lesson as to what war was all about when RAF Bomber Command, a day after Italy entered the war, started to fly raids into northern Italy. The nights of 11-12, 15-16, and 16-17 June, Wellingtons, Whitleys, and Hamp- dens raided Turin, Genoa, and Milan.43 Turin reported seven- teen people killed and forty injured. The Italians were obviously caught by surprise because the cities had not been blacked out. The RAF planes had to fly from airfields in Britain, with refuel- ing stops on the Channel Islands, because the French objected strongly to raids being flown from their homeland. At one time they even barricaded a runway in southern France to prevent RAF planes from taking off.44 After the British Expeditionary Force had successfully