p- pened at Guernica. The accounts vary from the above Republican statements to Franco's version. Analyzing the facts and reports one cannot deny that the raid happened. The word went out that the Huns had been let loose again and had shown their true colors. Von Richthofen has been blamed for it all, and his later involvement in the bombing of Warsaw did not help his image. What on first sight seems strange is the number of victims. Guernica had 5,561 inhabitants. There were no shelters and there was no air-raid warning system. The forty-five tons of bombs, according to Lord Cherwell's scientif- ic calculations in World War II, could not have killed 1,645 peo- ple. However, it was market day in Guernica on 26 April and the population had swelled to about 10,000. Still, 16.5 percent fatalities with only forty-five tons of bombs dropped from mostly auxiliary bombers would have made Bomber Harris proud a few years later. Other sources maintain that one hun- dred people were killed.58 Evaluating available statistics, one would find that it took only 0.027 tons to kill a civilian at Guernica whereas later during the Blitz the Germans needed 0.25 tons and Bomber Command required 0.2 tons at Würzburg to achieve the same grisly results. The news spread like wildfire around the world. Berlin was 147 embarrassed and kept silent. The Goebbels-controlled press never mentioned the raid. Eden, the British foreign secretary, called in Ribbentrop, the German ambassador in London, and proposed an international inquiry. Franco, with the connivance of the Germans, declined. World opinion later coupled Guernica with the German bombing of Britain in 1940-41, and the idea that it was a trial run for the Luftwaffe has persisted since. What made Guernica truly famous (big by standards of the time though small by World War II standards) is Picasso's huge painting called "Guernica." He produced it on the orders of the Republicans shortly after the raid. Its abstract mysticism has fascinated