withdrawn their troops from the center to indicate their concern for the Eternal City. Churchill's reply via the foreign secretary to Roosevelt's plea was "to continue to bomb Rome remorselessly."8 The under- standable military reasons were that Rome was a railway center.  300 To DESTROY A CITY LOSS OF CULTURAL ASSETS Roosevelt's particular concern was damage to the Vatican He proposed that bomber crews be so instructed and be pro- vided with maps to avoid bombing the Holy See including the four churches in Rome, which per the Lateran Treaty are apos- tolic property. Air Marshal Tedder, the most cosmopolitan and intellectual of all RAF commanders, strongly favored caution in bombing Rome.9 But George Marshall and Eisenhower con- sidered only the military value of the marshalling yards and on 19 July 1943 at 11 A.M. USAAF B-17s unloaded. The yards were hit, but bombs being an inaccurate form of artillery also fell on some churches and their treasures. The outcry of the Catholic world was immediate and a second raid was cancelled.10 Rome was not the only place in Italy that suffered. Italy from Sicily to its northern borders was subjected to the some- times senseless destruction of palaces, churches, and other ancient buildings. The most senseless was the destruction of the Abbey of Monte Cassino. The bombing was tactical, but added nothing to the advance of Allied troops. Over two hun- dred USAAF bombers completely flattened the sixth-century monastery. Fortunately a few weeks before a German staff offi- cer had persuaded the abbot to evacuate all moveable treasures in German army trucks to the Vatican. A total of 80,000 books and 1,200 ancient manuscripts were delivered by 120 trucks into the hands of Vatican authorities.11 Allied propaganda only reported the removal of the treasures, not the destination, and called it a typical Nazi art robbery. Of course, the removal of cultural assets by occupying powers is a fact of warfare. Göring was not alone in this, althoug