ing was par- ticularly hard hit. In late 1937, twelve hundred bombers dropped five hundred tons of high explosives, a considerable tonnage at that time. The bombing represented the prelude to the plundering and raping of that venerable city. The international media reported the outrages of the major raids and soon presentations were made in Tokyo to stop the carnage. The British, French, and American efforts succeeded in having Japan agree to the establishment of sanctuary zones. By November 1937 such an area had been created in Shanghai next to the Foreign Concessions. A quarter of a million Chinese civilians fled into this area and were safe. The Japanese faith- fully observed the immunity of the place. Similar zones were created in other major cities and have been credited with sav- ing tens of thousands of Chinese lives.70 A similar scheme would have made World War II less ruthless. It was proposed in 1939, but the belligerents all found reasons of their own not to pursue it.  150 To DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS 151 With the bombing experiences of World War I, the raids occurring afterward, and with the political developments in Europe and the Far East, it is easy to understand that after the breakdown of the Geneva disarmament conference, many nations began to be concerned about their safety. Rearmament commenced and every nation blamed the other for having started it. Rearmament, of course, meant building up air forces. because attempts to outlaw or limit them had been prevented' To what degree the respective air forces were built up and received funds from the treasuries depended on whether the air force was an independent service or attached to the army or navy. It also depended on whether Douhetism was considered a fact of modern warfare or was belittled by the two tradition- al services. When the leading airmen were free of the shackles of the conservative army generals and navy admirals, they could convince legislators that air forces, and bomber