nd their expected impact on German morale As the war went on and the cruelty developed correspond- ingly, further means of poisoning enemy civilians and their countrysides were invented. Both sides, of course, always pre- tended that they would only employ their weapons if pro- voked. But like a modern-day accidental missile launching, the danger of chemical warfare actually happening was immense. In a letter to Churchill dated 19 April 1943, Stalin proposed to warn Hitler of a powerful retaliatory attack if the Germans used gas in the front lines.9 In March 1942 the Red Army had captured a German Ju-88 which, in their opinion, was equipped with tanks for gas delivery. The USSR requested from the British government supplies to retaliate. They were assured that in the next convoy there would be 1,000 tons of mustard gas and 1,000 tons of other agents for chemical attacks. Churchill stated that if the Wehrmacht used poison gas at the Eastern Front, Bomber Command would attack German military installations with gas bombs. But internally Churchill and Portal were concerned that the Russians were trying to inveigle the RAF into starting gas warfare. Any German actions would have to be verified beyond the slightest doubt to avoid serious consequences. The Ju-88 was in fact found to have extra fuel tanks not suitable for carrying gas.10 Agents, gases, and bacteria were developed which could poison large areas for up to five hundred years. A compound became available which would cause damage to the human spleen. If fifty kilograms of these germs were dropped on a city of 500,000 inhabitants, 60,000 would become sick and 24,000 would die. The city would have to be evacuated and then destroyed by conventional means. It would be a variation on the Douhet Doctrine. Gas would come first. Churchill ordered 291 500,000 of these 4-1b. bomblets from the United States, where there had been production facilities for this type of weapon for some time. 11 The main British research and d