oreticians who proposed bombing. In May 1933, the Lufthansa director Dr. Knaus submitted a secret document to the German Air Ministry. The civil airline director, turned military expert, rec- ommended how the Luftwaffe should be organised. He explained how the bomber force should attack Paris and the French armament industry in Lyon, Dijon, Besançon, and St Etienne. Further targets would be Warsaw, Byalistok, and Brest-Litowsk.27 It is claimed that Dr. Knaus's recommenda- tions were later implemented in the bombing raids in the Spanish Civil War by the Condor Legion of the Luftwaffe fight- ing on the side of Franco and, in World War II, when Warsaw. Rotterdam, and Belgrade were attacked. In summing up, one must conclude that there were few men who expounded area bombing on a scientific and ration- al basis. It was the bomber practitioners from 1914 onward who perfected area bombing on a trial and error basis with devastating results. They were all military men. 4 THE BOMBER PRACTITIONERS Te must now turn to the bomber practitioners. These were W the people who conducted the death and destruction which we call the bombing war. But before looking into the lives of these leaders it seems necessary to review the defini- tion "practitioner." They were all military people of elevated rank. They commanded and controlled great numbers of men and machinery and were responsible for the spending of vast sums of money and resources of their respective countries. They dispatched the squadrons that brought death and destruction. Prior to Douhet, Trenchard, Mitchell, et al, with their theories, these practitioners made use of the technical advances in aeronautics to conduct this new type of warfare. In WWI it was the German Zeppelins, Gothas, and Riesenflug- zeuge that spread terror over. Britain and France. The Allies were not far behind in retaliating. The men in charge of these carriers of destruction could be called executioners or imple- menters. They executed and implemented