s destroyed.68 Compared with what the Luftwaffe could deliver, this was small retaliation. The morale of neither people wavered and the the respective governments became convinced that their own people had superior moral qualities. Bomber Command was still ham- pered by a lack of good navigational equipment which result- ed in missing targets or hitting the wrong ones. The Luftwaffe on the other hand could place its bombers within four hundred yards of the intended target with the help of radio directional beams crossing over the target area. British historians report that damage to strategic targets in Britain was substantial. It surprised the Air Ministry and RAF staff. One historian goes as far as to state that the Germans did not even intend indiscrim- inate bombing of civilians.69 As part of a sideshow of the Blitz one must mention the Italian participation in it. Mussolini, never to be outdone by German successes, dispatched against German objections a small air fleet of the Regia Aeronautica to the Channel coast. From 25 October 1940 to 5 April 1941 the RA had eighty-seven fighters and seven-eight bombers stationed at Belgian airfields. They flew raids against southern England cities and in five months dropped about fifty-five tons of high explosives.70 The operations were sporadic and historians on both sides of the Channel seem to belittle the effort. Part of the Italians's prob- lems was that their aircraft were technically inferior to the Hurricanes and Spitfires. The existence of the Italian contin- gent at the time of the Blitz and its actions against Britain caused Churchill to declare in the House of Commons on 30 September 1941 that the RAF should bomb Italy, with the intent of knocking it out of the war; and particularly Rome because the RA had bombed London.71 It never had, but that was a fine point which a man like Churchill could ignore when it came to condoning raids on the Eternal City. By early 1941 the mutual bombing campaigns were at a cross