ng houses are destroyed by high explosives and not by fire. Factories are more seriously damaged by fire than by explo- sives. There was no breakdown of morale in either city. These were only the most important findings. The report was used by Cherwell for his minute to Churchill. There was one detail in the minute which Cherwell overlooked or misin- terpreted. Zuckerman said that steady employment and a high rate of wages are the major stabilizing factors for the popula- tion. If that applied to Hull and Birmingham, why would it not apply to German industrial workers? Why would they rebel against their leaders keeping in mind not only national feelings but also the experience of high unemployment during the Depression? One wonders whether Cherwell, a recognised sci- entist, was not out of his depth when it came to drawing soci- ological conclusions from the effects of his recommended bombing theories. Zuckerman says it was Cherwell who was responsible for the planning and execution of the area bomb- ing policy of World War II. For Zuckerman it became clear that area bombing was not a way to win the war; in other words, he was at odds with the area bombers. This did not mean that he condemned aerial bombing. He was in favor of precision bombing of strategic targets such as railways and general infrastructure, but not with morale as the main target. Zuckerman's approach to the whole problem was very scientific. He studied the results. evaluated them statistically and then drew impartial conclu- sions. As an example, he concluded that destruction of railway targets would help to win the war. To destroy a railway center, four 500-lb. bombs must be dropped per acre of the center.19 Lord Zuckerman was wrong in only one respect. In his report on Hull and Birmingham he states that most dwellings were destroyed by high-explosive bombs rather than fire. This may have been the case, but probably because the Luftwaffe hadn't concentrated on incendiaries during its raids. Bombe