d have been whether the intended target had any flak defenses. It must have been the reason the two Mosquitos stayed seventeen min- utes over the city. They must have observed to their great sat- isfaction that nobody was shooting at them. The next night, 5 February 1945, No. 8 Group returned with four Mosquitos for another experimental raid. They stayed twenty-seven minutes above us at thirty thousand feet and let us have nine tons of high explosives. This time "small alarm" had been sounded, but just barely before the first bombs exploded. We had just made it into the shelter. A total of four bombs were dropped and the blast of one of them smashed the shop window in my father's store; the first material damage my family suffered in the bombing war. The four bombs were widely scattered over the city and, as with any of the previous raids, their impact locations did not indicate a desire to hit a specific target. Six people were killed.  34 TO DESTROY A CITY THE RAIDS BEGIN After a lull of one week, on 12 February No. 8 Group returned with four Mosquitos and carried out another experi- mental raid. They stayed only five minutes over the target and dropped seven tons of blast bombs over a wide area. The B.C report lists that there were no defenses. The damage was neg- ligible as some of the bombs fell in open fields and nobody was killed or wounded. Yet, if our measure was being taken, more experimental raids were obviously necessary, because a week later on 19 February at 8:30 P.M. six Mosquitos of No. 8 Group returned and dropped eleven tons of blast bombs. Full alarm had been sounded long before and all the tenants of our building were sitting in the shelter when the first bombs came down. There appeared to be many of them and after the second one I sprawled out on the floor. We could not feel any blasts but the walls of the basement shook and the plaster began falling off. After what seemed like the end of the raid, I went upstairs into our flat and confronted th