must continue with what I found out about this raid when I researched the events. For the night of 16-17 March 1945 the Bomber Command War Diaries list as targets for major raids the cities of N端rnberg and W端rzburg.11 Further raids were flown by fifty-six Mosquitos to Berlin and twenty- four Mosquitos to Hanau and a few other places. A total of 717 aircraft left British bases that night. Thirty did not return, a loss rate of 4.2 percent. A loss of 5 percent of the dispatched planes was considered the highest acceptable by Harris. It is surpris- ing that at this stage of the war German defenses were still effective despite the loss of early warning radars in the previ- ously occupied western countries, the efficiency of the British radio war, the lack of fuel for the Luftwaffe planes, and the tur- moil caused by the advancing Allied armies. In the afternoon of 16 March, the headquarters of Bomber Command had instructed No. 5 Bomber Group to attack "Grayling" (the code name for N端rnberg) and "Bleak" (W端rzburg) with two hundred-plus aircraft each. The instruc- tions must have originated in the morning meeting and they were routine but very explicit. The teletypes gave routings to and from the targets for the bomber stream, bomb and fuel loads, strategy of marking the target, bomb release for each squadron with timing and altitude over the target, and many more details.12 The most fateful teletype for us on the ground contained the instructions for the Mosquito Pathfinders of No. 5 Bomber Group to mark the target area.13 The aiming point was identified as an easily recognizable athletic field along the Main River. From there the Pathfinders had to outline the target area with their marker bombs. The master bomber flying over the city just prior to the raid was to assess the marking and call for corrections with further target indicators of a different color. His instructions were quite explicit and left no doubt that the 43 area foreseen for destruction was properly mar