ay it was similar and dur- ing the short periods of no alarms we had to work hard to sal- vage from the businesses what there could be salvaged. We owned a little garden cottage about five kilometers outside of town. It was more like a shack. Cold, damp, with hardly any furniture and no water. The sanitary facilities consisted of an outhouse at the end of the property. Now at the end of each day we mounted our bicycles and rode to the cottage. It was not comfortable, but we could sleep without interruption. We were on the way to our nightly quarters when the raid of 3 March started. No bombs fell in our vicinity, since we were already outside the marked area. Yet we were ready to jump into the ditch along the road any time. We felt the blasts and concussions of the detonating bombs and realised that this was more than just a small raid. Once the bombing stopped we returned to the city and inspected our properties and the places where we had stored, in the basements of friends and relatives, goods and valuables. Streets had become difficult to pass through because there was rubble from bombed houses or  38 To DESTROY A CITY THE RAIDS BEGIN glass which would have cut the tires of our bicycles. It was the heaviest raid Würzburg had endured so far, but one could see that the firefighters, civil defense, and police were coping with the situation. None of the previous raids, not even the last one, had made the daily news bulletins issued by the German Supreme Command. Undoubtedly the reason was that there had been bigger raids on other cities and that raids of the magnitude we suffered were so common that they could not all be listed. Last but not least such a listing would not have made a good "party line" press. On the Allied side the 3 March raid was widely publicized. It was called a raid on a transport center. The trans- port center, i.e. the railway installation, had already been demolished by the USAAF and the RAF raid was anything but an aimed attack on the railwa