m Newfoundland to the Caribbean  206 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II for the delivery of fifty old U.S. Navy destroyers. All of these operations had to be done clandestinely because they were against the Neutrality Act of 1935. In summer 1941 more and more of U.S. neutrality crum- bled. Because Britain needed to deploy more troops in the Middle East it was evacuating Iceland. U.S. Marines took over from the British army. Roosevelt and Churchill met at Placentia Bay, Newfoundland, to proclaim the Atlantic Charter. It was basically a rehash of Wilson's Fourteen Points promising free- dom from fear, of the seas, and other freedoms; above all self- government to all nations. It seemingly applied to victors and vanquished of the present war. As in 1919, the vanquished were not permitted to enjoy the benefits of the Charter in 1945 The unofficial but very significant parts of the conference were the secret meetings of the military staffs. Roosevelt through General Arnold, commander of the U.S. Army Air Force, had four senior officers prepare what has gone into the history of bombing as the Air War Plans Division AWPD-1 Plan. It had been worked out in cooperation with the RAF in Britain and covered the following subjects:112 Air defense in the Western Hemisphere An air offensive against Germany Strategic defense in the Pacific Theater Air support for the invasion of Europe After the defeat of Germany, a strategic air offensive against Japan History unraveled as foreseen and planned at Placentia Bay. Germany tried desperately to avoid a war with the United States. The German navy wanted its U-boats to fire back when attacked by U.S. destroyers. Hitler forbade such actions. But they happened and the two countries continued on a collision course. The shooting increased and was reported as acts of defense against the Nazi aggressors. By November 1941 Roosevelt had no problems having the 1935 Neutrality Act repealed. This meant war-like U.S. operations could be brough