mind and let the bombers loose on German morale. He also failed.  12 THE VICTIMS AND THEIR TREATMENT Then one speaks of victims of the aerial bombings one W thinks of the unknown numbers of killed and wounded civilians. They include the victims of Britain, France, and Germany in World War I, the Ethiopians, Spaniards, and Chinese between the two world wars, and the masses of Europeans and Asians who suffered in World War II. However it was not only civilians who were killed and wounded. Many soldiers became victims. An airman shot down and falling into the hands of the enemy could end up in a POW camp, all in accordance with the Geneva Conventions. The other extreme was that he was lynched or shot by people of authority or hys- terical civilians. In World War I, Lord Fisher, the outspoken First Lord of the Admiralty, threatened to shoot any captured German bomber crew member who would come down over Britain. Sounder minds prevailed for fear of reprisals and all German airmen stranded in Britain were treated in accordance with the con- ventions. The same applied during World War II, when Luftwaffe crews were locked up in POW camps. The suffering of Allied bomber crews started with the Doolittle raid on Japan in 1942. Eight U.S. flyers were caught in China and all were sentenced to death by a military court in Shanghai. Only three were executed (there is a terrible picture of a blindfolded kneeling flyer with a Japanese official poised to behead him). The other five were sentenced to life impris- onment by the "Emperor's Grace."1 The Western community in 313  314 To DESTROY A CITY THE VICTIMS AND THEIR TREATMENT Japan, including the German embassy, were shocked by the executions. German reporters asked pointed questions at a press conference, but were given the advice to treat RAF flyers caught in Germany in the same manner to stop the raids of Bomber Command. Some gauleiters and in particular Hildebrandt o Mecklenburg wanted the court-martialing of downed Allied bomb