iderable forces the Germans never mustered more than fifty bombers. Bomber fleets raiding Britain were small, with the biggest raid carried out by twenty-eight Gothas on the night of 19-20 May 1918. Between 1916 and the end of the war, the KAGOHL, the squadron that was under direct con- trol of the Army Supreme Command, carried out twenty- seven raids on the British Isles. As daylight bombing became expensive in losses, nineteen of these raids were flown under the cover of darkness. The most effective ones with regard to civilian lives snuffed out and damage inflicted were the ones on Folkstone on 25 May 1917, in which ninety-five persons were killed, and on London on 13 June 1917 with 162 people killed. The latter raid, in typical fashion, was meant to destroy docks, wharves, and warehouses in East London, but there was also a hit on an East End Council School. "Incidental" losses were 120 innocent school children killed or wounded.47 The German communique stated that the raid was a success in destroying the intended targets. British opin- ion was undoubtedly that the "Huns" had visited them again. Public opinion was described as hysterical for both protection and revenge. 48 The Gothas and the Riesenflugzeug also raided French cities, and were frequently used to bomb tactical targets near the front line. Paris had suffered only isolated small air raids for two years after the Zeppelin raids over France had been discontinued because of heavy losses in 1916. However, in order to underline the impact of the German land offensive of 21 March 1918, Paris was attacked in that month by a greater force. The civilian toll was 250 people. The material and moral damage of one such raid was probably negligible. What brought home to the Parisians that they were unpro- tected was another German weapon. The front was about 120  114 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR I 115 kilometers (72 miles) away from Paris. The city could not be considered to be located near the fighting.