ort of a body count, he could have attacked small, undefended cities only. The risk would have been smaller and the results even more spectacu- lar. That in the end defenseless cities such as Würzburg were raided and efficiently destroyed is, of course, proof that the military machine works like a bulldozer. There was no stop- ping Harris from taking his campaign and his theories to the very end. It is his ordering the bombing beyond reason and the call of duty that made his name anathema to many people after the war. He showed no concern for the suffering the attack on morale was causing. Yet, when it came to his own life, he is quoted as being delighted that he did not have to leave his family in an area of Britain, which at the time was still being bombed by the Luftwaffe, when in June 1941 he was sent on a second mission to the United States.19 It must have crossed his mind that a bomb could make his loved ones suffer. Harris's biographer, Dudley Saward, portrays him in the best of light. Not so merciful is Charles Messenger.20 Sir Charles Webster and Noble Frankland in The Strategic Air Offensive against Germany, 1939-1945 even went as far as not to consult Harris in the preparation of their official history.21 Yet all agree that he was a dedicated officer, concerned with the welfare of the soldiers under his command, and that he never took a leave while he was in charge of Bomber Command.22 He had the respect of men in the highest places, such as Roosevelt and Eisenhower, right down to the airmen he sent on these dan- gerous missions. It was the esteem he commanded in high places that probably caused Portal not to sack him when the two disagreed on target priorities in early 1945. Harris stub- bornly continued to order area raids. He was convinced his method would work better and, above all, he finally had all the men, machinery, bombs, and materials at his disposal to prove it. Last but not least, his past exploits, like the first "Thousand 79 Bomber Raid," o