e floor. We could not feel any blasts but the walls of the basement shook and the plaster began falling off. After what seemed like the end of the raid, I went upstairs into our flat and confronted the damage. Windows had been blown out, with glass shards everywhere. Some doors had become unhinged, but otherwise there was little damage. The nearest bomb had fallen about one kilometer away. However that bomb had done considerable damage to my father's store. It had come down about fifty meters away from it and destroyed several buildings. The three-hundred-year-old woodframe house that my grandfather had bought in 1888, in which there was the store and where he lived upstairs, withstood the blast, but in it there was complete chaos. My grandfather and his housekeeper, ever the optimist he was, had not gone to a near- by shelter and when the bomb exploded fifty meters away they were both thrown down a flight of stairs. Unbelievably, they both survived, got up and walked to the shelter up the street- he was eighty and she sixty. Obviously this had been a bigger raid. Most of the bombs had fallen in the inner city. A total number of 112 people were killed and many injured. Immediate damage was consider- able and grew worse during the night when fires caused by thrown over furnaces spread. One of them must have been in my grandfather's place or nearby, because hours later the top floors were on fire. On these floors my father had stores of the 35 stationery business he owned. All the fires were soon brought under control by the city fire department. But the cost to us was high, because what the blast and the fire had not destroyed, the water of the firefighters had soaked completely. From the events that followed, but not apparent until long after they happened, Würzburg had now obviously been "experimented" with enough and Air Marshal Harris could make the decision to send his forces to attack. The routine for selection of targets for each night started with a morning m