he German government and military leaders thought they could win this war is beyond comprehension. It showed their incompetence and arrogance, and for that alone they should have been brought to trial. 1942: TURNING OF THE TIDE Allied fortunes continued to decline for a while. Pearl Harbor for all its callousness was a tactical raid, intended to knock out the U.S. Pacific fleet as a threat to Japanese conquests in South- east Asia. It was the United States which started area and indiscrimi- nate bombing in the Far East. Out of frustration over the con- tinued setbacks, twenty B-25 twin-engine bombers were loaded on the aircraft carrier Hornet and dispatched once they  To DESTROY A CITY 208 BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II were within striking distance of the Japanese islands. The operation was under the command of Colonel James Doolittle and has entered history as the "Doolittle Raid." On 18 April 1942 the bombers scattered their loads over the Japanese islands, did little or no damage, and most of them landed in China as previously arranged with that new ally. It was a stunt of no military significance, but of considerable publicity value at home. The public were told that only military targets were destroyed. At that time this was still the true and professed policy of the U.S. Army Air Force. Over in Europe in early 1942 the British chiefs of staff reconfirmed that the bomber was the only weapon with which to fight Germany and Italy. But the revelations of the Butt Report resulted in changes. Air Marshal Sir Richard Peirse was replaced as commander of Bomber Command by Air Marshal Arthur Harris on 23 February 1942. Opinions are divided as to whether Peirse was made the scapegoat for the poor perform- ance of Bomber Command. He was appointed commander of RAF forces in India, certainly a step down from the most pres- tigious post of commander-in-chief of the bombers. The plan- ners at the Air Ministry could not blame themselves for not having supplied the RAF with modern na