lism about being killed, but I had a tremendous anxiety about being buried alive in an air-raid shelter. After the main raid and after it was clear that we had all survived but had been bombed out, I had a feeling of relief that after months of tension and worries it was finally over. We had touched bottom and except for our lives there was not much more to lose. Contrary to what is said by some psychologists, we were not demoralized to the extent of resignation and idle- ness. We went ahead and salvaged what there was to be sal- vaged, beginning the day after being dehoused. I was not afraid of time-delayed bombs, assuming instead an attitude of kismet. But they did go off for days after the raids. The day after the main raid, despite my father's pleas, I went to the house we had lived in to salvage some of the precious things I had stored in the basement into which mirac- ulously the fire had not penetrated. Soldiers were helping neighbors to recover their belongings and they were also get- ting ready to take my valuable violin and a basket of wine bot- tles from our locked wine cupboard, which had been pried open. I strapped these belongings onto my bicycle and left. A  310 To DESTROY A CITY PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF BOMBING 311 few hours later, across the street from the old apartment, a time-delayed bomb went off. Fortunately neighbors and sol- diers were gone and nobody was hurt. This was my personal experience with looting and time-delayed bombs. While walking through the burning city and collecting as much as we could carry from the various places we had stored goods, my father and I encountered several men who had drunk themselves senseless. A lasting effect of the raids was a recurring nightmare. For about twenty years, with decreasing frequency, I would wake up at night bathed in sweat from a dream that I was crouched in a gutter not far away from our old home and the bombs were coming down around me. My friend Fred S. had a high fever when the main raid s