etal. Harris defended his neglect of the Mosquito bombers with statements that many more Mosquitos would have been needed to deliver the same loads as the heavies.152 Had he ever considered the greater accuracy and smaller waste of bombs? By mid-February 1943 Bomber Command had done its duty on Lorient, having dropped four thousand tons of bombs and completely destroyed the city. St. Nazaire's turn came by the end of the month. It was attacked several times until April at which time it was realized that the U-boats could not be touched in their pens and that the only effect of the bombing was French civilian losses. Despite Pathfinders, OBOE, and H2S, the accuracy of bombing sometimes still left a lot to be desired; fortunately for those who thereby escaped the bombs. On 3-4 March 1943, 417  222 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II bombers were dispatched to raid Hamburg. The Pathfinders made a mistake and the town of Wedel, thirteen miles from Hamburg, was destroyed instead.153 Hamburg only suffered lightly, presumably because a few bombers did not follow the Pathfinders markings. But following Saundby's musings, there was at least some benefit gained out of a failed mission. Wedel. with an important naval clothing store the only real strategic target, was a field of ruins. From March till July 1943, Harris tried to wipe out the Ruhr industrial area. Great damage was done to the Krupp Works at Essen and the cities of Dortmund and Duisburg. Civilian loss- es rose and with them the inadvertent killing of Allied prison- ers of war and foreign workers voluntarily or forcibly staying in these towns. Other towns were attacked to keep the German defense spread out. The war was coming closer to Würzburg when Frankfurt, 120 kilometer west, was raided on 10-11 April by five hundred aircraft. Noteworthy raids of the time were the destruction of the Eder and Möhne dams on 16-17 May. A bouncing bomb had been developed to skip over the water until it hit the dam, where it s