r, Roentgen had discovered X-rays in 1896. Further institutions for learning included a teachers' academy and academies for music and agriculture. The list of significant non-military objects within the city limits of Würzburg in March 1945 would be endless. The city had developed in more than fifteen hundred years from a heathen Germanic settlement to the capital of a dukedom in the Holy Roman Empire, where the secular duke was simul- taneously the Roman Catholic bishop. Eventually, after Napoleon had raged through Europe, the Congress of Vienna gave the prince bishopric to the king of Bavaria. And the Würzburgers have since been citizens of Bavaria in whatever form that state has existed by itself and within Germany. The city has a long history of stability. The Peasant Revolt of the fifteenth century affected it only on the outskirts. The Reformation did not touch it, as it had always been stoutly Catholic. The Thirty Years War rolled through it and there are no accounts of sufferings from the Great Plague. The Napoleonic Wars and the French invasions before had left no mark, although Napoleon stayed once at the bishop's palace, the "Residenz," and pronounced it the most beautiful vic- arage in Europe. The revolutions of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries left no visible marks, and even the Nazis could not change the town. Würzburg's rulers, its citizens, and time had formed and transformed the city, developing it over the centuries from a small town to a solid middle-class city of over 100,000 inhabitants. There had been no great political, social, racial, or religious problems. The city lived the life of an unobtrusive, self-supporting central European community, a pleasant and peaceful place. But disaster struck with catastrophic results on 16 March 1945 between 9:20 and 9:37 P.M., Central European Time.  To DESTROY A CITY 24 WÜRZBURG AS TARGET POSSIBLE REASONS FOR THE RAIDS How did it come to that? Why would such a city of small strate- gic value an