hief of staff committee minute to the War Cabinet, C.O.S. (42) 379 (O), of 3 November 1942, which became the blueprint for the strategic bombing war against Germany.16 In 1942 Lord Cherwell became a member of Churchill's cabinet as paymaster general. His political fortunes ebbed and rose with those of Churchill, as did the honors bestowed on him during and after the war. After World War II he was criti- cized for supporting Bomber Command too much at the cost of the army, navy, and RAF Coastal Command, which was fight- ing the U-boats. Lord Cherwell continued his scientific career after the war. He died on 3 July 1957. There is no doubt that Frederick A. Lindemann, Lord Cherwell, had a strong impact on the plan- ning and execution of the bombing campaign. In many docu- ments, briefs, and recommendations, his famous minute to Churchill forms the base. Another scientist and bomber theoretician was Sir Henry Tizard. His and Cherwell's paths crossed many times and not always peacefully. Tizard was born at Gillingham, Kent, on 23 August 1885. He graduated in chemistry from Oxford in 1908 and went to Professor Nernst's institute in Berlin for postgrad- uate studies. After one year in Berlin, Tizard returned to Oxford in 1909. At the outbreak of World War I he joined the Royal Flying Corps and became engaged in aeronautical research. In 1916 he was dispatched to France, to the headquarters of the RFC, to study the accuracy of bombing. To nobody's surprise, he stressed that first of all finding the target, and then hitting it, were the biggest problems of aerial bombardment. After the war Tizard continued scientific work at Farn- borough, the main base of the RAF. The RAF establishment particularly appreciated the fact that he was a pilot and hands- on scientist who had personally tried out many of his theories. He occupied various government and academic positions, and in 1935 Londonderry, the minister of air, appointed him chair- man of the Committee for Scientific Survey