ty of the marshalling yard. It was at the time two thousand cars per day. The largest German marshalling yard was at Hamm and had a capacity of ten thousand cars per day. When one transposes the above river transport turnover fig- ures into trains per day by using the information contained in  TO DESTROY A CITY 28 WÜRZBURG AS TARGET Alfred C. Mierzejewski's book one arrives at about ten trains of forty wagons each leaving the yard to transport the goods from the barges alone.10 Further statistics available at the Stadtarchiv for 1944 show that the public works of the city sold 28 million kilowatt-hours of electricity, 16 million cubic meters of gas, and 6 million cubic meters of water to its citizens and other consumers. Any researcher looking for strategic targets will find the above numbers significant and recommend that these installa- tions be destroyed. In themselves the numbers are impressive and towards the end of the war they undoubtedly represented a few targets still available for the bombers. Würzburg never made it on the original list of German cities to be destroyed. The cities recommended at various times at the beginning of the bomber offensive by such people as Churchill's scientific advisor, Lord Cherwell, had far more important industrial installations than Würzburg. The detail planning of the Allied bomber offensive started in late 1941. It was not until April 1942 that Würzburg cropped up in a list of secondary targets.11 The Ministry of Economic Warfare pre- pared what was named the "Bomber Baedeker," a reference to the well-known European travel guide. One has to assume the information was distributed and, as regards Würzburg, filed for possible future reference. The nearby town of Schweinfurt with its ball-bearing fac- tories suffered numerous raids and we saw and heard the armadas flying in and out of this target area. One U.S. bomber even crashed into Würzburg without killing anybody on the ground. But the first signs of change happened in m