e the Greeks out of Smyrna. He sent troops into British occupied Mesopotamia causing RAF bombing in response. Atatürk became the father of modern Turkey. Nobody dared to stand up to him and at times there was an undeclared state of war between Turkey and Great Britain. Nobody wanted war, cer- tainly not London and, therefore, repulsions of Atatürk's sal- lies into Iraq were treated as pacification campaigns of unruly natives. Atatürk succeeded in tweaking the Allies' noses and they did nothing about it. They suffered him silently. The question arises whether Hitler took a leaf out of Atatürk's book when he started to break the Versailles Treaty in 1933. The Allies signed a new treaty with Turkey at Lausanne on 24 July 1923. It annulled many of the acrimonious terms of the Sèvres Treaty. Above all it gave Turkey back control of the Dardanelles. It also squashed the plebiscite for Kurdistan. The other Châteaux Treaties were also detested. Millions of Hungarians became Romanian citizens, millions of Sudeten German-Austrians became Czechoslovak citizens, Ukrainians became Polish citizens, and 250,000 Austrians became Italian citizens. The Fourteen Points had foreseen that all ethnic groups should have the right to their own states. What came out of the Châteaux Treaties was the creation of states that included many unwilling citizens of foreign nationalities. That the honor, pride, and self-esteem of the defeated nations were not considered and intentionally trampled on could perhaps be understood at the time, but it hurt. It hurt the Germans as much in 1919 as the 1871 peace had hurt the  126 TO DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS French. It caused lingering resentment from Berlin to Ankara. The unilateral disarmament of the vanquished with no corre- sponding reduction in arms by the victors created a feeling of national insecurity against pressures from abroad and from within. The creation of the League of Nations without mem- bership of the vanquished peoples showe