. He and most other U.S. army and air force generals were opposed to the dropping of the atomic bombs. After the war and after the U.S. Air Force had become an independent service, equal in rank- ing to the army and the navy, just as General Mitchell had pro- posed many years before, he became the first chief of staff of the United States Air Force. Spaatz died in Washington, D.C., on 14 July 1974 and is buried in the cemetery of the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado. Almost as prominent a bomber practitioner as Spaatz ranks General Curtis LeMay. He was born in West Columbus, Ohio. on 15 November 1906. He obtained a bachelors degree in civil engineering from Ohio State University. While at the universi- ty he learned to fly by first joining the National Guard and then enlisting in the Army Air Corps. Next came the Air Corps Tactical School, and before long he was a permanent commis- sioned officer in the air corps. LeMay became known as an excellent navigator and is credited with the military and political feat of locating and fly- ing over the Italian oceanliner Rex seven hundred miles out in the Atlantic in 1938; just to show the rising Axis dictators what the U.S. Air Corps could do with their four-engine bombers. He also was the navigator of a B-17 that flew non-stop from the United States to Bogota, Columbia, a considerable achieve- ment at the time. In 1941, while the United States was still neutral, he was in the 34th Bomb Group, which located German submarines in the Atlantic.31 After the Eighth Army Air Force was established in Britain he was sent over to command the 305th Bomb Group. He flew many missions deep into Germany in the fol- lowing years, the most significant one being a successful raid on the Messerschmitt aircraft factories at Regensburg. As there were no fighter escorts as yet, the losses to the U.S. bombers were appalling. LeMay landed with a badly damaged plane in North Africa, as had been planned. LeMay is among the few b