t attacking 107,000 Würzburgers would cause, at that stage of the hostili- ties, a revolt against the Nazis? Würzburg might not have been destroyed had Harris followed the orders of 25 September 1944 to attack infrastructure targets. Since the few industrial and military installations were purposely not bombed, the attack on the residential areas was an area/morale raid. The decision to attack rested with High Wycombe. Political and economic considerations could not have entered the process. Bomber Command has justified the raids on East German cities such as Dresden, Magdeburg, Leipzig, and oth- ers as political and military support operations for the advanc- ing Russian armies. But Würzburg was too far away from that theater of war. The raid did not help the advance of the U.S. Army either.  332 To DESTROY A CITY CONCLUSION On the contrary, Kesselring, the German commander, had his troops fight one week in the Würzburg rubble. It was the longest battle for any German town including the battle of Berlin. There is little doubt that the troops would have been withdrawn earlier had the city been intact. Can one blame Harris for selecting Würzburg? The answer is no because, as is evident, the bombing campaign, its concept, and its execution pursued its own mysterious logic. The bomber commanders can prove that they followed orders as soldiers; the Target Committee can prove that it had instruc- tions from the chiefs of staff; the chiefs of staff cite guidance from the politicians of intermediate and high ranks all the way to Churchill and Roosevelt; and the politicians in turn hold up their hands and claim that they followed the recommendations of bomber commanders, scientific advisors, target committees, and chiefs of staff, who all promised a clean, quick, and efficient way to knock out the enemy. In short, one can blame them all as a group, but not individually. They can all hide behind each other's back. The subject of area attacks in World War II is so loaded with