nother German weapon. The front was about 120  114 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR I 115 kilometers (72 miles) away from Paris. The city could not be considered to be located near the fighting. From 23 March to 9 August 1918, the Germans performed a technical and military feat unsurpassed before and after. They shelled Paris from this distance of 120 kilometers. Whereas area bombing, as we shall see further on, can be interpreted as not being against the Conventions, the shelling of Paris, an open city outside the war zone, was definitely outlawed. By 1917 the losses of German aircraft bombarding French cities had become insupportable. But the clamour for attacking enemy civilians was still there The answer was a Krupp super gun. Even today its technical details are staggering:49 120 km 34 meters long (the barrel could only withstand 65 firings before it had to be replaced) 21 centimeters in diameter; weight was 1 ton it took three minutes to travel to Paris Range: Barrel: Shell: Trajectory: frequency of shots was 7 minutes Firing: The first shell was fired on 23 March 1918, for maximum psychological impact at the time of the German spring offen- sive. The first shot was a complete success, hitting the center of Paris somewhere on the Seine banks as planned. Consternation among French government, military, and the Parisians was enormous. The first three shells killed eighteen civilians and wounded forty-two. Results of firings were passed by wireless to German headquarters by specially placed agents in Paris. A total of 320 shells were fired into Paris, of which 180 fell into the center and 140 in the suburbs. Total tonnage of shells was 320 tons; a sizeable load of destruction when one com- pares it with the tonnage unloaded over London by the German airplanes of about ninety tons. One shell hitting Paris on Good Friday, 29 March 1918, killed eighty-eight worship- pers in the church of St. Gervais.50 French authorities asked the Germans through neutral chann