icularly deadly when bomber commanders had scheduled a second raid for an hour or two later. 279 Before World War II many countries initiated civil defense measures. The most extensive ones were taken in Britain and Germany. Other countries like France, Italy, and Japan did not spend much money to protect their citizens. As an example, the destruction of a part of Rotterdam by a small German bomber force was only possible because there was not enough fire- fighting equipment and no civil defense.17 In Germany, preparations for civil defense began shortly after World War I. The Versailles Treaty did not allow antiair- craft guns. There was no military defense, and protection of the citizens had to depend solely on civil defense. From January 1928 to September 1931 there were exercises in various German cities assuming bomb, incendiary, and gas attacks on industri- al installations. In December 1928 the ministry of the interior was made responsible for all civil defense. An aerial surveil- lance and warning system was established.18 Sirens were installed after trials of warning the population with red flares proved impractical.19 But serious efforts to create protection for the citizens from bombing did not start until 1933 after Hitler came to power and started rearming Germany. Göring, who had been appointed minister of aviation, also became responsible for civil defense. The Luftwaffe took over the warning system, which meant that the civil authorities depended on the military. In 1935 the Civil Defense Law was promulgated which made every person, even foreigners, living in Germany subject to the implementation and ordinances of civil defense. A massive number of orders were issued: The local police were put in charge of all measures. Fire brigades were modernized and motorized. A technical emergency service was created, complete with heavy equipment to effect rescues and repairs. In every house a defense group was formed from the inhabitants. These people had to b