-20 skirmishes required 29,000 combat troops and 34,000 auxiliaries to supply them. Trenchard, who had only twenty-five squadrons, stationed nineteen of them permanently across the empire. Eight were in India, three in Mesopotamia, seven in Egypt, and one distrib- uted to naval stations such as Malta.24 He drew a masterpiece of political and strategic distribution of limited resources. By 1920 another sore had opened on the British Empire's body. The Mad Mullah of Somalia, who during the Great War had challenged British rule, made trouble again. The cost of pacifying the region was estimated in the millions of pounds sterling and the dispatch of two divisions. A single RAF squadron of eight planes was finally flown from Egypt and routed the mullah by attacking his strongholds and villages. The cost was £77,000, a real bargain.25 The mullah fled to Ethiopia and was killed there. From 1920 until the 1930s a further trouble spot for the British Empire was the Middle East. The Sèvres Treaty had mandated Mesopotamia, Palestine, Transjordan, and Yemen to the United Kingdom. What it really meant was that the indige- nous peoples of these regions exchanged their Turkish masters for British masters. These people had cooperated with Lawrence of Arabia and with the French to defeat the Turks. Freedom from foreign rule and independence had been prom- ised. They may have heard of Wilson's Fourteen Points, but they were sacrificed to big power imperial politics at the Paris Conference. Independence was like a fata morgana in the hot desert air. For Britain the mandates were a consolidation of the route to India, the crown jewel. No more upstart continental power would build a railway to the Persian Gulf and thereby control the land access to India. In London, Churchill had changed portfolio and become minister of colonies. In March 1921 he convened a conference in Cairo to find a solution to the  138 To DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS rising unrest in the mandated areas. Th