rom the Entente to threaten, respectively, Chinese and U.S. interests in the Far East, and British and French interests in the Mediterranean. The conference began at Geneva on 2 February 1932. On 9 February the German chancellor Brüning pointed out in a lengthy address that Germany felt itself endangered. Especially threatening appeared the state of Czechoslovakia, with airfields for bombers to reach any point in Germany. Added to this was the fact that Soviet bombers could be brought to the Czech airfields in short order. It was one year before Hitler came to power and German external politics were still of the type described as "hat in hand." The German gov- ernment wanted assurance that there would be no threat from that massive military ring around its territory. Before long, the disarmament conference agreed that gas warfare, bombing, and limitations on arms needed to be codi- fied, and proposals were tabled for discussion. Of particular interest were proposals to regulate bombing. The preparatory committee had upheld the existence of air forces. This seemed an understandable point, taking into consideration the Trenchard Doctrine, Douhetism, and the successes of colonial pacification. The Germans objected. In February they proposed a complete prohibition and destruction of air forces, and as a consequence that dropping bombs from aircraft be outlawed.14 Aside from the military point of view, it also made economic sense for the Germans. They had no air force and if the terms of the conference would allow them to have one it would cost money. The French proposal of February 1932 called for an inter- national peace force and the complete abolishment of strategic bombardment. Tactical air warfare including tactical bombing was to be allowed. The British proposal of 7 July 1932 also sug-  134 To DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS gested the elimination of aerial bombing.15 The accounts of what exactly was proposed, discussed, and rejected vary between historians