onal experience and detailed knowledge of one of the worst examples of area bombing. These thoughts went through my mind and my attitude toward the subject changed. In the more than fifty years since it happened I have come to the conclusion that what is needed is an objective assessment. I have long given up the idea of cas- tigating the perpetrators of bombing on both sides of the two world wars. Or condemning the bomber crews or the civilians who mistreated and often even killed downed flyers. It was war time. People were guided by patriotic fervor and were convinced that they were right, the enemy down to the last cit- izen wrong, and that even God was on their side. The bomber leaders were soldiers and all acted in the best tradition of their profession. A soldier's duty is to protect his country and defeat the enemy. There are international agree-  12 To DESTROY A CITY INTRODUCTION ments and there is a code of ethics, all of which define the con- duct of war. Yet war is not merely a matter of fighting. As Clausewitz, the German military philosopher wrote in the early nineteenth century, war is the continuation of diplomacy by other means. In other words, there are political implications for war. War costs money and any responsible soldier leader will attempt to defeat his enemy at the least possible cost. I came to the conclusion that, if at all possible, I would see both sides of the bombing war-the victor's and the van- quished's. The fact that World War I ended over eighty years ago and World War II over fifty years ago, had to influence my writing. There was no point in regurgitating old hatreds and misunderstandings that mankind cannot possibly be proud of. What happened was bad. Both sides committed acts which his- tory has since condemned. The bombing wars from 1914 to 1945 are now history. Terrible history at that. Whether histori- ans prove that the bombing, killing, maiming, and destructions did not win the wars, or whether respected military leaders