an targets as had been planned for years under the Trenchard Doctrine. Before the fateful date of 15 May, during the night of 11-12 May, thirty-seven Hampden and Whitley medium bombers had made the first raid on a German city. The aims were rail and road communication cen- ters.35 Four civilians were killed including, unfortunately and ironically, an English woman living in the attacked town of Mönchen-Gladbach. Why the Rotterdam raid caused the British Cabinet to implement reprisals and not the much heavier Warsaw raid, is open for speculation. Warsaw suffered from 572 tons of bombs, whereas Rotterdam received only 97 tons. One reason may have been that propaganda, the fourth service in modern war- fare, grabbed the Rotterdam raid and exaggerated it beyond its actual dimensions. British public opinion wanted retaliation. The international press called it the first terror raid of the war. Does that exculpate the Luftwaffe for the Warsaw raid? In either event, the raids were tactical in support of ground oper- ations. They were not planned strategic terror raids. But by any interpretation, they caused heavy civilian losses and because of that left the Luftwaffe with a bad reputation. Luftwaffe senior and junior personnel did not approve of terror raids, but after Rotterdam the stigma stuck to them.36 The blitzkrieg in the West, the third after Poland and Norway, took its course. Belgium, Luxembourg, and Holland were overrun in short order and after a daring dash through the Ardennes by German panzers, the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) was encircled at Dunkirk. There are conflicting interpretations of what happened next. One line is that Göring persuaded Hitler to let the Luftwaffe pound the British troops on the beaches into surrender. The other line states that Hitler wanted the British troops to escape because he still hoped for a peace settlement with London. The facts are that the German army halted its attack, that the Luftwaffe did considerable damage to th