II he made many presentations in public, the House of Lords, and the Cabinet exhorting political and military lead- ers to have bombers pound Germany with civilian morale a primary target. Another bomber theoretician was U.S. General William Mitchell. In World War I he had been commander of the U.S. Army Air Services in France. He had befriended Trenchard and was impressed by the latter's theories and successes in bomb- ing cities in western Germany. Mitchell was born in Nice, France, on 29 December 1879. He saw action in the Spanish-American War in Cuba and the Philippines. At the end of World War I, Mitchell was made a brigadier general. Upon his return to the United States in 1919 he stayed with the army and became an advocate of air power based on his campaign experiences.10 He proposed an inde- pendent air service and suggested the building of aircraft car- riers for the navy.  58 To DESTROY A CITY THE ROAD TO AREA BOMBING Mitchell, as compared with his contemporary air warfare theoreticians, Douhet and Trenchard, did not expound the value of the bomber as a means of attacking enemy popula- tions. At the time this would have been against America's sense of honor. The problem for him was that the Europeans and the Japanese recognized the importance of air power-and bombing-whereas the United States did not. The U.S. army and navy establishments, as in Britain, France, and Italy, lobbied against any further development of air power. The struggle became particularly acrimonious when General Mitchell declared that battleships were obsolete and that the coastal defenses of the continental United States should be taken over by an independent air force. It would be cheaper and more effective. The battle was fought in Congress and in the media. Eventually it was agreed that the Army Air Force should prove its point by sinking some ex-German navy ships which had come into the possession of the United States as a result of the Treaty of Versailles. The tests were conclus