d States. What had eluded them in Europe would work in Asia. As Portal in the UK in November 1942, they had made an estimate of Japanese to be killed-584,000.269 Members of the Committee of Operations Analysts, which prepared the report for Arnold, had no comment on the humanitarian aspect of the estimated fatalities. They considered them as incidental as Portal had. The USAAF would prove its mettle and its generals would be heroes by winning the war, albeit at the cost of 584,000 civil- ians. What the supreme commander of the U.S. Armed Forces thought of this plan, in light of the fact that not one Japanese bomber had ever purposely attacked U.S. civilians and in light of his telegrams to the leaders of the warring nations in early September 1939, is not documented. Not all USAAF generals were in agreement with firebomb- ing. General Haywood S. Hansell, co-author of the AWPD-1, commander of XXI Bomber Command operating out of the recently established bases on the Marianas, wanted to destroy the Japanese aircraft industry. This required precision bomb- ing, which was extremely difficult under the meteorological conditions over the Japanese islands. It required higher fuel use and smaller bomb loads than the experts had expected. There were further technical problems that caused the opera- tions directed by Hansell to be a limited success. Arnold replaced him with General Curtis E. LeMay on 20 January 1945. And that is when the firebombing of Japan really started. Hansell was to become LeMay's second in command, but refused the position. 270 Hansell's replacement looks like the scenario of Peirse's replacement as commander of RAF Bomber Command in February 1942 with Harris. Neither Hansell nor Peirse had been given the means to conduct air wars like their successors. And, both successors were of the singleminded obsession that they would go into the halls of history as the deciding military leaders in ending World War II. By November 1944 U.S. forces conquered the Ma