nks to her and the staffs of all the archives. In collecting information I enjoyed the help of relatives and friends as my daughter Eva, my brother Dieter, and Messrs. Klaus Voss and Bruno Walther and Mrs. Helmes and Mrs. Siebert. PREFACE Once I had produced the manuscript I had friends review and edit it. I am grateful for the improvments made by Messrs. George Sharp, William McCorquodale, Philip Pinkus, and Patrick Taylor. Mr. Leon Krawczyk helped me in recording the illustra- tions. At times it was hard work but the help of all the people mentioned above made it possible. - Hermann Knell October 2002 M any books have been written about aerial warfare since its start in World War I, with authors who are historians, academicians, commanding officers, and airmen. The subjects cover fighter combat, reconnaissance, tactical and strategic bombing. There are accounts of personal experiences, biogra- phies of flying aces, complete histories of campaigns, and in many books an evaluation of the circumstances of the fighting from the technical and historical points of view. The books published on strategic bombing cover its questionable success, its use by the military, and its appalling consequences for civil- ians. Up to World War II the sufferings of civilians under this method of warfare were acute, but by comparison with what happened after September 1939, relatively small. It was in World War II that bomber raids were flown in ever-increasing numbers causing the deaths of more than 1 million civilians who could not defend themselves. International literature has many books on the bombings of Hiroshima and Dresden, generally considered the most destructive that ever happened. Little has been written about Nagasaki, or the worst raid in terms of human losses, the Tokyo raid of 9-10 March 1945. Many people think that Dresden and Hamburg were the most destroyed cities in Germany. But the British and U.S. bombing surveys prepared after World War II tell us that Wesel, a ci