ey. As he points out in his book, the survey proved that the bombing offensive was not the determining factor in the defeat of Germany. On the contrary, Lord Zuckerman shows that if his recommendations to raid infrastructure targets such as transport and oil had been followed from the beginning, the war would have been short- er and above all less costly in lives and materials. The report was not appreciated by the Air Ministry and, to this date has never been published. A copy is filed at the PRO.21 After the war, Lord Zuckerman returned to his academic career and he died in March 1993. He was a man whose theo- ries were correct, but their acceptance came only after other theories had painfully been proven wrong.  To DESTROY A CITY 66 THE ROAD TO AREA BOMBING So far in this chapter we have dealt solely with Allied bomber theoreticians, and mostly only with British and American ones. Going through the relevant literature one finds no French, Russian, Japanese, or other nationals who have produced thoughts and theories on the subject. Even in Germany, the country that first practiced strategic bombing on a large scale in World War I, we cannot find a theoretician who advocated area bombing. Nevertheless, probably the first man to ever propose bombing civilians was German Rear Admiral Paul Behncke, who as early as 1914 suggested to his superior, Admiral von Pohl, commander-in-chief of the Imperial Navy, that German Navy Zeppelins attack England to cause panic and confusion among its citizens.22 It was to be a military operation without any theoretical background. Pohl and the Kaiser rejected the idea, but not for long. In World War II, Reichsmarshal Hermann Göring, the supreme commander of the Luftwaffe, approached bombing from an empirical background. He had been a fighter pilot in World War I, with twenty kills to his credit. Ernst Udet, the quartermaster general of the Luftwaffe, had also been a fighter pilot in World War I. He is credited with developing the dive-