's thoughts were ele- 55 vated to gospel and referred to in every budget request for air force funds and in manuals of operations. If one condenses General Douhet's work one must recog- nize that he had a message, and undoubtedly at the time of his writings, a vision. Based on World War I experiences and tech- nical developments shortly thereafter, the Douhet theorem states: Any military power of consequence needs an independent air force. The mainstay of this air force must be its bomber fleet. When war breaks out, the air force must gain air superiority not only over its own, but also over the enemy's air space. As soon as that is attained, the bomber force must ruthlessly attack the enemy hinterland. Maximum damage must be done in the shortest possible time. The attacks must not only be directed against strategic tar- gets but also against enemy population morale. Since bombing is inaccurate and, most important targets are in populated areas, the bombing effort must be massive. Bombing of populated areas with high explosives, incendi- ary bombs and gas bombs will cause popular uprisings to force the enemy government to sue for peace. A concentration of attacks in time and quantities of bombs will bring about an early victory. Aerial bombs are cheap and will reduce the cost of the war effort. Analyzing and extrapolating these statements makes one shudder. Certainly they were the considered consequences of experiences gained in World War I. But to elevate them to a proposed policy is, to say the least, against the spirit of the Hague and Geneva Conventions. As it turned out, Italy, Douhet's country, ignored his teachings. In World War II, Douhet's theories came into use, but that war was not won because massive bombing of enemy centers caused uprisings. And, to the credit of all participants, none of the bomber fleets dropped gas.  56 To DESTROY A CITY THE ROAD TO AREA BOMBING 57 Douhet died in 1930. He did not live to see his native coun- try shadowed by the wings