beginning of the war. Production, transport, and storage of fuel was a problem for the German air force.58 By the end of 1940 Germany had cap- tured another 200,000 tons of aviation fuel in the countries of Western Europe. There were now stores of 600,000 tons that were widely scattered and could not easily be transferred from one theater of operation to the other. A concentrated and con- tinual attack on German oil would have been a knockout blow at the beginning of the war. It was not until late 1944 that this was realized and even then Bomber Harris still thought that area raids were the way to bring Germany down. Bomber Command continued its raids on many cities, which annoyed the German leaders including Göring and Hitler. On 4 September 1940 the latter exploded in a speech to his rubber stamp parliament in Berlin. He screamed that Germany would escalate the bombing war for every ton dropped over its territory and that "wir werden ihre Städte aus- radieren" ("we shall erase their cities"). I will never forget his hysterical emphasis of the word "ausradieren." On that count, two years later, we wer were wondering whether the British did not have the better eraser. During the battle of Britain, Hitler had given strict orders that London was not to be bombed. Now that order was rescinded and there occurred another step forward in the bombing war. Some historians claim this was exactly what Churchill had wanted and intended with the inaccurate bomb- ing of German cities, because the publicity would draw the United States into war.59  TO DESTROY A CITY 188 BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II The RAF bombings from 11 May 1940 onward were always considered deliberate acts of terror by the German govern- ment. Before the war the RAF had boasted that it could inflict damage to selected targets. When it missed them it seemed log- ical that it was done with a purpose. German propaganda pub- lished a White Paper on RAF raids, which thoughtfully avoid- ed references to civilian losses,