confirmed the Trenchard and Douhet doctrines. The RAF, that new and untraditional third service, had proven its usefulness. Admiral Beatty, its most vociferous opponent, had to concede defeat. Trenchard was winning not only because he saved the country millions of pounds but also because he could persuade the government that in a future war defense of the home isles and victory was no longer the pre- rogative of the navy. In numerous meetings and papers he hammered out "the Trenchard Doctrine." When it was applied at full force in World War II it showed that bombing defense- less tribesmen was one thing, bombing an enemy nation of equal technical sophistication was very costly and did not bring fast victory. But in the twenties, Trenchard and the RAF survived. One of the many reasons was that the French air force, at the time the mightiest and best equipped, was consid- ered a threat to Britain. If a superior French air force bombed the British people hard enough they would force the govern- ment's hand.32 British government policy supported the exis-  140 TO DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS 141 tence of the RAF and particularly bombing as an inexpensive method of policing their empire. Hence, the British stance at the Geneva disarmament conference. The bomber could not be outlawed and the British public was warned to be prepared for bombers coming over the island in the event of war. Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin went as far as to say in a speech in the House of Commons on 10 November 1932 that "the bomber will always get through."33 One wonders what the victims of the Luftwaffe Blitz of 1940-41 thought of that statement. If there had been an international agreement to limit bombing, many of Baldwin's countrymen might not have been killed by German bombs. But the British attitude after World War I was that air attacks outside the battle zone could not be prohibited.34 The Spaniards also dropped explosives on insurgents of the Rif Rebellion in the early 1920s.