East was recognised as the future for Germans. August Thyssen, the German steel magnate, had advocated to the German government in September 1914 that areas as far away as the Crimea and the Caucasus be annexed because they had manganese and other valuable ores. Ukraine is known for its agricultural riches and its coal deposits. Ludendorff, the  196 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 197 German chief of staff, saw these areas as settlement colonies for Germans in 1918.83 Hitler's government seemed to be programmed from the beginning to strike out east. He should have considered that Karl XII of Sweden and Napoleon I had marched in that direc- tion before with disastrous results. On the other hand, he may have looked at the conquest of the American West as an exam. ple of how a nation secured Lebensraum. France, from Louis XIV to Napoleon I, had tried the same by invading Germany. Goebbels said it was a preventive strike. Postwar historians speak of a brutal surprise attack on the USSR. But was it real- ly? More and more historians using now available Russian documents maintain that it was really a question of weeks before the USSR would have struck out west. It appears as if it was again a situation as in Norway in April 1940, when German troops arrived before the Royal Marines. Victor Suworow, a Russian army officer who defected to the West before Communism collapsed, gives many detailed examples and lists orders issued by Stalin and his top staff which confirm this.84 The German historian Werner Maser refers to further documents prepared by Russian officers such as Zhukov and Wassilevski.85 The German strength was estimated at one hun- dred army divisions. The USSR was deploying 259 army divi- sions at its western borders leaving 45 divisions to defend its other frontiers. The Red Army had about 5 million soldiers fac- ing 3.5 million German and allied troops. The facts are that the Soviet Union was concentrating its military forces in the west from 1940 on