k steps to build up military power. The Prussian/German armies that had defeated France in 1871 were already well-organized units. A German navy did not yet exist. With the founding of the Second Reich the federal government in Berlin had de facto control over the armies of the constituent states and absolute control of the rising German navy. An incident that annoyed Germany's European neighbors was the construction of the Kiel Canal. From 1895 onward this civil engineering feat connected the Baltic to the North Sea cut- ting about seven hundred miles of voyage around Denmark. It dashed British military planning, which in case of war with 97 Germany was based on an expeditionary force sailing past Copenhagen and landing north of Berlin. Any German ship could now be quickly shuttled between the North and Baltic Seas. Next came the First Naval Law of 28 March 1898. Tirpitz, the Kaiser's grand admiral, had convinced his superiors, the Reichstag, and the industrialists that Germany needed a strong navy to protect its overseas interests and assets. This bill was followed by a second one on 8 March 1912, which authorized an even greater German navy. It was to be at full strength in 1920 and second to none on the globe to guarantee Germany's position. These bills were the death knell to any potential understanding between Britain and Germany. The United Kingdom felt threatened. Regarding the German army, the situation was aggravated by the Reich deciding to maintain a standing army of consid- erable strength. This not being enough, the German chief of staff, Graf Helmut von Moltke, had the Reichstag pass the German Army and Finance Bill on 30 June 1913. It provided for an army of almost 900,000 men-in peacetime. The cost was to be one billion marks just to establish it. Aside from the affront to neighboring states, when one looks at the cost of this army one must question the sanity of its leaders. Germany had about 67 million people at that time. This meant that 1.4 perc