us about one hundred meters away. We both hit the ground, opened our mouths to compensate for the blast and had a few pieces of earth come down on us. Everywhere people were fleeing from the city, there were fires even in the outskirts and an unbelievable roar of wind. We had heard of the firestorms in Hamburg and we knew we were in for something similar. Approaching the city became impossible so we climbed up the western hills. Over the city there was a pall of smoke whipped by the firestorm. The whole town was on fire. Later we found our way down toward the river and crossed over one of the bridges. As we were walking over the bridge the firestorm hit us and we had trouble staying on our feet. 41 After the bridge we entered the Ringpark. The inner city of Würzburg is surrounded by this park. Until 1871 medieval walls and moats had been there. They were leveled and a beau- tiful park created in their place. For us and thousands of peo- ple this park meant refuge. The inner core of Würzburg had become a cauldron of fire. The roar of the conflagration was deafening and the smoke suffocating. When we arrived at the place where we wanted to leave the park and penetrate into the city to our flat we were driven back by a wall of flames, heat, and smoke. We tried another street further on with the same result. There we met one of our neighbor families. They informed us that when they left the building it was complete- ly in flames. They had tried to fight the incendiary bombs and the fires they had created but they had to flee because the house was about to collapse and they would have been killed. Now we knew that our home was gone and with it all that was in it. We did not even try to reach the businesses, or what was left of them before this raid, because they were located well inside the city. There was no hope of getting there. People who escaped from there were lucky. Many suffocated in the smoke, were hit by falling debris, or worse, never escaped their shel- ters.