en the two of them in the Far East. After all the posturing of the Japanese army in eastern China, the Soviets established a bomber force in Eastern Siberia that was ready to attack Tokyo if necessary. In July 1938, Japan and the USSR fought each other at Lake Khasan about eighty miles southwest of Vladivostok. From June to September 1939 a bor- der dispute broke out at the Khalkin River, a tributary of the Amur. In the first instance the opposing forces were little armies of division strength, whereas in the second instance the fighting became more serious with about five hundred planes involved on both sides.6 There are no records of bombing civil- ians. The Japanese Army Air Force was thoroughly trounced by the Red Air Force, and, on the ground, General Zhukov, of 1945 Berlin conquest fame, made his name in Soviet military annals by routing the Japanese army. Both countries main- tained diplomatic relations during the time of fighting and the desire to avoid a full state of war eventually resulted in a USSR/Japanese non-aggression pact signed in April 1941. Undoubtedly Stalin was looking west for a coming dispute with Hitler's Germany; the Ribbentrop Pact of August 1939 notwithstanding. Stalin did not waste time implementing the dishonorable secret annex to the Ribbentrop Pact, which allowed the USSR to occupy eastern Poland and the three Baltic States of Estonia, Lithuania, and Latvia. When Finland resisted Russian actions, the USSR declared war on it. The world, but above all Germany, had deserted these four countries, governments, and people who had formed a bulwark against the expansion of Bolshevism. The Winter War, as history has been calling it, lasted from 1 December 1939 to 13 March 1940. Finnish forces fought a heroic and strategically superior battle, but in the end it was the masses of the Soviet men and materials which forced Finland to sue for peace. It lost large tracts of land and nobody had come to its help. British planning under Churchill, then