governor of Libya in 1933, and after the "pacification" had been completed, Italian colonists came to settle. Ethiopia, which neighbored the Italian colonies of Eritrea and Somalia at the Horn of Africa, became the next target of Mussolini's expansion. It had been invaded by Italy in 1895 but the aggressors had been repulsed in the battle of Aduwa. A border clash was engineered in December 1934, and by October 1935 the Italian army and air force had brought enough men and equipment through the Suez Canal to com- mence an invasion. Whether it was in the interest of the share- holders of the Suez Canal Company to let these forces pass is a moot point. The League tried to stop the conflict but failed. Similar presentations by the British and French governments failed. Sanctions were agreed upon but not enforced. Nobody wanted to be too hard on the Italians. There was also anxiety that the Regia Aeronautica would bomb London if it came to an open conflict.38 Mussolini, like Hitler a few years later, had succeeded in bluffing the international establishment about the strength of his air force. There had been the impressive long- range mass flights of bombers with refueling stops under the command of Italo Balbo from Rome to Chicago and Rome to Rio de Janeiro.39 But there certainly were no planes to reach London and return without refueling. By May 1936, Ethiopia was firmly in Italian hands. The role of the Regia Aeronautica has been described as purely tactical but one must question that when one learns that among the 320 aircraft employed, a good portion were state-of-the-art bombers such as the Caproni 101, Ca 133, and Savoia SM81. These multi-engine bombers dropped mustard gas on helpless Ethiopian troops and towns, despite the June 1925 Geneva Protocol that out- lawed the use of poison gas, and of which Italy was a signato- ry.40 The international press reported that the RA attacked many hospitals; but that kind of news was to be expected. The guns were barely silent