, not even in the Far East, he came under neverending criticism, which to this date has not ended. He was not honored as were other great commanders by the Labor government. His biographer, Saward, blames the influence of John Strachey, under secretary of state for air in the Atlee government. Strachey had a background of Nazi and Communist affiliations before the war. Harris considered him a security risk and effected his removal from the Directorate of Bomber Operations.24 Messenger, in his book Bomber Harris, says that the air marshal received all the honors he deserved.25  80 To DESTROY A CITY THE BOMBER PRACTITIONERS He was raised from Commander of the Order of Bath (KCB) to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of Bath (GCB) in June 1945. On 1 January 1946 he was promoted to marshal of the Royal Air Force, a promotion that was normally reserved for officers who had been chief of air staff. In January 1952 he was made a baronet. However, the most interesting point in the controversy is his reported opinion that if the Germans had won the war, he would have been indicted for war crimes.26 After the war and ever since, nobody in Germany has officially called him a war criminal. But nobody was enchanted when in May 1992 a stat- ue of him was unveiled in the center of London. What made that event even more difficult to understand was that the House of Windsor was at the head of the unveiling ceremony with Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother pulling the cord on the Union Jack. Why Lady Thatcher, the ex-prime minister, attended is also a question. One can understand that the veterans wanted recognition for their leader and, thereby for their heroism and sufferings in war and the defamation afterward. But a plaque inside the Church of St. Clement Danes, instead of a monument in front of it, would have been, so many years after the campaign, a fitting honor for all con- cerned. The statue is exposed, as any outside monument, to graffiti not only from humans but als