er Italy. Japanese military defenses were equally lacking. Most of the army and navy air forces's fighters were engaged at the perimeter of Japanese military operations. It almost appears that neither service saw its duty to be to defend the home islands. What fighters there were stationed at home could not fly high enough to engage the B-29s. Similarly, most Japanese flak could not reach the operating height of the B-29 bombers. South of Japan there were few locations available for early warning radar installations. Iwo Jima and the Bonin Islands were the only ones, but were lost during the USAAF bombing campaign. Coordination between radar operations and mili- tary and civil defense was poor. When the XXI USAAF Bomber Command raids began in late 1944, Japan had only five hun- dred dayfighters and about fifty nightfighters to defend the home islands.12 As the antiaircraft guns became more sophisticated, the bombers were forced to unload from greater heights. Their accuracy in hitting targets decreased, and surrounding areas were subjected to damage. It was a fact the bomber generals 277 and marshals did not and could not admit. No bombsight could compensate for all the meteorological conditions a bomb had to descend through. Conversely, a flak shell had the same problems, although the gunners knew their meteorological conditions. That meant that bombing and defense against it became more scattered, obviating some of the praised technical advances. Over German territory in Wo World War I, fighters and antiair- craft guns brought down about equal numbers of Allied planes, thirty-six by flak and thirty-five by fighters.13 Of the thousands of Allied planes destroyed over Germany in World War II, no statistics could be found listing losses through fight- ers or flak. When the government of the USSR requested the opening of a second front in Western Europe from 1942 onward to relieve the pressure of the Wehrmacht on Russian territory, the Western Allies argued that the b