t to Article 25 of the Rules of Land Warfare; such was the opinion of the air ministry. An opinion on that is proffered by Eberhard Spetzler, who during the war was a legal staff officer of the Luftwaffe. After the war, as a professor of law at the University of Göttingen, he pointed out:6 Since there are separate rules for land and sea warfare and none was ever signed for aerial warfare, the Rules for Land Warfare cannot be applied to strategic bombing. Article 25 clearly states that it is meant to protect civilians 327 during the physical conquest of their land. Bombers do not occupy enemy territory, they only destroy it. For a city to be protected by Article 25 it must not have any defenses. Fighters attacking bombers over their target must be considered defending the city. As a legal expert, Spetzler points out that even if and when area bombing could be judged as contrary to international law, it became common international law, starting with World War I and raising few eyebrows in World War II, because all bel- ligerents practiced it. Had the Germans won the war, Arthur Harris would have expected to be tried as a war criminal. His countryman Spaight states that the bomber offensive could not be arraigned under international law.7 Why then did Spaight write several books in defense of it? Area bombing could have been forbidden by the League of Nations when civilians were bombed by the RAF and the French Air Force in Mesopotamia and Syria between the World Wars. These areas were de jure under the government of the League. A resolution by the League rejecting the British "peo- ple against people" interpretation of warfare in League territo- ries would have made the Trenchard Doctrine unworkable. Civilians were unprotected by international agreements until the end of World War II. In 1948 a Red Cross Convention gave protection to civilians. However, the arms race that start- ed at that time, with intercontinental ballistic missiles still in place today, makes a mo