uncomfortable shelter was a steel box, 61/2 x 4 x 2 feet high placed in the basement, if there was one, or the ground floor. It was called the Morrison Shelter after the Minister of Home Security. One crawled into it when danger loomed, but against the blast of a heavy bomb it offered no protection. People living in apartments found shelter in basements if there was one, or on the ground floor with no protection  284 TO DESTROY A CITY MILITARY AND CIVIL DEFENSE against a direct hit. The most secure shelters were the stations of the London Underground. Heroic accounts of cooperation, patriotic spirit, and supposed comfort have been published. Fewer sources speak of, first of all, the struggle to have the City of London permit the platforms of the stations as nightly quar- ters and, secondly, about the conditions. The trains were oper- ating as usual, the sanitary facilities were the same, and the air was stale. But it was a safe place, and many people owed their lives to going "underground" at night during the Blitz. Later in the war, the governme ment constructed school shel- ters that could house hundreds of citizens. If one was lucky there was one nearby. Only 4 percent of Londoners could take advantage of the underground platforms; up to 9 percent could use other public shelters; and 27 percent used their Anderson Shelters. This left 60 percent on their own, downstairs or up.30 As the war continued and the Luftwaffe raids decreased, the need for civil defense slackened. Yet the government was still active in providing improved protection. As an example, many bombed houses east and around St. Paul's Cathedral were razed, their basements exposed, lined with concrete, and used as water reservoirs for future fire raids. Between 1939 and 1946, Britain spent over £1 billion on civil defense, a sizeable sum.31 As in Germany, Britain had a program for evacuating chil- dren from threatened areas. Children were sent to Canada and the United States. Parents must have suffer