perrle from Paris, and Luftflotte 5, commanded by General Stumpf in Kristianstad, Norway, were let loose on Britain. In total these air fleets had about 770 serviceable machines between them.63 Depending on the distance to the target, these twin-engine bombers could carry a bombload of about two tons maximum. 189 Before Eagle Day the Luftwaffe had restricted itself to attack shipping targets in an effort to cooperate with the U-boats in the blockade of the British Isles. After Eagle Day it was RAF airfields, radar stations, and transport. But now the Luftwaffe let loose with a vengeance. We were told it was retaliation and nothing else that brought about the increased bombing of still supposedly strategic targets. The RAF raids, maiming and hurting Germans and their possessions, would now be legally responded to with equal killing, maiming, and destruction. The Conventions allowed for that. To bring this situation into perspective, one has to compare the respective operations. Bomber Command was lucky to be able to dispatch about 150 bombers on the long distance raids into German territory. Berlin in particular was a long way from the bomber bases. The distance to Italy was even longer. The German air fleets on the other hand were based just across the Channel and many squadrons could fly two sorties daily. German raids on British targets from Eagle Day onward could muster as many as 1,700 sorties per day, fighters and bombers. The raids on London started on 7 September 1940. Three hun- dred bombers of Sperrle's command appeared over the city in the early evening. The intended targets were the dock lands which were undoubtedly hit, but the terror aspect becomes apparent when one learns that 30 percent of the bombs were delayed action, with up to fourteen hours lapse before they would explode.64 From 7 September until 13 November, London was bombarded every night. A total of 13,000 tons of high explosives and 12,000 incendiary canisters were dropped. Other cities wer