ny renowned historians presented papers on "The Conduct of the Air War in the Second World War." Strategic and area bombing were extensively covered. The head of the institute expressed hope that the publication of the proceed- ings would contribute to an objective analysis.3 One wonders whether it could, because many prominent authors/historians were not present. There is a psychological need to forget and a moral obliga- tion to remember. There is the human desire to forgive and the ethical necessity to warn of a possible repeat of the disaster. There is above all still great public interest in the subject with the hope that historians can arrive at a verdict. Either condemn it and have the courage to pronounce the perpetrators of it, politicians and military, guilty, or accept it as a fact of modern war, inhuman but unavoidable. The human suffering of both the bombed on the ground 3 and the bombers in the air must be brought into focus. Why could it all happen and why was it implemented beyond all humane considerations? Why was Würzburg, a city in south- ern Germany, destroyed beyond any military necessity and, above all, why is so little known about it? Based on personal experience and considerable research this book tries in small measure to fill the gap in this literature. It is meant to contribute to a better understanding of strategic and area bombing. It is meant to honor the victims, both the civilians and the air crews, who lost their lives. It is meant to fulfill the same purpose as Hoito Edoin's book The Night Tokyo Burned which offers an understanding of the worst air raid and is dedicated to the U.S. airmen and Tokyo citizens killed.4  INTRODUCTION In Europe the Second World War had come to an end. It was 1May 1945 and for any German citizen living in the devastat- ed, conquered, and politically extinct Third Reich the future looked bleak. Very bleak indeed. The war had ended with a crescendo of fighting, killing, destruction, and the arrival of the v