he stream of refugees expelled from the eastern states of Germany. We had a place to stay, inadequate as it would have been under normal condi- tions, we had some clothes, and we had put some food sup- plies into the "Gartenhaus." We each had a bicycle and even more important we had a small hand-pulled cart. All of our immediate family had survived the war and the bombing. Compared with others-Würzburgers, Germans, and Euro- peans in neighboring countries-we had not been uprooted, we knew where we belonged, and our safety net was still there. But the place had to be rebuilt, which at the time seemed a hopeless task. There were no radio and newspapers. We had no water and no electricity. That Roosevelt had died, that the German Wehrmacht had unconditionally surrendered, and that the war in Japan was still going on, we found out only by word of mouth. The first few weeks after the raid of 16 March 1945 were occupied with extracting from the basement of our flat and the basements of destroyed houses of friends or the still-intact houses of friends in the suburbs, the goods and chattels we had stored there. Not all the things we had relocated survived the raids. But one was glad to dig out any piece and put it on that most valuable handcart to pull it the many kilometers to our abode. Then there was the drudgery of securing the daily necessities. The water came from a well two kilometers away, where one had to line up about an hour for a pailful. Food was hard to come by and when there was some, many people had no money to pay for it. There were no pay envelopes, as all commerce and industry were disrupted, and there were no banks from which to withdraw savings. But after a few months the tap outside the shack delivered some murky water, the power returned for a few hours a day, some food became available, and life in general improved mar- ginally. Over the precious small radio we had saved we could now hear our new master's voice and after many more months there appear