se Bomber Command had been giving misleading instructions to German fighters with transmissions from Britain, Harris had expected it and had German-speaking ladies on the air immediately. When the Germans launched their V-weapon campaigns the United Kingdom was mostly unprepared. The relatively slow V-1 could be brought down by fighters and flak. But against the V-2 there was no defense. Britain and Germany had the most sophisticated military defenses of all belligerents in both world wars. During World War II the Luftwaffe made 2.6 million fighter sorties against the  276 TO DESTROY A CITY MILITARY AND CIVIL DEFENSE 1.44 million day and night Allied bomber sorties.9 The most successful ace of Luftwaffe nightfighters, Heinz Wolfgang Schnaufer, shot down 121 RAF bombers, and most surprising- ly survived the war.10 A restriction Hitler put on the operation of the German nightfighters, not permitting them to pursue the RAF bombers to their illuminated landing bases in Britain, was considered a boon by Harris. It allowed his bombers to return with ease. Hitler wanted the German people to see the wrecks of the bombers; a real folly when one considers that many came down in isolated and sparsely populated areas. On the other hand, a mistake Harris made was not to gain air supremacy at night over Germany. Both Douhet and Trenchard in their doctrines state that air supremacy is a mile- stone in a bomber war. Harris, of course, was too much in a hurry to knock Germany out of the war. He took the risk, at considerable cost to his men and planes.11 Italy had few nightfighters and few antiaircraft guns. It had no radar system to detect penetrating aircraft, because what radar existed had been developed and was controlled by the Italian navy. As a result the RAF had easy cruising over Italy. Japanese military defenses were equally lacking. Most of the army and navy air forces's fighters were engaged at the perimeter of Japanese military operations. It almost appears that neither