tual fact there were few Germans in the city and the pulverizing left as dark a blotch on the RAF as Warsaw and Rotterdam had on the Luftwaffe. Caen was a mistake. It was a tactical raid gone wrong. Yet no media reported on the consequences and details of the raid on 7 July 1944 and subsequent raids on nearby vil- lages. Caen itself received 2,650 tons of bombs188 and lost 2,000, and perhaps as many as 15,000, citizens.189 The city was 60 per- cent destroyed and the rubble posed problems for the advanc- ing Allied troops. British wartime propaganda handled it under the motto: "Do like Dad, keep Mum."190 In 1962. Würzburg and Caen became partner cities based on the expe- riences and devastating senseless destruction they both had suffered from American and British bombers. Caen, like Monte Cassino and Wesel, are typical examples of the bombers having gone amuck by being plowed over several times. There were no Wehrmacht units in these places, there could not be because they were piles of rubble after the first raids. As an example, Wesel was raided eleven times by the USAAF and ten times by the RAF. 191 237 About half the effort against targets in France, Belgium, and Holland was to support the advancing Allied ground troops. The other half were missions flown against a new German threat to the United Kingdom. The Allies knew that at Peenemünde flying bombs and rockets were being developed. The successful precision raid of 17-18 August 1943 had delayed their development, but not stopped it. After the raid, research and production was moved to places in Austria, and caves and salt mines in Thuringia. The V-1 flying pilotless bomb was ready for action and let loose on 12 June 1944, six days after the Normandy landings. Intelligence and aerial reconnaissance had identified the launching sites being built earlier. About one hundred of them had been constructed with the help of 40,000 French and other foreign workers. But doubts about the existence and danger of the V-1 h