ver. Britain and France. The Allies were not far behind in retaliating. The men in charge of these carriers of destruction could be called executioners or imple- menters. They executed and implemented carefully concocted plans of how to hurt the enemy's civilian population. In the process they not only implemented a scheme, they executed thousands of people with their bombs. They were thought to be the instigators and implementors of these mass executions. But were they really? All of them were military men and, there- fore, subject to orders from above. As marshal of the RAF, Sir Arthur Harris, the man who sent Bomber Command to Dresden in February 1945, said it was not he who decided to raze that beautiful city, he only followed orders.1 Many a military man blamed for disasters defends himself 69  70 To DESTROY A CITY THE BOMBER PRACTITIONERS with pleading that he only followed orders. Orders there must be, otherwise the entire fabric of the military will fall apart. Although, when Fieldmarshal Keitel, the Wehrmacht chief of staff, pleaded "orders" as his defense at the Nürnberg trials in 1946 he was still found guilty and hanged. But that obviously represents the difference between victor and vanquished. Ironically, Harris made his statement at about the same time Keitel put up his defense. To call the bomber leaders "implementors" appears to be too flat a definition. To call them "executioners" seems too harsh. I prefer to call these men "practitioners." But nobody should ever ask me to call them heroes. The bomber practitioners we will learn about here received their orders from chiefs of staff, who in turn implemented pol- icy decisions taken by their governments or heads of state. In World War I there were people such as Hindenburg and Ludendorff, who ordered General von Höppner to send the German bombers off. On the Allied side, the Independent Air Force, formed as a separate section of the RAF and command- ed by General Trenchard, was directed by the Air Mi