f the war. British intelligence knew that the Germans did little in this field. There were fears that the V-1 flying bombs would carry a biological warhead containing botulinus toxin, eight ounces of which could kill the earth's population. 15  292 TO DESTROY A CITY GAS IN AERIAL WARFARE There was an enormous relief when the first V-1 carried only high explosives. There was a German army chemical warfare section. Professor Ferdinand Flury of Würzburg University was an advisory member and his laboratory and staff were studying the effect of gas on humans. Flury was a specialist in pharma- cology and toxicology, and his main concern was the treatment of heart disease. When he was interrogated after the war he testified that the Wehrmacht gave up the idea of using gas six months after the Normandy invasion because they were aware of the superior capabilities and capacities of the Allies. 16 In August 1943 Roosevelt issued a statement of Allied pol icy if the Axis Powers started to use gas or chemical weapons. He assured the world, the United States, and Allied powers that swift and merciless retaliation would be meted out to the Axis military forces and their peoples. He could confidently announce this, because the United States had a sizeable arsenal of such weapons and agents. The country was not bound by the 1925 Geneva Protocol and therefore there was no legal bar- rier to the development and manufacture of such weapons. As a precaution against surprise gas attacks in the European the- ater, mustard gas was shipped in a convoy aboard the John Harvey to Bari for possible use by the Fifteenth USAAF. On 2 December 1943 between 7:30 and 7:50 P.M., 105 Ju-88 bombers attacked thirty ships anchored in the harbor of Bari. A total of seventeen ships were sunk including the John Harvey which had one hundred tons of 100-lb. mustard gas bombs on board together with other explosives. It exploded and the gas spewed into the water and the air.17 The raid has been called the secon