,497, and Poland 358.173 But as we shall see later, this was only the beginning. The raids were all purportedly strategic to damage the German war effort and above all of precision nature. Unfortunately they also caused great losses among innocent people in the occupied territories. Despite the AWPD-42 listing morale chinas a recognised German target, there was much soul-searching among the U.S. air force leaders. From their own ethical point of view, they were not only concerned about killing women and children, they also had to look over their shoulders toward American public opinion. Their British counterparts did not have that sec- ond problem because, despite all the protestations that there was no control, the UK government had a firm grip on what was published. Last but not least, Lord Beaverbrook, a member of the Cabinet, owned a sizeable number of British newspapers. 229 However there were U.S. planes, bombs, and crews sitting in Britain to fight the enemy. On 10 October 1943, after some deliberations, the Eighth flew its first area attack. The center of the city of Münster was the aiming point. This raid set the precedent for employing the U.S. bombers in bad weather, which was now approaching, by using airborne radar. The device was still very inaccurate, but that did not matter as long as it identified a major city area. The Eighth bombarded many targets in 1943 with missions to such distant places as southern Norway, East Prussia, and southern France.174 The U.S. bombers based in Britain were by now not the only U.S. force that could attack the Germans and their remaining Allies. Instead of being stationed in the British mandates of Palestine and Trans Jordan, as envisaged in AWPD-42, a considerable number of bombers were now locat- ed in Algeria, Libya, and Tunis, much closer to potential tar- gets. It was the Northwest African Air Force (NWAAF) under General Spaatz. Command of the Eighth USAAF had been turned over to General Doolittle. Spaatz's bomber