president, said: "War is too serious a business to leave it in the hands of the military." What the Germans may not have fully appreciated was that, through the Entente Cordiale, Britain was obligated to help France against Germany. For years there had been staff talks between the two nations forging a plan to march through Belgium into the Second Reich and have it all over and done with in a few months. The Russians in turn were ready to invade Germany and Austria-Hungary, and squeeze Germany from the east. The Japanese were intent on increasing their influence on the Asian continent and eliminating Germany as a competitor in China. They were all ready and prepared. The heads of state had demonstrations in front of their palaces clamoring for a fight. Volunteers streamed to the armed forces and the troops were sent off with music, flowers, and the blessings of their churches. By the time millions had bled to death on the battlefields, hus- bands, fiancés, brothers, and sons had either not come back or came back badly maimed; the enthusiasm had evaporated. In 1914 in short order the Germans invaded neutral Belgium, the British Expeditionary Force came across the Channel, the Russians invaded East Prussia, and the Japanese conquered Tsingtao. It was to be by all accounts a short war but it lasted from 28 June 1914 to 11 November 1918-1,597 long days. The costs in lives and money were horrendous. Total deaths were 9.2 million soldiers and 500,000 civilians.14 Costs, quoting from the available literature, were in 1918 for the British £7 million per day, and for the Germans 180 million marks per day.15 The total for the entire war was U.S. $603.57 billion.16 The war aims of all participants were clear: Austria-Hungary wanted to curb Serbia's ambitions in the Balkans.  100 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR I 101 France wanted Alsace-Lorraine back with Germany as a harmless buffer between France and Russia. This became one of the major aims, particularly after the Bo