hamberlain's instructions, that targets must be clearly identified as military, were scrupulously adhered to; last but not least, because there was fear of unleashing German retaliation. This went so far that German warships in the harbor of Wilhelmshaven were not attacked because they were berthed too close to residential dwellings.13 The results of these sorties were dismal and the losses heavy. German fighters shot down many of the bombers, which had inadequate defense weapons. Deeper penetration into German territory would have been prohibitive. Before long the RAF abandoned its raids on the German navy. Daylight bombing had to be abandoned and precision bomb- ing of military targets was beyond the capabilities of Bomber Command because, despite all of the committees, their emi- nent scientists, and many technical achievements, develop- ment of navigational aids had been neglected. RAF aircraft fly- ing in cloudy weather or by night depended on dead reckon- ing and astral navigation. The resulting inaccuracies caused many bombs to be dropped far away from legitimate targets. Bomber Command, despite all the monies that had been spent to make it a fighting force, felt checkmated by the losses incurred in daylight operations, its inability to navigate at night, and the restrictions imposed on it by the government. Many of the targets identified by the Air Targets Sub- Committee were in heavily built-up German towns and they could not be located or bombed without inflicting German civilian losses. It was the commander-in-chief of Bomber Command, Air Chief Marshal Sir Edgar Ludlow-Hewitt, who devised an alternative way of waging air war. It was the first attack on the morale of the German people.14 From September 1939 until April 1940, Bomber Command flew numerous sor- ties at night over German cities, dropping propaganda leaflets. The cities were mostly in the Rhine/Ruhr area, where there were known to be German workers with strong Socialist and Communist sympathies