d from active duty on 1 February 1965. He died at age 83 in Moreno Valley, California, on 1 October 1990, and is buried in the cemetery of the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado. Compared with Spaatz and LeMay, all other U.S. bomber practitioners are minor. They all converted from precision bombers to area bombers and they all can defend their actions with orders from above. A typical example is Ira Eaker, who as late as 1944 objected to Spaatz, his commander, to the implementation of Operation Clarion.35 This was to be a superblast of day in, day out USAAF and RAF fighter and bomber missions, tactical as well as  84 To DESTROY A CITY THE BOMBER PRACTITIONERS strategic, against Germany for no other purpose than to drive home the fact that the Allies had command of the air. (Not that we were in doubt about that at the time.) Ira Eaker was born on 14 December 1896 at Field Creek. Llano County, Texas. In World War I he became an infantry officer, but soon switched over to the Army Air Force. He held staff and command positions between the wars, both in the States as well as in the Philippines. Not satisfied with a plain military career he attended universities whenever there was time. In 1934 he obtained a degree in journalism from the University of Southern California.36 As a bomber practitioner he was one of the commanders of the Eighth Air Force after he had helped create it in Britain in 1942. While under his command, it still adhered to the preci- sion bombing practice. In 1943 he was transferred to North Africa to direct air operations against the German Afrika Corps and to get the Allies into Italy. Once he became commander of the Fifteenth USAAF based in Foggia, Italy, in 1944, the time had come for him to turn at least a blind eye toward terroriz- ing civilians. Under his command, hundreds of sorties were flown against Balkan cities. Eaker's professional standards had by that time dropped to statements as to "instill a keen civil desire to ge