yet. The losses to the bombers were small on these missions. Luftflotte 3, still com- manded by Field Marshal Sperrle and stationed in France, had only 328 fighters. Most Luftwaffe dayfighters (764) were in Russia and the nightfighters (456) were stationed mostly in northwestern Germany to combat the night bombers. 167 The Americans occupied seventy-seven air bases in the United Kingdom and had all of Northern Ireland for them- selves. Like Iceland, the air bases in Northern Ireland were taken over from the British before the United States entered the war. In neither case was an official announcement made, leav- ing the possibility that German forces would attack neutral U.S. installations. The U.S. bombing campaign followed the Casablanca Directive and the Pointblank Directive issued on 14 May 1943. The former was seemingly an effort of the staffs of both air forces. The latter, although it was purported to have the approval of British experts, had been produced by "Operations Analysts consisting of eminent United States experts."168 It was a lengthy document that reiterated the parameters of the bombing war and updated the plan of action. It included what RAF Bomber Command was to do and confirmed its attack on morale. Interestingly, Harris, in his "Dispatch on War Oper- ations," does not list this document as having been received. The document outlines in detail which targets the USAAF would destroy and lists the required resources to do so. It lists the U.S. bomber fleet strength as 944 heavy bombers in June 1943 and 2,702 by March 1944. Based on the experience in the 227 three months before the directive was issued, 100 bombers were necessary to destroy a target placed in a 1,000-foot radius. Tight formations were required to ward off d off the German fight- ers. U.S. fighter escort is mentioned, but not clearly defined. One target system stands out as excluded compared with the earlier AWPD-1 and AWPD-42 documents-morale. Although the Eighth USAAF participated