lants on which there were still outstanding loans. The total tonnage of bombs discharged by the Eighth USAAF over enemy held territory was 387,500 tons in 1944.222 Adding Eighth USAAF and RAF Bomber Command bombloads, one arrives at 913,000 tons of bombs. To this total must be added the tonnage dropped by the Fifteenth USAAF of 260,000 tons. Well over 1 million tons of bombs rained down on Europe in 1944; and these were bombs falling only on strategic and area targets. There was no doubt that Germany was about to lose the war. But there were still a few last jerks and convulsions of the dying body, such as the V-weapons, the battle of the Bulge and, on 1 January 1945, a sweeping Luftwaffe fighter bomber raid on Allied airfields. Obviously the war was not yet over. When General George Marshall, the U.S. chief of staff, visited SHAEF in October 1944, he told air force leaders that he had doubts about their priorities being correct. He wanted them to aban-  248 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II don long-range strategic bombing objectives and concentrate on knocking Germany out by 1 January 1945.223 The logic seemed crystal clear. Why destroy the backyard when you are fighting at the front door to enter the house. The Allied air force leaders went back to the drawing board and devised a plethora of plans with codenames such as Clarion, Thunderclap, Hurricane I, Hurricane II, and a few others. Despite Marshall's clear statement, they all maintained strate- gic bombing, called for increased attacks on oil and trans- portation, and foresaw an increase in these efforts. They all contained the idea that a powerful show of air strength over even the remotest parts of Germany was necessary to convince its people to roll over and die. The culmination of all the deadly air warfare planning and execution in World War II must be the fighter attacks on anything that moved in Germany. The fighters had so far played their assigned role of defending the bomber formations in da