ench war tribunal after the war for these murders. The worst incident of official crime against Allied airmen was the shooting by the Gestapo of fifty Allied air force POWs 315 of the seventy-six who had tunneled out of Camp Stalag Luft III near Sagan on 24 March 1944. The official reason for their murder was that they had resisted recapture.7 As the bombing escalated not all German civilians main- tained their benevolent attitude toward Allied air crews. In the Würzburg area the most shameful incident occurred on 18 March 1945, two days after the main RAF raid on the city. In Würzburg there was a commando unit, formed towards the end of 1943 on Himmler's instructions to arrest parachuted RAF air crews. During the raid over Würzburg on 16 March, Sergeant Donald G. Hughes's plane was shot down by a German nightfighter. Hughes bailed out and landed near Sommerhausen south of Würzburg. He hid for two days in nearby Eibelstadt when he was captured and transported by the local gendarme to the Sommerhausen jail. Two members of the Würzburg commando unit who had been bombed out dur- ing the raid and had relocated themselves with their families at Sommerhausen became aware of the captured airman and after 19:30 on 18 March killed him at the banks of the River Main. They dumped his body into the river. All civilians were chased away from the murder scene, although it is not clear from the report whether they were for or against the murder. After the war the two commando members were tried for war crimes. One was sentenced to death and shot and the other sentenced to twenty years in prison.8 The other crew members of Hughes's plane were killed as their aircraft went down near Ochsenfurt farther south. Other killings of Allied air crew occurred not far from Würzburg in 1944. Four USAAF airmen were killed by a com- mando at Ruppertshütten near Lohr am Main in full view of the civilian population. On 29 September 1944 another USAAF airman was killed by a commando near Bad Neusta