led about 3,000 people. Next came the V-2 rocket, first launched against London on 8 September 1944. This weapon was completely different from the pilotless aircraft described above. It was a liquid fuel rock- et and the forerunner of the ballistic missile. It had a warhead of one ton, a range of 290 kilometers, a speed of 6,000 kilome- ters per hour and reached an apogee of 97 kilometers. Its flight path was radio controlled. The monster was 14 meters long and 1.5 meters in diameter.193 The firing required it to be stood up straight on a mobile pad as a launching base. It was a sophisticated machine which could not be intercepted as it traveled faster than sound and could not even be expected in advance, because it literally fell straight from heaven out of the stratosphere. About 6,000 of these rockets were built, but only about 3,000 were fired against enemy targets. London again was the main target, with 1,300 directed against this metropo- lis. Paris received about nineteen and about 1,200 were aimed against Antwerp to disrupt Allied supplies to the advancing ground forces. Human losses in London were 2,855 killed and 6,268 wounded.194 Why Paris had to suffer again as at the end of World War I, no doubt adds to the idea of German Schrecklichkeit. The V-weapons had a long history of development and were originally meant as tactical field weapons. After many false starts they obtained Hitler's personal support and were destined to become Vergeltungswaffen, weapons of retribution, for the ever-increasing bomb loads coming down on German cities. They did considerable damage and caused grievous harm. They were truly outside any of the conventions of war- fare, because they were utterly inaccurate. Their flightpath was known, but the atmospheric conditions in this path could only be guessed at. Together with the technical shortcomings in their performance and the weather conditions at the target area, the V-weapons were a limited success. Aside from bombing the V-1 l