e active replenishment program started in 1935 by nationalizing the aircraft industry was just coming into full swing.38 But the fall of France could not be prevented. The Luftwaffe had bombed the industrial suburbs of Paris on 3 June 1940. The aim was the Citroën Works; they were damaged and the human loss amounted to 254 people killed.39 Further raids were flown against French aircraft factories and the harbor of Marseille to prevent the arrival of reinforcements from Africa. On 10 May 1940, the day the German West Offensive start- ed, Freiburg, the German city that had suffered several times in World War I, was attacked. Three medium bombers dropped 69 bombs, killing 25 civilians and wounding 24. The Goebbels press reported that people on the ground had clearly identified the planes as French. Until the end of the war German propa- ganda blamed the French air force for having started the bomb- ing war against German cities. The facts were quite different. The mayor of Freiburg traced some of the shrapnel to German bomb manufacturing plants. It was soon found out, but never officially acknowledged, that three Luftwaffe He-111s had lost their way to Dijon, France, with orders to bomb the airfield there. Through clouds they identified the wrong target. The French were horrified to be falsely accused of the raid and braced themselves for German retaliation. It never came.40 L'Armée de l'Air and l'Aéronautique Navale did fly a few raids into Germany. During the night of 7-8 June, a single naval bomber found its way to Berlin and bombed a factory in the suburbs. Two days later, the same plane attacked the Heinkel aircraft factory at Rostock on the German Baltic coast. L'Armée de l'Air flew raids against the BMW Works in Munich and the chemical factories at Ludwigshafen on 4-5 June.41 Reports indi- cate that they found their target and did some damage at Ludwigshafen. The raid on the BMW Works is not recorded, neither in the BMW nor the city of Munich archives.42 The qu