lly never happened. It would also have looked irrational in light of the existence of the Muromets bomber. French Voisin bombers attacked the Badische Anilin and Sodafabrik at Ludwigshafen in January 1915, and Karlsruhe in February and June 1915.43 The official reason was given as retaliation against the Zeppelin raids on French towns. These new French raids after the one on Freiburg in 1914 upset German officialdom and the public. There was an official Berlin protest against the attacks on open towns, far from the theater of operations. Historians later justified the raid on Freiburg because there was an airscrew factory. But was it destroyed? The historians do not tell.44 Worse was to come on Corpus Christi Day in 1916, when French planes struck Karlsruhe again, that time reportedly killing 110 civilians, mostly children who were attending a circus performance. Again it was officially declared a retaliation raid. If retaliation  112 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR I 113 is an accepted fact in international law, is stepped-up retalia- tion admissable? The bombers were also employed on other fronts, but on a smaller scale. Between April 1916 and October 1918 the town of Treviso in northern Italy suffered thirty-two air raids by the Austrian-Hungarian Air Force. A total of 1,500 bombs were dropped with a total weight of seventy-five tons.45 The Austrian-Hungarians also raided Venice many times. World opinion was shocked. What reasoning could have caused an attack on that pearl of human culture? If the industries or dock facilities were to be destroyed, they were far away from the island-city on the mainland side of a long causeway. The Italians also had bombers and raided the Austro-Hungarian naval base of Pola on the Istrian Peninsula. Even the Russians performed a strategic raid. In 1917 a navy tender with float- planes was sent close to Constantinople to attack the dam on Lake Terko.46 The planes tried to disrupt the water supply to the city, but hitting da