s- ing a searing heat and combining into a roaring firestorm. If caught in the middle there was no escape. People became stuck in liquid asphalt and were burned to cinders. Jumping into a canal to extinguish the napalm on one's skin did not help because there was soon no more oxygen to breathe. The magnum air raid of 9-10 March was not the last for Tokyo. LeMay's bombers came back on 13-14 and 15-16 April dropping a further 4,000 tons of bombs and destroying an addi- tional eighteen square miles. In May they continued and by the end of the war fifty-six square miles of Tokyo lay in ashes. Other Japanese cities were not spared either. Yokohama, Kobe, Nagoya, and Osaka were burnt. In all sixty cities were destroyed to an average of 43 percent. Some of these towns had no military or economic significance. To the honor of the bomber planners it must be said that such famous places as Nara and Kyoto with their valuable cultural assets were not destroyed. Kyoto was spared at the express orders of Henry Stimson, the U.S. secretary of war. Immediately after V-E day in May 1945, a commission was sent to Germany to assess the results of the bombing war and to recommend actions for a speedy victory over Japan. To nobody's surprise, they proposed destroying the Japanese transport system.281 Their recommendations had no impact on the rolling fire campaign. To stop a military steamroller takes time. The bombing campaign against Japan was on its way and it has been assessed by historians as one of the bloodiest mili- tary operations in human history. Its crowning effect was the atom bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945. Reams of paper have been inked about the moral, political, and military issues behind President Truman's decision to unleash such destructive power. Should the Japanese have been warned, or should there have been a demonstration blast in a remote area? Was the A-bomb necessary at all since the Japanese government had already put out peace feelers to the