six tons to distill one ton of gasoline.216 As for oil, after the loss of the Romanian fields at Ploesti, Germany depended entirely on  246 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II synthetic fuel oil. There were huge plants all over Germany and many of them were heavily guarded by antiaircraft guns. They kept producing, because Harris, Doolittle, and Eaker did not attack them as planned. Aircraft fuel production actually rose from 10,000 tons in September 1944 to 49,000 tons in November of that year.217 Whether the raids were not flown to permit German production to rise and thereby permit contin- ued resistance against the Russian advance, as claimed by Groehler, is a moot point. Coal and its transportation was a bottleneck. Again that was clearly advertised because every- where there were posters exhorting people that no wastage of coal should be tolerated-"Kämpft den Kohlenklau" ("Fight the Coal Thief"). The Allied ground advance in the west came to a halt in September 1944 because they also had a transport problem. Antwerp, the nearest port to the front, was in Allied hands, but its access was blocked by German possession of the Scheldte estuary. Rotterdam had not yet been liberated and the liberat- ed French ports of Le Havre and Cherbourg had been heavily bombed. Brest, also heavily damaged by bombs, was hundreds of miles away from the front. The railway systems of France and Belgium had been devastated. Seemingly, even without daily bomber interference, transport posed a problem for Allied warfare. The Allied bomber fleets inflicted heavy damage when they raided oil and transport targets, but they did not concen- trate on these installations. The morale attacks continued and increased in frequency. Old favorites of Bomber Command in the Ruhr were plowed over again such as Duisburg, Essen, and Dortmund. Farther afield, Stettin and Kiel received their share of bombs and when they ran out of big and important indus- trial towns, the bombers crushed smaller plac