all-bearing factory, the Star Werke, or one of the Main bridges, is not clear from the references. But their bombs were loosened a few seconds too late and they all fell on a purely res- idential area killing forty-two civilians. Most of the dead had not gone to the air-raid shelters because nothing had happened before during the ceaseless alarms to which the population had been exposed and had become accustomed. From the USAAF files at the Albert F. Simpson Historical Research Centre (AFSHRC) at Maxwell Air Force Base, Montgomery, Alabama, and the National Archives (NA) at College Park, Maryland, it appears that the bridge was the tar- get.4 The originally assigned target for 305 A Bomber Group of No.1 Bomber Division was elsewhere but bad weather pre- vented that attack and Würzburg was bombed as a designated secondary target. The USAAF files referring to this raid show that only seven aircrafts attacked dropping 17.5 tons of bombs. The files state that the bombs missed the bridge and fell in a residential area as observed by the departing bomber crews.5 On 4 February, three days before Mr. Purbrick asked his question, we had a visit from two Mosquitos of No. 8 Pathfinder Group, Squadron 128. Three were dispatched, but one was lost prior to the raid. The attack is termed an experi- mental raid in the Bomber Command Intelligence Narratives on Operations.6 They dropped 3.6 tons of high explosive bombs and stayed about seventeen minutes over the target. The Bomber Command report says that there was 10/10th thin cloud. One has to assume that experimental raid meant what it said. They must have tried out the reception of radio signals emitted from Britain to locate the target, the response to the H2S radar sets carried by many bombers to show the target below, the weather, and whatever was needed to plan a major attack. I remember the attack very well. It was a Sunday evening at around 8 P.M. We were sitting around the dinner table when suddenly a sound came into the a