rtfolio and become minister of colonies. In March 1921 he convened a conference in Cairo to find a solution to the  138 To DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS rising unrest in the mandated areas. These lands were theoret- ically under the umbrella of the League; yet France and Britain treated them as colonies. In Mesopotamia and Palestine alone Britain maintained eighty army battalions in 1920. They per- formed costly police actions that did not fit into Lloyd George's budget. At Cairo, within one week Churchill persuaded every- body to let the RAF do the policing. As proven in Somalia, it was faster and above all much cheaper. Politicians and military brass were elated; the RAF because their star was rising, the army and navy because they were rid of a difficult task. Aerial bombing had taken a great step forward. Reports reaching Britain soon spoke of aerial attacks on tribal encampments in Mesopotamia and of machine-gunning the inhabitants. Churchill wanted the pilots court-martialed. Trenchard ignored him and had the political administrators in Iraq back him up. The new policing method was cheap and successful.26 Tens of thousands of rounds of ammunition were fired and about one hundred tons of bombs dropped. The RAF losses were eleven aircraft from rifle fire and fifty-seven due to accidents.27 The policing by the RAF throughout the British Empire went on until the outbreak of World War II. The Northwest Frontier of India was a permanent trouble spot. The RAF flew into Kabul in 1928-29 and airlifted six hundred British and European nationals out to safety in India. The effectiveness of bombing the insurgents spoke for itself In the Middle East, the eighty battalions were reduced to six as ground support troops for the RAF. Eight RAF squadrons of nominally ten aircraft each took over the policing duties. Salmond, the last RFC chief on the Western Front, took over as commander in Iraq. The problems with the natives dragged on for years and were far from over wh