hot.42 These outrages caused international outcries and galvanized the attitudes governments took toward the two opposing sides. The League stayed clear of involvements, last but not least because it was almost defunct and powerless. Britain, France, and the United States adopted a policy of non- intervention. Under Mussolini, Italy saw an opportunity to rope Franco into its orbit and make Spain an ally in the Mediterranean. Germany sympathised with the Falangists and was afraid that if the Republicans won, the USSR would have a foothold in Western Europe. The USSR pretended not to involve itself but supported ideologically and materially the Republicans. The lines of political, economic, and military interests were drawn by the summer of 1936. Britain, France, the United States, and other countries per- mitted their nationals to join the International Brigade, which on many fronts put up strong resistance to the Nationalist advance. On the Nationalist side, the Italians came in early. In July 1936 they sent twelve Marchetti S.81 Pipistrello bombers, complete with crews.43 Total Italian support until the end of the war amounted to about 50,000 troops and over 700 planes of all types.44 German help was crucial in getting Franco started on the mainland and continued until April 1939. In the beginning the German effort was clandestine and German military per- sonnel traveled to Spain in civilian clothes. In November 1936 the Condor Legion was formed and 12,000 troops landed at Cadiz. They were mostly Luftwaffe personnel but there were also tank crews and antiaircraft and artillery gunners.45 By the time it was over the Germans had up to 16,000 men in Spain on a rotating basis. In all, they supplied 285 aircraft, from lumber- ing Ju-52 transport bombers and obsolete He-51 biplane fight- ers to the modern Ju-87 Stuka divebombers, Me-109 fighters, and He-111 bombers of World War II fame. Stalin's USSR was enamored by the Republicans's anticler- ical and Communist stance a