il. In between were all the clauses about reduction of armaments, repara- tions, new frontiers, and other issues. As for aerial bombing, all treaties had one important clause: Article 198 of the Versailles Treaty forbade Germany to have any aircraft. The other treaties had similar clauses forbid- ding the defeated powers to have aircraft, including Zeppelins. Since the unspoken intention of all treaties was that the world would disarm, outlawing airplanes and thereby bombers seemed a hope for the beginning to a worldwide rejection of area bombing. Disarmament was Point 4 of Wilson's Fourteen. It was unilaterally and contractually imposed on the vanquished. No timely commitment was made by the victors to do the same. If only that had been accom- plished, the death of many civilians in the wars to come could have been prevented. The peace conference officially ended on 21 January 1920, when the Entente Powers and the newly created states had sat- isfied themselves that the world was set for a better future. But was the world ready? The Ottoman Empire, which had collapsed in 1918, was reduced to its heartland, Turkey, with territories in Europe and Asia Minor. The Dardanelles was internationalized under Allied occupation. Cyprus was ceded to Britain. The Dodecanese Islands off the south coast of Turkey were given to Italy. Hedjaz (today's Saudi Arabia), Armenia, Syria, Meso- potamia (today's Iraq), and Palestine became independent states, the latter three after a limited League of Nations man- date. The Kurdistan area was to be subjected to a plebiscite (something that has not happened to this date). Kemal Atatürk emerged in 1919 as a nationalistic strong- man and repudiated the Sèvres Treaty immediately after it was signed. He deposed the sultan, invaded Armenia, and drove the Greeks out of Smyrna. He sent troops into British occupied Mesopotamia causing RAF bombing in response. Atatürk became the father of modern Turkey. Nobody dared to stand up to him and at times t