both sides and in the end with the Red Army meeting the U.S. Army at the Elbe River in Germany in early 1945. At the eastern front the war in the air was ferocious but developed mostly along tactical lines. The majority of the Soviet planes were army support machines, many of them of obsolete design. The USSR aircraft industry operating at full capacity was in the process of replacing them. The Luftwaffe learned in short order that the high Soviet losses did did not guar- antee air superiority because new and better planes were rising like mosquitos out of the Pripet Swamps. When the blitzkrieg came to a halt in the winter of 1941-42 the Luftwaffe was weaker than when it started in June and German industry was in no position to re-equip it quickly. When the campaign started the Red Air Force had only about eight hundred long-range bombers. They were stationed far behind the front lines and escaped destruction. Soviet air strategy after the Spanish Civil War had abandoned bombing and concentrated even more than the German high command on having the air force play a support role for the army only. This meant that there were few strategic bombing raids flown behind the German lines. During the entire war the Soviet strategic bomber force flew 215,000 sorties, but only about 7,400 were directed against targets such as Berlin, cities in East Prussia, Bucharest, and Helsinki.90 The rest were tactical sup- port raids which resulted in heavy losses at the hands of the superior German fighters. Soviet strategic raids continued until 1945 but there does not appear to have been a basic plan to bomb targets or cities. The intensity of the attacks, particularly the early ones was small. In the three raids on Berlin in 1941 only thirty tons of bombs were discharged. There were several raids on the Romanian oil fields at Ploesti and in February 1944 there were three major raids on Finland involving up to 850 aircraft of all types to force Finland out of the war. A total of 2,386 t