TY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 243 craft factories at Regensburg on 17 August 1943 had started from Great Britain and landed after the raid in North Africa. This way they could avoid the concentrations of German fight- ers over northwest Germany and Holland on the way home. On the return trip the bombers could attack targets close to the North African bases and be better maneuverable when they faced the fighters again. A similar plan was to be implemented to attack targets in eastern Germany by running shuttle raids between USAAF bases in Britain and Italy and Poltava, a city near Kiev in Ukraine. This worked until 21 June 1944. The Luftwaffe had reconnaissance planes follow the bombers and when during the night of 21-22 June seventy-three B-17s were parked at Poltava, German bombers dropped 110 tons of bombs on them and destroyed forty-seven.205 About 200 He- 111s and Ju-88s had carried out the raid.206 Had the Allies fol- lowed Douhet's theories and achieved complete air superiori- ty, the shuttle raids would have worked. From summer 1944 onward, the skies over Germany were full of the contrails of the high-flying U.S. bomber formations during daytime and full of the drone of the British bombers by night. By summer 1944 the attitude of senior USAAF officers had changed completely. In 1943 General Arnold had already espoused the British theory that killing civilians will make the survivors force their government's hands. 207 The source lists the qualms many senior officers expressed in performing and ordering this kind of warfare. The American leaders were very well aware that they were approaching a public relations prob- lem. The British, with the help of German propaganda, were pilloried all over Europe as ruthless killers. Any historian who extols French, Belgian, or Dutch understanding for the bomb- ing of their citizens and their homes must have talked to the wrong people. Now the Americans, as had already happened in the Balkans, were falling into this same cate