ne would have expected that there had been a thorough study of how and in what form the people would be driven to lose their senses and loyalties to their government. Basically one could expect three categories of victims: The people who were killed by bomb blasts, falling debris, asphyxiation, or any other multitude of causes. The people who were wounded and/or had lost all their belongings, but escaped the firestorms, time-delayed bombs, and falling façades. The people who were not bombed because their dwellings were outside the target areas. Those in the first category were too dead to rebel. Their burnt or mangled bodies, often laid out in rows in public places for identification, caused shock among the survivors and gawkers. There are reports of outbursts of calls for revenge but mostly it was resignation. Nobody stayed too long near these decomposing bodies because the stench was unbearable. The second category had their hands full looking after themselves and their wounds and salvaging their belongings from the ruins. They had no time to climb on the barricades. The third category were glad they had escaped unscathed this time and were busy making more "personal defence" arrangements, i.e. distributing more of their chattels, and deciding to go to a safer air-raid shelter at the next alarm. It is not clear from any of the consulted sources how the theoreticians from Douhet and Trenchard to Cherwell and Tizard expected the bombed civilians to behave. Did they expect that any of the second and third category people would get out of the shelters after an attack or days afterwards rally en masse and storm the government? Who would be the lead- ers, particularly since the Allies did not support any German opposition to the Nazi regime? Much is said in British and American literature about the Gestapo and police suppressing any incipient discontent. Little of such action if any is recorded in the files of the Bundesarchiv in Koblenz. There just was no mass hysteria