65 were dropped over Japan, 75 percent of them incendiaries.275 Over sixty major Japanese cities were burned down during this campaign. The USAAF had adopted the Douhet Doctrine. Yet daylight and high-level attacks still showed limited success in the early operations. Although Japanese home defense was inferior compared with German defense, the B-29s had to fly high and the carrier-based navy aircraft took losses. Japan never had more than 500 daylight fighters and they had to be stripped of all armaments to reach the B-29s at their oper- ating altitudes. The Japanese fighters had to ram the American bombers, meaning for every kill there was one less fighter. By March 1945, one hundred and two B-29s had been lost, about 5 percent of the available U.S. bombers.276 To reduce losses, in March 1945 in a bloody and costly battle, U.S. Marines occu- pied Iwo Jima, an island halfway between the Mariana bases and mainland Japan. U.S. fighters could from then on escort the bombers on their missions. Tokyo became the main target in the early operations and in February and March 1945 large areas were burned down in daylight attacks from great heights. The results were not enough to satisfy LeMay and Arnold. Night raids were insti- tuted on 25-26 February when 172 B-29s dropped 453 tons of incendiaries and wiped out one square mile of the capital.277 What followed was the most devastating air raid in the Far East campaign and possibly in World War II depending on what casualty figure one applies for the Dresden raid in February 1945. LeMay had secured Arnold's permission for an all-out night raid on Tokyo to be flown with aircraft which had been stripped of their defensive armaments to increase their bomb load. About 280 bombers came down to 8,000 feet and unloaded over an area of seventeen square miles of the capital. The area was Akasuka, a workers' district purposely selected to affect the morale of the working class. The estimated popu- lation density of the district was 10