he Axis Powers would have to surrender unconditionally. This put wind into the sails of Goebbels who was whipping up German morale in light of the recent military setbacks everywhere. The other aspect was the "Combined Chiefs of Staff Directive for the Bomber Offensive from the United Kingdom" of 21 January 1943 in which it was clearly established that the primary objective of the U.S. and British bomber fleets would be the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial, and eco- nomic system and the undermining of the morale of the German people where their capacity for armed resistance was fatally weakened.141 The American bomber leaders, such as Spaatz, Eaker, and Doolittle followed these instructions. They had the B-17 and B- 24 bombers fly in tight formations by day over Europe, identi- fy the strategic targets, and unload. The Americans were under pressure from the British to participate in the night area bomb- ing campaign. But from the top of the USAAF leadership down  218 TO DESTRO BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 219 this request was declined and frowned upon for mostly mili- tary, but also humane reasons. For RAF Bomber Command the Casablanca Directive made no change. Harris in his unique position interpreted it that he had to continue to hit German industrial targets and since they were, in his opinion, in or near big cities, he would continue with area attacks. His attitude is best shown by his own statements, before and after the conference: To destroy something you have to destroy everything. The destruction of factories could be regarded as a bonus. The aiming points were usually right in the centre of the town. 142 In spite of all that happened at Hamburg [where 50,000 civil- ians died], bombing proved a comparatively humane method.143 I kill thousands of people every night. [To a police officer who had admonished him that his speeding might kill some- body.]144 In normal warfare practise, in besieged cities, if they did not surre