planes purchased from Fokker were sent there. Selected offi- cers and men were transferred to receive combat training, after having attended private flying schools in Germany for basic training. The German flying schools were financed and oper- ated by the army, although on the outside they looked like commercial enterprises. The airfield at Würzburg had such a school beginning in the 1920s. From 1927 to 1935 it was direct- ed by Ritter von Greim, a Reichswehr officer in civilian clothes. Von Greim was a WWI fighter pilot who became the last com- mander of the Luftwaffe in 1945.87 The Lipetsk school was staffed by 160 German instructors and over the years trained 450 flying personnel. 88 The Lipetsk airfield and the tank school at Kazan served not only for training, but also for development and trials of weapons manufactured under whatever ruse could be employed to escape the watchful eyes of the Allied Control Commission in Germany. A further part of the secret agree- ments was the delivery of Russian ammunition and other war materials to Germany. Reports reached the British press, but nothing was done about it by the Allied governments.89 Also in the Rapallo Agreement was a provision that Junkers, the German aircraft firm, would establish a plant at Fili, near Moscow, to produce military aircraft for the German army. It was a fully self-contained factory with a capacity of producing  154 To DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS three hundred machines per year.90 The USSR was to receive five percent of the production as compensation and royalties. The rest was to be transferred to Lipetsk. The enterprise was only partly successful because of problems with the BMW aero engine production and misunderstandings between the Russians and the Germans. Junkers, the owner of the Fili factory, was interested not only in surviving on German army orders, but also pursued the pro- duction of commercial aircraft. The Rapallo Treaty allowed the establishment of a German commercia