ld had some hope that Hitler, the sol- dier of the trenches of World War I, would not push mankind into another disaster such as any modern war would bring. He professed that he had no designs in Western Europe. As proof of that, one can point to the Siegfried Line, or in German, the Westwall. It was a line of pillboxes and tank traps built in 1938- 39 from the North Sea to the Swiss border. It took a national emergency program to build it, with thousands of men drafted to swing shovels and pick axes and to pour concrete. The line stared into the face of the French Maginot Line, a similar and useless waste of national resources as was proven during World War II. Many historians state that Hitler was serious in not wishing a confrontation with the West. If that was so, he utterly failed by his actions, threats, and bluffs. His biggest  7 BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II itler had barely announced the state of war between 1Germany and Poland when a few hours later President Roosevelt sent an appeal to Britain, France, Germany, Italy, and Poland pleading for the well-being of innocent civilians. He referred to the maiming and death of thousands of defenseless men, women, and children by ruthless bombing from the air during the past few years. The appeal said that this had sickened the hearts of every civilized man and woman and profoundly shocked the conscience of humanity. Roosevelt continued that, if this form of inhuman barbarism was resorted to, hundreds of thousands of human beings would lose their lives. He addressed his appeal to the belligerents in the hope that their air forces under no circumstances would bombard civilian populations and unfortified cities. An immediate reply was requested.1 Hitler replied forthwith, stating that the appeal represented a humanitarian principle that completely corresponded with his own view. Britain and France issued a joint declaration confirm- ing that they were in full agreement with Roosevelt's appeal. Chamberlain, the British prim