eneral A Spaatz said in an interview in 1965 that night bombing alone could not have won the war.5 There was a need for daylight precision bombing as the USAAF practised it. General Ira Eaker said in an interview in 1962 that public opinion in the U.S. did not allow area bombing of German cities, but there was no such prohibitive feeling about bombing Japanese cities.6 After World War I, when aerial bombing had been prac- ticed by the major warring powers, a number of people tried to establish what bombing had done and would do in the future From the empirical development of this weapon system a the- oretical base was to be developed to understand the phenome- non better and to make it more palatable to politicians, military staff, and the public in general. The theories were deduced from the latest technical developments and the experiences gained in bombing during the war. Air officers wrote manuals and developed theories for the next war. To mention just a few names on the victorious side of World War I there were Trenchard in the UK, Mitchell in the U.S., and Douhet in Italy The most often mentioned of these airmen is the Italian general Giulio Douhet. He was born in 1869. In World War I he advanced to staff officer to advise the Italian general staff on matters of air warfare. Before the war he had predicted (in 1909) that the sky was about to become a battlefield. His criti- cism of Italian WWI air warfare caused him to be discharged. In 1921 Douhet published the first edition of Il Dominio dell' Aria. At the opportune time of 1942 the book was translated and published in the U.S. and, a year later, when the Allied bomber offensive was gaining momentum, in Britain.7 Long before the translation, his work was widely quoted and absorbed by the bomber officers. Douhet's thoughts were ele- 55 vated to gospel and referred to in every budget request for air force funds and in manuals of operations. If one condenses General Douhet's work one must recog- nize that he h