from 1914 to 1945 are now history. Terrible history at that. Whether histori- ans prove that the bombing, killing, maiming, and destructions did not win the wars, or whether respected military leaders in their memoirs prove that the bombers brought victory and above all quick and economic victory, is in my opinion not the point. And mankind must learn from history. Clausewitz may be correct in his theorem, but he does not say what happens when the military have run out of war. Peace is the continua- tion of war after the military leaders have done their job and have run out of ideas and means to carry on. In the end the enemies have to live with each other again. There will be inter- actions again, foes become allies and even friends and the best thing for continued peace is to forgive and try to understand the other side. For me it is, therefore, far more important to understand why it all happened than to point a finger and pil- lorize people and events. It has become history and let us learn from it. Obviously we have not done that yet. The bombings in the Korean War, the Vietnam War, and the numerous smaller con- flicts since 1945 have continued to make the bomber aircraft a weapon well-liked by the military. Worse, the ballistic missiles of the great powers, pointed at large population centers indi- cate that nothing has been learned from the misery between 1914 and 1945. On the contrary, the killing of masses of people, 13 mostly innocent civilians, has become the envisaged ultimate modern warfare. Fortunately there were enough responsible civilian leaders on both sides of the Cold War to prevent Armageddon. International agreements have been signed pro- viding for the destruction of some of these ultimate weapons. But the technology will always be available. I do not think that Bomber Harris should be condemned. His decision in the morning hours of 16 March 1945 to send Mosquitos and Lancasters of No. 5 Bomber Group over Würzburg that night has affected me am