n the same timespan. RAF Fighter Command's nightfighters, together with the improved antiaircraft defense, ruled the air over southern England. Over two hundred of Peltz's bombers did not return. Although he had received come reinforcements, this campaign, like the original Blitz and the Baedeker Raids, faltered and had to be abandoned because of unsustainable losses. The order of battle of Luftflotte 3 had been reduced to 144 bombers. For the third time proof had been brought that the Luftwaffe was not a strategic weapon. Hitler, Göring, and the Luftwaffe staff took the lesson and practically abandoned strategic bombing, a type of warfare they had never understood or mastered, as compared with the Trenchard-trained Britons and the Americans who imitated them later. German planning now concentrated on the defense of the Reich and, despite the damage to many aircraft factories, the production of fighters soared to unprecedented heights. Under Speer, fighter production was standardized, materi- als were allotted, and the total war syndrome finally caught up with German industry by introducing double shifting. Single- engine fighter production rose to 25,800 by the end of 1944, a figure which was not expected by the Allied war planners.177 While Peltz's bombers tried to make an impression, Harris initiated his biggest and costliest campaign of the war. The bat- tle of Berlin had been started on 18-19 November 1943 when 440 Lancasters were dispatched. It was only a limited success because the city was covered by clouds, its location was beyond the range of OBOE, and the Pathfinders had made scattered markings. The H2S device did not work well on an indistinguishable inland target like Berlin. The raids in the fol- lowing months suffered from the same conditions until they were abandoned on 24-25 March 1944, when 811 four-engine Lancasters and Halifaxes Mark III dispatched suffered a loss rate of 8.9 percent. A total of sixteen missions were flown to Berlin ranging in di