work there). The MEW report classified infrastructure and commercial / industrial targets into fourteen categories. The highest rating was given to transportation targets and the lowest to food- stuffs. For each category the listings were further broken down on a scale of 1+ to 3. A 1+ rating being assigned the highest pri- ority for installations supporting the German war effort and a 3 being the least priority.5 The report on Würzburg listed tar- gets in the categories of transportation, public utility services, liquid fuels and substitutes, non-ferrous metal manufacture and fabrication, shipbuilding, engineering and armaments, chemicals and explosives, textiles/rayon/pulp and paper, leather, and foodstuffs, in all ten out of the fourteen possible. Nineteen targets out of twenty-seven listed could either not be classified for lack of information, or simply did not rate classi- fication; i.e. 70 percent of the known targets were unknown for their importance. As an example, the biggest industrial plants in Würzburg, Noell, the steel fabricator, and Koenig & Bauer, the printing press factory, were listed under engineering and armaments and qualified only under class 3. At the same time the printing plant of Stürtz, employing about five hundred, was listed under engineering and armaments. The MEW report did mention that there were barracks northwest and northeast of the central area of town. It claimed that they were occupied by armored and motorized divisions. Not that we had ever seen any of the armor, tanks, or similar vehicles. No mention is made that there was a Luftwaffe aerodrome, although the Air Ministry in a communication of 20 May 1944 27 did list this airfield as a repair facility.6 Thus the target infor- mation was at best incomplete and spotty. If the raid, as officially termed, was "to burn and destroy an enemy industrial centre"7 its base of information was limited and the question must be asked was it worth the risks, costs, and effort to send 225 bom