it the targets. Upon the urging of Lord Cherwell a new commission under Mr. Justice Singleton was formed to investi- gate how Bomber Command could best be employed. The report, dated 20 May 1942, was inconclusive and, although it caused some elevated heartbeats at High Wycombe, resulted in no new instructions to the bombers.124 It confirmed that attacks on morale had started by stating that on the four consecutive night raids on Rostock from 23-24 April 1942 onward the Heinkel aircraft factory was a subsidiary target. The aiming point was the Altstadt (Old Town), destroyed with laudable success. 125 But even when the target was found and hit, damage was often small and Bomber Command losses were high. When twelve Lancasters attacked the MAN works at Augsburg on 17 April 1942 in a daring daylight raid, seven bombers did not return. When I worked as a summer student in that factory in 1947 I was told the bombs had all missed. I could see for myself that there was little destruction in the factory area, whereas the inner city showed the results of the night raid of 25-26 February 1944 when 584 Lancasters and Sterlings and 10 Mosquitos unloaded 2,000 tons of bombs and incendiaries in two waves destroying 24 percent of the dwellings and killing 1,500 people. 126 A way had to be found to make bombing pay and produce results. If there was a vital industry within the limits of a German town raze the whole place and as a benefit destroy the industry. The error in this thinking was that most German city centers were built long before the industrial revolution and industries were located on the outskirts of or completely out- side the city. Oil refineries, the original targets, were situated in open country. Being large plants they occupied areas which could be easily found. Area bombing of the large refineries at Leuna, Thuringia, would have had a strategic effect without killing civilians. But the collective thinking of the leaders had shifted to attacking morale. Early in F