, both successors were of the singleminded obsession that they would go into the halls of history as the deciding military leaders in ending World War II. By November 1944 U.S. forces conquered the Mariana Islands south of Japan. Immediately huge air bases were con- structed to accommodate the B-29 fleets on the islands of Guam, Tinian, and Saipan. The implementation of such a project within a short period of time is proof of the manage- rial and technical capabilities of the United States. On 29 November 1944 the first B-29s were sent off to Tokyo, 2,000 nautical miles away, to make an experimental fire raid. Raids on Nagoya and other cities followed. They were all small in scale and results. When LeMay took over from Hansell he sent his crews through a rigorous training program which not only improved their technical performance but also the spirit of the men. All publications on LeMay agree that he was a man of leadership with a hold on the morale of his subordinates down to the last enlisted man. He still faced problems with the techniques of raiding cities and with the small bomb loads his planes could carry to fly to and back from the distant enemy islands. LeMay realised that he was in charge of an expensive and sophisticated weapon system, and that high expectations  264 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II were placed on him by his boss, General Arnold in Washington, who was in direct command of all the bombers on the Mariana Islands. He was also aware that both MacArthur and Nimitz were trying to have his bombers under their respective commands to ensure that their cam- paigns would end the war. If he wanted his place in history he had to please Arnold and proceed with setting civilians on fire. He is circumspect and apologetic in his memoirs about killing civilians, bringing in historical examples from antiqui- ty where whole conquered city populations were slaughtered by the victors. But like all bomber practitioners, he defends killing "their" civi