engines.72 Technical development was also pushed. The lack of prop- er navigational equipment was overcome with systems such as  192 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 193 Gee and H2S which allowed locating targets with almost pin- point accuracy. New plane types were developed with the Mosquito being the ultimate multipurpose craft as bomber fighter, and reconnaissance machine. There was clear and single- minded determination and guidance from the Cabinet down that the Royal Air Force was the most important instrument in the arsenal of the nation. Scientists and industrialists were brought in to develop and increase aircraft production. By contrast German attitudes and performance were con- fusing and ill directed. German national mobilization did not occur until after the fall of Stalingrad in January 1943. Things began to look bleak and Goebbels asked a crowd of ten thou- sand in the Sportspalast of Berlin on 18 February 1943 "do you want total war?" The claque jumped to its feet, raised their right arms in the Nazi salute and roared "jawohl." Before that event Hitler had decreed that life in general and supply of consumer goods and services should be as normal as in peace- time. In late 1940 the German leadership was convinced that the war was as good as won. No effort was to be made to increase the military strength. The Luftwaffe was to continue the war with the plane types it had and production quotas were sufficient. The three German armed services each had their own armament programs with no coordination of man- power and material resources between them. The aircraft industry, except for the Junkers Company, was still in the con- trol of private individuals and there was little coordination with regard to production, types of machines, and allocation of resources. Overall planning had been placed in the hands of Ernst Udet, a WWI fighter ace, who created a monstrous bureaucracy. Hitler gave orders without consultation and, as regards the Luftwaffe, t