lanned. But then on 14 May 1940 at 15:00, there occurred what can be considered the start of area bombing in World War II. The German invaders of Holland had made fast progress except in Rotterdam, where a contingent of parachute troops was trapped in the city. Overall, Rotterdam would soon fall, but in the meantime the paratroopers might be wiped out. The German commander sent envoys to the Dutch defenders pro- posing surrender to avoid further bloodshed. If no surrender or answer was forthcoming, the city would be shelled and bombed. The deadline passed, and one hundred He-111 medi- um bombers took off from their north German bases. While the bombers were on their way the Dutch commander surren- dered the city. As agreed between the German army and the Luftwaffe, the bombers were advised by wireless to return to base. But only forty-three received the message and the others continued. As an additional safeguard it was agreed that the approaching bombers should watch for flares from the ground troops to signal "proceed" or "abort." There were clouds and the fifty-seven bombers did not see the flares signaling "abort." On a strictly defined triangle north of the Maas bridges, the bombers unloaded ninety-seven tons of high explosives consisting of 158 bombs of 500 pounds and 1,150 of 100 pounds. 32 The international press reported that thirty thousand peo- ple were killed. The BBC seized upon that figure and we were told in their German broadcasts that an atrocity had been com- mitted. An atrocity it no doubt was, although the German army had tried to avert it and the number of victims was later estab- lished at about nine hundred. The bombed area was swept by a fire, which left experts wondering how it could assume such proportions. The people of Holland and the citizens of Rotterdam in particular had suffered losses that in a nation observing strict neutrality should never have been inflicted. Until 10 May, Holland had guarded its neutral status impecca- bly toward