have always been considerable commercial installations not only for the city itself but above all for the large agricultural hinterland. Agriculture is a prominent factor in the life of this area. Last but not least must be mentioned the administrative offices for the northwestern part of the State of Bavaria. During the Third Reich there were also party headquarters with their subsidiary organizations including a local Gestapo office. In contrast to installations of value to the German war effort, one must list the many non-military assets of the city. High above the west bank of the Main River is the "Festung," the castle which dates back in its earliest parts to Celtic times of about 1000 B.C. During the Thirty Years War, troops of Swedish King Gustaf Adolf II had besieged and conquered the place. As a result, the prince bishop, the ruler of the bishopric of Würzburg, had an outer ring of fortification added to the fortress. The military value of the castle ceased after the 1864  TO DESTROY A CITY 22 WÜRZBURG AS TARGET war during which the Prussian army lobbed a few shells at the occupying Bavarian forces. The Festung was the residence of the prince bishops until they somehow convinced the population not to rebel at the expense of building one of the finest baroque/rococo palaces in Europe. This has been there in the city center since the mid- dle of the eighteenth century. It contains the world's largest fresco, painted by the Venetian painter Tiepolo, and many other treasures. There were many churches in the inner and outer city. Some in the center were of particular cultural value because they dated back to the years when Irish monks came to Würzburg to convert the heathen Germanic Franconian tribe to Christianity in the seventh century A.D. The biggest church is the "Kiliansdom," the Kilian Cathedral, named in honor of the principal Irish monk. The "Dom," as it is called, dates back to the eleventh century. It was built in Romanesque style with later addition