al with it, not even Britain or Germany, where gas masks of doubtful value had been issued to the people. However there were plans by the U.S. War Department for use of biological weapons against Japan. General George Marshall, the U.S. army chief of staff, had ordered them in early 1944. The attacks on Japanese cities were not to be in retaliation of possible Japanese attacks-there could be no such attacks on any of the Allied homelands because of geogra- phy-rather this was to be a first-strike campaign.19 Fortunately cooler and more humane heads prevailed. Among them Admiral William Leahy, Roosevelt's military advisor, who convinced the president that such a step would be against all Christian principles.20 Nevertheless the United States was prepared to fight a gas war. The Chemical Warfare Service (CWS) had received $1 billion. This seems a tremen- dous amount compared with the total war budget. In 1942 there were already 60,000 employees in this service.21 Though mankind was spared gas and chemical warfare in World War II, the belligerents were prepared for it. In the end there were the following stocks ready for use: United States, 135,000 tons; Germany, 70,000 tons; Britain, 40,000 tons; Japan, 7,500 tons. 22  294 TO DESTROY A CITY Considering these figures, the U.S. position is baffling. At the time it was not technically possible to deliver gas or chem- icals onto American cities. That is, America had no need for these weapons to be ready for retaliation. Why then such stocks? Roosevelt's declaration of August 1943 condemning chemical warfare seemed to be nothing but a political gesture. At the time the Manhattan Project, the development of the atomic bomb, was well underway and what else but chemical warfare is the effect of lingering radiation after the blast of an atomic bomb? But fortunately, gas was never used because both sides were afraid of it and feared the retaliation. 10 LOSS OF CULTURAL ASSETS Türzburg, as most German cities, had a rich cultural