ctober 1932 there were 7.5 million unemployed in Germany. Yet there were some bright spots on the cloudy horizon. There was growing sympathy for Germany. French, British and U.S. troops pulled out of the occupied Rhineland four years earlier than the treaty stipulated. Germany was allowed to join the League of Nations on 28 September 1926. International respect and understanding for Germany was on the rise. It was partly fueled by genuine appreciation and partly by economic and political realities. The 60 million peo- ple in the heart of the Old Continent could not be left in limbo and ignored. In foreign politics Germany's star was on the ascent. But in internal politics there was still absolute chaos. The integrity of the Reich had been attacked by revolution, separation attempts by individual states, and paramilitary putsches. Among the latter was Hitler's Munich Beerhall Putsch of 9 November 1923. By the mid-twenties there were many parties of all colors and persuasions, but the struggle for power was in the hands of the Social Democrats, the Communists, and the National Socialists. They fought heated and at times bloody battles. There was a constant change of government in Berlin and thus no consistent central authority. As Churchill said, if the victorious powers of World War I had 129 not gleefully supported the abdications of the Hohenzollerns, the Habsburgs, Wittelsbachs, and all of the German princes, there might never have been a Second World War.7 On 30 January 1933, the Reichpresident Hindenburg, of World War I military fame, entrusted Hitler with the government of the Weimar Republic. The Nazis were legally brought to power in accordance with the constitution that had been adopted by the German National Assembly at Weimar in 1919. The new gov- ernment offered restitution of law and order, economic stabili- ty, restoration of German integrity abroad and at home-in short everything the ordinary citizen craved. The party pro- gram was a masterpiece of sta