dit of all participants, none of the bomber fleets dropped gas.  56 To DESTROY A CITY THE ROAD TO AREA BOMBING 57 Douhet died in 1930. He did not live to see his native coun- try shadowed by the wings of RAF Bomber Command and the U.S. Fifteenth Army Air Force. Allied raids on Milan, Turin Genoa, and other cities caused heavy damage and the records show that the population reacted with panic; but there were no uprisings. Douhet was not the first to expound the bombing theo rem. Hugh Montague Trenchard, the RAF chief of staff, had practical experience to prove the same point. His theories and their application in the colonial skirmishes between the two world wars and in World War II have served Britain. When one reads his biography one recognizes a staunch British offi cer, fighting for king and country.8 He was born 3 February 1873 and he died 10 February 1956. In recognition of his life long services to the military he received a peerage when he retired as chief of air staff in 1929. The ultimate honor for his services came with his burial in the Battle of Britain Chapel of Westminster Abbey. Trenchard's first posting was in India, where he befriended Winston Churchill after an acrimonious polo game. Their ways never parted from that time onward. Trenchard fought in the Boer War, was badly wounded, and came out of it with a col. lapsed lung. He recuperated and it shows his strength of will power that he managed to enlist in the Royal Flying Corps in 1912. During World War I he advanced to commander of the British air forces in France under Marshal Haig, and towards the end of the war took over the Independent Air Force. After the war the British Army and the Royal Navy exert- ed pressure to have the Royal Air Force, which was established as an independent third armed service in 1917, dissolved and control of all air warfare brought back to their respective com- mands. This was when Trenchard, then chief of air staff, fought his most famous battles. Trenchard succee