arfare planning and execution in World War II must be the fighter attacks on anything that moved in Germany. The fighters had so far played their assigned role of defending the bomber formations in daytime, to make tactical attacks in the front area, and to shoot down any intruding enemy planes. They fought the increasing numbers of German fighters that attacked the U.S. bomber formations over Germany. These were heroic fights, which nobody wishes to belittle. The Allied fighter pilots had a slight advantage because they were better trained. They received two hundred hours of instructions before they were sent into battle. Luftwaffe fighter pilots, because of lack of fuel and the necessity to bring them into action, received only one hundred hours of training. The bombing by day and night continued with ever increasing intensity. But now at daytime came swarms of fight- ers circling above like the gathering of vultures over a car- cass.224 Many an ex-fighter pilot has written about his exploits, how he downed German fighters and attacked Luftwaffe air- fields, bridges, and other military targets. Many boast about how many locomotives they dispatched, but without saying that in the process they shot up passenger cars and the people in them. No mention is made that they first made sure that the locomotive was hauling a freight train, a legitimate target. There are accounts of Germans and foreign workers who describe how some fighters first came down so low as to prac- tically look into the windows, getting up in the air again and 249 then blasting the train. Worse still are accounts where the train had stopped and the passengers fleeing into the fields were raked by the guns. The RAF made a science out of attacking rail and motor transport. From a report for the period of December 1944 to March 1945, it is apparent that attacks lasted only two and a half to three seconds, during which the fighter blasted the tar- get over a flight path of 600 to 700 yards.225 No doubt