strain at Hull.4 One would have thought that the Cabinet, prior to acting on Portal's famous November 1942 paper, would have sought expert advice. It was estimated that 6,000 bombers could de- stroy many enemy assets and could kill, as indicated, 900,000 303  304 TO DESTROY A CITY PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF BOMBING of the enemy nation. But that still left about 99 million Germans with which to deal. To hope that a majority of them would force their government's hand, particularly under the well-known conditions of a dictatorship, borders on naiveté. A dead civilian was too dead to rebel and a dehoused civilian too busy to rearrange his life. For help, the dehoused person had only the government to turn to and would certainly not wish to destroy that last resort. British leaders might even be accused of carelessness when one considers what national effort had to go into the bomber campaign and that in the end it was the old-fashioned land campaign which sealed the fate of Germany. It was against the warnings and input from people in influ- ential positions that the campaign was started and continued. Vera Brittain, the prolific pacifist, published papers on the sub- ject.5 The bishop of Chichester raised his voice among many in Parliament in February 1944. As the insanity proceeded, Mr. Stokes, MP, tried to slow down the slaughter in early 1945. All in vain. Normal human reaction to being hit is to hit back. The Germans did that in 1940 and in typical Germanic style with a vengeance. Their campaign, although painful for the people who were effected by it, was uncoordinated and more intend- ed to cause physical damage. Mass intimidation of the British people was never intended. The American approach to area bombing, as practiced on a grand scale by Bomber LeMay from March 1945 onward against Japan, also did not concern itself much with the psychological effects. The USAAF had a pragmatic approach. It was a cam- paign to get the biggest bang for the buck. Even the atomic