g civilians, bringing in historical examples from antiqui- ty where whole conquered city populations were slaughtered by the victors. But like all bomber practitioners, he defends killing "their" civilians in order to save "our" soldiers. For a civilian amateur historian (i.e. the author) there is a gap in understanding the military ethics of such attitudes. The U.S. military planners only recommended fire bomb- ing, leaving the final approval with its humanitarian aspects to higher levels.271 There was the general belief that all of Japan was one vast cottage industry, with a drill press in every home to make war supplies. LeMay observed burned-out drill press- es, like stumps in an area of forest fires, when he visited Yokohama after the war.272 No doubt this cottage industry was a feeder industry, ineffective as it must have been from the point of view of quality control, distributing raw materials and collecting the end product. Steel, aluminum, tanks, airplanes etc. could not be produced that way. Names and factories such as Mitsubishi, Ishikawashima-Harima, and others existed then and continue to exist. Most of them survived the war suffering little damage.273 A further argument for attacking urban residential areas was the declaration by the Japanese emperor in June 1944 that every Japanese citizen, man, woman, and child, young or old, was a soldier in the defense of the homeland. Women and chil- dren took training in opposing the invaders when and if they were coming.274 The destruction of Japanese cities started in earnest in January 1945. The plans had been laid out and all LeMay, and to a lesser extent the U.S. bomber forces now stationed on recently captured Okinawa, had to do was follow orders. Before the war was over in August 1945, 153,000 tons of bombs 265 were dropped over Japan, 75 percent of them incendiaries.275 Over sixty major Japanese cities were burned down during this campaign. The USAAF had adopted the Douhet Doctrine. Yet daylight and high