as that it kept them out of the battles of World War II and prevented the bombing of their cities, except for some USAAF raids on Prague, Pilsen, and Brüx in 1944-45. Slovakia became a sovereign nation and Poland and Hungary helped themselves to small pieces of Czechoslovakia. While he was at it, Hitler also took away the Memel District from Lithuania. which had been given that country by the Versailles Treaty. Mussolini was not to be outdone by his Fascist friend, and he occupied Albania in April 1939. It gave him a base from which to revive old differences with Greece. Next, Hitler cancelled the naval treaty with Britain. This alone must have scared everybody in Britain, because the Kaiser's old naval threat raised its head again. Next in his "Drang nach dem Osten," Hitler tackled Poland and the question of the Polish Corridor, which separated East Prussia from the Reich. It was again a problem created at Versailles and many people, Germans as well as others, saw it as such. As in the Sudeten, it caused ethnic tensions and even- tually 5,400 Germans living in the Corridor paid for it with their lives. 113 mistake must have been to sign a nonaggression treaty with the USSR in August 1939 to solve the Polish question with attacks from the east and the west. Viewed from the capitals of the democratic states, this meant that the dictators of the world governed lands from Berlin via Moscow to Tokyo. On 1 September 1939 Hitler declared war on Poland in a speech to the Reichstag, whose deputies, by now being all true Nazis, cheered wildly. Compared with 1914, these representa- tives of the people were the only cheering crowd. The German people and the world bowed their heads in sorrow and fear. Hitler's bluffs and threats increasingly met resistance abroad. Yet still the world had some hope that Hitler, the sol- dier of the trenches of World War I, would not push mankind into another disaster such as any modern war would bring. He professed that he had no designs in West