bombing of the large refineries at Leuna, Thuringia, would have had a strategic effect without killing civilians. But the collective thinking of the leaders had shifted to attacking morale. Early in February 1942 Archibald Sinclair had submitted a paper to the Cabinet proposing area bombing. It had no empirical basis and actually, based on the Butt Report, it should have suggested abandoning bombing. Sinclair convinced the Cabinet and Bomber Directive No. 22 was issued. Churchill, who had been a staunch protagonist of bombing ever since he had been minister for air after World War I, turned to his scientific advisor, Lord Cherwell, to prop up the decision with some figures. The Germans had provided the  TO DESTROY A CITY 212 BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II facts. Professor Zuckerman evaluated the results of the Birmingham and Hull Luftwaffe raids and Cherwell extrapo- lated them. His memo to Churchill of 30 March 1942 confirmed the decisions taken the month before.127 What Cherwell had not included in his memo was Zuckerman's finding that neither at Hull nor at Birmingham did the bombing cause panic or anti- social behavior. 128 While Harris, after his appointment as Bomber Command chief in February 1942, immediately went about to prove him- self as a forceful military leader and implemented the instruc- tions of Directive No. 22, the Air Ministry and chiefs of staff produced more papers which consolidated the area bombing campaign. These papers also showed the government what was needed in planes, gasoline, bombs, etc. to carry out the attacks. Allotting the resources to Bomber Command caused a stir from the army and the navy, but Churchill, the ultimate arbiter as prime minister and minister of defense, put his weight behind Portal, the RAF chief of staff. The chiefs of staff concluded in their meetings in 1942 that Bomber Command must be increased. Until that point had been reached the bombing should be concentrated on trans- portation targets. Harris ignored that sugges