gensburg. As there were no fighter escorts as yet, the losses to the U.S. bombers were appalling. LeMay landed with a badly damaged plane in North Africa, as had been planned. LeMay is among the few bomber practitioners one may call a hero. He exposed himself 83 and led his men into the inferno which these bombing missions frequently became. In August 1944 LeMay was transferred to the Far East to take over command of the XXIst Bomber Command. This unit was to become the U.S. air fleet that under his direction first underwent extensive training, next moved to the Mariana Islands, after the air bases there had been completed, and even- tually caused havoc in Japan. The tool of destruction was the B-29 bomber. The bombing campaign against Japan lasted six months and LeMay orchestrated it all from the bomber bases on Tinian, Saipan, and Guam in the Mariana Islands. One city after anoth- er, with their easily combustible housing, fell victim to the bombers. The human losses were as great as in Europe, with exact figures difficult to come by in either place. Like Harris, LeMay defended his campaign, correctly so, saying that he followed orders. As Harris he thought killing untold numbers of enemy civilians was better than losing one of your own soldiers; and as Harris he made many statements to that effect. He is quoted as saying: "I will tell you what war is about. You've got to kill people, and when you have killed enough they stop fighting."32 His most famous statement came during the Vietnam War, when he was threatening to bomb the Vietnamese "back to the Stone Age." His biographer states that he never said that.33 Yet in his autobiography LeMay put this comment in writing.34 LeMay stayed in the U.S. Air Force and ended his military career as chief of staff when he retired from active duty on 1 February 1965. He died at age 83 in Moreno Valley, California, on 1 October 1990, and is buried in the cemetery of the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado. Com