my hometown I felt that the leaders responsible for the bombing war should also be made accountable. I decided then and there that I would dig into this bombing. I knew little about it then and all its implications but I was going to study it, and as his- tory is normally written by the victors, I as a vanquished would put down what I thought about it. I planned to write the facts, that the Luftwaffe had bombed Warsaw, Rotterdam, cities in Britain, Belgrade, Stalingrad, and many other places; that the RAF and the USAAF had flattened my hometown when there was no more military necessity for it. I would dig up the facts and pillorize the planners, leaders, and men who executed it all. These people should have also been in the docks, if not at Nürnberg then at least in The Hague in front of the International Court of Justice. About twenty-five years before retirement, in the mid- 1960s, I picked up again on my original thoughts. My family and I were living in England and on my way to work on the train from Brighton to London I saw grown-over bomb craters next to some of the railway bridges. The area around St. Paul's Cathedral was full of new buildings. I read books such as Arthur Harris's Bomber Offensive, and every time I visited my old hometown in Germany it looked more rebuilt and as a mat- ter of fact better than before its destruction. My interest was rekindled and I began to study the subject. The books I read were, of course, all of the type written by the victors. They glo- rified the raids and in many cases did not even attempt to jus- tify the campaign. The more I read, the more I became con- vinced that there was room for some writings from the van- quished. But there were constraints. I had to make a living and I was working for years far away from my home base in Canada. Not until the mid-1980s did books appear, albeit most of them still written by the "victors," that threw a more critical light on the bombing subject. There were books by Germans which ca