and also caused considerable damage to the historical inner city. Assistant Secretary John McCloy flew to U.S. Army headquar- ters in Europe and ordered that Rothenburg be spared further raids.17 The damage in Rothenburg was repaired and today it shines in its ancient splendor, the the target of uncountable daily tourist buses. In closing the subject of damage and losses to cultural works one can only lament that Würzburg did not have such a protector in high places. PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF BOMBING The psychological effect of area bombing as practiced by the I RAF was not conceived and studied by qualified psychol- ogists. Political, military, and scientific leaders thought and expected that area bombing would have an effect on the bom- barded people. One must start the blame for failure with the scientists. What did Cherwell, Tizard, and the others know about human reactions to bombing? They were physicists or chemists or, like Zuckerman, a physician. The latter, although, did bring some scientific reasoning into the bombing. How- ever, the majority of them had only their imagination to draw on for the recommendations they made to the military and politicians. Their recommendations cost millions of lives, untold sums of money, and, in the end, amounted to nothing.1 There were no prior examples to draw on. Bombing in World War I had been on a small scale and could not provide any meaningful statistical data. The effects on Chinese morale after bombing by the Japanese just prior to World War II were not yet available.2 The studies made by Zuckerman of the raids on Birmingham and Hull showed that in neither city had there been any evidence of panic.3 Cherwell, however, in his minute to Churchill antedating Zuckerman's final report, maintains that there had been signs of strain at Hull.4 One would have thought that the Cabinet, prior to acting on Portal's famous November 1942 paper, would have sought expert advice. It was estimated that 6,000 bombers could de- stroy m