the island hopping campaign in the Pacific were estimated at 500,000 lives. This is the figure which was quoted many times by President Truman after the war as justification for releasing the two atom bombs. At the same time, Churchill, with typical hyperbole, even raised that figure to 1.2 million.267 U.S. mili- tary planners were more realistic and estimated it would take  262 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 263 46,000 lives, much less than the politically tainted figures of Truman and Churchill used for justifying the horror of the atom bombs. But even 46,000 U.S. lives justified an aerial cam- paign which would avoid amphibious landings. The committee reported in November 1943 that merchant shipping, aircraft and steel plants, and urban industrial areas would be the most important targets.268 Having done their homework properly, they observed that urban centers in Japan were and are constructed differently from European centers and would be more susceptible to fire than to blast bombs. The U.S. had excellent incendiary bombs in its arsenal which spewed fiery napalm. This made attempts to extinguish them impossible. Napalm was as humane a liquid as the phospho- rous jelly in the RAF incendiary bombs. Both stick to anything, skin, wood, steel, masonry, etc. Fire would spread quickly through the wooden structures of Japanese housing centers and it was hoped the effect on morale would be as still antici- pated in Europe at that time. U.S. Air Force planners never deviated from that moment onward from fire and morale raids as the means of beating Japan into the proclaimed uncondi- tional surrender. In 1943 the USAAF still lacked the necessary airfields to implement such a policy. However Arnold and his staff per- sisted that they could win the war for the United States. What had eluded them in Europe would work in Asia. As Portal in the UK in November 1942, they had made an estimate of Japanese to be killed-584,000.269 Members of the Committee of Operations