o help is not mentioned but must have been in the minds of the politicians. This paper proves many historians incorrect who blame Harris for the ensuing slaughter. It was the air staff headed by its chief of staff Sir Charles Portal who issued the blueprint. Portal is on record as having informed Churchill et al that the enemy would surrender after six months of the proposed intensive attacks. 131 True to the Douhet/Trenchard Doctrine. the war could be won with no greater effort than giving the RAF 4,000 bombers and 450,000 tons of bombs. Contrary to Douhet, there was no mention of using poison gas. Nor is there mention in the report of how many planes would not return for their next sortie, nor how many people would be left in the ley- eled towns to defy Hitler and his Gestapo. The report was passed around and since it had Lord Cherwell's memo to Churchill as its father, Tizard, Cherwell's rival, published a memo in which he voiced disagreement. It was not on humanitarian grounds that he disagreed, rather the arithmetic was faulty.132 A further point made was that in late 1941 and early 1942 Bomber Command had lost as many air crew as it had killed Germans.133 The body count had resulted in +/- zero. By 14 October 1942 the air staff issued another paper which stated in its opening paragraph that now six thousand bombers, including the American bomber fleet, could reduce resistance to an Allied landing in Western Europe to the point where such landing would succeed.134 The target date for the landing is shown as 1944. Suddenly the masters of the air admitted by implication that cracking morale, which was still the main objective, would not end the war after all. The fight for allocating resources continued. The British army and navy pointed out that transporting the raw materials and overseas produced planes, the gasoline, and the bombs to Britain would take enough personnel to man four army divi- 215 sions. 135 To transport the 11/4 million tons of 100 octane aviat