inese cities in 1938 and 1939. Information on these raids, aside from western correspondents' reports, are hard to find and history has shown that these reports were often filed on unconfirmed information. The Japanese Naval Air Force flew the raid on Pearl Harbor and was engaged in all the major Pacific theater battles. But nowhere can one find that the Japanese leaders and commanders ever planned strategic bombing campaigns or executed any on a large scale. As said at the beginning of this chapter, the bomber practi- tioners or, perhaps more euphemistically, the bomber barons were all high-ranking officers in their respective armed forces. They all have in common that they wanted the best for their countries at the time of national emergencies. They all hide behind orders from above when it comes to facing the huge losses of innocent people, who supposedly were protected by the Hague or Geneva Conventions or at least should have been protected by common chivalry. To show that aerial bombing can be employed in a profes- sional and military manner one should turn to such eminent leaders as RAF Air Marshal Arthur Tedder and USSR Marshal Zhukov. Tedder was Deputy Allied Supreme Commander under Eisenhower, first in North Africa and later in Western Europe until the end of the war. He is described as an articu- 89 late airman with many interests outside the narrow path of his profession.47 On his insistence Lord Zuckerman's transporta- tion plan was imposed on Harris. Although it cost the lives of many French and Belgian civilians who lived near the rail- ways, the plan restricted German troop and supply move- ments so badly that "Overlord," the Allied landing in Normandy, became a full success. Tedder believed in bombing strategic targets only. After Dresden he said: "Bombing, YES, but massacre, NO."48 Marshal Zhukov, the conqueror of Berlin in 1945, was a Soviet Army commander who expressed his country's view on the application of air power when he told Tedder that th