bers.44 Kesselring is quoted as believing that Britain could have been defeated with air power alone.45 After the fall of France, Kesselring was promoted to field marshal and in 1942 took over command of all Axis forces in the Mediter- ranean. Erwin Rommel, the Desert Fox, fought in North Africa under his command. They had many differences of opinion. Kesselring ordered aerial attacks on Malta which caused heavy 87 civilian losses and which cannot be termed tactical raids. He continued in command in Italy until 11 March 1945 when Hitler appointed him Supreme Commander West. Since Kesselring had shown himself as a commander who respected cultural assets by withdrawing German troops from Rome, Florence, and other Italian cities without a fight, it can be assumed that he would have surrendered Würzburg to the advancing U.S. Army had the city not become a pile of rubble. After the war he was indicted by a British military court at Venice for the shooting of Italian partisans and hostages. He was condemned to death by firing squad. The sentence was commuted to life imprisonment and after seven years he was pardoned. He died on 16 July 1960. Kesselring is described as a staunch German and professional soldier who stood up against Hitler and last but not least against the British judges in his war crime trial in 1947. Another German bomber commander was Wolfram von Richthofen. He was a first cousin of the famous World War I Red Baron, and at the end of that war was a member of the Richthofen squadron, or "Flying Circus." After WWI von Richthofen studied engineering and obtained a doctorate. When the Luftwaffe was being organized after 1933 he became the first director of the Luftwaffe research and development station at Rechlin. By 1936 he was Sperrle's chief of staff in Spain, and from 1938 until the end of the Spanish Civil War he was in command of the Condor Legion. While still under Sperrle the infamous raid on Guernica took place and von Richthofen is named in literat