EN THE WORLD WARS Lebensraum in the East, with a simultaneous destruction of the threat of Communism. He spelled it all out in Mein Kampf. In short he appealed to the people who could finance him. As an example, in 1932 the Deutsche Bank provided Hitler with a Junkers Ju-52 trimotor plane complete with a pilot, Captain Hans Bauer.8 Since the chaos in Germany appeared threaten- ing to Central Europe, even French sources such as the Sécurité and the firm of Schneider-Creusot financed the National Socialists.9 Even Henry Ford supported the Nazi Party financially.10 Neither Hitler, the poor 1913 emigrant from Austria, nor his cohorts alone could have had the means for the 1923 putsch or the later election campaigns. If, with suffi- cient financial support he came to power, there would not only be law and order, there would be markets and profits for his supporters. By the time 8 May 1945 came around, everybody had learned a painful lesson. Hitler had promised to recreate Germany and in one of his many hour-long speeches in 1933 he said: "Give me twelve years of time and you will not recognize Germany again." He could not have been more correct. On the morning of 17 March 1945, after Bomber Harris had sent No. 5 Bomber Group over Würzburg, I could not recognize my own city any more. It and all the major cities of Germany had been converted into piles of rubble. Had there been an amenable peace treaty in 1919, there might not have been a Second World War. There would not have been a Hitler government in Germany. Of the many state- ments made by Ribbentrop, Hitler's foreign minister, one was certainly correct. Before he was marched to the gallows at Nürnberg in 1946 he said: "How can anyone blame Germany for her government when it was the Versailles Treaty which produced such a government."11 BOMBING AND REARMAMENT In Articles 8 and 9 of its constitution the League of Nations recognized the need for disarmament. This objective came as a direct result of the fourth of Wilso