t, theoretically in charge of the coun- try, its people, infrastructure, armed forces, etc. But based on the unconditional surrender the Allies took the political lead- ers prisoner on 23 May 1945,4 issued an international declara- tion that the German government ceased to exist on 5 June 1945 and that the Allied Control Commission had taken over.5 That was the end of the Third Reich at the federal level. Since at the provincial and local levels the leaders had also been staunch Nazis, they were sent either to the converted Nazi Concentration and POW Camps or went into hiding. From May 1945 the Allied Military Government, as conceived at the Conference of Yalta, was the government of Germany. And what a mess they made of it! One of the few things they could agree on was to bring all war criminals to trial. There was a need to punish the crimes that had been committed. In the Far East and in Europe, on the high seas and in the air, acts had been committed that called for retribution. The legal basis for prosecuting was and has been there since the Hague, Geneva, and other conventions. I have read many publications on the war crime trials but found little reference to these conventions. It would appear that the legal basis for Nürnberg became an ad hoc undertaking, defined after the fact. The fallen leaders, irrespective of what they had done to other nations, had forfeited the trust of the German people. They had been constitutionally elected in 1933, but through shams and abuse of constitutional power had established themselves as dictators. They had not only brought disaster to  10 To DESTROY A CITY INTRODUCTION other nations, but to the Germans as well. Their punishment from that standpoint alone was amply deserved. But by looking at the mass graves and the rubble of my hometown I felt that the leaders responsible for the bombing war should also be made accountable. I decided then and there that I would dig into this bombing. I knew little about it then and all it