rench Atlantic ports.18 The German navy had built bombproof pens for the U-boats so no damage occurred to them. But the cities around the pens were devas- tated and many innocent Frenchmen were killed. Earlier the destruction of three German submarines under construction at Le Trait caused the death of two hundred Frenchmen working on them. 149 Lorient took the brunt of these raids, followed by St. Nazaire. On the German front, Bomber Command penetrated deep- er into the Reich. Berlin, many flying hours away from the bases in Great Britain, became a regular target. With the fast new Mosquito bomber even a daylight raid was launched to delay a Nazi rally in which Göring and Goebbels were speak- ing. The German radio and newsreel reported glowingly on the speeches, but said nothing about the interference caused by the bombers. Of the many improvements which were coming to Bomber Command, the Mosquito bomber must be consid- ered one of the most significant. When rearmament started in the early 1930s the RAF did not wish to depend alone on the heavy bomber to carry out the Trenchard Doctrine. Orders went out to the De Havilland fac- tory to develop a small bomber which would be faster than any enemy fighter and could evade them by flying higher. The out- come was a plywood covered plane, a masterpiece of British engineering. The plane could travel as fast as 415 miles per hour at 39,000 feet. Only the late model German FW-190 fight- ers could match the speed, but not the service ceiling. The Me- 109 could not match the Mosquito at all and only the Me-262, the first operational jet fighter, could perform better in all respects than the Mosquito. This new bomber could carry 4,000 pounds of bombs, only a quarter of a Lancaster load, but its aim was 100 percent accurate most of the time. The Butt Report had shown how inaccurately the four-engine bombers placed their bombs. With the help of the OBOE system, a Mosquito could place its load within three hundred feet of the tar