seventeen square miles of the capital. The area was Akasuka, a workers' district purposely selected to affect the morale of the working class. The estimated popu- lation density of the district was 103,000 people per square mile and conceivably as high as 135,000 in some areas. The tar- get area was well clear of upper-class dwellings and several miles away from the large Imperial Palace grounds, which had been declared off limits by President Roosevelt. The bombers dropped 1,665 tons of incendiaries and high-explosive bombs.  266 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 267 The raid lasted over three hours with General Power flying as master bomber and photographer over the area for two hours. No account is given of his impressions of the holocaust perpe- trated under his direct command. About seventy-five Japanese nightfighters rose to fight the raiders. They brought down one U.S. plane and antiaircraft fire brought down two. Another twelve were lost en route. One million people lost their homes, 40,000 were injured and, as established in the postwar U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey, 87,793 people lost their lives.278 Hap Arnold sent a con- gratulatory wire to LeMay the next day.279 It was a huge success considering the devastation achieved with the means em- ployed. RAF Bomber Command required a much bigger effort to cause the destruction of Hamburg and Dresden. What it was like on the ground is described in detail in Hoito Edoin's and Robert Guillain's books.280 The description of the inferno in general and the accounts of individuals who escaped it do not differ from accounts in books about Würzburg, Hamburg, London, Dresden, etc. The firefighting and civil defense services were overwhelmed within minutes of the attack, whole city quarters were engulfed in flames caus- ing a searing heat and combining into a roaring firestorm. If caught in the middle there was no escape. People became stuck in liquid asphalt and were burned to cinders. Jumping into a canal to ext