ty-eight towns? Even assuming that the towns would be 100 percent destroyed, the figures do not add up. In paragraph six he says that the German bombing attacks were examples of inferior techniques, not well planned and effected only a fraction of the damage per ton of bomb com- pared with what can be done now. Even if one disregards the British propaganda reports of  216 To DESTROY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II the German area raids meant for United States consumption one must recognize the ferocity of the Luftwaffe bombings of British civilians. Now the RAF was to do even better. The document was a position paper for the RAF for the forthcoming Casablanca Conference. It admitted by inference the failure to date of the theory that Germany could be bombed into submission. It proposed an even more devastating cam- paign to reach the original goal. It also showed the British posi- tion vis-a-vis the American ally. At the Washington Conference of the chiefs of staff in January 1942 it had been decided to carry out a combined USAAF/RAF strategic bombing campaign against Germany. By August 1942 the U.S. Eighth Army Air Force had estab- lished itself in Britain and on 17 August had started bombing occupied France, with the railway yards at Rouen the first tar- get. French civilian losses were 140 killed and 200 wounded, 139 The basic U.S. air strategy was founded on daylight precision raids flown by bomber formations which could defend them- selves against enemy fighters. The B-17 and B-24 bombers had heavy defensive armament and losses over Western European targets were as small as expected. It was strict U.S. policy that civilian lives should not be targeted. The blueprint for American operations was the Air War Plans Division AWPD-1 document. It spelled out the resources needed and the main targets. Under paragraph 4.a.(1) it listed "Possible Lines of Action":140 a-Disruption of a major portion of the electric power system of Germany b-Disruption of the German transportation