nchard, and Jellicoe, the Home Fleet commander, in particular. They all felt that the airplane's pri- mary role was in support of land and sea operations. The Smuts Committee thought differently and clearly stated that the time had come when wars could be won by air power. In other words, attack the enemy from behind. In January 1918 this credo was seconded by a cabinet committee whose rec- ommendations were to bomb large industrial centers in Germany.53 The newly appointed minister of air, Sir William Weir, recommended that Trenchard, by then the commander of the Independent Air Force, start up a really big fire in one of the German towns and not be too exacting regarding accu- racy of bombing railway stations in the middle of towns.54 The Independent Air Force had been formed in early 1918. This new arm in the British war effort was directly responsible  BOMBING IN WORLD WAR I 117 116 To DESTROY A CITY to the Air Ministry and was created to carry bombs into the German heartland to destroy factories, and also to destroy morale. Trenchard, as the professional soldier he was, obed ently accepted these directions. 1918, Even before the LAF was created, the bombing of German cities with improved planes had begun. In December 1917 Mannheim had been attacked, and in January Heidelberg, Trier, Rastatt, and again Karlsruhe and Freiburg The bombing upset Berlin so much that late in 1917 the German wireless service warned the Allies not to continue with these raids. 55 By June 1918 the IAF was fully operational and German cities from Freiburg in the south to Cologne in the north, and as far east as Frankfurt on Main became targets Fortunately, the range of these bombers went no further east and Würzburg, among other cities, did not suffer. The impact of the raids was heavy. The German Supreme Command made noises about more retaliation attacks. But resources were already stretched to their limits and Germany was retreating in the west. Later, Ludendorff, while aiming for an a