ost in the 1943 Schweinfurt raid were shot down by high school classmates of mine who had been delegated to the flak posi- tions there. Three of them were killed in the raid.) German cities protected by antiaircraft guns suffered fewer casualties. The number of people killed in undefended cities could be as much as ten times higher. Considerable further manpower was engaged in repairing bomb damage to infrastructure and industry. Again many for- eign laborers, some of them conscripted, some of them engaged voluntarily, were supervised by Germans, who other- wise could have worked in the armament industry or could have been drafted into the Wehrmacht. The Western Allies' claim that the bomber offensive tied up large resources away from the front lines and industry is cor- rect, though Speer, the armament minister and the Wehrmacht found many ways to soften that aspect of the bombing war. CIVIL DEFENSE In World War II, the moment the bombs, incendiaries, and phosphorous canisters came down, the civilians were on their own. Ideally, but certainly not always, they had been warned by the sirens and had moved to air-raid shelters. While the raid was progressing, they could do nothing but hope. Hope that there would not be a direct hit, hope that they would not be trapped in their shelter, hope that their home would be spared, and hope that it would soon be over. The end of a raid, when one could safely or otherwise leave one's shelter was always hard to judge. If the sirens were still working, they only sound- ed the all-clear after the last bomber straggler had disappeared. That could be a long time, during which fires would spread, façades would tumble, and time-delayed bombs would contin- ue to spread terror. Waiting in the shelters for the fires to sub- side could be particularly deadly when bomber commanders had scheduled a second raid for an hour or two later. 279 Before World War II many countries initiated civil defense measures. The most extensive ones were taken