ia and the Suez Canal. German transport planes had ferried 30,000 Italian troops from Italy to Albania. One feat of the RA should be mentioned here because it was one of the few strategic air strikes this force ever made. In true Balbo long-range flight fashion, Italian bombers attacked the oil installations on Bahrein Island in the Persian Gulf. For the return flight they refueled in Eritrea an Italian colony at that time still in the hands of the Italians.76 By 6 April 1941, German diplomatic efforts with Yugo- slavia had come to an end and in typical Clausewitzean fash- ion another blitzkrieg was started. It lasted only a few weeks. Yugoslavia surrendered on 17 April and Greece on 21 April. By June the island of Crete was also in Axis possession. The Luftwaffe and the Regia Aeronautica played their supporting roles attacking military installations clearly identified by clan- destine overflights long before the hostilities started. The worst and most infamous raid of this latest blitzkrieg happened on the first day when 484 bombers and Stukas of Luftflotte 4 dropped 360 tons of bombs and incendiaries on Belgrade. Whereas all other raids can be termed tactical, the Belgrade raid was clearly strategic. Many innocent people were killed and the Luftwaffe did not help its reputation formed by the western media as a tool of horror. German and Austrian his- torians, however, consider the raid a tactical strike. The enig- matic chief of German counterintelligence, Admiral Canaris, for reasons of his own had warned Yugoslav General Simovic of the planned raid.77 Civilian losses were high but have never been clearly established. Churchill wrote that 17,000 bodies 195 were in the ruins.28 Tito's biographer, V. Dedijer, is quoted as listing 3,000 bodies buried, and the war crimes tribunal in 1947 against the commander of Luftflotte 4, Generaloberst Alexander Löhr, accused him of 1,500 deaths.79 Another source quotes a figure of 2,27180 and still another quotes 4,000.81 In a s