pened in France. Why was it necessary to kill friendly civil- ians? Why this ruthless smashing of cities? The Russians made big propaganda gains out of this by pointing out that their air force was only being employed to attack tactical targets and those only with precision. The Russians painted themselves as liberators in general and from the capitalist bombers in partic- ular. Just the same, the USSR ground forces benefited greatly from the destruction of the transport system. By August 1944 Romania was out of the Axis camp, not because of the bomb- ing of its civilians, but because Soviet troops had overrun the country. Hungary was bombed heavily by the Fifteenth USAAF and the RAF from April to November 1944. In twenty-nine air raids on Budapest and its suburbs, over 7,000 Hungarians were killed.202 Hungary also was knocked out of the war, not by bombs but in February 1945 by the Red Army. The Balkan campaign of the Allied air fleets has been given little publicity. It was devastating, but small compared with what happened in Germany. Similarly, little is known about what bomber actions happened over Italy after its surrender in September 1943. Neither the postwar British nor the U.S. Bombing Surveys deal with the raids on Italian cities. The Fifteenth USAAF attacked Rome, Naples, Milan, and many other cities. An estimated total of 50,000 Italian civilians were killed by Allied bombs until the fighting in Italy stopped in February 1945.203 The figure includes 500 Italians who had taken refuge in the papal residence of Castel Gandolfo outside Rome, a place internationally recognised as territory of the Vatican, a neutral state.204 An interesting feature of the American bombing campaign in Europe were the shuttle raids. The bombers raiding the air-  242 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 243 craft factories at Regensburg on 17 August 1943 had started from Great Britain and landed after the raid in North Africa. This way they could avoid the concentrations of