time though small by World War II standards) is Picasso's huge painting called "Guernica." He produced it on the orders of the Republicans shortly after the raid. Its abstract mysticism has fascinated millions of viewers, and the event would prob- ably long have been forgotten were it not for the painting and its odyssey from France to the United States and to Madrid. In 1946 at the Nürnberg war crime trials the former Basque min- ister of justice, Jesus Leizaola, tried to have charges included for the destruction of Guernica.59 The request was declined. A consideration must have been that, as in all raids in the Basque region, the Condor Legion did not act alone. The Aviazione Legionaria also participated. The Guernica raid had tainted the Luftwaffe's reputation. It should never have happened. It was not the only raid in the Spanish Civil War which caused civilian suffering, although in absolute numbers it caused the most losses, provided the quot- ed numbers are correct. Barcelona was bombed between 16 and 18 March 1938. Barcelona, like other Republican-held ports on Spain's Mediterranean coast, was the entrance point for help from the USSR. The Nationalist, Italian, and German navies tried to blockade it. The Republican navy and air force fought back and Russian planes bombed the German pocket battleship Deutschland at Ibiza on 29 May 1937. As a reprisal, German naval units shelled the port of Almeria two days later, raising the question why innocent civilians had to suffer for a military action they had nothing to do with. Barcelona had strategic value and the raids in March 1938 must be considered strategic because it was not until January 1939 that the city became a battlefield. The initiative to bombard Barcelona was taken by  148 TO DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS Mussolini without consultation or approval by Franco. Mussolini was upset by Hitler's annexation of Austria and in general felt that the Germans were stealing the show every- where. He wanted