id the appearance of terror raids.175 On 14 November 1943, the Fifteenth USAAF made its maiden major strategic raid with ninety-one B-25 medium bombers attacking Sofia, the Bulgarian capital. It was the first of many devastating raids on the major cities of the Balkan countries. 1944: BOMBING UNRESTRICTED The year 1944 started with the Luftwaffe trying to retaliate against Britain and the ceaseless pounding Bomber Command and the USAAF were enacting on Germany and on the strategic targets in German-occupied territories. From the badly depleted bomber forces in Russia several squadrons were moved to the Channel coast to begin a renewed attack on London on 21 January. It was to be a repeat of the Baedeker Raids of 1942. The effectiveness of the campaign was small but the propaganda value on both sides considerable. German reports played up the successes and British media called for more destruction in Germany to eliminate the Luftwaffe once and for all. The Baby Blitz, as history has been calling the feeble Luftwaffe bombing effort in 1944, lasted until 29 May 1944. The man in charge was the young Luftwaffe General Peltz, who had been personally picked by Hitler for his élan. He had Göring monitoring him at his headquarters in France. But the Reichsmarshal soon disappeared when the results were not as expected. Peltz, who also had Sperrle as his superior, had been given 447 twin-engine bombers of Luftflotte 3, which made twelve attacks on London and the southern counties.176 A total of two thousand tons of high explosives and incendiaries were dropped and caused some damage and apprehension. Interestingly, many of Harris's area-bombing tactics were employed, but the two thousand tons were paltry in compari- con with what the RAF and the Eighth USAAF delivered to Germany in the same timespan. RAF Fighter Command's nightfighters, together with the improved antiaircraft defense, ruled the air over southern England. Over two hundred of Peltz's bombers did not return. Alth