o inter- national laws. The price paid for such correctness was bitter for a country that wanted no part of the war: about sixty people were killed, about one hundred wounded, and at least six hun- dred lost their homes.243 1945: GERMANY The new year had come but "The Marshall Plan" had not mate- rialized. On 1 January 1945 the USSR and Western Allied armies stood at the frontiers of Germany. In World War I, Hindenburg and Ludendorff had thrown in the towel at that moment. They had Wilson's Fourteen Points to support that move. In World War II, Hitler had made it clear that Germany would fight to the bitter end. We would all go down in a Wagnerian Götterdäm- merung. He had Roosevelt's unconditional surrender and the hideous Morgenthau Plan to support his view. Conditions on the German homefront had deteriorated considerably by 1945. All able-bodied men were in the Wehrmacht and many would never come back as the obituar- ies in the daily papers showed. Würzburg with its multitude of military hospitals was full of wounded and convalescing sol- diers. Food rations were declining, the stores were empty of merchandise, and many were closed by order of the authorities to free their employees for the war effort. The mood of the women, children, and old people left in the cities was depressed. There was no enthusiasm for anything and people were careful not to express any opinion because "Big Brother" was watching. The bombing raids and now the strafing by the 253 fighters was endured stoically and there was no visual sign of revolt as there had been in November 1918. The bombing increased in intensity. On 3 February nine hundred B-17s of the Eighth USAAF attacked Berlin in daytime. The raid was part of "Clarion Call," a plan hatched by the top military and scientific advisors calling for intensified bomber and fighter raids on all German urban areas, big and small, to finally convince the population that the war was lost and that the German government should be forced to g