lly tried out many of his theories. He occupied various government and academic positions, and in 1935 Londonderry, the minister of air, appointed him chair- man of the Committee for Scientific Survey of Air Defence. This was during the time when Hitler and Göring were boast- ing about the newly established Luftwaffe. Rightly so, there was concern in the British government as to where this saber rattling would lead. The most important and consequential work Tizard per- formed in the Air Defense Committee was the installation of the radar system and its connection to the RAF's Fighter Command. All was well with the Air Defense Committee until Churchill succeeded in having Lindemann appointed to it. Because of JUK  62 TO DESTROY A CITY THE ROAD TO AREA BOMBING old personal animosities, Lindemann blocked everything Tizard proposed. In September 1936 the Air Defense Committee was dissolved and a month later reconvened with- out "The Prof," as Lindemann was called. At the same time, another committee chaired by Tizard rec- ommended to the Air Ministry and the Committee of Imperial Defense means to improve Bomber Command. By 1936, in response to the British perception of a growing threat from the Luftwaffe, the British government had decided on the long- range four-engine bomber. But bombs, bombsights, and navi- gational aids were neglected. This situation continued until well into 1940, and as we will see later caused the escalation of the bomber war. Tizard's Bomber Committee recognized the shortcomings and made recommendations. But when World War II broke out, Bomber Command was still short of the means to perform its intended work. After Churchill became prime minister in June 1940, Tizard's position became difficult, causing him to resign the chairmanship of the Defense and Bomber Committees; but he retained his position as advisor to the Air Ministry. In that capacity he made unfavorable comments on Lord Cherwell's minute to Churchill about dehousing the German civi