, and from 1938 until the end of the Spanish Civil War he was in command of the Condor Legion. While still under Sperrle the infamous raid on Guernica took place and von Richthofen is named in literature as the commander of the air- craft that flew the raid. In September 1939 von Richthofen was in charge of the divebombers that descended on Warsaw. Later in the war, von Richthofen commanded other large Luftwaffe formations engaged in tactical operations. He had to leave active service in October 1944 and died of a brain tumor on 12 July 1945. To sum up the German World War II bomber practitioners, one must state that there was no thoroughly preconceived plan on strategic, area, and morale bombing. The Luftwaffe's top commanders had no bomber background. They had been at best fighter pilots in World War I and four out of the seven top  88 To DESTROY A CITY THE BOMBER PRACTITIONERS executive officers in the German Air Ministry had been army officers.46 The two extended strategic bomber campaigns. namely the Blitz against the British Isles from September 1940 to May 1941, and the bombing of Malta from 1942 to 1944, were ad hoc affairs and never executed with the scientific precision of the Allied campaigns against the Axis. Turning to Italian and Japanese bomber practitioners, one finds no names in archives and literature of any significance The Regia Aeronautica, the much advertised Italian air force by such people as Italo Balbo in his mass flights to the United States and around the Mediterranean, proved a disappoint- ment after Italy entered the war on the coattails of the German victories in 1939 and 1940. The Japanese had two air forces but no outstanding bomber commanders in either. The Japanese Army Air Force was responsible for the devastating air raids against Chinese cities in 1938 and 1939. Information on these raids, aside from western correspondents' reports, are hard to find and history has shown that these reports were often filed on unconfirmed informa