aerial combat, and as a result there followed a tremendous upswing in the development and 103 production of planes. The Germans continued building Zep- pelins, but after substantial losses recognized the advantage of the heavier-than-air plane over the hydrogen-filled airships. From single-engine scout planes the nations developed single-engine fighters, with engines of undreamed of power, to four-engine bombe mbers by 1917 and 1918. The time from blue- print to flying design was still short. It took no more than three months to have a new type of plane in action at the front. The number of factories went up exponentially, and great sums of money and man-hours were spent. In Germany alone, the increase of factories went from two to eight by 1914, with another five major ones in operation by 1918. The cost also sky- rocketed. A simple Rumpler Taube, made by the Flugmaschine Wright GmbH in 1914, cost 25,000 marks (approximately £1,250), in itself a sizable sum at the time. A six-engine bomber cost 750,000 marks in 1917. Aviation became an industry and big business. The factories on both sides of the war produced aircraft by the thousands as Il dominio dell'aria (command of the air), as Douhet called it a few years later, was recognized as a requisite to win the battles in the West. The battles between the oppos- ing fighters, with names such as Rickenbacher, von Richthofen, Fonck, Dallas, and Bishop, have become legend and the sub- jects of many books. Less has been proudly reported on bomb- ing. It involved different flying machines and caused consider- ably more losses in human lives. It was a messy business and created no outstanding heroes. By 1918 both sides had the means to inflict destruction in the other's land. The respective industries had been busy in designing and fabricating improved versions of aircraft that could carry explosives and fire in the form of incendiary bombs into enemy territory. The following long-range bombers were operational and actively