d be rebuilt to their original appearance. But reconstruction of the entire city has been com- plete for some years and not a single ruin is visible today. To me, the city looks more beautiful today than it did before the raid. The city council and the citizens did an unbelievable job in recreating a community which is today modern but deeply anchored in its past. It was all hard work, with little outside help. Würzburg was rebuilt without the publicity that sur- rounded such heavily damaged cities as Hamburg and Dresden, which received more absolute damage, but percent- age-wise suffered much less. 297 The damage to buildings in Würzburg was immense, but just as bad were the losses of other cultural assets. The 400- year-old university with its libraries went up in flames, muse- ums became piles of rubble, theaters and concert halls were destroyed, all elementary and high schools were burnt out, the city hall, a Renaissance building, became a shell, and worst of all many sculptures, paintings, and antiques disappeared. Many of the latter had been evacuated to safe places in the country, but since Würzburg was not expected to suffer a major raid, owners of such treasures were reluctant to let them out of sight. Some treasures even survived the immense heat but then disappeared. They were either stolen by fellow citizens or by the occupying American troops, who were at times quite free in taking along war booty, sometimes even taken during break- ins into private homes.3 As an example, it is a mystery to this day what happened to a one-meter-tall Tilman Riemen- schneider Madonna, a gothic wood carving, which miracu- lously had survived the fire. It was seen hanging on one of the pillars inside the Dom after the raid.4 Riemenschneider was next to Veit Stoss, the greatest Ger- man sculptor. Due to the foresight of owners and museum directors, most of his works in wood or stone survived. What did not survive were the busts, each about one meter tall, of the three Franco