motorized. A technical emergency service was created, complete with heavy equipment to effect rescues and repairs. In every house a defense group was formed from the inhabitants. These people had to be trained 104 hours per year. Attics had to be cleared of combustible materials. Home owners had to provide hand water pumps, sand bags, etc. Basement shelters with airtight doors and windows were built.  280 To DESTROY A CITY MILITARY AND CIVIL DEFENSE Adjacent buildings had to have emergency passages between them in the basements. Everybody had to buy a gas mask; price RM 5.00. There were periodic civil defense exercises complete with black-outs.20 Over 12 million people were trained in civil defense which would include slaking fires with sandbags or hand-operated water pumps (a futile exercise considering even the first fire raids of Bomber Command, when thousands of incendiaries were dropped over a small area), to giving first aid. Luftschutz, air defense, became a major national effort Pamphlets, posters, radio programs, and other means of media could be seen or heard everywhere. Money was spent by all levels of government to install a system of protection for the ordinary citizen. Obviously, the authorities did not trust the capabilities of the military defense apparatus. In 1933-34 German industry spent about RM 4 million to protect its facto- ries. During the same period German towns spent about RM 10 million. Würzburg, as all German cities, had to spend from its tax revenue considerable sums to install and perfect its civil defense system. In 1939 RM 227,223 were expended, lesser sums between 1940 and 1943 (the Wehrmacht was winning the war), and RM 296,517 in 1944 when the chances of being bombed became greater. The total was RM 1.1 million which was used to train civil defense forces, to construct public shel- ters for hundreds of people, to construct big water ponds in public places (as reservoirs for the firefighters), to purchase and tear down houses to ma