945 onward against Japan, also did not concern itself much with the psychological effects. The USAAF had a pragmatic approach. It was a cam- paign to get the biggest bang for the buck. Even the atomic bombs did nothing to raise the Japanese against their leaders. Bombing did have some psychological effects but not on the scale the responsible leaders expected. It effected the bombers and the bombed. The young men who delivered the deadly loads to their targets underwent unbelievable stress. They were exposed to fighters, flak, and searchlights and, once being found and tar- geted, had little chance to escape. Fear of collision with other aircraft over the target zone or at landing was also a big factor. 305 The well-known statistics of survival rates during a tour of duty had a terrifying impact. Depending on the average loss rate of bombers during mis- sions, the survival chances during the fifty obligatory opera- tional flights for which Bomber Command air crews were signed on could be as low as 13 percent if the loss rate was 4 percent.6 It was recognised that 4 percent would eventually lead to a decline of the force. An average of 5 percent would mean the end of a unit in short order.7 Similar statistics were developed by the Americans which showed that, based on five missions flown per month and 6 percent combat losses, an air- man had a 50 percent chance of survival at twelve missions and 25 percent at twenty-five missions.8 No doubt these figures could not instill confidence. Most published personal accounts of air crews do not mention these facts and speak only of the glory of it all. The selection of bomber crews did not include a testing by a qualified psychologist. The young men were trained, then given expensive weapons and only by experience over time was it assessed whether the men were psychologically capable of enduring the stress. It was not in the planning of the bomber campaign that human nature might suffer from flying and drop- ping bombs on the