he magnitude of the fighter campaign can be appreciated when one peruses Carter and Mueller's Combat Chronology 1941-1945.231 Thousands of these planes were sent over  250 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 251 Germany from mid-1944 onward to either first raid specific tar- gets or protect the bombers and then be allowed to attack tar- gets of their own choosing. As part of the unrestricted bombing there were attacks on neutral countries mostly followed by diplomatic exchanges between the governments of the bombers and the bombed. Settlements were negotiated, ranging from the sale of radar equipment by Britain to Sweden and at the same time release of interned RAF aircrews,232 to a compensation payment of U.S. $14 million to Switzerland by the United States in October 1949.233 The first such bombing happened on 4 September 1939 when the RAF attacked ships in the Kiel Canal. One plane went 110 miles astray to the north and dropped two bombs on the Danish town of Esbjerg killing two neutral citizens.234 The last unintentional raids happened in early March 1945, when the Eighth USAAF attacked the cities of Zurich and Basel in Switzerland on the same day, dropping forty tons of high explosives and incendiaries. Spaatz was sent by Roosevelt to Switzerland to apologize. 235 Swiss papers voiced indignation and did not accept Spaatz's explanation of bad weather. The U.S. government considered it prudent to pay $4 million immediately in damages. The countries suffering most from the overflights and bombing were Sweden and Switzerland. Crossing over southern Sweden by Bomber Command on their way to German targets had become a routine matter. During the entire war, between 6,000 and 8,000 infringements of Swedish air space by at times tightly flown RAF bomber streams took place.236 The Swedish government protested fre- quently in London but let it be known that this was just a rou- tine matter and should not be taken too seriously. Sweden had a difficult position to mai