ould only be guessed at. Together with the technical shortcomings in their performance and the weather conditions at the target area, the V-weapons were a limited success. Aside from bombing the V-1 launching sites, the Allied military commanders turned a blind eye to the new threat and left the civilians to their own devices to endure the dan- 239 ger. Churchill became concerned about the V-weapons and made plans to use poison gas as retribution for the retribu- tion. 195 The threat to people within the range of these weapons lasted until March 1945. The Wehrmacht purposely set up V- 2 launch pads in populated areas like The Hague, Holland. They used the surrounding cities as hostages against bomb- ing the launching installations. The pads in The Hague were to be destroyed by bombers on 3 March 1945, but as so often happened, the real targets escaped unscathed and 800 inno- cent Dutch citizens were killed. The Dutch foreign minister in London lodged a formal protest with the British foreign min- ister on 7 March and indicated that the Dutch population was becoming very "anti-Allies" as a result of continued inaccu- rate bombing. 196 On 20 July 1944 there was a remote chance that the fight- ing, bombing, and killing could be stopped. A group of German officers made an attempt on Hitler's life. It failed. The courageous and patriotic conspirators paid with their lives. Through international channels they had solicited the support of the Western Allies. They were ignored. Roosevelt's uncondi- tional surrender order seemingly included all Germans, pro and contra Nazis. The irony is that if area bombing was to cause the Germans to force their government's hand, the movement needed leaders. Here there were potential leaders risking their lives and their honor. All resistance and partisan movements in German-occupied territories received Allied and Soviet support. But in Germany the conspirators not only had to struggle against their internal enemies, but against their ex