craft each took over the policing duties. Salmond, the last RFC chief on the Western Front, took over as commander in Iraq. The problems with the natives dragged on for years and were far from over when the Luftwaffe appeared as a threat on the horizon of Iraq in World War II. The method of pacification raised indignant voices in the Westminster Parliament but Trenchard and successive air min- isters persisted in letting the bombs fall. The Cabinet agreed and in 1927 designated the RAF to police the Aden Pro- tectorate, thereby allowing the reduction of armed forces to one British battalion, one Indian battalion, and one RAF 139 Squadron.28 In 1928 the Imam of Yemen captured two sheiks friendly to Britain. The one RAF squadron brought the Imam to heel within one week at the cost of about £8,000.29 Portal had become the commander of the British forces in Yemen and Aden, and when new trouble erupted in 1934 he quelled it in three months by bombing the insurgent villages. A total of twenty-eight tons of high-explosive and incendiary bombs were dropped, eighty of which were fused for delayed explo- sion. The latter killed seven people when they tampered with them, although no other losses were incurred through the bombing. RAF losses were zero.30 The report Portal sent to the Air Ministry was praised highly and helped its author on his road to the highest post in the RAF. In India, the policing carried on into World War II, when RAF planes fired on protest rallies five times in August and September 1942.31 The pacification of rebels and their kin by the RAF was a brutal undertaking. It included not only bombing of towns and villages but the destruction of crops, cattle, water supplies, and anything that supported life in the insurgent areas. It was extremely successful. It confirmed the Trenchard and Douhet doctrines. The RAF, that new and untraditional third service, had proven its usefulness. Admiral Beatty, its most vociferous opponent, had to concede defeat. Trencha