or strategic installations, although he admitted that this did not always happen and that civilians were killed.º But he showed no qualms because the French had continued to raid German cities, such as Karlsruhe on Corpus Christi Day 1916, killing 110 civilians, mostly children, according to German reports. Höppner, the bomber practitioner, had convinced himself that his orders were justified as reprisals in accordance with the Hague Conventions. Also, he felt he was only following orders as did many another soldier. Another bomber practitioner was Britain's Sir John Salmond, who had taken over from Trenchard in France in World War I when the latter was put in charge of the Independant Air Force. Salmond's attitude to area bombing is best shown in his November 1923 letter to Trenchard, in which he defended the practice in Iraq.10 He first of all hid, as any good bomber prac- titioner, behind his superiors, some of them high civilian administrators. But then he showed his conviction that bomb-  74 TO DESTROY A CITY THE BOMBER PRACTITIONERS ing civilians and their villages was helping the task of pacify- ing the area. In other words, don't fight the men, fight their women and children. It is cheaper and less demanding on your own military resources. Many M.P.s in Britain and even Air Commodore L. E. O. Charlton, Salmond's chief staff officer, objected to this type of pacification. Salmond was active in the RAF until 1933 when he resigned as chief of air staff. This was the highest position an RAF officer could attain and Salmond occupied it for three years. His actions in Iraq were only a small part of his career as an honorable RAF officer, but they added to the proliferation of area bombing as an acceptable form of warfare. One historian has gone so far as to call Sir John Salmond's operations in Iraq a brilliant example of RAF activities.11 Salmond's influence was felt in the decision-making councils of the Air Ministry until well into World War II. Yet Salmond nev