ese dead and up to 1.3 million injured.285 The two atom bombs destroyed two entire cities, but the conventional bombing had flattened an area thirty times larger.286 When it came time to sign the armistice on board the bat- tleship Missouri in Tokyo Bay on 2 September 1945, it was the army General Douglas MacArthur who presided over the cer- emony. The air force generals figured in the background. World War II was over and all experts agree it was not the bombers who had won it. Part Three The Effect and Effectiveness of Strategic Bombing "Military action is important to the nation- it is the ground of death and life, the path of survival and destruction, so it is imperative to examine it." -Sun Tzu, The Art of War  zorgsimile To 8 MILITARY AND CIVIL DEFENSE The well-organized and equipped German nightfighters I were not in action over W端rzburg on 16 March 1945. The German controllers fell victim to Bomber Command's spoofs and directed the fighters to Hanau and N端rnberg, allowing the Lancasters to cross and unload over W端rzburg unimpeded. Since all flak had been withdrawn long before the raid, the bombers faced no dangers. Civil defense of W端rzburg was well-organized but com- pletely overwhelmed by the magnitude of the raid. The devel- oping firestorm could not be contained. Communications col- lapsed and civil defense units concentrated on guiding people out of the inferno of the inner city to the river and the Ringpark. MILITARY DEFENSE When the German High Command initiated bombing Britain, France, and Belgium in World War I, and when inter- national and German opposition to this new and uncivilized warfare grew louder, Hindenburg defended his decision with the correct statement that the few German Zeppelins and bombers kept considerable Allied forces engaged to shoot them down. In World War I, the "masterbomber" of World War II, Arthur Harris, was in charge of a flight of RFC fighters to hunt first Zeppelins and later Gothas day and night. In 1916 over 19,000 so