ed the city dur- ing daytime. The gory details of that operation need not be repeated here. There is ample literature in both English and German which describes how 50,000 civilians died.157 Four major raids were directed against the city by Bomber Command at night and the Americans flew 252 B-17 sorties in two days. Bomber Command's aiming points were the resi- dential areas, whereas the Eighth USAAF had selected indus- trial targets. Bomber Command released 10,000 tons of high explosives and incendiaries from over 3,000 aircraft. As a result the second largest German city (1.5 million) was well over 60 percent destroyed, about 50,000 people were killed, and 87 bombers were lost. The low loss rate for the bombers of about 2.9 percent occurred because "Window" was used for the first time. Millions of small aluminum stripes were thrown from the attacking planes to completely thwart the German radar defense. Speer, the German armament minister, is quoted as saying that a few more raids like the Hamburg one would have forced Germany to surrender. He said that after the war and from many of his pronouncements some historians cannot help getting the impression that he was currying favor with his cap- tors. But the fact remains that it took Hamburg industry only months to return to production, under the circumstances an incredible achievement, thanks mainly to Speer's ingenious talent for organising the German war effort. There can be no doubt that, had Bomber Command been able to keep up the pace of destroying the principal German cities and keeping them destroyed, the German war effort would have come to a standstill. But there were never enough planes. The piecemeal destruction of the cities allowed the Germans to recov- er and carry on. If the industries, as listed in the famous memo  224 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 225 No. 22, had been obliterated by precision attacks, it would have been finis Germaniae. One must ask again: Why were there no more Mosqui