pro- gressed because Soviet resistance in the air and on the ground increased. There were still concentrated actions which involved hundreds of German bombers and caused great damage. In June 1942 the raids on Sevastopol, the USSR naval base in the Crimea, rained 2,246 high explosive and 23,800 incendiary bombs on that city.ª In addition the city was shelled by the biggest caliber German guns. On 23-24 August 1942, six hundred German bombers raided Stalingrad. Losses in civilian lives are quoted as 40,000.95 However this figure appears very high and, as the orig-  200 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II inal Warsaw, Rotterdam, and Belgrade accounts, may be based on unconfirmed media reports. The USSR did not publish any figures on air-raid civilian losses. But civilian losses there must have been many. The raids on Sevastopol and Stalingrad can be termed tactical because both cities were in the path of the advancing German army. But the magnitude of them and the inherent losses of civilian lives make them atrocities. Also, if they were to be justifiable in accordance with the Hague Conventions, demands for surrender should have been issued first as before the Warsaw and Rotterdam raids. It became apparent to the German leaders that Russia could fight back. Before the advancing German army 1,500 fac- tories and 10 million workers of the industry west of the Ural mountains were relocated east of those mountains. Some relo- cated aircraft factories produced again only three weeks after they had been unloaded at their eastern destinations.96 Output of the Soviet aircraft factories rose steadily. By June 1944 the production reached 3,300 planes per month. The strength of the Red Air Force had climbed to over 24,000 machines, an overwhelming number over the Luftwaffe. There was also a steady flow of American made planes coming in via Alaska. Roosevelt, who had declared the United States the arsenal of the democracies, ordered these deliveries to a peoples democ- rac