f about ninety tons. One shell hitting Paris on Good Friday, 29 March 1918, killed eighty-eight worship- pers in the church of St. Gervais.50 French authorities asked the Germans through neutral channels to stop shelling during funeral services for these victims; the German military obliged. But in general they were jubilant about their achievements and had no qualms about them-after all, these shells were in retal- iation. In addition to the bombardment by the Krupp gun, Paris suffered a number of smaller night raids from January until September 1918. The purpose was the same as with the gun: to terrorize the French population. About a half million left the city.51 But neither the artillery shells, nor over four hundred bombs, cracked the morale of the citizens of Paris, let alone France. Allied endeavors to retaliate against the German attacks were not lacking. Although in the early stages they did not yet have suitable bombers, raids were flown against German cities. This caused a semi-official dispatch from Berlin in June 1917, warning Britain to relocate its population from the vicinity of strategic targets to avoid losses through German reprisal raids.52 After the measures taken by Churchill had succeeded in repulsing the Zeppelins, he then faced the Gothas. Churchill issued a report to Parliament that resulted in the appointment of South African Field Marshal Jan Smuts to head a committee to make recommendations on air defense of the homelands and aerial operations in general. The outcome of the commit- tee meetings was that by late 1917 the Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Air Service were combined in the Royal Air Force and put under the jurisdiction of a new Air Ministry. The move was strongly opposed by the army and the navy in general, and by Haig, Trenchard, and Jellicoe, the Home Fleet commander, in particular. They all felt that the airplane's pri- mary role was in support of land and sea operations. The Smuts Committee thought differently and c