ondemning the Axis grabs of European real estate. Secret staff talks were started with Britain after the fall of France. Three senior U.S. officers visited Bomber Command in August. 109 Capital Royal Navy ships were refitted in American east coast shipyards, a clear breach of neutrality. Over 30,000 British children were brought to the United States to be safe from German bombs. In December 1940 Henry Morgenthau informed the U.S. president that Britain was rapidly running out of cash. There would be no money, no arms deliveries, and Axis victory was rising on the horizon. With no deliveries, U.S. industry would decline, unemployment rise, and American shores would be the next to be attacked. The answer was Lend-Lease, brilliant- ly pushed through Congress. Britain could breathe easy, sup- port, both material and psychological, was increasing. Roosevelt sent envoys to Churchill with secret messages prom- ising help. When the British admiralty wanted to lease U.S. ships to transport troops to the North African theater, the U.S. govern- ment graciously provided U.S. navy ships at no charge.110 On 7 April 1941 all German and Italian ships in U.S. ports were seized to prevent any acts of sabotage. On 11 April 1941 the U.S. security zone was extended to twenty-six degrees west thus bringing almost the whole of the Atlantic from west of Iceland and the Azores under the control of the U.S. Navy.11 No official announcement was made to the Axis Powers causing confrontations between German submarines and the U.S. Navy with the loss of ships and men. After U.S. and British staff talks in March 1941 and the extension of the U.S. security zone, the U.S. Navy took over the guarding of convoys. The U.S. craft operated out of the new bases the United States had acquired from Britain from Newfoundland to the Caribbean  206 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II for the delivery of fifty old U.S. Navy destroyers. All of these operations had to be done clandestinely because they wer