ea bombing in World War I. On a purely juridical assessment this can be said to be true. But from their point of view, the German supreme command and reluctantly the German government argued that the bombing was in retaliation for the British naval blockade, which they considered illegal. Strictly speaking, the blockade was not ille- gal. The Germans also countered with the U-boat campaign, which in the beginning was conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Conventions of Naval Warfare. In turn the British admiralty considered the submarine campaign com- pletely illegal and, therefore, stepped up the blockade. Further arguments proffered in favor of German bombard- ment were that any city to be protected under Article 25 had to have no military installations and defenses at all; not even any infrastructure that served to supply the armed forces. Article 25 became unworkable and the Germans felt justified in bombing, which in turn caused the formation of the RAF Independent Air Force bombing German cities in retaliation. In World War I the term "home front" became popular. It meant that whole nations were at war and not only the armed forces. If the term home front was meant as a psychological effect to make civilians feel important in the conduct of the war, it backfired. The hinterland now also became de facto a military front. To fight this front the bomber proved the ideal weapon. Once the home front was brought into the conduct of war, British/American military planners had a further incentive for bombing. International experts maintain that there are two schools of thought on warfare: The Continental one-army against army; and the U.S./UK one-people against people.2 The latter is based on historical developments that forced Britain to maintain its empire against indigenous people with  326 To DESTROY A CITY STRATEGIC BOMBING AND INTERNATIONAL LAW armies much inferior in numbers to what the insurgents could muster. Fighting the enemy's people by whatev