calling for intensified bomber and fighter raids on all German urban areas, big and small, to finally convince the population that the war was lost and that the German government should be forced to give up. Berlin was clouded over and the loads were discharged on inaccurate radar readings. There was material damage and a death toll of 25,000 Berliners. As a sequel General Marshall personally ordered a raid on Munich in southern Germany to show that no place could be a haven for the millions of refugees streaming west ahead of the advancing Russian armies. The fighter strafing increased and victims of raids on trains near Würzburg were buried in the municipal cemetery. Passenger trains were attacked at Winterhausen on 13 January; Marktbreit and Seligenstadt on 15 January, killing fifty people in the train at Marktbreit and an unknown but sizeable num- ber at Seligenstadt. The Gemünden railway station was destroyed on 30 January. On 2 March fighters dived down to shoot at farmers in the fields.244 All these places are located within a twenty kilometer radius of Würzburg. The war and its victims were brought to Würzburg. Cities within one hundred kilometers of Würzburg, such as Aschaffenburg, Frankfurt, and Nürnberg had been damaged heavily. A new list of the Combined Strategic Target Committee of 8 February put Berlin and Dresden in the first two places.245 Since the Americans had blasted Berlin already, Harris selected the second city and ordered a double raid on Dresden for 13-14 February. Many books have been written about this operation, the details and the sufferings, the lead-up and the aftermath, including the USAAF participation in them.246 The USAAF came the next day and bombed the smoking ruins and the parks where the survivors had sought refuge. The biggest horror of these raids were the attacks of the Eighth USAAF fighter bombers. They strafed people in the open who had escaped to the Elbwiesen, the flats of the Elbe River passing  254 To DESTROY A CITY B