dia of increasing terror raids on inno- cent citizens and villages. Goebbels was walking a tightrope. To call the British, and Churchill in particular, war criminals-as he did-he had to admit that the bombers were coming through and that German antiaircraft defenses could not prevent them. The facts were that, for instance, on a raid on Nürnberg on 12- 13 October 1941 for which 152 aircraft were dispatched, only a few bombs fell on the city killing one person. But villages from ten to ninety-five miles away from Nürnberg were bombed; villages of no strategic significance and obviously attacked by aircraft lost or misguided by German countermeasures. 103 The losses to the German civilians were by that time not as accidental and incidental as the British public was made to believe through their press. On 9 July 1941 Peirse, the Bomber Command chief, had received instructions from the Air Ministry to attack the transportation system and from then on. in addition, the morale of the civilian population.104 In other words, to the many target systems identified in Western War Plans before 1939, morale of the population was added as a destroyable entity. If it cracked because of human and materi- al losses the citizens would force the German government's hand. There is, of course, one basic fallacy in this assumption- the more people you kill the fewer there are to force an end to hostilities. Although British morale did not crack during the Blitz, the Air Ministry thought German morale would. If one assumes from this attitude that the British government consid- ered its people superior, one must not forget that in World War I German morale did crack. After about 700,000 people had starved to death because of the naval blockade, revolts broke out in November 1918 and forced the German government to call for an armistice. Depending on the weather and many other circumstances, such as bomber crew experience, the German civilian losses were mounting. Hamburg suffered eight dea