ive bomber fleets. Much research went into producing statistics, from numbers of inhabitants to distances from bomber bases, significance for the German war effort, and all intelligence which had an impact on implementing the instruc- tions from the Air Ministry in London and the chief of staff in Washington on the conduct of the bomber offensive. For each significant German city the information coming to the Target Committee included lists of industrial, commercial, and infrastructure installations. For Würzburg it gave unbe- lievable details but on the other hand also irrelevant informa- tion and missed some very important sites. The list prepared by the Ministry of Economic Warfare (MEW), a section of the Foreign Office, makes no mention of the Star Werke, the small ball-bearing plant relocated from Schweinfurt. It says nothing about the submarine hull sections fabricated by Noell AG, but it lists the Eugen Flurschütz shop, where five ladies in a very restricted location were knitting sweaters. It also lists W.  TO DESTROY A CITY WÜRZBURG AS TARGET 26 Stecher, a tin smith of small trade shop proportions.4 It looks as if someone had consulted a telephone directory and interpreted the listings and the advertising. It mentions that there were flour mills. There were none at that time to the best of my knowl- edge. Yet the report fails to list the new inland harbor. There was a medium-size paper converting plant and several fair- size car and truck repair shops, which would have qualified for the MEW list. Since the report goes down to mini-enterprises, it left out dozens of them, including one of my father's businesses, a bookbinding and printing shop employing five people (sometimes this number increased to six when I had misbe- haved as a boy and as punishment had to work there). The MEW report classified infrastructure and commercial / industrial targets into fourteen categories. The highest rating was given to transportation targets and the lowest to food- stuff