mates of German civilians killed vary con- siderably. They range from 410,000, to 570,000, to 800,000.9 In Japan the toll was considerably over 200,000 people killed by the fire raids (nobody knows the exact number) and 112,000 by the atomic bombs.10 These "incidental losses," as Portal called them, cost the loss of 46,268 RAF bomber crew in action11 and 161,000 of USAAF bomber crew in Europe and the Far East.12 The bomber commanders were proud of the results. Many wrote their memoirs, such as Harris and LeMay, after the war and claimed that without their efforts World War II could not have been won by the Allies. They were proud that they had done their duty. In Europe the USAAF even showed off the results to their ground crews who had serviced the bombers in Britain. Over 30,000 ground personnel were flown over Europe to see for themselves what bombing had done.13 Whether the bomber leaders were war criminals is a moot question. The British historian Spaight thinks it is the bombed and not the bombers who will be the judges of whether bomb- ing is justified.14 A telling aspect of how bombing has been judged is Churchill's treatment of the subject in his six volume The Second World War. He devotes a mere fourteen pages to the longest military campaign of the war, which consumed dispro- portional human, financial, and economic resources. Würzburg was bombed because the bombing offensive had long ago become an end in itself, with its own momentum, its own purpose, devoid of tactical or strategic value, indifferent to the needless suffering and destruction it caused. In summarizing the bombing between 1914 and 1945, one can say that the losses and destruction were unnecessary and do not represent a leaf of honor in the annals of mankind. They cannot be excused. The best one can do so many years after the wars is to analyze and assess them, dispatch them to history, and hope and pray that they will never happen again. BIBLIOGRAPHY Allen, George. Images of the Spanish C