e insupportable.214 In interviews after the war Speer said that had oil been persist- ently attacked, presumably during the entire war (not only from late 1944 onward), Germany would have been rendered powerless. As it happened, because the refineries were not bombed consistently, German fuel production increased four- fold between 1939 and the end of 1944.215 But fuel also had to be transported to the fronts. Transpor- tation was the Achilles heel of the German war effort. It took about one freight train per day with fifty cars with twenty tons capacity each to supply a fighting German army division. In June 1941, Germany and its allies marched 130 divisions into USSR territory; for the army alone 130 trains per day had to reach the fighting front. The further the German army advanced the longer the turnaround of these trains; if they came back at all. Another problem the German Reichsbahn faced in Russia was the different track gauge. The Russian gauge is wider than the Central European gauge. If, as hap- pened, the rail bed was narrowed to make German trains run, there were numerous operating problems in stations and mar- shalling yards. If the rails were left as they were, all goods had to be transferred to captured railway stock. The supply of the Eastern Front amounted to a huge transport problem. This was no secret and openly advertised by banners at every railway station in the Reich saying in huge letters: "Räder müssen rollen für den Sieg." ("Wheels must be turning for victory.") In the Reich, coal had to be transported to power genera- tion plants. Hard and brown coal generated 80 percent of German power. Coal was needed to make iron and steel from the iron ores shipped in from Sweden, France, and Spain. It took 115 tons of coal to produce one heavy tank and six tons to distill one ton of gasoline.216 As for oil, after the loss of the Romanian fields at Ploesti, Germany depended entirely on  246 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II synthetic fuel oil