re killed. After Rostock, Bath was hit, but then again the Luftwaffe losses were too high. What has been called the (German) Baedeker Raids were abandoned. Britain could sleep quietly again. On 22 September 1942 the RAF staff issued a report entitled "The Development and Employment of the Heavy Bomber Force."130 By deduction of the results of the survey done by Professor Zuckerman and including the Coventry raid, the authors of this blueprint for applying "attack on morale" on the German civilians, came to the following conclusions: 42 German towns, each with 100,000 inhabitants or more, must be destroyed. The 42 towns are inhabited by 15 million people. One ton of bombs is required for each 800 people. Each town must be attacked once per month over a six month period. 4,000 bombers will be required to perform this task. Allowing for 25 percent of bombers hitting the target, 75,000 tons of explosives will have to be dropped monthly. At the end of this period the towns will be destroyed beyond recovery. Germany will cease to function both militarily and on a civil- ian level. The people will rebel. The paper endorsed the attack on morale as the weakest point in the German war machine, but thoughtfully admits in paragraph four that "attack on morale is not a matter of pure killing."-(Would the Germans have known that, it would have given them great comfort.)-At the end of paragraph four the air staff justified their recommendations by referring to the  214 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II results obtained in "the small wars in which the Air Force has been continuously engaged." The paper states the war could be over in six months. No landings on the Continent would be needed. Any other impli- cations about the Russians moving into Europe or the Americans coming to help is not mentioned but must have been in the minds of the politicians. This paper proves many historians incorrect who blame Harris for the ensuing slaughter. It was the air staff headed by its c