and the main targets. Under paragraph 4.a.(1) it listed "Possible Lines of Action":140 a-Disruption of a major portion of the electric power system of Germany b-Disruption of the German transportation system c-Destruction of the German oil and petroleum system d-Undermining of German morale by air attack of civil concentrations To leave no doubt what the authors meant by item d above they had said in paragraph 3.d: "As German morale begins to crack, area bombing of civil concentrations may be effective." Such were the recommendations. Nobody can have any argu- ment with items a to c above. As regards paragraphs 3.d and 4.a.(1).d one may ask in general whatever happened to the 217 chivalrous American attitude never to hit a man when he is down and, in particular, how do these paragraphs correspond with Roosevelt's telegram of 1 September 1939? In August 1942 Roosevelt had requested an update of the plan and the result became AWPD-42. It specified 154 targets to be destroyed and keep destroyed. Airplane assembly plants, aluminum, and magnesium had been added to the original plan. A total of 6,834 U.S. bombers stationed in the United Kingdom and the Near East would be required to fly a total of 66,045 sorties. As in the Air Ministry papers, victory was fore- cast six months after the plan was started. 1943: THE BOMBERS ARE COMING Next followed the Casablanca Conference in January 1943. Roosevelt and all his senior army and navy officers were there, including General Spaatz, the commander of the Eighth USAAF. Churchill was there with Portal, among others, but Harris was not invited. The conference which was about plan- ning general operations, had two special aspects which affect- ed German morale. During a press conference Roosevelt pur- posely or inadvertently said that the Axis Powers would have to surrender unconditionally. This put wind into the sails of Goebbels who was whipping up German morale in light of the recent military setbacks everywhere. The other aspect