ch (the Holy Roman Empire); there was Italy, the fellow new kid on the block; and there was the Ottoman Empire, beset from all sides and termi-  96 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR I nally ill. With the emerging Italians, Germany and Austria- Hungary formed the Triple Alliance and signed three agree- ments between 1902 and 1912. The basic principal of the alliance was mutual assistance in the event of war. What also annoyed Germany's fellow great powers were its economic, social, and scientific achievements during this period. At the turn of the nineteenth century, the German state had an agrarian economy and were no threat to the countries that were undergoing the industrial revolution and the benefits that came with it. As an example, when Mr. Koenig was estah. lishing his printing press factory in Würzburg in 1818 he could not find any qualified mechanical tradesmen.12 Even Ger- many's infrastructure such as railways was, until 1870, poorly developed and only oriented to the needs of the individual principalities. After 1871 there was a dramatic change Industries sprang up and their products conquered foreign markets because their quality was good and the cost less. By 1914 the Ruhr Valley produced more steel than Britain, and Krupp steel was on a par with, maybe even better than Sheffield steel. Social progress had been made and the population expand- ed and lived longer. Within the confines of Central Europe. population pressure was building up. Education had improved and, as a result, achievements in medicine, science, and tech- nology were on a par with any in the neighboring countries. As we have seen, Lord Cherwell, Churchill's World War II scientif- ic advisor, was sent to Germany for his education. In order to protect its trade and commerce, Germany took steps to build up military power. The Prussian/German armies that had defeated France in 1871 were already well-organized units. A German navy did not yet exist. With the founding of the Second Reic