in the end it was the masses of the Soviet men and materials which forced Finland to sue for peace. It lost large tracts of land and nobody had come to its help. British planning under Churchill, then the first sealord, was considering invading northern Norway and advancing through Sweden to help Finland. Another plan the Western Allies considered was to bomb the oil fields at Baku from British bases in Iraq. Neither plan was implemented. There was only assistance from coun- tries such as Sweden and Italy in the form of volunteers and war materials. Germany remained neutral and held up a ship- ment of Italian planes at the port of Stettin.7 The Red Air Force did not lose time in showing that it had bombers. On the first day of the conflict it flew a bombing raid on Helsinki from its recently acquired base on the Estonian island of Saremaa.8 Before long there were many raids on more Finnish towns, ports, and railways. Eventually the USSR deployed 2,500 planes that dropped 7,500 tons of high explo- sive bombs and incendiaries. Against this stood a minuscule Finnish air force of less than 100 planes, later augmented by foreign purchases and help to about 250. Russian losses were between 750 and 900 aircraft, whereas Finnish losses amount- ed to about 70.9 The Red Air Force flew a total of eight hundred raids on Finnish towns and villages. Civilian losses were 956 killed and 1,850 wounded. The cities with the heaviest losses were Helsinki and Viipuri with ninety-seven and sixty citizens killed respectively.10 Bombing and war had come together again at the expense of e of innocent civilians. Germany's strict stance of neutrality in the Winter War has left a question mark. Why did Hitler and his foreign minister, Ribbentrop, not scheme to have Britain and France declare war on Russia? Germany's professed reluctance to fight the West, with a small dose of skillful diplomacy could have caused his- tory to take a different course. Unfortunately, Britain and France not only l