lace.236 The Swedish government protested fre- quently in London but let it be known that this was just a rou- tine matter and should not be taken too seriously. Sweden had a difficult position to maintain its neutrality. In 1940-41 the Germans forced it to let their troops pass through its territory on their way to Norway and Finland. On the economic front Sweden did not want to lose its market in Germany for ball- bearings and iron ore. Therefore, there was the attempt to make concessions in both directions, although with the decline of German fortunes it became clear that the Western Allies received more favors. After the war, RAF Marshals Tedder and Harris were sent to Sweden to express the RAF's gratitude for Sweden's help in letting the bombers fly part of their routes unmolested by flak and nightfighters over neutral territory.237 Sweden's help went so far as to allow the installation of air nav- igation wireless stations in the British consulate at Malmö.238 Berlin protested in Stockholm that Sweden did not enforce its neutrality, but these protests were also halfhearted because Germany did not wish to lose the ball-bearings and high-grade iron ore. On occasion Sweden did attempt to enforce its neutrality. During the entire war eleven German, six British, and two U.S. warplanes were shot down when it was not clear whether they might attack Swedish towns.239 On the other hand, Sweden accepted many Allied bombers which took refuge from pursu- ing German fighters or were too damaged to return to their bases in the United Kingdom. The Swedish Defense Staff went as far as to send instructions to the Air Ministry on how to approach Sweden for emergency landings.240 By July 1944 a total of ninety-four Eighth USAAF bombers had landed in Sweden and were interned.241 Many of the USAAF and RAF crews were allowed to return to Britain, whereas others were interned and maintained their planes, which were returned after the war to their respective countries. Switzerland su