raid had proven their worth, but more so by faulty planning of Combined Operations than by the strength of the fortifications. Many a Canadian soldier paid the ultimate price for this folly. The raid proved that, without a prior bom- bardment of the shore defense and cutting of lines for rein- forcements, a landing was at best doubtful. After landings in Italy an investigation was launched to evaluate their success. To nobody's surprise it was found that Professor Zuckerman's plan to smash the Italian railway sys- tem was the main factor.184 A similar plan of destruction of coastal defense and railway centers in France and Belgium was submitted to General Eisenhower, by that time the supreme commander of allied forces in Europe and his deputy, Air Marshal Tedder. Both endorsed it wholeheartedly based on the Italian experience. The instruments to carry out these attacks were to be the U.S. and British strategic bombers. But there a long drawn out fight started. The bomber leaders, Harris more than Spaatz, objected violently and listed numerous argu- ments. The list included the fact that their forces were not trained for precision bombing, that Bomber Command had no experience in the necessary daylight operations, that there would be countless deaths among French and Belgian civil- ians, and so on. These circles were supported by the Air Ministry, the prime minister and the British Cabinet, including scientists such as Lord Cherwell. The argument was won by Eisenhower/Tedder and in April 1944 Bomber Command under Harris and the Eighth USAAF under Doolittle were placed under Tedder who issued orders as to which targets were to be destroyed. What followed until 6 June, the date of the Normandy landings, was a suc- cessful destruction of the Belgian and French railway systems. Hundreds of raids were flown day and night against railway yards, from Orléans to Lille and as far east as Aachen in 235 Germany. Despite little Luftwaffe resistance, many raids were as inaccurate