a government."11 BOMBING AND REARMAMENT In Articles 8 and 9 of its constitution the League of Nations recognized the need for disarmament. This objective came as a direct result of the fourth of Wilson's Fourteen Points in which he proposed reduction of armed forces to the lowest 131 level consistent with domestic safety. Domestic safety meant defense and by definition eliminated offensive actions. Having the Covenant of the League in the Châteaux Treaties, and Articles 8 and 9 in the League Constitution gave the Central Powers the assurance that they would not be alone in disarming. The preamble of Part V of the Versailles Treaty specifically indicates that.12 Allied Control Commissions traveled the width and breadth of the loser countries to ensure that they were in com- pliance with disarmament. But soon, either because they mis- trusted each other or they felt the need to codify peace and armaments, conferences were called among the victors to establish ranks. Britain, with its world-spanning navy, was intent not to lose its preeminent status at sea. The 1921-1922 Washington Naval Conference, and later conferences in London on the same subject, set the numbers and sizes of cap- ital ships Britain, France, Italy, Japan, and the United States could have. At the Washington Conference the participating governments recognized that the threat of aerial war still exist- ed and that some codes and limitations had to be set up for its conduct. The participants of the conference condemned aerial warfare, but could not agree on outlawing it. Therefore, a Committee of Jurists was established to draft rules, which would then be ratified. The committee met in The Hague on 11 December 1922, and by 6 February 1923 a proposal for the con- duct of aerial warfare containing sixty-two articles was ready. Article 17 stated that the 1907 Hague Convention on Maritime War would also apply to aerial warfare. That meant no bom- bardment of cities was allowed. Article 22 forbade aerial bo