er wanted the British troops to escape because he still hoped for a peace settlement with London. The facts are that the German army halted its attack, that the Luftwaffe did considerable damage to the troops, and not least to the city of Dunkirk. Most important, the BEF escaped, although leaving all its equipment behind. While the campaign in the West was unfolding, RAF Bomber Command flew an ever-increasing number of strategic raids against targets in Germany. Reports indicate that most crews bombed their assigned targets of railway yards, troop assemblies, oil refineries, etc .; so the RAF files in the Public Record Office, London, state. The German reports of the time talk about little damage, bombs dropped on open cities and far away from any legitimate targets. The obvious facts are that Bomber Command had at the time only medium bombers, whose crews could locate their targets only with great difficul- ties at night and even in the few daylight raids still being flown. There was little damage in Germany, although a num- ber of civilians were killed. The German leadership ignored the raids, but the population began referring to the supreme com- mander of the Luftwaffe as Hermann Maier. France, Britain's suffering ally, objected vehemently to the RAF campaign against Germany. Gamelin, the French supreme warlord, was afraid of German retaliation against French cities. L'Armée de l'Air was in no position to defend its homeland. From its leading position after World War I it had deteriorated by the early 1930s to an obsolete force. In August 1939 it had only 575 fighters and 300 bombers and many of them were sta- tioned overseas.37 French industry and orders from the United  O DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 181 States doubled that number by June 1940 because the active replenishment program started in 1935 by nationalizing the aircraft industry was just coming into full swing.38 But the fall of France could not be prevented. The Luftwaffe had bombed the ind