ondon.71 It never had, but that was a fine point which a man like Churchill could ignore when it came to condoning raids on the Eternal City. By early 1941 the mutual bombing campaigns were at a crossroad. The RAF was increasing in strength and the Luftwaffe was declining. In Britain the long-range planning for an effective bomber force became reality. The four-engine Halifaxes, Stirlings, and later the potent Lancasters began to arrive in numbers. The British Commonwealth Air Training Plan, initiated in Canada at the beginning of the war, provided the necessary crews. There was a basic difference in theory of the needs of the respective armed forces to win the war. The personnel strength of the British army was 2.9 times that of the air force. The figure for the German army was 4.5 times. Britain was to win the war through a strong air force. Germany, with its blitzkrieg theories, was to win the war through its army with the Luftwaffe playing a supporting role. National mobilization of all resources commenced in Britain the moment war started. Big and small industrial plants were converted to aircraft production. Large car manufacturers switched to aero engines. Rolls Royce to this day produces air- craft engines. Modern mass production methods were employed, women were drafted into the industry, and the whole effort was put under Lord Beaverbrook, the press baron and friend of Churchill, who became head of the newly formed Ministry of Aircraft Production. From a delivery of 7,940 air- craft in 1939 the output of the United Kingdom based industry alone, i.e. without deliveries from the United States and Canada, rose to 15,000 in 1940, 20,000 in 1941, and leveled off at an annual production of 26,000 in 1944. A similar steep increase occurred in the fabrication of aero engines.72 Technical development was also pushed. The lack of prop- er navigational equipment was overcome with systems such as  192 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 193 Gee and H2S which all