USAAF airmen were killed by a com- mando at Ruppertshütten near Lohr am Main in full view of the civilian population. On 29 September 1944 another USAAF airman was killed by a commando near Bad Neustadt/Saale.9 There were numerous other killings and lynchings of USAAF and RAF stranded flyers all over Germany. Most of them were dealt with after the war in trials which saw many of the perpe- trators punished, many with the death penalty. If one argues that the killing of shot-down air crew was an excusable reaction of enraged citizens, one has to take the posi- tion that one crime does not condone a second one. Bombing  316 To DESTROY A CITY THE VICTIMS AND THEIR TREATMENT 317 and, particularly strafing civilians, irrespective of the interpre- tations of international law, is a crime. The men who did it, although following orders as soldiers, were placed in an unten- able position by their superiors. When they were in distress they were on their own and at the mercy of their captors. The captors had orders from their superiors to execute the prison- ers. It left the executioners in conflict with humanitarian law and they too paid a price for following orders. Another aspect of victimizing the bombers is the obstruc- tion of rescue operations. During the battle of Britain and the London Blitz in 1940-41 the Luftwaffe had a number of obso- lete twin-engine seaplanes operating from the French Channel coast to pick up downed flyers and navy personnel, friend and foe alike. They were clearly marked with red crosses on white fields similar to the field ambulances of the fighting armies. The German navy had sixty-four small vessels with similar markings and for the same purpose. The German request through the International Red Cross to respect these craft was turned down by Britain.10 Between June and December 1940, the German rescue planes alone saved the lives of 197 souls, 78 of whom were enemy personnel.11 As a sign of radicalization of the war, already at this early sta