, and enlisted in the Royal Flying Corps. By January 1916, Second Lieutenant Arthur T. Harris was a qualified pilot and assigned to a squadron chasing the Zeppelins on their raids over England. In 1917 he was posted to France. By 1918 he was back  76 To DESTROY A CITY THE BOMBER PRACTITIONERS in England, by now a major, to hunt the German bombers. After the war Harris was not demobilized but given a perma- nent commission. There followed service in India, where he gained his first experience in bombing tribes on the Northwest Frontier. The army restricted that activity by starving the few RAF squadrons in India for funds, spare parts, and recognition as a pacifying force. Harris was so enraged that he threatened to resign. But Salmond had been sent to India to review the sit- uation and convinced Harris to come with him to Mesopo- tamia to help quell the Turkish-led insurrections there. His biographer praises his exploits in Iraq, which laid the founda- tions for Harris's later actions in World War II.15 By 1924 Harris was back in Britain to attend first the Army Senior Officers School at Sheerness and then to continue his career as commander of RAF units. In 1927 he enrolled at the Army Staff College at Camberley. There followed more post- ings as commanding officer. He was to return to Iraq to per- form similar duties as in 1922-23, but objected and through his normal stubborn persistence avoided a posting that he felt would not further his career. He stayed in Britain commanding a flying boat squadron before being posted to the Air Ministry. From July 1933 onward he worked in the Directorate of Operations and Intelligence. He was involved in the prepara- tion of reports that detailed the defense of the empire against Germany, for a war which appeared likely to happen soon. Four reports were produced and by 1936, based on an "Appreciation of the Situation in the Event of War against Germany in 1939," the government approved the creation of a strategic bomber force