ain.10 Between June and December 1940, the German rescue planes alone saved the lives of 197 souls, 78 of whom were enemy personnel.11 As a sign of radicalization of the war, already at this early stage, one can read in Churchill's The Second World War that the War Cabinet ordered the shoot- ing down or forcing down of all German sea rescue planes clearly marked with the Red Cross insignia. The Germans protested. Churchill's answer was that there was no provision in the Conventions for this type of humane effort.12 The pre- tense was that these aircraft were also used for reconnaissance, although one cannot imagine that they flew beyond the English Channel coast in search of victims. It was not until 1949 that the gap in the Geneva Conventions was closed and rescue aircraft were given the same status as field ambulances.13 By the end of World War II, after the Dresden raids, the threat to captured flyers assumed unheard-of proportions. Hitler had ordered the shooting of ten thousand Allied POW airmen as a reprisal.14 Ribbentrop dissuaded him and the Stalag Luft III shootings remain the worst crime in this respect. Long before World War II, most countries in Europe had made motions to set up procedures to help the civilian victims of an air raid. But only in Britain and Germany were measures in place when the war began. Even there, the authorities went through a steep learning curve when real action was required. In Britain the Ministry of Health was responsible for treat- ing the dead and the wounded. There had been planning before the war and calculations were made on the number of casualties to be expected. The Committee of Imperial Defence estimated in 1937 that there would be 1.8 million casualties, one third of them fatal, in the first two months of a new war. The figures were based on fifty casualties per ton of bombs, i.e. 36,000 tons of bombs were expected to be dropped or 600 tons per day.15 The majority of the damage was expected in London. To cope with th