that most dwellings were destroyed by high-explosive bombs rather than fire. This may have been the case, but probably because the Luftwaffe hadn't concentrated on incendiaries during its raids. Bomber Command later found that the destructive force of firestorms 65 far exceeded its expectations, with Hamburg, Dresden, and Würzburg as fiery examples. Even better proof of the effect of firestorms were the results of the Twentieth U.S. Air Force raids on Japan from March 1945 until the end of World War II. But the planning of the Japanese raids was not based on theory, rather on what General Curtis LeMay, the U.S. commander, had seen the RAF achieve in Europe. In one respect, Lord Zuckerman was absolutely correct and it would have been to the benefit of friend and foe alike if all the responsible air force commanders had concentrated the bombing campaign on transport targets. Zuckerman, as advi- sor to Air Marshal Tedder, had succeeded in having the Allied bomber forces destroy the railway system prior to landings in Sicily and the mainland of Italy. Similarly, prior to the Normandy landings the western European railway system was devastated to make it unusable for German troop move- ments. The Italian landings and the ensuing campaign were a success as railway traffic came to a complete halt.20 The Normandy landings were a success, and once the bomber lead- ers reluctantly agreed to attack the German transport system from January 1945 onward, German resistance collapsed. Although, even here there is a caveat: The losses of civilians living next to these transportation targets were considerable. Many people in France and Belgium lost their lives at the hands of their allies. After the war Lord Zuckerman was put in charge of the sci- entific part of the British Bombing Survey. As he points out in his book, the survey proved that the bombing offensive was not the determining factor in the defeat of Germany. On the contrary, Lord Zuckerman shows that if his recommendation