id. But bombers used as long-range artillery caused the devastation, at the very beginning of another great European war, and that aroused world opinion and damned the Luftwaffe into infamy. Exact casualty figures have never been established. Some sources claim that 26,000 people were buried in the rubble after the surrender of the city.5 Considering the tonnage dropped and that the majority of bombs were delivered by dive- bombers, one is inclined to question this figure. Whatever the casualty rate, civilians were killed by aerial bombs. The dread- ed threat had become a reality. The Warsaw raid became the first stepping-stone to the bombing war. It was a tactical raid and not a strategic one. The world did not yet make a distinc- tion of that kind. As in World War I, the Huns had again thrown the first bomb. The invasion of Poland was a masterpiece of blitzkrieg as envisaged by the German military planners. It proved that an air force must support army operations. Poland was conquered in three weeks. But it was not only the Wehrmacht that occu- pied Poland. The USSR invaded Poland from the east on 17 September. Theoretically, Britain and France should have declared war on the USSR, since they had obligated themselves to guarantee Polish borders in spring 1939 and entered into a state of war with Germany to fulfill that commitment. They did not. Taking on two dictatorships at the same time was obviously too much. Since there were already tensions with the Japanese, declaring war on the USSR would have fortified the Berlin-  168 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 169 Tokyo Axis by adding a solid land bridge in between. Although the Japanese and the Russians did not see eye to eye, there had been Soviet support for China since 1937 and a minor undeclared war between the two of them in the Far East. After all the posturing of the Japanese army in eastern China, the Soviets established a bomber force in Eastern Siberia that was ready to attack Tokyo if necessary