avy loss of life. Filling the airships with heli- um would have been the answer, but helium was only avail- able in commercial quantities in the United States, and sale of 155 such a strategic commodity to Nazi Germany did not come about. It was the end of the "Zepps," and the military and com- mercial benefits they had once represented. The German War Ministry soldiered on. The planning and secret scheming to create a Luftwaffe continued. Specifi- cations were issued for a night bomber to carry a 1.5-ton bomb load.91 The whole planning operation was disguised within a Luftschutzamt (Civil Defense Department).92 All officers and soldiers wore civilian clothes, particularly the ones at the German flying schools and the staff on their way to the Russian training centers. The monies for the Luftwaffe came from the army budget. When later, in the early 1930s, not enough could be clandestinely diverted, the Reichswehr- minister requested money from the budget of the Transport Ministry, under the pretext that the funds were to be used for commercial aviation.93 When Hitler became chancellor on 30 January 1933, and three days later appointed Hermann Göring Reichskommissar für Luftfahrt, the creation of the Luftwaffe was all devised and ready to roll; and speed was of the essence. It had to be done very secretly because there was still lip service being paid to the Versailles Treaty and, more important, the Geneva Disarmament Conference was going on. German aircraft manufacturers, who had struggled along the path of survival since 1918, were suddenly being given funds and orders. The situation in the aircraft industry after the war had seemed hopeless. The Versailles Treaty outlawed production of military planes even for export, and the con- struction of commercial aircraft was permitted only after 1926. Many of the manufacturers folded, whereas others established foreign subsidiaries such as Junkers in Russia, Dornier in Italy, and Heinkel in Sweden.94 After 1933 the indus