ertainly a step down from the most pres- tigious post of commander-in-chief of the bombers. The plan- ners at the Air Ministry could not blame themselves for not having supplied the RAF with modern navigational equip- ment, for giving them bombers that had no defense against fighters shooting from below and machine guns of inferior cal- iber, and for implementing the Trenchard Doctrine with unsuitable planes. The decision to continue bombing and put it in the hands of a forceful leader had several reasons. The Allied armies were in no position yet to land on the Continent and fight the Axis armies. It was feared that there would be a repeat of the trench warfare of 1914 to 1918 as a result of any assault in Western Europe. The USSR demanded such an assault as a relief on its front. Churchill sent messages to Stalin assuring him that the attack would come but that in the meantime Germany would suffer a bombardment unseen before. The messages made it clear that not only would the German war effort be reduced, but that the people living around these installations were to suf- fer from the Allied bombs. Similar messages went to Roosevelt whose reactions to bombing civilians are not recorded. 209 From the prime minister via the Air Ministry, Bomber Command was given clear instructions. Since precision bomb- ing had not worked day or night, area bombing was to replace it. As Harris interpreted it: In order to destroy something you have to destroy everything.114 The air staff pretended that area bombing was a temporary measure until experience and tech- nical means would allow return to precision bombing.115 In the meantime many documents and statements were issued to convince everybody that an attack on morale would win the war. On 14 February 1942 Bottomley, who had become the scribe of the Air Council, had instructed Bomber Command in Bombing Directive No. 22 to focus operations on the morale of the enemy and in particular on the industrial worker.116 The directive list