3 I kill thousands of people every night. [To a police officer who had admonished him that his speeding might kill some- body.]144 In normal warfare practise, in besieged cities, if they did not surrender, every living thing in them was in the end put to the sword. 145 The latter statement puts Harris into the category of field commanders of the Middle Ages. Yet Harris first of all believed that area bombing with him in charge would end the war. He had the ear and encouragement of Churchill whom he often visited at Chequers, the prime minister's country home not far from High Wycombe, the Bomber Command headquarters. And lastly, Portal was all for area bombing, although, like a weather vane, he changed direction a few times, depending on the political winds. Under the circumstances, the RAF bomber offensive con- tinued at night. When Harris took over in February 1942 he laid on missions with up to 120 mostly medium-size bombers. Many cities in the Ruhr and at the German coast were bombed Next, the fire-raising technique was developed because it was easier to burn a city than to blow it up.146 The Germans consid- ered the Lübeck and Rostock raids as the first real terror raids. Forces of 234 and 161 aircraft were sent to Lübeck and Rostock respectively. Since they were harbor cities, they were easy to find and Harris sunned himself in the success of the missions. The one-thousand bomber raid on Cologne on 30-31 May 1942 was a bit of a stunt because Harris had to borrow planes from Coastal Command and the training units to rake up that num- ber. Despite the references to this raid in the Portal paper dis- cussed earlier, the results were much smaller than the RAF thought. Nevertheless, when news reached Göring of the dam- age and the number of aircraft involved, he refused to believe that such a raid could be flown. The next one-thousand bomber raids on Essen and Bremen were failures because, as before, the targets could not be identified. Instead the bombers unloaded