July 1932 also sug-  134 To DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS gested the elimination of aerial bombing.15 The accounts of what exactly was proposed, discussed, and rejected vary between historians. The Germans were not to be granted equal rights. They walked out in autumn 1932. By December they were back after agreeing to a period of five years before Germany could increase its armed forces. The French disagreed and insisted on an eight-year period, which caused the Germans to walk out a second time on 14 October 1933. By that time Hitler was chan- cellor, and he declared Germany's exit from the League. The main factor that prevented the outlawing of bombing was a revised British proposal to permit bombing for policing in colonies and League-mandated areas. This provision was completely rejected, primarily by the United States, but also by Spain, Norway, the USSR, and Germany. It was to be either complete prohibition of bombing or none at all. After Germany had walked off, the conference stalled and world rearmament started. As an international body, the League was in decline from 1933 onward. Germany, which until that time is often referred to as the Weimar Republic, had honestly sought to broker dis- armament, together with an equal status for itself. Disarmament and bringing bombing under control became a dead issue. Hitler made a few proposals to limit the menace. Two times in 1935 he proposed limiting strategic bombing, and in 1936 he transmitted such a proposal directly to the British government.16 But nobody believed him because his strongman tactics, such as occupying the Rhineland in March 1935. denouncing the Versailles Treaty, and announcing that Germany was rearming in general and in the air in particular, scared everybody. The road to Armageddon was open. Everybody became afraid and started to rearm in earnest. Not all victorious nations had demobilized after the Great War. There were enough conflicts after "the war to end all wars" to keep the mili