ifying categories of targets.12 In the third and fourth category one could with some justification include Würzburg, because these categories included transport centers and jet fighter airfields. Jet fighters took off and landed from the Luftwaffe airfield at Würzburg. But by the activities as they were observed by the citizens, there could not have been a large number of these aircraft stationed there. At any rate Würzburg was not identified by name on this list. That changed on 8 February 1945, when a newly revised list was passed to Bomber Command in which the city is indi- cated as a secondary target in tenth place in the event that pri- mary targets could not be attacked for meteorological, techni- cal, or other reasons. The list contained seventeen cities ending with Ludwigshafen.13 This last place had been visited before and therefore obviously needed less attention. Now we were officially earmarked, albeit in the latter part of a long line-up. Simultaneously there was political pressure in the House of Commons in London. On 7 February 1945 Labour MP Edmund Purbrick asked when Würzburg, which together with a number of other German cities had been spared the experience of major attacks, would be given a les- son.14 He did not really have to ask. Bomber Command was well on its way to actually planning the attack.  2 WÜRZBURG - AREAS BOMBED Grombühlbrücke Veitshöchheimer Str. Röntgenring Haugerring Area designated by RAF Bomber Command Headquarters at High Wycombe for destruction THE RAIDS BEGIN Kaiserstraße Ludwigstraße Semmelstraße Juliuspromenade Theaterstraße Dreikronens Markt Rennweg Hofstr Zeller Straße Domstr. Dom Alte Mainbrucke Augustinerstr. Saalgasse Neubaustraße Main Ottostraße Sanderstraße Residenz Sieboldstr. Mainkai Sanderring Leistenstraße Ludwigsbrücke Veitshöchheim Oberdürrbach Areas actually bombed by RAF and USAAF Würzburg Unter dürrbach Zell RAF USAAF Hochberg Main Heidingsfeld W ürzburg had been bombed for the first time on 21 February 1942