d Tunis, much closer to potential tar- gets. It was the Northwest African Air Force (NWAAF) under General Spaatz. Command of the Eighth USAAF had been turned over to General Doolittle. Spaatz's bombers provided mostly tactical support for the invasion of Sicily and mainland Italy. As the Allies moved up the Italian peninsula, the NWAAF became the Twelfth USAAF, continuing its tactical role. Spaatz had been transferred back to Britain as the equivalent to Air Marshal Portal, to be in charge of all European Theater USAAF operations. General Eaker was put in charge of the Twelfth and under him was also placed the newly created Fifteenth USAAF, consisting mostly of heavy bombers and intended to conduct strategic warfare. Its base became Foggia northwest of Bari, Italy, its main supply port. The designated targets of the new bomber fleet were in southern Germany and the Balkans. There had been two mar- ginally successful raids against the Ploesti/Romanian oil fields on 12 June 1942 and 1 August 1943. There was damage but the losses were severe. Fifty percent of the bombers on the first raid and 33 percent on the second raid did not come home. The air war against the Balkan allies of Hitler started in November 1943. If, as some strategists tried to prove, attack on morale had knocked Italy out of the war, it was now time to try  230 To DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II 231 the same treatment on the Bulgarians, Romanians, Hungar- ians, and any government and people who fought on Germany's side against the USSR and the Western Allies. On 27 February 1944, General Norstad, director of operations for the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces, issued a bombing direc- tive for U.S. and RAF forces to attack Bulgarian cities Budapest, and Bucharest. Precautions were to be taken to avoid the appearance of terror raids.175 On 14 November 1943, the Fifteenth USAAF made its maiden major strategic raid with ninety-one B-25 medium bombers attacking Sofia, the Bulgarian capital. It was t