lion were issued/sold before the war, etc.27 During and after a raid, the warden post was to report damages and sum- mon help. Help was available through voluntary three-man fire parties manned by inhabitants of the affected area and equipped with hand-operated fire pumps. From outside the area heavy rescue units including fire brigades could be called. The latter, depending on what the municipality had provided them with, could be useful or helpless vis-a-vis the bomb dam- age. The hand pumps were no more effective in Britain than in Germany against the sophisticated fire raids and the incendi- aries. Also, only 8,500 were delivered in Britain before the war.28 A paramilitary Civil Defense Guard was formed which had, by the time the Blitz came, about 2 million volunteer members. To protect its citizens the British government did not appear to be as thorough as the Germans. Responsibility for coping with the results of an air raid, from burying the dead, to looking after the bombed out, to repairing damages, was spread between the ministries of Health, Home Security, Transport, and others.29 Coordination of rescue efforts was said to often be lacking. The provision of air-raid shelters consisted at first mainly of delivering unassembled Anderson Shelters to houses that had at least a small yard in the back. The shelter was made of corru- gated sheet metal and required a hole to be dug in the yard with the excavated soil placed on the roof of the assembly. There was room for up to four people inside. Bunks were provided to wait out the alarms. Comfortable it was not. There was dampness inside, overcrowding when there were more than four people to the house, and not the least, poor ventilation. Many people pre- ferred to stay on the lower floor of their houses. A similar uncomfortable shelter was a steel box, 61/2 x 4 x 2 feet high placed in the basement, if there was one, or the ground floor. It was called the Morrison Shelter after the Minister of Home Security. One