ing from a beautifully printed and leather-bound volume of Shakespeare's collected works. With so many of our possessions it went up in flames a few weeks later. I have only memories left of this precious tome, one thousand of which were printed in London in 1623. What was hard to reconcile for some of us was that the Nazi propaganda told us day in and day out how base any- thing Anglo-American was: Their culture, their political sys- tem, and their values. Then just to confirm it all, we civilians were bombed and strafed by their bombers and fighters. Yet here we were studying their literary achievements. It did not add up. I sneaked out of the shelter, got to the front door and saw in between the low clouds formations of U.S. bombers fly- ing north. It was 14 February, the day after the infamous RAF Dresden raid, followed early the next morning by a devastat- ing U.S. raid on that burning city. My father and I kept working during the day whenever there was no alarm. We salvaged from the businesses what was salvageable. We arranged for a truck to take my grandfather to relatives in a village outside Würzburg. On the way I dropped off a few more possessions in a place we had rented and where a year before we had already stored about 10 percent of the merchandise of the stationery store. The government had ordered all retail businesses to move that much of their goods to what were considered safe places in the country. At night we became trekkers and slept in the cottage. When the Luftwaffe bombed Britain in 1940-41 many citizens there left the cities. They were called trekkers. Our conditions and fears were probably the same the British people had endured then. When the big raid came on 16 March 1945 we were already asleep. The alarm had been sounded in the city when we were crawling into our damp beds. After a while there was a roaring noise of aircraft engines and before long we could see through  40 TO DESTROY A CITY THE RAIDS BEGIN the closed shutters that the s