the benefit of the Allied Control Commission. The Sondertruppe became part of the Reich War Ministry. It kept track of the hidden planes, prepared lists of spare parts stores, and investigated the old aircraft factories and other suit- able industries for possible rapid conversion to plane produc- tion should the need arise. The correspondence with these fac- tories refers to "production of motor vehicles."84 Despite Versailles, demobilization, and appalling economic conditions, Germany was psychologically quite prepared to fight should it be attacked, from the east or the west. When the Ruhr occupa- tion came about, armed resistance was considered and the War Ministry ordered one hundred fighter planes from the Dutch firm Fokker.85 Delivery was to be taken after fighting had start- ed. Similarly, the German navy ordered ten seaplanes from the Heinkel factory in Sweden and had them stored under a pri- 153 vate address in Stockholm Harbor.86 The Ruhr crisis was peace- fully settled before Fokker could deliver. The legal implications of the orders to Fokker and Heinkel in light of the Versailles Treaty would have been a challenge to any lawyer. The Germans had title but not possession of the planes. The next step in the clandestine rearmament of the Reichswehr, as the German army was now called, was a secret addendum to the 1922 Rapallo Treaty with the Soviet Union. For the world to see, Germany and the USSR recognized each other and made a number of political and commercial agree- ments. Not known until much later were secret clauses that allowed the German army to establish training schools in Russia for air force and tank personnel. The air force school was located at Lipetsk west of Moscow and operated from 1924 until 1933, when Hitler ordered it closed. Fifty of the planes purchased from Fokker were sent there. Selected offi- cers and men were transferred to receive combat training, after having attended private flying schools in Germany for basic training. The G