is capacity as chief of staff in the early 1930s, is condensed in his speech at the opening of the Air Warfare Academy at Berlin-Gatow on 1 November 1935.24 In this address he stressed his belief that the Luftwaffe by itself could not win a war. It had to cooperate with the army and the navy. Wever made clear his belief that "The objective of any war is to destroy the morale of the enemy's armed forces."25 What Wever meant was to cause destruction in the enemy's hinterland. However-and here he differed from Douhet and Trenchard-he strictly limited his bombing theories to strategic targets and made it abundantly clear that enemy civilian morale was not to be attacked. This thinking was manifested in the "Luftwaffen Dienstvorschrift [Service Manual] No.16," which Wever authored prior to his death in 1935. It was revised in 1940 and applied until the end of the Luftwaffe in 1945. In the 1935 and the 1940 editions under paragraph 186, it stated that "raids on cities with the purpose of causing terror to the civilian population are basically out of order." Only if the enemy persists in raiding German cities in that manner may reprisal raids be permitted.26 How this instruction was inter- preted from 1940 onward by the Luftwaffe we shall see later. Wever wanted a strategic air force, but even if he had lived, it is doubtful that it would have been created. His untimely death prevented him from becoming a bomber practitioner. After Wever's death, the Luftwaffe's rearmament accelerat- ed, and his successors, in unison with Hitler's political and military aims, saw in the Luftwaffe a tool for blitzkrieg (light-  TO DESTROY A CITY 68 ning war), in which aircraft would support the army, provid- ing fire support for fast-moving armored units. There were other German air warfare theoreticians who proposed bombing. In May 1933, the Lufthansa director Dr. Knaus submitted a secret document to the German Air Ministry. The civil airline director, turned military expert, rec- ommended