ican literature about the Gestapo and police suppressing any incipient discontent. Little of such action if any is recorded in the files of the Bundesarchiv in Koblenz. There just was no mass hysteria in Germany after either small or massive air  308 To DESTROY A CITY PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF BOMBING raids. People became stoic and went about reconstructing their lives. After the main raid on Würzburg one could certainly observe this attitude. People did not express feelings of hatred towards the RAF bombers or the German government. Many citizens also felt that after Warsaw, Rotterdam, the London Blitz, and Belgrade they got back what the Luftwaffe had meted out. German propaganda was another thing. It tried to instill hatred against the bombers, and when the V-weapons started to fly, radio and newspapers announced that the hour of revenge had arrived. There is evidence that there was hysteria in air-raid shelters which had all their escapes blocked. Heat, smoke and/or many other conditions had caused people to panic and scramble for the exits. There was no escape and the position of the bodies found, sometimes years later, showed that it was a struggle of individual against individual. Reports speak of bodies piled on top of each other with signs of physical violence. In short the bombing offensive did not produce a large- scale mass hysteria or creeping paralysis. Some psychological changes could, however, be noted. There was no general permanent damage to the civilian psyche, although the air raids did have short-term effects like fear and anxiety. There was some deterioration of the general behavior, such as an increase in alcoholism and smoking.17 Finally, there was an increase in cardiac deaths, peptic ulcers, and increased menstrual problems among women. There was also a phenomenon that occurred after air raids. The difference between "mine and yours" became blurred and many survivors helped themselves to goods from damaged dwellings of other people.18 This s