RLD WARS Mussolini without consultation or approval by Franco. Mussolini was upset by Hitler's annexation of Austria and in general felt that the Germans were stealing the show every- where. He wanted to prove that Italy was a force to be reck- oned with.60 Specific orders were issued not only to aim at the harbor installations but also at residential districts. The raids lasted forty-four hours and were carried out by planes of the Aviazione Legionaria stationed at Mallorca. Six Condor Legion hydroplanes also participated. Over 1,300 people were killed and more than 2,000 were injured.61 The international outcry was immense. Britain, the Vatican, and even Hitler pressed Franco to stop the slaughter. Franco in turn was furious with Mussolini and requested him not to issue direct orders to the Italian soldiers in Spain.62 Whereas the Guernica raid must be considered a tactical operation, albeit gone completely wrong by design or accident, the Barcelona raids were designated ter- ror raids. Why, it is impossible to understand. During the course of the Spanish Civil War there were many minor raids that caused civilian casualties. Reviewing the files of the Condor Legion one reads that they, of course. always hit their assigned military targets such as harbors and railways.63 There were instructions for fighters on how to attack moving trains from the last wagon toward the locomo- tive. It does not say that a difference should be made between a passenger and a freight train. While the war in Spain was going on in Europe, the Second Sino-Japanese War was raging in the Far East. In 1931 Japan took over northern Manchuria and established the last Chinese emperor, deposed by the 1911 revolution, as emperor of the new puppet state, Manchukuo. Relations with China contin- ued to deteriorate and by 1937 the Japanese army and air force had invaded the northern Chinese provinces from Manchuria The Second Sino-Japanese War had started and would contin- ue until the Japanese surre