ld have succeeded in the bat- tle of Britain. In an Air Ministry communication it is stated that the Luftwaffe made a mistake in calling off the attacks.54 In the months after the fall of France, RAF Bomber Com- mand continued bombing Germany. This was justified by Churchill and his government as the only possible means of fighting the Reich. This is not entirely true, because long before the Normandy landings in 1944, Allied commandos frequently raided the occupied European coast from Narvik to Bordeaux; the Dieppe raid being the most famous. In addition, it was London that organized and, with the help of the RAF, supplied  186 BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II movements in Western Europe. Both the nation es schemes engaged considerable German forces and the latter was, strictly speaking, against the Conventions. It hardened the attitude of the occupiers and has left ill feelings to this day The Air Ministry gave Bomber Command instructions on what to attack based on the Air Targets Sub-Committee of the Industrial Intelligence Centre. After 1936, a total of sixteen Western Air Plans had been developed. Four spelled out the most likely scenario and indicated what should be hit. The Western Air Plans W.A.1, 4, 5, and 6 defined as targets the Luftwaffe, communications, war industry, oil and aircraft fac- tories.55 For months between June and December 1940, the bombers flew into Germany at night and dropped their bombs. Oil was the main target, but because the number of attacking bombers was small and that number scattered over many tar- gets, the damage was limited. Bomber Command was still flying twin-engine bombers. The rearmament program, started in 1933 with ever increasing numbers of aircraft coming into active service, was still in progress. British aircraft factories were expanded and started working around the clock. For 1940 the British War Potential Program had projected a production of 16,000 planes.56 To this had to be added the deliveries from the United States, wh