and Bomber Committees; but he retained his position as advisor to the Air Ministry. In that capacity he made unfavorable comments on Lord Cherwell's minute to Churchill about dehousing the German civilian pop- ulation. There followed a polite but pointed exchange of letters between him and Cherwell. Tizard disagreed with the calcula- tions but not with the principle. In other words he subscribed to the theory of area bombing and its well-known conse- quences as seen in the blitz. He was all for this form of warfare, only he doubted that Bomber Command had enough resources to carry it through. Until such means were made available. Tizard proposed to concentrate on chasing U-boats. He told Cherwell, "I don't really disagree with you fundamentally, but only on the matter of timing."17 Until the end of the war Tizard continued as advisor to the Air Ministry and the Ministry of Aircraft Production. He retired from all political and academic appointments in 1949 and passed away on 9 October 1950. To sum up, Tizard believed in Douhet and Trenchard and did his administrative and scientific best to give his country the means to implement their theories. 63 Another scientist involved with bombing theories was Lord Solly Zuckerman, or "the Zuck," as he was affectionately called by his friends and admirers. And to the latter I have added myself, after having reviewed his book. Lord Zuckerman was born in South Africa in 1904. In 1926 he went to England to study medicine. After graduation he researched the behavior of apes and monkeys. Between 1932 and 1934 he worked as a research fellow at Yale but then returned to England. At the beginning of World War II he was asked to conduct investiga- tions into the effect of bomb blasts on the human body. Based on his past work he tested apes and goats held in trenches while bombs were exploded nearby. The tests were performed in the Salisbury Plains in October 1939 at the instigation of the Ministry of Home Security.18 The ministry wante