ed States. These men and the other delegates each had their own ideas and aims. Wilson, as the representative of the the nation that had come out of the conflict strongest, had his Fourteen Points. Before long he had to retreat, basically because it was argued that the Huns had shown their real nature at Brest-Litowsk and Bucharest, where they imposed harsh conditions on the van- quished Russians and Romanians in early 1918. The Germans had forfeited any clemency. The victors and their hangers-on were sure of one thing-the Central Powers were to foot the bill. In the surprisingly short period of three and one half months, the document to make peace with Germany was ready. The Germans were invited to Paris at the end of April. There were to be no negotiations, just sign at the dotted line- the hunger blockade would be lifted as soon as they signed. The conditions were just and considerate; they were humiliat- ing and dishonorable-all dependent on from which side one looked at them. The German delegation protested, delayed, and made counterproposals, but in the end had to sign. It was 28 June 1919. The place was the Hall of Mirrors in the Palace of Versailles, where Bismarck had undiplomatically proclaimed the Second German Reich in 1871. Peace with Germany had been established. But it was a peace that lasted only for twen- ty years, two months, and two days. There were enough voices even before the signing that warned that the harsh terms would lead to a new conflict. Individuals like Smuts of South Africa; Keynes, the British economist; Lansing, the U.S. secretary of state; and many oth- ers tried to warn the world. The Germans naturally opposed the treaty. They considered it the worst treatment an enemy had received since Scipio Africanus of Roman times had dealt with Carthage after the Third Punic War in 146 B.C. The treaty was rejected by the U.S. Senate. Wilson, who had come to the peace conference to enshrine the Fourteen Points, had given ground to his interna