1941, was a blow to Bomber Command and its leader, Sir Richard Peirse. The government decided to assess the bomber offensive and a halt to all major operations was ordered. It appeared that German reports of little damage were correct. There followed a period of reprieve for the German cities. In the second half of 1941 British fortunes declined further. Rommel threatened the Suez Canal, the Soviet Union seemed in danger of collapsing, money was running out for paying war materials coming from the United States, and the U-boats were roaming the Atlantic with ever-increasing success. The United States was still neutral but providing support despite legal barriers imposed by Congress. President Roosevelt, who had concerned himself solely with domestic matters until 1939, considered it politically prudent to shift his attention to foreign affairs. He saw a threat to democracy in the  204 TO DESTROY A CITY BOMBING IN WORLD WAR II Axis Powers, which included Japan, whereas in Britain he per- ceived a bulwark against this evil. His New Deal had been a limited success. There still were millions of unemployed and their votes were needed. When war broke out in Europe the nations of the western hemisphere under the guidance of the United States signed the Declaration of Panama which provided a security zone of three hundred miles around the continent in which no fighting could take place. This suited most Americans who were loath to being dragged into another European conflict. But the U.S. adminis- tration considered a war with the Axis powers inevitable, par- ticularly once Germany and Italy conquered the United Kingdom. War would then come to the shores of the United States. Therefore Britain had to be saved and at the same time U.S. defense had to be established. Like the rest of the world the United States had begun to rearm after the collapse of the Geneva Disarmament Conference. The start was later and the momentum smaller in the beginning. The B-17 four-engine bomber,