l after he became a peer in 1941-was born at Baden-Baden, a southwest German spa, in 1886. His mother was taking the waters at the time. His father was German and his mother American. That she gave birth to him in Germany, not Britain, and his German name, were a lifelong embarrassment to him. After primary education at Blairlodge in Scotland, he was back in Germany for his secondary and university education. For five years he attended the Realgymnasium (high school) in Darmstadt, the capital of the Grand Duchy of Hesse. The archives of the city of Darmstadt contain a letter from a fellow high school student in which Lindemann is portrayed as a withdrawn and arrogant fellow.12 His biographer says the same thing and mentions that the young student circulated in rather high German society. The Grand Duke of Hesse, a grandson of Queen Victoria, took interest in him and he played tennis with such notables as Kaiser Wilhelm II, another grandson of Victoria, and Czar Nicholas II of Russia. After high school graduation in 1905 he entered the Technische Hochschule (University) Darmstadt. The archives of this school show that for seven semesters Frederick studied elektrotechnik, or electrical engineering, until spring 1908.13 After Darmstadt, Lindemann took further applied science studies at the Institute of Physical Chemistry run by Professor Nernst, an eminent scientist of his time, at the Königliche Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin, now called Humboldt University. In 1911 he earned his doctorate in "philosophy," as applied science was then called. His examiners, Professors Nernst and Planck, both Nobel Prize winners, termed his the- sis excellent. Yet in oral examinations both professors and three  TO DESTROY A CITY 60 61 THE ROAD TO AREA BOMBING others gave him only passing grades, and Nernst went as far as to enter into Lindemann's file that there were gaps in his knowledge of physics.14 After a lecture tour at the University of Chicago, Lindemann was back in Brit