became part of the Greater German Reich. The union was forbidden by the Versailles Treaty, but no actions were taken. In September 1938 the long-festering problem of the Sudeten-Germans/ Austrians in Czechoslovakia was brought to a boil by Hitler. War almost broke out in Europe. The Sudeten-Germans/ Austrians were a rather tragic problem of history. They were Austrians until 1918 when their land became part of the periphery of Czechoslovakia. They were denied joining up with Germany because they were Austrians; they could not join Austria because of their geographical location; and the Czechs needed them to add real estate to their country. There were demonstrations and suppressions with a number of deaths from 1920 onward. Many books have been written about how it all happened and why the Munich Agreement momentarily saved the world from Armageddon. Hitler's bluffs had worked and he could tell the German people that he had corrected another injustice of Versailles. In March 1939, despite Hitler's assurances that he had no more territorial ambitions, he sent the Wehrmacht into the Czech part of what was left of Czechoslovakia. After the Munich Agreement, Benes, the first Czechoslovakian presi- dent, had resigned after not having been consulted about the agreement. There was the perceived threat to Germany of USSR bombers soon being staged at Czech airfields.111 Czechoslovakia was in turmoil and Hacha, the new presi- dent, asked Hitler for help.12 He obliged, and the century-old  162 To DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS 163 Czech dream of an independent state collapsed. The protec- torate of Bohemia and Moravia was created, and the threat of Russian bombers operating from there was eliminated. The never-mentioned advantage for the Czech people of the pro- tectorate was that it kept them out of the battles of World War II and prevented the bombing of their cities, except for some USAAF raids on Prague, Pilsen, and Brüx in 1944-45. Slovakia became a sovereign natio