ng at anything that moved. One of the persons who moved in the city was myself. I will never forget this raid. I was in the city when it start- ed. No alarm could be heard, because there were no more sirens. The chatter of machine guns and the howl of descend- MODEL  TO DESTROY A CITY 48 ing bombs told me unmistakably what was about to happen. I took cover as well as I could and tried to get out of town. But that meant crossing one of the bridges. However they were strafed continuously, as I found out when I came nearer. It would have been like running a gauntlet. I finally crossed after I could hear a mobile siren (mounted on a car) sound the "all clear" in the distance. HING Part Two Fighter Squadron 527 was one of the many flying this raid and they claimed to have destroyed three aircraft on the Luftwaffe base and four motor vehicles.26 A total of sixty-five persons were killed in the bomber and fighter attacks this day. For Würzburg it was the end of the Allied bomber offen- sive. There followed ground fighting with day-long artillery barrages until 6 April, when the Wehrmacht retreated east- ward. Of the six thousand citizens who still lived in the city, another twenty were killed. The Wehrmacht had decided to fight for these ruins. About 300 American and 1,000 German soldiers lost their lives in this useless struggle. The war seemed over for us and the end had come-but not quite yet. The Luftwaffe could still muster a few planes and twice, German fighter bombers came and tried to attack U.S. Army movements. The damage to the U.S. troops and the city was nil. After that the war had really come to an end for us, and the struggle for a new life started. Würzburg was dead; 89 percent of its built-up area was destroyed. The British Bombing Survey, the U.S. Bombing Survey, and other sources all agree that it was the worst or sec- ond worst destroyed German city of more than 100,000 inhab- itants. In the narrative of the official history of the RAF bomber campaign ag