prosper, but found that there was no room and tolerance for its forays. In reviewing literature and docu- ments for this study one finds only one author who recognizes the dilemma of Japan, but by omission nobody allows Germany and Italy the same benefit.257 The war with Japan had started with the bombing of the U.S. Pacific fleet at Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941. After the disastrous setbacks for the Allies in the early years, the tide had turned and Japan had been forced to go on the defensive. The threat of the combined military power of the Axis had not materialized. There was hardly any coordinated effort between Germany and Italy on one side and Japan on the other. Japan was singleminded in its objectives and refused to 259 support its allies. After the defeat of the Sixth German Army at Stalingrad in January 1943, Germany officially requested some action in the Far East. The Japanese ignored the request. Japanese disregard for its allies' problems went so far as to allow, before December 1941, U.S. ships and later neutral ships to sail into Vladivostok to deliver war supplies to the USSR. 258 Japan, which had entered the war with resources which were insufficient for a long war, as Germany had, became squeezed for supplies. The Japanese islands have no natural resources. Japan was in the center of an expanded empire with vulnerable supply routes. Everything for war production had to be brought across the seas. The U.S. Navy launched a submarine campaign, which had all the ingredients and features of the German U-boat battles of World Wars I and II. It caused immense Japanese shipping losses, with the result that aircraft production alone could not keep up with the losses in battle. The Japanese army and navy air forces were never meant to be anything but tactical weapons. They were designed to support the land and sea battles. As in Germany there were no heavy four-engine bombers. Japanese bombers were all twin- engine, had a maximum bomb load capacity of o