ndon would suffer 25,000 fatalities 2 The committee concerned itself with disposing of such an unheard of number of bodies and estimated that 20 million square feet of lumber would be needed per month to fabricate coffins. The supply not being possible, mass graves were con- sidered as was burning in great funeral pyres. By 1938 the tons of bombs that could come down on London alone were estimated at 3,500 the first day and 700 tons daily thereafter.26 These figures were discussed by the Cabinet and Parliament, and above all laundered in the Fleet Street Press. Figures of 200,000 casualties in the first ten days and reports of fleeing refugees being machine-gunned from enemy planes were spread and, naturally, scared the popula- tion. Any intelligent observer, even without access to intelli- gence information, could assess that 700 tons per day would require 350 of the Luftwaffe twin-engine bombers to fly every day the circuitous route to London. The first day with 3,500 tons delivered would have brought an air show of unprece- dented proportions. Even if the bombers violated the neutrali- ty of the Low Countries, where the bombs, the planes, and the gasoline could come from was not explained. It is unfortunate that the media spread such hysteria, which contributed to the hostility on both sides before the war. However, the threat was there, as Hitler and Göring showed with the parades over Vienna and Prague. Faced with such grim prospects, the British government had to act. The Home Office was authorized to enact ARP measures. A net of air warden posts was set up. Each was responsible for several blocks of a city. It was staffed with vol- unteers who would ensure black-out regulations, provision of 283 hand operated fire pumps, distribution of gas masks, of which 50 million were issued/sold before the war, etc.27 During and after a raid, the warden post was to report damages and sum- mon help. Help was available through voluntary three-man fire parties manned by inh