n on civil defense, a sizeable sum.31 As in Germany, Britain had a program for evacuating chil- dren from threatened areas. Children were sent to Canada and the United States. Parents must have suffered agonies while their children were en route in the U-boat infested Atlantic. Other children were sent to Wales and Scotland from where, as soon as the dangers subsided, they drifted back home. The minimum civil defense preparation all major countries had was air-raid sirens to warn the citizens of the approach of enemy planes. These devices were mounted on roofs and con- trolled from one center for the entire area. In Britain and Germany a three-minute undulating (and ear splitting) sound- ing meant "alarm," take cover. When the danger was over another three-minute, equally penetrating steady sound meant "all clear." The sound of these sirens alone could instill enough terror to make one hurry for the shelter. In Italy it frequently happened that the bombers were over- head before the alarm was sounded.32 There was not enough 285 money or determination on the part of the Italian government to provide defense for its civilians. Supposedly there was no need for it because when Italy joined the war in June 1940 Britain was all but defeated. Similarly, Japan was very negligent in civil defense. At first, there was no enemy near enough to send bombers over the Japanese home islands. The situation in Japan was also quite different from other countries. Buildings, private as well as industrial, were and still are today of lighter construction than in Europe. It was not until 1944, after the loss of the Mariana Islands, that the need for civil defense was recognized. The minister of home affairs was entrusted with the devel- opment of civil defense measures. There was no law providing funds and forcing individuals to create a system. It appeared to be all ad hoc, after a raid, when the need was obvious. Tokyo had no shelters.33 There were no fire breaks and escape routes from