The Americans came back two more times, on 15 February and 2 March, to add to the chaos. The missions of the RAF continued. Of the more successful raids the one on Pforzheim on 23-24 February is noteworthy because it killed 17,000 people. Four days before American troops entered Cologne, that city was attacked again in two waves by 858 aircraft. The raid was not a tactical strike coordi- nated with SHAEF. The city was not even on the list of the Target Committee of 8 February. It was one pile of rubble which was turfed over again with hundreds of bodies left for the Americans to dispose of. 249 1.29 Cologne was the first major city where Western Allied ground troops encountered difficulties in advancing because of streets full of bomb craters and rubble. 255 They also found that the German command organized stiffer resistance in cities that were already destroyed. Bomber Command was not letting up. Essen and Dortmund received more than 4,000 tons of bombs each in daylight raids in early March. The USAAF revisited Berlin on 28 March leaving behind about 1,000 tons of explosives. Nürnberg was bombed again in February. The names and numbers of the many places which were attacked before the war was over on 8 May would fill pages. The Allied bombers had an easy approach to their targets as most of the flight path was now over friendly territory. But German fighters by day and night still had to be reckoned with. In particular the first ever operational jet fighter, the Me- 262, was feared, because it could strike with unheard of speed. There also was a last show of strength of the German night- fighters on 3-4 March. About eighty Ju-88s followed the bomber stream into England and attacked the landing RAF bombers at twenty-seven airfields. Twenty bombers were shot down when they thought they were home safely. Three German fighters came down too low and crashed. It was the last Luftwaffe action over British soil in World War II.250 The Wehrmacht was out of fuel and supplie