lanes of the Con Condor Legion and the Aviazione Legionaria from 4 to 7 P.M. All aircraft were under the direct command of von Richthofen. He had cleared the raid with Salamanca and timed it to prevent the retreat of Republican troops through the town; at least that is what intelligence had told him. The raid- ing fleet consisted of twenty-three Ju-52, four He-111, one Do- 17, and three Savoia-Marchetti bombers. They dropped forty- five tons of high explosives and incendiary bombs, one-third of the total being incendiaries.56 Following the bombers came the fighters, ten He-51, six Me-109s, and twelve Fiat Cr-32s. They spread terror among the defenseless and fleeing inhabitants with their machine guns. There were no Republican troops in  146 TO DESTROY A CITY BETWEEN THE WORLD WARS town; the intelligence had been incorrect. The bridge over which they were to escape was not destroyed. In all, 1,645 civil- ians were killed and 889 wounded.57 These figures were released by the Republican press, while the whole raid was hotly denied by the Nationalists. Franco claimed that the Republicans had set the town on fire. In his diary, von Richthofen makes scant mention of the raid. Under the date of 26 April he mentions only that there was a raid on Guernica and strafing of troops in the town. The entry for the next day says that the fighters were back over the town and that it was in flames. For 28 April he states that Guernica "soll total zerstört sein" (Guernica "is supposedly totally destroyed"). But in the same entry he claims that the "Reds" have torched the build- ings. For 4 April he mentions that sixty tons were dropped on Red troops without indicating where, and the Durango raid is not mentioned at all in his diary. Many historians have attempted to clarify what really hap- pened at Guernica. The accounts vary from the above Republican statements to Franco's version. Analyzing the facts and reports one cannot deny that the raid happened. The word went out that the Hun