Contrary to the customary niceties of international law the vanquished powers were not invited. This was to speed up the process and avoid any wrangling. The Paris Peace Conference of 1919 can be compared in some respects with the Congress of Vienna. In 1815 France was utterly defeated after a period of glory and international recog- nition. An identical situation existed with Germany in 1918. But there the similarity ends. At Vienna, France was treated very gently. It could keep all its territorial European posses- sions, its colonies, and even the "collected" art and cultural treasures. The British and Austrian delegations insisted on lenient terms. It was the Duke of Wellington who reasoned that a defeated and emasculated nation would rise again in short order to rectify what it would consider injuries, insults, and injustices. The duke, the second in command of the English delegation, insisted that France should not be demilitarized. The Paris Peace Conference started on 18 January 1919 with the British Empire, France, Italy, Japan, and the United States as major victor powers, and twenty-two associated pow- ers, some of which were not even in existence at the outbreak of the war. They all agreed that the Great War was to be the last one and that conditions must be established to prevent similar ones in the future. To achieve that goal, Germany, the main cul- prit, must be punished and reduced politically, economically, and militarily to a minor player. Also, all ethnic aspirations of the world's nationalities must be recognized. The main per- sonalities in these dealings were: Lloyd George, the British prime minister; Clemenceau, the premier of France; Orlando, the prime minister of Italy; the Japanese foreign minister; and Woodrow Wilson, the president of the United States. These men and the other delegates each had their own ideas and aims. Wilson, as the representative of the the nation that had come out of the conflict strongest, had his Fourteen Points. Be