.28 There were infractions on treaties such as the use of mili- tary power against the enemy in the colonies. The Japanese had taken Tsingtao and the British had landed troops in German East Africa and in Southwest Africa. The German navy could not render assistance to any of the colonies. The few ships near these places were on the run, and the bulk of the navy was safely trapped behind the Grand Fleet in the North 107 Sea. The very raison d'être of the ships, namely to protect German overseas interests, had evaporated. Around the British Isles, though, German battle cruisers bombarded the town of Yarmouth on 4 November 1914 and the towns of Scarborough and Whitby on 16 December 1914, killing 140 civilians in the latter raid. These raids represented a clear infraction of the 1907 Hague Convention. From literature and documents it is clear that governments and military staffs were looking towards the airplane as a help to win the war. Plans were started to produce bomb-carrying aircraft with bigger loads and longer range. Until the end of 1914 the air war had not deviated much from the conventions. Most civilian losses had occurred in the war zones. They were "incidental," to use Lord Portal's and other prominent military leaders' terms of later times. Among the military planners and politicians in Britain, Sir William Weir succeeded in convincing the government that the long-range bomber was an even more devastating weapon than the German U-boat.29 Being an engineer by trade, Sir William also convinced his peers that it was cheaper to drop bombs than fire artillery shells on the enemy. On the German side, as we have seen, there were officers in the admiralty who wanted to use the Zeppelins for teaching the English a lesson. Albeit, it would have to be at night, because daylight tactical raids over the fighting zone had cost the German army four airships by the end of 1914. Weather and government restraint still held the bombers back, but not for long. The German Ka