focused on the need to build up overwhelming striking power in peacetime to counter such a threat and to be prepared to use all and any weapons, this meant retaining a strategic air force capable of mounting an immediate air offensive, and in 1948 the Strategic Air Command was activated for this purpose under the former Eighth Air Force wing commander General Curtis LeMay. He welcomed the assignment and had no regrets about wartime bombing. “Enemy cities were pulverized or fried to a crisp,” LeMay wrote in 1965. “It was something they asked for and something they deserved.”!2 The RAF bomber force was less fortunate after 1945. Bomber Command was almost entirely demobilized, its Air Striking Force reduced to ten squadrons by 1946.14 By the 1950s Britain could no longer afford to be a major player in the air war of the future. No effective heavy bomber was developed for the postwar force, and in 1950 the RAF had to bor- row seventy B-29s from the United States.  The possession of nuclear weapons now made the city-busting strategy of the Second World War a possibility. Though the object of a nuclear arsenal was to deter an aggressor, both Britain and the United States prepared plans for the point where deterrence failed. By the early 1960s American air forces, using missiles or aircraft, possessed the means to obliterate most Soviet cities and to kill more than 80 million of their inhabitants in a first or second strike.* British planners, working with a much more limited nuclear capability, identified fifty-five Soviet cities for destruction. The so- combatants totally destroyed and their civilization wiped out? God only knows.2 planning.” American thinking, like that of the RAF, focused on the need to build up overwhelming striking power in peacetime to counter such a threat and to be prepared to use all and any weapons, they asked for and something they deserved.”2 The RAF bomber force was less fortunate after 1945. Bomber Command was almost entirely demobilized, it