intment trespassed directly on his own role, but the purpose of the new appointment was to focus on hospital beds rather than areas of general medical policy. Brandt immediately bustled about planning nineteen new hospital sites and 54,000 more hospital beds, but the “Brandt Action” cut across existing planning, creating, in Conti’s words, “a permanent state of chaos.” Allocation of hospital space continued on an improvised basis.1** The one area where extra provision proved unnecessary was psychiatric casualty. As in Britain, the assumption at first was that bombing was bound to increase the degree of serious mental disorder, particularly as many of those subjected to bombing were female. Yet it soon became clear that although fear and nervous anxiety were widespread, this did not lead to evident psychotic states.  Psychiatric casualty was generally nursed in the privacy of family and friends. Only after the war were the traumatic consequences of exposure to the bombing threat eventually observable.14*  Along with the evacuees came not only problems of welfare and medical provision but a treasure trove of rumors spread by an urban population that suddenly found itself the center of attention in the reception areas. Rumors performed a number of functions: they gave the evacuees a sense of temporary importance as they regaled their hosts with overblown accounts of the horrors of being  1 yo 4 1 1 7 c ote 1 wat ae coe 1 . Can stilt attract men. ... ine Germans froin the west fave Often Criticizea the meiriitier preeting with the remark that people dont greet each Other ilke Chiat if the O10 Reich. from bombed cinemas.1#° But the temptation to return home was strong. By the end of November 1943, 217,000 Berliners had returned despite efforts of the authorities to use compulsory ration-card where they were aiming, making both inhabitants and evacuees into refugees together.127 was only one doctor for every 10,000.1*° the expense of the state.1*2 The scheme made slow pro