he camp at Auschwitz (GEMM) in Poland was in January 1941. At that time it was not the extermination and labor complex of Auschwitz-Birkenau, where  1941. “Sporadic attacks” against a target such as Auschwitz were unlikely to be accurate enough to do more than kill many of the prisoners.1*” of three main areas: an extermination camp at Auschwitz-Birkenau; a camp for forced labor selected from those deemed fit enough from among the arrivals; and an industrial complex at nearby Mono- witz where the chemical giant I.G. Farben was constructing a plant to produce synthetic rubber and other war-related chemicals. On July 7, following an interview with Chaim Weizmann, president of the Jewish Agency, Eden wrote to Sinclair asking whether it was possible to bomb the camp or the rail tracks leading to it. Churchill was keen to pursue this, but Sinclair, like Peirse, was unsympathetic. He told Eden that interrupting rail traffic in France had proved difficult even with the full weight of Bomber Command behind it; to find and cut a single line far away in Poland was beyond the power of the bomber force. Sinclair doubted that bombing the camp or dropping arms to the prisoners “would really help the victims.” He thought the American air forces might be in a better position to do it, and promised to discuss the issue with Spaatz, overall commander of American air forces in Europe.1** Spaatz was sympathetic, but claimed that nothing could be done without better photographic intelligence of the camp itself. There was extensive reconnaissance material on the nearby Monowitz plant and other war-economic targets around Auschwitz, but although some photographs showed. areas of the camp, the extermination center had not been the object of a specific reconnaissance operation.4** Unknown to Spaatz, the War Department in Washington had already been lobbied several times in the summer of 1944 to undertake bombing of the rail lines or the gas chambers but had deemed the operation to be “impra