tion, defined by the regime as extracting as much military equipment as possible from existing machinery, materials, and labor, was pushed to its limits during 1944. The major constraint on the German war effort, labor supply, was ameliorated by drawing in resources from occupied Europe, exploiting camp labor more extensively, and finding ways to get women with children to undertake part-time work or work at home. To cope with the large-scale movement of the population as a result of bombing, the plenipotentiary for labor, the gauleiter of Thuringia, Fritz Sauckel, issued an order on January 17, 1944, obliging those who had been evacuated and were not yet working to report to local labor offices for work. The first order produced only 65,000 volunteers, but as the number of evacuees increased, the second and third “report orders,” which applied to women with children under seven and women aged forty-five to fifty, reaped a larger harvest. By October 1944, 1.6 million had registered, out of whom 303,000 were given work, three-quarters of them half-day shifts in dispersed factories. Almost all of these were women, joining the 3.5 million female workers already on half shifts. Women constituted more than 50 percent of the total German workforce by the end of the war.2°8  The changing composition of the industrial workforce brought advantages and disadvantages for German war production. The foreign workforce made up 1.6 million (15 percent) of industrial labor in July 1942, 2.7 million (22 percent) in July 1943, and by the summer of 1944, 3.2 million (29 percent). Their presence could present problems of language, discipline, and training, and there was anxietv that thev would not cove as well as German workers under the pressure of bombing. At Daimler-Benz. thirtv-one different nationalities were recorded in the workforce. including one lone soon made good, the decision was taken Dy the German rignter otair to decentralize all aircrart and aero-engine production even r