adar.14 Although a new round of research began in Germany, there was too little time or opportunity to profit from it as the infrastructure collapsed. The seesaw electronic war ended in the Allies’ favor. By 1945 the night-fighter force was a wasted asset.  In November 1944 the crisis in the German Air Force reached a peak. Goring found himself caught between two poles, Hitler’s harsh accusations over the failure of the air force and the stark reality of Allied air supremacy. He took out his own frustration by blaming his aircrew for lack of courage and loyalty. On November 11, Géring convened a tribunal (“Aeropag”) in Berlin with his senior air force commanders at which he announced that German airpower had failed and asked for solutions. It became, recorded one of those present, “a dreary forum which harped on about National Socialist influences within the Luftwaffe” but resolved nothing.1* The anxieties in the West about the revival of German airpower now scarcely reflected the reality. The air force relied increasingly on gestures.  New Sturmidger (storm fighter) nits were created from skilled nilats who flew their aircraft. armed with heavv new 30-millimeter cannon. straight at the homher stream. regardless of the nowerfiil a ne supplies of coal and coke from the Ruhr and force a reduction of one-third in electricity generation.‘ Serious damage to the Mittelland Canal, the main link between the Ruhr and central Germany, left it unusable for much of October and November. Coal traffic on inland waterways was 2.2 million tons in September, but 422,000 in December.?“8 Hitler ordered the transfer of 1,000 heavy and 2,000 pact the transport plan was having and encouraged its expansion. high (the peak in September 1944 was only 1.9 percent of sorties); losses amounted to just 1.37 percent of all sorties in the last eight months of the war.1/2 Meanwhile, the German Air Force remained also reduced training time on the new detection instruments.? Most night fighters were