fort” of the two air forces, the Eighth Air Force concentrating on destroying precision objectives by day, the RAF on night bombing of areas to break down morale. The passage was underlined to give it added force.2® The combination was little more than a marriage of convenience. American air forces based their planning and preparation on isolating and destroying Germany’s key industrial and economic targets and eliminating German airpower—much as the German Air Force had done against Britain—while Bomber Command continued, when able, its unremitting destruction of the central areas of German in- dustrial cities.  Ran in ane maeeinan Af nanrranianan tha navtn nes Lad annnenta hada Thaes had Laan a ecantinns Lafaen Qannhlanan that thaesn shawl ba a ainada naman dae fae tha bam bae Afannten Aen ald crane tnd  Page 109 of 562 20% accept the alternative of night bombing.*® The American air force delegates at Casablanca knew that this was an argument they had to win. After clearing the request with Eisenhower on January 13, who was a popular choice with the Americans, the nominal director of the whole bombing campaign."® On January 20, Eaker was given a brief appointment to see Churchill so that he could present bombing. Eaker later recalled that when he came to the sentence about round-the-clock bombing, Churchill “rolled the words off his tongue as if they were tasty morsels.”!* Later that day Churchill was ing.” The army and navy commanders at Casablanca devoted almost nothing in their memoirs to the arguments over bomber strategy. The projection of airpower against Germany was essentially Continent.””? This was a wish list that encouraged the continued dispersion of Allied bomber forces. program of bombing that provided the background for the eventual directive at Casablanca.2* The preamble to AWPD-42 stipulated that the offensive was “a combined effort” of the two air forces, As in any marriage of convenience, the partners had separate beds. There had been suggestion