forces in terms of current striking power. Bomber Command had been slowly expanded and modern- ized for three years before Casablanca and was closer to being able to redeem some of its tarnished promise in the spring of 1943 than the Eighth Air Force, which was still in the difficult throes of constructing a viable organization. Building up an effective bomber force differed markedly from the development of a major land army. Bomber commands consisted of volunteers with a high degree of long-term, expensive, and specialized training. The initial equipment was complex and industrially demanding. On both counts loss rates had to be kept as far as possible to a supportable minimum.  Page 115 of 562 21% ee  ——EeEeEeEeEeE—E—eE_E—e EET E————— eee ee eee eee ———_—————E—E—_COEeEeEeEeEeEEEE_ Ee lee ee ee eeeEeEEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeeeEee— Eee were attacked.** persuade Eaker in February 1943 that round-the-clock attacks on cities would be strategically valuable—“heavy blows delivered on German cities have far greater effect than they did’—but Eaker would not be drawn in.2° The gulf between the two strategic conceptions, as has often been emphasized, reflected two very different military cultures. American strategic practice was much closer as to permit initiation of final combined operations on the Continent,” which gave bombing a defined strategic purpose.?® Arnold asked the Committee of Operations Analysts in Washington, set up in supplied the data on nineteen industrial target systems by March 1943.22 Arnold instructed Eaker to work out with Portal the precise number of targets and the degree of operational effort required to second, and ball bearings third.*? It was sent on to Bufton by an Air Ministry colleague with a covering note that it was “dull as hell” and needed to be shorter and brighter. It had been drafted chiefly by Portal’s strong support on May 18.4? The new directive for what was code-named Operation Pointblank was issued to Harris and Eaker on June 10, 1943.