German case this meant industry, utilities, and worker morale alongside more evidently military objectives. On August 17, Air Intelligence provided a list of what were defined as “Fringe Targets” around the edge of occupied Europe that could be subjected to air attack. The fringe included targets up to thirty miles inland in Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, and France. In Scandinavia there were twenty-five targets, consisting chiefly of oil installations and airbases (but including the Norwegian port of Kristiansund, already heavily bombed by German aircraft); in the Low Countries sixty-one targets were identified, ranging from electricity-generating stations to iron and steelworks; in France thirty- one targets were listed around the coast from Dunkirk to Bordeaux, including an aero-engine works at Le Havre, a power station at Nantes, and a marshaling yard at Lille, a little over thirty miles from the coast.* Over the course of the autumn, additional target information was processed and detailed target maps supplied. The list for France expanded to fifty-eight objectives located in the thirty- mile zone: nine oil installations, eight chemical plants, eleven aircraft works, seven blast furnaces/steel mills, eleven shipbuilding firms, and another dozen smaller targets. The targets were given star ratings to indicate their importance, three stars for the highest priority, of which there were seventy-seven by the spring of 1941. In May 1941 it was agreed that the RAF could undertake attacks on “deep penetration targets” where these could be reached easily by day without excessive risk.? Conscientious anxieties played little part in these early raids. Escalation was soon built into the process of deciding what could be hit and under what conditions. Many of the early raids around the fringe were tactical bombing operations carried out to forestall the possibility of German invasion and to hit at targets that supported the German air-sea blockade. They were car