ated—deliberate damage to civilian populations was now taken for granted. This paved the way for the possibility of using atomic weapons on German targets in 1945 if the war had dragged on late into the year, a fact that is easily forgotten. Echoes can be found in the later extravagant planning for second-strike nuclear destruc- tion during the first decades of the Cold War, when up to 80 million Soviet citizens were expected to be casualties.  It is against this strategic background that sense can be made of the decision to intensify the bombing offensive to be certain of securing German defeat. The summer diversion to the ground war, however, had done nothing to settle the inter-Allied arguments over bombing strategy that had surfaced in the early months of 1944. Indeed, a renewed eagerness to demonstrate what air forces were now capable of gave them fresh impetus. The first step following the decision to return the bomber forces to air force control was to change the overall command structure to more properly reflect the balance of power between the two Allied bomber forces. This was now heavily tilted toward the Eighth and Fifteenth air forces, which had on hand between them more than 5,000 heavy bombers in the European theater and could call on over 5,000 fighters, including by November around 2,000 P-51s. One major Eighth Air Force raid late in 1944 employed 2,074 bombers and 923 fighters. Against this Harris could field around 1,400 heavy bombers, mainly Lancasters, a fraction of what had been hoped for.** Spaatz refused to return to Portal’s direct control and preferred to retain his close relationship with Eisenhower. Under pressure from the British chiefs of staff, Arnold agreed to relinquish the link with Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force (SHAEF), but only on condition that he would now be the representative of the Combined Chiefs of Staff for directing the American strategic and tactical air forces in Europe rather than Portal. To mollify t