tes, known to all shelter users, to prevent the mass deaths that had occurred in apparently safe air-raid rooms. The problems this presented were advertised in a Luftschutzbund report in July 1943 about a woman who succeeded in the nick of time in saving her fellow shelterers:  There was darkness in the cellar. We were all thrown on top of each other. The light failed. If we had only put ready an axe for opening up the breakthrough at a fixed point on the wall, we would have saved ourselves fearful minutes of alarm. We found the axe only after a good quarter of an hour. As the air in the cellar quickly became worse, I bashed at the breakthrough like someone possessed. Now it got its revenge, because we had never bothered particularly about the added bit of wall. Only after 20 minutes had I cut a hole just large enough to slip through.12+  In the months after the bombing of Hamburg, air-protection instructions sent out monthly by the Air Ministry to local police authorities emphasized repeatedly the need to keep cellar shelters clear of obstacles, with a clearly marked breakthrough point, made of shallow mortar. More difficult was the realization that the constant repetition of the slogan earlier in the war that “the air-protection room is the safest place” was no longer always the case. Air-raid wardens and action leaders were now encouraged to teach their communities the right moment to leave a shelter if a fire threatened to run out of control. When leaving a cellar in a firestorm, people were advised to wear a coat soaked with water and a damp hood. A coat, it was claimed, was more difficult for the fiery wind to tear off  Page 259 of 562 45% treatment. The many corpses were covered in quicklime and buried in mass graves, or doused with petrol and burned." The most damaged areas of the city were walled up to prevent people from returning to areas where there was a risk to health; buildings that had been checked for bodies and cleared were marked with a blob of gr