he heart of Germany.”45 At just the point that Galland and his commanders were waiting for the weather to clear, the units were ordered westward to the Ardennes to take part in Operation Autumn Mist (Herbstnebel), better known as the Battle of the Bulge. The reserves were lost and later decimated in Operation Bodenplatte, directed against Allied airfields in early January, when almost 300 German fighters were shot down. Galland was sacked by Goring a week later on suspicion of instigating a pilots’ rebellion against his leadership. A mutiny finally surfaced in a grim confrontation at the Air Ministry after Karl Koller, the successor to Korten as chief of staff, sent a delegation to meet Géring to request changes in command, the reequipment of fighter units with the Me262 jet, and greater respect for what the fighter arm was trying to do. Goring threatened them with court-martial, but in the end the ringleaders were simply posted away from Berlin. Hitler, however, finally conceded that the jet ought to fighter squadron armed with the new model began operations only in November.1+ by 1945 the figure was sixty.4!2 The more experience crews got, the better their chances of survival. The German night-fighter force, on the other hand, was hit by the collapse in fuel supply in a influences within the Luftwaffe” but resolved nothing.1“* The anxieties in the West about the revival of German airpower now scarcely reflected the reality. The air force relied increasingly on gestures. New Sturmjager (storm fighter) units were created from skilled pilots who flew their aircraft, armed with heavy new 30-millimeter cannon, straight at the bomber stream, regardless of the powerful “the shock the enemy needed,” one of the pilots later told his American captors, “to make them cease their inroads into the heart of Germany.”146 the fighter arm was trying to do. Géring threatened them with court-martial, but in the end the ringleaders were simply posted away from Berlin. Hitler, however,