o allow the new targets to be bombed once warning had been given; the Dutch government followed suit on July 15, but only after making it clear that they would only tolerate operations conducted in such a way “as to minimize the danger to the civilian population.”223 Once again the raiding habit of flying at high altitude against targets that even when visible could not be hit with sufficient accuracy broke the pledge to bomb with greater discretion. The Eighth Air Force began operations with B-17 Flying Fortresses against Dutch targets just two days after receiving approval from the Dutch government. The target chosen was the Fokker aircraft plant in Amsterdam, first bombed by the RAF in 1940 with little effect.224 The American operation on July 17 killed 185 people and missed the factory. One bomb hit the church of St. Rita, filled with 500 schoolchildren who were singing an “Ave Maria” to ward off danger after the siren had sounded. Eleven were killed in the church; another 29 died when a bomb hit a doctor’s waiting room. Around 130 buildings were destroyed.22° The Dutch government-in-exile immediately protested and Eaker was asked to explain how he was going to avoid a repetition. The Eighth Air Force switched temporarily from using B-17s to using the medium twin-engine Martin Marauder B-26 bombers for attacks on Dutch and Belgian targets from lower altitude. On their second raid, against a Dutch power station at Ijmuiden, all eleven B-26s were shot down.22° Over the months that followed the B-26s were instructed to fly higher and casualties on the ground mounted again. The bombing of Ghent on September 4, 1943, resulted in 111 dead, that on Brussels on September 7 using B-17s caused a further 327 deaths.227 An American raid on Enschede on October 10, again using B-17s, killed 150. The damage to the German war effort was limited. The Fokker works completed a program of dispersal and decentralization into forty-three smaller locations scattered around the Amsterd