ldren,” recalled one witness. “I heard the grief-stricken cries of desperate mothers and fathers, searching in the ruins for their beloved children. ... 1 saw fires, heaps of ruins and people wringing their hands.”!2 A Foreign Office official wrote to the PWE a few days later describing the raid as “catastrophic”; the “bad shooting” of the Eighth Air Force, he complained, had done serious damage to the reputation of Allied air forces in a country that had hitherto welcomed the idea of bombs on German targets.222  The poor record of American bombing soon provoked a wider crisis. Eaker was first asked by the Air Ministry to take special care in bombing centers where civilians were likely to be hurt, then told to suspend bombing in occupied areas altogether pending a decision about which specific targets should be allowed. Despite protests from Washington, a list was agreed to between the two air forces, and Eaker and Harris were asked to avoid using freshmen crews against targets in major cities. The twenty accepted targets included only one in the Netherlands and five in Belgium. Bomber Command agreed to use only reliable and experienced crews, but Eaker insisted on the continued right of the American bomber force to use novices.224 No sooner was the list agreed upon than the new Pointblank directive, drawn up for the Combined Bomber Offensive, apparently reversed the decision by listing targets in densely populated areas of occupied Europe as part of the overall plan. Eaker at once asked whether he was now free to bomb what he liked, but the issue could only be resolved at the highest level. Eden worried that civilian casualties in Belgium and the Netherlands would deeply affect “the  morale and spirit” of the local population and asked that radio broadcasts and leaflets should notify the people of impending bombing, but only after agreement had been reached with the Dutch and CUTISIOCLAUIC PICSOULS Uli LILES WLAE, ALM ALOE UIE Uo. ail LULLED, LU CLOULE Lila LIE BUI