g 1943 it became necessary to recruit foreign workers—Poles, Czechs, and Ukrainians—into the fire service. In Hamburg by the end of the war around one-quarter of the regular fire service was made up of Ukrainians. A more radical departure was the call in April 1943 for women to volunteer for the fire service, not only in auxiliary roles but as regular firefighters. ihere was darkness 1n the cellar. We were all thrown on top or eacn other. ine lignt raled. lf we had only put ready an axe ror opening up the breakthrougn at a lxed point on the wall, we someone possessed. Now it got its revenge, because we had never bothered particularly about the added bit of wall. Only after 20 minutes had I cut a hole just large enough to slip through.14 the population engulfed by the hurricane of fire survived relatively unscathed in blastproof surface shelters. All self-protection leaders were charged with making sure that householders in every only buckets, pails, bathtubs and rain barrels, but even washbasins, washtubs etc.” Water could even be removed from central heating systems.2° Each air-protection room now had to contain its own neighbor Gessert, which the householder put out.”!2? For the regular fire service, the onset of heavy firebombing raids placed a strain on units that were already depleted by regular culls of manpower From October 1943 they could be subject to compulsory mobilization, and by autumn 1944 an estimated 275,000 female firefighters, aged between eighteen and forty, took their part in combating Al- lied incendiarism.12® The popular myth that German women did nothing more than guard hearth and home during the war is demonstrably untrue for this most dangerous of activities. Hamburg also signaled the onset of widespread urban evacuation following the first two years of war in which it had been discouraged or temporarily indulged. The veiled evacuation of children permitted under the KLV organization tailed off during 1942 and 1943; from a peak of over 160,0