fense measures. In July 1938 a director of passive defense was appointed in the Defense Ministry to coordinate the protection of civilian lives and property with the committees of passive defense set up in each French administrative département.©* The problem for French civil defense was the sudden defeat and occupation in the summer of 1940. In the area occupied by the Germans, civil defense was likely to be a necessary safeguard against British air activity; in the unoccupied zone, the urgency for continued civil defense seemed less evident. The Vichy government set up the Directorate of Passive Defense in the southern city of Lyon in 1941 under General Louis Sérant, but it was starved of funds and personnel. Spending on passive defense had totaled more than 1 billion francs in 1939 but by 1941 was down to just 250 million.®” In both zones of France the difficult task was to reach a satisfactory working relationship with the German occupiers. The active air defense of the occupied zone was in the hands of Field Marshal Hugo Sperrle’s Air Fleet 3. Following the switch to the war against the Soviet Union, the number of fighter aircraft and antiaircraft guns left in France was seldom adequate for the weight of Allied attack. German priority was given to the nrotection of the most imnortant militarv sites. including the submarine nens and German airbases. Air-raid alarms could onlv he activated on German orders. though French ohservers  Page 375 of 562 64% GELeLISe COULLLEM TUS CEG allt OUY TYULEU, £16 VUMOITIES WETS CESlLlOYEU All TOU LICAVILY Udillaeeu. 1WO Udyo 1A LOL, RELIES Nidosoleil, LIE PICU AllUdosodGOl UOVICsericilis Lie PLOVislUlial SOVELIIITIETIL to cry out, “Vive la R.A.F.!” but also “A bas l’Américain Air Force.”>> pletely the pattern of raids on a German city, with the exception that Eighth Air Force losses were modest, a total of seven aircraft on September 16 and no losses a week later.©° provoke.”*4 The air force worked out the pattern of bombing acc