helmingly by the RAF, cost only around 2.7 percent of German economic potential in the target areas. It was calculated that the combined offensive cost 2.5 percent of potential German output in 1942. 9 percent in 1943. and 17 vercent in 1944 (figures that were roughlv consistent with the claim that 5 percent of British outout was lost during the lighter Blitz). Since area eet Vey aD See Yr ASnees ee use of manpower and brainpower on this scale.”148 Instead of the large staff envisaged by the ministry, Churchill recommended a limited group of twenty to thirty people. His intervention invited Security, which was to be closed down when the war ended.1*2 Both men were committed enthusiasts of the attack on communications, and their work and the subsequent reports reflected their bias. Their terms of reference were to examine the effects of bombing on German fighting capacity, the effectiveness of German defenses, and the accuracy of assessments of damage.!*! Already hostage to airfields, and combat attrition.4=2 Géring thought the collapse of oil supply to be the single most critical factor—“without fuel, nobody can conduct a war”—while Albert Speer, Hitler’s minister for tions” together.1*4 On area bombing the German judgment was largely negative. It did not “cause the collapse of the German people” and was regarded, according to McDonald, as “the least important of the major target complexes.” When Géring was asked in one of his first interrogations on May 10 whether precision or area bombing was more effective in Germany’s defeat, he replied, “The precision German output in 1942, 9 percent in 1943, and 17 percent in 1944 (figures that were roughly consistent with the claim that 5 percent of British output was lost during the lighter Blitz). Since area bombing in 1944 experienced diminishing returns, ton for ton, by dropping on previously destroyed areas, the implication again was that most of the production loss was due to American bombing of selected target systems.