o provide adequate shelters.** Rumors quickly circulated outside Paris that the Germans had deliberately locked the workers inside the factory or had barred entry to the shelters. It was said that out irregularities fad been pursued in lai. british political warrare assumed that the WOrkIng Class Would be the Most likely to Challenge the occupiers because they were Dy definition supposed to and will do all they can to help it.”2* Bombing was supposed to suggest that liberation was close behind it and to encourage hatred of the German enemy. The leaflet campaign was deliberately designed targets in occupied Europe to achieve maximum damage and “to gladden the hearts of all men and women loyal .. . to the Allied cause.”*8 In April 1942, Bomber Command was instructed to bomb targets in France, the Low Countries, and Denmark (“knock them about”), so that local people would demand proper protection and hence disperse the German antiaircraft defenses.?® The PWE reached RAF on any one night over Germany. An estimated 300 buildings were destroyed and another 160 severely damaged.?+ workers had reacted, “because it is the workers who have been killed, the workers who ‘go slow’ and sabotage.”2? Although the French authorities orchestrated elaborate public funerary events, the among the people who suffered it. He was now willing to support further raids.** In Paris itself the operation was welcomed by many as a sign that liberation might be one step nearer. “Nobody was Parisians called out “Long Live Great Britain!” as they lay dying.*® The raid itself had limited results. Reports reached London in June that only 10 percent of the machine tools had been lost as a result of the bombing and that the Renault works was operating at between 75 and 100 percent of its pre-raid capacity.*”  The heavy bombing of French targets between 1942 and 1944 by Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force was undertaken in the hope that casualties could be kept to a minimum to avoid alienating the Fr