reat and to be prepared to use all and any weapons, they asked for and something they deserved.”2 The RAF bomber force was less fortunate after 1945. Bomber Command was almost entirely demobilized, its Air Striking Force reduced to ten squadrons more than 80 million of their inhabitants in a first or second strike. British planners, working with a much more limited nuclear capability, identified fifty-five Soviet cities for destruction. The so- called JIGSAW committee set up in 1960 to investigate the strategy was instructed to consider only the effects on the population, “the aim being to select target cities so as to pose the maximum threat to the greatest possible number of Russian people.” The Air Ministry was particularly interested in learning lessons from the bombing of Germany to decide what level of destruction was needed for “knocking out” a city. It was calculated that Hamburg had received the equivalent of a five-kiloton bomb during the war, which encouraged confidence that the large megaton bombs now available really would be able to paralyze a city at a stroke.1° The principal lesson learned from the bombing campaigns of the Second World War was the need for even greater and more indiscriminate destruc- tion of the enemy if ever World War III materialized.  The experience of the bombing war helped to shape the Cold War confrontation of mutual destruction or mutual deterrence. It was under this shadow that European nations began the process of reconstructing the bombed cities and towns and counting the cost of the cultural damage they had sustained. The programs were ambitious and optimistic despite the threat of nuclear obliteration hanging over them.” Recovery was in this sense like recovery from a natural disaster—a volcanic eruption or a major earthquake—in the knowledge that another geological shift might undo the urban rebuilding at a stroke. The reconstruction began at first against a background of economic crisis and legal wrangling over ownersh