gh risks for the sake of restoring what had been temporarily sacrificed in wartime.”” which the victimhood of ordinary people in the bombing war can be reconciled with a persistent collective guilt for the crimes of the Hitler regime. Outside Germany, the memorialization of victims Sofia.”* Nevertheless, the monument still stands. It performs the conventional function of honoring the military dead who contributed to the well-known history of European liberation—yet it is also re a ~ Sees = le i ae i ie — — diers.° Only in recent years have lists of the civilian victims of bombing been added to a number of local war memorials in Italy and France. IHINIAUINII  — — —_— — —— —_—_ — — —  Page 435 of 562 75% “ou ee ae . Sofia.”*4 Nevertheless, the monument still stands. It performs the conventional function of honoring the military dead who contributed to the well-known history of European liberation—yet it is also TINIAN HII INN TT Page 436 of 562 75% DM nut iui ik = Wetewey is Bomber Command commander in chief Sir Richard Peirse at Bomber Command headquarters in 1941 with his deputy, Air Vice Marshal Robert Saundby. This image is more familiar with the figure of Air Chief Marchal Arthur Larric at tha dacl 75% IHINIAUIUI ITIIINNUII Marshal Arthur Harris at the desk. Page 438 of 562 75% Po ee of eee EERIE ee 2.2.80 Q°>;[c;°rt A flight of Armstrong Whitworth Whitley bombers in 1940. The Whitley was one of the mainstays of Bomber Command in the early months of the RAF campaign against Germany, though its performance was limited and it was poorly armed. 75% < — 7 a x + Political warfare leaflets are loaded onto an RAF bomber for delivery over occupied Germany. During the war, more than 1.4 billion leaflets were dropped by aircraft in the propaganda war against the Axis, and a further 95 million by balloon. Political warfare leaflets are loaded onto an RAF bomber for delivery over occupied Germany. During the war, more than 1.4 billion leaflets were dropped by aircraft in the