eaflets by Aircraft and Balloon, 1939-1945.” dropping leaflets, it “must be very strong.”?? On the actual effect of leaflet drops the evidence remains speculative. In Germany and Italy it was a crime to pick them up at all. social crisis in Germany in 1940 or 1941, every straw of information was eagerly clutched at. Violations of air-raid precautions were particularly highlighted. It was reported that seventeen Dutchmen had been heavily fined in the summer of 1941 for staying out on the street during a raid singing “Who’s Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?” News from Denmark suggested that 20,672 prosecutions for black- out irregularities had been pursued in 1941.** British political warfare assumed that the working class would be the most likely to challenge the occupiers because they were by definition supposed to be antifascist. Directives to the BBC European Service in early 1942 asked broadcasters to “take absolutely for granted the workmen in enslaved countries are unhesitatingly behind our bombing policy, and will do all they can to help it.”2> Bombing was supposed to suggest that liberation was close behind it and to encourage hatred of the German enemy. The leaflet campaign was deliberately designed to reflect this two-pronged argument. In the spring of 1941 messages to Belgium were to be divided into “Hope—45%,” “Hatred—40%,” “Self-interest—10%,” and “Self-respect—5%.” Propaganda aimed at the Netherlands had “Certainty of Allied Victory” top of the list, with 35 percent. In between the leaflets, the idea was to bomb intermittently to keep such hopes alive. In 1941 this appeal was possible. A Belgian woman who had escaped to Britain in October 1941 claimed the raids “were the best propaganda the British had done.”*° The years of apparent inactivity that followed undermined confidence in occupied Europe and dampened the hopes of Britain’s political warriors. By the end of 1941 these military and political considerations combined to push the RAF toward a more vigoro