ail centers and bridges across northern Italy undermined the frantic efforts of the German authorities to extract what they could from the shrunken Italian industrial economy. By February the MAAF targets committee had difficulty finding any targets left in northern Italy that had not already been hit or were regarded as worth the effort of bombing. Nevertheless, raids continued to be made until the last days of the conflict. As in Ger- many, Allied air forces by the end of the war possessed a good deal of excess capacity for which there were no longer suitable objectives.12® The cost of the bombing campaign to the Italian economy is difficult to compute, not least because of the extensive damage done by artillery and battlefront aviation that resembled the conse- quences of bombing. The effect on German efforts to extract additional war production in northern Italy has been estimated at a loss of 30 percent in productive performance due to absenteeism and regular alarms. The overall loss of capacity for Italian industry has been estimated at 10 percent, since most industry was not an object of bombing; the loss for war-related industries was much higher, one-half for naval production, 21 percent for the metallurgical industries, 12 percent for machine engineering.12° By contrast, the textile sector lost 0.5 percent, the electrical industry 4 percent, and the chemical industry 6 percent of capacity. Damage to housing, though heavy in particular cities, has been estimated at only 6 percent of total housing stock. The chief target was the Italian transport  svstem. where two-fifths of the rail network was destroved along with half the rolling stock and an estimated 90 vercent of all Italian trucks. The five vears of war reduced Italian national income bv  Page 348 of 562 60% concluded. Nor did they cause “complete internal economic collapse.”/24 Kesselring, when interviewed in August 1945 after the end of the war, confirmed that the transport plan had not been a great