1” Recovery was in this sense like recovery from a natural disaster—a volcanic eruption or a major earthquake—in the knowledge that another geological shift might undo the urban Germans who lived for years in cellars and shacks, short of food, supplies, and schooling. A delegation of British peace workers visiting Liibeck in 1947 were shown weekly food rations consisting of just two pounds of bread, a half liter of skimmed milk, half a herring, one ounce of butter, and four ounces of sugar. They found 4,000 people in the port still being fed a watery soup daily from a communal kitchen. Accommodation was rationed in Hamburg to 5.6 square meters per person; the water supply was poor, electricity irregular. The women they met expressed strong sentiments “against all forms of militarism or war.”*? Neither in Germany nor elsewhere in Europe were the heavily bombed and depopulated cities abandoned. In France there was a move to keep the ruined peninsula of the Channel port of St.-Malo as a memorial to the bombing and to relocate the town on the mainland, but tradition prevailed and St.-Malo was rebuilt on the existing site. The only place to be moved as a result of bombing was the italian town of Cassino. The ruins on the, mountainside were re declared a national monument anda anew and larger town was built on more level grounda mile away from the original site. . City e centers,  Page 430 of 562 74% other totalitarian menace to Europe.12 planning.”4 American thinking, like that of the RAF, focused on the need to build up overwhelming striking power in peacetime to counter such a threat and to be prepared to use all and any weapons, the future for an atomic capability that would allow “immediate offensive action with overwhelming force,” which the American air force had demonstrably lacked in 1941.2 For American planners really would be able to paralyze a city at a stroke.4° The principal lesson learned from the bombing campaigns of the Second World War was the need for e