f the war. A raid by RAF bombers that hit residential districts of The Hague on March 3, 1945, killing more than 500 people, occurred just weeks before liberation.212 Over the course of the war the enthusiasm relayed to the Allies by Dutch, Belgian, or Norwegian resisters about bombing German targets became tempered by growing resentment at the cost in lives and livelihoods imposed on those caught in the crossfire of war. There was also an important political difference in the case of Norway, the Netherlands, and Belgium. Each had a government-in-exile in London, with a miniature apparatus of state. Unlike any other bombed state, the exile governments could represent directly to the British government their views on bombing policy and their objection to or approval of its conduct. This in turn placed considerable pressure on the RAF, and later the U.S. air forces, to ensure that the guidelines governing the bombing of targets in the region clearly expressed its limits. Damage to civilian targets and civilian deaths had to be explained or apologized for, unlike raiding against most other targets in Europe. This was even more the case when bombs intended for a German destination instead fell inadvertently on Dutch or Belgian cities. Both states lay on the flight paths to German targets for the whole war period. The Dutch town of Groningen was bombed by mistake on July 26, 1940, and two people were killed; it was bombed again in error when the German port of Emden was shrouded in fog on the night of September 26-27, 1941, and this time six people died.212 Maastricht was bombed by mistake for Aachen in February 1942, prompting Dutch protests that the RAF used trainee crews for nearer and easier targets, as they did, making mischance more likely. Raids deliberately targeted Page 413 of 562 71% arrived in Sofia in November 1944, but the Red Army command proved uncooperative. Eaker’s visit to HMMM in September 1944 was the closest that Allied air commanders got to assessme