tions to challenge the substance of rumors; some rumors were deliberately started by propaganda officials to counter a local mood of depression or hopelessness; home intelligence regularly recommended dealing with rumors at the source by publicly announcing their false nature and providing some nuggets of more plausible information.” The difficult thing was to gauge how much hard information should be given out. The formal policy, approved by the high command, was to announce no details about the number of casualties and the damage to buildings. In March 1943 a brief but clear communiqué was given about a raid on Berlin, which immediately won wide public approval.15 But only in the case of the raid on the Rhineland dams were precise casualty figures given, to stop the rumors that 10,000-30,000 people had died.1*? Rather than yield to public pressure to give precise information, public anxiety was to be mediated by propaganda that highlighted the achievements of the German Air Force against the bomber offensive. Propaganda companies from the military propaganda arm began to work in the bombed cities from June 1943 to provide local stories on successful air defense or air-to-air combat. Goebbels had already orchestrated a campaign to convince the public that the German Air Force was taking revenge on the enemy population and would do so with new, powerful but secret weapons in the near future.1®  The idea of vengeance (Vergeltung) was itself problematic. since it depended for its propaganda success on more than iust promises. In 1943 the German Air Force’s activitv against British targets  Page 269 of 562 47% ee ee ee a SS SS Se FF ES ee Peek Se ee eee ee er eee ee a Pa ey a eee Sey Mais ee ee See ees ee Eee see SS eases lee ees 0 lL streets of boiling asphalt into which the victims sank . .. 200,000 dead.” He witnessed a group of Hamburg refugees trying to force their way into a railway car, until one battered suitcase carried along “This time those riders now saddli