separate.®° Harris also understood his campaign loomed larger than ever in his mind.22 and administrative structures. The plan was divided in two parts: “Hurricane I” was to be directed in general at areas that contained valuable targets in western Germany during periods when visual bombing was difficult; “Hurricane II” was for precise attacks in good weather on oil installations, motor transport depots, and communications. The directive was issued on October 13 to both Harris and Spaatz, but persistent poor weather rendered “Hurricane II” unworkable, while “Hurricane I” was too amorphous in ambition and was largely ignored.®% The search for an agreed plan did not stop the Allied bomber forces from heavy and regular attacks on German targets, almost all of them nonvisual on account of the deteriorating weather. On October 18 the two forces agreed to set up a Combined Strategic Targets Committee, chaired jointly by Bufton and Colonel Maxwell from Spaatz’s staff, to work out a better set of priorities. Air Marshal Arthur Tedder, Eisenhower’s deputy, was invited by Portal to contribute to the evaluation process. Tedder deplored what he described as a “patchwork quilt” of targets with no comprehensive pattern and recommended concentration on oil and communications as the two targets most likely to undermine German capacity to wage war. Tedder had been a firm supporter of the transport plan in Italy in 1943-44, then in the invasion of France. He was strongly supported by Solly Zuckerman, who had been responsible for working out the Italian plan, and was now advising SHAEF.1~° Tedder’s intervention proved decisive. Ultra intelligence in late October confirmed that attacks on transportation had already had a substantial effect on coal movements. A meeting at SHAEF headquarters on October 28 agreed on priority being given to oil targets and communications, and a new instruction, Strategic Directive No. 2, was issued on November 1 to Spaatz and Harris. The new directive, how