n cities were caused by fire rather than high-explosive bombs.1° The Hamburg police president later wrote that “speech is impotent” to describe the scene that he confronted shop window, they lay in every posture, quiet and peaceful or cramped, the death-struggle shown in the expression on their faces.1°” By the end of November 1943, records had been compiled to confirm 31,647 dead, of which only 15,802 could be identified; a further 2,322 were known to have died outside the city. The final death toll will never be known with certainty, but it is generally assumed to be between 37,000 (shown by police records) and 40,000 (the figure widely used in Germany before the end of the war). The Ham- burg Fire Department calculated that all the wartime bombing in Hamburg, from 1940 to 1945, resulted in the deaths of 48,572 people.1%  The aftermath of the raids saw an awful calm descend on the damaged city. Nine hundred thousand people fled unorganized over the course of the week and had to be absorbed into the surrounding countryside and small towns; 315,000 houses and apartments were destroyed or badly damaged, 61 percent of the city. Over the course of the war 902,000 people in Hamburg lost all their possessions, including the novelist Hans Nossack, who by chance had gone to a summer cottage outside the city just before the raids began. He watched the columns and truckloads of refugees, some still in their nightwear: “They brought with them an uncanny silence... crouched and remote. ... No lamenting anywhere, no tears.” Nossack returned to the city a few days later, losing his way in the ruined landscape and the swarms of rats and flies, “insolent and fat.”!°° The heat that had allowed the firestorm to take hold persisted after the bombing. Another eyewitness, Gretl Biittner, found the contrast uncanny between a deep blue sky dotted with pretty white clouds and the “image of unending misery and terrible devastation,” made starker by the fickle weather. She joined hundreds o