out on the street during a raid singing “Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?” News from Denmark suggested that 20,672 prosecutions for black- and will do all they can to help it.””° Bombing was supposed to suggest that liberation was close behind it and to encourage hatred of the German enemy. The leaflet campaign was deliberately designed possible. A Belgian woman who had escaped to Britain in October 1941 claimed the raids “were the best propaganda the British had done.”*® The years of apparent inactivity that followed undermined change at its meeting on February 5, 1942.2? The RAF scarcely needed to be prompted. The Air Ministry in November 1941 had already discussed the use of incendiary bombs in attacks on industrial targets in occupied Europe to achieve maximum damage and “to gladden the hearts of all men and women loyal . . . to the Allied cause.”** In April 1942, Bomber Command was instructed to bomb targets in France, the Low Countries, and Denmark (“knock them about”), so that local people would demand proper protection and hence disperse the German antiaircraft defenses.2° The PWE reached an agreement with the RAF to ensure that political considerations would play a part in target planning. The link between political propaganda and bombing policy became institutionalized and re- mained throughout the war a central element in bombing all the areas under German control.*° France: Bombed into Freedom The long arguments over whether or not to bomb targets in Paris were finally resolved by the decision in February 1942 to allow raids against important industrial targets throughout Europe. The raid on the Renault works became a test case of the dual strategy of economic attrition and morale making. On the night of March 3-4, Bomber Command sent off 235 bombers, the largest number yet for a single raid. Flying in to bomb from between 2,000 and 4,000 feet with no antiaircraft fire to distract them, 222 aircraft dropped 419 tons on the factory and the surrounding wo