esult was that by early 1944 the German fighter force was obtaining an average net gain every month of only May 1944 the Eighth and Ninth air forces based in Britain dropped 111,546 (75 percent) tons of bombs on strategic targets against 38,119 (25 percent) on tactical ones.” The real problem for Spaatz Target marking was generally poor and the damage to the city and its ball-bearing industry “nominal”; only twenty-two bombs fell within the city boundaries, the rest in open country. In this sense Harris’s fear that his force could not hit a small urban target effectively was right.44 Further raids were made to support the American campaign against Leipzig, Augsburg, and Stuttgart, where there were aircraft and component firms, but the raid on Leipzig missed the Erla aircraft works entirely at a cost of 11 percent of the attacking force, while the raid on Augsburg did little industrial damage but burnt out the whole medieval center of the city. The raids on Stuttgart, mainly through cloud, were scattered, though a lucky hit was made on the Bosch magneto plant. Throughout the period when Spaatz was attacking the German Air Force, Harris persisted in continuing the Battle of Berlin, where losses remained high and the impact limited. An assessment of the attacks on the capital between November 1943 and February 1944 by RE8 showed that only 5 percent of residential buildings and 5 percent of industrial plants had been damaged in heavy raiding.*? The attacks made in March on Berlin still brought loss rates of between 5 and 9 percent of the force on each raid. The last major British raid of the war on Berlin, on March 24-25, experienced high winds and resulted in scattered bombing across 126 villages and townships. Some 72 aircraft were shot down, 8.9 percent of the force. In April the final city raid against Nuremberg before the switch to the Overlord campaign showed the persistent limitations of area bombing. A total of 95 aircraft were lost out of the 795 dispatched, th