ible bomber offensive from the UK against GERMANY direct.”! His hastily concocted notes were typed up and agreed to when the Combined Chiefs of Staff reassembled for the afternoon session, and they became the basis for the document on Allied strategy endorsed by Roosevelt and Churchill three days later. Slessor elaborated the idea of a heavy bomber offensive into a full draft directive, and this was presented to the Combined Chiefs on January 21 with only minor changes in the wording. It was approved, and the Casablanca Directive for a joint bomber offensive against Germany was released as policy document CCS 166 two days later.*  The Casablanca Conference (January 14-24) came at a critical point for the Allies. Stalin declined to come, being too occupied with the battle for Stalingrad, so the discussions focused on the future of Western Allied strategy. At stake was the balance between expanding the Mediterranean theater of war, which the United States had joined with the landings of Operation Torch in November 1942, and the plan to open a second front in France in 1943 or 1944. For the bomber forces there was more at stake. The conference opened at the end of a period of growing criticism of Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force; it presented both forces with the opportunity to argue their case for sticking with an independent bombing strategy. This entailed a public relations exercise to sell bombing toa potentially skeptical audience. General Arnold instructed his staff to prepare detailed statistics, maps, reports, and colored charts for him to take to Casablanca, a list of props that ran to over three pages.* Harris took pains to ensure that a regular flow of publicity material, including good aerial photographs of damaged cities, reached the American press. The Air Ministry organized an exhibition in Washington in early January 1943, which was visited by Vice President Henry Wallace and later taken to the White House to show to Roosevelt. Wallace, it was re