ing briefly revived with the onset of the V-weapons campaign in the summer, but the unrealistic expectation that it would reverse the tide of the air war was at once disappointed, and by late June the intelligence reports found a widespread skepticism that anything could stop the bombing. By July, when every German front line had collapsed, in Belorussia, Italy, and France, “pessimistic opinion” prevailed everywhere. It was judged that this did not mean that the “will to resist” had evaporated, simply that there was widespread doubt that it would be of any use.?®”  The German nonulation lived through this neriod with a sustained sense of drama in which the exnerience of homhing nlaved onlv a nart. The nartv nlaved increasinelv with the idea that the his own calculations, particularly for those who died in 1945, Groehler suggested a much lower figure of 420,000 for all categories of victim and for the enlarged German wartime area.26% There are ways to arrive at a more plausible total. If it is assumed that the figure of 271,000 dead by January 1945 is a realistic, if not precise, total (and there are archive figures that suggest a lower levers to lock it shut . . . the people here are convinced that their cave is one of the safest. There’s nothing more alien than an unknown shelter.”26 mean that the “will to resist” had evaporated, simply that there was widespread doubt that it would be of any use.?°2 The German population lived through this period with a sustained sense of drama in which the experience of bombing played only a part. The party played increasingly with the idea that the German people were bound in a “community of fate” (Schicksalsgemeinschaft), in which the final struggles would test their racial qualities to extremes. Some of this propaganda may explain the evidence of a popular mentality of “victory or death” detected by the SD, but most of the home intelligence reports over the last year of the war show that ordinary Germans felt themselves to be t