-raid assistance. These generally had to be paid for by the householders but were a statutory requirement; they included rope, a fire hose, ladders, a home first-aid kit, sand buckets, water storage, an axe, a shovel, and armbands for those who were “lay helpers” or wardens. The intention was to ensure that all citizens assumed responsibility for their own protection, in their own homes; if required, they would have to help protect the immediate neighborhood as well. This was an extreme form of decentralization, but at the same time a commitment by every member of the “people's community” (Volksgemeinschaft) to a common defense of the nation. Self-protection was voluntary in only a limited sense, since Luftschutzbund officials were supposed to check every household to Page 232 of 562 40% Service (Luftschutzwarndienst), emergency repairs, medical aid, decontamination squads, blackout, camouflage policy, and fire protection.£ Confusion was temporarily set aside by an agreement between Goring’s deputy, Erhard Milch, and Himmler in 1938, which confirmed that the Regional Air Commands had overall responsibility for to penetrate or subvert or substitute conventional forms of authority. equipment was available, including a single model light-alloy hose coupling that could be used for all types of hoses, and three standard pump appliances.! In the end, the contest for jurisdictional In return, members attended one of 3,400 air-raid schools, or local courses in first aid, self-protection, and firefighting.1* For potential leaders there were Air Protection Academies to attend. In May make sure that blackout materials, anti-incendiary equipment, and a secure air-protection room were available. Failure to comply with civil defense regulations could involve a fine or imprisonment.  The other forms of self-protection involved sites outside the home. “Extended self-protection” was designed for all those buildings that were unoccupied in the evening or at weekends, including commer