-thirds of our population or that of the enemy wiped out or crawling about maimed by radioactive emanations or crippled by loathsome or incurable disease . . . ? Would it be over as quickly as that, with one or both combatants totally destroyed and their civilization wiped out? God only knows.?  Somervell reflected the prevailing postwar v: view that a future world war would be over quickly, despite all the lessons of the recent conflict, and that it would be even more destructive than the  ao teat ie ae it ado ete whee ee 8 8 i i et tee et A de tt et tet i i  Page 427 of 562 73% —————OeEeEeEeEE_E—E_—— Oe ee eee eee —— eee ————e—————eEeEeeEeEeEEE ee ee SEE ee eee ee eee EEE eee eee for the next war to be in fact a total war.” A lecture to the National Industrial Conference Board in the spring of 1947 by General Brehon Somervell, the officer responsible during the war for creating force officers, including General Kepner, victor of the “Battle of Germany.” The conference opened at the School of Air Support at Old Sarum, near Salisbury, on August 11 and lasted five days.* Although when hostilities began, not an “embryo Goliath” like Bomber Command in 1939, which took years to develop after the outbreak of war, but “a fully grown David, ready to act swiftly and decisively.”” combatants totally destroyed and their civilization wiped out? God only knows.® Somervell reflected the prevailing postwar view that a future world war would be over quickly, despite all the lessons of the recent conflict, and that it would be even more destructive than the damage inflicted from the air in the wartime offensives. In a speech on “Strategy” to the National War College in January 1947, General Albert Wedemeyer, architect of the American Victory Program in 1941, told his audience that the next war would swiftly assume “the characteristics of a war of extermination” involving ultra-destructive atomic and bacteriological weapons. Since the United States had failed to rearm in the 1930s i