irmed by Goebbels in May 1943.49 Opportunity for more serious political or social dissent was limited, given the willingness of the regime to impose severe punishment on any open or dangerous forms of protest; where it existed, political resistance was fueled by ideological difference rather than by bombing. Nevertheless, a growing pessimistic realism about the future jostled in public opinion with evidence of a firmer resolve and persistent confidence in Hitler’s capacity to stabilize the situation. The SD reports speculated, as did British intelligence, that the mass of homeless and disgruntled evacuees might be a possible source of an “inner collapse” if the bombing got worse, but an estimated one-third of the evacuees returned home. Those who remained, mainly women and children, were unlikely instigators of revolt, though there were isolated acts of protest against the treatment of evacuees or the withholding of ration cards. The most famous case was in October 1943 at Witten in the Ruhr, where the police refused to intervene.1®* In some ways bombing actually created a safety valve for popular disaffection. Rumors could represent a surreptitious challenge to prescribed public discourse without amount- ing to serious dissent. In the shelters it was sometimes possible for the small communities that inhabited them to complain about their hardships or to satirize the regime without fear of punishment. In one Berlin bunker, Hitler was always referred to as “The Hitler,” an intentionally less flattering epithet than “our Fiihrer.” The local warden turned a blind eye both to this and to harsher complaints directed at the dictatorship.1®” For the bombed-out, the opportunity to let off steam could also be tolerated. One generic story, cited by a number of observers, told of a hysterical woman evacuee chal- lenging the police to arrest her for some trivial offense because at least she would have a roof over her head. In each version of the story, the police do nothing.1®*