east she would have a roof over her head. In each version of the story, the police do nothing.1®* The SD reports noted a widely circu-  quickly to allay their fears. Special “bomb postcards” could be written from raided towns with express delivery to military units bombing campaign and dampened any prospect of social disquiet. “Everything went on very quietly,” wrote Nossack, reflecting on the absence of latent rebellion, “and with a definite concern for order, and the State took its bearings from this order.”!” Only in 1944-45, when bombing overwhelmed German society, was the search for order challenged. Economic Miracles  It has become fashionable in recent accounts of the German economy during the Second World War to dismiss the idea that there was anything very miraculous about its ability to expand war production continuously between 1939 and 1944.174 All war economies did this, the German more slowly at first than the others, then more rapidly toward the end of the war. The difference is that German industrial cities were subjected to heavy bomb attack from at least the spring of 1943 onward, and in 1944 to a weight of bombs many times greater than the Blitz on Britain. In September  QMAA BWetne odd ceo d thn Ven dene 36 Opens cece ee dec nee sith nt Ld bee eaten a ete Be et Ae on Bi he wh le WN a ae te Te Bee pnt ee Pet btn dD fae. Wee Le  Page 273 of 562 48% be described as “fallen” for the Fatherland, but the rest of the bomb victims could not, a distinction confirmed by Goebbels in May 1943.*° refused to intervene.*®* In some ways bombing actually created a safety valve for popular disaffection. Rumors could represent a surreptitious challenge to prescribed public discourse without amount- lenging the police to arrest her for some trivial offense because at least she would have a roof over her head. In each version of the story, the police do nothing.1®* The SD reports noted a widely circu-  and the State took its bearings from this order.”72 Only in 1944-