OL WilOlt) 110 OlliCial PLOVIsSIOI Was allowed.®° Evacuation remained voluntary and was presented to the population as a welfare measure, run exclusively by the party through the National Socialist People’s Welfare (Nationalsozialis- state.” Their aim was rapidly to re-create “the normal conditions of daily life in every area.”> formally under Goring’s authority, in which the party claimed a role. They included controlling behavior in shelters, checking on the blackout, supplying candidates for air-raid warden who possessed impeccable racial and party credentials, and providing moral support when it was needed.” These claims had at first a nominal value, given the limited raiding activity and the extensive civil defense organization already in place. But party insinuation was insidious and remorseless. By the time Goebbels was granted his new powers, the party had already made itself conspicuous in supplying SA and SS assistance when needed, Hitler Youth as messenger boys, the NSV as the organizers of evacuation, and the necessary pomp and ceremony at the burial of bomb victims. The post of Reich defense commissar (Reichsverteidigungskommissar), established on September 1, 1939, and generally given to the local gauleiter as a largely nominal title, was elevated by the war into an instrument for party leaders to play a fuller part in home-front mobilization. On November 16, 1942, the posts of commissar and regional party leader were formally merged and the Gau became the administrative unit for the home front. The gauleiter of Munich later recalled that from 1942 onward his work came to consist almost entirely of “defence from the enemy air war, activation of civilian air protection.””® Page 249 of 562 43% (just over 300 died in the raid, the worst casualties so far); reports to Berlin observed an immediate improvement in air defense discipline in other cities.”? The raid was swiftly followed by a series of ministry at once if help was needed. Goebbels told the gaule