nature of the dictatorship.2© In November 1943 an even more optimistic evaluation was produced by the British Political Warfare Executive on the creation in bombed cities of a “new proletariat” with a communist mentality, which might yet create a revolutionary crisis in Germany before the winter was over. In January further intelligence was sent to Churchill on social unrest in Germany which suggested that “the more we bomb, the more satisfactory the effect.” Churchill underlined the sen- tence with his trademark red pencil.?!” For Churchill the promise of a German collapse revived the confident assumptions about the political impact of bombing that he had harbored ever since the offensive began in 1940. The evidence in the autumn and winter of 1943 was nevertheless slender, based to some extent on imagining what bombing on sucha scale might have meant if it had been British rather than German cities under the hail of bombs. American political intelligence was in general dismissive of the idea that bombing alone could generate a German collapse. Spaatz rejected entirely the value of popular war willingness as a target: “Morale in a totalitarian society is irrelevant so long as the control patterns function effectively.”2!® American assessments of the revolutionary potential of the German working class Page 164 of 562 29% age, or whether 1t results from nervous predisposition Or liiness outside nis control. *"~ of the blazing turret and also parts of the rear-gunner’s clothing and body, finally letting the slip-stream blow them all away... . The wireless, the hydraulics and the tyres had all gone anda unable to concentrate. His appetite was bad. ... When I asked him how he would sum up his feelings in one word, he said ‘fear.’””?1° remarkably small proportion of all those regularly exposed to the stress of combat flying.214 Most medical reports on the air forces indicated high morale despite the high casualty rate. Eaker claimed that morale was not affected so much b