ent before an agreed list was drawn up. British air marshals, Lie complained, were a law unto themselves.242 When the Air Ministry presented a list of seven targets they would like to bomb, the Norwegian high command responded that some were wrong, some had ceased operating, and others were essential to Norway’s economy when the war was over.2“? A second list was worked out with Norwegian advice and finally agreed to on November 2, 1944. But only four days before that, Bomber Command had tried to hit the submarine pens at Bergen in poor weather. The bombs struck the town center, killing fifty-two civilians and burning down Europe’s oldest theater. The Norwegian government again warned the Foreign Office that raids without an evident military purpose merely alienated a potentially friendly nonulation. Though on the agreed list. Rergen had heen attacked hv fortv-seven Lancasters. against instructions. through almost comnlete cland cover 244 Page 419 of 562 72% no protest.23” Over the following three months more than 50 million leaflets were dropped on Belgium, 55 million on the Netherlands, preparing both populations for their liberation but including a of German night fighters were also based at Danish airfields.2?* There were almost no strategic Allied air attacks on Denmark. Most bombs were jettisoned or dropped in error, a total of 3,269 high ing an aborted raid on Berlin. Over the whole course of the war 307 Danes were killed as a result of all Allied air activity and 788 injured.2*° the aluminum plant at Heréya on July 24, 1943, the Norsk Hydro plant on November 16. Spaatz was pleased with the result and thought “it was heartening to the Norwegians.”2“! Far from being heart- command responded that some were wrong, some had ceased operating, and others were essential to Norway’s economy when the war was over.“3 A second list was worked out with Norwegian advice friendly population. Though on the agreed list, Bergen had been attacked by forty-seven Lancasters, aga