lackout every night along a cordon 100 kilometers from the occupation zone, and effective blackout over the whole of unoccupied France when aircraft were sighted. French officials regarded the request as “inopportune” and prevaricated for months until August 1942, when the French government finally accepted a blackout of the frontier zones.” A German aerial inspection a few weeks later showed that many houses had not bothered to take blackout measures; vehicles could be seen driving with full headlights; in Lyon the blackout occurred only after the antiaircraft artillery had begun to fire.” The long delay reflected a more general reluctance on the part of the French military leadership to comply with German demands. Failure to observe the blackout was also a simple way to express noncompliance. Free French radio broadcasts encouraged householders to keep lights on throughout the night to help the RAF find German targets. Only when the whole of France was occupied could the German occupiers insist on the blackout, but even then complaints con- tinued about its inadequacy. The occupation of the southern zone on November 10, 1942, coincided with the intensification of Allied bombing. As this became heavier, the French authorities recognized that failure to collaborate fully with the German occupiers would expose the population to unnecessary risks. The ambivalence remained, however. When German Air Fleet 3 asked for French antiaircraft gunners  Page 375 of 562 65% eee See See ee ee ao ee ay Ser Saree Oe Vee Se ee See eS ee eS ee eee Oe) 2 ne ee Cee, Se ee ee Ee SS ee ee ee ee appointed in the Defense Ministry to coordinate the protection of civilian lives and property with the committees of passive defense set up in each French administrative département. The problem for government finally accepted a blackout of the frontier zones.”1 A German aerial inspection a few weeks later showed that many houses had not bothered to take blackout measures; vehicles could be seen d