The workers who stayed behind in Turin, according to one report, had calmed down after displaying an “understandable agitation” at being bombed; but they remained in a continued state of anxiety largely because Allied aircraft could regularly be seen circling low over the city by day quite undisturbed. According to another report from Varese, north of Milan, the absence of any effective Italian defense against two Allied aircraft casually photographing the area below left the population “perplexed and alarmed.”** Leaflets dropped during the raids in  BT ce eT ed es Wd ete A heed Ba Bete a a a a Mine Be te a eee ew Te ee DN ad ee eee ed be Mier ete tLe 51 eM nn ee oe ee oe ee ee ee TE Spee SEE ees ee minimum protection, enough to cope with shrapnel or a distant blast, but not enough for a direct hit.*® ductive than had been possible with regular alerts. November and December listed major cities slated for future bombing (including the ones already bombed) and an appeal to “evacuate the cities” as soon as possible while casualties were still by com- parison “very few.” Perhaps to rub the message home, small stickers were dropped printed in red letters with the single word “Merda!” (“Oh shit!”).2? Evacuation was not by 1942 an easy option. In the 1930s evacuating the population from the major cities had been seen as a way of reducing the threat of casualties in the absence of shelters or gas masks. A plan had been distributed to prefects in 1939 designed to halve the city population by encouraging voluntary evacuation where possible and insisting on the compulsory evacuation of chil- dren, the elderly, and the sick (as well as convicts, a category more difficult to understand). Those who remained were generally obliged to do so because of the nature of their work or responsibilities. In June 1940 the scheme was virtually abandoned. Voluntary evacuation was uncontrolled, and soon led to prefects insisting that people return home. In the absence of persistent or heavy bo