dant of the Romanian Oil Region.”!25 But this time the American bombers flew at high altitude, protected by large 5, when 13 out of 200 bombers were lost. But by July the sortie rate had fallen to an average of 53 against the five raids that month. On the final raid, on August 19, there was no fighter opposition.1*° by surprise, perplexed by the sudden change from German ally to German enemy. But the German coup was stifled by the Romanian army and the German presence replaced by Soviet forces.1*8 In September 1944, Eaker was given permission by the authorities in Moscow to visit Romania, which had been occupied by Soviet forces on August 30. He found the devastation at IMM worse than any photoreconnaissance image he had seen. The information Eaker was given showed that refining capacity had been reduced by 90 percent. By the last attack on August 19, remaining German personnel were only able to transport an estimated 2-4 percent of Romanian capacity. He found his reception cordial and the Red Army commanders astonished at what high-level bombing could achieve. The Romanian people, Eaker reported to Washington, “look upon us as liberators.”122  Tn truth the hamhing af Ramania did not liherate the nanulatinn hut cantrihiuted ta the callanse af German resistance and half a century nf Saviet daminatinn Whatever the nolitical amhitinns to more than 2UU Meluy, NMeiiv, and Juoo aircralt, as well as the KOManian and bulgarian air forces along the line Of attack. 1he aerense OF mew was under the command of Lieutenant General Alrrea to distract any attacker.1®* This was as formidable a defense as any available in Germany itself. For the American crews it meant an operation that was likely to be more suicidal than any they would  aircraft plant in Austria, but on this occasion suffered only two losses against the lightest of resistance.122 The results of the EMM raid fell short of the ambition to knock the complex out for months, but enough serious damage was done to reduce o