ish aircrew were also posted to training schools in the United States under the so-called Arnold Scheme. In April 1941 the American army agreed to allow British participation in the Southeast Air Corps Training Program in the southern United States, and 7,885 pilots were sent for basic training, together with 1,200 navigators. The program was linked with Canadian training, but the failure rate in the United States was high because of the poor level of scientific education among British recruits, and the scheme petered out in 1942.°? Although crew were trained for a variety of The training program was the prelude to a great expansion of Commonwealth and European participation in the bombing war. There were Free French, Dutch, Norwegian, Czech, and Polish crews initially warmed to the idea of separate national units, partly because the complex training pattern made it difficult to keep crews from the same nationalities together as they went through the system. This was the problem with the limited number of Australians who contributed to the bombing war from British bases. Three Australian squadrons were activated, but even these could not be replenished regularly with only Australian airmen, while two-thirds of the ground personnel were British. In the spring of 1943 an effort was made by the Australian War Cabinet to stimulate creation of a distinctly Australian bomber group; there was resistance from the crews, already integrated with RAF units, and eventually an acknowledgment that the personnel needed to operate a full group could not be freed from the limited labor supply in Australia needed for the Pacific War and wartime industry.*? The pressure from the Canadian government for the “Canadianization” of the units organized in Bomber Command had more success. On January 1, 1943, an entirely Canadian group, No. 6, was activated under the command of Air Vice Marshal G. E. Brookes. It was spread out across the Yorkshire countryside, with headquarters at Allerton Ha