tely for more than a few days a month. From September 1943 onward, American bombers were directed to attack city areas through cloud in the hope that this would hit the precise targets obscured by the elements. Sensitive to opinion, the raids on city areas were defined, as with Bomber Command, as attacks an induotrial nantare ar innrancinalry ao Gmarchaline tarde 2189 Tha diotinatian far mact thauach natall Amarinan raidina fram Dritioch aran hambina urae intantian Tha airrilian and tha nitrilian milian  Page 154 of 562 27% ————— ee eee  fire... . The aeroplane by this stage was completely out of control with icing ...a very frightening experience. On this occasion pilot and crew survived.1®= bombs “on the critical points of the targets.” “It is evident,” he continued, “that our bombing is still not up to the standards that it can be.”182 Cloud, industrial haze, and smoke screens made this on industrial centers or, increasingly, as “marshaling yards.”1®2 The distinction for most, though not all, American raiding from British area bombing was intention. The civilian and the civilian milieu were never defined as targets in their own right, even if the eventual outcome might make the distinction seem merely academic. Around three-quarters of the effort against German targets between 1943 and 1945 was carried out by blind bombing using H2X equipment; from October to December 1943 only 20 percent of bombs dropped using radar aids came within five miles of the aiming point, an outcome little different from Bomber Command’s in 1941-42.1°° High levels of accuracy were reserved for primary industrial targets in good weather, where accuracy levels increased from 36 percent within 2,000 feet in July 1943 to 62 percent in December. American practice became one of selective precision when visibility was good, and less discriminate attacks when visual conditions were poor.!2! The result, as with Bomber Command, was to increase the number of German civilians killed and houses dest