force lost 43 percent of its strength in the same month.*2  The arena of daylight air combat over Germany was among the harshest of the air war. American commanders expected a great deal of their crews. “Greater risks are justified,” wrote Anderson to Arnold, “and high losses are to be expected.”*4 They were able in the end to accept high losses only because a generous spring tide of aircraft and crew was now flowing across the Atlantic. For the German fighter force, high losses made it difficult to keep more than 500 serviceable fighters in the Reich Air Fleet at any one time. The result was that in air-to-air combat, fighter to fighter, the German force was completely outnumbered and the concentrations easily broken up. “An enormous number of us arrived, a crowd of 30, 50, sometimes 60 aircraft,” a captured German fighter wing commander explained, “but each pilot simply attacked wildly at random. Result: each of them was shot down wildly at random.” The same officer described the decline in German pilot morale over  tha enrina af 1044 ac tha ardar narcictad tn attack anly tha hamhare uthan thair inctinet urae ta nratact thamcalwvac hy anaacina tha anamy fichtare firet Ona nf Carman’e curwvivinag nilate Haing bombers, 25 percent of the total force; the German fighter force lost 43 percent of its strength in the same month. commander explained, “but each pilot simply attacked wildly at random. Result: each of them was shot down wildly at random.”== The same officer described the decline in German pilot morale over the spring of 1944 as the order persisted to attack only the bombers, when their instinct was to protect themselves by engaging the enemy fighters first. One of Germany’s surviving pilots, Heinz Knocke, later published a vivid diary account of what air combat was like for German pilots in the spring of 1944: During the ensuing dogfight with the Thunderbolts my tail-plane was shot full of holes, and my engine and left wing were badly hit also. It is all I c