n July 4 the Air Protection Law was published, defining the responsibilities of the new organization. The Air Protection Department was run by Dr. Kurt  The diary record of his trip—“Jeeping the Targets in a Country That Was”—recorded a shocking catalog of destruction: “Mainz, a shimmering shell... . Darmstadt, a shambles. .. . Frankfurt. Largely was stretched to extremes: “Dusseldorf, not even a ghost . . . all ruins begin to look alike. . .. Cologne, indescribable. One gets a feeling of horror: nothing, nothing is left.” His plane took him back to France five days later. His diarist breathed a sigh of relief: “escape from Gétterdamerung [sic] back to civilization.”? Sydney Bufton went to look at Hamburg and was “greatly impressed,” but shocked at Knipfer, an air-protection expert previously with the Prussian Ministry of Commerce, who held the office down to 1945, despite numerous changes in the organization of the ministry and the nature of civil defense activity. In 1939 the department was placed under Air Force Inspectorate 13 (Air Protection), but Knipfer was able to avoid too much interference from the military side of the air force, which regarded civil defense as a passive subsidiary to the combat role enjoyed by the rest of the service. With the creation of twelve Regional Air Commands (Luftgaukommandos) in 1938, a territorial structure was established for running air-raid protection at the local level. The regional commands were responsible for all active and passive air defense in their area, including the Air Raid Warning Page 229 of 562 40% The Logic of !otal War: German society Under the Bombs was acommunity obligation that matched the wider claims of the German dictatorship to have created a rearmed and psychologically reinvigorated people after years in the democratic wilderness. By Service (Luftschutzwarndienst), emergency repairs, medical aid, decontamination squads, blackout, camouflage policy, and fire protection.® The question of organization wa