ritish cities. These simulated raids showed wide deviation from the putative aiming point, but an average of 50 percent of “hits” within a three-mile radius (four miles for London). The trials showed that H2S worked well over certain urban targets, but poorly over sprawling urban areas or cities surrounded Page 155 of 562 28% 40ST POWER ViITLUALLY O11 LOUT CTISITIES Will) Neavy ICills Alla 1 Lier) LOSt COMLTO! OF thle derOpialle.... it stalled lO GescCena Withl tile WELEIIL Of ICE Alla dt Uilal stabe WE WETE Ilit DY allli-alfCrdait fire... . The aeroplane by this stage was completely out of control with icing ... a very frightening experience. On this occasion pilot and crew survived.48 bombs “on the critical points of the targets.” “It is evident,” he continued, “that our bombing is still not up to the standards that it can be.”18” Cloud, industrial haze, and smoke screens made this of a certain size, the rest falling without.”!22 for the twenty-three H2S raids that could be plotted was 32 percent, a substantial improvement on the Butt Report evidence, but still a low level of concentration.4*2 Research on the first large-scale by hills, as had already been found over Germany. The Operational Research Section of Bomber Command calculated that this was probably the best to be hoped for when bombing cities. Improved though Bomber Command accuracy was from the poor state of 1941, every second bomb was still miles from the aiming point.1% The problems of weather and bombing accuracy highlight a factor about the bombing war that is seldom given the weight it deserves in assessing what was and was not possible for the forces at the Allies’ disposal. The operations mounted week after week during the last two years of war were of unprecedented scale and complexity, employing some of the war’s most sophisticated equipment. For both air forces the pre-raid preparation required all the conventional demands of battle—tactical, logistical, and technical; the intelligence and op