other categories of “poorly specified” or “poorly defined” or “various acts of war” count a further 27,762, some of whom were almost certainly bombing victims.” The total number of seriously injured has not been recorded. In cases where urban to carry on working in the cities on German orders or to help with post-raid rescue and clearance. That the level of casualty was not much higher, given that the weight of bombs dropped in Italy was almost six times the weight dropped on Britain during the Blitz, may owe something to the fact that many of the objectives for the tactical bombing attacks in 1943-45 were against rural or small- town targets rather than major cities. It certainly owed little to any Allied concern to limit damage to Italian society. The Allied view was that Mussolini had brought this destruction on Italy’s head by daring to attack Britain side by side with Germany in 1940: “He insisted in participating in the bombing of England,” claimed one British propaganda leaflet, “and so doing sowed the wind and con- demned [Italians] to harvest the tempest.” In another leaflet produced in July 1943, the British Political Warfare Executive (PWE) reminded Italian readers that “the bombardment of the civil popula- tion is an official Fascist theory.”!”2 In the war of words and bombs, Douhet, Italy’s great theorist of unrestricted strategic bombing, came home to roost. Chapter 6 Bombing Friends, Bombing Enemies: Germany's New Order  Page 356 of 562 61% bombing.” The postwar statistical record drawn up to show the cause of deaths as a result of the war indicated a very precise total of 59,796, though other categories of “poorly specified” or “poorly defined” or “various acts of war” count a further 27,762, some of whom were almost certainly bombing victims.1” The total number of seriously injured has not been recorded. In cases where urban tion is an official Fascist theory.”}”? In the war of words and bombs, Douhet, Italy’s great theorist of unrestricted strategi