tion or illness outside his control.”2° machine caught fire, the mid-upper gunner was badly injured and the rear gunner was killed. ... The rear-gunner’s body was burning and motionless. ... He had to use an axe to hack off bits of the blazing turret and also parts of the rear-gunner’s clothing and body, finally letting the slip-stream blow them all away. ... The wireless, the hydraulics and the tyres had all gone anda crash-landing was made. ... 10 days later he was in a nervous state with tremulous hands and sweaty palms. He had some headaches, felt unable to relax, was depressed, preoccupied and unable to concentrate. His appetite was bad. ... When I asked him how he would sum up his feelings in one word, he said ‘fear.””21° On this occasion the decision was made to allow the officer a spell of noncombat duty, rather than assume cowardice. But there were other cases where fear was imputed by the psychiatrists, often unjustifiably, with the result that an airman could be stripped of his commission and the right to fly. In the RAF, 8,402 aircrew were examined for neurosis from 1942 to 1945, of whom 1,029 were declared LMF, 34 percent of them pilots. The best postwar estimate has suggested that Bomber Command crews provided one-third of those figures, which works out at perhaps 20 per month, a remarkably small proportion of all those regularly exposed to the stress of combat flying.21+ Most medical reports on the air forces indicated high morale despite the high casualty rate. Eaker claimed that morale was not affected so much by losses as by the knowledge that a raid had been ineffective.”12 Psychiatrists nevertheless found that one of the most important motivations was the desire to make it through to the end of the tour still alive. Since only one in four completed one tour, and one in ten a second one, survival remained a primary drive despite the stresses. Research in the Eighth  Air Parca found that a laraa nranartinn af man raturnina ta tha Tnitad Ctatac afta