he American air force. Much of the work of the BBSU was reliant on American research and expertise, a reflection of the rapid shift in the balance of power between the two air forces. The process of collecting files and statistics and interrogating senior German personnel began at once. By the end of May a great many of the key figures had already been interrogated, including Goring, whose transcripts reveal an almost boyish desire to share his knowledge of the German Air Force with the victors. The provisional conclusions among the cohort of German airmen, engineers, and ministerial staff subject to interrogation were almost unanimous. A British intelligence assessment, “Factors in Germany’s Defeat,” produced by May 17, included an interrogation with Adolf  Page 215 of 562 38% weeks. The last raid by the Eighth Air Force was made on April 25 against the Skoda works at Pilsen; the last by the Fifteenth was on April 26 against the Austrian city of Klagenfurt." Spaatz attended Their terms of reference were to examine the effects of bombing on German fighting capacity, the effectiveness of German defenses, and the accuracy of assessments of damage.1*" Already hostage to Galland, who ranked the offensive against transport, then oil, then the air force as the most decisive.1*? In mid-June a full report of interrogation extracts was produced by the director of American air force intelligence at SHAEF, George C. McDonald. They also showed that the three critical targets were considered to be oil facilities (“The general opinion of the German leaders is that the attack on synthetic oil was the decisive factor”), communications (“brought about the final disruption of the German war effort”), and the German Air Force—achieved through attacks on aircraft production, airfields, and combat attrition.1*2 Géring thought the collapse of oil supply to be the single most critical factor—“without fuel, nobody can conduct a war”—while Albert Speer, Hitler’s minister for armaments and w