ed cities, houses that were lightly damaged  Page 294 of 562 51% wartime world in her memoir: “Bombs belonged to my life. 1 was confronted with them daily. I could not do otherwise. . ..I was no longer a child.”22" Protection Law. Persistent negligence, malice, or deliberate defiance was to result in a court appearance, which by 1944 meant facing a justice system dominated by a narrow ideological outlook and a director, Goebbels used his new position to review civil defense all over Germany and to insist on improvements in self-protection organization and communal services.?** By this stage the local War,” another emergency appointment that bore little relation to the conditions on the ground for which he was now ostensibly responsible.?** It is questionable whether Goebbels’s initiatives did air-raid questions, producing simply a “flood of paper” rather than a single, clear administrative path.234 self-protection area.?** In January 1944, Hitler approved further measures to increase the active participation of the population in their own defense, despite the growing risks they faced. He compared part of his fear of this kind of weapon.”2?° The schoolgirl in Berlin whose life was dominated by bombs was expected to tackle and extinguish one of a number of types of Allied incendiary. (“Would you trust yourself to extinguish such a bomb?” asked the fireman demonstrator. “Yes,” she replied.)*2” In May the Luftschutzbund issued instructions to air-protection officials to undertake home visits to itual resolve” of the community for the difficult task ahead.228 months.?° Local repair was allocated to a construction team organized by the Reich defense commissar, with help from mobile columns of skilled workers organized by the Reich Group Handwork. a bombed town, parked their vehicles in undamaged streets or squares, and began work on reconstruction at once.”*° The quantity of residential housing destroyed in 1943 was estimated at 5 percent in one raid might be hit again in