. In spring 1944 the quantity increased substantially to 130 million in March on the eve of the transportation campaign against French railways, and more than 100 million each month until D-Day. So heavy was the bom- bardment of paper that the German authorities in France organized leaflet squads with sharpened sticks to collect them before they were picked up by the local population.*®  The imnact of the leaflet and broadcasting camnaign was difficult for the Allies to assess since almost all the nublic media in Vichv France treated the hombing as an unmediated crime. Allied with full pageantry and speeches condemning the massacre of the innocents.*! Since the Vichy regime was widely unpopular among important sections of the urban population, the bombing was the bombs, and for those widowed or orphaned in the raids." In addition, bomb victims were entitled to welfare assistance from two voluntary welfare organizations, the Secours National (National distributed little of it to the bombed-out and much of it to the officials who ran it.2# The committee did play a part in redistributing to the victims of bombing some of the Jewish apartments and special force of twelve B-17 and B-24 bombers was set up in 1943 tasked with distributing leaflets over the occupied territories as well as across Germany.®? By February 1944 the Americans had The impact of the leaflet and broadcasting campaign was difficult for the Allies to assess since almost all the public media in Vichy France treated the bombing as an unmediated crime. Allied intelligence was faced with a barrage of information showing that the bombing was defined by its “terror character.” One newspaper, the Petit Parisien, following the bombing of Paris in September 1943 claimed that “the barbarians of the West are worthy allies of the barbarians in the East.”22 The Mémorial de St. Etienne asked, “Will this destructive Sadism have no end? One is appalled before this mounting barbarity, this barbarity behind the mask of