uary 1945 as the Red Army drew near. The damage was not extensive and output of methanol (from one of the completed parts of the site) was reduced by only 12 percent. The raids showed, however, that operations over Auschwitz were indeed feasible; only six aircraft were lost despite the strengthening of German defensive measures.1%  The raids against Monowitz took place against the background of a second request for “political” bombing. On August 1, 1944, the Polish Home Army began an armed rising against the German garrison in Warsaw. The Polish army in London requested help from the RAF in the form of military supplies dropped from low altitude over the city. Churchill was once again keen that something should be done.+® The Operation Frantic shuttle bombing to bases in the Ukraine had been temporarily suspended at Soviet insistence, which ruled out supply missions by the Eighth Air Force. Al- objections to French losses, Portal replied that the government “have never shrunk from loss of civilian life where this can be shown to be an inevitable consequence of a considered and agreed plan.”1*® The first time the RAF was invited to bomb the camp at Auschwitz (SEMMmm) in Poland was in January 1941. At that time it was not the extermination and labor complex of Auschwitz-Birkenau, where 1941. “Sporadic attacks” against a target such as Auschwitz were unlikely to be accurate enough to do more than kill many of the prisoners.1*? intelligence of the camp itself. There was extensive reconnaissance material on the nearby Monowitz plant and other war-economic targets around Auschwitz, but although some photographs showed areas of the camp, the extermination center had not been the object of a specific reconnaissance operation.1** Unknown to Spaatz, the War Department in Washington had already been lobbied several There has been much academic argument over the question of whether an operation against the Birkenau extermination facility or the railway lines was feasible or not