els, Antwerp, and Eindhoven to train soldiers for emergency work after a rocket strike.?47 In November 1944 the American brigadier people and children crying . .. some were all white from lying under the ruins. Others bled from a variety of injuries, which were half-bandaged or not covered at all.... More and yet more.”2°° Over the month, promising a full inquiry, but nothing was relayed to the Dutch authorities, who repeated the request in June 1945 for an explanation.2** The Air Ministry told the Foreign Office at the end of paying for this kind of loss there would be no end to our liability.”2=> In all the bombing of New Order Europe a balance was supposed to be struck between political calculation and military imperatives, since the peoples to be bombed were allies or potential allies. The cautious bombing of the first two years of war reflected a balance in favor of political restraint. In some cases bombing was used as a “calling card,” to remind populations under German domination not to collaborate or to encourage confidence in eventual liberation. In some cases the resistance movements called for bombing because they accepted the airmen’s claims about its accuracy and power. However, by the spring of 1942 and on to the end of the war, the pendulum swung slowly in favor of military necessity, while European resisters became disillusioned about what bombing might achieve. In June 1943, Sinclair asked Eden to reconsider the principle that causing casualties to non-German civilians was a sufficient ground for restraint. Eden had a politician’s instinct that killing Allied civilians was the wrongs course hut his renlv to Sinclair swmholized the shift in nriorities: “If the new hamhing nlan is strategically necessarv T shall not of course stand in its waw”256  Page 424 of 562 73% a a i, ae ae a _ of Allied. supplies through the port was described in the official account of the campaign as “negligible.”2*® Against the V-2 rocket, however, there was no defense; the