1944, and once again was undertaken with mixed success because sites were chosen where too much new installation and reconstruction was needed. Efficiency was hit by the requirement to have no unit capable of producing more than 150 aircraft a month. Nevertheless, the company managed to build 50 percent more fighter aircraft in 1944 than in 1943. By contrast, Me110 production at the Gothaer Waggonfabrik in Gotha was more successfully dispersed after the raids in February, so that full production was restored after only a few weeks.2™ The whole dispersal policy ensured that aircraft output would reach a peak of almost 40,000 aircraft in a year when 1 million tons of bombs were dropped on German and German-occupied targets. Bombing might have prevented higher out- put, but the aircraft industry would anyway have faced limitations from raw materials and labor supplies in trying to produce more, with or without bombing.  The decentralization of production did come at a cost, and no doubt overall output would have been higher in 1943 and 1944 without it. The success of the transfer to aboveground sites ensured that overall output could continue its upward trajectory. For those who had to undertake the reorganization, or for the workers forced to transfer to different sites, almost 850,000 by late 1944, the social and psychological costs were considerable. For one thing, managerial and technical personnel had to be distributed among additional small plants, increasing individual responsibility and diluting a  Bewrla lan dnenhin anencn: me nen ternelenen rernen anand In divantler an militaer: avdanen fae chia thar bad nat Lann teainnd av athace vernelenes Gaialler faeniaon av namin lnhaencs) Lad ta La tenn nfaeend fen ._ Ne ee ee cushion of flexibility. By November 1942 most of the 290 businesses producing 100 percent for the air force west of the line Stettin-Berlin-Munich had dispersal plans prepared.?” Over the following The next month, Géring, as “Plenipotentiary for t