ese mandarin? [laughter]. .. . A cloud of all the perfumes of the orient and occident met you half-way exuding over the fat cheeks . . . [All: laughing helplessly].”®* Goring, however, blamed Hitler: “You had a great ally in your aerial warfare—the Fiihrer,” he told interrogators in June 1945.®* From 1942 onward, and particularly after the failure of the air force to not in the end obstruct the shift to fighter priority, favored a heavy antiaircraft defense, authorized the dispersal of industry underground, and bullied the air force into prioritizing improvements in GG6ring aside, the other leadership problems stemmed from lower down the air force tree. The coordinated aerial defense of German territory in 1944 fell to an organization that for years had been experience with just the kind of battle they faced in 1944 and suffered little direct interference from Arnold or Roosevelt in Washington. Although Arnold was also capable at times of irate bluster, he quickly grasped key technical and organizational issues—the importance of the P-51 fighter, the absolute priority for extra fuel tanks, the critical role of logistics—which made his style of management more effective than Géring’s was in 1944 or had been in 1940.” One factor did link the Battle of Britain and the Battle of Germany: the German Air Force did not admit that they had lost either one. In the same document that reflected on how the German Air Force should emulate Fighter Command in 1940, optimistic plans were sketched out for a possible revival of effective fighter defense anda renewed bombing effort, despite the profound crisis now facing German airpower: “The war can only be brought to a satisfactory conclusion if we take the offensive.” Releasing the Hurricane, September 1944—May 1945 The combined offensive was formally reactivated in September 1944 after three months in which the priority for Allied air forces had been supporting the invasion of France and the defeat of German armies in the west. Ei