noted that the whole city area “was virtually devastated.”1£° The death of an estimated 6,000 people was a higher percentage of the city population than in Ham- revived after two or three months to around 90 percent of the pre-raid level.4”° The raid put Kassel for the moment at the top of Bomber Command's list of the proportion of city buildings destroyed or damaged, ahead of Hamburg, 58 percent to 51 percent.“ But Bomber Command lost 43 aircraft, 7.6 percent of the force, a steady attrition of its strength. Over the course of 1943 the command lost 4,026 aircraft, 2,823 in combat.12 not collapse over the winter, the public would think “our ‘full-out’ offensive doesn’t work.”! A paper prepared for Portal in October argued that a failure to demonstrate what strategic bombing could do would have “dangerous repercussions upon post-war policy.”/“4 Both forces wanted the other to help more in pursuit of what was seldom a common ambition. In October, Portal told Eaker and Harris that the Pointblank aim to eliminate the German Air Force as a preliminary to a more sustained offensive had so far failed. “Unless the present build-up of the G.A.F. fighter force is checked,” he continued, “there is a real danger that the average overall efficiency and effectiveness of our bombing attacks will fall to a level at which the enemy can sustain them.” The operational evidence showed that Bomber Command had so far devoted only 2 percent of its effort to fighter aircraft assembly plants (as by-products of area attacks), and Harris was now instructed to launch operations against six  principal cities associated with fighter production.12>  Harris treated the request as he had treated other “panacea” targets. In July he had been briefed to attack Schweinfurt as the most vulnerable link in the chain of German war production. Alongside claims for its importance he scribbled “sez you!” in the margin, and no night raid was made. In December he was told again that his command should bomb Schw