d before in history.” The diary record of his trip—“Jeeping the Targets in a Country That Was”—recorded a shocking catalog of destruction: “Mainz, a shimmering shell... . Darmstadt, a shambles. ... Frankfurt. Largely France five days later. His diarist breathed a sigh of relief: “escape from Gétterdamerung [sic] back to civilization.”2 Sydney Bufton went to look at Hamburg and was “greatly impressed,” but shocked at Community Self-Protection  In 1935 the German Reichsluftschutzbund (Reich Air Protection League) published a poster featuring a stern-faced Hermann Goring above the slogan, “Air defense fighters have as much responsibility and as much honor as every soldier at the front!” The civil defense structure built up in Germany in the 1930s was from the outset more military in character than its British counterpart. The purpose of preparations for a possible bombing war was not simply to provide adequate protection from gas and bombs but to use air-raid precautions as a form of collective social mobilization. Civil defense was a community obligation that matched the wider claims of the German dictatorship to have created a rearmed and psychologically reinvigorated people after years in the democratic wilderness. By 1939, 15 million Germans had joined the Luftschutzbund; by 1942 there were 22 million, almost one-quarter of the population.*  The formal civil defense structure in Germany was intentionally military in nature because it was set up and commanded by the German Air Force when the armed forces were reconstituted in March 1935 in defiance of the Versailles Treaty. From 1933 to 1935 air-raid defense was an office in the German Air Ministry, first set up in September 1933 with Goring as minister. In March 1935 it became part of the new air force structure, and on July 4 the Air Protection Law was published, defining the responsibilities of the new organization. The Air Protection Department was run by Dr. Kurt  The diary record of his trip—“Jeeping the Targe