n base at Habbaniya in Iraq. The unlucky thirteenth aircraft was reported missing.1* Czechoslovakia, and the Yugoslav territories Serbia, Croatia, and Slovenia” certainty.”17° A pamphlet produced under Spaatz’s signature to explain the value of airborne propaganda to American crews (who, like RAF flyers, preferred dropping bombs to paper) claimed that the continued. “The output of the factories suffers as surely as if they had been struck by bombs.”!” A sophisticated technology was developed to ensure that the leaflets fluttered down over a wide area. pounds, fell dangerously on the target population.178  Both the American PWB and the British PWE understood that for eastern Europe the propaganda had to be carefully calibrated to match the circumstances of individual countries, some of which were satellite states of Germany, others the victims of invasion and occupation. For the satellites the propaganda had to suggest the option of abandoning the German alliance and helping the Allies. The leaflet “Take a Decision” dropped in May 1944 on Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, and Finland had this object in mind. Occupied Czechoslovakia, on the other hand, had to be appealed to differently. Intelligence sources suggested that the Czechs felt abandoned by the Allies as they had been at Munich in September 1938, and the figures show that Czechoslovakia indeed received only a fraction of the leaflet drops made on other areas.1”2 Above all, the political initiative had to be related to the possibility or probability of bombing, either as a threat or as a promise. The Czech sources confirmed that workers were waiting for the bombing to start and would add sabotage to anything the bombs failed to destroy. For the satellite states, bombing was seen, like the case of Bulgaria, as a means to bring the war home to these distant and formerly immune peoples. In the summer of 1944 the Western Allies also had to take account of the onrush of the Red Army, which was by now poised to invade ce