r Industries,” 12. to get aircraft production into shelters so that increased output of planes could be used to turn back the bombers and perhaps render the rest of the program redundant. By May 1944 some 10 percent “burrowing away from reality” was the judgment of th  e British Bombing Survey Unit.2"* It is true that most of the dispersal underground was wasted effort. The transfer of BMW aero-engine output  were so poor that preference was given to using the captive workforce, which in the case of BMW made up 13,000 out of 17,000 at the main plant. By the time the vast Volkswagen works at Wolfsburg  was ordered to disperse underground in August 1944, only 15 percent of its 17,000 workers were German.  216 Tt is nonetheless difficult to see what other long-term solution remained to a regime that  refused to surrender and overoptimistically assessed the prospects of survival into 1945 and 1946. When Allied bombing was finally directed at oil production in May 1944, the threat to the vulner-  able capital-intensive sectors of German industry coul  Allied bombing was at its most dangerous in 1944 w  only be solved by either finding effective ways of sheltering it from the bombs or giving up the conflict.  hen it targeted large capital projects in oil and chemicals that could not easily be moved or substituted, unlike ball bearings or aircraft. Following  the first bombing, Hitler on May 31, 1944, approved the appointment of Edmund Geilenberg as yet another emergency manager, this time as general plenipotentiary for emergency measures, with the task of putting fuel production underground or moving it into less exposed aboveground installations. The plan was to create ninety-eight dispersed sites, twenty-two of them under the earth, capable of producing up to four-fifths of all aviation fuel and 88 percent of diesel fuel for tanks. By the end of the war around three-fifths of the preparatory work had been done, but only a small  amount of equipment had been installed. G