defense regulations. Here, the head of the Office of Civilian Defense, Professor James Landis (seated left), is shown a demonstration stirrup pump designed to douse house fires caused by incendiaries. : > In the United States, the outbreak of war brought active civilian defense regulations. Here, the head of the Office of Civilian Defense, Professor James Landis (seated left), is shown a demonstration stirrup pump designed to douse house fires caused by incendiaries.  p = 75% Two RAF crewmen after their return from a combat mission. The strain from operations that resulted in the death of almost half the men who flew is evident. Fear was the emotion most commonly remembered by those who survived, and courage their chief characteristic. we  ‘4 e The dangers faced by bomber crews came from enemy fighters, antiaircraft fire, and the weather. Here, a stricken B-24 Liberator bomber in the Eighth Air Force, on fire and damaged by antiaircraft shells, = The dangers faced by bomber crews came from enemy fighters, antiaircraft fire, and the weather. Here, a stricken B-24 Liberator bomber in the Eighth Air Force, on fire and damaged by antiaircraft shells, struggles to keep flying. tHe Galles LAC VY VOUITLVET CLEWS Callie LOM) CICILY Eslers, alitialiClall Ie, allt LE WEALIICL, FICLE, A OLLICHEI D- 2 LIVELTALOL VOTIVE 1th Uile HIE) salt POLICE, OF LTE all Callladeea VY alitiaiiCralt sil€iis, The “Battle of Germany.” The U.S. strategic air forces aimed to destroy German aircraft production and defeat the German fighter force in the air. Here, two German officials survey the smoking ruins of the Fieseler aircraft plant at Kassel. A rare image of a fighter kill in the air battle over Germany. A German fighter crashes into fields, as photographed by the pursuing aircraft. By May 1944, German fighter pilot losses were running at more than 50 percent a month. An artist’s impression of RAF Lancaster bombers flying low over the Ruhr city of Essen to destroy industrial targets. The cap