The other forms of self-protection involved sites outside the home. “Extended self-protection” was designed for all those buildings that were unoccupied in the evening or at weekends, including commercial offices, warehouses, museums, theaters, and administrative buildings. The system was not needed until war broke out, and it took time to establish, but it ensured that empty buildings did not become easy targets when incendiary bombing began. Work air-raid protection was placed in 1937 under the supervision of Reich Group Industry (Reichsgruppe Industrie). Each factory or plant had its own air defense unit, usually headed by a manager in charge of an emergency organization. Factories had to provide their own shelters and organize lookout schemes, and each one was linked by telephone with the main police control center in the city.14 Again the object was to ensure that a high degree of community commitment would minimize damage and casualties and remove much of the air-protection burden from the public authorities. In the event that a building or workshop was bombed or set on fire, the local self-protection community had to tackle it first, then notify the local officials if it was too difficult to master, only finally receiving intervention from the police and emergency authorities when the incident was too serious. The onus in defending a locality from the effects of a bombing raid lay in the first instance, despite all the claims of the police and the air force, on those who lived and worked there.  The key figure in self-protection was the air-raid warden (Luftschutzwart). These were generally volunteers, men or women, most commonly members or officials from the Luftschutzbund, responsible for a group of apartment houses or a street. Their function was to ensure that air-raid rooms had been prepared, equipment was up to date and available, the blackout was observed, attics  ned anllaen crenen Alanend AL een ntn nd DLink ate aeenedee 2d an nnnn enettan cranes nda