troyed 65 enemy aircraft for the loss of just 7 planes. The high-level Ultra intelligence, produced at Britain’s code and cipher center at Bletchley Park from intercepted German messages, revealed the following day an urgent German order to move all available antiaircraft artillery to protect the synthetic oil plants, including guns that until then had been guarding the aircraft industry. The next raid on May 28 was even more devastating, temporarily destroying output at the oil plants at Leuna and Pélitz in eastern Germany. Spaatz was proved right: the oil targets not only encouraged fierce defense by the German fighter force, but quickly proved debilitating to German forces reliant on a shrinking supply of fuel. Production of aviation fuel was 180,000 tons in March, but had fallen to 54,000 tons in June. So successful were the first attacks that on June 4, two days before the inva- sion of France, Eisenhower gave formal approval for the oil offensive.*2 Page 183 of 562 32% a ee a ee eS ee ee Ee ee ee ee ee ee ee a a prompted a program for underground construction in which aircraft had a priority, a planned 48 million square meters of floor space out of a provisional total of 93 million.*® Output nevertheless attack synthetic oil production.*! On May 12, Spaatz finally sent 886 bombers escorted by 735 fighters to attack six major oil plants across Germany. The force lost 46 bombers (32 of them from a Leuna and P6litz in eastern Germany. Spaatz was proved right: the oil targets not only encouraged fierce defense by the German fighter force, but quickly proved debilitating to German forces reliant sion of France, Eisenhower gave formal approval for the oil offensive.*?  All the while, Spaatz was driving the Eighth Air Force to impose insupportable levels of attrition on the enemy fighter force. When there were no bomber raids, Kepner was encouraged to send his long-range fighters in wide sweeps over German territory, attacking German airbases and seeking opportunitie