nomy.” One was based in Heidelberg, one in Prague, and one in the Rhine-Ruhr, just days before its surrender.22% percent was destroyed from the air, 70 percent by Allied requisitioning.??°  wartime world in her memoir: “Bombs belonged to my life. I was confronted with them daily. I could not do otherwise. . ..I was no longer a child.”222 Regiments” under air force control.?#° His new role introduced a fresh element of menace into the regular work of civil defense. On April 14 he published a decree threatening tough punishment Protection Law. Persistent negligence, malice, or deliberate defiance was to result in a court appearance, which by 1944 meant facing a justice system dominated by a narrow ideological outlook anda search for vengeance.2#4 For many of those engaged in civil defense, whether Ukrainians in the fire service or camp prisoners detailed to clear up urban debris, the SS was effectively their lawless master.  Goebbels found it difficult to maintain his position in the face of Himmler’s ambitions. In December 1943, frustrated that the Inter-Ministerial Committee had too little power, Goebbels persuaded Hitler to make him Reich inspector for civil air protection. With the gauleiter of Westphalia-South, Albert Hoffmann, as his deputy, and a collaborator from the committee, Alfred Berndt, as his office director, Goebbels used his new position to review civil defense all over Germany and to insist on improvements in self-protection organization and communal services.222 By this stage the local responsibility for coping with the aftermath of raids had passed entirely to the Reich defense commissars, with whom Goebbels kept in close contact. In September 1944 the commissars were formally acknowledged as the key coordinating figures in the defence of the Reich, at which point the party also assumed the public political role of preparing the German people for their final ordeal. By this time Goebbels had abandoned the inspectorate, which had done little more th