T ELOUDS WETS flight across Germany, 12,000 feet again at the European coast, and not below 7,000 feet on crossing back over English territory. Then came the debriefing interviews and the post-raid assessments.1°> from Gdansk to Gibraltar?”2“” Their labors proved most effective with assessments of damage to capital-intensive targets such as oil refineries or synthetic oil and rubber producers. This material was manders had an obligation, according to a manual on tactics, “to work out each mission in minute detail. The struggle here is of the life and death variety.”12 a target and got the hell out and got home, there wasn’t much glamour about it,” remembered another. Their primary loyalty was to the other crews about them. “I never worried about the people down below,” said one pilot. “I was more concerned with the ones in the air.” This was perhaps an understandable moral concern. The permanent dangers to which an aircrew was exposed and the sheer mental and physical demands of combat, surrounded at times by dead or dying companions, with jammed guns or engines knocked out, created a temporary nightmare world in which the one hope was that their aircraft and crew would not be next. After the Regensburg raid one American commander who reached Tunisia reported that he and his crew “felt the reaction of men who had not Page 159 of 562 28% weighing up its vulnerability and the capacity of the air forces to destroy it by researching its potential structural weaknesses and susceptibility to damage.1*° The material was collected and evaluated the German equivalent. In the evenings they relaxed from their efforts by working out fruitless statistical teasers—“‘How many sheep are there in Bavaria?” “What is the most economical land route from Gdansk to Gibraltar?”!®? Their labors proved most effective with assessments of damage to capital-intensive targets such as oil refineries or synthetic oil and rubber producers. This material was (near the target run-in), altitudes, aim