ed the words off his tongue as if they were tasty morsels.” Later that day Churchill was quent combined campaign on which both sides were agreed.”° ing.21 The army and navy commanders at Casablanca devoted almost nothing in their memoirs to the arguments over bomber strategy. The projection of airpower against Germany was essentially direction of the bomber offensive, but Portal thought it more prudent not to advertise the change to his prickly subordinate, and on February 4, Harris was sent only the Casablanca Directive.2# protection from the demands of other theaters and services. “We always feel,” Eaker wrote to Portal in late August 1943, “that our guardian and greatest friend is away when you are absent.”28 The about conditions in Europe, and frustrated by the long distances. Eaker relied on Portal to supply bases and equipment and benefited from the chief of staff’s familiarity with the offensive and with the political arguments that surrounded it. Harris had none of these difficulties. He communicated regularly with Portal and Churchill in defense of his command prerogatives and tolerated as little interference as possible. The two air forces maintained liaison staff at each other’s headquarters, and on occasion collaborated on a common target, but there was no mechanism for shared command. The American mission statement for the offensive described the bombing as “a joint assignment, completely complementary,” which it was, but it remained combined in name rather than fact.2®  The divide between the two air forces was explicit on the question of their strategic priorities. The Casablanca Directive required little adjustment for Bomber Command, which had been attacking German morale and destroying industrial cities for several years with the aim of fatally weakening the enemy. Harris remained doggedly resistant to the idea that specific target systems were strategically valuable in themselves and was hostile to the diversion of his force for other purposes. Bo