e than 2 million people had been transferred under official programs.1? The immediate evacuation of 900,000 from Hamburg was a result of the panic that occurred as Operation Gomorrah intensified. By the end of September 1943, 545,000 had been settled in regions across Germany, more than one-quarter in the neighboring rural areas of Schleswig-Holstein, almost one-third in and around the south German town of Bayreuth. The firestorm in Hamburg provoked widespread fear that Berlin would be next. From a marked reluctance to accept transfer away from the city, Berliners now flooded out, 691,000 by mid-September. Around 1.1 million altogether left the German capital, one-quarter of the prewar population. The urban exodus provoked widespread problems, not least because it had not been systematically planned for, as it had been in Britain, and finding and allocating spare accommodation—often just a room in a village house—had to be improvised at short notice. There were obvious sources of friction between a small-town and rural population, not yet much exposed to the physical effects of the bombing war, and an urban population used to different standards or from a very different social milieu. A report sent to the Party Chancellery from Upper Silesia in May 1943 highlighted some  Page 263 of 562 46% Dullding or apartment Kept adequate quantities of water available to tackle a small fre before 1t spread. 1 he more water stored, tne better; use was to be Made oF ali avaliable containers wnatever, not only buckets, pails, bathtubs and rain barrels, but even washbasins, washtubs etc.” Water could even be removed from central heating systems.!*° Each air-protection room now had to contain its own than appears in the first moment.”!25 neighbor Gessert, which the householder put out.”!27 For the regular fire service, the onset of heavy firebombing raids placed a strain on units that were already depleted by regular culls of manpower remove the population from areas of severe bomb d