r than ever in his mind.®? and Spaatz, but persistent poor weather rendered “Hurricane II” unworkable, while “Hurricane I” was too amorphous in ambition and was largely ignored. Italy in 1943-44, then in the invasion of France. He was strongly supported by Solly Zuckerman, who had been responsible for working out the Italian plan, and was now advising SHAEF.1° Tedder’s bombing was impaired, as well as policing attacks on the German Air Force organization and, when required, direct support of land operations.‘ Bombing preferences in fact remained divided: Spaatz, easily accomplished!” In a famous exchange of letters with Portal (his were drafted by Bufton) in December 1944, Harris rejected the oil plan on the grounds that it would need a quarter of a million tons of bombs and months of effort to achieve it 1% The effect of differences of opinion can be exaggerated. Allied airpower was now so overwhelming and technically sophisticated that attacks anywhere contributed to the cumulative collapse of the German war effort, and could be carried out with small losses. Harris diverted some of his area raids to the Ruhr-Rhineland synthetic oil installations in November and December, and ordered a heavy attack on Leuna-Merseburg on December 6-7 that, though deep in German territory, cost only 5 bombers from a force of 475. From 6 percent of its bombing total on oil in October, Bomber Command increased the total to 24 percent the following month. That same month the Eighth Air Force devoted 39 percent of its total on oil targets, the Fifteenth Air Force 32 percent. Despite justified fears that German efforts would be focused entirely on reconstituting oil production, the long-term trend of the oil attacks since the beginning of the year was to create a critical level of loss, whose effects on German military mobility and airpower | were indeed fundamentally debilitating (see table 3.2). Most of Harris’ S attacks were nevertheless devoted to night raids on urban targets, partic