mbing was intention. The civilian and the civilian milieu  of a certain size, the rest falling without.”22 for the twenty-three H2S raids that could be plotted was 32 percent, a substantial improvement on the Butt Report evidence, but still a low level of concentration.1*? Research on the first large-scale flight across Germany, 12,000 feet again at the European coast, and not below 7,000 feet on crossing back over English territory. Then came the debriefing interviews and the post-raid assessments.1°> weighing up its vulnerability and the capacity of the air forces to destroy it by researching its potential structural weaknesses and susceptibility to damage.1*° The material was collected and evaluated by the Enemy Objectives Unit based in the American embassy in London under the leadership of Colonel Richard D’Oyly Hughes, a former British officer who had taken American citizenship in the early 1930s. His team of economists visited British industrial plants to work out the most vulnerable part of each type of target and then applied the knowledge to detailed photographic material on the German equivalent. In the evenings they relaxed from their efforts by working out fruitless statistical teasers—“‘How many sheep are there in Bavaria?” “What is the most economical land route from Gdansk to Gibraltar?”!®? Their labors proved most effective with assessments of damage to capital-intensive targets such as oil refineries or synthetic oil and rubber producers. This material was taken and put into operationally useful form for air force units.  pet et at at et i te a 8 i ee ite ae ee tet ett ee te tea ta te  Page 157 of 562 28% of a certain size, the rest falling without.”2%2 for the twenty-three H2S raids that could be plotted was 32 percent, a substantial improvement on the Butt Report evidence, but still a low level of concentration.1®? Research on the first large-scale though Bomber Command accuracy was from the poor state of 1941, every second bomb was still miles fr