re “unity and planning.””° The choice of the new commissar was not an obvious one, and his actual powers, as so often in the Third Reich, were poorly defined, though he evidently benefited from direct and regular access to Hitler. Goebbels’s principal claim was his concern with monitoring and molding popular opinion, which his local propaganda offices watched closely. Reports on raids were routinely sent to his office as party Reich leader of propaganda, which left him better informed about the national picture than most other political or military leaders. Moreover, Goebbels was a gauleiter himself, representing Berlin; his new office was designed to ensure that the local party leadership should play a fuller part in managing bombed communities. His appointment confirmed the increasing “partification” of the whole civil defense project.  The roots of this new configuration could be found much earlier in the war. The Party Chancellery, directed by Rudolf Hess, had a Mobilization Department (Abteilung-M), which drew up guidelines for the role of party organizations in the event of war. The NSV was detailed to take on responsibility for providing post-raid welfare, including evacuation, and to wear green armbands with “Luftschutz-NSDAP” sewn on them to show that they were independent of the air force or police. In the autumn of 1940, Martin Bormann, Hess’s deputy, drew up a list of nine civil defense activities formally under Goéring’s authority, in which the party claimed a role. They included controlling behavior in shelters, checking on the blackout, supplying candidates for air-raid warden who possessed euvouUrvall dl€ds OF LIE odie City, OF LO UME LIEU ALe PUiadl LUTE TALI. AL Was OLLY AVAMAUIC LOL WOITEII, CLIULeH, allt LIE CIV ly, VUL TOL LOL ally GEliilall JOWo, LOL WilOlt) 110 OlliCial PLOVIsSIOI Was allowed.®° Evacuation remained voluntary and was presented to the population as a welfare measure, run exclusively by the party through the National Socialist Pe