t bombing was Gods punishment for having pushed the jews over the frontier and thrown them into poverty. ~~ in july 1745 the end of the world.”5! The summer of 1943 encouraged a sense of extremes. The news from Hamburg, which reached Bavaria in August, was, wrote one diarist, “beyond the grasp of the imagination .. . “This time those riders now saddling their black steeds are none other than the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.”!*2 will it go?”154 Even Goebbels was affected by the evidence of the first really sustained bombing campaign. On March 13 he wrote in his diary that “air warfare is at present our greatest worry. Things simply cannot go on like this.”454 The difficulty for those charged with the psychological welfare of the population—the party called it Menschenfiihrung—was to separate out the different factors no details about the number of casualties and the damage to buildings. In March 1943 a brief but clear communiqué was given about a raid on Berlin, which immediately won wide public approval.45 But only in the case of the raid on the Rhineland dams were precise casualty figures given, to stop the rumors that 10,000-30,000 people had died.1*2 Rather than yield to public pressure to give precise the public that the German Air Force was taking revenge on the enemy population and would do so with new, powerful but secret weapons in the near future.1® ultimatum: if they do not cease the air war at once, another vengeance speech will follow.”!*! By then rumors about a new missile were in circulation and there were popular hopes that a definite tide of war and should no longer be used for propaganda purposes.1® Instead Goebbels used the Jewish question both as a way to explain the bombing war and as an instrument to encourage German  expressed through the “bombing murder of the Jewish-plutocratic enemy,” and called for a fanatical defense of German race and culture. were strong demands that the dead in bombing raids should be marked in the newspapers with a