erman territory in the last months of 1943 had contributed to the escalating loss rates imposed on each bombing mission.** The electronic war, which reminded the female volunteers, “The woman ina soldier’s post but still a woman!”2> The antiaircraft batteries by 1944 were organized increasingly in large groups of heavy guns—Grossbatterien made had been centralized under Albert Speer’s Ministry of Armaments and War Production, and partly because of Géring’s renewed efforts to revive German offensive airpower by switching resources to production structure.?? In February the two men reached an agreement to run together an emergency “Fighter Staff” (Jagerstab) with Saur as its director, and it was established with Hitler’s agreement on March 1, 1944. Asaresult, in 1944 three times as many fighters were produced than in 1943, in the hope that this would be sufficient to hold back the Allied bombers long enough to allow the whole German aircraft program to revive and expand.22 who enjoyed dedicated fighter training in an entirely bomb-free environment.*? The result was that by early 1944 the German fighter force was obtaining an average net gain every month of only twenty-six new pilots. The stalemate inflicted on the bomber forces in the autumn created the illusion of German success. In reality the German Air Force was a brittle shield. The declining skills and rising losses of the German day-fighter force were magnified by the insistence that the object for the force as a whole was to destroy the enemy bomber. This, too, had been a problem for RAF Fighter Command in 1940, when the choice had to be made between stopping the German bombers or fighting their intruding fighter force. German Air Force tactics worked effectively as long as their fighters could seek combat in areas where the bomber force was unescorted. The introduction of longer escort runs in late 1943 transformed the battlefield, though the German Air Force was slow to adapt to the changed reality. Gdring f