ertake home visits to every house and apartment in their sector to provide up-to-date information for each householder, to ensure that every resident was materially prepared to assist, and to try to strengthen the “spir- itual resolve” of the community for the difficult task ahead.238 The priority by 1944, with heavy raids on Berlin and other cities deeper in German territory, was to try to save as much as possible of German urban life and the populations still living there. Even while Allied aircraft remorselessly reduced the habitable areas of major cities, the effort to repair or recondition damaged housing continued so that workers who remained could have some kind of shelter. The repair of bomb-damaged housing was governed by two decrees issued by Speer as general plenipotentiary for construction on September 15 and 16, 1943, which gave priority to getting working-class housing habitable again to reduce lost work time. Only those houses that could be repaired easily and immediately were to be tackled; nothing was permitted that took more than three months.??° Local repair was allocated to a construction team organized by the Reich defense commissar, with help from mobile columns of skilled workers organized by the Reich Group Handwork. These motorized emergency units—for doors/windows, roof repair, shop windows, and room interiors—were functioning by October 1943 and fully funded by July the following year. They arrived in a bombed town, parked their vehicles in undamaged streets or squares, and began work on reconstruction at once.2*° The quantity of residential housing destroyed in 1943 was estimated at 5 percent of the housing stock, but during 1944 the figures mounted sharply, making it difficult to keep pace with the program of repair. In the most heavily bombed cities, houses that were lightly damaged  Page 294 of 562 51% wartime world in her memoir: “Bombs belonged to my life. 1 was confronted with them daily. I could not do otherwise. . ..I was no longe