t on fire. The raid resulted from PWE pressure to undertake an attack on at least one industrial target in each occupied state to discourage collaboration and to reinforce local morale. In the Danish case the raid proved a success: there were few casualties, and in the aftermath Danes took to wearing RAF colors as a mark of sympathy with a distant ally. The only raid by the Eighth Air Force was against Esbjerg airfield on the west coast of Jutland on August 27, 1944, bombed as a target of opportunity follow- ing an aborted raid on Berlin. Over the whole course of the war 307 Danes were killed as a result of all Allied air activity and 788 injured.24° Operations against Norway were also linked closely to the air-sea war, but Norway differed from Denmark because there were important industrial and raw material resources that the Germans exploited throughout the occupation, particularly aluminum production and the development of “heavy water” for the German nuclear research program. Both were attacked by the Eighth Air Force, the aluminum plant at Heréya on July 24, 1943, the Norsk Hydro plant on November 16. Spaatz was pleased with the result and thought “it was heartening to the Norwegians.”24! Far from being heart- ened, the Norwegian government complained that the destruction of the Norsk Hydro plant, which produced a large quantity of Scandinavia’s much-needed fertilizer, had provoked “bewilderment and dismay” among the Norwegian population as they contemplated declining food output. The small heavy water plant had been successfully sabotaged by the Norwegian Resistance some months before. The Norwegian foreign minister, Trygve Lie, asked the Allies to agree upon a means of collaborating on the choice of targets to avoid further mishaps. It took almost a year of argument before an agreed list was drawn up. British air marshals, Lie complained, were a law unto themselves.242 When the Air Ministry presented a list of seven targets they would like to bomb, the Norweg