litary targets had to be identified, and if the prospect of a “large error” occurred that was likely to lead to civilian casualties, the operation was supposed to be aborted.?#& The systematic bombing of military and industrial targets in the Low Countries only began in 1943 when the Eighth Air Force used its heavy and medium bombers for attacks on targets near enough for fighter protection so that novice crews could be initiated into operational practice with fewer immediate risks, the very policy condemned by the Dutch when bombing started in 1941. The result was an immediate disaster. A daylight raid on Rotterdam on March 31, 1943, cost an estimated 400 lives; an attack that was supposed to hit the German Erla aircraft plant near Antwerp instead devastated the town of Mortsel, killing 926 Belgians, including 209 children in four schools hit by the bombs. The bombing of Mortsel resulted in the worst casualties of the war from a single raid on the Low Countries. No warning leaflets had been dropped and the town was crowded with people. In addition to the dead, a further 1,342 were injured, 587 seriously, while 3,424 houses were damaged or destroyed. In the Erla works, 222 workers were killed.21” Although heavy damage was done to the aircraft plant, the bombs were strewn over a wide residential area. The Eighth Air Force post-raid assessment showed that only 78 out of 383 bombs dropped came within 2,000 feet (600 meters) of the target.?8 For the residents of the town the raid was a shocking realization of the horrors of aerial war. “I heard the screams of dving schoolchildren.” recalled one witness. “I heard the grief-stricken cries of desperate mothers and fathers. searching in the ruins for their beloved children. ... 1 saw  Page 414 of 562 N% the Allies were already cooling and stalin was unwilling to allow Western intelligence officers access to the bomb sites in the soviet-controuled regions of Lurope. In July 1945 some of the Usobo team found to the German Air