af 1044  Page 192 of 562 34% and I thought: is it Nero II or a Chinese mandarin? [laughter]. .. . A cloud of all the perfumes of the orient and occident met you half-way exuding over the fat cheeks . . . [All: laughing helplessly].”® Goring, however, blamed Hitler: “You had a great ally in your aerial warfare—the Fiihrer,” he told interrogators in June 1945.®° From 1942 onward, and particularly after the failure of the air force to the same document that reflected on how the German Air Force should emulate Fighter Command in 1940, optimistic plans were sketched out for a possible revival of effective fighter defense and a renewed bombing effort, despite the profound crisis now facing German airpower: “The war can only be brought to a satisfactory conclusion if we take the offensive.””4 Releasing the Hurricane, September 1944-May 1945 has still got a lot of fight left in him... we must concentrate to kill him off.””* By July, Harris was impatient to restart full-scale bombing because he expected Germany to have recovered fully in five bomb-free months. In August, Portal warned Churchill that there were evident signs of German revival, which would have to be snuffed out by a bombing policy of “continuous attrition.” reconstruct the strategic situation as it seemed to the Western Allies in the autumn of 1944. The most obvious answer is that there was no compelling reason after the rapid victory in France to ease the pressure on an enemy who, it was hoped, might be defeated before Christmas. There was wide popular endorsement of the bombing campaign among the home populations. The percentages in favor of bombing German civilians expressed in British opinion polls rose from less than half in 1940 to almost two-thirds by 1944, a reflection of popular anxiety to end the war quickly and a growing familiarity with bombing as a central pillar of Allied strategy.* The BBC air commentaries in 1944 by “Squadron Leader Strachey” (the left-wing politician John Strachey, now a temp