ood that the social and psychological consequences of heavy bombing were likely to have wider ramifications for social cohesion and war willingness. During 1942 the balance in the air-protection structure swung heavily toward the party and away from the Air Ministry and the police. The key figure was the Minister for Popular Enlightenment and Propaganda, Joseph Goebbels. In late April, Hitler agreed to give him special responsibility as commissar for organizing immediate help measures for those areas where the local authorities could not cope. All local party Gaue (and not the Regional Air Commands or the Order Police) were to notify Goebbels’s ministry at once if help was needed. Goebbels told the gauleiters that the watchwords were “unity and planning.””* The choice of the new commissar was not an obvious one, and his actual powers, as so often in the Third Reich. were voorlv defined. though he evidentlv benefited from direct and regular access to Hitler. Goebbels’s principal claim was his concern with monitoring and molding  Page 248 of 562 43% ON ES a ee ee eee eS es ee ee ee eee Ne eee eee handing their children over to party organizations.”° The SD reports for 1941 show a declining concern among the wider public over the air raids, but regular interest in the wider news of the war, the record for steadfastness by demonstrating to the world the inner resolve of the German people.”1 (just over 300 died in the raid, the worst casualties so far); reports to Berlin observed an immediate improvement in air defense discipline in other cities.” The raid was swiftly followed by a series of state.” Their aim was rapidly to re-create “the normal conditions of daily life in every area.””> ministry at once if help was needed. Goebbels told the gauleiters that the watchwords were “unity and planning.””° The choice of the new commissar was not an obvious one, and his actual powers, as so often in the Third Reich, were poorly defined, though he evidently benefited from direct