s proved most effective with assessments of damage to capital-intensive targets such as oil refineries or synthetic oil and rubber producers. This material was (near the target run-in), altitudes, aiming point, rally point (just outside target area), and route back. The resulting field order was then sent by teletype to the combat units involved.1%8 A second procedure then took place at the airbases of the different bombardment wings, with an operational briefing for all commanders and crew for approximately two anda half hours covering the following: manders had an obligation, according to a manual on tactics, “to work out each mission in minute detail. The struggle here is of the life and death variety.”422 expected to see another sunset.” He recommended reducing the standard tour of thirty operations to twenty-five if crew were not to collapse from the psychological pressure. “Survival was our thing,” concluded one veteran.2°°  The success of bombing operations depended almost entirely on the quality and training of the crews, but the pressures to which they were subjected placed often insupportable demands on their psychological equilibrium. This situation arose not only because of the natural stresses of combat, but because of the curious social situation in which bomber crews found themselves. Although they were regularly called upon for operations that provided hours of tension and endeavor, once back at base there might be days, sometimes longer, before the next operation. In that interval crews were free to go to the local town, meet girls, reunite with wives or partners, and enjoy a variety of forms of recreation. Cinema attendance at Eighth Air Force bases reached a million a month by November 1943, stage-show attendance 150,000.2°! This meant that bomber crews had a cycle of relief and anxiety distinct from the emotional pattern of ground combat troops. In the first years of the offensive, survival rates were low, so that life at base was also about reco