o bring the war home to these distant and formerly immune peoples. In the summer of 1944 the Western Allies also had to take account of the onrush of the Red Army, which was by now poised to invade central and southeastern Europe. The PWE assessment of bombing Bucharest, for example, pointed out that bombs might increase Romanian “depression,” but were unlikely to induce defection  Foam tha ume an tha Damanian ave otenmelad dannavataler ta lann tha Carint ineadave at har Dambhe deanna. A An Uninenerr carnen eanardad aa manen nenfal ne tha ernuld vamind tha Lianaavian eacnen  Page 404 of 562 69% “to remind the Soviet of consequences of acceding to German demands.”!” Planning was completed by August 1941, but once again operational and strategic reality prevented a campaign in which at ERIM, but instead they dropped their bombs wherever they could; three returning aircraft landed at Ankara airport, two at Aleppo in Syria, one at Mosul, two more at other desert airfields, and only Czechoslovakia, and the Yugoslav territories Serbia, Croatia, and Slovenia1“ continued. “The output of the factories suffers as surely as if they had been struck by bombs.”!”” A sophisticated technology was developed to ensure that the leaflets fluttered down over a wide area. pounds, fell dangerously on the target population.17® from the war as the Romanian army struggled desperately to keep the Soviet invaders at bay. Bombs dropped on Hungary were regarded as more useful, as they would remind the Hungarian govern- ment and population that they had to do more to sever their connection with Germany./®° Even against satellite states, the political warfare officers recommended attacks only on evidently military targets so as to avoid alienating the populations that were to be liberated from German domination. Czech informers made it clear that as allies, the Czech people should not be subjected to area bomb- ing, which would provoke “serious resentment.”!®! The Yugoslav partisan armies welcomed