uary 1, 1943, an entirely Canadian group, No. 6, was activated under the command of Air Vice Marshal G. E. Brookes. It was spread out across the Yorkshire countryside, with headquarters at Allerton Hall, nicknamed “Dismal Castle” on account of its gloomy aspect. In total, fifteen Canadian squadrons were formed, though like the Australian units they were not composed entirely of Canadians. The exception was the French Canadian squadron, formed in autumn 1942, where a great effort was made to ensure that it received only French- Page 120 of 562 22% included a deficiency of 65 percent of aircraft fitters (I Class), the most important category, and an overall shortage of two-fifths of skilled technicians and more than a third of all other trades.48 There forces.*! Other British aircrew were also posted to training schools in the United States under the so-called Arnold Scheme. In April 1941 the American army agreed to allow British participation in the the failure rate in the United States was high because of the poor level of scientific education among British recruits, and the scheme petered out in 1942.5? Although crew were trained for a variety of The training program was the prelude to a great expansion of COmmonwealth and European participation in the bombing war. There were Free French, Dutch, Norwegian, Czech, and Polish crews speaking aircrew.**  The Eighth Air Force was, by contrast, an almost entirely American effort. The structure of the force set up by Spaatz and then Eaker differed from Bomber Command because it also included its own fighter, training, and air service commands, which were regarded as integral to the bombing campaign. When Eaker replaced Spaatz as commander of the Eighth Air Force late in 1942, he appointed Colonel Newton Longfellow, commander of the Second Bombardment Wing, to take over the Eighth Bomber Command. The force was divided into three air divisions and then into combat wings, each with its own tactical headquarters, each wing ma