ds or relatives at once could be found substitute housing, particularly former Jewish homes, with priority for families with children whose houses had been completely destroyed. Evacuation was recommended only in exceptional circumstances, and then to areas if possible within the same urban region. or the same Gau. Over 7,000 were rehoused within two davs. The salvaged goods had to be left in the street. clearlv marked (to prevent looting). where thev were collected  Page 251 of 562 44% the home front. The gauleiter of Munich later recalled that from 1942 onward his work came to consist almost entirely of “defence from the enemy air war, activation of civilian air protection.””® system could no longer cope.”® The arrangement made explicit the shift of responsibility toward the party and the collapse of the air force monopoly, but the demarcation left a great many gray areas. help should be requested from the Party Chancellery, the Propaganda Ministry, and the Interior Ministry. But this arrangement merely confirmed a state of improvised confusion.*®° At the beginning of leader was the key figure, given temporary emergency powers to get help from within and outside the raided area and to apply it swiftly and ruthlessly to the catastrophe.®? “Self-protection” was to every German citizen, man and woman.* In practice, not everyone was required to serve, but the proportion could be very substantial. In the small Rhineland town of Bingen, with a population of life as quickly as possible.”®> Though this was not easy in the few major cities where repeated heavy bombing began in 1943, the object of the new “action culture” was to make sure that one way for between 25,000 and 40,000 people in converted cafés, schools, restaurants, and boardinghouses.®* There they were given food, spirits, cigarettes, substitute ration cards, and a provisional sum, in within the same urban region, or the same Gau. Over 7,000 were rehoused within two days. The salvaged goods had to be left in t