led 63 civil defense first-aid cases, 402 civilian injuries, sent 138 off in ambulances, and recovered 38 buried bodies and 33 people still alive.2”2 Two weeks later Regiment 3 sent three companies extinguished 119 small and 60 major fires, and extracted 36 bodies from the rubble, followed by summons to a further seventeen raids between February 27 and March 21.78 As the military fronts that night. The day before the February raid was, according to Victor Klemperer, a German-Jewish philologist who had survived in Dresden married to a non-Jew, one of “perfect spring weather.”*8+ gees the following morning with his wife, who had been saved only because someone had pulled her from the Jewish into the “Aryan” shelter below their apartments: Fires were still burning in many of the buildings on the road above. At times, small and no more than a bundle of clothes, the dead were scattered across our path. The skull of one had been torn away, the top of the head was a dark red bowl. Once an arm lay there with a pale, quite fine hand, like a model made of wax such as one sees in barbers’ shop windows. . . . Crowds  streamed unceasingly between these islands, past these corpses and the smashed vehicles, up and down the Elbe, a silent, agitated procession.2&2  Klemperer was fortunate to survive. He was treated by first-aid workers that morning as American aircraft returned to bomb what was left of the city. By the evening food arrived and then water. The following morning the refugees were moved to the nearby towns of Klotsche and Meissen, where there were plentiful bowls of soup. Klemperer tore off the yellow star all Jews were required to wear and survived the war.  Vlamnacacle otave ia a vamindas that tha anatam hain hambhad otil] neantinnd ite lathal eaniam tn tha ener lant urmalrs nf tha ure thaiucch it alan damanoatentas that avan urmavina tha otas ha nauld ant  Page 309 of 562 53% hours packing parcels for the bombed-out, or visiting the wounded.?”* Throughout 1944 advic