rther 95 million by balloon. Political warfare leaflets are loaded onto an RAF bomber for delivery over occupied Germany. During the war, more than 1.4 billion leaflets were dropped by aircraft in the propaganda war against the Axis, and a further 95 million by balloon. 75% An RAF bomb store in October 1940. Rows of 500-pound bombs are waiting to be loaded onto Bomber Command aircraft for another night raid against Germany after five months of almost uninterrupted operations against German targets. be 7, is a ee Page 438 of 562 75% = The Combined Bomber Offensive in action. The picture shows British and American air leaders at dinner in 1943. Seated facing the camera from left to right are Carl Spaatz, Charles Portal, Frederick Anderson, Ira Eaker (standing), Arthur Harris, and James Doolittle. In the center foreground is Trafford Leigh-Mallory. 7 Though relations between the RAF and the U.S. Eighth Air Force could be strained, publicity stunts, like this one on an RAF base, were designed to ease the tension. Here, members of a U.S. aircrew write messages on a British bomb destined for Germany. Though relations between the RAF and the U.S. Eighth Air Force could be strained, publicity stunts, like this one on an RAF base, were designed to ease the tension. Here, members of a U.S. aircrew write messages 75% Women workers at a Boeing plant in Seattle assemble electrical components for the B-17 bomber. As men were recruited to the services, women came to play a vital part in American war production. = HA Gi Tith\ Women workers at a Boeing plant in Seattle assemble electrical components for the B-17 bomber. As men were recruited to the services, women came to play a vital part in American war production. 75% In the United States, the outbreak of war brought active civilian defense regulations. Here, the head of the Office of Civilian Defense, Professor James Landis (seated left), is shown a demonstration stirrup pump designed to douse house fires caused by incendiaries.