nistry had already begun a program of dispersal in October 1942, when cushion of flexibility. By November 1942 most of the 290 businesses producing 100 percent for the air force west of the line Stettin-Berlin-Munich had dispersal plans prepared.?© Over the following The next month, Goring, as “Plenipotentiary for the Four-Year Plan,” ordered complete “evacuation of war-essential industry from the core of major cities.”2°! meant that by January 1944 reserves of ball bearings were three times greater than in January 1943. Machine tools for production at Schweinfurt were by January 1944 back to 94 percent of require- ments. Production was decentralized so that less than half was left in Schweinfurt itself, the rest spread out among twenty other producers. The whole ball-bearing industry in Germany was served in the end by forty-nine dispersal plants; only 20 percent of national production remained in Schweinfurt a year after the main attack. The output of aircraft and tanks, which relied extensively on ball bearings, was affected hardly at all thanks to design changes. By the time ball-bearing supply was back to its pre-raid level, aircraft production was 58 percent greater, tank production 54 percent.2  The dispersal of the aircraft industry indicated another cushion of productive capacity, even if in some cases in 1944 assembly or repair had to be improvised in farm barns, wooded shelters, or road tunnels. The second wave of dispersal following the planned decentralization in 1942-43 came after the Allied air attacks in “Big Week” in February 1944. Although the production loss was small and soon made good, the decision was taken by the German Fighter Staff to decentralize all aircraft and aero-engine production even further in case the campaign intensified. The 27 main assembly plants were divided among 729 smaller units, though in the end only around 300 were used; aero-engine output was divided from 51 plants (in many cases already dispersed once) to 249 new sites