s own friction. In Milan in February 1943, German antiaircraft guns opened up on four Italian fighters, forcing them to abandon their operation. When the local Italian commander complained, the German antiaircraft unit told him that as far as they were concerned Italian fighter pilots flew at their own risk.24  Italian Air Force leaders had counted from at least 1941 onward on German assistance in supplying aircraft, aero-engines, and advanced machine tools for the Italian aviation industry, but supply never matched requirements. A total of 706 German aircraft were delivered to Italian units over the whole course of the war, some 448 in the period when Italy was an Axis ally. The figure was a fraction of German outvut. and was divided among fifteen different tvpes. of varving aualitv. Some 300 were Me109s. but most of these were supplied in 1943 and 1944 to the new National Revublican ‘ifs situation Changed suddenly and dramatically ror the itallan population if tate Uctober 1742 when the War in INOrth Arrica turned in the Alles favor at bi Alamein, Pouowed DY the ifivasion strike in the enclosed courtyard would maximize the blast effect of a bomb.”? The Air Ministry nevertheless remained confident that incendiary damage in Italian cities would still be greater than were by night. By September 1942, Italian night fighters had flown only 380 hours on operations, compared with 158,100 hours for day fighters.*° Searchlights, antiaircraft batteries, and radar were batteries of 90-millimeter guns were never met.2” Fighters were supposed to provide protection during the day, when there were few, if any, raids, while antiaircraft fire was supposed to defend at as Brescia and Venice.*? This situation could produce its own friction. In Milan in February 1943, German antiaircraft guns opened up on four Italian fighters, forcing them to abandon their operation. When the local Italian commander complained, the German antiaircraft unit told him that as far as they were concerned