he British government scientist and champion of the Transportation Plan, visited the same Ruhr cities, where he witnessed a similar desolate landscape: “so much destruction one longed for open fields and to get away from the trail of our bombs.” Here and there he saw women sweeping the pavement in front of houses that were no more than neat piles of rubble; in the eradicated city of Essen he observed people who looked neat and tidy and in no obvious sense de- jected. He was puzzled by this behavior, so at odds with what he had expected. “How the German civilians stuck the bombardments,” he wrote a few days later, “is a mystery.”* The survival of German society under the bombs has generally attracted less attention than explanations of British survival during the Blitz. Yet the German population of the major cities had to endure more than four years of increasingly heavy bombardment, fighting a war that was evidently lost long before its end. Despite Germany’s growing debilitation, industrial production, food supply, and welfare were all maintained until the very last weeks when Allied armies were on German soil and Allied bombers were pounding ruins into ruins. The capacity of the state and the National Socialist Party to absorb this level of punishment and manage its consequences demonstrated some remarkable strengths in the system, as well as its harsher characteristics. The question asked by the Allies before 1945 was typically, “When will Germany crack?” For the historian the issue needs to be approached the other way round. As for Zuckerman, the real issue is how German civilian life, trapped between remorseless bombardment and a suicidal dictatorship, adapted to the material and psychological pressures of progressive urban obliteration. Page 228 of 562 40% happened before in history.” The diary record of his trip—“Jeeping the Targets in a Country That Was”—recorded a shocking catalog of destruction: “Mainz, a shimmering shell... . Darmstadt, a shambles. ... Fr