.4! The “intermediate target” became in effect the primary target. The Air Ministry planning department had already tried to alert Portal to the growing threat of the German single-engine fighter force before Eaker’s report was available, so that there was support from both air forces for the shift in priority. Harris sent Eaker a fulsome response, since the new plan was clearly designed for the American market and impinged little on what he hoped to do.*2 The report was sent to Washington for Arnold’s approval, and in late April Eaker traveled back to the United States to defend his plan before the Joint Chiefs, who approved it on April 29. This was in some ways a more important moment than the argument at Casablanca, since the whole offensive critically relied on political approval in Washington for speeding up bomber allocation for the Eighth Air Force. Late in May, Eaker was informed from air force headquarters in Washington that the plan had been approved by the president and by Churchill; the Combined Chiefs of Staff endorsed it with Portal’s strong support on May 18.42 The new directive for what was code-named Operation Pointblank was issued to Harris and Eaker on June 10, 1943. The close link with the planning for Operation Overlord, the planned invasion of northern France, was explicit. The Combined Chiefs asked for regular reports on the progress of the CBO to help them judge when conditions for invasion were ripe. Portal set up a regular flow of monthly reports from the Joint Intelligence Committee, while Eaker promised Washington that Arnold would get an analysis every two weeks together with a monthly summarv. In September the Combined Chiefs confirmed that the CBO was now the “prereauisite to ‘Overlord.” with the highest strategic prioritv.“4 Air suoremacv was the kev to successful invasion.  Page 114 of 562 21% with the grisly prediction that Bomber Command in eighteen months could kill 900,000 Germans, seriously injure another million, destroy 6 mill