ither war effort, unless account is taken of just how wasteful much of the bombing was.42 Moreover, these were positive choices made about the allocation of resources, non-British contingent was composed of Canadians, 9,919 of whom died in Bomber Command.1® Total wastage of Bomber Command aircraft from all causes was 16,454.482 American heavy bomber After the war in Europe ended in May 1945, many of those who had helped direct the bombing of Germany were curious to see the destruction for themselves. General Spaatz flew to Augsburg in Bavaria on May 10 to meet Hermann Goring, who had just been captured by American troops. The American official historian, Bruce Hopper, was with Spaatz and recorded the two-hour interrogation in a small office in the Augsburg Riding School in which Goring reflected on why his air force had failed to halt the bombing. It was, Hopper wrote, a historic meeting of the “Homeric Chiefs of the Air War.” All around was evidence of the destruction of the national economic and civil life of a great nation, doomed, so he thought, to be set back by a century as a result. “That,” he added, “has never happened before in history.”2  Other senior American airmen visited the German ruins. General Anderson flew around the captured areas of western Germany, landing where he could and unloading a jeep to get a better look. The diary record of his trip—“Jeeping the Targets in a Country That Was”—recorded a shocking catalog of destruction: “Mainz, a shimmering shell... . Darmstadt, a shambles. .. . Frankfurt. Largely roofless. Looks like Pompeii magnified. ... Ludwigshafen. Frightful, fantastic spectacle.” Anderson flew across the Ruhr-Rhineland industrial basin where the language he used to describe the spectacle was stretched to extremes: “Dusseldorf, not even a ghost . . . all ruins begin to look alike. ... Cologne, indescribable. One gets a feeling of horror: nothing, nothing is left.” His plane took him back to France five days later. His diarist breat