e of the pretty Alpine woods and the smart modern villas of the party elite. The town itself was not hit, an outcome that local people treated as a miracle, apparently evidenced, as one young eyewitness later wrote, by the sign of the cross visible in the sky. She was puzzled by this: “Why of all places should He protect Berchtesgaden, when all of Europe was in ashes?” Her neighbors expected Hitler to arrive at any moment to make his operatic last stand.?°° But Hitler was cut off in torn away, the top of the head was a dark red bowl. Once an arm lay there with a pale, quite fine hand, like a model made of wax such as one sees in barbers’ shop windows. .. . Crowds streamed unceasingly between these islands, past these corpses and the smashed vehicles, up and down the Elbe, a silent, agitated procession.2® B-17s on April 17, leaving a further 453 dead.28 Russians come.”2° Other diaries show that growing horror at the thought of Soviet occupation, fueled by grim rumors of the primitive behavior of Soviet soldiers, put into perspective the bombing, from the east camped out in the shelter began to shout: “Broken sentences—she can’t find the right words. She flails her arms and screams. ‘They’!I find out all right,’ and then goes silent once again.”282 “Why of all places should He protect Berchtesgaden, when all of Europe was in ashes?” Her neighbors expected Hitler to arrive at any moment to make his operatic last stand.2°° But Hitler was cut off in Berlin, amid the ruins of his new chancellery building. Thousands of Berliners crowded into the vast flak towers for safety from the battle going on all around them, though the bombing of the capital was now over. Waltraud Siissmilch and her family had taken shelter in the tower but had to leave when it began to fill with water. The sight of the ruined city, even after years of bombing, struck her as extraordinary. Like General Anderson, former commander of the Eighth Bomber Command, when he toured the bombed cities later tha