the enemy fighter force. When there were no bomber raids, Kepner was encouraged to send his long-range fighters in wide sweeps over German territory, attacking German airbases and seeking opportunities for combat. For bombing operations Spaatz chose long-distance targets that would compel German fighters to attack the bombers. In March he launched a number of major raids against aircraft production in Berlin, briefly overlapping with the battle Harris had been waging since November. The raids were among the costliest of the Pointblank campaign. On March 6, 730 bombers and 801 fighters left for the first raid on the capital. Fierce battles erupted over the city so that not only was the bombing inaccurate but the raid cost the Allies 75 bombers, though only 11 escorts were lost for the destruction of 43 German fighters. Raids continued throughout March and April, culminating in a final assault on Berlin on April 29 in which the bombing was ineffective and 63 bombers were lost. The German Air Force had reacted to the advent of the long-range escort fighter by creating large concentrations of up to 150 fighters—the “Big Wing” used in the last stages of the Battle of Britain—that were designed to batter their way through to the bomber stream, or, when opportunity presented, to focus entirely on bombers whose escort had failed to materialize. The results for both sides were the highest losses of the war. In April the Eighth Air Force lost 422 heavy of HM, nominally against “marshaling yards.” In fact the raids hit the oilfield, as intended, and in early May, Eaker gave tacit approval for further attacks on Romanian oil production. Spaatz managed sion of France, Eisenhower gave formal approval for the oil offensive.*2 bombers, 25 percent of the total force; the German fighter force lost 43 percent of its strength in the same month.*2  The arena of daylight air combat over Germany was among the harshest of the air war. American commanders expected a great deal of their crew