ossible at this stage to reestablish “normal life” as had been attempted earlier in the war (and had been the aim in Britain. too. during the Blitz). though routines did not break down comopletelv. Rather than greater communal resolve. accounts of the  Page 305 of 562 53% levers to lock it shut . .. the people here are convinced that their cave is one of the safest. There’s nothing more alien than an unknown shelter.”2& others dying in the fire. I dragged my best friend from a burning building and she died in my arms. I saw others who went stark mad.”2®° These experiences were no doubt what the survey was looking i supplies meant that living standards continued to fall throughout 1944.27 Indeed, for most of the urban population official sources were the only ones available. The risks from black marketeering and had been attempted earlier in the war (and had been the aim in Britain, too, during the Blitz), though routines did not break down completely. Rather than greater communal resolve, accounts of the bombed populations show a growing apathy and demoralization: “A weight like lead hangs on all our actions,” wrote one diarist in January 1945.27  The more surprising result of the bombing was the absence of sustained popular hatred directed toward those who were carrying it out. A long report on popular attitudes to the enemy produced in February 1944 indicated occasional evidence of anger directed at British aircrew, but concluded that “hatred against the English people in general cannot be spoken of.” The Soviet people were feared rather than hated, driven by “an alien and incomprehensible mentality.” Paradoxically, wide popular hostility was reserved almost exclusively for the Italians for betraying Germany in 1943 by surrendering to the Allies.2 There were, nevertheless, acts of spontaneous violence directed by the bombed population against aircrew who were caught after they had to bail out and land on German soil. The number of airmen who became victims of “lyn