ns caught in the coils of German expansion, are seldom treated as systematically as accounts of the  Allied propaganda sought to convey. Communism continued to thrive in postwar Italy in cities where the housing tion is an official Fascist theory.”!”? In the war of words and bombs, Douhet, Italy’s great theorist of unrestricted strategic bombing, came home to roost. bombing of Germany, yet they cost at least 70,000-75,000 lives, most of them among peoples sympathetic to the Allied cause. The majority of those losses, and most of the bomb tonnage that caused them, occurred in western Europe, principally France. These areas were near enough to reach and in 1944 provided the territorial springboard for the Allied invasion of the western half of the German empire. Much of the bombing in the later period was in a loose sense tactical, intended to achieve a direct military end for the ground forces; but much of it was long-distance and heavy, designed to nibble away at war production for Germany in occupied territory, but also to promote wider political aims. According to the British Political Warfare Executive, set up in 1941, bombing of occupied areas promoted both “morale breaking” and “morale making.” Collaborators and Germans would be demoralized by the experience; those who did not collaborate would be encouraged at the prospect of liberation.2 To be bombed in order to be free now seems paradoxical, but the policy governed much of the bombing that spread out across the entire European continent between 1940 and 1945. Disordering the “New Order”  Thea ranid Garman wictnriac haturaan 1929 and enring 1941 hraucht mact af eantinental Fiurnane under Garman cantral Neutral ctates ware eamnelled ta wark urith the changed halanca af nawer while  Page 358 of 562 62% The rapid German victories between 1939 and spring 1941 brought most of continental Europe under German control. Neutral states were compelled to work with the changed balance of power, while those states that we