icularly the Lancaster. During the months from March to June, when the Ruhr battle took place, the operational strength of Bomber Command averaged 794 heavy bombers, of which 578 (or 73 percent) were serviceable. Each bomber dropped an average of just over 7,000 pounds of bombs, against an average load of 4,970 for the Eighth Air Force throughout 1943.2” The Pathfinder Force was now fully equipped with the Mosquito Mk IX, which utilized the new electronic aids, Oboe Mk IA and H2S, which were both now available in sufficient quantity, though H2S proved a disappointment over heavily urbanized areas. Raids on the Ruhr had always been subject to the hazards of cloud and industrial smog and the effective use of decoy sites. Navigation equipment no longer dependent on visual sighting was expected to allow a much greater degree of concentration at or near the principal aiming point. Over the target, new systems of marking] had been developed using bright white markers when the ground was visible, or ted, green, and yellow sky markers wheni it was not. The colorful Page 125 of 562 23% their hosts unless there was the prospect of sex. A Special Service Study found that only 2 percent of the American airmen had actually visited a British home.® The Eighth Air Force set up a speakers’ satisfactory,” and told him bluntly to change his commanders and staff to find officers who could organize attacks in “a highly efficient manner.” told Arnold. “It will break anybody down in six months unless he is a very unusual fellow.””* What had most concerned Arnold during the command crisis was not so much the virtue of the bomber public that the offensive was producing results that would inspire their “faith in our way of making war.””® aiming point. Over the target, new systems of marking had been developed using bright white markers when the ground was visible, or red, green, and yellow sky markers when it was not. The colorful flares were known by the code name Wanganui; the German publ