large number of freshman crews to be initiated on each operation, and the vagaries of weather and navigation, it is perhaps surprising that bombing operations achieved as much as they did. Almost all the flight crew were between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five, a large number  AE thaw Lateran Alahtann and ternanter Anne a Face eh Hand alae thie aan Alas Lanes ham baes and bint aarrantann Alenant nathina Af echat thar awnacinn and tn teninina anes TA neananen thaw fae eehat ee eee ee eer ce eee nF EAE hn NE SRLS SH SAE UU SEES SERRE EES WIE ALAA EMAL UE AUST, SOLES SS PEMA GEE AIMS US SEAS. SALUD LE OU BLEED SUL SEAS Wwe flight across Germany, 12,000 feet again at the European coast, and not below 7,000 feet on crossing back over English territory. Then came the debriefing interviews and the post-raid assessments.1*> the German equivalent. In the evenings they relaxed from their efforts by working out fruitless statistical teasers—‘How many sheep are there in Bavaria?” “What is the most economical land route from Gdansk to Gibraltar?”!®” Their labors proved most effective with assessments of damage to capital-intensive targets such as oil refineries or synthetic oil and rubber producers. This material was (near the target run-in), altitudes, aiming point, rally point (just outside target area), and route back. The resulting field order was then sent by teletype to the combat units involved.1*® A second manders had an obligation, according to a manual on tactics, “to work out each mission in minute detail. The struggle here is of the life and death variety.”!*° of them between eighteen and twenty-one; a few who lied about their age flew heavy bombers aged just seventeen. Almost nothing of what they experienced in training could prepare them for what happened by day or by night over Germany. For Bomber Command crews there was extreme cold for much of the time unless they wore layer upon layer of protective clothing; there was a numbing tiredness on operations that