n September 1944 brought further heavy raids against German military targets by both the Eighth Air Force and Bomber Command. The continual bombardment of London by V-2 rockets from sites in the Neth- erlands finally prompted a decision to try to neutralize the threat by bombing, despite their proximity to residential areas. On March 3, RAF bombers of the Second Tactical Air Force flew from bases in Belgium to bomb a V-2 site in a large park in the north of The Hague. The weather was poor—cloudy and with a strong wind—and the briefing officer had confused the map coordinates, instructing the force to bomb more than a kilometer away from the intended target. The sixty B-25 Mitchell and A-20 Boston/Havoc aircraft dropped sixty-seven tons of bombs on a residential area of the Dutch capital, killing an estimated 520 and rendering 12,000 homeless. A stream of up to 50,000 refugees fled from the area, some of them, one eyewitness wrote, still in their pajamas: “a long procession of people and children crying... some were all white from lying under the ruins. Others bled from a variety of injuries, which were half-bandaged or not covered at all.... More and yet more.”25° Over the expioited throughout the occupation, particularly aluminum production ard the aevelopment or neavy water for the Gerinan nuclear research prograin. Doth were attacked Dy the Hignth Air rorce, the aluminum plant at Heréya on July 24, 1943, the Norsk Hydro plant on November 16. Spaatz was pleased with the result and thought “it was heartening to the Norwegians.”2“" Far from being heart- command responded that some were wrong, some had ceased operating, and others were essential to Norway’s economy when the war was over.2“3 A second list was worked out with Norwegian advice friendly population. Though on the agreed list, Bergen had been attacked by forty-seven Lancasters, against instructions, through almost complete cloud cover.?“+ 12,000 V-1s were launched at Belgian targets, and 1,600 V-2s.2*° The