iron and steel from the new plants in central Germany and occupied eastern Europe controlled by the Reichswerke coal.485 Bombing, as already noted in chapter 3, only reduced potential German industrial output by around 9 percent in 1943. That loss has to be set against a threefold expansion of war production from adapting to the pressures and expanding output.1® The central problem facing the German war economy in the last years of war was not the bombing but the escalating loss rates at the fighting five times greater than in 1942; the supply of aircraft, both new and repaired, expanded from a monthly average of 1,381 in 1940 to an average of 3,609 in 1944.18? The continuous campaigning in ment of new technologies, though it did not prevent it. Indeed in some well-known cases—the Heinkel He177 heavy bomber, for example—the problems were self-inflicted. Improvisation proved successful, but it also came at a cost in organizational effort and problem solving that did not affect managers in the United States or the far Soviet Union. As the bombing grew heavier in 1943 and 1944, the initial attempts to offer protection or immunity to German industry were extended and consolidated. The first possibility was to provide better protection on site. Antiaircraft guns were concentrated in special defensive zones around the most threatened areas of war production. Special “action units” were established for industry, which, like their urban counterparts, were sent to bombed industrial sites to try to restart production as rapidly as possible. In August 1943, following the Hamburg raids, Speer was authorized to declare emergency “damage regions” (Schadens- bereiche), which would receive priority in the restoration of productive activity.1®8 Individual plants were encouraged to develop comprehensive protective installations for their machinery and to increase the level of training for their workforces in simple air-raid protection procedures. Factories that had been bombed but we