inroads into the heart of Germany.”146 the fighter arm was trying to do. Géring threatened them with court-martial, but in the end the ringleaders were simply posted away from Berlin. Hitler, however, finally conceded that the jet ought to be used as a fighter rather than an ineffective fighter-bomber. Galland was sent to lead one of the first converted Me262 squadrons. On his last mission, flown on April 26, eleven days before the end of the war in Europe, he was attacked by an undetected Mustang and limped back to his base with a smashed instrument panel and both turbines damaged. As he arrived, the airfield was being bombed and strafed by Thunderbolts. He landed among them and dived into a bomb crater from his battered aircraft. Two weeks later he was explaining to his American captors the most effective way to put airfields out of commission.12  By January 1945 there was accumulating Ultra evidence that the choice of oil and the transport network as targets had been sensible. The stabilization of the front after the Battle of the Bulge made it evident that German forces were near the end of their fighting power, yet the assault on Germany itself promised a costly finale. The possibility of using Operation Thunderclap as a way to bring about sudden collapse was raised again. The Bomber Directorate wrote to SHAEF suggesting a bombing operation of exceptional density designed to provoke “a state of terror by air attack” in which any individual in the vicinity of the raid would realize that the chances of escaping death or serious injury “are extremely remote.”48 This was one of a number of voices raised over the winter in favor of punitive raids designed to spread the bombing over wider sections of the population. The Joint Intelligence Committee at SHAEF suggested in October 1944 that surplus bombing capacity before German surrender might be usefully employed in attacks against parts of Germany that had not yet been affected, “in order to bring home to the whole p