child.”22* search for vengeance.2#! For many of those engaged in civil defense, whether Ukrainians in the fire service or camp prisoners detailed to clear up urban debris, the SS was effectively their lawless master. director, Goebbels used his new position to review civil defense all over Germany and to insist on improvements in self-protection organization and communal services.?*? By this stage the local War,” another emergency appointment that bore little relation to the conditions on the ground for which he was now ostensibly responsible.2%? It is questionable whether Goebbels’s initiatives did fought as best they could against the rising tide of destruction and demoralization. In August 1943 the police authorities issued an order compelling every resident or visitor in an air-protection zone to take part in self-protection action during a raid. Every street and apartment block had its wardens, self-protection troop, house fire defenders, lay helpers, and messengers, led by the local leader of the self-protection area.2** In January 1944, Hitler approved further measures to increase the active participation of the population in their own defense, despite the growing risks they faced. He compared their experience with the frontline soldier who had to get over his fear of attacking tanks at close quarters: “The one who has actually seen and practiced extinguishing incendiary bombs loses a large part of his fear of this kind of weapon.”22 The schoolgirl in Berlin whose life was dominated by bombs was expected to tackle and extinguish one of a number of types of Allied incendiary. (“Would you trust yourself to extinguish such a bomb?” asked the fireman demonstrator. “Yes,” she replied.)??” In May the Luftschutzbund issued instructions to air-protection officials to undertake home visits to every house and apartment in their sector to provide up-to-date information for each householder, to ensure that every resident was materially prepared to assist, and to try to s