rim rumors of the primitive behavior of Soviet soldiers, put into perspective the bombing, whose dimensions and effects were more familiar. “Masses and masses of fugitives are crossing the Oder,” wrote one eyewitness in February 1945. “Dead people have been temporarily buried in the snow. The Russians are coming! Napoleon’s retreat from Moscow must have been child’s play by comparison.”2®? The Berlin schoolgirl, Waltraud Siissmilch, was fascinated and horrified by the stories brought by the tide of refugees from the east that flowed into Berlin in the last weeks of war. One story of the sadistic murder of a pregnant woman by Red Army soldiers filled her with complete dread, even though almost every day bombs were exacting a brutal physical toll all around her.?88 In the last week before the end of the war Berliners stayed in their shelters, which doubled as protection from Soviet shelling, since here, as over most of Germany, the bombing had ceased, in order to prevent the bombers from hitting Allied forces by mistake. The Berlin diarist found the population of her shelter still agitated and nervous, as though they were waiting for a bombing raid. Some of them speculated that the Russians might not be as bad as German propaganda had painted them. A refugee from the east camped out in the shelter began to shout: “Broken sentences—she can’t find the right words. She flails her arms and screams. ‘They’ll find out all right,’ and then goes silent once again.”282  One of the final raids of the war touched a small town that had been spared the bombing, despite its notoriety. Berchtesgaden, where Hitler had his Bavarian headquarters and retreat, was bombed by British aircraft on April 25, 1945, with considerable accuracy, leaving behind “a chaotic brown-and-black mess” in place of the pretty Alpine woods and the smart modern villas of the party elite. The town itself was not hit, an outcome that local people treated as a miracle, apparently evidenced, as one young eyewitne