the democratic wilderness. By Service (Luftschutzwarndienst), emergency repairs, medical aid, decontamination squads, blackout, camouflage policy, and fire protection.® The question of organization was in practice far from straightforward. The Reich Interior Ministry, which had hitherto been responsible for air-raid protection, objected to the changed ownership of civil defense, and retained some responsibilities in areas of public health, civil administration, and post-raid organization that survived until well into the war, though without very clear definition.” More significant was the claim made by the leader of the SS, Heinrich Himmler, when he was appointed chief of German police in June 1936. At the local level the responsible leader of air-raid protection was usually the city police president, together with a committee composed of the local heads of the various emergency services. In smaller towns or the countryside the control post could be assumed by the local mayor, or rural officials, but in the threatened urban areas, the regular Order Police assumed responsibility. Himmler claimed that the police, rather than the air force, should run the fire service, Provide r medical help Cin ec collaboration with the German Red Cross), organize gas decontamination, and coordinate the emergency rescue services (Sicherheitsdienst u und d Hilfsdienst).  ne woe ee et ee ta _ we et ee a et at dt tan a 28 et et tt ta a in. _ tte ee  Page 231 of 562 40% The diary record of his trip—“Jeeping the Targets in a Country That Was”—recorded a shocking catalog of destruction: “Mainz, a shimmering shell. ... Darmstadt, a shambles. . . . Frankfurt. Largely France five days later. His diarist breathed a sigh of relief: “escape from Gétterdamerung [sic] back to civilization.”2 Sydney Bufton went to look at Hamburg and was “greatly impressed,” but shocked at the fire service, provide medical help (in collaboration with the German Red Cross), organize gas decontamination, and coordinat