ased on RE8 research on man-months lost and acreage destroyed, transformed the statistical image of Bomber Command’s achievements and gave Harris the weapons he needed to argue the case that bombing was capable of knocking Germany out of the war. If there had been a defensiveness about Bomber Command strategy before Hamburg, the new evidence could be used to strengthen Harris’s hand. On August 12 he wrote to Portal, who was with the Combined Chiefs at PACREU WULRITE"Lidoo CUSOLLICLS Ul TIAIIIUCLULUUR, DULBICIUL, PIAL, DILIWELUCL, TIVIICIILOIUE, ALLL RULIICLIUULESULE. 21 TAI AAOLEM JUol UVES! Ail LLU. LILLE CULICOCHILI ALLL OL APPIUALIIIALCLY 1,20 LUlis UL proved useless. What followed, in the words of Hamburg’s police president, was a “hurricane of fire . .. against which all human resistance seemed vain.”122 The illusion of a hurricane was caused by carbon monoxide poisoning.12* An estimated 18,474 people died during the night. An area of more than twelve square miles was burnt out. smoke obscured much of the evidence of destruction but confirmed that the “amount of residential damage is very great.”12> the summer months.1"° By October, Géring’s deputy, Erhard Milch, had drawn up firm plans for the output of more than 3,000 fighter aircraft a month, and more speculative plans for 5,000 fighters every month during 1945, at the expense of further bomber production.1*” By simplifying production methods, reducing the large number of aircraft types, and abandoning the habit of regular in the year before they joined the armed forces.442 bombs: “The complete wipe-out of a residential area by fire is quite another and better conception. May it long continue!”!“ Robert Lovett wrote to Eaker from Washington that the War Department the Quadrant conference in Quebec, that in his view the bombing war was “on the verge of a final show-down.” Harris was certain that with the same concentration of effort “we can push Germany over by bombing this year.”143  The results of Operation