fficulty of landing away from injuries,” recalled the pilot. “The navigator hit a tree and broke his back. . .. The flight engineer had a scalp injury from hitting his head on a rock. In all, we were pretty lucky.”=* The high casualty rate Battle of Britain: “We must try to achieve what England achieved in 1940.” The larger question posed by the “Battle of Germany” is why the German Air Force failed where in 1940 the RAF—by a nar- centralized structure available to Hugh Dowding in 1940. The German Air Force had good intelligence warning of incoming attacks and a thorough understanding of enemy tactical weaknesses. Like Fighter Command, the men who fought in the German fighter force were defending their homeland and prepared to take high losses in doing so. As in the Battle of Britain, the German Air Force leaders believed that success in the air was at that point “the most decisive precondition for victory.”©  The comparison is nevertheless a superficial one. Germany’s strategic position in 1944 was very different from Britain’s in 1940, fighting as it was on two major fronts in the Soviet Union and Italy and facing growing resistance in other areas of German-occupied Europe. The German priority was not simply to frustrate the Allied search for air superiority but to try to defend a fortress area in central Europe against overwhelming material superiority on all fronts. The strategic crisis explains the emergency program of fighter production, like the British crisis of the summer of 1940. German fighter output reached its wartime peak between the last months of 1943 and the autumn of 1944, though this was achieved in an environment of heavy and continual bombing. As a result, the gap between German fighter production and Anglo-American fighter output (produced in an almost entirely bomb-free environment) was not as significant as the gap in economic resources might suggest. British and American fighter output between January and June 1944 was 11,817; German product