r by night over Germany. For Bomber Command crews there was extreme cold for much of the time unless they wore layer upon layer of protective clothing; there was a numbing tiredness on operations that could last eight or nine hours, using up the body’s natural adrenaline supplies and requiring chemical stimulants (commonly amphetamines); with the decision taken in the spring of 1942 to have just one pilot, the crew had to hope that one of their number had enough basic flying skills to get them to their target and back if the pilot was killed or incapacitated. There was the constant fear of night fighters and antiaircraft fire or of being coned by searchlights, to which large nighttime formations added the danger of collision or bombs from the invisible aircraft above in the bomber stream. The Eighth Air Force crews had some advantages; the B-17 Flying Fortress was less cold to fly in, and they were provided with good thermal clothing; each aircraft had a pilot and copilot; attacking aircraft were more easily visible, though the limited range of the B-17 machine guns meant that rocket- and cannon-firing fighters could damage the bombers before facing risk themselves. Other factors were shared. The experience was frightening and the accounts of a great many airmen understandably recall fear as a very primary emotion. “I was scared all the time,” recalled one veteran, “but I was more scared of letting the rest of the crew see.” Aircrew were commonly sick as a result of the long, bumpy flights. Their priority was to complete the mission and return to base. “You bombed Page 158 of 562 28% THE LY PlCal LISLLUCLIONS LOL ad DOLIVEL COTTAM Lalit USL ALe Lie CLOSE ALLETIIOL LO Plalllillis UCtall ali LIE LAllEe OL CEillAllGs Mate OF Lie CLE Wo, 4AliCralt 1fOl LOUL OF LIVE VDOTTIVET ELOUDS WETS flight across Germany, 12,000 feet again at the European coast, and not below 7,000 feet on crossing back over English territory. Then came the debriefing interviews and the post-raid as