s were also made on more distant cities, reducing the impact on the Ruhr- Rhineland to no great effect. Attacks on Munich and Stuttgart recorded between one-fifth and one-third of bombs within three miles of the aiming point, levels of accuracy not significantly better than the end of their useful life.74 Indeed, the harshest criticism of Eighth Air Force performance came from the American side, not from the RAF. Arnold, whose health deteriorated badly during 1943, reasons both should appreciate. We get nowhere with recrimination.”” Nevertheless, Eaker agreed to make major changes in his command structure, anxious perhaps about the security of his own action.”® Radio countermeasures were available to block the German Freya radar, code-named Mandrel, and to interfere with German ground-control transmissions, known as Tinsel, while new air- the year before.*! Between March and June, when the battle against the Ruhr came to an end, Bomber Command had launched twenty-eight raids against cities in the Ruhr-Rhineland area, but another eighteen raids against targets in central Germany, Italy, and France. Though the pattern of destruction varied widely between the different operations, the attacks on the Ruhr-Rhineland were the first raids to inflict serious levels of destruction on the urban area.2 The reaction from the German side was to search for new ways to cope with the sudden escalation of RAF capability. Hitler was preoccupied with stabilizing the war in Russia and North Africa but angered by what he saw as the continued failures in air defense. His air adjutant Nicolaus von Below recalled long evening conversations with Hitler about the inadequacy of antiaircraft fire, the incamnetence of Gérins. and the shortage of modern aircraft desiens. hut Hitler remained. according to von Below. “at a loss” on auestions of airnower 83 To stifle widesnread nonular anxietv. Iasenh  Page 126 of 562 23% —eeEeeeEeEeEeEeEeE———=—E—_eEE——————EE—eE—_——E—E———E—E————Er—OO ee ew EEE — ——