stages. In the first six months of 1943, Bomber Command dropped 63,000 tons of bombs, the Eighth Air Force only 8,400 more. For the American command, Operation Pointblank had not yet started; in contrast, the RAF, as the director of plans explained in March 1943, hoped that bombing “may well produce decisive results this year.” There was nevertheless no prospect that the two bomber forces would constitute what the Joint Intelligence Committee called after the Ruhr offensive “an organic whole,” because of continued American resistance to the idea that bombing cities was strategically useful. The Ruhr battle was one of a long line of Bomber Com- mand campaigns in which the Eighth Air Force was largely absent.22 Operation Gomorrah: The Destruction of Hamburg  Back in November 1941 the Directorate of Bomber Operations in the Air Ministry had concluded from a study of urban targets in northern Germany that Hamburg was the city that presented the best general conditions for a large-scale incendiary attack. Since the area was large, “saturation point” would be harder to achieve. The report continued that if Hamburg was selected for special incendiary  Page 130 of 562 23% as he called them, were failing to press home attacks, while he singled out the tactic Of violent evasive action (an instinctive response to intense searchlight and antiaircralt activity) as a key Culprit. in on the aircraft structure. Crews were told to fly “straight and level” through the target area to increase the concentration of bomb hits.2? Whether crews really did respond to the instruction, or whether summer. The MEW estimated a total loss to German production of 10-12 percent from attacks on the Ruhr-Rhineland (including 2-2.5 million tons of steel) and a bad state of morale.®> A study by Alongside the night bombing, the Eighth Air Force, as one senior American commander put it, “can only nibble at the fringes of German strength.”°” There were three small raids on German territory the synthetic r