ibution. the strike movement spread to other factories and eventuallv as far as Genoa and  Page 333 of 562 57% to the Basilica of San Lorenzo and across twenty-seven residential streets.” The following day the pope drove in his black Mercedes through Rome, the first time during the war that he had left Vatican a sullen crowd that blamed him for the war. “The population is mute, hostile,” wrote an aide, “we pass through tears and an icy silence.” rule abruptly ended. The American Psychological Warfare Branch drew an obvious though speculative inference: the bombing of Rome on July 19 meant that by July 25 “the Government was out.”® the tonnage dropped in the Blitz on Britain.4 From modest losses in the early raids, the destruction of housing escalated dramatically, 122,000 buildings by March 1943.8° Most of the operations were back and forth to their families in the countryside. Mingled with protest at rising prices and poor food distribution, the strike movement spread to other factories and eventually as far as Genoa and Milan, until they petered out in April. In Genoa protests against the lack of shelters had already followed the first raids, when crowds of angry women tried to storm the bunkers belonging to the rich. During 1943 a stream of reports reached Rome from provincial prefects indicating the growing demoralization and hostility of the population, though only some of this was due to bombing and much to do with Italy’s ineffective war effort. A report from Genoa in May 1943 indicated that “public morale is very depressed” due to food shortages and the complete incapacity of the Italian military effort, as well as the material and morale damage caused by the bombs. From Turin it was reported that workers could no longer see any point in working for a failed system but displayed instead “apathy and indifference.” Palermo, hit repeatedly by bombing in 1943, reported in May that almost all civilian activities were paralyzed, the population terrorized and the s