he problem of overcrowding, the difficulty of organizing regular transport for the “evening” evacuees, and shortages of food soon made themselves felt. Protests from the prefects in March 1943 led to a reversal of policy and evacuees were encouraged instead to return home and run the risk of being bombed. The appeal had little effect. Half of the population of Turin remained away from the city at night, 55 percent in the hinterland, 45 percent in other provinces. A second wave of evacuation occurred in the summer of 1943, reaching two-thirds of the city population, many of the newcomers sleeping in woods and fields in conditions of deteriorat- ing hygiene and widespread hunger. The crisis induced by bombing was more severe than anything experienced in Germany. As intelligence information filtered through to the Allies, the idea of bombing Italy out of the war suddenly became less fanciful. Sinclair told Churchill in late 1942 that Fascist morale would be badly rocked by bombing war industry and transport but that a final flamboyant attack on Rome “might bring the Fascist state toppling down.”*! An intelligence report to the American Office of Strategic Services (OSS) in April 1943 from Lisbon claimed that the Italian ambassador “expects revolt within a month.” Asecond report a few weeks later passed on news that Pope Pius XII was unhappy about the bombings and now hoped that the generals might seize power and take Italy over to the side of the Allies.®* As a result the political war on Italy was stepped up in the first months of 1943. American aircraft of the Ninth Air Force, which joined the campaign in December 1942, interspersed the bombing of Ttalian citiac fram Narth African hacac urith macciva laaflat drane 6A millinn itame in tha firct aight manthe af tha waar Thair nurnaca accardina ta the Dewchalacical Warfara Rranch (PWR) urac ta  Page 328 of 562 57% parison “very few.” Perhaps to rub the message home, small stickers were dropped printed in red letters wit