fighter production commanded by Brigadier General Robert Williams, had to fight their way there and back. Both cities were the farthest the Eighth Air Force had yet flown into German airspace and involved the largest number of bombers so far dispatched, a total of 376 B-17s—a reflection of a sudden escalation in the supply of both crews and aircraft. The Messerschmitt works produced 18 percent of all Messerschmitt Me109 production; the ball-bearing works at Schweinfurt produced 45 percent of the supplies of German ball bearings. The aircraft set off in the late morning of August 17 and were attacked by German fighters from the moment Allied fighter cover ended, at Antwerp on the Channel coast. The group destined for Regensburg reached the target near midday and dropped 298 tons, killing 400 people and causing the temporary loss of 20 percent of fighter output. On the way there 12 B-17s were shot down, and 12 more were lost in the aftermath as they flew on across the Alps to Tunisia. Poor repair facilities in North Africa left more bombers grounded, and after a long return flight with further losses, only 55 out of the original 146 returned to English bases.1% The First Bomber Division faced an even greater battle. For more than three hours in the afternoon flight the bomber stream was subjected to persistent fighter attack, losing a total of 36 aircraft. Around three o’clock, 424 tons of bombs were dropped on the Schweinfurt works, killing 141 people, destroying two works completely, and seriously damaging a number of others. The German Armaments Ministry recorded a temporary loss of 34 percent of ball-bearing production, though large reserve stocks were available to cushion the blow.1® For the Eighth Air Force the cost for just two targets on their list was exceptional. Together with the 60 aircraft shot down, 176 were damaged and 30 remained in North Africa. Including those lightly damaged, the casualty rate was 71 percent; counting those destroyed, severely damag