and of Brigadier General Uzal Ent, 177 aircraft flew off on a course designed to take them to the northwest of IMM, in order to avoid the guns and the barrage of 100 balloons. Over Romania the lead commander turned east at the wrong point, bringing most of the force close to Bucharest, where the German defenders were put on full alert. The force turned north into the teeth of the antiaircraft and fighter defenses. Some small groups flew low into the oil complex and bombed designated targets from 500 feet, but most, on Ent’ S orders, bombed what they could and escaped. The planned return route v was abandoned as aircraft damaged by: antiaircraft fire and harried by German fighters flew ‘south i in disarray. Only 88  Page 407 of 562 70% the leaflet drops made on other areas. Above all, the political initiative had to be related to the possibility o or probability of bombing, either as a threat or as a promise. The Czech sources confirmed ing, which would provoke “serious resentment.”!*! The Yugoslav partisan armies welcomed precise raids on German targets, but not raids on the major cities. The propaganda made much of Allied been in the west. For the Western Allies there was only one principal target in eastern Europe once the area came within effective bombing range. The oil-producing region around HMM in Romania products.1£2 Since oil was a major target for the Combined Bomber Offensive, the interruption of Romanian supplies assumed a high priority. The RAF had begun to explore the possibility of raiding GMM in the spring of 1942 to aid the Soviet Union, but the operation, at the limit of aircraft range, was regarded as impossible with current strengths. The Combined Chiefs of Staff at the Casablanca Although Churchill was willing, as he told Eden, “to put the screw very hard on Turkey” to modify its neutrality for the RAE, the attack on [MMMM when it came was made by American air forces acting under pressure from the American Joint Chiefs to act quickly to block Ax