the reality. The air force relied increasingly on gestures. New Sturmjdger (storm fighter) units were created from skilled pilots who flew their aircraft, armed with heavy new 30-millimeter cannon, straight at the bomber stream, regardless of the powerful “the shock the enemy needed,” one of the pilots later told his American captors, “to make them cease their inroads into the heart of Germany.”14° shot down. Galland was sacked by Géring a week later on suspicion of instigating a pilots’ rebellion against his leadership. A mutiny finally surfaced in a grim confrontation at the Air Ministry after Karl Koller, the successor to Korten as chief of staff, sent a delegation to meet Goring to request changes in command, the reequipment of fighter units with the Me262 jet, and greater respect for what the fighter arm was trying to do. Goring threatened them with court-martial, but in the end the ringleaders were simply posted away from Berlin. Hitler, however, finally conceded that the jet ought to airfields out of commission.117 any individual in the vicinity of the raid would realize that the chances of escaping death or serious injury “are extremely remote.”148 This was one of a number of voices raised over the winter in favor attack. Robert Lovett wrote to Arnold early in January 1945 that despite everything, Germany showed no signs of cracking, while the German forces were fighting with such “skill and fanaticism” that it might produce “a type of dug-in, trench warfare which will be slow, costly in lives and difficult to synchronize with the increased demands of accelerated Pacific operations.” Only airpower, Lovett concluded, could break the stalemate.122 The story of the last months of desperate German resistance is now well known, but at the time the intelligence picture for the Allies was less coherent and full of potential menace. Persistent rumors of German plans to build a “redoubt” in southern Germany or the Alps were taken more seriously than they deserved. Th