f-use  File: --- downes_strategic.pdf --- Page 4 --- Targeting Civilians in War [16]caused by this strategy were not a side-effect of strikes on military targets, or a product of a refusal to discriminate between soldiers and civilians, but rather the intended object of the strategy. In other cases, however, belligerents mount a pattern of repeated at- tacks over an extended period that fail to distinguish between combatants and noncombatants and thus kill tens of thousands of civilians. Although killing noncombatants is not the avowed purpose of such a strategy, this outcome is nevertheless foreseeable, predictable, and often desired, and thus constitutes civilian victimization. The U.S. Army Air Forces during World War II, for example, launched seventy self-described attacks on a “city area” in Germany, raids that qualify as intentional civilian victim-ization. United States bombers also devoted about half of their total ef-fort to radar bombing, which—although not purposefully directed at civilians— American military officers knew was the functional equivalent of British area bombing. According to Thomas Searle, “USAAF commanders essentially acknowledged this fact by using a large percentage of incendi-ary bombs (the preferred weapon against cities) on these raids even though such bombs were ineffective against rail yards, the official targets.” 13 The adoption and exploitation of this indiscriminate form of attack thus consti- tute civilian victimization. Contrast each of these strategies with the U.S. strategic bombing cam- paign during the 1991 Persian Gulf War. In that conflict, for example, F-117 aircraft bombed the Al-Firdos bunker in Baghdad, an installation that U.S. air planners believed was a command-and-control center. Unknown to these planners, however, the Iraqi regime was using Al-Firdos as a bomb shelter for civilian dependents of Iraqi officials. The air strike killed approximately two hundred to three hundred civilians. These deaths, although tra