esigned heavy bombers comparable to the B-17, but seem to have envisaged us- ing them to strike the "deep rear" of an opposing army and air force-railheads and bases far behind the front-rather than for true strategic attacks on war pro- duction or on basic elements of an enemy's economy. In any case, the proponents of heavy bombers fell afoul of Stalin and were wiped out in the Great Purge.13  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 16 The Luftwaffe's founders had more interest in strategic bombing but it became a tactical air force, designed to support surface operations. It was headed by Hermann Goering, the most important Nazi next to Hitler himself. Air power had a high place in the Nazi scheme of things. Hitler firmly believed in its im- portance, although he did not exert the close and continuous influence over the Luftwaffe that he maintained over the army. Instead he trusted in Goer- ing's judgment until it was too late. Goering, a renowned ace in World War I, was a technical ignoramus. Much of the Luftwaffe's development was really due to the efforts of the air ministry's state secretary, Erhard Milch, and its first chief of staff, Gen. Walter Wever. Unlike Milch, Wever favored developing a strategic bombing force. Prototypes of two four-engine heavy bombers, the Dor- nier 19 and the Junkers 89, were built in advance of comparable British planes. But they were underpowered, and their fuel tanks were too small. Despite all the Weimar Republic's efforts to evade them, the restrictions of the Versailles Treaty had left Germany's aircraft industry in poor shape. Engine development in particular, lagged until the mid-1930s. Lack of suitable power plants finally led to the cancellation of the Dornier 19 and Junkers 89. Wever's death in 1936 did not, by itself, abort the building of heavy bombers, as is sometimes said; efforts to develop them went on. The Germans even built a prototype of the Messerschmitt 264, intended to bomb the United States from bases in the Azores