from 1936 to 1940) proved almost the only element of the British military that was genuinely ready when war broke out. The RAF had not been lucky in its senior commanders, nor had the Air Ministry met its responsibility well. Most of the RAF's best planes stemmed at least partly from private initiatives that the ministry at first resisted. The remarkable Mosquito fast bomber and fighter was developed by the De Havilland Company despite Air Ministry opposition; it was only ordered in December 1939, after the war began. The designers of the Spitfire and Hurricane fighters, Reginald Mitchell and Sydney Camm, were dissatisfied with the inadequate 9 specifications laid down by the Air Ministry in 1930, and a new set of specifica- tions was written in 1934 to accommodate the superb designs their companies had already produced. The Air Staff preferred heavy, two-seat fighters with guns mounted in a turret behind the pilot. The few twin-seater Defiant fighters that were built proved disastrous failures in 1940. Only strenuous efforts by Dowding secured priority for single-seat fighters with forward-firing guns. The Air Staff was also content with the inadequate light .303 machine guns that British fighters were stuck with for the first year of the war. British bombers were saddled with these guns for almost the whole war. In the last years before the war, the RAF's Bomber Command, formed in 1936, began confronting reality. In 1937 the centralized industrial Intelligence Com- mittee of the civil departments of the government began collecting information on the German economy, and serious war planning started. A series of "Western air plans" were formulated, each aimed at attacking a particular element of the enemy's war effort. Some plans were for direct attacks on the German air force and its supporting industries, and against the German fleet, but these were not regarded as very practical because the German forces were too dispersed or too well defended. Some plans were ba