c, attack on the marshalling yards had largely isolated the Ruhr by early 1945; Speer's ministry described the region as an "island" on January 18. On January 30 Speer reported to Hitler that the war was lost. "After the loss of Upper Silesia, the German armaments industry will no longer be able even approximately to cover the requirements of the front for armaments, ordnance and tanks." The Soviet conquest of Silesia, which had been providing 60 percent of Germany's coal, thus started the final slide to ruin. by rendering Germany wholly dependent on the tottering western industrial areas. But the Allies were slow to devise a sound plan to hasten and complete that collapse. 19 Bad weather continued to interfere with assessing the results of attacks, and many influential figures still opposed a general strategic attack on transporta- tion. The British Ministry of Economic Warfare, having completed a bizarre swing from its wild overoptimism in the earlier years of the war, now insisted that no fall in German armaments production could be expected in the near future-a conclusion that might have afforded Hitler and Speer some wry amuse- ment. On January 17 the CSTC recommended that direct attacks acks on weapons production receive second priority after oil, and that attacks on transportation be limited to the area just behind the front. But Tedder, with Eisenhower's backing, opposed this and again had his way. He was assisted by the Soviet advance in Silesia, which converted Derek Wood. the head of the working committee that surveyed transportation for the CSTC, to the view that halting coal shipments from the Ruhr would now have immediate results. (An alternative interpretation is that the Soviet advance gave Wood and others a face-saving excuse to change.) Tedder's victory was secured during February by a revision of the intelligence picture. After the Battle of the Bulge, Bottomley had ordered a review of the handling of "ultra" information related to the attack on t