of communication" was designed to stress the concentration of effort in proximity to the front, and to placate the ground commanders for the loss of direct support that Tedder wished to arrange.  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 168 Decisive Offensives II: Transportation On November 8 the CSTC issued a plan for the attack, emphasizing short- run "tactical" considerations over the strategic disruption of the whole German economy, in which it had no great faith. But it realized the desirability of cut- ting off the Ruhr and the value of breaking the crucial Bielefeld and Altenbecken viaducts. The Reich was cut into nine transportation zones; British-based forces would handle the five western zones, concentrating their attacks between the Rhine and a line running through Hamburg, Hannover, Wurzburg, and Ulm, while the Fifteenth Air Force hit remoter zones in the south and east. While heavy bombers hit marshalling yards, fighter-bombers would attack the smaller targets left intact after the heavies went over. As even more bombs fell on the marshalling yards, the Eighth Air Force's 2nd Bombardment Division took on the viaducts. On November 2, 172 B-24s damaged the Bielefeld Viaduct, and closed it for nine days. On November 26, 240 planes returned to the same viaduct, but the attack failed. Another visit, by 152 B-24s on November 29, shut it for eleven days. On the same day an attack by 144 B-24s shut the Altenbecken Viaduct until February 11, 1945. Targets of this sort, like the canals, would have been better dealt with by the RAF and its bigger bombs. But the Germans saw the handwriting on the wall and began building bypass lines around both viaducts. Allied fighter attacks. cold weather, and other difficulties prevented completion of these bypasses. The transportation attack intensified, even though a new directive on December 5 gave direct attacks in support of the Allied armies second priority, ahead of transportation, for a time, and there was still widespread skept