ilable. The failure of these attacks was not due just to the fact that unescorted attacks were too horribly costly even as an occasional venture. The selection of ball bearings as an objective proved a fundamental mistake. It was not the vulnerable spot that it seemed, although the Germans themselves shared this illusion. On the other hand, the Germans never had a chance of recovering air superiority with jets, as is commonly supposed. CRITIQUES OF STRATEGIC BOMBING For a variety of reasons, the historical reputation of the strategic air offensive against Germany has not been high, particularly in the last 25 years. The most recent general histories of World War II, by Martin Gilbert, John Keegan, and Robert Leckie, give short shrift to the bombing of Germany or are actively critical of the campaign. The low repute of the strategic air offensive is partly due to a tendency to identify the whole offensive with the British area attacks. Horror at the slaughter of civilians, and the knowledge that those attacks broke neither German morale nor the German economy, led to revulsion against the area offensive, which, with considerable although not complete justification, was regarded as a costly failure. There was disillusion with the claims of some of the more extreme air power advocates, and disappointment with the air offensive's results. The hopes nursed by many people (but not the Allied leaders) during the war that bombing would avert an invasion of France and bloody land battles were disappointed, and there was a widespread, if unjustified, assumption that such a result had been expected. The revelation that German war production rose until September 1944, and the fact that the dramatic impact of the attack on oil and transportation came late in the war, tended to suggest that the offensive had not been worthwhile. Indeed, the rise in German production was often cited out of context, with no mention of what happened after that, and the achievements of the oil and tr