e its fighter production was under attack. Some Luftwaffe officers were wor- ried. Gen. Hubert Weise, who commanded the defense of central Germany. presciently suggested on November 6 that at least some twin-engine day fighter units be reequipped with single-engine planes. But as late as February 1944 most German officers did not believe that Allied fighters would fly east of Brunswick. And the Luftwaffe's equipment and tactics had become increasingly oriented toward attacking unescorted bombers, not dealing with Allied fighters.2 THE BATTLE OF BREMEN The heavy bombers stayed on the ground for some days after Schweinfurt. Then attempts to hit nonferrous metals plants at Düren, within P-47 range, were foiled by weather and the failure of Oboe equipment. Overcast persisted over Germany. In their inadequate cold-weather gear, bomber crewmen shivered through a miserable fall and winter. There was no visual bombing of Germany for the rest of 1943; until mid-February 1944 the Eighth depended on bombing by radar. The next mission typified the fighting of the next few months. On November 3 the Eighth introduced H2X, the three-centimeter American version of H2S. It sent 566 bombers, the largest force yet put in the air, to Wilhelmshaven; 539 reached the target. They were escorted all the way, the 55th Group's P-38s 111 supplying escort in the target area. Only 7 bombers and 3 fighters were lost; the P.38s downed 3 German fighters. H2X worked well, and the bombs dam- aged a shipyard. But that sort of target no longer had a high priority. During November and December the Eighth flew to ports and a few inland industrial areas, selected because they promised a good picture on the H2X screen and lay inside escort range, rather than their intrinsic importance. Bremen alone was attacked six times; some spoke of the late 1943 operations as the Battle of Bremen. The limita- tions were unfortunate, for the Eighth's striking power was growing. By late December it was sending over 700 b