ather than "general" area attack. Bottomley and the Ministry of Economic Warfare favored this idea. Instead of seeking the general dislocation of the enemy's morale and economy, area attacks could be aimed at wrecking a particular industry. Even though it was usually impossible to single out individual factories, production of a particular item might be disrupted by blasting the cities in which it was made. The inclusion of Schwein- furt, the center of German ball bearing production, among the target cities listed in the February directive was at least a gesture in this direction. Portal felt it necessary to stress area bombing. On February 15 he sent a note to Bottomley remarking that "I suppose it is clear that the aiming points are to be the built-up areas, not for instance the dockyards or aircraft factories where these are mentioned in Appendix A. This must be made quite clear if it is not already understood." (Emphasis in the original.) But in practice this point was not taken literally, and in the next few months, many attacks on Germany were of a mixed sort. While most of the force was ordered to bomb the center of a city, part would be assigned a particular factory as an aiming point. On May 5 the February directive was amended; while stressing the aim of attacking morale, it suggested area attacks on cities associated with aircraft production, to be ac- companied by precision attacks on the aircraft factories themselves if possible. But Air Marshal Sir Arthur Harris, who led Bomber Command from February 22, 1942, to the end of the war, showed little interest in this.1 Harris had ably commanded 5 Group early in the war; later he had served as the deputy chief of the Air Staff and as head of the RAF's delegation in Washington. Even his most ardent defenders admit that Harris made appalling mistakes, especially in the last year of the war, but even his worst critics have agreed that he was a real leader and a vast improvement on Peirse, a man of little initia