efs of Staff set explicit objectives-oil, ball bearings, tank production, ordnance depots, and motor transport production, in that order of priority-in the directive establishing the command change, but this was not done. The change in command did not directly affect American operations, but it probably hurt the strategic air offensive. Eisenhower, prompted by his deputy. Tedder, might have been less tolerant of Harris's independent line of action than Portal was. And, by reducing Tedder's influence, the change delayed and diluted a concentration of effort on what became the Allies' other main objective: German transportation. For although the influence of the Tedder-Zuckerman team had been unfortunate at an earlier stage, they now advocated a policy that would pay enormous dividends. The apparatus for reviewing intelligence and recommending targets was reorganized A Combined Strategic Targets Committee (CSTC) was formed, to oversee the inter- Allied bodies that assessed the campaigns against oil, aircraft production, ball bearings. tank and vehicle production, and V-weapons. The CSTC was composed of the heads of, or representatives of, the operations and intelligence departments of the Air Ministry, the USSTAF, the MEW (Ministry of Economic Warfare), the U.S. Embassy's Economic Objectives Unit, SHAEF (Supreme Headquarters Allied Ex peditionary Forces), Bomber Command, and the Eighth Air Force. The CSTC itself took over the functions of the Joint Oil Targets Committee. It is astonishing that only now, for the first time, was there a solid inter-Allied advisory board combining economic and operational expertise to oversee the strategic air war. The CSTC did not always operate well or smoothly, but it was a far more useful innovation than the new command arrangement.1 On September 25 Spaatz and Bottomley issued their own directive spelling out targets for the bombers. The German oil industry, with special emphasis on gasoline, retained first priority. No less than thr