It was seen not as a last-gasp effort but as evidence that the enemy was still strong. They feared that the enemy would succeed in putting large numbers of jets and new-type submarines into action. Uncertainty seeped into the planning for the strategic air offensive. There was doubt about whether to persist with attacks on transportation (other than canals) or move to other objectives. On January 8 Eisenhower released the heavy bombers for a full-scale return to the oil offensive, which no one doubted was worthwhile. and the next day Spaatz gave attacks on jet plants equal priority with oil. In prac- tice, however, the USSTAF did not get a chance to strike jet plants before a more relaxed view of the jet threat took hold. During January, three-quarters of the USSTAF effort went to tactical missions in support of the land armies. On January 15 Bottomley and Spaatz issued a new general directive. Oil and transportation retained their priorities. Important industrial areas would be bombed when the weather was unsuitable for the other objectives. This sort of clause had usually been a device lending itself to British projects, but the Americans intended to use it to cover renewed attacks on tank plants. Jets had a high priority. This evaluation reflected American views; the British did not share the Americans' fears of a Luftwaffe resurgence. Marginal effort would be devoted to attacking certain U-boat objectives. By the end of January the British had thought of a way to exploit the Soviet victories in Poland and eastern Germany. At a meeting on Malta January 31, Portal and Arnold's representative, General Laurence Kuter, agreed to revise the directive in terms of the immediate future. After oil, second priority went to "Berlin, Leipzig, Dresden and associated cities where heavy attack will cause great confusion in civilian evacuation from the east and hamper reinforcements," while as a third priority the strategic air force would attack transportation in the Ruhr-Colog