ost, mercifully, did not burn to death; they were poisoned by carbon monoxide or smothered by smoke. As the heat rose their corpses melted, or in some shelters they burned so completely that only a thin layer of ash remained on the floor. Those who  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 62 Area Bombing & the Defeat of Bomber Command realized that they had to leave the shelters before they were overcome by smoke and before the exits were buried by collapsing buildings, sometimes died more horribly than those who stayed. Some were killed by falling debris as they struggled against the hurricane-force winds. Some were burned alive when flames spurted from buildings or even when sparks set their extremely dry clothing on fire. Some were picked up by the winds and sucked into the flames. Some were caught when asphalt on the streets melted. The lucky ones, who got out of the heart of the firestorm area, found safety in canals or in parks and open spaces. The firestorm ended only when everything that could burn was gone At least 40,000 people were killed, and even this may be an underestimate. Ai attacks killed larger numbers of people later in the war, but this may have been the heaviest toll exacted by an air attack deliberately aimed at an almost purely residential area. 14 Fortunately, firestorms were not a common result, even of the heaviest attacks. Bombing was horrible, but not typical. After this horror the last two attacks on Hamburg were something of an an- ticlimax. On July 29-30 strong winds scattered the bombing; it did much new damage, but many of the bombs fell into the glowing ruins of the firestorm area The final attack, on August 2-3, ran into bad weather and was a failure. In all the British lost 100 planes in the attacks on Hamburg, including those lost in related actions or scrapped after return; 552 men were killed and 65 captured The destruction of the city had required 3,091 sorties and the dropping of 8,344 tons of bombs. 15 The Germans were near panic.