expand. Bombing, primarily during the Battle of Hamburg, cost the Germans about 30 U-boats in 1943, but these losses came almost entirely after the Battle of the Atlantic had already been decided at sea. The attacks did cause the Germans to build the new Type 21 and Type 23 U-boats in pieces inland. Only final assembly took place at the traditional construction yards. This probably delayed their arrival in service, and made this industry, also, more vulnerable to the attack on transportation later. The development of other new weapons-the V-2 and new types of aircraft- was hampered by Allied air attacks. Overall, however, the Allies may have reduced the growing German output of armaments by about 5.5 percent. Speer later put the figure, dubiously, at 9 or 10 percent, but the inadequacy of surviv- ing German statistics make all estimates rough.7 While the Allies had correctly estimated the damage to the Ruhr and Hamburg, they had overestimated the damage to Berlin, while underestimating the Germans'  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 116 The Struggle for Air Superiority ability to recover. Moreover, they were confused by the fact that they had overestimated German war production in 1940-1942 and supposed that it boa long ago been pushed to the maximum possible level. Eaker and Portal con cluded, late in 1943, that 10 percent of the enemy's "war potential" had been destroyed. What was actually going on in Germany was not understood until after the war. That the war crazy Nazis had failed to fully mobilize until after they had effectively lost the war was something too fantastic to be believed, I+ was still generally thought that German morale might crack; in fact, contrar to what is sometimes claimed, it did decline under the bombing, but there wa no question of its breaking. Increasingly, much of the task of production was carried out by slave laborers, mostly from Eastern Europe, and their "morale" was immune from attack; they had never had any to start with. The All