e most likely par- ticularly critical: the Bielefeld Viaduct, on the line from Hamm to Hannover, and the Altenbecken Viaduct (near Paderborn), on the line from Soest to Hildesheim. Not all of the vulnerable points were quickly or consistently attacked, and the status of Germany's transportation network as a target system remained an open question for some time. This was strange, for it had been singled out as a good target system well before the war, and the Allies had periodically attacked it all along. As part of the preinvasion campaign, the Allies had hit some of the bigger German marshalling yards. Such attacks had continued; 2,400 tons of bombs were dropped on German rail targets each month in July and August. As the Allied armies advanced, attacks on marshalling yards and interdiction efforts moved eastward. They had already hurt the Germans badly. The chaotic situa- tion created by attacks on the railroads in France and Belgium was already spreading to Germany, especially to the Saar. The Germans stopped sending coal to the steel plants in Lorraine and Luxembourg that were still in their hands. German freight car loadings began to fall off, beginning in the week ending August 19, just as it became necessary to move the harvest. The Saar began to collapse, and German war production, using up stocks of finished components, peaked and began to drop. The Allies, however, did not realize this. Tedder, the chief advocate of a con- centration on German transportation, and especially of attacks on rail centers, met strong opposition. He had Eisenhower's full backing and was supported by elements in the Air Ministry, but Portal, Bufton, Arnold, USSTAF, the Eighth Air Force, and the Economic Objectives Unit all disliked the idea for one reason Decisive Offensives II: Transportation 165 or another. The opponents dominated the newly-formed CSTC. The CSTC, and Spaatz, wanted an all-out concentration on oil and feared dilution of the oil effort. (Spaatz did not oppose att