cort fighters, in support of the armies are often hard to distinguish from those of the Ninth  140 The Strategic Bombing of Germany Strategic Air Offensive/The Normandy Invasion and Second tactical air forces, but were undoubtedly considerable. In turn, the liberation of France aided the strategic air campaign. By destroying the German early-warning system and enabling the British to push forward their electronic guidance systems and countermeasures, it helped change the balance of strength at night. And large numbers of German fighters were sucked into the battle for France, further undermining what remained of the air defense of Germany itself. On D-Day the Eighth Air Force's fighters joined the other Allied air forces to protect the landing, but its operations over Germany had already insured that the German reaction to D-Day would be belated and far weaker than anyone had expected. While Bomber Command attacked ten major coastal batteries. over a thousand American heavies tried to drench the beach defenses with bombs. But overcast forced bombing on H2X, and to avoid hitting the landing craft nearing the beaches, the bomb release was delayed. As a result, the bombs fell well behind the defenders. Attacks on "transportation choke points" in the city of Caen and elsewhere proved more successful, helping to delay the 21st Panzer Division's counterattack against the British, the only serious German countermove on D-Day. After D-Day the strategic air forces returned to isolating the battle area. The heavy bombers interdicted the Loire crossings, which were far from the mediums bombers' bases. The Eighth's fighters joined the tactical fighters in attacking every daylight movement. Bomber Command wrecked the German bases for motor-torpedo boats and other light craft at Le Havre and Boulogne, smashing a threat to the cross-Channel supply route. The Eighth Air Force conducted a different sort of special operation; on June 25 it carried out the first of four massive air dr