nel they worked with were friendly and cooperative, it became increasingly clear that Stalin had had second thoughts about the whole business. When the bases became operational, it was difficult to get an agree- ment with the Soviets on what targets to hit. In practice, few shuttle missions were flown, and they had little effect. The Eighth Air Force's first shuttle mis- sion proved disastrous. After bombing the Ruhland oil plant on June 21, six groups flew to the Ukraine with their P-51 escorts. That night, German bombers struck the base at Poltava, destroying 44 B-17s, 15 Mustangs, 200,000 gallons of gasoline, and ammunition and equipment, as well as some Soviet planes. Spaatz later admitted that this was the most effective operation the Germans ever laun- ched against the AAF; it was one of the heaviest losses of equipment, although not of men, ever inflicted on the Eighth Air Force. The Soviets would not let American units take over the defense of the bases, and they became increasingly uncooperative. The shuttle effort trailed off; it was a minor footnote to the strategic bombing offensive.14 A LUFTWAFFE RESURGENCE? THE THREAT OF JET AND ROCKET FIGHTERS The Allies knew that the Germans were developing planes powered by turbo- jets and rockets. New fighters, faster than anything the Allies would have for some time, might threaten Allied air supremacy. Fears about Nazi jet fighters persisted until nearly the end of the war, but a strong German jet fighter force never materialized. Long after the war, however, it was supposed that the Allies had narrowly escaped disaster. It is still widely believed that the Germans were far ahead of the Allies in developing jets and that only Hitler's blundering interference  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 156 Decisive Offensives I: Oil prevented them from getting jet fighters at an early date. But in fact the Germans enjoyed no lead in jet development. Their efforts were hampered mainly by fac- tors beyond their control, but t