resulting picture was displayed on a cathode-ray tube called a Plan Position Indicator-a type of radar display far easier to use than earlier devices. Unlike Gee and Oboe, H2S was self-contained; it did not depend on ground stations. It could be used on any number of planes. Reading the picture, however, was a tricky business; using H2S took great skill. Coasts, lakes, and rivers always stood out well, and towns and cities could be picked out from the surrounding countryside. Sometimes small areas or even railroad lines could be identified, but it was often hard to tell which town or what part of a city was on the screen. Hamburg, located on an estuary, gave a clear picture, but Berlin, inland and spread out, gave a very bad one. H2S was thus more of a navigational than a bomb-aiming device, though it served as the latter beyond Oboe range. Ludlow-Hewitt had wanted such a device as early as 1938, but there seems to have been no drive behind it until the Butt report. Developing H2S posed a difficult dilemma for the whole Allied cause. Generating the really high powered 10-centimeter radar waves necessary for a useful radar map required the use of the highly secret cavity magnetron tube, developed in 1940 by J. H. Randall and Harry Boot. The magnetron gave the Allies a lead in microwave radar the Germans never overcame. But using it in H2S would expose it to capture and duplication by the enemy, perhaps undermining the similar 10-centimeter air- borne radar used against the U-boats. Many people, including the Air Staff for a time, opposed using the magnetron in H2S and wished to employ the older klystron tube although it had much lower power. Only proof of the klystron's inadequacy and prolonged argument persuaded the Air Staff to allow use of the magnetron. Sir Robert Watson-Watt, the inventor of radar, persuasively argued that it would take the enemy a year to eighteen months to duplicate it. In June 1942 the project suffered a terrible setback when half the develop