ed, albeit slowly. Later-model P-381. had adequate cockpit heaters and windscreen defrosters, better electrical and engine-cooling systems, and bigger fuel tanks. P-38J-25s and P-38Ls, which arrived still later, had hydraulically boosted ailerons and electrically operated dive flaps They could take on Me-109s and FW-190s even at high altitude. At least some of these improvements, particularly the cockpit heating and dive flaps, could have been made much earlier.4 But by the time the Lightning was improved. it was no longer needed. The Eighth and Ninth air forces were converting to another plane without its problems, and one much easier to build: the P-51 Mustang. THE P-51 The P-51 developed in an unusual way. In 1940 the British had asked the North American Aviation Company to build P-40s for them. North American's presi- dent demurred, suggesting that his engineers could quickly develop a much better plane. Accordingly, North American's Edgar Schmued designed a fighter that somewhat resembled the Me-109 (which led to unfortunate mistakes in com- bat) but incorporated the novelty of laminar-flow, low-drag wings and an aerodynamic cooling scoop under the fuselage. The first "NA-73" was rolled out just 127 days after the British gave the go-ahead-an amazingly short period of development. Tests showed that it was fast at low altitude and handled well But its inadequate Allison engine did not deliver enough power at high altitudes to make it a match for German fighters. Deliveries to the British, who dubbed it the Mustang, began in November 1941. They used it for strafing and recon naissance. The Mustang had a remarkably long range; it attacked targets in Norway and well inside Germany. The British gave the fifth and tenth Mustangs built to the AAF for testing. but the Air Material Command showed little interest. General Eaker, however, flew a Mustang in December 1941 and thought it a good plane despite its poor high-altitude performance. He commended it to Spaatz and A