m at a later  136 The Strategic Bombing of Germany Strategic Air Offensive/The Normandy Invasion stage in the campaign. The bombs dropped on marshalling yards proved worse than useless. Much, if not all, of the 59,000 tons of bombs expended by the heavy bombers could have hit German targets, with staggering effects on the enemy. Unfortunate though it was, however, the Transportation Plan was not an avoidable mistake. It was never likely that Eisenhower would override Tedder, Leigh-Mallory, and Brereton. He could have forgone the plan only had he been certain that interdiction would do the job, and certainty about this was im- possible at the time. Since the interdiction campaign could not start until just before D-Day, while the rail center attack had to start much earlier, Eisenhower could not afford to wait to see if the cheaper interdiction program worked. Had the evidence from Sicily and Italy been rightly interpreted, things might have been different. But the very fact that until March 1944 attacks on the enemy transportation system in Italy had been directed against marshalling yards, in accordance with the Tedder-Zuckerman policy, prevented the development of corrective data.8 OTHER PRE-INVASION OPERATIONS In Germany the strategic air forces hit camps, fuel and ammunition dumps. and airfields in France to prepare for D-Day. The immediate results of the air- field attacks were small. The Luftwaffe was in Germany, and energetically repaired its installations. But when it tried to move planes to France after D-Day, it found the deterioration of its German bases under heavy bombing a big handicap During May the Eighth Air Force and Bomber Command joined in attacks on the enemy coastal radar system and began pounding coastal batteries.9 THE BATTLE AGAINST THE V-WEAPONS As far back as late 1943 the strategic air forces had become involved in a cost- ly struggle related to the task of preparing for the invasion: the struggle against the V-weapons. The Nazis had pers