ts ideas about the proper targets for an air offensive, stressing the enemy's electric power plants, oil in- dustry, and aircraft production. Unlike the RAF, it carefully studied the prob- lems of bombing.10 And it acquired equipment to implement its theories: the B-17 bomber and the Norden bombsight. In the early 1930s the Air Corps, far in advance of the RAF, had acquired modern bombers, the B-9 and B-10. Led by General Foulois, it sought a major role in defense against invasion. It wanted both a large experimental four-engine bomber and a smaller "multi-engine" bomber to replace the B-10; the multi-engine bomber should carry 2,000 pounds of bombs over 1,000 miles at a top speed of 200 miles an hour. The Air Corps got its way; in 1934 the Boeing Company received a contract for the experimental plane, the XB-15. This underpowered monster supplied useful data. Boeing also bid to build the new operational bomber. Model 299, an experimental version of the B-17, was designed and built in just 11 months. It included many innovations that were startling in 1935: electrical  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 14 Origins, Prelude, Doctrine operation of flaps, bomb bay doors, and landing gear; "control tabs," which harnessed air flow to help move control surfaces; and soundproofing, insula- tion, and heating. The new plane also had streamlined "blisters" as gun posi- tions, built to hold .50-caliber Browning machine guns instead of the .30-caliber weapons usual at the time. The B-17's performance considerably exceeded the Air Corps specifications and easily beat out its rivals. It lacked power turrets and tail guns and so, compared to its descendants during World War II, it was very lightly defended. But for 1935 it was a tough and impressive airplane. The nickname coined by a reporter, Flying Fortress, stuck. In another sense the name jibed neatly with the justification most often given for building the B-17; defense against invading enemy fleets. This was not en- tirely dis