son tried to draw the enemy's fire. Its Upkeen hit, but seemingly had no effect. But then, as the fifth plane made its run, the dam burst; the fifth mine also hit. Two planes went home; Gibson took the other five, with three remaining Upkeeps, to the Eder. The dam was undefended All three Upkeeps had to be dropped; the last smashed the dam. The first wave then went home, losing two more planes en route. The second wave, assigned to the Sorpe, proved unlucky. Flak downed two planes, and another was damaged and returned home. A fourth hit the water near the Dutch coast. The Upkeep was ripped off, but the plane, improbably. reached home. The fifth plane, after great difficulties, hit the Sorpe, causing a small break at the top of the dam. The reserve force had even worse luck. While it was en route to Germany. someone at 5 Group reconsidered and ordered four of the planes to the Sorpe and a fifth to strike the Ennepe, one of the minor dams. The plane ordered to the Ennepe apparently attacked the Bever dam instead, but failed to destroy it. Two of the planes ordered to the Sorpe were shot down, and a third got lost and went home. The fourth reported hitting the Sorpe without effect. A huge gap had been blown in the Möhne, unleashing a great flood. More than a thousand people, most, unfortunately, foreign slave laborers, were killed. Eleven factories were destroyed and 114 damaged; 25 bridges were swept away, and much farmland was rendered useless. The Eder attack unleashed a lesser but still destructive flood. The Sorpe had not been severely damaged, but a shocked Albert Speer, fly- ing to the stricken area, thought that had the mine hit a bit lower the dam would have been destroyed. He was puzzled that the British had bothered to go after the Eder instead of making sure of the Sorpe. Had both the Möhne and the Sorpe been broken, the consequences would have been at least as great as the optimists on the British side had supposed. 57 As it was, only the recent installati