cks. Only one night attack was directed against an oil plant during August. However, it is true that two precision attacks were made on the Opel vehicle plant at Russelsheim, which was wrongly thought to be making V-weapons, and that the area attacks on Stettin and Koenigsberg were designed to hamper Ger- man supply lines to the Eastern Front. Bomber Command started day attacks on Germany on August 27 with a suc- cessful attack on a Fischer-Tropsch oil plant at Homberg. During September, 11 of 12 major night operations were area attacks-the other opened the cam- paign against the German transportation system-while 13 day attacks were made on oil targets. Harris launched area attacks during the day as well. Portal did little to control him, unfortunately, for when the RAF did strike oil targets it was very effective. The main burden of the oil campaign fell on the Americans. THE USSTAF AGAINST THE GERMAN OIL INDUSTRY The Fifteenth Air Force had continued to hit Ploesti in a specialized cam- paign that will be treated on its own later in this chapter. The Normandy invasion had forced the Eighth Air Force to leave the oil industry alone for the first half of June, and Spaatz was anxious to return to it. On June 8 he made oil the primary strategic aim of U.S. strategic air operations. The target system was divided up among the various Allied air forces. The Fifteenth drew Ploesti and the natural oil refineries in Austria and Hungary, as well as the synthetic plants in Silesia, Poland, and Czechoslovakia. The Eighth would take on everything in the rest of what had been Germany before 1938, while Bomber Command was allotted the ten Ruhr plants, although the Eighth would sometimes also attack them. Given the difficulties Bomber Command still faced in penetrating Germany, and the desirability of forcing Harris to contribute more to the oil effort, it might have been desirable to split responsibility for the northwestern refineries too. On June 14 Spaatz restarted the Eighth