y a few missions against oil targets and explosives plants remained. Bomber Com- mand and the USSTAF focused largely on destroying German equipment and supplies already in being. On April 7 the RAF finally ended area bombing. Mis- sions of decreasing size were sent against those marshalling yards still behind the German lines, as well as U-boat bases, airfields, and supply and oil storage depots. On April 14-15 the Eighth flew two big missions to support a foolish French attack on German forces that were holding out on the Bay of Biscay. The escort fighters now rarely saw the enemy in the air, and they rampaged over the jammed airfields still in German hands, destroying fantastic numbers of planes on the ground. On April 16 Spaatz and Bottomley declared the strategic air war over. A few missions, mostly against the Germans' last marshalling yards, followed. On April 25, 554 planes flew the last heavy bomber mission of the war, against the Skoda works at Pilsen, which still seemed capable of supplying armored vehicles to the relatively intact German forces in western Czechoslovakia, and against Pilsen airfield and several marshalling yards. The bombers then stayed on the ground until May 2, when they took up a very different sort of work, dropping food to the starving Dutch behind the German lines and flying liberated Allied prisoners from a ruined Germany to Britain.21 11 Conclusions The air offensive against Germany was costly in economic resources and in manpower. At their peak strength, the Royal Air Force and the Army Air Force in Europe deployed 1,335,000 men and 28,000 combat planes. Together they lost just under 160,000 men, and 40,000 planes were destroyed or damaged. While the strategic air campaign was responsible for only part of the losses in the air, Bomber Command alone, which bore the brunt of the loss of life, had 55,000 dead or missing, 9,838 taken prisoner, and 8,403 wounded on planes that returned. The Eighth Air Force lost 43,742 killed or missin