d six times; some spoke of the late 1943 operations as the Battle of Bremen. The limita- tions were unfortunate, for the Eighth's striking power was growing. By late December it was sending over 700 bombers on a single mission. Only on some missions to France and Norway did the Americans actually see a target. On November 16 they went to Norway, bombing the molybdenum mine and refining plant at Knaben, which had been damaged by RAF Mos- quitos on March 3. It was the enemy's biggest source of molybdenum, vital for steel alloys, which Speer would say had been a good target. But the Allies did not hit the plant hard and often enough to end production, and German metallurgists, with some difficulty, got around the shortage of molybdenum. The bombers also attacked the plant at Rjukan, which produced heavy water for nuclear research. It had been rebuilt after Norwegians working for the British wrecked it. The bomber attack was not too successful, but the Nazis moved the plant to Germany.3 Weather had reduced the Americans to a not very effective form of area bom- bing that did little harm to the enemy war effort. But they cut into the enemy's air strength. General Weise's fears were borne out spectacularly over Emden on December 11; Thunderbolts of the 56th Group massacred 14 of 30 attacking Me-110s. The bombers were well protected, although sometimes at a high cost to the escorting fighters, which were often pitifully few by the time a distant target was reached. While doing a remarkable job of protecting the bombers, the P-38s, which formed the target-area escort on distant missions, suffered tremendous opera- tional difficulties. The P-38's cockpit was inadequately heated, and the wind- shield often frosted up. Pilots even suffered frostbite. The P-38's engines were subject to an almost endless series of woes. Half or more of the P-38 losses in the winter of 1943-1944 were due to mechanical problems. At first sight this was puzzling, for the Lightning had piled up a fi