rom the target due to gross errors. That was close to what the Eighth Air Force was achieving in good visibility. Cheshire was developing an even better technique. On April 5-6, using a Mosquito, he acted as master bomber for an attack on an aircraft plant at Toulouse. He dropped a red spot fire on it from a shallow dive. Then two Lan- casters dropped more markers from higher up; 140 Lancasters from 5 Group smashed the factory. (As a result of this, 5 Group was promptly given more Mosquitos and two Lancaster squadrons transferred from the Pathfinders.) The average bombing error fell to 380 yards. Then, when offset marking was rein- troduced, it was cut to 285 yards with the fully developed "5 Group visual," or dive-marking technique. This incorporated "proximity marking" by Oboe Mosquitos and lighting up the target area with flares before the dive-marking Mosquitos pushed over. At first it was not certain that the attacks on French targets, whether using Oboe or dive-marking techniques, showed what could be done in Germany. The French targets were all, at first, lightly defended. The attacks on them were made from lower levels than was normally possible over the Reich: 12,300 feet for Oboe-guided attacks and 7,500 feet for attacks using 5 Group visual. The latter tactic, especially, needed perfect visibility and a dangerously long stay over the target. But it was decided to try it in Germany. A first attempt to use dive-marking there, in an attack on Brunswick on April 22-23, misfired. The Mosquitos marked well, but communications broke down and haze led to the inaccurate dropping of skymarkers, which misled many bombers. Moreover, this night saw the introduction of the J-bomb, a badly designed 30-pound liquid-filled incendiary, a British counterpart to the napalm bomb. The J-bombs were often duds, but when they went off, they sprayed spectacular jets of flame that hid the markers. Things went better over Munich on April 24-25. Cheshire led Mosquitos down through he