, Jagdverbande 44. was formed in February. Galland, ousted as inspector of fighters for insufficient pandering to the fantasies of the Nazi leaders, had been allowed to form this squadron-sized unit, which had 25 Me-262s and 50 pilots, including many of Germany's top aces. But JV 44 did not get into action until late March. The Germans had devised new formations and tactics for the jets, and they developed a new type of 55 mm. air-to-air rockets, the R4M. It was far superior to the big, clumsy tube-launched rockets the Luftwaffe had used in 1943. An Me-262 could carry 24 R4Ms in underwing racks, and a single hit could destroy a bomber. Fortunately, they rarely had a chance to use it. Had three or four full-strength Me-262 geschwader existed a year earlier, equipped with R4Ms, the bombing of Germany would have been stopped dead. On March 3 the jets and Me-163s engaged bombers and fighters en route to central German oil and rail targets. They destroyed three bombers and six P-51s. The Americans resumed "capping" the jet bases with fighter patrols to catch the Me-262s taking off and landing. There was a lull in jet opera- tions for two weeks. Then, on March 18, a mission against tank plants and railroad stations in Berlin led to the biggest battle with the jets of the war. JG 7, using R4Ms for the first time, shot down most of the 13 American bombers and 6 fighters that were lost (15 bombers and 1 fighter were junked.) The escort fighters downed two Me-262s. Jets continued to pick off a few bombers on each mission. The Eighth estimated that it lost 30 bombers to the jets in March. Decisive Offensives II: Transportation On April 7 the Germans uncorked an unpleasant surprise. Propeller-driven 185 fighters reappeared, in an operation more typical of the Japanese than the Germans. The latter had long considered suicidal devices, including a piloted version of the V-1, and FW-190s carrying special heavy bombs, to crash-drive enemy ships. The pilots, in each case, were suppo