ings and aircraft campaigns, Speer had appointed Edmund Geilenberg as commissioner-general for emergency measures. Geilenberg had been an able superintendent of weapons production; if he proved less successful than Kessler and Saur, this was not for lack of trying. Apart from attempts at a comeback in the air, immense efforts were put into ground defenses and reconstruction. Priority was given to the ten 151 biggest Bergius plants and the Fischer-Tropsch plant at Ruhland; they were designated hydrierfestungen (hydrogenation fortresses). Enormous numbers of guns and smoke generators were jammed around them; The Leipzig area alone was eventually defended by over 1,000 guns. The Germans used more and more heavy guns, up to 128 mm., in massive Grossbatterien of up to 24 guns, with fire-control arrangements cross-connected, so that if one fire-control radar failed or was jammed, another could take over. They introduced new incendiary shrapnel shells, to ensure that the fragments would not just rip holes in fuel tanks but set them on fire. Sometimes, as smoke materials ran short (they were largely made at the Merseburg-Leuna plant), the Germans countered the jam- ming of their radar by switching back to optical range finders. They camouflaged the plants and built decoys; the Merseburg-Leuna decoy plant was especially successful for a time. Within the actual plants, the Germans installed blast walls and even totally enclosed reinforced concrete "dog houses" for especially vital machinery. Replacement tanks were taken from nitrogen plants. Vast numbers of workers, mostly slave laborers, were mobilized for repair and reconstruction work; by late fall they numbered 350,000-the Nazis were desperate enough to take some Jews from Auschwitz for this force. And 7,000 engineers were released from the Army. Deep shelters were built at the plants, so workers could emerge to fight fires and start work as soon as the bombers left. The work force was put under the SS, inspiring heroic e