otective booms and hit the dam. Then it would sink, sliding down the dam side, and explode when it reached the right depth. Wallis was sure it could destroy both the Möhne and the Sorpe. He was backed by Tizard, and the Admiralty was interested in his work; a smaller version of the weapon might sink enemy capital ships, especial ly the well-protected Tirpitz. Tests showed that Wallis's method would work, but Harris regarded it as ridiculous. He was sure that either the spinning device would wreck the Lancaster or the mine would be torn off. Even if delivered he did not think it would work, and anyway, he maintained, the dams were just another "panacea" target. But Portal overrode him. Two versions of the spinning mine were to be built: Upkeep for the dams and the smaller Highball for ships (the latter to be delivered by 55 Mosquitos). Upkeep, in its final version, was a cylinder rather than a ball, 5 feet long and 50 inches in diameter. It weighed 9,250 pounds, 6,600 of which were Torpex explosive. A belt run by an electric motor would spin it backward at 500 rotations per minute, and it was set to go off 30 feet below the surface of the water. Work on Upkeep was still going on when Bomber Command formed 617 Squadron under Guy Gibson, an exceptionally able and experienced pilot. Delivering Upkeep was a tricky business. The attack had to take place in moonlight at a low level; to insure surprise the approach had to be at low altitude as well. To destroy the Möhne and other dams of the same type, Upkeep had to be dropped while flying at exactly 220 miles an hour, from a height of exactly 60 feet, 450 yards from the target. Unlike Bomber Command's normal attacks, this one had to be directed by a single commander on the spot. New VHF transceivers were installed in the bombers for quick and reliable communica- tions. The Lancaster's bomb bay doors and top turrets were taken off and a spinning mechanism was installed. No altimeter was precise enough for the job; finally t