ver, three large refineries there made vital lubricants. The enemy oil industry as a whole was not yet a ripe target. The Americans did not yet have enough bombers to deal with the many targets involved, nor the fighter escorts to reach deep into Germany, while the British could not yet normally bomb accurately enough at night. But an attack on the three big lubricating oil refineries at Hamburg, the Strategic Bombing Survey later concluded, might have had "catastrophic results" for the German war effort. Hamburg, its suburbs, and its satellite city Harburg, sprawl in a north-south corridor straddling the river Elbe. The bulk of Hamburg, including its oldest sections and most of the residential and commercial areas, lies north of the Elbe. The modern port area, and most of the industry, are largely located in a narrow east-west strip, on islands south of the main course of the Elbe and on its south bank. South of the industrial area lie more residential areas and Harburg, which has an industrial section of its own. The greater Hamburg area is thus unusual, in that much of its industry is located in the approximate center of the built-up area, albeit spread out and cut up by waterways. But it was not that part of the city that Harris intended to bomb, although he set out his aim as Ham- burg's "total destruction," in a series of attacks that would drop at least 10,000 tons of bombs. Surprisingly, in view of what happened, Hamburg was not con- sidered a good fire target, having few really old or flammable buildings. It was arranged for the Americans to attack precision targets-aircraft plants and U- boat construction yards-during the same period as the RAF attacks were scheduled. 11 Despite heavy losses in the Ruhr battle, Bomber Command's strength had risen to nearly 900 operational planes and a thousand ready crews. And it had some new tricks up its sleeve to deal with the German defenses, the most impor- tant of which was Window, or "chaff." It had been known for y