ted a small fast bomber, roughly like the later Mosquito, to supplement the heavies; it might get through defenses that would stop the bigger planes, albeit with a smaller payload. But the Air Ministry was not interested in this until the war began. The British failed to come to grips with a paradox. They expected to stop German bombers from attacking them, at least in daylight, yet they expected to penetrate German fighter defenses with acceptable losses, although their equip- ment was no better than that of the Germans. Some of their strategists already suspected that fighter opposition would force Bomber Command to attack at night, but it had not trained for this. It never flew in bad weather, and when it flew at night, which was not often, the navigators depended on city lights and railroad lines as landmarks. Flying over a blacked-out countryside in war- time would be very different. The few experiments at lighting up targets with flares were not encouraging. The only available flares bright enough to do the job were too heavy for normal use.8 When the war began Bomber Command had 33 operational squadrons, 16 of which were classified as "light," with vulnerable Blenheims and Battles. The Blenheim would be of little use against targets in Germany; carrying a load of only half a ton, it was slow and weakly built. The Battle, a clumsy single-engine plane nearly the size of the twin-engine Blenheim, could not take part in a strategic bombing campaign, and was relegated to direct support for the army. Incredibly, the Air Ministry had let manufacturers go on grinding out Battles even though the Hawker Henley, a ground-attack plane and dive-bomber far superior to the German Stuka, could have readily replaced it. (The few Henleys built were used as target tugs!) The 17 "heavy" squadrons, which were soon reclassified as "medium" and had just over 200 operational planes, were only somewhat better off. Until 1942 Bomber Command's main force was equipped with planes compar