ubmarine yards and bases B. The remainder of the German aircraft industry D. Oil (contingent upon attacks against the Romanian city of Ploesti from the Mediterranean) C. Ball bearings III. Secondary objectives: A. Synthetic rubber and tires B. Military motor transport vehicles U-boat construction was to be cut 89 percent, fighter production 43 percent. bomber production 65 percent, and ball bearing production 76 percent. Half of enemy synthetic rubber capacity and nearly all of enemy tire production (tire plants were regarded as particularly vulnerable to fire) should be destroyed. If Ploesti was successfully struck, the oil installations in the Ruhr should be attacked The plan called for a real, combined Anglo-American air offensive, rather than the nominal one agreed on at Casablanca, and for the RAF to use any capacity for precision attack it had, while carrying out selective area attacks in support of the plan. 19 It expressed Bufton's outlook, as opposed to that of Harris. To accomplish its task, the plan estimated that the combined offensive would need a force of 2,702 heavy bombers and 800 medium bombers by March 31, 1944. The mediums would attack German fighter bases and strategic targets within their range; later they would support the invasion of France. In the first phase of operations, from April to July 1943, the Americans would stay largely within escort fighter range, mostly attacking submarine yards, except for attacks on Schweinfurt and Ploesti. In the next phase, from July to October, deep penetration would begin, largely against fighter plants. Attacks on additional 87 target systems should begin in October. The U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff accepted the plan for a combined bomber offensive with little debate on May 4. The plan was a departure in several respects. It made the ball bearings in- dustry a major target, because an attack on ball bearings would hurt enemy armaments production in general and fighter production in particular. Ball bear- ing