heavy attack will cause great confusion in civilian evacuation from the east and hamper reinforcements," while as a third priority the strategic air force would attack transportation in the Ruhr-Cologne-Kassel area to prevent the Germans from transferring forces from their Western front to the east. The clause on Berlin, Leipzig, and Dresden is relevant to the background of one of the war's most controversial air attacks. Except for these alterations, designed to cover a temporary situation, the directive of January 15 governed the strategic air offensive for the rest of the war. 12 177 DRESDEN AND OTHER AREA ATTACKS Sir Arthur Harris continued the area offensive under the thin guise offered by directives allowing bombing of "industrial areas." Bomber Command attacked no less than 30 cities. This involved a smaller portion of its overall efforts than before-about 37 percent, compared to 26 percent on oil targets and 15 percent against transportation. But its power was now enormous; by January 1945 it had a daily average of 1,420 four-engine bombers and Mosquitos ready with crews. In the remaining months of the war it dropped 181,000 tons of bombs, a fifth of the total dropped in the whole war, against slight opposition. One of its attacks, on the city of Dresden, was one of the more devastating attacks on a civilian population of the war, and it became highly controversial. The origins of the Dresden attack were complex, and were interwoven with American operations more than most of Bomber Command's area attacks. During 1944 the British had several times proposed combined attacks on major German objectives to smash morale, in which the British would aim at an area target. If the Americans refused to join in an area attack, they could hit preci- sion targets in the same city. One plan, Thunderclap, had surfaced in July. It envisaged a series of attacks on Berlin, designed to shock, not German civilians, but the high command into seeing that Germany was finished. Afte