it relied on the British Ministry of Aircraft Production for essential maintenance. In June 1942 the ground element of the Eighth's combat units crossed the Atlantic aboard the Queen Elizabeth. Had a lucky U-boat been in the right posi- tion there would have been terrible loss of life, and the air offensive against Ger- many might have been set back a year. The movement of planes was delayed for some weeks as Washington anxiously awaited the outcome of the Battle of Midway; one B-17 group and a fighter group flew to the West Coast in case things went badly. In late June the heavy bombers and the P-38s began leaving Maine for England via Labrador, Greenland, Iceland, and Scotland. Meanwhile, light bombers that had reached Britain by sea carried out the Eighth's first at- tacks on the Germans, accompanying British units.5 American heavy bombers had not even begun operations when it became cer- tain that the air offensive against Germany would be seriously hampered by a massive transfer of forces to Operation Torch, the invasion of northwest Africa, which was decided on July 25. The Eighth Air Force would lose all four of its fighter groups and two of its best prepared B-17 groups, as well as its medium and light bombers, to Gen. James Doolittle's newly formed Twelfth Air Force. Spaatz himself became primarily concerned with preparations for Torch and finally became head of the Northwest African Air Forces under Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Torch commander. Eaker replaced Spaatz as the Eighth's commander in December 1942. In addition to these movements of complete combat units there were important transfers of men (nearly 30,000) and equip- ment from other units to make sure the Twelfth was ready. The Eighth Air Force now had just five B-17 groups and two B-24 groups, one incomplete. It had only one fighter group, the "new" 4th Group, composed of the Eagle Squadrons, made up of American volunteers who had joined the RAF and were transferred to the Army Air Force, alo