ed greatly with the weather, the amount of moonlight, and the position of the target. As many as two-fifths of the bombers had come within five miles of their targets in attacks on the French ports, but only a quarter did so in attacks on Ger- many. In attacks on the Ruhr, the proportion fell to a tenth. There were doubts about how well the photographs had been taken; Peirse and others tried to argue that Butt's report was not conclusive. Some claimed that the weather had been unusually bad or that commanders had given the cameras to their worst crews. But the evidence was too clear, or the night bombers were not bombing ac- curately, because they were usually not even near their targets. Area Offensive Bomber Command might have been dissolved if not for (1) hopes that its navigation could be improved, (2) an already strong current of opinion in favor of area bombing, and (3) the fact that it was the only way to strike Germany in the foreseeable future. Churchill expected the Soviets to survive the Nazi attack, and he was even more certain that the United States would enter the war. But he and other British leaders were unwilling to concentrate the whole British war effort on an invasion of Western Europe without some preliminary weakening of the Germans. During September 1941 the British frankly accepted area bombing. A new radio device, "Gee," under development since 1940, had been successfully tested in May 1941. Its production had been delayed by difficulties with one of its tubes, but it was certain to improve navigation over western Germany; it would let Bomber Command at least find entire cities. (Many hoped that it would permit precision bombing of specific industrial plants, but they were to be disappointed.) Then at least an effective area bombing campaign would be possible. Studies of Britain's experience in the Blitz suggested that massive area attacks on cities would impair production for a time by injuring the workers' morale and wrecking city services