ball bearings production simply failed, for reasons already discussed. The results of the attacks on the aircraft industry were more com- plex. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey later estimated that the Big Week attacks on aircraft plants cost the Germans about two months produc- tion, suggesting that the Germans lost 2,500 planes, including 500 shot down in the air. At least 1,000 planes (possibly more), finished but not yet tested, were destroyed at the factories, while another 1,000 were never built at all. But the Germans' energetic recovery measures paid off. They found that even in buildings that were completely wrecked, tools and equipment had survived under fallen girders and rubble and could be recovered. They salvaged 160 damaged Me-109s from the ruined Erla plant at Leipzig. Moreover, the attacks as carried out (rather than as planned), fell disproportionately on plants making the twin-engine fighters, the value of which was now in sharp decline.14 The Germans hastily began a more radical policy of dispersing the aircraft industry, into a mass of small targets almost immune to economical direct attack. This policy was costly in labor and rendered the industry even more vulnerable to the disruption of transportation which began later in 1944. The attack on the Messerschmitt plant at Augsburg further delayed the development of the Me-262 jet fighter. All this gave a definite, if delayed, value to the Big Week bombings. Although the Army Air Force's official historians later argued that the bombings had denied the Germans many hundreds of planes at a crucial moment before the invasion of France, in fact the Germans replaced the lost planes. During the whole first half of 1944 the number of serviceable aircraft in the Luftwaffe fell only slightly. It would seem that the bombers would have been better occupied striking other targets. But the Germans could not replace good pilots. The true value of Big Week was the destruction of German planes, and pil