ughly recorded than other aspects of the oil struggle.) The Americans had also helped the Soviet advance by pin- ning down fighters and flak in defense of Ploesti and damaging rail installations behind the Axis front. The Fifteenth had dropped 13,469 tons of bombs on oil installations and related transport targets to achieve this, and its cost in lives and planes had not been small. The Americans had lost 223 heavy bombers, 24 fighter-bombers, and 28 escort fighters, while the RAF had lost 38 bombers at night. Because of the Ger- man fighter resistance over Ploesti, Vienna, and some other southern targets, the Fifteenth had had a much higher rate of loss than the Eighth. It lost almost 155 as many bombers in the summer of 1944 as the British-based force, which was twice as big. The men of the Fifteenth sardonically composed a ditty, sung to the tune of "As Time Goes By": "It's still the same old story, the Eighth gets all the glory, while we go out to die. The fundamental things apply, as flak goes by."15 THE SHUTTLE MISSIONS The Americans thought shuttle missions to bases in the USSR would allow attacks on targets beyond the normal range of British or Italy-based planes. They also wanted a precedent for later operations against Japan, using Soviet Far Eastern bases. But ideas about the value of such missions proved greatly exag- gerated. (Curiously, the British were not interested in them, although shuttle missions might have let Bomber Command hit eastern targets otherwise out of reach on short summer nights.) The Soviets agreed "in principle" to shuttle bases in October 1943, but showed little interest in getting things underway, and they cut down the size of the project. The Americans finally were allowed to use three bases in the Ukraine. Although the Soviet personnel they worked with were friendly and cooperative, it became increasingly clear that Stalin had had second thoughts about the whole business. When the bases became operational, it was difficult to ge