y responsible for the failure to deal with the U-boats. To be sure only a few more Liberators were needed to close the gap, as became clear when FDR finally intervened on March 18 to secure more United States Navy Liberators for the task. In fact, the persistence of the air gap in 1942-1943 mav have been due merely to maldistribution of the already available Liberators. for which the navy was responsible. It had 112 Liberators in the Pacific, but none in the vital Atlantic area. 10 It should be noted that without the demands of the strategic air offensive there would have been no four-engine heavy bombers for antisubmarine work. Vic- tory in the Battle of the Atlantic was an accidental byproduct of the commit- ment to strategic bombing, a point many later critics have failed to note. THE EIGHTH AIR FORCE BEGINS OPERATIONS On August 17, 1942, the Eighth Air Force launched its first small heavy- bomber mission. A dozen B-17Es of the 97th Bomb Group, escorted by RAF Spitfires, attacked the repair shops in the Rouen-Sotteville marshalling yards Only half the bombs fell in the target area. A few Messerschmitt 109s went for the bombers, but they neither inflicted nor suffered damage. Two B-17s were slightly damaged by flak; another was damaged, and two men slightly hurt, when it hit an unlucky bird. This was an inauspicious beginning. On August 19 another small force of Fortresses went out on a more important mission, supporting the 79 Canadian raid on Dieppe. They cratered the Abbeville-Drucat airfield, smashing a hangar and destroying or damaging 16 planes. Small attacks, never by more than two groups of bombers, followed against railroad yards, shipyards, and air bases within the radius of Spitfire escort, which was just 175 miles. Unfortunately, the British authorities showed little interest in extending the Spitfire's range. It was basically a short-range plane, but it could have been modified to go farther. The British ace and fighter leader, Wing Commander John Joh