e law. Arnold became acting deputy chief of staff of the Army in November 1940 and head of the newly created Army Air Force on June 20, 1941. THE BRITISH AND THE B-17 Strategic bombing, and the four-engine heavy bomber, retained pride of place as the Army Air Force grew. That growth was necessarily delayed by aid to Britain. In May 1941 the British took over 20 B-17Cs, after the planes were refit- ted with self-sealing tanks, as "Fortress I's." The U.S. Navy would not release the Norden bombsight to the British, who received the harder-to-use Sperry. The Americans advised using the planes only to train a nucleus of crews for later-model Fortresses, but the British, although skeptical of the planes' ability to survive, sent them into combat. They were given to 2 Group, the stepchild of Bomber Command, for unescorted, very-high-altitude attacks deep in enemy territory, in daylight. The RAF again ignored American advice to use the B-17s  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 72 The Americans & the Eighth Air Force in as big a formation as possible between 22,000 and 28,000 feet. Instead, they were sent out in tiny numbers at over 30,000 feet. The results were miserable. the British Fortresses flew just 48 combat sorties. It is unlikely that any harm' was inflicted on the enemy; the most notable feature of the bombing was that on one mission to Bremen, on September 2, 1941, a "neutral" American civilian technician served as a bombardier! Operations were hampered by icing, oxygen and intercom failures, poor maintenance, and badly designed high-altitude equip- ment. The Americans rightly grumbled about British blunders, but the Allies learned a lot about high-altitude operations, and some weaknesses in the B-12 were disclosed in time for changes to the new B-17E.1 THE FORTRESS REDESIGNED Ordered in June 1940 and first flown in September 1941, the B-17E was really a new plane, the first model of the armadas the AAF was to send over Ger- many, in which hundreds of thousands of A