ndow from the bombers. In October they introduced SN-2, a 3.7-meter airborne radar immune to Window, with a longer range than Lichtenstein. Ground and airborne detectors for H2S appeared, along with Flensburg, which could home in on the RAF tail-warning radars. The Germans began replacing the old Me-110s with the better Junkers 88s and later a few  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 66 Area Bombing & the Defeat of Bomber Command Heinkel 219s, designed specifically for night fighting. Their fighters were becoming better armed. In August 1943 they introduced Schrage Musik (jazz music), a cannon mounted to shoot upwards. This let a German fighter slip unseen below a bomber, giving an easy shot at its engines and fuel tanks. 19 For a time the British contained the fighter threat with their own new devices and tactics. There were more and more diversionary operations by Mosquitos and deceptive routing, with feints and sudden changes in direction. This and the further compression of the bomber stream, reducing the time over the target to 26 minutes, had helped to defeat the Wild Sows. But the latter trick was Do help in dealing with the standard night fighters. In November 1943 Harris formed the 100 Group to orchestrate electronic countermeasures and other bomber sup- port efforts. And in October the British introduced Airborne Cigar, wherein some Lancasters carried an extra man who listened for the German controllers and then tuned a jammer to the appropriate frequency. Tinsel jammers tried to drown out the running commentary. Another gimmick, Corona, broadcast false instructions to the fighter pilots. But the enemy beat Tinsel by increasing the power of his transmissions, and after the initial surprise, countered Corona and Cigar too. In December the British belatedly replaced the Serrate Beaufighters with faster Serrate Mosquitos. But Serrate was ineffective against the new SN-2, and the Mosquitos were older models with obsolete radar. The British also introduced new bom