fensive in the Rhineland. The capture of the German-occupied islands and peninsulas in the Antwerp approaches was aided by Bomber Command, which smashed the dykes protecting most of Walcheren Island from the sea. Both Patton's secondary offensive beginning on November 9 and the main Rhineland offensive in the north beginning on November 16 were strongly sup- ported by the Eighth Air Force. On November 16 some 1,191 American heavy bombers were joined by 1,188 RAF heavies, as well as the mediums and fighter- bombers, in the biggest air attack of the whole war. But it was not as effective as that of July 25. In a month of fighting, the Americans advanced less than ten miles. 11 The Germans checked the fall offensive without much interference with their own preparations for a winter counteroffensive, and they scraped up their last resources for the coming attack in the Ardennes. This, and their defensive suc- cesses on the ground, were all the more remarkable because the last resistance in the air was crumbling. And so was the whole basis of their war effort.  9 Decisive Offensives I: Oil, May 1944-September 1944 Up to the spring of 1944 the strategic air offensive had not struck a decisive blow against Germany. It had done much damage; it had forced the Nazis to commit enormous resources to repairs and defense; it had slowed work on new weapons, and it had defeated the Luftwaffe. But it had not critically hurt the German economy, or even seriously interrupted production of a vital item. This was not clear at the time; the Allies overestimated the damage done. Nor had the Allied leaders expected Germany to collapse under strategic bombing; they had viewed it as a softening-up process for an invasion and were content with the apparent results.1 Nevertheless, it had fallen short of the aims set for it. But all of this now changed, even though the strategic air forces were largely committed to supporting the invasion and the fight against the V-weapons. Although Bomber Com