t least over Western Germany. The Eighth now used G-H, and in November it introduced Micro-H. Pulses sent by forward ground stations were picked up by H2X receivers and steered planes with that apparatus to the target. But the Americans really had no substitute for seeing a target. Bomber Command was better equipped for bad weather, but Harris mounted only six small day, and no night, attacks on oil targets in October. Only 6 percent of Bomber Command's bombs were aimed at oil. The Eighth Air Force went after oil targets as hard as the weather allowed, but only four large oil missions were mounted, and the results were not especially good, even on visual attacks. The Fifteenth was more effective, hitting the oil plants at Odertal, Blechhammer, and Brux and the Austrian refineries. But it did not make up for the general lag. In October German oil production recovered to a total of 316,000 tons, in- cluding 21,000 tons of aviation gasoline, and rose in November to 337,000 tons. including 39,000 tons of aviation gasoline. (Speer, whose reports sometimes show discrepancies with later Allied investigations, declared that 41,000 tons of avia tion gasoline were made in November, and that automotive gasoline rose from 37,000 tons in October to 50,000 tons in November, while diesel and jet fuel rose from 66,000 tons to 73,000 tons.) The Germans accumulated a reserve that they considered sufficient for an offensive, although it turned out that they had greatly underestimated their needs. In December the overall fuel shortage finally seriously hurt the mobility of the German army. It had already suffered serious shortages as early as the battle in Normandy, but that had been due mainly to attacks on supply routes and dumps close to the battle areas. The recovery in production was largely due to repairs to major synthetic plants. The output of the small benzol plants actually fell; they were only now being singled out for attack, and many that had not been spotted suffered in a