st that the offensive had not been worthwhile. Indeed, the rise in German production was often cited out of context, with no mention of what happened after that, and the achievements of the oil and transportation offensives were often ignored. Hostile critics, both in Britain and America, sometimes distorted the facts to serve the interests of the Army and Navy in interservice rivalries; others did so from more ideological motives. Although in the 1940s liberals and the Left had been air power advocates, the political Left became retrospectively hostile to strategic bombing. Although the bombing of North Vietnam during the second Indochina war had little in common in either means or purpose with the bombing of Germany, critics of that war belittled the earlier campaign in the belief that this would somehow support their views. A picture was painted of armadas of bombers, manufactured at disastrous expense to the rest of the  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 192 Conclusions war effort, dropping enormous tonnages of bombs either on cities or centers of armaments production with magically little effect, failing in their supposed task of defeating Germany without an invasion.2 But this is not a true characterization even of the results of the British area attacks in 1942-1944, although these attacks certainly did not accomplish what they were supposed to. The bombers were never expected to win the war alone or avert an invasion, and they received a far lower priority than would have been the case had this been planned. The numbers of bombers remained quite small until 1943, and in the British case they usually did not attack German industry. Bomber Command's operational strength was usually below 500 planes until 1943; the Eighth Air Force rarely put more than 100 planes into the air until the middle of that year. The buildup of the bomber force did not precede, but coincided with, the buildup for the D-Day invasion. Most of the bombs dropped on Germany-72 percent, in t