s not yet acute. Unfortunately, the Germans were not stumped about how to attack the B-17 for long. Oberleutnant Egon Mayer, a fighter group commander, realized that it was vulnerable to attack from the front. In a head-on pass the attacker faced less firepower and had a good chance of hitting the cockpit, engines, and wing tanks. But it took skill to aim properly while closing with the B-17s at up to 600 miles an hour, and coming around for another head-on attack was time consuming. When the bombers left heavy contrails, some pilots even preferred attacks from the rear, using the contrails to slip up unobserved. Nevertheless, Mayer had uncovered a weak point in the B-17. Even when both top and ball turrets faced forward there was a zone between them covered only by hand-held guns. The latter were difficult to handle in the cramped nose and hard to aim into the wind, and the officers manning them had not had much gunnery training. Mayer introduced the new tactics when the Eighth attacked the U-boat base at St. Nazaire on November 23. A few weeks later, on January 3, the Germans defending St. Nazaire introduced a new method of directing antiaircraft fire, a "predicted barrage," saturating the area through which the bomber forma- tion was expected to fly instead of trying to follow a target plane continuously. Coping with fighters and flak posed a not entirely soluble dilemma for the Americans, because the measures best calculated to deal with fighters were the opposite of those best to deal with flak. But fighters were clearly the main danger. More hand-held guns were added to the nose, and calls went out for a powered "chin turret." Pilots were told to make a diving turn into attacking Germans to spoil the enemy's aim and bring the top turrets to bear. But there were limits to the ability of bombers to take evasive action; better formations were needed. At first the bombers had flown in three-plane flights with a good deal of space between the two flights of a squad