k of magnesium with a two-pound iron head to insure that it would slam through a roof. The British were slow to obtain a good ballistic container for it, but along with the blockbuster, this humble-looking weapon would turn the cities of Central Europe into ruins. Peirse resisted recommendations for marker bombs and a special fire-raising force to lead the bombers, but the Air Staff put forward a full-blown program for area attacks. Skeptical of the Air Staff's calculations and promises, Churchill stressed that while as many bombers as possible would be built, he envisaged an eventual invasion of Europe if the Americans entered the war. Bombing alone could not be counted on. "Even if all the towns of Germany were rendered largely uninhabitable it does not follow that the military control would be weakened or even that war industry could not be carried on." But he conceded that "it may well be that German morale will crack and that our bombing will play a very important part in bringing the result about."7 GERMAN DEFENSES Bomber Command suffered increasing loses. After the fall of France the Luft- waffe allotted a small force-at first only 35 Me-110s-to the very capable Gen. Josef Kammhuber for defense against night attacks. Radar was the key to suc- cessful night defense. The Germans had two different radar sets. Freya, an early warning radar using a 2.5 meter wavelength, could spot planes as far off as 75 miles but could not give their height. A tracking and fire-control radar, Wurzburg, operating on 53 centimeters, had a range of 20 miles. It could deter- mine the height of a plane and steer searchlights, flak guns, and fighters onto it. A Freya network covered the German coast when the war started; Wurz- burgs became available later. In 1940, the Germans initially used a system called Hellenachtjagd, or illuminated night fighting. Warned of incoming British bombers by Freya, search- lights around the cities tried to light up the bombers for the flak and fighters.