l transportation system and its gas and electric power grids. Coal was plentiful in the Ruhr, but it could not be moved to where it was needed. Even water was short. The Germans tried frantically to keep the area going. Speer outlined the magnitude of the repair efforts to Hitler on November 11. He was sending 4,500 skilled workers to the Ruhr from the rest of Germany, and 50,000 slave laborers were being taken from digging defenses to repair transportation there, while 30,000 men would be taken from armaments production to help with this and to repair the Ruhr industries. Of the Ruhr miners, 10 percent would be trans- ferred to such work. It had been found that the standard farm tractor could get along on naval fuel oil and coal tar oil, and 4,000, about a tenth of the trac tors in Germany, would be sent to the Ruhr to haul food, along with a special allocation of 5,000 tons of fuel oil, and 8,300 coke and anthracite gas generators to power transport vehicles.9 But all this was not enough. At the other end of the tactical spectrum from the area bombing, Bomber Command launched many attacks in support of army and navy operations. In a series of difficult operations, 5 Group's 617 Squadron and 9 Squadron sank the battleship Tirpitz with Tallboys on November 12. This remarkable feat came too late to be of great value. Sinking the Tirpitz in 1942-1943 would have had great strategic significance, but the time was past when the release of the forces the battleship had tied down would have had great impact. 10 It is arguable that THE BATTLE OF THE BULGE The long-planned German offensive in the Ardennes began December 16. It was designed to cut off the northern Allied armies and retake Antwerp. Hitler hoped that this would cause the Western allies to make peace. The offensive and bad weather largely halted American strategic air operations from Britain for nearly a month, although the Fifteenth Air Force kept up the fight. The Eighth Air Force turned to helping the tactica