. Ball bearings were vital to all sorts of vehicles and equipment, especially fighters. The Americans estimated that the Germans' stocks of bearings were low and that few could be "gained" even by drastic cutbacks in nonmilitary uses. The Germans could only moderately increase imports from Sweden and Switzerland, while six months to a year would be needed to rebuild the plants if they were destroyed. Redesigning equipment to reduce the use of ball bearings would take an equal amount of time and would have a limited effect. These calculations proved overoptimistic, but were not baseless. Speer had already warned Hitler  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 86 The Americans & the Eighth Air Force on September 10, 1942, that tank production at Friedrichshafen and the ball bearings plants at Schweinfurt were crucial to the war effort, and Hitler had ordered increased antiaircraft protection for those cities. Although not treated as gospel, the COA report became raw material for , new strategic plan. The Eighth Air Force and the RAF Air Staff drew up a list of primary objectives-submarine yards and bases, the aircraft industry, ball bear ings, oil, synthetic rubber and tires, and military transport vehicles-comprising 76 targets. A committee of American officers and Air Commodore Bufton drew up an operational plan for a "Combined Bomber Offensive," and a more precise order of priorities. Finished on April 12, it warned, "If the growth of German fighter strength is not arrested quickly, it may become literally impossible to carry out the destruction planned." German fighter strength had to be considered "an Intermediate Objective second to none in priority." The plan set an order of priorities: I. Intermediate objectives: German fighter strength II. Primary objectives A. German submarine yards and bases B. The remainder of the German aircraft industry D. Oil (contingent upon attacks against the Romanian city of Ploesti from the Mediterranean) C. Ball bearings III. Secondary o