ember 1944. Since acceptances lagged behind production, actual production must have peaked in July or August. In the whole of 1944 the Germans built 25,860 single-engine fighters, compared to only 9,626 in 1943. The figures may be misleading, since there is good reason to think that some of the "new" fighters were actually serious damaged planes that had been rebuilt in the factories. Nevertheless, even with this discount, more fighters rolled off the assembly lines than ever before. The bombing of aircraft plants did hurt the introduction of new types of planes, however. The effect of the Allied attacks on jet production has already been noted. An attack on the Dornier plant at Friedrichshafen on March 18 wrecked the tooling-up of the Dornier 335, a very fast propeller-driven fighter of radical design; it never appeared in combat. Other attacks delayed production of the Tank 152, the planned successor to the FW-190. It was not planes, but pilots, or at least adequately trained ones, that were lacking. The loss of pilots, on top of an inadequate training program, defeated the Luftwaffe. April 1944 had seen the loss of another 447 pilots, no less than 20.1 percent of those available. Already under strain in 1943, the Germans had nearly doubled the number of new fighter pilots being trained, but only at the cost of reducing the hours of training-and rushing inadequately trained men into combat. There, they inevitably suffered heavy losses against the better trained Allied pilots. Then their replacements, rushed through even faster, arrived even less well trained. A vicious downward spiral developed. From the spring of 1944 the German pilot force was composed of two disparate elements: a slowly declining core of extremely skilled veterans, far more experienced than almost any Allied pilots, and a mass of poorly trained new men, who rarely survived for long. To the end the Luftwaffe had plenty of planes, but on the increasingly rare occasions when it came up to fight, i