le German cities. Much of Bomber Command's efforts were directed against German warships in French ports, which were at  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 30 The Failure of Bomber Command least easier to find. From March 1941 to February 1942 the battle cruisers Scharn- horst and Gneisenau were holed up in Brest. Hidden by smoke screens and heavily defended by flak, they were not rewarding targets. Usually sitting in dry docks. they could not be sunk. Although, as Portal and Peirse warned from the start. these ships could not be destroyed. At great cost, Bomber Command helped keep them out of action at a critical time. The attacks on the big ships, and the belief that the British planned to invade Norway, led Hitler to bring them to the North Sea by the famous "channel dash" of February 1942. During this both ships were damaged, and this would lead indirectly to the loss of Gneisenau. The attacks on the ships had paid off; for one thing, repairing them had tied down many men who would otherwise have been employed in repairing U-boats. The effort expended against the bat- tle cruisers, however, might have been better directed against the U-boat bases at Brest, la Pallice, Lorient, St. Nazaire, and Bordeaux. Huge bunkers to pro- tect the submarine pens were still under construction behind watertight caissons and the Germans considered the pens very vulnerable. The bunkers at Lorient and la Pallice would be finished only by the end of 1941, the rest in mid-1942. But whether Bomber Command could have bombed even these relatively near- by coastal targets accurately was perhaps doubtful.6 The Butt Report On July 9 Bomber Command was released from its overriding commitment to the Battle of the Atlantic, although, as we have seen, it continued to devote many bombs to naval targets. Its new directive emphasized attacks on German morale, alleging that the "morale of the civil population" and the "inland transportation system" were weak points. The former belief, at a time when