rch been done on the problems of bombing or gun- nery; no facilities for this had ever been built. The few experiments made were discouraging; in 1937 it was found that the average crew could not drop bombs closer than 250 yards from an aiming point. This was worse than expected, but much better than could be hoped for against enemy opposition. (The Americans' Eight Air Force, with far better equipment, would only approach this degree  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 10 Origins, Prelude, Doctrine of accuracy after years of experience.) An oddity of the RAF was that it did not have specialized bombardiers; until 1942 the overburdened navigators ("observers") had to aim bombs as well as find the way to the target. Only in 1938 did the RAF admit the need for a 1,000-pound bomb for use against heavy structures like bridges. Some special 1,200-pound bombs were procured to deal with battleships, although they were far too small for that. The RAF's bombs were not only small but weak. Their explosive charge to weight ratio was barely half that of German bombs. The RAF not even have an adequate bombsight. Ludlow-Hewitt suspected that even the planned heavy bombers could not de- fend themselves against fighters. In August 1938 he urged developing escort fighters, arguing that experience in Spain and China had shown that they were needed to overcome enemy defenses. If necessary, he argued, the escorts and even many bombers could be based in France. But given the prevalent convic- tion that it was impossible to build a fighter with the range of a bomber, or at least one that could tackle enemy interceptors, he made little headway. Ideas for increasing the armament of the bombers, perhaps fitting them with 20 mm. cannon, were not welcomed by the Air Ministry. Ludlow-Hewitt also wanted a small fast bomber, roughly like the later Mosquito, to supplement the heavies; it might get through defenses that would stop the bigger planes, albeit with a smaller payload. But the Air Ministr