eral Gerstenberg was still in command at Ploesti and operated as Geilenberg's local counterpart. On May 5, after the oil campaign had been formally approved, the Fifteenth attacked the marshalling yards and oil installations for the fourth time. The Germans tried a large-scale smoke screen but this time it was not par- ticularly effective. An attack on May 18 was partly aborted because of bad visibil- ity, however, and one on May 31 was an outright failure because of the smoke. Despite this, production at Ploesti fell from 370,000 tons, a month before the attack, to 160,000 tons in May. An attack on June 6 was rated a success, but the Americans were sorely puzzled by the growing effectiveness of the smoke screens, while the Nazis took increasing control of the rebuilding effort from the faltering Romanians. On June 10 the Americans tried a new tactic; 36 P-38s went under the smoke to dive-bomb the refineries while others covered them. Three refineries were hit, but 24 P-38s  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 154 Decisive Offensives I: Oil were lost to intense opposition from fighters and flak, while only ten Me-109s went down. Although this was one of the Germans' few successes in fighter- versus-fighter combat, the loss was a high proportion of the defending force in Romania, and some observers thought there was a slackening of resistance thereafter. The fighter-bomber experiment was not repeated. Instead, the heavies shifted their attention to other oil and transport installations in Romania. On June 23 and 24 the Fifteenth bombed Ploesti blindly through the smoke. Production in June fell to 75,000 tons. The Fifteenth got ready to launch H2X missions (it had just received the necessary equipment), while it attacked oil installations at Bucharest and at Brasov, north of Ploesti. On July 9 it returned to Ploesti using H2X for the first time to peer through the smoke screen. The results of this first radar mission were not especially good; they proved better on July 1