imed run from some readily identifiable point. Experiments with this technique in January 1940 were not encouraging, but it was decided that conditions had been unusually unfavorable. In December Ludlow-Hewitt had started another investigation into target finding at night by planes flying over Germany. Their crews were able to spot large railroad yards (which were dimly lit) and factory cooling towers, as well as the Rhine, in moonlight. These flights, however, were made below, often far below, 10,000 feet, and despite Coningham's report, the results were recklessly assumed to be valid for much greater heights. Ludlow-Hewitt decided that training and ex- perience would greatly improve navigation and target finding. In February 1940 he began converting most of his command into a night force. Despite the poor  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 24 The Failure of Bomber Command results of the tests in January, crews were trained to make timed runs from recognized landmarks to the target area, where flares would be dropped to help identify the target. But the available flares were not too effective and were dangerous to handle; in practice flares were little used until 1942. Bomber Command assumed that the enemy's night defenses might improve, but not enough to raise British losses dangerously. Even when techniques and equipment improved, night bombing, even more than other military operations, would be severely constrained, not just by weather but by the phases of the moon and the season. The best results were attained by moonlight; during the early years of the war the grim expression "bomber's moon" replaced "full moon" for a time. (Later, when conditions changed, bombers would avoid moonlit nights.) During the short summer nights, the RAF limited its attacks to western Germany; it could not reach Berlin or targets further east and return under cover of darkness. Geography was tremendously important to night operations. It was always easier to find targets on a coast o