ventually hit the brick wall it encountered in 1944. Its diversion to preparing for D-Day, which will be more fully described later, prevented general recognition of the defeat. D-Day saved Bomber Command's morale and Harris's face. Eventually the change in the situation created by the liberation of France and by American attacks on German fuel production allowed Bomber Command to return to dis- tant targets. It is possible, however, that new tactics, electronic countermeasures, and greater support from Mosquito night fighters with late-model radar, which appeared in the summer of 1944, might have changed the situation even had there been no invasion or attacks on fuel production. As we shall see, these things played a major role in reversing Bomber Command's fortunes.  5 The Americans Join In during 1939-1943: The Emergence of the Eighth Air Force Beginning in 1939, as the British held off the Germans, the United States prepared for eventual participation in the war. The United States Army's small air element began the spectacular growth that would turn it into the mighty Army Air Force, of 2.4 million men and 80,000 planes, the greatest air force in the world. By the fall of 1941 this force, which had been training 300 pilots a year in 1939, was preparing to train 50,000 a year. It is interesting to note that the Army Air Force was the least professional and most civilian-minded of all the American-and probably all Allied-armed services. This, and the high quality of the tiny group of leaders who directed its expansion, was one of the keys to its success. Its commander, General Arnold, was a soldier with a remarkably flexible mind. He was firmly backed by General Marshall, who treated the Air Corps as a quasi-independent service long before it had such status under the law. Arnold became acting deputy chief of staff of the Army in November 1940 and head of the newly created Army Air Force on June 20, 1941. THE BRITISH AND THE B-17 Strategic bombing, and the four-e