e incomplete. It had only one fighter group, the "new" 4th Group, composed of the Eagle Squadrons, made up of American volunteers who had joined the RAF and were transferred to the Army Air Force, along with their Spitfires. The Eagle Squadrons, although formed earlier, had not compiled the spectacular record of the better known Flying Tigers, but they gave the Eighth a core of exceptional pilots. Americans would have even more reason than the British to be grateful for the Eagle Squadrons. The drain to North Africa did not end in 1942. In early January 1943 the newly arrived 78th Fighter Group lost all its P-38s and almost all its pilots to the North African campaign, while four heavy bomber groups originally intended for Britain went to Africa and other theaters. The Eighth was left without any P-38s, the sole American fighter then capable of long-range escort work. Its B-24s were too few to be useful; they could not fly a big enough formation to stand a reasonable chance of defending themselves. Torch accentuated the Eighth's  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 76 The Americans & the Eighth Air Force dependency on the RAF. Many American units arrived without their equip- ment and supplies; the British provided ammunition, bombs, vehicles, tools spare parts, and flying clothing, as well as electronic gear. Lubricating oils brought from the United States proved unsatisfactory and had to be replaced by British products. Much of what effectiveness the Eighth Air Force had in 1943 depended on the help given by the British.6 That help was all the more generous considering that most of the British had little faith in the American plans. (The Americans had no high opinion of the effectiveness of the British area attacks, but were in no position to make an issue of the matter.) Churchill and Portal were particularly critical of the idea of the self-defending bomber. Portal predicted that the Americans would be unable to defend themselves or bomb accurately under heavy attac