fault of the B-17 was inherent in its basic layout. For lack of space, not lifting ability, no Fortress could take anything larger than a 2,000-pound bomb in its bomb bay. The B-17F had external racks enabling it to carry a 4,000-pound bomb under each wing, but bombs in the racks caused so much drag, and other prob- lems, that they were rarely used. Fortresses normally hauled purely internal loads of 4,000 to 6,000 pounds. The United States Eighth Air Force began operations from Britain with a mixture of B-17Es and Fs and a few B-24Ds. The B-24s were initially less well armed, lacking protection underneath and in front, but a 73 retractable belly turret, lowered only in action, was later added, along with a powered nose turret. Ultimately more B-24s were built than B-17s; the Ford Com- pany built a huge plant the size of a city at Willow Run, Michigan, which after much bungling and delay, turned out 500 B-24s a month. The B-24 replaced the B-17 in the Pacific, where it was also used by the Navy, but the B-17 re- mained the preferred bomber in Europe. The B-17s were manned by crews of ten men-considerably larger than those carried by British bombers. The bombardier and navigator worked in the nose and manned the guns there when needed. The pilot and copilot sat above and behind them; aft of them, the flight engineer doubled as the top turret gunner. Behind him was the bomb bay. A catwalk gave access to the colder and draftier rear of the plane. Behind the bomb bay was the radio man. He also manned a .50-caliber gun firing upward toward the rear through a hatch, with a limited field of fire; it supplemented the protection given by the top turret against div- ing attacks. Behind the radio compartment, four full-time gunners manned the two waist guns, the ball turret, and twin machine guns in the tail. The last two positions were the most uncomfortable; the tail gunner worked on his knees, while the ball turret gunner had to squat for hours in an awkward position in- si