that reason remained high until May. The other groups started slowly; the 56th Group had several fighters shot down but did not score a single kill until June 12. On May 4 the P-47s carried out their first escort mission, to Antwerp. It would be months before they reached Germany.18 THE COMBINED BOMBER OFFENSIVE The Eighth's effort was about to be geared to a more detailed and somewhat different plan from that envisaged at Casablanca. Hoping to find a way to do decisive damage in Germany by striking only a few targets; in December 1942 the Army Air Force formed the Committee of Operations Analysts (COA) to pick the best industrial objectives. COA sought to analyze the whole enemy economy, determine the enemy's minimum requirements and production capabilities, and identify the locations and characteristics of targets. It conferred with British analysts and, when information was lacking about Germany, sometimes used comparisons with American industries, though not necessarily correctly. In its report, submitted on March 8, 1943, COA concluded that destroying some 60 specific targets would "gravely impair and might paralyze the Western Axis war effort." It did not set explicit priorities, but listed targets in what seemed to be a descending order of preference: aircraft production, ball bearings production, the petroleum industry, grinding wheels and crude abrasives (that was later drop- ped on British advice), nonferrous metals, and synthetic rubber plants. It overestimated the amount of natural rubber the Germans were getting by blockade running, or it might have rated synthetic rubber production a better target. The report's chief influence was its stress on ball bearings. General Arnold was enthusiastic about the report, and about the ball bearings industry as a target. Ball bearings were vital to all sorts of vehicles and equipment, especially fighters. The Americans estimated that the Germans' stocks of bearings were low and that few could be "gained" even by dra