proposed, Harris predictably argued that it was wrong to divert Bomber Com- mand from the task of smashing German cities and give the Germans a breathing  130 The Strategic Bombing of Germany Strategic Air Offensive/The Normandy Invasion space. In a humbler vein, he declared that his force could not bomb accurately enough to deal with the railroad centers. On February 15 Harris and Spaatz jointly objected to the plan. Harris now suggested that interdiction would be effective. Spaatz argued that the proposed action would divert his bombers from Germany and endanger the winning of air superiority, because the Luftwaffe would not be heavily engaged before D-Day. Unlike Harris, Spaatz had a new strategic alternative in mind. In January the Combined Chiefs of Staff had expressed interest in attacking enemy oil produc- tion. Spaatz and Portal had then opposed this as premature; they preferred to go on attacking German fighter production. But on February 28, right after the Big Week attacks, Spaatz's planners and the Economic Objectives Unit of the U.S. Embassy in London concluded that the USSTAF should turn its atten- tion to oil. Spaatz decided that the arguments of the planners and the embassy unit were sound. On March 5 he urged Eisenhower to give an attack on oil first priority; attacking the Luftwaffe should get second priority; rubber and tire production third; and attacks on German railroad centers fourth-when weather prevented attacks on other targets. An all-out attack on synthetic oil plants in Germany and the oil refineries in southeastern Europe would cut Germany's gasoline supply in half in six months. Line cutting and bridge busting would stop the Germans from reinforcing and supplying Normandy. Privately, Spaatz thought the invasion neither necessary or desirable, although he would do his best to support it. He remarked, later in March, that the invasion could not succeed, but said, "I don't want any part of the blame. After it fails, we can show them how w