inds scattered the bomber stream and gave the Germans plenty of time to steer fighters into it. The British lost 78 planes-9.6 percent of the force. Harris withdrew the older models of the Halifax from attacks on Germany and concentrated on southern German targets. In late March he decided on one more attack on Berlin. Of the 811 planes sent, the British lost 72-9.1 percent-despite careful planning and the cleverest diversionary operations yet.23 A final disaster took place when Bomber Command attacked Nuremberg on March 30-31. Even the official history termed this a "curious operation," marked by "unusually bad luck and uncharacteristically bad and unimaginative plan- ning." The moon was nearly half full, normally too bright for an attack, and Nuremberg was deep in Germany. But it was a lush target, not hit recently and was associated with the aircraft industry. (The aiming point, as usual, was well away from the actual industrial area.) Harris apparently calculated that planned American operations nearby might disrupt the enemy fighter force, and gambled on the weather. Most recent attacks had been farther north; one on Nuremberg would be unexpected. He planned a quick flight while the moon was up, aided by tail winds and covered by high cloud; the return flight would occur after the moon had set. No diversions were planned. The approach was designed to threaten several possible targets, but it involved a long, straight flight near the Ruhr defenses and right past radio beacons the Germans used to rally their night fighters. Some commanders disliked the route. Harris persisted, although late weather forecasts indicated that clouds could not be expected en route but would be found over the target. The crews were surprised to be sent out on a moonlit night and horrified at the "long leg" of the course. But 795 heavy bombers took off. Strong winds dispersed the bombers, slowing them and forcing some off course. There were no high clouds, and the bombers left condensa