Strategic Bombing of Germany 18 Origins, Prelude, Doctrine blind-bombing aids discussed earlier, it was otherwise backward in making use of electronics. When World War II started, the Germans had excellent radar and used shorter wavelengths than the British did. But radar development was promoted by the navy rather than the Luftwaffe. The British made better use of their initially crude radar, and soon took an unbeatable lead by developing the cavity magnetron, which made microwave radar possible. While the Luftwaffe saw the need for fighter escort, its effort to get adequate escorts misfired. It developed the Messerschmitt 110, a heavy twin-engine, twin- seat fighter ("Zerstorer"), for this. The Me-110 had the range to do the job, but lacked the performance to survive against modern Allied single-engine fighters. (The American P-38 seems to have been the only twin-engine, propeller-driven day fighter of World War II that could compete fairly equally with single-engine fighters; as we shall see, even it did not do well at this in the "big league" of air fighting over Northwest Europe.) The Me-110 was exposed as a failure in the Battle of Britain. In an incredible blunder, the Me-109 was not equipped to carry droppable auxiliary fuel tanks until the Battle of Britain was nearly over, although the Heinkel 51, its biplane predecessor, had carried such tanks in Spain. The Battle of Britain showed that the Me-109s lacked the range, and were not numerous enough, to beat the RAF. The Germans failed to draw the correct conclusion about their lack of sufficient single-engine fighters or the vulnerability of the twin-engine fighter; this would impede the defense of Germany. Nazi politics and erratic decisions on research and development hampered the Luftwaffe's development. Good as the Me-109 was, the Germans could have had an even better fighter, the Heinkel 100, which was faster and more rugged. But the Nazi leaders liked Willy Messerschmitt, and they disliked Ernst Heinkel