ee miles of the aiming point. It was soon clear to the middle and rearguard of the bomber force that something unusual was going on. Men smelled smoke in their oxygen masks and found their planes covered with soot. They looked down and saw not many fires, but a single fire that covered four-and-a-half square miles. A tremendous concentration of bombs in a densely built residential area in unusual weather had produced the world's first firestorm. (A contributing fac- tor was the absence of most of the fire fighting equipment, which was still fighting fires from earlier attacks.) There had been a long spell of hot and very dry weather around Hamburg. A pocket of warm, unstable air went up to 10,000 feet above the city, with cold air above and all around it. As the fires raged and combined, the air above them heated and rose. The cooler, oxygen-rich air all around was sucked in and acted as a bellows. Winds of tremendous force developed. For years Germans had been carefully indoctrinated to stay in air raid shelters while an attack lasted. Those who took refuge in the multistory public surface shelters, built of reinforced concrete, with gas-tight doors and set apart from nearby buildings, generally got out alive. But they had to step through fat that had run from the melted bodies of those who had come too late. And there were few such shelters in the firestorm area. Most people went down to modified apartment basements, or in a few cases to specially built underground shelters below businesses. These were well built (better than those available to British civilians) and normally safer against large HE bombs than surface shelters. Now, however, they were death traps. Unless the inhabitants realized in time that they had to get out, and were very lucky, they were doomed. Most, mercifully, did not burn to death; they were poisoned by carbon monoxide or smothered by smoke. As the heat rose their corpses melted, or in some shelters they burned so completely that only a th