e 1920s and 1930s. A few years had seen a change from wooden biplanes with open cockpits and fixed landing gear to metal monoplanes with enclosed cabins, retractable wheels, an immense increase in engine power, and the ability to fly at high altitudes. Variable-pitch propellers and automatic pilots had been introduced. The general belief was that, as Stanley Baldwin said in November 1932, "the bomber will always get through" despite any defenses. The only way to prevent a devastating air attack on Britain-a "knockout blow" that could make it im- possible to fight on-seemed to be the threat of a similar blow to keep a poten- tial enemy in check. "Parity" with Germany in bombers became the aim, and the RAF gained priority over the other services. (As with the fear that the next war would destroy civilization, the concepts of "strategic deterrence" and "parity" thus preceded World War II and the development of nuclear bombs.  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 8 Origins, Prelude, Doctrine A series of rearmament schemes, all stressing bombers, succeeded each other over the next few years. The Air Staff promoted a transition to improved twin- engine "medium" bombers and in 1936 planned the "heavy bombers" with four engines that would come into service in World War II. The Short Stirling and the Handley-Page Halifax were designed to these specifications. Less successful- ly, a two-engine "medium heavy," the Avro Manchester, was also ordered. (It was a failure, but was redesigned and became the four-engine Lancaster, the most successful heavy bomber of all.) Wanting a big force as soon as possible, the British built many obsolescent planes, like the horrible Battle light bomber. The all-out priority for bombers, however, was ended by a turn toward air defense. For a time the development of fighters lagged behind that of bombers. But in the late 1930s the development of radar, and faster and more heavily armed fighters, suggested that the bomber might not get through a proper