citly. The development of a U.S. strategic bombing force was more closely tied to a specific plane, the famous Boeing B-17. Although flawed, the achievements of the American airmen were remarkable given the strong hostility of the dominant element in the United States Army and Navy, which climaxed in the court-martial of Gen. Billy Mitchell. During the 1920s the Army General Staff harassed and snubbed the airmen. Although the chiefs of staff in the 1930s, generals Douglas MacArthur and Malin Craig, were relative- ly enlightened on the subject of air power, many crusty reactionaries had little use even for air operations in direct support of ground forces. Gen. Hugh Drum, who might well have become chief of staff in 1939 instead of George C. Mar- shall, held that antiaircraft fire could deal with any attack and that the Army did not need any plane capable of flying more than three days' march ahead of the infantry. Fortunately, General Mitchell himself, his less well known con- temporary and rival Gen. Benjamin Foulois, and a group of younger men, of whom the most prominent were Frank Andrews, Henry H. Arnold, Carl Spaatz, Ira Eaker, and George C. Kenney, all generals in World War II, formed an outstanding group of leaders. The American interest in strategic bombing dated back to World War I. In 1918 a relatively junior officer, Lt. Col. Edgar S. Gorrell, inspired by ideas picked up from the British and from the Italian aircraft designer Giani Caproni, had  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 12 Origins, Prelude, Doctrine proposed an air campaign against targets in western Germany. He favored bombing the railroads that connected the iron mines in Lorraine with Germany. Gorrell's ideas had had only a limited impact; the Americans concentrated their air efforts on targets in or just behind the lines. They only carried out one at- tack on the railroads. But Mitchell, Foulois, and others were impressed by Gor- rell. Unlike the British, they did not feel compelled to exagger