fleeting targets to enemy flak, and the usual fighter tactics would be ineffective. This scheme did not arouse universal enthusiasm, but it gradually edged out a rival plan for a high-level attack from Syria. At the Washington conference in May, the Combined Chiefs decided to at- tack Ploesti, which, it was thought, would be especially helpful to the Soviets. General Eaker, although he later turned against the Ploesti plan, had also argued that it was necessary to hit Ploesti before striking the Germans' synthetic oil plants. The Combined Chiefs ordered two B-24 groups, temporarily transferred from the Eighth Air Force to Africa to support the invasion of Sicily, to attack Ploesti. The new 389th Bomb Group, scheduled to leave the United States for England, would join them as an additional "loan."5 The Ninth Bomber Command withdrew all five of its B-24 groups from opera- tions on July 20 to prepare for Ploesti. Auxiliary tanks were installed to provide fuel for the 2,700-mile round-trip; the Norden sights were replaced by simple low-altitude bombsights, and many planes were reengined. To "discourage" enemy flak gunners, extra guns were installed in the B-24s that would be in lead flights, and crewmen who would not otherwise be occupied in the attack were given submachine guns to shoot out the windows. The crews practiced low-level flights and attacks on a dummy Ploesti in the desert, and studied elaborate relief models of the target area.  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 96 The Abortive Offensive The plan was to have all five groups fly in column, led by the 376th Bomb Group. It would be followed by the 93rd, 98th, 44th, and 389th Groups. Cross ing the Mediterranean west of Greece, they would turn northeast, climbing to 10,000 feet to pass over Corfu and the Albanian coast, which was backed by high mountains. Past the worst of the mountains, they would descend to cross the Danube below 5,000 feet. On reaching Pitesti, the 389th Group would peel off to fly to its tar