t indiscriminate bomb- ing to terrorize people was improper; bombers should attack production, transpor- tation, and communication facilities, the destruction of which would also have tremendous impact on the morale of enemy civilians. The RAF did not claim to be able to win a war on its own, although its staff may have privately hoped it could do so. It aimed at a policy of "strategic interception," cutting off the supplies of the enemy's armed forces at their sources, enabling the army to at- tack successfully. But the idea of striking civilian morale, like that of evading enemy defenses at night, lurked under the surface and made it easier for the British to turn to these concepts during World War II. The practicality of the RAF theories, and the crucial problems of navigation and bombing, were not analyzed in the 1920s and 1930s. Trenchard invested much of its small budget in luxurious bases, rather than in aircraft development or in experimental sta- tions for the study of war techniques. The RAF was confident in the destruc- tiveness of its small, high-explosive bombs. It was assumed, on the basis of miscalculations made from World War I experience, that a ton of bombs dropped on city targets would kill or injure 50 people. (In reality each ton killed or hurt 15-20 people.) When Hitler seized power in 1933 and the prospect of a new world war became real, the RAF had a corps of fine pilots, but was technically behind foreign air forces. The degree of rearmament that began in 1934 was still oriented toward imperial policing.6 Of its 41 squadrons, 22 had light bombers known to be useless in a European struggle. It was dominated by a conservative, bureaucratic Air Ministry and Air Staff. Britain had lagged behind in the revolution in air- craft construction of the late 1920s and 1930s. A few years had seen a change from wooden biplanes with open cockpits and fixed landing gear to metal monoplanes with enclosed cabins, retractable wheels, an immense increase in eng