avy" squadrons, which were soon reclassified as "medium" and had just over 200 operational planes, were only somewhat better off. Until 1942 Bomber Command's main force was equipped with planes comparable in size 11 and bomb load to those used by the tactical air forces to support Eisenhower's armies in 1944-1945, rather than those of the strategic air armadas that would devastate Germany's industry and cities. These planes, Hampdens, Whitleys, and Wellingtons, were poorly streamlined; the first two types were obsolescent even by prewar British standards. Only the Wellington was an outstanding design; the Air Ministry had been reluctant to buy it. These three types of planes took most of the men serving in Bomber Command in September 1939 to prisoner-of-war camps or graves. Except for its fighters, the RAF had few good planes during the first two years of the war. Its only truly successful strike aircraft in this period were the Well- ington and the Beaufort, a fine torpedo bomber built only in small numbers. The RAF had neglected maritime aircraft and the support of the army. After many years of effort, it had formed a small, poorly equipped strategic bombing force that would turn out to be unable to reach its targets during the day or find them at night, and in fact could not have done much damage even if it had.9 The reputation of the RAF would be redeemed, and Britain's safety in- sured, by Fighter Command. THE ARMY AIR FORCE AND ITS DOCTRINE The United States Army Air Force entered World War II in 1941 with a doc- trine of strategic bombing that was like the RAF's, but more carefully worked out. The United States Army's air element, although very small, was more in- terested in the technical problems involved in strategic bombing and formulated its ideas more explicitly. The development of a U.S. strategic bombing force was more closely tied to a specific plane, the famous Boeing B-17. Although flawed, the achievements of the American airmen were remarkable giv