sup- plied by the huge British bombs. The Bielefeld Viaduct was smashed with Tallboys on February 22 but once again was repaired. The British now introduced the Grand Slam, the full-scale "earthquake bomb" Wallis had envisaged years earlier. On March 13 the Grand Slam was successfully tested, and the very next afternoon 617 Squadron sent 14 Lancasters with Tallboys and one with a Grand Slam to the Bielefeld Viaduct. They made such a mess of the viaduct that it was never rebuilt; after the war the Germans built a bypass. Tallboys and Grand Slams also swiftly smashed the Altenbecken Viaduct and the Arnsberg, Arburgen, Nienburg, and Bremen bridges. By March 24 the Ruhr had been practically isolated for all purposes. Ten of the eighteen exits were destroyed; three were damaged and impassable; two were closed by Allied artillery fire; one was partly passable; and two were usable. The practical effects of the inter- diction plan were perhaps limited, but it showed what might have been ac- complished had interdiction of the Ruhr started earlier. On March 23 the Allies crossed the Rhine north of the Ruhr. As usual, much of the strategic air forces' work was in support of the attack on the ground; the Eighth Air Force bombed no less than 34 airfields to prevent interference by the Luftwaffe. On April 1 the U.S. Ninth Army, flanking the Ruhr from the north, met the First Army, which had broken out of the Remagen bridgehead to the south, and trapped German Army Group B, with 325,000 men, in the great industrial region. The Allies were attacking transportation far beyond the Ruhr, and not only in the special attacks designed to aid the Soviets. The Eighth Air Force alone had attacked marshalling yards on 17 days in January; in February and March, respectively, it flew against railroad targets on 15 and 18 days, hitting at least 90 different marshalling yards, as well as railroad bridges. If anything, it dis- persed its efforts too widely. On February 22-23 the Eighth and the ot