nterceptors until the last minute, and just 2 bombers of the 97 reaching the target were lost. (A third was scrapped after return.) On this mission new techniques produced the most accurate bombing, and the 83 biggest blow against U-boat construction, so far. The Allies estimated that seven U-boats had been badly damaged and that the yard would be largely out of operation for a year or more. That was grossly optimistic. The completion of one U-boat was delayed by 15 weeks! This illustrated the futility of the anti- U-boat campaign, although the attacks on the yards in Germany hurt the Ger- mans more than the attacks on the French bases. Ironically, the last mission against a U-boat base, on June 28, provided an unexpected recompense for a vast waste of effort, because a 2,000-pound bomb penetrated the concrete bunker at St. Nazaire. This freakish event so perturbed the Germans that they thickened the concrete protecting the bases at the expense of work on coastal defenses. On April 17 the Americans struck their first important nonsubmarine target in Germany, the Focke-Wulf plant at Bremen. This time evasive routing did not work so well. A German plane spotted the Americans well out over the North Sea, and the interception was skillfully managed. The toughest air battle yet resulted. Of 107 bombers reaching the target area, 16 were shot down. The Germans lost just 5 fighters to American fire; the Americans claimed 62! Despite the opposition, the bombing was accurate, but Focke-Wulf production had already been largely dispersed elsewhere. The heavy losses worried the American command. During the first five months of 1943, American equipment and performance improved. In March the crewmen began to get body armor-"flak suits." Bombing accuracy crept upward. In February only 20 percent of bombs hitting within 1,000 feet of the aiming point was considered good; by April 30, 40 percent was common. The Vegesack mission saw the introduction of bombing with the use of automati