o Kassel with the rest of the 2nd Division the next day. There were big battles with German conventional fighters on September 28 and October 6 and 7. Using high cloud as cover, Sturmgruppen jumped exposed squadrons and inflicted heavy losses, although at a high cost to themselves. The Germans were far from through. After losing France, they had concen- trated their fighters at home, leaving only minimal forces on the battlefronts. They planned a comeback, the Great Blow, a massed attack with conventional fighters to win a respite for the oil plants, and for conversion fully to jets.  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 172 The scheme was to field the biggest possible force, including flight instruc- tors, with at least 2,000 single-engine fighters. Large formations built around Sturmgruppen were to be hurled against the bombers in the main attack, while smaller forces to the west engaged the Americans as they entered and left Germany. As many planes as possible of the main force would refuel and rearm for a second sortie. Night fighters would patrol the approaches to Switzerland and Sweden to catch bombers fleeing there. Galland hoped to down 400-500 bombers for the loss of 400 German fighters and 100-150 pilots. Some of the Luftwaffe's operations during this period were practice for the Great Blow. On November 2, as 1,100 bombers and 873 escort fighters went to Merseburg-Leuna, some 300-400 fighters came up, the largest force to con- test an Eighth Air Force operation since early June. Yet again, a German controller noted that two groups of the 1st Bombardment Division were away from the rest. A Sturmgruppe pounced on them, destroying 26 B-17s. The 3rd Division lost 12 planes, and 16 American fighters went down. But the Germans paid a terrific price; they lost perhaps 120 planes, with 70 pilots killed and 28 wounded-nearly a tenth of the available pilots. Hitler lost faith in the Great Blow. He decided to use the fighters in the Ardennes offensive, although a few lar