ur or five months, simply bounced off. The area offensive continued to the end of the war; in fact, as we shall see, one infamous series of area attacks was backed by Portal himself. The area attacks of the last part of the war were of unprecedented weight and ferocity. After penetrating to distant Stettin and Koenigsberg in August, Bomber Command switched to attacks, sometimes in the day, on nearer coastal cities such as Kiel, Bremerhaven, and Emden and scattered cities in the Rhineland and southwestern Germany. A night attack on Darmstadt by 5 Group, on September 11, was especially destructive. It introduced a new technique designed to distribute the bombs so as to maximize destruction. The 218 Lancasters delivering the main attack con- verged on the target along different axes, bombing only after set delays after passing the markers. This insured that the bombs were not scattered too widely, nor some areas "overbombed." The efficient spread of the incendiaries in what the Germans called a "death fan" set off a firestorm like the ones at Hamburg and Kassel. Between 8,000 and 12,000 people were killed. Bomber Command opened a second "Battle of the Ruhr" on October 6-7 with an attack on Dortmund. As in the first battle, the Ruhr was merely the main point of concentration. While blasting no less than 16 cities there, Bomber Command hit an equal number of cities in the rest of western Germany. The attacks on the Ruhr were truly gigantic; 9,000 tons of bombs fell on Duisburg within 24 hours. Essen was hit by 1,055 bombers on October 23-24 and  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 174 Decisive Offensives II: Transportation 175 the two squadrons and their Tallboys might have been better used against the bridges and viaducts leading from the Ruhr. another 771 on October 25. The Ruhr had been so devastated by fire in 1943 that there was little left to burn; 85 percent of the bombs dropped there now were high explosives. The destruction was not far short of what might be seen i