0 planes, with 70 pilots killed and 28 wounded-nearly a tenth of the available pilots. Hitler lost faith in the Great Blow. He decided to use the fighters in the Ardennes offensive, although a few large-scale intercepts did take place. The German fighters did not engage again until November 21, when the Mustangs caught some enemy formations assembling. They again inflicted heavy losses on the Germans on November 26, although one whole bomber squadron went down. On November 27, as a comparatively modest force of 483 bombers. with 727 escorts, struck marshalling yards in western Germany, the Germans put up 750 sorties-their biggest effort of the whole war. But they mistook the escort force for the bombers and blundered right into it. Not one bomber was lost to any cause that day; the Americans claimed 98 German fighters for the loss of 12 P-51s and P-47s. The American claims were probably exaggerated, but 37 German pilots were killed and 14 wounded. The outcome of the November battle suggested that a comeback had never been a real possibility for the Luft- waffe. There were not enough trained pilots or, even with the partial recovery of fuel production, the fuel to permit the pilots they had to practice. Indeed, the very weather that hampered the Americans prevented a big operation or even the preparations for one.8 THE SECOND BATTLE OF THE RUHR Bomber Command, because of its heavier bombs and greater accuracy, par- ticularly in marginal weather, had a tremendous impact in the campaigns against oil and transportation-when Harris deigned to let it take part. He continued to concentrate on area attacks. In the last three months of 1944, 53 percent of Bomber Command's bombs went into area attacks and only 14 percent were used on oil targets, 15 percent on transportation, and 18 percent on military and naval targets. Decisive Offensives II: Transportation 173 Harris's ability to persist in the area offensive, despite inter-Allied directives, and the views of Portal and th