rs, were the main enemy, in the most furious air battle of the war. The Germans used the same tactics as at Münster, concentrating on a single formation at a time. Single-engine fighters, some using rockets, mostly attacked from head-on or just off to the side. Twin-engine fighters and bombers came in from the rear. Standing out to one side to avoid the tail guns, they fired rockets and blasted away with heavy cannon. On this mission they left crippled planes to the single-engine fighters; their aim was to disrupt the formations. The Germans concentrated on the 1st Division; the 3rd's turn apparently confused them, and it suffered less. Despite terrible losses, about 228 planes reached Schweinfurt, bombing with remarkable accuracy. Then the Germans hounded the B-17s right back to the coast, as weather prevented the arrival of the withdrawal escort. Over Europe, 60 bombers went down, and another 5 crashed in England; a dozen more had to be scrapped. Of the men, 605 were missing or dead, and 43 wounded. Morale at American bomber bases hit rock bottom. As after Ploesti, the extent of the losses caused widespread questions. President Roosevelt held an embarrassing press conference, notable for its obfuscations.  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 106 The Abortive Offensive General Arnold claimed, "The opposition isn't nearly what it was, and we are wearing them down." The wild claim that the enemy had lost over 700 planes in the first half of October was played up. (The Americans had claimed 186 on October 14 alone, when the actual German losses were 43.) 107 But the men in England knew better. Schweinfurt had shown that unescorted attacks deep into Germany were not even tolerable as occasional enterprises in the interim before the Eighth received long-range fighters. Unlike the August 17 mission, this one had been as well planned and executed as such an opera tion could possible be; after hours of the fiercest imaginable attack, the bomb ing had been better than could ha