s as a war-winning device, and from the start of the war they, and the Ger- man admiralty, clamored for attacks on Britain. But the Kaiser reluctantly authorized an offensive against Britain only in January 1915, insisting that only military establishments and targets clearly related to the war effort-for example, 3 docks and oil storage tanks-be attacked. Until May 1915 he forbade attacks on London. But it soon became clear that plans to hit only specific targets of military importance-what would be called "precision bombing" in World War II-could not be carried out. The complicated bombsight used in the Zeppelin was capable of considerable accuracy, but the crewmen had not been properly trained to use it. In any case, the opposition was such that the Zeppelins could attack only at night. Winds caused large errors in navigation. Zeppelin raids (the biggest was launched by 16 airships) only occasionally damaged an impor- tant target. During the whole war, 51 airship attacks dropped only 196 tons of bombs on Britain, killing 557 people. Although the Zeppelins' effectiveness was so limited, the British made con- siderable efforts to stop the attacks; they could not allow attacks on their capital and biggest city to go unopposed. By the end of 1916, twelve squadrons of planes and 17,341 men were stationed in Britain to defend against Zeppelins. Although full of highly flammable hydrogen, Zeppelins were harder to destroy than might be expected, but in late 1916, British fighters, climbing to the Zeppelins' stan- dard heights of 12,000-13,000 feet and firing newly developed incendiary bullets, finally made the attacks too costly. However, the Germans continued to hope that attacks on Britain would pay off by lowering British morale and forcing the British to keep important forces at home. They pursued two lines of endeavor to overcome the British defenses, introducing airplanes, and new airships that could fly over the British defenses. New Zeppelins that could fly highe