ort of the aims set for it. But all of this now changed, even though the strategic air forces were largely committed to supporting the invasion and the fight against the V-weapons. Although Bomber Command was in a difficult position, the Americans could now go anywhere in occupied Europe and had enough bombers to strike at the decisive targets: the enemy's oil production and transportation systems. Now the Americans were strong enough to take them on even while other tasks had priority. On D-Day the Eighth Air Force reached its final complement of 40 heavy bomber groups (2,100 planes) and 15 escort fighter groups (nearly 1,000 fighters.) The equipment of the heavy bomber units did not change much during the rest of the war, save for the conversion of five B-24 groups to B-17s and the addition of still more planes to each group. But formations were altered to improve bombing accuracy and reduce losses to flak. The superiority of American fighters grew even more marked. The new P-51D, with a cut-down fuselage, bubble canopy, and heavier armament, was arriving. It eventually equipped 14 of the Eighth's fighter groups. Only the 56th Group retained later models of the P-47, with bigger drop-tanks. Fighter pilots got G-suits to cope with tight turns and pull-outs, and superior gyroscopic gunsights.  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 144 Decisive Offensives I: Oil THE GERMAN OIL INDUSTRY An attack on oil production required hitting many targets; the Allies listed 81 targets when they started the campaign and wound up attacking 135, although most of those later added to the list were minor storage sites, while 90 percent of production was concentrated in 54 large refineries and synthetic oil plants. Until 1944, apart from the escort problem, the USSTAF had not had enough bombers to deal with the oil installations, while Bomber Command at least had not been supposed to have the accuracy to help out. Germany's oil situation had actually improved in late 1943 and early 1944. Sy