win machine guns in the tail. The last two positions were the most uncomfortable; the tail gunner worked on his knees, while the ball turret gunner had to squat for hours in an awkward position in- side his turret. (The B-24 layout was roughly similar, save that the radio operator was in front of the bomb bay and its later models had a full-time gunner in the nose.) However uncomfortable they were, B-17 crewmen could depend on their planes. Fortresses got home after being practically torn in two, or as half- burnt-out hulks, or with as many as 3000 holes from bullets and shells.2 AIR WAR PLANS On July 9, 1941, President Roosevelt asked the War and Navy departments to prepare an estimate of the overall production requirements needed to defeat the United States' potential enemies. This required some sort of overall war plan, to determine what the requirements were. The Army Air Force hastened to develop its own plan, lest the War Department prepare an "air annex" to a ground-force-oriented scheme, mentioning only tactical air operations. The Air War Plans Division had been studying the industrial vulnerabilities of Germany and Japan for some time, aided by an RAF intelligence digest on German in- dustrial targets. It completed AWPD-1, "Munitions Requirements of the Army Air Forces to Defeat Our Potential Enemies," in August. It was submitted to the joint board, the predecessor of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on September 11-the same day that FDR's "shoot-on-sight" order began de facto war with Nazi Germany. Like previous plans for war with both Japan and the European Axis, AWPD-1 envisaged a primarily defensive stance against Japan while an offensive was under- taken in Europe. It assumed that the United States would enter the war by April 1942. Major operations would not start until July 1943. They would culminate in an all-out attack from April to September 1944. The ultimate offensive force  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 74 The Americans & the Eighth Air Force wou