d quickly. The limitations of the techniques in use became clear. A series of attempted precision attacks by small forces on more French factories failed more often than not, while a mixed attack on Stuttgart, in which part of the force tried to attack the Bosch plant, a vital source of generators, injection pumps, and magnetos for planes, hurt neither the city nor the factory. 11 Harris now decided to show what Bomber Command could do, not with the force at hand, but with what he might have in some years. At a time when 47 his force normally numbered 416 planes, he decided to assemble a special force of 1,000 planes and send it against a single city, at the risk of deranging the future growth of the command. He mustered every available plane from Bomber Command's operational units, its conversion units (on which crews transitioned to new types of planes), and training groups. (He gained a promise of 250 planes from Coastal Command, but the Admiralty blocked its participation.) On the night of May 30-31, 1,046 bombers set out for Cologne. It was purely an area attack. Cologne, Germany's fourth-largest city, was easy to find and there was a full moon; the attackers dispensed with flares, as 868 planes bombed the city. The British lost 41 bombers, along with 3 night intruders sent by Fighter Com- mand in an attempt to disrupt enemy night fighter operations, and 12 more bombers were damaged beyond repair. The attack was very effective, destroy- ing 600 acres of built-up area and 36 factories and killing 500 people; 13,000 homes were destroyed or damaged. Harris kept the "thousand force" together for a few more blows. On June 1 he sent it against Essen; only 31 planes were lost, but the attack failed, just as others against the Ruhr. On June 25-26 an attack by 960 planes was launched on Bremen. This was partly a precision attack; 5 Group was ordered to bomb the Focke-Wulf plant, while 102 bombers on loan from Coastal Command, which the Admiralty had finally allowed to p