icans, and more than a hundred were killed. Similar attacks remained a feature of major Allied offensives, although some observers doubted that they were usually worthwhile. They especially disliked attacks on towns and cities just behind the German front, arguing that by the time Allied troops arrived, a smashed town was a tougher defensive position than one still intact, and the blocked roads and streets hampered Allied movements more than they hurt the retreat or supply efforts of the Germans. During August, as the Allies broke out of Normandy, the Eighth extended its attacks on transportation eastward, while Bomber Command smashed enemy fuel storage depots in the forward area. To stem the Allied advance, the Germans rushed their painfully rebuilt reserve of nearly 800 fighters to France. Huge numbers of these were shot down, caught on the ground, or landed in areas the Allies were overrunning. General Galland estimated that the dissipated reserve destroyed only 25 Allied planes, for the loss of 400 German fighters. To keep the ground forces supplied, some 200 B-24s were used as transports for nearly a month after August 28. The strategic air forces also supported the attempt by airborne troops to grab a bridgehead over the lower Rhine at Arnhem. Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force bombed flak positions to protect the unarmored, low-flying troop carrier planes; over the next few days American heavy bombers dropped supplies to the airborne troops. On September 18 a force of 107 B-17s carried out an even farther-reaching operation to supply the Polish resistance forces fighting in Warsaw. But that operation was too late to do much good. When the British were defeated at Arnhem, Eisenhower concentrated on open- ing the sea route to Antwerp and preparing an autumn offensive in the Rhineland. The capture of the German-occupied islands and peninsulas in the Antwerp approaches was aided by Bomber Command, which smashed the dykes protecting most of Walcheren Island f