ion of targets in 1943 was important. Had the Allies chosen more wisely, successful American attacks on one or more of the small target systems mentioned above (and RAF attacks on tank components production at Friedrichshafen) would not have caused the instant collapse of Germany. The Germans were more formidable than that. They probably would have rebuilt rubber plants underground, or built dispersed lubricating-oil refineries in eastern Europe, or in some other way have recovered from these attacks, eventually- as they could not get around the destruction of the whole oil industry or transpor- tation system. But in 1943 almost anything that seriously hurt war production or halted a vital item for months would have made it practically impossible for the Germans to replace the equipment and supplies lost in the defeats of the summer of 1944. The war could not have been prolonged into 1945. The last price exacted by the mistakes of the combined bomber offensive plan was simply the persistence in it through the early months of 1944. Spaatz and Portal did not realize that the Luftwaffe could be defeated by shifting the attack from aircraft plants to oil production, as the Combined Chiefs of Staff suggested at the time. That, too, helped prolong the war. NAZI MISTAKES The Nazis made military mistakes, too, which contributed to the Allied vic- tory. Their blunders in air matters fell into three categories: technical develop- ment, production and training, and tactics. The grossest and perhaps most avoidable blunders committed by the Germans lay in their lapse in technical development after the introduction of the Me-109 and their standard bombers. This lapse may already have begun in the late 1930s, and not just after the fall of France, when Hitler, assuming that the war was already won, ruled against long-range development programs and Germany failed to produce sound follow- ons to the planes it had in 1939. While the Allies produced many new types of planes, some of w