ast, which was backed by high mountains. Past the worst of the mountains, they would descend to cross the Danube below 5,000 feet. On reaching Pitesti, the 389th Group would peel off to fly to its target, the Steaua Romana refinery at Campina, well north of Ploesti and the other targets. The other four groups would fly to Floresti, then turn southeast for the final run to Ploesti, dropping to attack height, between 100 and 300 feet, and splitting into six forces, each assigned a single refinery After bombing, the B-24s would rendezvous to exit from the Balkans via Corfu That was the plan. . . . It might have been different had the Western powers had a truer picture of the defenses. But their intelligence was astonishingly bad, considering that many Romanians (not to mention Romanian Jews) were pro-Allied and the Allies had many potential contacts; the oilfields were largely owned by Western interests The Allies were reluctant to fly reconnaissance missions lest they tip off the enemy that something was planned. Enemy air strength was believed to include about 100 Me-109s (some Romanian), 30 Me-110 night fighters, and some obsolete Romanian-built fighters. The effective Axis air strength may have been slightly overestimated, but on the ground the enemy was far stronger than the Allies supposed. Ploesti's defenses had been carefully prepared by a Luftwaffe general, Alfred Gerstenberg. There were 250 or more guns, four-fifths of which were German manned, and hundreds of machine guns. There was far more camouflage than the Allies expected Gerstenberg had had a trunk pipeline laid between the refineries, so knocked out units in one plant could be quickly replaced by intact units in another. On August 1, 177 B-24s headed out over the Mediterranean. Another crashed on takeoff. They were commanded by Brig. Gen. Uzal Ent, who flew with the 376th Group's commander, Col. Keith Compton, but as the result of a last minute switch, not in the lead plane. The mission was already le