46 struck an Me-110 plant at Gotha. It was hoped that these attacks, and one by the Fifteenth Air Force on Steyr, would attract the enemy fighters and let five wings hit the targets in northeast Germany that had been saved by weather on February 20. The ploy worked, at heavy cost to the forces attacking Gotha and Steyr, but weather again forced an attack on Rostock. The targets at Gotha and Schweinfurt were hit hard, but ball bearing production there had already been dispersed. The Eighth lost 44 bombers of 505, and the Fifteenth lost 17 of a force of just 87. American fighters claimed 38 German planes for 10 of their own lost. That night Bomber Command finally struck Schweinfurt. On February 25 the weather allowed a last day of concentrated effort. The Eighth attacked the ball bearings plant at Stuttgart and aircraft plants at Augsburg, Fürth, and Regensburg; the Fifteenth struck another plant at Regensburg. The Germans concentrated on the Fifteenth's bomber force, which had no escort in the target area, downing 33 of its 176 planes, while the Eighth lost 31 bombers of the 754 dispatched and junked another 3. The Eighth's escort claimed 26 German planes for 3 missing in action and 2 more damaged beyond repair. The bombing was very accurate, and more concentrated against single- engine fighter plants than previous attacks. Then the weather closed in; Big Week was at an end. When the Eighth next visited Brunswick on February 29, it bombed on radar. The Eighth and Fifteenth Air Forces together had lost 226 heavy bombers and 28 fighters, and about 2,600 men. The RAF had lost 157 bombers, while dropping 9,000 tons of bombs on Schweinfurt, Augsburg, Steyr, and Leipzig. The Eighth had dropped 10,000 tons of bombs, nearly 4,000 of which fell on aircraft plants. The attacks on ball bearings production simply failed, for reasons already discussed. The results of the attacks on the aircraft industry were more com- plex. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey later estimat