k critical targets. Meanwhile, B-24 units that Eaker had parted with earlier were trying for a "decisive" blow. PLOESTI On August 1, 1943, as the Eighth Air Force was preparing to attack Schwein- furt, an American force in the Mediterranean theater carried out another costly operation, the famous low-level attack on the oil refineries at Ploesti. This opera- tion had certain affinities with the attack on the Ruhr dams. It was an attempt to wreck a vital installation with a single attack at low level, by heavy bombers accustomed to operating far higher. Ploesti was the main source of natural petroleum in Axis Europe; it supplied about a fourth of Germany's fuel. It was especially important as a source of fuel for the Eastern front. The idea of attacking Ploesti had been alive since 1940. but the German conquest of Greece and Crete had prevented action. Some Soviet bombers had struck Ploesti in 1941 before the Soviets were driven far to the east, beyond easy range. The British were hard pressed and short of bombers, but nevertheless considered an air attack on Ploesti, perhaps in con- junction with a raid by a paratroop force. The extreme distance from Allied bases and other problems forced them to put the idea aside repeatedly. An American force carried out the first Western attack on Ploesti in June 1942. The attack was the byproduct of an abortive scheme to bomb Tokyo from bases in China. A small force of B-24s, en route to China via the Atlantic Ocean and Africa, was diverted to Egypt when the deteriorating situation in China made it unlikely that an attack could be launched there. The force was then ordered to bomb Ploesti, in the hope of interfering with the German summer 95 offensive against the Soviets. On the night of June 11-12, thirteen B-24Ds left Egypt. Twelve reached the Ploesti area at dawn, only to find it blanketed by cloud. They bombed on "estimated time of arrival" over the Astra Romana refinery, the biggest in Europe, doing no damage, and landed al