t that Harris made appalling mistakes, especially in the last year of the war, but even his worst critics have agreed that he was a real leader and a vast improvement on Peirse, a man of little initiative or drive. Harris was a man of brutal determination, and his per- sonality impressed everyone. For much of the war he overawed Portal and vir- tually dictated policy, against his superior's better judgment. His air crews respected him even while they dubbed him "Butcher" Harris. (Whether this re- ferred to his acceptance of heavy losses or to what he was doing to the Germans is unclear.) He was not an innovator. While commanding 5 Group he had been particularly stubborn in insisting that his bombers could defend themselves dur- ing the day, and later that they were hitting their targets at night. Although not so quickly as has often been supposed, Harris became fanatically convinced that area bombing was the way to win the war. He became a bitter critic of what he acidly called "panacea" bombing, attacking a specific target system to deny the Germans a critical item, like oil or ball bearings. He claimed there were no "bottlenecks" or vital spots in the Germans' war effort, but that they could not get around his destroying whole cities. Unlike other advocates of area bombing, he had no great faith in smashing morale, although he oc- casionally stressed this for tactical purposes. Rather, he envisioned the slow  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 38 The Reform of Bomber Command crumbling of the enemy's whole economy. In justifying Bomber Command's operations for Churchill in June 1942, he stressed the damage area bombing had done and would do to industry, not what it would do to German morale.2 In some of these views Harris was alone. The Ministry of Economic Warfare and many in the Air Ministry never doubted that there were bottlenecks in the enemy economy, even if they were not immediately vulnerable. Indeed, the notion, im- plicit in Harris's view, that no part of t