t could not last long without the Ruhr. As the Allies knew, the Ruhr particularly depended on inland waterways, especially the Dortmund-Ems and Mittelland canals. The Dortmund-Ems Canal connected the Rhine, the Ruhr, and the Ems river, while the Mittelland carried traffic from the Ruhr to the Elbe, and via the Rothensee ship lift, east to Berlin.  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 164 Allied analysts picked the spot where the Dortmund-Ems Canal crossed the Glane river near Ladbergen as a vulnerable point. They also singled out the points where the Mittelland Canal crossed the Aa river, at Gravenhorst, and the Weser river, near Minden, as good targets. At Minden an aqueduct carried the Mittelland over the Weser. At the other points the canals were raised above the surrounding countryside to let the Glane and the Aa flow under them through concrete tunnels. If the canal embankments were blown down, the water would spill out, halting navigation. The Strategic Bombing Survey later concluded that these had not been the best possible targets. Relatively small attacks, dropping 500 tons or more of 2,000-pound (or larger) bombs on each of just four targets-the Münster locks in the Dortmund-Ems Canal, the Datteln locks in the Wesel-Datteln Canal. the Rothensee ship lift, and any bridge over the Rhine-would have paralyzed Germany's inland water transport system longer and more cheaply than the attacks that were made on the points the Allies chose. But the locks and the ship lift were never attacked. Rail traffic out of the Ruhr depended on several critical marshalling yards, at Hamm (the biggest yard in Germany), Soest, Geisecke, Hagen-Vorhalle, Wedau. Hohenbudberg, and Münster. The movement of trains to and from the Ruhr depended on eighteen bridges and viaducts, of which two were most likely par- ticularly critical: the Bielefeld Viaduct, on the line from Hamm to Hannover, and the Altenbecken Viaduct (near Paderborn), on the line from Soest to Hildesheim. Not all of the vuln