ly hindered work on coastal defenses by causing the Germans to withdraw laborers from them. Although merely diverting efforts from other fronts and operations may seem a minor result-and it was not one much desired by the airmen or one they pointed to with pride-this was not so. It is worth noting that the Italian cam- paign was nothing more than a diversionary operation, to tie down German forces and keep them away from the decisive fronts in Russia and France when the Western powers could not have attacked the enemy elsewhere. The defen- sive effort forced on the Germans would have justified strategic bombing even if it never accomplished a more positive aim. It is hard to see how any other use of Allied resources could have similarly affected the enemy in the same time period. This was not the only effect on the Germans of the bombing. In 1943 and early 1944 the Allies could not seriously interrupt the production of existing German weapons, but they did delay new ones, notably the V-weapons and new types of aircraft. And although German armaments production grew, the bombings diminished that growth somewhat, possibly depressing it in 1943 by 9 percent and in 1944 by 17 percent below the level it would otherwise have reached. Finally, in the winter and spring of 1944 the air offensive won control of the air over Europe and paved the way for the Normandy invasion. It should be noted that all these achievements, except for the last, were chiefly due to RAF rather than to American efforts. During this period, however, the strategic air forces did not accomplish their explicit assigned aims, as set out in the Casablanca and combined bomber of- fensive directives. They made no important contribution to the winning of the Battle of the Atlantic and did not seriously impair German morale, reduce overall German war production, or stop the manufacture of any critical items. The ball  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 194 Conclusions bearings campaign, and to a lesser extent