d helped to develop new methods, which ultimately made precision bombing at night a regular possibility. The British had long known that a system of dams supplied water vital to the Ruhr industries. When the Western air plans were drawn up in 1937, it had been noted that destroying the most important dams, the Möhne and the Sorpe, would be a cheaper way to wreck the Ruhr than a massive attack on the in- dustrial installations themselves. Hankey also suggested that destroying the near- by Eder Dam, while it would not affect the water supply of the Ruhr, might hinder traffic on inland waterways. Bomber Command was initially unen- thusiastic, for destroying such massive structures would not be easy. The task was complicated by the fact that the two critical dams were of different types. The Möhne was an arched gravity-type masonry dam, while the Sorpe was an earth dam with a watertight reinforced concrete core. The weapons and tactics suited for one dam might not work against the other. Attention settled early on the Möhne, as the easier target. Attacking the water side of the dam with  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 54 Area Bombing & the Defeat of Bomber Command conventional bombs, torpedoes, or mines was considered as late as 1940, but these were probably not powerful enough to break the dam even in the unlikely ordinary torpedo attack. event they hit it. After the war started, the Germans laid protective nets against More exotic devices were considered. Serious work began on a radio-controlled drone plane, but the fall of France made the target too distant from friendly bases and the project was dropped. Rocket-assisted bombs, glider weapons, and a "hydroplane skimmer torpedo" were all studied; an attempt was made to build the last weapon in 1940-1941. None of these devices proved satisfactory. Com bined Operations and the Special Operations Executive independently proposed destroying the Möhne by sabotage operations; paratroops, or commandos landed by flying boat