rman fighters reacted strongly, but all the bomber forces together lost only 21 planes (5 more were written off), while the escort claimed the destruction of 61 German fighters, for the loss of only 4 American fighters Another Me-110 unit was massacred, as 18 of 24 planes were shot down. That night the RAF joined the assault with a selective area attack on Stuttgart,of the sort Bottomley had sought for so long. On February 21 the Eighth launched another all-out effort (weather kept the Fifteenth on the ground again) against six Luftwaffe installations and two plante at Brunswick producing parts for Me-110s. Cloud forced the Eighth to bomb Brunswick on radar, and the factories were not hit; 16 bombers went down and another 7 were written off, while American fighters claimed 33 German fighter for 5 of their own lost. But the prospects for visual bombing over the next few days looked good and the operation went on. It was decided to strike Schweinfurt and aircraft plants in the central area, and the Fifteenth would finally join in by attacking Regensburg. It operated without escort. Yet again, the weather interfered with the Eighth's operations. Only the 1st Division hit some of its primary targets, damaging two plants building Junkers 88s. This third day's mission proved costly. The Germans struck the American force before it was deep in Germany, in an area where the escort was thin, destrov ing 41 bombers of the Eighth and 14 more of the Fifteenth. The Eighth's escort fighters again claimed a lopsided 59 Germans for the loss of 11 American fighters Bad weather gave the Eighth Air Force a break on February 23, while the Fif teenth made a small attack on a ball bearings plant at Steyr, in Austria. On February 24, after four months, the B-17s returned to Schweinfurt, as B-246 struck an Me-110 plant at Gotha. It was hoped that these attacks, and one by the Fifteenth Air Force on Steyr, would attract the enemy fighters and let five wings hit the targets in northeast Germa