rmulated in 1943, had assumed that enemy transportation would be attacked through simple "interdiction." Allied planes would cut the railroad lines and destroy the bridges leading to the battle area just before the invasion. But crucial figures doubted that this would be enough. In December 1943 Solomon Zuckerman, who had been Air Marshal Tedder's scientific adviser when Tedder commanded Eisenhower's air forces in the Mediterranean, had analyzed attacks on the enemy railroad system in Sicily and Italy. He concluded that bridge busting and line cuts would be costly in bombs and not a reliable means of interrupting transport. Instead, attacks should be aimed at marshalling yards and repair depots, bigger targets, where every bomb was likely to do damage. Rolling stock and locomotives, as well as vital yard space and facilities, would be wrecked, delaying movements and preventing recovery. After returning to Britain Zuckerman had become an assistant to Leigh- Mallory. They and Tedder supported the Transportation Plan, calling for attacks on railroad centers in France and Belgium-estimates of how many would range from 33 to 101. It would have to start 90 days before the invasion and would require massive tonnages of bombs, estimated at 45,000 tons, much of which would have to be delivered by the heavy bombers. (The bridge busting and line cutting would also be done, largely by the tactical forces' fighter-bombers and light and medium bombers.) Just before the invasion, lines leading to Normandy would also be hit. Leigh-Mallory's staff estimated that the Germans used as much as two-thirds of Western Europe's railroad capacity for military traffic, so attacks on rail centers should quickly hurt them. This plan did not command universal admiration. Even before it was formally proposed, Harris predictably argued that it was wrong to divert Bomber Com- mand from the task of smashing German cities and give the Germans a breathing  130 The Strategic Bombing of Germany Strategi