three mis- sions were completed in October, and none at all between October 21 and November 7. When they did fly the crews froze; ice even threatened to choke their inadequate oxygen masks. In terms of losses, the Eighth's initial opera- tions seemed encouraging. Even British observers, who discounted the wild claims of enemy fighters shot down, were impressed by the fact that even when the Germans got at the B-17s the latter survived. But the first missions were mis- leading. Most were escorted by fighters and aided by successful diversions. The German command was not yet worried about the Americans and had not yet reinforced the day fighter force in the West. German pilots who had encountered the B-17 were more impressed. Bombers were usually easy targets, but the B-17 (and the B-24) were different. When the Germans attacked from the rear, the normal approach to a bomber formation, they met a terrifying volume of fire. The Fortress had been well designed to 81 counter such attacks and was rugged beyond their experience; it took an average of 20-25 hits with 20 mm. shells to bring one down. The Germans realized that their fighters were not well armed for shooting down B-17s, which called for a different type of armament than that best for fighter-versus-fighter combat. This posed a dilemma that was to be increasingly serious. A fighter weighed down by the heavy, slow-firing cannon best suited for destroying bombers was at a disadvantage against Allied fighters. This had particularly serious results for the Me-109s, which formed most of the German fighter force. Certain peculiarities of its design had made arming the Me-109 a tricky problem all along. Adding more and heavier guns required bulges and gondolas that hurt its per- formance. In 1942, however, this problem was not yet acute. Unfortunately, the Germans were not stumped about how to attack the B-17 for long. Oberleutnant Egon Mayer, a fighter group commander, realized that it was vulnerable to attack from t