ed planning apparatus. But he avoided the bureaucratic excesses of most "planned" economies and did not suppose that he could control everything that went on in a complex in- dustrial economy. Instead, most decision making devolved to the committees or "rings" dominating each industry. Central planning operated to set priorities, and as a board of appeal. Speer and his assistants cut through red tape and en- couraged rationalization, standardization, and the application of the latest mass production methods, in which German industry had been somewhat backward. The price of this was inadequate statistics, and Speer did not always gear pro- duction efforts to the real needs of the war effort or even to other items being produced. But by the end of 1943 he had increased the overall production of weapons and equipment by about 50 percent over the level when he had taken over. This figure was higher in some crucial sectors; tank production rose from 600 per month in late 1942 to 1,250 a month a year later.6 Allied air attacks, especially those of the British, had begun to have an effect, but only in certain sectors, and repair work had been quick. The Germans got around any shortages. Ruhr steel production was cut about 8 percent, but the stocks of steel in the hands of producers tided them over. The areas attacked largely recovered. The Allies had struck serious blows at individual industries, however. The American attacks on fighter plants in the summer of 1943 had cut production by 25 percent and forced a limited amount of dispersal, which cost more pro- duction than the bombings themselves. The dispersal made the industry more vulnerable when the German transportation system was attacked in 1944. But the fighter force was nevertheless able to replace its losses and even expand. Bombing, primarily during the Battle of Hamburg, cost the Germans about 30 U-boats in 1943, but these losses came almost entirely after the Battle of the Atlantic had already been decided at s