ckup power systems for the turrets, and replacement of some turret- mounted .50s with 20 mm. cannon-perhaps an early sign of doubt that the B-17, in its existing form, was really the self-defending bomber it was supposed to be. 13 The Eighth mounted its first big mission on October 9. It sent 108 B-17s and B-24s against a steel plant and locomotive works at Lille (the most important target of this type in France next to the Schneider works), while seven other B-17s flew a diversion. The German interceptors were determined, and the bombing was inaccurate; many civilians were hurt. Four bombers were lost and many damaged. The claims of enemy planes shot down were fantastic. At first it was thought that 56 German fighters (nearly a fourth of all those in Western Europe) had gone down. The British authorities were openly skeptical, receiv- ing the claims with ridicule and even anger. They doubted that that many planes had been in the air. In January 1943 the claims were revised down to 21 destroyed, but in reality, 11 German fighters, at most, had gone down. Gunnery claims were finally tested against a rigorous system. Enemy planes were counted destroyed only if seen to crash, explode, or fall totally wrapped  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 80 The Americans & the Eighth Air Force in flames or if a whole wing or tail had been shot off, or if the pilot had been seen to bail out. To be considered "damaged," a plane would have had to be seen to have parts shot off or be actually on fire. (American observers at first often assumed that German planes that left trails of smoke had been damaged not realizing that German engines were apt to smoke even when not malfunc- tioning.) In between, a slippery category of "probable" included those enemy planes that seemed too badly shot up to return to base. Even this system. however, fell down, because there were usually many gunners firing at the same plane and then submitting claims for it destruction. And "destroyed" planes sometim