German morale, reduce overall German war production, or stop the manufacture of any critical items. The ball  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 194 Conclusions bearings campaign, and to a lesser extent the attack on aircraft plants, failed. The Allies were foiled by the fact that German morale, and the German economy, were quite different from what they, and particularly the proponents of the area offensive, imagined; by the RAF's related failure to use its growing capability for precision attack; by poor target selection on the part of the Americans; and by the Eighth Air Force's lack of long-range escort. Nevertheless, even in 1943 the Allies came close to doing decisive damage in at least one in- stance, which was the attack on the Ruhr dams. As we shall see later in this chapter, they may have narrowly missed other opportunities to do crippling damage to Germany in that year, but it was lack of knowledge, rather than the inherent limitations of the available air power, that was responsible. From the spring of 1944, however, things were drastically different. The attack on oil crippled the Luftwaffe, and then the mobility of the German army, and it sharply reduced production of explosives, rubber, and other items dependent on the oil industry. If not for Harris's reluctance to commit his forces, the oil shortage would have taken effect even faster. The transportation attack then wrecked the whole economy, while slowing and disrupting troop movements. The fighting from the fall of 1944 onward would have been very different without the oil and transportation offensives. The Strategic Bombing Survey later con- cluded that even had the Allied armies never crossed the Rhine or the Oder, armaments production would have come to a "virtual standstill by May (1945); the German armies, completely bereft of ammunition and motive power, would almost certainly have had to cease fighting by June or July."8 It should be noted that even in these offensives the effect of strategic