ve shut it permanently.  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 90 The Abortive Offensive There were probably just three other synthetic rubber plants in Germany. . small pilot plant at Leverkusen and two other large plants, one at Ludwigshafen further up the Rhine, and the other at Schkopau, which unfortunately was fo" to the east. An attack on Schkopau, which produced 30 percent of Germany's synthetic rubber, would require a flight far beyond fighter range. But there was no attack on Schkopau, or even a followup on Hüls, because rubber was not rated as all that important a target. Even the Hüls attack had involved a costly penetration beyond fighter range. The attacking force had lost 16 Fortresses (one a YB-40), nearly 10 percent of its strength, while a diversionary attack on Apt- werp had cost another 4 planes, plus another scrapped after return to England The bombers had claimed 47 German planes, while the fighters escorting the Ant- werp force claimed 7.1 More flights beyond fighter range, to Hüls and similar targets, lacking the element of surprise, could be expected to be more costly. THE ESCORT PROBLEM Eaker had worried for some time about the cost of going beyond fighter range He had ceased to be an enthusiast for the self-defending bomber idea. As he had suspected, the YB-40 did not help. Its proponents had not thought the prob- lem through. Despite their firepower and protection, YB-40s were no match for enemy fighters, and once the standard B-17s dropped their bombs, the heavier YB-40s, laden with more guns and armor, could not keep up with them. The real answer was to extend the range of the fighters. A full solution would require a new fighter; the P-47s range was inherently limited. But it could be improved by something any escort fighter would need: effective drop-tanks. Ef. forts toward getting them, however, were slow. As noted earlier, the Ministry of Aircraft Production was at first unresponsive, but it eventually proved far more helpful than did the