nutes. Behind them, 22 heavy bombers of the Pathfinder Force dropped green marker bombs, at in- tervals of a minute or two, aimed at the red markers. To help with navigation  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 52 Area Bombing & the Defeat of Bomber Command they dropped yellow markers on the way to the target. Three waves of the main force followed, with orders to aim at the red markers if they could see them and the green markers if they could not. Of the 442 bombers dispatched, 61 (including 3 of the 8 precious Oboe Mosquitos) aborted the mission or could not attack the primary target, while 14 bombers went down. Of those that at tacked Essen, 153 bombed within three miles of the aiming point. The Krupp works and the city, hit by 1,000 tons of bombs, were heavily damaged; 160 acre of built-up area was completely destroyed, and three-quarters of the buildings in another 450 acres were destroyed or damaged. These were remarkable result against the toughest target in Germany.4 It soon became apparent, however, that such results could not be expected beyond Oboe range. On March 8-9, Bomber Command sent 335 planes against Nuremberg, planning to use H2S and the Newhaven technique. But visibility was bad, and some Pathfinders had to drop their marker bombs on H2S. Som H2S sets failed. Both the markers and the bombing were scattered. While con siderable damage was done to the suburbs and some factories, this was a lucky accident. The Ruhr and Rhineland cities suffered greatly; on March 12 Essen was blasted even more heavily than a week earlier. But even within Oboe range, weather mistakes, and bad luck sometimes nullified even the best efforts. Duisburg, the target of more sorties than any other city during the battle, survived four big attacks well but was terribly damaged by a fifth and final blow. The loss of life in the Ruhr and Rhineland, was far greater than from any earlier air attack of the European war. Two attacks on Barmen-Wuppertal in late May and June killed 5,2