rces. He and others considered this a sort of demotion, but it is now known that Eaker's transfer was instigated by Eisenhower. He had nothing against Eaker, but preferred the air commanders who had served him well in the Mediterranean. They continued to serve him well in 1944 and 1945. The Americans pressed for the revision of the directive of June 1943, against weakening British resistance. In mid-February the Combined Chiefs of Staff issued a new directive governing the strategic air forces. Their overall mission remained the "progressive destruction and dislocation of German military, industrial, and economic system, the disruption of vital elements of lines of com- munication, and material reduction of German air combat strength by successful prosecution of Combined Bomber offensive from all convenient bases."9 There were no phrases about attacking enemy morale, the convenient loophole through which Harris had wriggled before. The primary objective was the German air force; attacks on fighter and ball bearings production shared an equal first priority. Second priority, under this objective, went to "installations suppor- ting the German fighter force."10 Attacks on V-weapons (Crossbow) had third priority, followed by attacks on Berlin and other industrial areas, when weather was unsuitable for operations against the primary objective. Allied forces in the Mediterranean would strike cities, transportation targets, and other objectives in Southeastern Europe, when conditions for operations against the German air force or in support of operations in Italy were impossible. (The Allies hoped to encourage the Axis satellites, especially Romania, to get out of the war.) Com- pared to the directive of June 1943, this proved short lived. The Combined Bomber Offensive had only a few weeks to run. Operations designed to directly prepare for Overlord would be needed.11  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 118 The Struggle for Air Superiority NEW POLICIES By January 1944 it wa