sportation 165 or another. The opponents dominated the newly-formed CSTC. The CSTC, and Spaatz, wanted an all-out concentration on oil and feared dilution of the oil effort. (Spaatz did not oppose attacking transportation, so long as oil's priority was absolutely clear.) After earlier disappointments, there was a general tendency to deprecate transportation as a target. Many doubted that the pre-invasion attacks on marshalling yards had been worthwhile, while some felt that transpor- tation was a proper target for the tactical air forces, but not for the heavy bombers. From the narrow standpoint of analysts interested solely in interrupting sup- plies and reinforcements to the German armies at the front, there might have been little to be said for bombing marshalling yards. Experience in France had already proven, although Tedder and Zuckerman continued to deny it, that such attacks were not too effective for that purpose. Only a fraction of the capacity of the dense rail network covering Western Europe and Germany was needed to move troops and supplies, not swiftly and efficiently, perhaps, but enough to maintain the minimal needs of a defending army. It was interdiction attacks that were responsible for the enemy's supply problems. The critics of the Transportation Plan had been right. But those who assumed that a similar program directed against Germany must be futile overlooked the fact that the attacks on French rail centers had paralyzed the French economy, a point that Zuckerman had quickly established. That had been tolerable for the Germans, since their ultimate base lay in their homeland, not in France. But if German rail traffic fell by two-thirds, or even less, that base would cease to be effective. Troops might still be moved, but weapons, ammunition, and supplies would no longer be made. Despite his numerous opponents, Tedder got his way. He cogently argued that enemy transportation was a "common denominator" on which the strategic and tactical air for