noted, such a combination of perfect weather and weak defenses seldom occurred over important targets in Germany. The attack was not typical of Bomber Command's capabilities.10 Gee, and the full-blown Shaker technique, were introduced in an attack on Essen March 8-9. But this, and seven subsequent attacks on Essen, failed. Despite flares and bright moonlight, the Nazis were defended by their own air pollution. Only one bomb in twenty fell within five miles of Essen! The Ruhr remained an im- penetrable fortress for another year. Over other targets the new technique worked better; an attack on Cologne March 13-14 proved quite successful and destroyed an important rubber plant. On March 28 Harris, perhaps to provide a spectacular if not too important success, attacked the Baltic coastal city of Lübeck. Although beyond Gee range, it was easy to find, lightly defended, and an ideal target for fire bombing. Its center was of medieval wooden construction. Part of the force, however, was assigned a precision target-a machine-tool plant. There was a full moon and fine weather. Of 234 planes sent out, 191 attacked, dropping over 400 tons of bombs. Many planes went as low as 2,000 feet, and in spite of the weak defenses, losses were heavy. The old town was destroyed, with 190 acres of buildings burned out, along with some moderately important factories, and 312 people were killed. A series of four similar attacks was launched against another Baltic port, Rostock, starting on April 23. Again, destructive area attacks were combined with preci- sion attacks, on the Heinkel aircraft plant in the suburbs; the Heinkel plant was only hit on the third attack. The Lübeck and Rostock attacks upset the Nazi leaders for the first time in the war, although production in the two cities recovered quickly. The limitations of the techniques in use became clear. A series of attempted precision attacks by small forces on more French factories failed more often than not, while a mixed attack on S