hat it consumed up to one-third of Britain's industrial effort. The AAF itself estimated that the American air offensive cost $27.5 billion, about 11 percent of the total cost of the war. Disregarding for the moment its effects on the German war effort, the bomber offensive killed many enemy civilians. Approximately 593,000 Germans died from air attacks, mostly the British area attacks. Although outside of Britain and Ger- many this toll seems to have attracted less obloquy than the far smaller number of Japanese civilians killed by American atomic bombs, it accounts for much of the distaste with which the strategic bombing campaign was recalled after the war. The story of that campaign is a bit different in some ways from that generally accepted, and this is particularly true of the British side of things. The RAF's shift to area bombing was more gradual, and more reluctant, than is generally supposed. The adoption of area attack, or more exactly, the recognition that it was all that Bomber Command was really capable of, took place in 1941. But it did not become an inflexible commitment until later. The directives under which Bomber Command operated in 1942 and 1943 assumed, at least implicitly, that precision bombing would be a better bet, that the RAF should switch over to it when possible, and that "selective area attacks" designed to undermine par- ticular industries should be undertaken. Originally, Sir Arthur Harris was not a fanatical advocate of area attack. His attempts to use heavy bombers in daylight operations, and the numerous mixed precision and area attacks tried in 1942. suggest that it was only late in that year that he became obsessed with the no- tion, which he never really gave up, that general area attack was the only way to win the war. The problem of area bombing, indeed night bombing in general, is easily misunderstood. The difference between precision and area bombing was not a sharp distinction, but one between varying shades in a spectrum