sion of early 1945, the British reconsidered Thunderclap. Ironically, it was revived by Commodore Bufton and Air Marshal Bottomley, who were usually in favor of precision or selective attacks. The  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 178 Decisive Offensives II: Transportation success of the Soviet offensive led Bufton to propose a heavy attack on Berlin as the Soviets drove west, supplemented by Fifteenth Air Force attacks on Breslau and Munich. The British Joint Intelligence Committee was skeptical of the morale effect of such attacks, but suggested that they might help the Soviet advance by hampering the movement of refugees from eastern Germany and inspiring flight from Berlin itself, disrupting German troop movements and the military and administrative machinery in the capital. Harris suggested supplementary operations against Chemnitz, Leipzig, and Dresden, all of which, of course, he had wanted to attack all along. Portal doubted that a Thunderclap-type opera- tion against Berlin, expected to take four days and nights, would be decisive. but thought that big attacks on Berlin, Dresden, Leipzig, and Chemnitz, and perhaps other cities, were desirable to confuse evacuation and troop movements. Churchill liked the idea. In late January the British rejected a full-blown Thunderclap but decided to launch one big attack on Berlin and related attacks on Dresden, Leipzig, and Chemnitz-subject to overriding priorities, like attacks on oil. On January 31 Bottomley and Spaatz agreed to launch attacks on Berlin. Leipzig, and Dresden, and "associated cities where heavy attack will cause great confusion in civilian evacuation from the east and hamper movement of rein forcements from other fronts."13 "13 The phase of the moon and the weather delayed Bomber Command's execution of this plan. On February 3, 937 Fortresses from the 1st and 3rd Air Divisions, as the Bom- bardment Divisions were now called, bombed Berlin, aiming at marshaling yards major railroad stations, and the gov