ere furious. At the Air Ministry's suggestion, Churchill ordered Bomber Command to Berlin. The British had refrained from attacking the Ger- man capital until then; it contained few targets of high priority under recent directives, and on the shortest nights it had been out of reach. On the night of August 25-26 Bomber Command sent 81 bombers to strike industrial objec- tives in Berlin. Clouds interfered with the bombing, which as usual was inac- curate. More attacks followed, killing a few civilians. On August 30 Hitler decided to retaliate on London. In this he was following the advice of many Luftwaffe generals, who had long believed that an attack on London would force a decisive air battle under conditions that would favor the Luftwaffe. This was a miscalculation. The attacks on London, which began on September 7, lifted the pressure from Fighter Command's airfields in southeast England, and the RAF did well in the fighting over London. The decision to make London a target, however hard for the Londoners, gave Fighter Com- mand a welcome respite. It is doubtful that this decided the Battle of Britain, as was once widely believed. But the attacks on Berlin, along with Bomber Com- mand's attacks on the invasion fleet, certainly were to Britain's advantages. THE BLITZ AND THE ELECTRONIC WAR By the end of September the Germans had "indefinitely postponed" the inva- sion of Britain. Except for some minor operations, heavy losses had brought 27 daylight bombing to an end.3 The Germans switched to night bombing, try- ing to demoralize the British people by bombing their cities. The history of the "Blitz" of 1940-1941 is not, strictly speaking, part of our story, but it influenced or paralleled British efforts against Germany. British defenses against night attack were weak, and Britain was an easier target for German bombers than Germany was for Bomber Command. The Germans were based close to their objectives; British cities are near the coast and were easily found. S