st favorable conditions. Its new tactics reversed the process of concentration that had been underway since 1941. Instead of concentrating in a single massive bomber stream several forces attacked different targets. (The practice of splitting the bombers among several targets would have been forced in any case by the need to strike many targets in France, targets that required only relatively small forces.) The Germans could not get at the whole of Bomber Command at once, although they could inflict heavy losses on part of it, as they tended to do once the new tactics were understood. A real answer to the night fighter was still in the future. Harris secured three more fighter squadrons for 100 Group's covering operations, but this was not enough to counter the Luftwaffe. An improved version of the Mandrel radar jammer was ready, but was held back for use on D-Day. Bomber Command mostly hit French targets; in the period of April-June 1944 only 17 percent of its bombs fell on Germany. Even so, it sometimes suffered heavily. In May the Luftwaffe pushed night fighters forward into France. On the night of May 3-4 the Germans downed 42 of 362 bombers sent to Mailly-le-Camp, and on May 10-11, 12 bombers of 89 attacking Lille were lost.7 IMPLEMENTING THE TRANSPORTATION PLAN Bomber Command delivered 46,000 of the 71,000 tons of bombs dropped on rail centers. The Eighth Air Force hit some French marshalling yards in late April; on May 1 it finally joined the railroad campaign on a full scale, dropping 13,000 tons of bombs. The heavies were assisted by dive-bombing P-47s. By D-Day, 51 of the 80 rail centers on the final target list were believed useless. However, there were already substantial doubts that the rail center bombings were the main cause of the paralysis of the enemy's supply system. Spaatz's in- sistence that bridge busting and line cutting by smaller planes would be more effective than bombing railroad yards represented a genuine conviction, not just a way to de