ld consist of three groups. The Eighth Air Force received much new equip- ment. It began getting the new B-17G, the ultimate Flying Fortress. Most im- portant of its many improvements was a remote-controlled "chin" turret under the nose, to deal with head-on attacks. (Chin turrets were also installed on B-17Fs that were used as "lead ships.") The B-17G's waist positions were staggered and enclosed with Plexiglas panels, making life easier for the waist gunners, who al too often had been freezing and without room to work. Later B-17Gs had Cheyenne tail turret, powered and with better sights. But few, if any, now thought that any improvement would enable the bombers to defend themselves. In August and September the Eighth received fighter reinforcements. Drop- tanks, though too few were available, were extending the fighter's range. But 103 escort was still limited to northwestern Germany. Two of the five new fighter groups had P-38H fighters whose range theoretically allowed escort out to 450 miles, but they lacked enough planes, and equipment problems meant that the 55th Group did not become operational until October 15. The 20th Group was not ready until the end of 1943! It was already suspected that the P-38, due to its lack of acceleration and other problems not yet fully known, was not really the solution to the escort problem. The Eighth found a partial solution to another problem, bad weather, which often prevented successful visual attacks on Germany and did so in all of September. Experiments with bombing on Gee had not worked; the Americans borrowed H2S equipment from the British while developing their own version, H2X. A pathfinder group was formed to use both systems; its bombers would lead other formations. On September 27 the American pathfinders led their first operation against Emden; this was also the first mission to a German target that was escorted all the way. The target area was an important port, giving a good H2S picture. Two forces, comprisin