city. One plan, Thunderclap, had surfaced in July. It envisaged a series of attacks on Berlin, designed to shock, not German civilians, but the high command into seeing that Germany was finished. After much argu- ment, Thunderclap was ordered on September 9. But it turned out that there were not enough fighters to cover it, and a reaction against the whole idea set in within Eisenhower's headquarters and the American Joint Chiefs of Staff. The plan was set aside. As their willingness to consider Thunderclap suggests, the Americans did not always inflexibly oppose area attacks, or bombing aimed to undermine civilian morale, or even operations specifically aimed at killing civilians outright. The Eighth Air Force had explicitly aimed at killing civilians, albeit specialized sorts of workers, at Münster and (as a second choice) at Schweinfurt. Some opera- tions, such as the first attack on Berlin, had been designed at least partly to strike at enemy morale. Some attacks on the Balkan satellite capitals, while aimed at marshalling yards in those cities, were also designed to frighten Romanians and Bulgarians and turn them against their rulers. The radar bombing of German targets that had begun in late 1943 often amounted to de facto area bombing. General Arnold, and some other officers, sometimes considered outright area bombing. In the B-29 campaign against Japan, the AAF turned to deliberate area attacks against cities after attempted precision bombing attacks failed to achieve results. While some American officers strongly disapproved of area attacks on ethical grounds, most of the air generals, like Spaatz, thought that the main reason for opposing them was that they were just not effective, although Eaker, . at least, regarded them with distaste. In the gloom and confusion of early 1945, the British reconsidered Thunderclap. Ironically, it was revived by Commodore Bufton and Air Marshal Bottomley, who were usually in favor of precision or selective attacks. The  Th