out or caught fire. Still, there were few losses. Bomber Command hastened to provide de-icers and heaters, but the problem of finding and hitting the target remained. Prewar tests of Bomber Command's navigation at night had not been encouraging, but little had been done about it. Early in the war, navigational equipment consisted only of maps, sextants, and radio direction finders. The latter required considerable skill, and the radio was often jammed. The navigators were not well trained and the planes were not stable; taking star sight (when weather allowed) was not easy. Seeing a target, if someone got there, depended heavily on moonlight. In October 1939, Air Commodore Arthur Coningham, 4 Groups's commander, estimated that on clear nights with more than a quarter moon, individual buildings could be distinguished at heights up to 3,000 or 4,000 feet. Small towns could be seen from 4,000 to 6,000 feet, and small rivers were visible up to 6,000 to 8,000 feet. Only coastal points, major rivers, and canals could be seen from over 12,000 feet. On moonless nights only a coastline or something self-illuminating, like a blast furnace, was visible. Unfortunately, below 10,000 feet, bombers flying in a defended area were highly vulnerable to flak, and crewmen were apt to be blinded by searchlights, so even Coningham's estimate should have shown that the force could not be relied on to hit specific targets at night. (The fact that they could be seen below 4,000 feet might have suggested that a few planes, coming in low, could find and mark a target for a main force flying far higher. But it was years before this possibility was seen and acted on.) Nevertheless, Coningham and others believed that targets like synthetic oil plants or factories could be found and hit by making a timed run from some readily identifiable point. Experiments with this technique in January 1940 were not encouraging, but it was decided that conditions had been unusually unfavorable. In December Ludl