S As far back as late 1943 the strategic air forces had become involved in a cost- ly struggle related to the task of preparing for the invasion: the struggle against the V-weapons. The Nazis had persisted with plans to launch an area offensive of their own with wildly inaccurate-and in the case of the V-2, costly-missiles As early as May 1943 the Allies had observed the construction of the first of seven "large sites" in the Calais and Cotentin areas related to secret weapons Six of these huge concrete structures were intended to store V-1 and V-2 missiles and to act as launching sites for the latter. A seventh, at Mimoyecques (Calais), was to house a third V-weapon that was a superartillery piece, a "high-pressure pump gun." It was designed to fire a special finned projectile, boosted by a series of charges detonated in a very long barrel. This was potentially far more dangerous to London than the V-1 or V-2, but it is uncertain whether the Nazis could have gotten it working properly in time for use in the war. The Allies promptly attacked the large sites, and in November they spotted the first of 96 "ski sites." Some correctly suspected that these were ramps for launching V-1s, but the extent of the threat was hard to gauge. Some feared 137 that the rocket's warhead might be as big as ten tons. Nor could the Allies be sure that the missiles would be merely area-bombardment weapons. And while the V-2 was hopelessly inaccurate, the V-1 could conceivably have been fitted with a radio-control system and used against precision targets-in fact the Nazi Air Ministry had planned this at an early date, only to drop the idea when higher authority wanted just revenge attacks on London. Some among the Allies regarded the construction sites in France as a decoy to draw the Allied air effort from important targets. Others feared that they were designed to house even deadlier things; poison gas or biological weapons were among the least fantastic guesses. The Eighth Air Force a