ill greater antiaircraft defenses for Schwein furt, and he took steps to increase production elsewhere.7 BREATHING SPACE AND BUILDUP The Eighth attacked aircraft factories and air bases in France and the Low Countries and at Watten, in France, smashed a huge bunker designed to house V-2 rockets; the concrete was still wet, and it was wrecked beyond repair. Some of its operations were part of an elaborate but unsuccessful attempt to make the Germans think the Allies intended to land in France, provoking an air battle Bad weather delayed a return to Germany. On September 6, three weeks after the Regensburg-Schweinfurt mission, 338 B-17s set out for the SKF ball bearings plant at Stuttgart, while B-24s flew a diversion over the North Sea. Poorly planned and conducted, the mission failed Over France the force hit such heavy cloud that it should have turned back Only one wing saw the target; some units overshot, while others used up fuel circling and seeking a hole in the clouds, which inhibited bombing but not the German fighters. Between German attacks and lack of fuel, 45 went down and 10 were written off after landing. Of the B-17s that were lost, 12 managed to ditch, and Air Sea Rescue pulled 118 of their men out of the sea, which prevented a disaster not far short of the Regensburg-Schweinfurt mission. Some men were more shaken by the waste and bungling over Stuttgart than by the earlier and more famous battle.8 During September VIIIth Bomber Command was reorganized. The old 1st Bombardment Wing became the 1st Bombardment Division and the B-24 units became the 2nd Bombardment Division, while the old 4th Wing became the 3rd Bombardment Division. Each Fortress division was subdivided into three newly formed combat bomb wings, each of which, when enough units arrived, would consist of three groups. The Eighth Air Force received much new equip- ment. It began getting the new B-17G, the ultimate Flying Fortress. Most im- portant of its many improvements was a remote-con