20 percent of bombs hitting within 1,000 feet of the aiming point was considered good; by April 30, 40 percent was common. The Vegesack mission saw the introduction of bombing with the use of automatic flight-control equipment-the bombardier controlled the plane dur- ing the bomb run through the autopilot. In May the Americans reintroduced the use of incendiary bombs against industrial targets, something they had dis- continued after the fall of 1942. It was now realized that in some cases incen- diary bombs could do more damage than explosives. At the end of May, YB-40s finally arrived in England, 16 but they failed to provide the solution to the escort problem that was so badly needed. THE DEFENDERS Although the Luftwaffe was under continuous pressure, the German fighter force in the West grew, thanks to transfers from Russia and the Mediterranean. It was suffering heavy fighter losses, especially in the south. The fact that many fighters were tied down in the Mediterranean may have been the only thing permitting the Eighth Air Force to penetrate beyond escort range. During 1942 German aircraft production rose, thanks to rationalization of the use of labor and materials rather than increased priority. The industry was still controlled by Milch rather than by Speer. Even Milch did not see the desperate need for new fighters, while an all-out switch from bomber to fighter production was blocked by insistence on retaliation on the part of Hitler and  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 84 The Americans & the Eighth Air Force Goering. Still, by mid-1943 there would be 810 single-engine fighters and 478 twin-engine fighters (mostly night fighters) in Germany and the West. These defenders were ably led by Gen. Adolf Galland. Nominally just an inspector of fighters, Galland was actually more important than the commanders of Luftflotte Reich and Luftflotte 3. (The latter command controlled the defense of southern Germany as well as of occupied Western Europe.) Despite everyt