h. These tanks extended the P-47's radius to 340 miles. The British began supply- ing 108-gallon paper and metal tanks the next month; when properly used the British tanks eventually gave a radius of 375 miles. Using both "75"-gallon and 108-gallon tanks, the Eighth flew its first mission with escort all the way to a German target on September 27. To cover the bombers, the fighters had to maintain a high speed, costly in fuel, while weaving back and forth so as not to get ahead of their charges. The escort task was normally accomplished in relays. Some fighter units accompanied the bombers on the first part of their journey, then turned back, while more units rendezvoused at a prearranged point, to cover the rest of the mission to the limit of their range. The planning of the rendezvous points was aided by the British radio-intercept service; its "eavesdropping" on the German fighter pilots told the Americans where the Germans themselves were assembling to attack. Eaker had repeatedly stressed the need for drop-tanks and escort fighters, but all-out action on these was not taken until after Assistant Secretary of War Robert Lovett returned to the United States from a visit to Britain in June 1943. He stressed the need for more replacement crews, more forward-firing guns on B-17s, and better training in gunnery and formation flying. P-38s and P-51s would be needed for escort. Work on an improved version of the P-51 had been under- way for some time, but only now was it given priority. Much of what happened in the latter half of 1943, would be determined by the availability, or rather the lack of, drop-tanks and long-range fighters. The range limitation was all the more agonizing because American and RAF fighter pilots were well able to handle their German counterparts. After initial reverses the Americans learned how to use the Thunderbolt's good characteristics and to avoid situations in which its relatively poor rate of climb and acceleration put it at a disadvanta