hat it would face in the 1940s. Preparation for a major air war, such as it was, was dominated by Trenchard's ideas. He insured that the RAF would be overwhelmingly bomber oriented, even though its bombers were unsuited to a major war with an advanced industrial country. The Staff College had wanted to have almost as many fighters as bombers, but at Trenchard's insistence the RAF maintained three bombers to every fighter. He and many other officers were sure that the bombers would get through any defense with or without fighter escort, although his Indepen- dent Air Force had needed fighter escort in 1918. Many believed that if they could not operate in the day, night bombing would be just as good. Some even deemed night bombing preferable, arguing that experience in the world war had shown that navigation and bomb aiming at night was little more difficult than during the day. Night bombers, less likely to be intercepted, could haul less defen- sive armament and more bombs. Unfortunately, this belief in the effectiveness of night attack rested on a misinterpretation of the evidence. Even though night attacks had been carried out in deceptively favorable conditions of good weather Origins, Prelude, Doctrine 7 and bright moonlight, and at low altitudes, all of which aided navigation over very short ranges, the attacks had not been accurate. Just what the bombers should try to accomplish in the event of a major war was not clear. During the 1920s Trenchard and others sometimes spoke of at- tacking an enemy civilian population to break its morale. In 1925 the Air Staff suggested that the morale effect of bombing would outweigh the material damage caused. On the whole, however, this did not represent the considered opinion of the RAF leaders. In 1928 Trenchard emphasized that indiscriminate bomb- ing to terrorize people was improper; bombers should attack production, transpor- tation, and communication facilities, the destruction of which would also have tremendous impac