g would still have a "catastrophic effect." But Churchill was content with Cherwell's arguments. He did not ex pect bombing to win the war by itself; it was only supposed to soften up the Germans. In practice he was willing to delay the growth of Bomber Command by transferring some units to Coastal Command and some to the Middle East During 1942 Bomber Command lost six squadrons to Coastal Command alone while another was "loaned" to it.5 Elements of Tizard's and Blackett's critiques were sound enough. They were right to insist that vital sea routes must be secured and that planes allotted to that duty would accomplish more in 1942 than they would by bombing Ger- many. Blackett was wrong only in thinking that defending the sea lanes would require more forces than was actually the case. As it turned out, only a few long-range planes were needed to turn the tide in the Battle of the Atlantic. A more basic problem was that the British were increasingly committed to the vague hope of breaking enemy morale, without a clear idea of what would hap- pen even if that were accomplished. Should the Germans turn out to be too stubborn, or the German defenses be improved radically, they would be in big trouble. The British were losing sight of the desirability of attacking the material basis of the enemy's war effort-the very thing Bomber Command had original- ly been built to do. ELECTRONIC GUIDANCE An important factor in confidence in Bomber Command's future lay in the new equipment it expected. Most important were a series of electronic aids to navigation and bombing: Gee, Oboe, and H2S. (The latter two did not come into service until the winter of 1942-1943, but it is convenient to describe them all at this point.) It cannot be too strongly emphasized that Bomber Command's effectiveness would depend on these three devices. Gee consisted of three ground stations in Britain and a receiver in the plane using it. A "master" station (A) controlled two widely separated "slave" stat