nsive would have been considerably different. The Germans would have been able to put much greater resources into air defense. Even in the short run, it is likely that the fighters released from the Eastern front would have sufficed to stop penetration by American bombers beyond escort range in the spring of 1943. In a somewhat longer length of time, the Germans would have been able to reinforce their night defenses to the point where British bomber losses would have been unaccep- table. Bomber Command, facing a considerably stronger German night defense, might never have regained the ability to attack well inside Germany at night. The whole burden of the strategic air offensive would have then fallen on the Eighth Air Force, at least for a time. (The British might eventually have shifted back to day bombing themselves.) The Americans would have been stymied for a time by their lack of long-range fighters, but would undoubtedly have gotten them after a while-perhaps, because the necessity would have been obvious, even faster than they did in the actual circumstances of 1943. Peace in the east would have let the Germans devote more of their resources to aircraft production, but the Western powers could also have committed more resources to the air war; the Allies would have outproduced the Germans in the end, much as they did. The Western powers would have gained air superiority, albeit after a longer and costlier struggle than the one that took place, and would have been able to strike decisive target systems. The target systems might have had to be different from the ones the Allies actually hit, for German access, by conquest or trade, to Soviet resources, and by the Trans-Siberian railroad to East Asia, would have drastically changed the economic picture. Access to Japanese supplies of rubber would have rendered synthetic rubber unimportant as a target, while the Baku oilfields alone pro- duced two and a half times as much oil as all of Axis Europe, so the oil pl