rs for quick and reliable communica- tions. The Lancaster's bomb bay doors and top turrets were taken off and a spinning mechanism was installed. No altimeter was precise enough for the job; finally the problem of keeping an exact height was solved by setting two spotlights on the underside of the planes. Their beams would intersect only when the bombers flew at 60 feet. It was originally hoped to use Highball against the Tirpitz and Upkeep on the dams at the same time, because countermeasures against this type of weapon would be simple once the enemy saw it in action. But Highball's tests did not go well, and its chances of success against the Tirpitz were not rated as particularly high. The Air Staff did not want to miss the moonlight period in May, when the water in the reservoirs would be highest, and it was decided that using Upkeep might not necessarily compromise Highball. On May 14 the chiefs of staff ap- proved an attack at the first possible date. The Air Staff had originally supposed that destroying the Möhne alone would cause a catastrophe in the Ruhr and that the Eder was nearly as important. But the Ministry of Economic Warfare explained that the destruction of both the Möhne and the Sorpe "would be worth more than twice the destruction of one" and that the Eder's destruction would not have a major impact. Sir Norman Bottomley urged attacking the Möhne and the Sorpe simultaneously; the Eder would be hit only if there were unexpended mines.7 Bomber Com- mand's operations order for what was called Operation Chastise stressed the Sorpe's importance, but somewhere down the line someone became confused, or decided that there was a greater chance of success against the Eder and that this overshadowed the Sorpe's importance. The final plan thus gave the Sorpe third priority, after Möhne and Eder. Three less important dams would be at- tacked if the first three were smashed. The attacking force was divided into three waves. The first wave of nine planes, led b