d make an ideal blitz bomber to deal with the coming invasion of France. His ideas were not totally unreasonable, but reflected overconfidence in the Luftwaffe's ability to defend Germany itself. And using the Me-262 to haul bombs threw away its unique feature-speed. The best use of the Me-262 was as an interceptor, to gain control of the air over Europe and cover attacks on the invasion fleet by conventional fighter-bombers. Astoundingly, despite his remarks, Messerschmitt had not designed bomb racks for the Me-262, although such racks were standard for propeller-driven fighters. Production was delayed by attacks on the Messerschmitt plants. But the main problem was with the engines; work on them was slow. Nickel and chromium, used in the alloys desirable for turbine blades, were short. In a noteworthy achievement, the Germans dispensed with nickel and used little chromium in the Jumo 004B-1. But they paid a heavy price; its normal life was just 25 hours between major overhauls, compared with 125 hours for the Meteor's engine, and it had many faults. It was not really ready when the design was frozen for production, and deliveries were few and slow. As a result, only 16 Me-262s  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 158 were delivered in April 1944, 7 in May; 28 in June; and 59 in July. Pilot train- ing, begun in April 1944, was rushed and limited. On May 23, 1944, Hitler learned that, against his orders, the ME-262 was being built solely as a fighter. He angrily ordered that it be produced only as a bomber, and insisted that all those already built be refitted as bombers. The modifications did not take long, but the bomber version of the Me-262 carried only two 550-pound bombs and only two 30 mm. guns. Inadequately armored against ground fire, with guns suited for attacking bombers rather than ground targets and a limited ammunition load, it was not much of a weapon. (By con- trast, most Allied fighters could carry bombloads of up to a ton, and some much more.) In spit