g incendiaries, were to bomb the center of Schweinfurt. That way they would hit housing and kill some skilled workers. The 1st Wing remained unlucky. After crossing the Dutch coast, it encountered a thick cloud layer. The commander of the 1st Air Task Force (the leading half of the wing) chose to go under it at 17,000 feet. This contributed to the failure of the 4th Fighter Group, one of the two groups that were to escort the force on the Antwerp-Eupen leg of the route, to rendezvous on time-it only joined the bombers just before it had to leave. The 78th Fighter Group, which managed to rendezvous, was overstretched. This cost at least one bomber; the Germans once again struck even before the Thunderbolts turned back. The decision to fly at 17,000 feet may have been unfortunate for other reasons. Flak was deadlier, and the German fighters, flying at their best altitude, were able to use the clouds as cover. They slammed repeatedly into the Americans, concentrating on the leading groups. Survivors of the Schweinfurt mission were unanimous in regard- ing it as their worst experience of the war, except possibly for those who also went on the second mission, two months later. The Germans once again had to let up as the bombers neared the target, but they had disrupted the Schweinfurt force more than they had the 4th Wing. The approach to the target had been altered at the last minute to allow for the changed position of the sun later in the day, and the attack was made from a less familiar angle. The bombing was inaccurate; the last four groups were unable to see the factories, but were so disorganized that they did not hit even the center of the city. After more fierce fighting the 1st Wing was met by the 56th Fighter Group east of Eupen. The fighter group had squeezed 15 extra miles of range out of the clumsy 200-gallon tanks, and it jumped the pursuing Germans. Three Thunderbolts went down with their pilots, but a dozen German fighters were shot down, probably saving