netration alarmed the crews at the briefings. Many gunners took along  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 100 The Abortive Offensive extra ammunition. This was a rare "maximum effort." Normally, bomber groups put up only three of their four squadrons at a time, letting one squadron rest (and insuring that a group could not be wiped out in one day.) For this mission all four squadrons went up; the "extra" ones formed special "composite groups " The plan promptly went awry. Low clouds hung over the American bases especially the 1st Wing's, on the morning of August 17. They promised to be short lived, but would make mass takeoffs and climbing to altitude dangerous The clouds posed a dilemma for the American commanders, who were under pressure to get on with the long-delayed mission. The Regensburg force had to leave early, so it could land in Africa while there was still daylight. Le May was ready to go. The clouds over his bases were not so bad, and he was rightly confident that his pilots were trained well enough to cope with them. Gen Frederick Anderson, the head of VIIIth Bomber Command, let Le May's wing take off after an hour and a half, while holding Gen. Robert Williams's 1st Wing which finally left three and a half hours after the 4th Wing. The Americans thus had the worst of it in two ways. The German fighters that intercepted the 4th Wing would have time to land, refuel, and get ready to meet Williams's planes But the Allied fighters that escorted the 4th Wing would not have enough time to return to base and reinforce the planes that would escort the 1st Wing on the initial stages of its journey. Le May took off with seven groups and 146 planes; several aborted before reaching the Netherlands. The Germans were eager, and struck even before the Thunderbolts of the 56th and 353rd fighter groups left the bombers at Eupen. in Belgium. Some 300 German fighters were ready for action, deployed in depth and there were constant attacks. Night fighters stalked behind to