t arrived, fires were already raging. A gigantic firestorm spread over eight square miles, with the same hideous results as in Hamburg in 1943. The last fires did not go out for a week. On February 14, while 294 Fortresses of the 3rd Division went to the Chemnitz marshalling yards and 340 B-24s struck those at Magdeburg, 311 B-17s of the 1st Division dropped 771 tons of bombs on Dresden. The Dresden force had intended to aim at marshalling yards too, but reports of clouds and smoke caused the force to use H2X and to alter the target to a railroad junction in the center of the city. The bombs missed it and hit residential areas instead. Some escort fighters strafed the banks of the Elbe, killing civilians. American bombs and bullets contributed little to the staggering catastrophe, but the Germans not unreasonably, if wrongly, concluded that the AAF was now fully joining in the British policy of area attack. On February 15 weather prevented the Eighth's 1st and 3rd divisions from going to their primary targets at Böhlen and Ruhland. While most of the 3rd Division struck marshalling yards at Cottbus, 210 B-17s of the 1st Division bombed the Dresden marshalling yards through cloud, using H2X. The yards were not damaged much. In fact, neither the RAF's nor the Eighth's attacks had much effect on rail operations at Dresden; they returned to normal in three days. The RAF had also carried out an area attack on Chemnitz, on February 14-15, repeating the tactic of a double blow. Two waves of bombers, totalling  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 180 Decisive Offensives II: Transportation 717 planes, struck the city, but the attack failed. The special series of attacks on eastern German cities came to an end, though the Eighth Air Force attacked the Dresden marshalling yards twice more before the war ended. The number of victims at Dresden was never accurately known. The city's population had been swollen by refugees, and those who dealt with the disaster had more to worry abou