ly a few weeks to run. Operations designed to directly prepare for Overlord would be needed.11  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 118 The Struggle for Air Superiority NEW POLICIES By January 1944 it was clear that the decisive battle for air supremacy would not be long delayed. Doolittle made important changes in policy, at least two of which were not calculated to make him popular with bomber crews. He ev tended their tours from 25 to 30 missions and agreed with General Kepner' recommendation to cut the fighters loose from the bombers. As a rule only third of each fighter group need stay near the heavies; the rest could attack and freely chase the enemy on sight. It proved a wise decision. Escort tactics were modified in other ways. Instead of joining the bombers at a predetermined point and flying along with them until relieved by another unit, each group would patrol an area through which the bombers passed. And once an escort grou finished its task, it could go down and strafe enemy targets, especially airfields Although strafing proved expensive-German light flak was very dangerous-it cost the enemy many planes at crucial moments and disrupted the German prac tice of landing after a first interception to refuel and rearm for a second sortie. 12 PREPARING FOR "BIG WEEK" As far back as November the Americans had planned a massive new attack on the German aircraft industry by both the Eighth and Fifteenth air forces The RAF agreed to join by launching area attacks on the cities in which the aircraft plants were located. The plan was expected to be costly and needed week of clear weather over Germany, as well as reasonable weather over England and Italy. But the weather over Germany remained miserable for almost all of the first seven weeks of 1944. Until late February the Eighth was able to carry out just two visual missions over Germany, and one of these was partly abor- tive and the other a lucky accident. The Fifteenth Air Force was tied down. hitting nearby tar