Material Command showed little interest. General Eaker, however, flew a Mustang in December 1941 and thought it a good plane despite its poor high-altitude performance. He commended it to Spaatz and Arnold. Arnold overruled the Air Material Command and ordered Mustangs procured for the AAF as P-51As. Some were later modified as reconnaissance planes and as A-36 dive-bombers. 113 As far as the AAF was concerned, the Mustang remained of secondary im- portance. When the need for a new long-range escort fighter became clear in 1942-1943, the Air Material Command concentrated on another plane, the General Motors P-75. Huge, and clumsy, it was composed of subassemblies used in other fighters, hastily slapped together. This made it easy to build, but fighter specialists deemed it hopelessly unstable and unmaneuverable. Some people wondered what the Mustang would be like with a better engine, like the Rolls Royce Merlin that powered the Spitfire. In May 1942 Rolls Royce itself obtained several Mustangs in which to try out the Merlin. Testing did not start until October and was not entirely satisfactory; and American pilot who tried the modified Mustang thought its directional stability poor. But British officials, including Churchill himself, urged the Americans to look into it, as did Thomas Hitchcock, the influential assistant military attaché of the U.S. Embassy in London. The Packard car company had been making Merlins in the United States since September 1941. North American's own engineers finally tested Packard Merlins in Mustangs in November 1942. They found that the engines overheated; the radiators had to be modified. As the need for longer range was stressed, more fuel tanks were added behind the pilot and in the wings. At first even the North American engineers doubted that the P-51 could take the added weight, but tests with tanks filled with water showed that it could. The AAF ordered 2,200 of the Merlin-powered P-51Bs, but Arnold did not give the Mustang all-