l attacks on German targets between October 14, 1943, and February 20, 1944.13 BIG WEEK On February 19 the USSTAF's meteorologists finally predicted a stretch of clear weather suited for visual attacks on aircraft and ball bearings targets. Their colleagues at the Eighth and Ninth Air Forces disagreed, not without reason, but Spaatz decided the Eighth should start Operation Argument. (Weather over the targets assigned to the Fifteenth did not allow the Italy-based force to join in.) As it was, the mission of February 20 was the largest yet mounted. Sixteen combat wings of bombers, over 1,000 planes, took off; 878 completed their mis- sions. A massive escort force was put up by seventeen Eighth and Ninth Air Force groups (thirteen P-47, two P-38, and two P-51 groups) and sixteen RAF squadrons. Despite the massive number of fighters, the escort at the far end  120 The Strategic Bombing of Germany 121 The Struggle for Air Superiority would be thin, and as on January 11, the Americans took the gamble of send. ing part of the force unescorted. The 3rd Bombardment Division's six combat wings would cross Denmark to strike aircraft plants at Tutow in northeast Ger many and Poznan in Poland, without fighters. Ten combat wings from the other two divisions would attack nine targets around Brunswick and Leipzig in cen- tral Germany; these ten wings had all the escort, and their flight was timed to prevent the enemy from concentrating against the 3rd Division. The Germans did not attack the northern force heavily, but because of clouds the gamble nevertheless did not pay off. Tutow had to be bombed on radar. and the force slated for Poznan went to Rostock instead. The central German targets were mostly in the clear, and the aircraft plants around Leipzig were heavi ly bombed. The German fighters reacted strongly, but all the bomber forces together lost only 21 planes (5 more were written off), while the escort claimed the destruction of 61 German fighters, for the loss of only 4