fter initial reverses the Americans learned how to use the Thunderbolt's good characteristics and to avoid situations in which its relatively poor rate of climb and acceleration put it at a disadvantage. They learned that it was desirable to stay well above the bombers; then they could pounce on Germans going for the Fortresses and Liberators, aided by the P-47's terrific diving speed. The Germans seemed ad- dicted to bad tactics; once in a tight spot, they tried to get away by diving. That worked well against the Spitfires and early-model P-38s, but was suicidal against P-47s, P-51s, and later-model P-38s. The Allies, with their advantages in numbers, longer training, and better planes and fuel, were already inflicting steady heavy losses on the Germans. The latter's fighter losses in the West had already begun to rise sharply in March; initially this probably reflected increasing engagements with British Spitfire 9s, which had overtaken the FW-190A and Me-109G in performance. In July 1943 alone the Germans lost 335 single-engine fighters in the West, nearly half the force available at the start of the month. An important implication of these heavy losses was, or seemed to be, that if bombing of German factories choked off replacements, the whole enemy fighter  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 92 The Abortive Offensive force would wither away in just four months, leaving the Allies with complete air superiority. Unfortunately, such hopes were based on an overestimate of the destructiveness of bombing and an underestimate of the ability of German in dustry to recover from attack. Eaker and his bomber commanders thought that Villth Fighter Command could have done better than it had. They blamed its commander, Gen. Frank Hunter, for slowness in getting the bugs out of the P-47 and getting new fighter groups into action, and they disagreed with him about escort tactics. Hunter favored sweeping well ahead of the bombers, while the bomber men wanted very close escort-too