oad targets on 15 and 18 days, hitting at least 90 different marshalling yards, as well as railroad bridges. If anything, it dis- persed its efforts too widely. On February 22-23 the Eighth and the other Allied forces carried out a special operation, Clarion, combining the attack on transportation with one on enemy morale. British and American planes ranged all over Germany, attacking marshalling yards, bridges, and stations located in small towns. Both heavy and medium bombers bombed from much lower than usual. Many had not liked  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 188 this plan. Eaker felt that it would cause excessive civilian casualties, and others criticized it as a dispersion of effort. Spaatz and SHAEF, however, considered it worth trying. They proved wrong; Clarion did little harm to the enemy. The blows hitting the enemy transportation system were so staggering that this made little difference. By the end of March car loadings were 11 percent of normal; only 7,000 of the 23,000 locomotives were working. Steel output fell to a quarter of normal; during that month even flak began to die off. Speer turned from trying to keep the economy going against Allied assault, to sabotag- ing Hitler's "scorched-earth" plan, announced on March 19, to destroy everything of economic importance in Germany as the Allies advanced. Most of Germany's mines and factories, even now, were more or less intact. Postwar surveys showed that even in the Ruhr, the most heavily bombed area, only 30 percent of the machinery had been smashed, and 20 percent damaged. It was the links bet- ween the mines and industries, and the vital oil industry, which produced the lifeblood of so many of the others, that had been destroyed. By the end of March the strategic air offensive was largely finished. Only a few missions against oil targets and explosives plants remained. Bomber Com- mand and the USSTAF focused largely on destroying German equipment and supplies already in being. On April 7 the RAF fi