the Eighth was able to carry out just two visual missions over Germany, and one of these was partly abor- tive and the other a lucky accident. The Fifteenth Air Force was tied down. hitting nearby targets in support of the Anzio beachhead, which was in grave danger from a German counteroffensive. The Eighth continued radar bombing. Some radar missions were effective the IG Farben chemical plant at Ludwigshafen was damaged twice. And the fighter escort did better. In November and December the P-51s and P-38s of the target-area escort had often been hard pressed to defend their charges and sometimes suffered lopsided losses themselves to the Germans. In early 1944 the bombers still suffered dreadfully sometimes, but even small forces of American fighters usually inflicted disproportionate losses on the attackers. On January 11 conditions in Germany seemed promising for visual attack. and the Eighth put up 663 bombers. While the 1st Bombardment Division's B-17s would bomb the Oschersleben Focke Wulf plant and a Junkers plant at Halberstadt, the other two divisions would hit aircraft components and assembly plants that were building the Me-110s around Brunswick. If weather hid the targets, Brunswick itself would be bombed. With long-range fighters still few, only the 1st Division would be escorted all the way to the target. The Germans 119 were expected to concentrate against it. Its target were farthest in, and it might seem to be going to Berlin. The other divisions would have to fend for themselves as they neared Brunswick. The meteorologists had been overoptimistic; as the bombers flew into central Germany the weather deteriorated. The 2nd and 3rd Divisions were recalled, but the 1st was so close to its target that it was allowed to proceed. The com- mander of the 3rd Division's leading wing decided he too might as well go ahead, and he ignored the recall signal. Weather had interfered with the rendezvous of the escort (this was before the change in policy), and onl