ans. The latter had long considered suicidal devices, including a piloted version of the V-1, and FW-190s carrying special heavy bombs, to crash-drive enemy ships. The pilots, in each case, were supposed to bail out in the final dive, although they were not likely to succeed. But for one reason or another these projects had fallen through. In March 1945 the Nazis formed a special "volunteer" unit, Sonderkommando Elbe, of 150 pilots. They were to ram American bombers, aiming at the fuselage in front of the tail, and if possible bail out. On April 7, covered by jets from JG 7 and some conventional fighters, 120-130 planes of Sonderkommando Elbe attacked, accompanied by propaganda exhortations over the radio. A nightmarish and furious air battle resulted. Up to 8 of the 17 bombers lost that day were rammed; astoundingly, 2 bombers were rammed but survived. The escort fighters claimed to have downed 64 planes, the bomber gunners 40. For once these were understatements-the Germans may have lost 133 planes. Sonderkommando Elbe did not reappear. The air force that had once ruled the sky from the English Channel to Russia had sunk to relying on kamikazes. The Germans launched a last-ditch operation against Bomber Command. On March 3, having scraped up a last reserve of fuel, they sent 100 night fighters to England on the first major intruder mission since 1941. Taking the British by surprise, they downed 22 bombers returning from Germany, losing only 6 planes themselves. On subsequent nights, smaller forces bombed and strafed Eight Air Force bases, but they achieved nothing. Jet operations continued for a few more weeks. In practice, despite their poten- tial, the jets did not cause all that much trouble. As many as 1,433 Me-262s may have been built, although possibly not all were complete; but no more than 200 were ever operational. They had destroyed only about 150 Allied planes, while 100 of the German jets were lost in air combat.18 THE FINAL CAMPAIGN AGAINST GERMAN TRA