ific intelligence for the Air Staff, set up an ingenious scheme to trick the enemy into thinking that the British were using another device, the J-Beam, so that the Germans would assume that they had mistaken "J" for the similar-sounding letter "G." Misinformation about "J" was fed to German spies operating in Britain under British control. A whole J-Beam system was devised; it was a copy of the German Knickebein system, which could be used with standard RAF gear. During the winter of 1941-1942 J-Beams were actually broadcast; in fact, they were of some use to RAF navigators until the Germans jammed them. The Gee receiver was given a new type of number to lead the Germans to think that it was a simple radio transceiver, while the Gee signals were subtly altered. Gee came into service on March 8, 1942. It radically improved Bomber Com- mand's navigation and ability to concentrate attacks, and saved many planes returning home to their bases. The Germans recovered a damaged Gee set on March 29 and began jamming Gee on August 4. A simple circuit modification gave some relief from jamming for a time, but the Germans soon rendered Gee useless over most of occupied Europe to most navigators. (Skilled men could distinguish the jamming signal from the genuine article as long as the signal strength of the latter was high.) A new Mark II Gee set, with wider frequency coverage, was introduced in February 1943. It allowed the Gee stations and navigators to make predetermined changes of frequency while the bombers were en route to a target. That only gave temporary relief, but Gee remained a tremendous help in the first and last stages of a flight, saving many planes throughout the war. The Americans adopted Gee and used a similar device, called Loran, which used a longer wavelength  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 42 The Reform of Bomber Command and had a much longer range. Gee also guided ships and landing craft in the great amphibious operations of the war. The Germans finall