g turn at Targoviste, and Ent's strange behavior after turning north from Bucharest, hurt the mission, but his mistake was a natural one Nevertheless, it should be noted, three of the five groups actually executed the original plan, although hampered by the ragged earlier attacks on some of their objectives. And they did much damage. The Colombia Aquila, Steaua Romana, and Creditul Minier refineries were actually more heavily damaged than expected; the last was knocked out for the duration. Had the whole force acted according to plan, it might have done more damage than the planners had hoped. As it was, the attack eliminated about 40 percent of Ploesti's refining 99 capacity for four to six months, but the enemy already had that much spare capacity. The Germans also lost some important specialized products-lubricating oils and paraffin wax-from Steaua Romana and Creditul Minier. But they swiftly brought in 10,000 slave laborers, and speedy repairs and the activation of idle undamaged units prevented a serious loss of supplies. The destruction effected did help eliminate the "cushion" of idle machinery that had existed earlier, so when the steady high-altitude attacks began in 1944, they had immediate effect.6 THE SCHWEINFURT-REGENSBURG MISSION In early August the Eighth Air Force rebuilt its strength. Bad weather allowed only one mission to Germany. The planners had plenty of time to ready the great double blow against Regensburg and Schweinfurt on August 17. That operation grew out of the confluence of two originally separate plans. While the Washington authorities were anxious to start hitting the ball bear- ings industry, Eaker thought that a direct blow against enemy fighter production-the most immediate threat to Allied bombers-should come first. The main Me-109 plants, at Regensburg in Bavaria and Wiener Neustadt in Austria, which made 500 of the 650 Me-109s built every month, had not yet been attacked. Even before Blitz Week, an elaborate coordinated assault