uhr had been so devastated by fire in 1943 that there was little left to burn; 85 percent of the bombs dropped there now were high explosives. The destruction was not far short of what might be seen in a nuclear war. If not for excellent shelters, evacuation of many women and children, and the dispersal of many workers to villages, there would have been far more deaths. The Ruhr alone was hit by over 60,000 tons of bombs. In at- tacks on the generally less devastated German cities outside the Ruhr, Bomber Command used more firebombs, but there Harris usually sent far smaller forces. Not all of these were simply area attacks. In some cases a factory was the aiming point, as in the notable instance of the Krupps works in Essen, which was shut down permanently after a particularly heavy attack. The attack on Saarbrücken on the night of October 5-6 was launched at the request of Patton's Third Ar- my in order to block the enemy's communications near the battle zone. The effort expended against cities would have contributed more to victory- and have simplified postwar reconstruction-if it had instead been aimed at oil and transport targets. But such tremendous blows could not help but have a devastating impact, and even contribute directly to the oil and transportation campaigns. In the Ruhr, especially, area attacks smashed benzol plants the Allies had not located. Even though not aimed at railroad centers, the attacks on cities blocked transportation routes. British official historians later argued with some cogency that the final series of area attacks were mainly responsible for the col- lapse of industrial production in the Ruhr, although in the rest of Germany. it was the attack on transportation that caused industry to fail. The area attacks wrecked the Ruhr's internal transportation system and its gas and electric power grids. Coal was plentiful in the Ruhr, but it could not be moved to where it was needed. Even water was short. The Germans tried frantically to k