of the preparations for D-Day. Nevertheless, there was a considerable reorientation of the strategic bombing effort, to attacks on airfields, V-weapon sites, and the railroad system in France and Belgium. As the shift occurred, at the same time that the Americans were winning control of the air during the day, the British had suffered a shattering defeat at night. After the Nuremberg mission it was clear that without a radical change, Bomber Command could not continue attacks deep inside Germany. The independent area offensive had failed. The shift to targets in France and Belgium in support of Overlord hid the defeat, but it forced Bomber Command to belatedly develop, or perhaps discover, a capability for attacks on precision targets, something Harris had always denied was possible. In a short time the RAF was bombing more accurately at night than the Americans could even on a clear day, making area attacks obsolete. After the spring of 1944 the British could join the Americans against precise targets that were vital to the enemy war effort, and they could often hit them more effectively than the Americans could. But as we shall see, they did not always do so.  128 The Strategic Bombing of Germany Strategic Air Offensive/The Normandy Invasion COMMAND ARRANGEMENTS AND PLANS It had been apparent for some time that the strategic air forces had to be at Eisenhower's disposal. But how he would control them was a contended issue No one wanted to trust Leigh-Mallory, the tactical air commander, with the heavy bombers as well. Churchill was willing to let Eisenhower control all the strategic air forces through his deputy supreme commander, Air Marshal Sir Arthur Tedder, but other British leaders regarded Bomber Command as a last "independent" arm of British action, and wished it to remain so. The Americans were insistent, and a nominal "compromise" reached on March 22, 1944, gave them what they wanted. The strategic air forces came under Eisenhower's direc tion, while Tedd