ies, and western Germany in daylight. This would take advantage of American successes during the day and allow more accuracy against small targets. He conceded, however, that the poor armament and limited ceiling of British bombers would prevent a full-scale day offensive against German targets. Harris was at first violently opposed, deeming the problems cited by Bottomley prohibitive, but in mid-June he began day attacks on nearby French targets. The bombers flew in loose "gaggles," covered by Spitfires. After an Oboe-guided pathfinder plane marked the target, each bombardier sighted and dropped his bombs individual- ly under the direction of a master bomber. German fighters rarely reached the bombers, and the latter proved surprisingly tough targets; the wild corkscrews used to evade the enemy at night worked against the day fighters too. In July a new technique, Oboe- or G-H-formation bombing, was introduced. Small for- mations of bombers followed a lead plane equipped with Oboe or G-H; when the leader bombed on electronic guidance, the rest of the formation let go as well. When a bigger formation was used, the leader fired a puff of smoke; the van of the force bombed on the leader, but those in the rear bombed when they drew even with the smoke. The 3 Group specialized in the G-H formation technique and became a blind-bombing day force. Oboe remained slightly more accurate; indeed, Oboe-formation bombing seemed to be the most accurate of all bombing methods; it was even better than 5 Group visual at night. Until  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 148 Decisive Offensives I: Oil late August, however, these methods were not used against German targets. By then the prospect for night bombing, too, had improved.5 The British did not mount any major operation against Germany at all in the first half of July; they concentrated on supporting the campaign in France. But they had a lucky break. On July 13 a Junkers 88G night fighter, full of the latest equipment, landed by