1, 1945, 5 Group returned; 104 planes smashed the Dortmund-Ems, and 157 cut the Mittelland. Only two bombers were lost. Another attack on the Mittelland Canal, on February 21-22, shut it for the rest of the war; the Dortmund-Ems was reopened in February, but by then it made little difference. It was closed for the last time by an attack on the night of March 3-4. For small losses the Allies had wrecked the German inland waterway system and thrown the burden of moving freight-above all, coal-onto the already overstrained railroads. Coal movement by water in Germany fell from 2,214,000 tons in August 1944 to 724,000 tons in October, then to 454,000 tons in November, rising slightly to 505,000 tons in December.5 167 THE ATTACK ON THE GERMAN RAILROADS During October the attack on the German railroad system continued. The Fifteenth Air Force struck Vienna and Munich, as well as rail targets in the part of Southeastern Europe under Nazi control, while the Eighth Air Force and Bomber Command concentrated mostly on western Germany. The strategic air forces alone dropped 35,000 tons of bombs on rail targets. The weather in October was bad and was responsible for the degree of concentration against transportation. Nearly all the American attacks on marshalling yards were made on H2X. Much of Bomber Command's contribution also fell through clouds; 3 Group, using the G-H formation technique, hit rail centers during the day, and there were night attacks as well. Bomber Command was far from concentrating all of its ef- forts on transportation, or oil, and many of its attacks were combined area and precision attacks. Often part of the force dispatched to a German city was directed at the center of the city, while part was directed at its marshalling yards. The Allies remained poorly informed about the real effects of the attacks. Look- ing at the purely tactical and immediate aspects of the railroad campaign, many saw only that the Germans must be getting at least an essential min