s that his reasoning was not convincing. He doubted that more than 11 percent of Germany's people could be "dehoused," and anyhow they could be rehoused in Austria and some other occupied countries. (In fact, the Germans did not bother to do this except in Austria.) The Germans would not surrender even if the predicted degree of destruction were attained. He worried about the growth of the German fighter force and insisted that it was necessary to bomb smaller cities containing vital industries, such as ball bearing and fighter plants.22 The Battle of Berlin began on the night of November 18-19. The weather was bad; sky markers had to be used. The attack failed. Three attacks in late November, beginning on the night of November 22-23, went better. An attack on November 26-27 was particularly effective. It damaged the Alkett tank plant, perhaps the most important factory in Berlin, and other war plants. Losses were relatively low, but that was due largely to gross blunders by the Germans and weather of a sort that hindered the night fighters even more than the bombers. The next attack on Berlin, on December 3-4, did little damage, and 40 of the 458 attacking bombers went down. The new H2S sets were not much help, and the planes carrying them suffered a high rate of aborted flights. Bomber Com- mand had more success against Leipzig the next night; then the moon halted attacks until December 16. From then on, losses were usually higher and suc- cessful attacks few. There was no reason to expect destruction in Berlin on the scale seen in Hamburg or the Ruhr. Berlin consisted of relatively low and well built modern structures; its wide streets and many open areas acted as firebreaks. British morale was low, thanks to the high losses and miserable cold. Some planes were over- loaded, and many crews jettisoned their blockbusters en route to gain height and speed. What were scornfully called "fringe merchants," who bombed as soon as they saw markers rather than aiming at th