ld be possible. Studies of Britain's experience in the Blitz suggested that massive area attacks on cities would impair production for a time by injuring the workers' morale and wrecking city services. These calculations were a bit optimistic; the British did not take into account the fact that German bombs were more powerful than British bombs of the same size (the Germans used more powerful explosives and higher ratios of explosive to casing) and that German buildings were more stoutly built than British ones. The Air Staff decided to use a higher proportion of in- cendiary bombs, rightly arguing that in area attacks they were more destruc- tive, weight for weight, than HE bombs. (Later experience would suggest that this was also true for precision attacks, even against industrial plants built to be fire resistant.) Although the British used bigger and bigger "high-capacity" HE bombs, ultimately in sizes up to 12,000 pounds, their purpose was mainly to "soften  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 32 The Failure of Bomber Command up" cities for fire attacks. These "blockbusters" would rip up roofs, blow open doors and windows, break water mains, and drive air raid wardens and firemen to cover, opening the way for fires. The British would experiment with a wide variety of incendiary weapons, some quite unusual. Like the Germans, they tried oil- or liquid-filled bombs, but these were not too successful. The type the Ger- mans hated most was a thirty-pound weapon containing white phosphorus, designed to smash through to the lower floors of buildings, because the phosphorus inflicted horrible burns on anyone it hit. But the main weapon of destruction was a four-pound bomb similar to one used by the Germans against England. Dropped in clusters, it consisted of a two-pound stick of magnesium with a two-pound iron head to insure that it would slam through a roof. The British were slow to obtain a good ballistic container for it, but along with the blockbuster, this humble-lo