ck intensified, even though a new directive on December 5 gave direct attacks in support of the Allied armies second priority, ahead of transportation, for a time, and there was still widespread skepticism about the railroad campaign. Even the unsystematic attack of September and October, with its inattention to interdiction, had been more effective than the Allies dreamed. Even troop movements were slower. In a report to Hitler on December 5, Speer had already warned of disaster looming in the Ruhr. The collapse of the German economy had started. Bombers alone were not responsible for the transportation disaster fighter attacks were so common that the Germans normally did not run trains in daylight, west of a line running well east of the Rhine. Traffic in some areas was already severely restricted. On September 19 the left bank of the Rhine was closed to all freight except weapons, coal, and food. The relentlessly falling bombs left marshalling yards unable to form trains and keep traffic moving. This was not an overnight process. As in the battle over oil, there was a struggle of repair efforts against growing, cumulative damage The Strategic Bombing Survey later calculated that it took an average of six heavy attacks to more or less wreck a typical marshalling yard. On October 18 Hitler ordered that repairs to marshalling yards be given first call on labor. The Germans mobilized vast masses of workers; sometimes 8,000-12,000 men were needed to repair a yard after a big attack. But as in the repairs to canals and viaducts, the Germans found that pick-and-shovel laborers did not make up for their lack of the heavy earth-moving machinery Americans were used to. Bulldozers were better than slaves. 169 Traffic moved only in spurts. All coal movement by rail south from the Ruhr was stopped from October 14 to 18; after that, only a fifth of the usual hundred coal trains daily left the region. Coal, the biggest item, piled up at the Ruhr mines, and iron ore failed to re