sionally, men serving in a squadron that had suffered exceptional losses were let off before 30 trips.) In May 1943 the second tour was mercifully limited to 20 operations. Crews serving in Mosquitos and in Pathfinder units had longer tours, but with various compensations. The crews usually flew seven or eight times a month, less in the winter. But the strain was worse than such figures imply, for many operations were readied and then cancelled at the last minute because of bad weather. Such last-minute reprieves were generally not appreciated. During 1942 weapons and tactics changed considerably. Bomber Command shifted over to largely incendiary bombloads; during the summer 8,000-pound blockbusters were introduced, along with special marker bombs for use by the new Pathfinder target-finding force, which will be discussed later. Bomber Com- mand finally obtained an effective bombsight, the Mark 14 stabilized vector sight. The introduction of Gee meant a change in tactics. Until 1944 Bomber Com- mand emphasized overwhelming concentration in time and space against a single target city, an idea long favored by Harris. Instead of flying singly to the target, planes concentrated in a single "bomber stream," to get as many bombers through the German defenses and over the target in as short a time as possible. This overloaded the Kammhuber Line, for each box was designed to engage one bomber at a time. At the target, the new Shaker technique was introduced. At first only a few bombers had Gee equipment; they were manned by picked crews and marked the aiming points for the rest of the force. Some lit up the target area with flares; then others dropped incendiary bombs to start fires. The rest of the force, with mixed, but largely incendiary, loads, aimed at the fires.9 On March 3 elements of the new tactics were tried out in a precision attack on a French target, the Renault works at Billancourt, in the Paris suburbs, which made 14,000 trucks a year for the Germans. Gee was