y's third new fighter, the Lockheed P-38 Lightning, was an outstanding plane of unusual design. It had twin engines mounted in long booms, the pilot and guns housed in a small nacelle between them. But it was hard to manufacture, and production was delayed because the Army recklessly used the sole prototype to attempt to set a speed record in February 1939. It crashed, setting back the P-38's development by nearly two years.11 In 1940, as two British historians of the Battle of Britain wrote, "there was nothing President Roosevelt could do to help Fighter Command" because none of the fighters being built in the United States were suitable for combat in Europe. As World War II began, the Army Air Corps was a small force, and save for its heavy bombers, had second-rate equipment. It consisted of less than 26,000 men and just 1,500 planes, and was a fraction of the size of the Luftwaffe. 12 THE ENEMY AND THE TARGET The British and the Americans were almost alone in developing strategic bombing forces. A major factor in this was probably the fact that, as all but the most op- timistic proponents of strategic bombing realized, a successful strategic bombing campaign would take a long time. Britain and the United States were sea powers and did not maintain large standing armies. They had always expected to take considerable time, in any major war, to build up their strength and bring it to bear against the enemy. A continental land power with powerful neighbors, temp- ted by or exposed to invasion on the ground, and seeking or fearing a quick deci- sion, was almost bound to have less interest in strategic air attack. Advocates of strategic bombing forces elsewhere were not very successful. The Soviets, who had the largest air force in the world in the 1930s, built some well designed heavy bombers comparable to the B-17, but seem to have envisaged us- ing them to strike the "deep rear" of an opposing army and air force-railheads and bases far behind the front-rather than f