2, a specially equipped "ferret" Wellington was sent to find out whether the Germans had an airborne radar and to determine its characteristics. Accompanying the main force to Frankfurt, it deliberately invited attack by night fighters. Everyone aboard was wounded and the plane had to ditch off the British coast, but the mission suc- ceeded; it gave a complete picture of the enemy radar. The British then fitted a search receiver, Boozer, to their bombers to pick up both Wurzburg and Lichtenstein. They also installed Monica, a tail-warning radar, on their planes. Unfortunately, Boozer and Monica had too short a range to do much good. Monica interfered with Oboe and, as we shall see, had an even worse drawback.2 51 To its disgust, Bomber Command was ordered to smash the ports in France where the U-boats were based-the only area attacks ever authorized on targets outside Germany. It was vaguely hoped that these attacks would interfere with submarine operations by damaging maintenance facilities and power supplies outside the invulnerable submarine pens. On April 6, after St. Nazaire and Lorient had been leveled without any effect on the pens and with the loss of 38 planes, Harris was released from his commitment to attack La Pallice and Brest. Although these attacks on the French ports had generally been launched when the weather over Germany was impossible, this campaign did delay the start of the Battle of the Ruhr. It is hard to believe that some more effective way of striking at the enemy could not have been found. HAPPY VALLEY The British had long been fascinated by the great Ruhr industrial region. It was a classic center of coal, steel, and heavy machinery production. The Ruhr was heavily defended by flak and hidden by perpetual smog; the men of Bomber Command sarcastically referred to it as Happy Valley. The British were almost obsessed by the great Krupps works (Gustahlfabrik Friedrich Krupp), which covered 1,088 acres in Essen, a fabulous center of the German