elopment of fighters lagged behind that of bombers. But in the late 1930s the development of radar, and faster and more heavily armed fighters, suggested that the bomber might not get through a properly designed defense system after all. The worries of Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain and others over growing defense costs inspired a review of defense issues by the newly appointed minister for defense coordination, Thomas Inskip-in 1937. Chamberlain wanted to show that the resources to increase the army, as well as the air force and the navy, did not exist, but the review had farther-reaching effects. Inskip had no experience in military affairs and was widely regarded as unfit for his office, but he was astute enough to consult a brilliant civil servant, Maurice Hankey. In December 1937, prompted by Hankey, Inskip concluded that the RAF's proper role was not to launch a knockout blow before the Ger- mans could, but stop an enemy attack. Quick victory could not be expected, but the RAF could and should secure the British Isles as a base for an offensive during a long war. Therefore fighters, not bombers, must be given priority. These ideas were accepted, and the aim of numerical parity with the Germans in bombers was abandoned. Thus the most crucial decision affecting Britain's military buildup before World War II led-fortunately-to a deemphasis on strategic bombing. This did not instantly abolish the fear of a knockout blow by the German air force, the strength of which was then greatly exaggerated. This fear was a factor, although not a central one, in the surrender at Munich.7 The decision to stress air defense of Great Britain had been taken in the teeth of the predominant opinion in the RAF. But the defense system built under Lord Dowding (head of Fighter Command from 1936 to 1940) proved almost the only element of the British military that was genuinely ready when war broke out. The RAF had not been lucky in its senior commanders, nor had the Air Ministry met