ed actions or scrapped after return; 552 men were killed and 65 captured The destruction of the city had required 3,091 sorties and the dropping of 8,344 tons of bombs. 15 The Germans were near panic. Speer warned Hitler that attacks of this sort on six more major cities would halt arms production. Hitler was more confi dent, assuring Speer that he would straighten it all out. In fact, the RAF could not repeat the success at Hamburg, which had stemmed from several unusual circumstances: a long period of good flying weather, odd weather conditions in the target area, atypical paralysis of the defenses, and easy location of the target on H2S. (In spite of this, the marking at Hamburg had not been very accurate.) The disaster was local and temporary, but deep. Although herculean efforts were made to rush help to the shattered city, Gauleiter Karl Kaufmann urged people to flee (not that urging was really needed), and 1.2 million did so. The city was left without water, gas, power, or public transportation for some time. The port was at a standstill for lack of labor more than anything else, besides which some railroad facilities, 122 cranes, and nearly 500 warehouses had been destroyed or damaged. Although the main industries had not suffered great direct damage-the RAF had not aimed at them, and smoke had rendered the American attacks inaccurate-the destruction of many small workshops and the general disruption probably cost the city 1.8 months of full war production. Pro- duction returned to 80 percent of the preattack level in five months, but never did recover fully. The attacks cost Germany 20 to 27 U-boats and delayed in- troduction of the new Type 21 and Type 23 high-speed U-boats. Nevertheless, 63 the destruction of Hamburg was not one of the more glorious episodes of the Allied war effort. It is hard not to feel that the 8,000 tons of bombs dropped on the city would not have caused more damage to the Nazis if aimed at the industrial areas south of the Elbe.16 P