tack marshalling yards and synthetic oil plants in the Ruhr. These attacks did little damage. Bomber Command could not have influenced the Battle of France even had its operations been effective. But after the battle was over, bombers were the only offensive weapon the Allies, what was left of them, had. Britain was alone; Bomber Command was the only, if pitifully ineffective, means with which it could strike Germany. On August 8 Churchill wrote that should Hitler "be repulsed here or not try invasion, he will recoil eastward, and we have nothing to stop him. But there is one thing that would bring him back and bring him down, and that is an absolutely devastating, exterminating attack by very heavy bombers from this country on the Nazi homeland. We must be able to over- whelm them by this means, without which I do not see a way through." In September he put it more pithily. "The Navy can lose us the war, but only the Air Force can win it." By early June it was clear that the war's next phase would see a desperate strug- gle for air supremacy. Air Marshal Sir Charles Portal, who had replaced Ludlow- Hewitt in April, was ordered to attack aircraft plants when oil plants could not be found. Several times reshuffling its priorities, the RAF went after aircraft plants and airfields, German ports, and shipping. More units were assigned to mining enemy-controlled waters; this proved an effective and cheap means of sinking enemy ships, superior to direct attacks with bombs and torpedoes. During August, Bomber Command concentrated on "counter-air" operations against the Luftwaffe's bases and factories, while 2 Group, now flying mostly at night, bombed the ports across the English Channel from which an invasion of Britain was to be mounted. A special operation was launched to stop the  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 26 The Failure of Bomber Command assembly of the invasion fleet by wrecking the aqueduct that carried the Dortmund-Ems Canal over the Ems River. Barges and sma