tson-Watt, the inventor of radar, persuasively argued that it would take the enemy a year to eighteen months to duplicate it. In June 1942 the project suffered a terrible setback when half the development team was killed in an air crash while testing H2S. It was finally introduced, in small numbers, only in January 1943. Later a three-centimeter version was introduced. The Germans recovered an H2S set, without a cathode-ray tube, from a shot-down plane as early as February 1943, but it took them some time to realize what it was. By the fall of 1943 they had developed a compact warning device, Naxos, for in- stallation in U-boats and planes to detect the ten-centimeter radars. Night fighters using it could track British bombers from 50 kilometers; Korfu, a similar ground- based device, could track bombers at a range of 125 miles and even pick up transmis- sions from H2S sets being tested in Britain. Since the British were effectively jamming German radar by then, this was a great help to the Germans. After they captured a Naxos set in mid-1944, the British imposed a partial H2S silence on their planes; the sets were only turned on for short periods when absolutely necessary. Despite the Germans' ability to turn it against the Allies, H2S was extremely valuable. The British developed a three-centimeter version of it, which the Americans copied as H2X, better known to air crews as Mickey.8  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 44 The Reform of Bomber Command NEW WEAPONS AND TACTICS In 1942 Bomber Command's destructive power vastly increased. More Stirlings and Halifaxes became available; Whitleys, Hampdens, and the failed Manchester were withdrawn from operations. The Mosquito and the Lancaster, the backbone of the command for the rest of the war, entered service. The Mosquito was first used by 2 Group for small, unescorted daylight strikes on precision targets deep in Germany as well as in the occupied countries; later an Oboe-equipped night bomber, a night fighter, a fig