rd priority, after Möhne and Eder. Three less important dams would be at- tacked if the first three were smashed. The attacking force was divided into three waves. The first wave of nine planes, led by Gibson himself, was to destroy the Möhne, then the Eder. If any planes still had Upkeeps, they would then go to the Sorpe. A second wave of five planes would fly right to the Sorpe. It had been decided that different methods were needed there. The Upkeeps would  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 56 Area Bombing & the Defeat of Bomber Command not be spun, and the bombers would fly along the length of the dam, as low as possible, dropping the mines in the water just short of the centerpoint, although some people, such as Barnes Wallis, believed that some simple experiments would have suggested a better method of attack. A third wave of six planes-in the actual event, only five planes were available-was to follow Gibson's route. The third wave would be recalled if all three main targets were destroyed; if no message was received it would attack the Möhne and then the Eder. On the night of May 16-17, 617 Squadron set out on its incredibly dangerous mission, threading its way through gaps in the heaviest defenses in Europe. The first wave had one plane shot down en route to the Möhne. The dam itself proved lightly defended; there were only six 20-millimeter guns instead of the dozen 20-millimeter or 37-millimeter guns that had been expected. Gibson attacked first. His mine exploded short of the dam. The second plane went in; its mine bounced right over the dam, and the explosion brought down the plane. Incredibly, two of the crewmen survived. The third plane was damaged on the way in; its mine blew short of the dam. The fourth plane attacked in company with the third, while Gibson tried to draw the enemy's fire. Its Upkeen hit, but seemingly had no effect. But then, as the fifth plane made its run, the dam burst; the fifth mine also hit. Two planes went home; Gibson took th