he particularly devastating attack on Coventry in November 1940 caused a brief decline in aircraft production but did not permanently hurt the RAF; no vital industry or basic part of the economy suffered decisive damage.4 Despite the relatively small effect of German night bombing, during 1941 and 1942 the RAF would copy many features of the German onslaught, including area bombing, the use of electronic guidance systems and pathfinder units to mark the target, and the use of incendiaries and very heavy explosive bombs. ILLUSIONS, 1940-1941 It should have been obvious that Bomber Command faced a more formidable task than the one at which the Luftwaffe had failed, but the British remained confident that they could do tremendous damage to Germany. With the Nazi attacks on civilian areas, scruples about destroying German residential areas and  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 28 The Failure of Bomber Command civilians had eroded. Earlier, British bombers had sometimes returned without bombing if the crews were not sure they had found their assigned target. But on September 9 they were ordered to bomb if at all possible. German civilians were not yet deliberately chosen targets, but letting them suffer "unintended" destruction was now more acceptable. Some wished to go further; in September Portal suggested deliberate retaliatory raids against 20 German cities. But the Air Ministry and the Air Staff disliked deliberate retaliation-apart from the special case of Berlin-and Portal did not pursue it after becoming chief of the Air Staff in October 1940. He already doubted that Bomber Command was really hitting its assigned targets, but Sir Richard Peirse, his successor at Bomber Command, was more rigid and overconfident. At the height of the anti-invasion struggle, the Air Staff had reminded Bomber Command that attacking the Nazis' oil supply remained the "basis of our longer- term offensive strategy." Bad weather, however, had rendered moot the direc- tives in October tha