direc- tive with the British; they would continue to supply most of the Eighth's fighter support until the Americans could take over the job. Targets would be picked in consultation with the RAF's assistant chief of staff for operations. The need to support the North African invasion and the worsening situation in the Battle of the Atlantic swung the Eighth's operations increasingly toward attacks on the submarine bases in France. Washington's thinking was increasingly influenced by the U-boat threat and a growing concern with the "intermediate objective" of beating the Luftwaffe. After all, if the bombers did not reach their targets, they were not going to accomplish anything else. 77 In response to the President's request for an estimate of what the Allies would need for "complete air ascendancy over the enemy," the AAF developed AWPD-42, a new version of AWPD-1, in September. The new plan was in- fluenced by an optimistic assessment of the Eighth Air Force's first missions. AWPD-42 estimated that the Germans might still defeat the Soviets; this might release half the Axis forces engaged in the east. To win air superiority and crip- ple the Germans, it would be necessary to smash seven target systems, compris- ing 177 targets. In order of priority, this included 11 fighter assembly plants, 15 bomber assembly plants, 17 aircraft engine plants, and 20 submarine yards- every production center for those items. Following them were 38 transporta- tion targets, 37 electric power targets, 23 oil production targets, 14 aluminum plants, and two rubber plants. It was expected that repeat attacks would be needed on some, but not all, of these targets. Assuming that the bombers could defend themselves, an average circular error in bombing of 1,000 feet (which was twice as good as the Eighth had yet achieved); that it would be possible to mount five or six operation a month (which was overoptimistic in winter, at least); and that there would be an average attrition rate of 20 p