ituation in Overlord was past. Although many present doubted that the Transportation Plan would be effective, Eisenhower commented that it was only necessary to show that there would be "some reduction, however small, to justify adopting the plan, provided there was no alternative."4 So he favored it; he later told General Marshall that he saw no other way for the air forces to help the invasion.5 But he remained aware of Spaatz's argument that an attack on the German oil industry would force a battle on the Luftwaffe and at least leave the way open to adding interdiction attacks at a later stage. Spaatz kept the oil alternative before him. Churchill continued opposing the Transportation Plan, although it was revised to require bombing only 74 rail centers and estimates of probable civilian losses were reduced to 10,500 killed and 5,500 seriously injured. Eisenhower's insistence and FDR's refusal to overrule the military commanders ended Churchill's op- position, but not his conviction that the plan was wrong. The Ninth Air Force had attacked some rail centers as early as March, even before the plan was ap- proved, but opposition on the part of Churchill and the War Cabinet delayed attacks on some targets. Many rail centers were alloted to the strategic air forces. Bomber Command received 39 targets and the Eighth Air Force 23, including some in western Germany. The Fifteenth Air Force was initially assigned targets in southern France and Germany, but the German targets were finally dropped;  132 The Strategic Bombing of Germany Strategic Air Offensive/The Normandy Invasion attacks on the railroads in Southeastern Europe were substituted. Spaatz was to slyly use this to start the oil campaign. Bomber Command bore the main brunt of the Transportation Plan.6 NIGHT PRECISION BOMBING Bomber Command's surprising ability to handle this task stemmed from the convergence of two different developments. The long-standing efforts by 617 Squadron to develop the ability to attac