. Eventually the Allies would probably have jammed any radio-guidance systems the Germans could have developed for either antiaircraft or offensive missiles, but a combina- tion of fast fighters like the Do-335 and missiles might have enabled the Ger- mans to regain air superiority and even do serious damage to Allied bases for a time. The Germans' failure to fully mobilize for war until 1942 left the Luftwaffe far smaller than it need have been. Their failure to build more fighters was exacerbated by their reluctance to stop bomber production in favor of fighters until 1944. The Germans also blundered in handling their training program. Initially it was just not big enough; later they fell for the temptation to turn out as many pilots as they could as soon as possible, even though they were less well trained. This proved foolish, as the inadequately trained pilots proved easy prey for Allied pilots. The Strategic Bombing Survey later concluded that "the deterioration of quality of German pilots appears to be the most important single cause of the defeat of the German Air Force."11 The Germans made other, tactical mistakes. In night defense their one major mistake was to end the night intruder operations over Britain in 1941. In day fighting their mistakes were more numerous. During 1943 they usually avoided engaging American escort fighters, either striking after the escorts had left the bombers or evading them to hit the bombers in preference. The concentration on shooting down bombers was understandable up to a point, but it let American fighter units grow in experience and fly deeper and deeper into Germany. The Luftwaffe's mistaken, or at least overlong, reliance on the clumsy twin-engine fighters stemmed from and accentuated the concentration on fighting bombers. So did its addiction to assembling large formations before engaging the enemy. Given the vast superiority of the Allies in numbers and quality, however, the Luftwaffe's tactical errors probably merely