5 Above all, the oil offensive was hurt by the RAF's inadequate participation. Even before it regained the ability to fly deep into Germany in July 1944, it could have hit the northwestern oil refineries. Harris's obsession with area attack let oil production recover in the fall and probably prolonged the war into 1945. Alan Milward later wrote that "by the narrowest of margins, the strategic air offensive failed to smash Germany's economy by this one method of attack."9 The transportation offensive, too, was less effective than it might have been. Germany's inland waterways could have been paralyzed more easily and effec- tively. The early railroad attacks were unsystematic. The Allies failed to con- centrate on the most critical marshalling yards and did not interdict the crucial bridges and viaducts around the Ruhr until late in the day. But some Allied mistakes went much further back. BOMBER COMMAND: MISTAKES AND OPPORTUNITIES A mistake that the prewar RAF shared with the American Army Air Force, was the belief in the self-defending daylight bomber formation. As far as the RAF was concerned, this illusion was promptly, and literally, shot down in 1939. But its reaction to this discovery was about as flawed as was the Americans' clinging to the idea until 1943. Although it has rarely been attacked even by Bomber Command's most vehement critics, the decision to shift to night bomb- ing was a bad mistake. It was based on three mistaken assumptions: 1. Long-range fighter escort to targets in Germany would never be possible. 2. Night bombing would not be much less accurate than bombing during the day, or at least, a capability for accurate night attack would be easily attained. 3. The German defenses at night would never be much more formidable than they were in 1940. The first and last assumptions were disproven by events, and it took years for the British to gain the ability to carry out accurate attacks at night. The whole unsatisfactory practice of area attack wa