g bombers rather than ground targets and a limited ammunition load, it was not much of a weapon. (By con- trast, most Allied fighters could carry bombloads of up to a ton, and some much more.) In spite of Hitler's order, Me-262s nominally on test flights operated as fighters; during late July 1944 they began hunting Mosquitos and reconnaissance Spitfires over Germany. In the futile effort to stem the Allied advance, nine planes of Kampfgeschwader 51 were rushed to France. The unreadiness of the Me-262 units became clear; four planes were lost en route, and the attacks of the rest had little effect. Speer managed to secretly give General Galland a few fighter-type Me-262s. Finally, in September, Hitler relented and allowed Me-262s to be built as fighters because a light jet bomber, the Arado 234, was now coming off the assembly lines. A fighter unit of thirty to forty Me-262s was formed. Named Kommando Nowotny, after its leader, Maj. Walter Nowotny, it entered combat in October. based at two fields near Osnabrück. But it rarely put up more than four planes a day. Jet operations were hampered by a shortage of spare parts, and the Luft- waffe's jet fuel was not very good. Despite the attack on the oil in oil industry, enough of the fuel was produced, but its quality deteriorated. Nowotny's pilots were not well trained and achieved only modest successes against the vast Allied air fleets. The 30 mm. cannon were deadly when the jets got at the bombers, but they rarely did so, and the Me-262 was not especially dangerous to Mustangs. American fighter pilots were eager to engage jets; the latter were not too maneuverable, and their engines seemed vulnerable to even a few hits. Basing Kommando Nowotny so far west was probably a mistake. The Allies knew that the jets were most vulnerable when taking off and landing, and the British Second Tactical Air Force, now based on the Continent, mounted standing patrols of Mustangs and Tempests over the jet bases. The Germans countered