26; smoke again hid their primary target, a U-boat yard, but this time it was a smoke screen deliberately laid by the Germans. The American attacks caused a good deal of damage to industry, although much of this was not to the planned targets, at the cost of heavy American losses. 13 Bomber Command rested on the night of July 26-27. On the night of July 27-28 it sent 787 planes to Hamburg. The aiming point was to be the same as in the first attack, but pure "blind" marking was used. This time the British 61 carried a much larger proportion of incendiary bombs; this was decided on in order to lighten the loads of the Halifaxes and Stirlings. The Germans were already responding to Window. They had two new night- fighting tactics, the highly non-kosher Tame Sow and Wild Sow. In Tame Sow they let night fighters fly around freely, leaving the boxes. A controller gave them a running commentary on the location not of individual British bombers but of the entire bomber stream. Wild Sow used slightly modified single-engine day fighters, usually flown by ex-bomber pilots. Without radar, they flew over a city under attack, using the illumination provided by flares, searchlights, and the fires below to find the bombers. Some Wild Sows had operated earlier over Cologne and in the first Hamburg attack. But these measures did not save Ham- burg; on this night the defenses proved only slightly more effective, destroying 17 British planes. Two minutes before the planned opening of the attack, yellow marker bombs crashed into the Billwarder area, a lower- and lower-middle-class district. This was two miles from the aiming point, but the markers were well concentrated. So was the bombing. Of 722 bombers claiming to have struck Hamburg, drop- ping 2,326 tons of bombs, 325 bombed within three miles of the aiming point. It was soon clear to the middle and rearguard of the bomber force that something unusual was going on. Men smelled smoke in their oxygen masks and found their planes cove