s supply system. Spaatz's in- sistence that bridge busting and line cutting by smaller planes would be more effective than bombing railroad yards represented a genuine conviction, not just a way to deflect participation in the Transportation Plan, and others agreed 135 with him. An experimental attack on several bridges by RAF Typhoon fighter- bombers on April 21 did not destroy them but left them unusable for a time; this strongly suggested that such attacks would be effective. The headquarters of Bernard Montgomery, the British general who would be commander of the ground forces on D-Day, urged trying to destroy more bridges. Leigh-Mallory was strongly opposed, but the Americans proved him wrong. On May 7 medium bombers and dive-bombing Thunderbolts successfully attacked several bridges, after which even Leigh-Mallory was convinced. Two rings of interdiction were to be established across the rail routes into Normandy. The first would cut all bridges across the Seine and Loire, while an outer ring would be established east of Paris. To avoid tipping off the enemy to the invasion site, the Allies concentrated on the outer ring first. Most of the Seine bridges waited until the last two weeks before D-Day, while the Loire bridges would be hit only after the invasion. The destruction of the Loire bridges had an additional benefit; after the breakout from Normandy, it enabled Gen. George Patton's Third Army to dash far to the east without much attention to its southern flank. Experience showed that B-26 attacks from medium altitude were more effec- tive than the fighter-bombers, although the latter proved useful in finishing off damaged bridges and blocking tunnels. The Eighth's heavies attacked the Seine bridges on June 4, but the Ninth Air Force did most of the work. Only 4,400 tons of bombs were needed for bridge attacks, far less than against marshalling yards. Fighters of the tactical and strategic air forces helped to strangle traffic by attacking trains. These "C