he desirability of forcing Harris to contribute more to the oil effort, it might have been desirable to split responsibility for the northwestern refineries too. On June 14 Spaatz restarted the Eighth's campaign against oil in a small way. While nearly 1,300 bombers hammered other targets, 61 B-24s bombed a refinery at Emmerich, near the Dutch-German border, in the Eighth's first attack on natural crude-oil production. On June 15 most of the Eighth was again engaged in France, but 172 B-17s struck refineries at Hannover. On June 18 the Eighth was really unleashed, against eleven different refineries at Hamburg, Bremen, and Hannover. The weather forced the use of H2X, but the attack on Ham- burg seemed successful. This was the first of fifteen missions the Eighth would fly against the oil targets in the Hamburg-Harburg area; Bomber Command  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 150 Decisive Offensives I: Oil would fly four. One June 20 the Eighth mounted its largest force yet (1,361 bombers) against Germany, striking the synthetic plants at Magdeburg and Poelitz and refineries at Hamburg, Harburg, Hannover, and Ostermoor. These attacks, especially the 2nd Division's on Poelitz, met strong resistance; 49 bombers and 5 fighters went down over Germany while 3 more bombers never flew again. Despite these exceptionally bad losses, the bombing was effective. This was the last big mission in June that was concentrated on oil alone. On June 21, while the main force struck aircraft plants, rail centers, and other targets in Berlin, 145 B-17s of the 3rd Division hit the largest of the Fischer-Tropsch plants, at Ruhland. This force then flew to the Ukraine, carrying out the Eighth's first shuttle mission to Soviet bases. Even with complete air superiority-which, it bears repeating, did not always prevent terrible losses to an individual bomber group-attacks on oil objectives sometimes failed. On June 24 an attack by 340 B-17s on a refinery at Bremen misfired when clouds and smoke sc