although there was growing worry about jet and rocket fighters, which had yet to engage in serious combat, opposition from conventional planes was ragged, at least for the Eighth Air Force. The Fifteenth met tougher opposition, especially over Vienna. The Americans continued to waste effort on the now well dispersed production of piston-engine planes and ball bearings, but there were many missions to oil targets. Merseburg-Leuna alone was bombed six times between July 20 and September 28. Some attacks against oil and aircraft plants in central Germany, and the mission to the Hamburg refineries on August 4, caused the Luftwaffe to come up. The limited forces committed fought hard, but their losses were proportionately as bad as on July 7, while the bombers went relatively unscathed. Only on September 11 did the Nazis have the forces and the will for another massive effort; it too ended disastrously.12 PLOESTI Far to the southeast of the other main targets of the strategic air war, the Fifteenth Air Force, with some British help, waged its own campaign against the refineries and transportation facilities around Ploesti. The British effort, although inconspicuous, was more important than it seemed at the time. Start- ing in April the RAF's 205 Group had begun dropping mines in the Danube, which carried about a third of the oil produced in Romania to the Reich. The Germans tried elaborate countermeasures, including a squadron of transport planes equipped to sweep magnetic mines from the air. (Ironically, they foolishly grounded the unit as gasoline grew short.) The mines sank many ships and barges and largely halted river traffic. RAF night intruders also strafed and destroyed some oil barges. The Americans continued a long and difficult campaign against the oil source. General Gerstenberg was still in command at Ploesti and operated as Geilenberg's local counterpart. On May 5, after the oil campaign had been formally approved, the Fifteenth attacked the marshalling yar