was en route to a conference between Roosevelt and Churchill at Quebec, Portal urged the other British chiefs of staff to seek a partial reversion to the earlier command arrangements. He and General Arnold should handle the air offensive for the Combined Chiefs of Staff. Portal argued that with the Allies firmly ashore, the situation had changed; there was now less need to use the bombers in direct support of the armies. He claimed that Eisenhower was not really concerned with the main aims of the strategic air offensive, and that the movement of Eisenhower's head- quarters from England to France would impede coordination of the offensive. Keeping the bombers under Eisenhower might interfere with plans to use the strategic air forces to attack German morale directly. Portal, perhaps prudently, did not try to cite any instance where Eisenhower's control had actually been harmful. The real flaw in the Allied command was not Eisenhower's control, but Portal's failure to control Sir Arthur Harris. This was already being shown by Harris's  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 162 Decisive Offensives II: Transportation reversion to area attacks on German cities, at the expense of attacks on oil. But the British chiefs of staff pressed Portal's view at Quebec. It was not universally welcomed. Spaatz and Harris did not want a change; they were content to stay under Eisenhower, who naturally favored the existing arrangement. Even Arnold at first opposed Portal's proposal, but the American chiefs were won over. Eisenhower was placated by assurances that he would still get any direct support he needed. It was agreed to put Arnold and Portal in control of the strategic air offensive, with Spaatz and Bottomley as their local represen- tatives. The British favored having the Combined Chiefs of Staff set explicit objectives-oil, ball bearings, tank production, ordnance depots, and motor transport production, in that order of priority-in the directive establishing the command change, b