k, and Britain was an easier target for German bombers than Germany was for Bomber Command. The Germans were based close to their objectives; British cities are near the coast and were easily found. Spotting specific targets like factories, however, was difficult for the Germans as well. But, far in advance of the British, they had developed electronic devices to guide their bombers. The first round of the electronic war began as the British tried to jam these systems. They quickly jammed Knickebein, the simplest blind-bombing device, which could be used by any bomber. The Germans then had to turn to more complex devices requiring special equipment and training. These were used by a special pathfinder unit that preceded the main bomber force, dropping incendiary bombs to mark the target. The marking tactics were less effective, and the British learned to jam these systems too. The Germans continued to bomb Britain heavily, especially London, which would have been hard to miss even without a guidance system. But erratic target selection by the Luftwaffe, the inefficiency of the pathfinder technique, and the inexperience of many bomber crews prevented the Germans from making good use even of intervals when British jamming was not so effective. Accordingly, the Germans readily accepted "area bombing" for the purpose of terrorizing British civilians. The idea of blasting the residential areas of London to cause the resistance to collapse seems to have lurked in Goering's mind, at least, from the start of the Battle of Britain. Area attacks did not disturb the Luftwaffe's senior officers, even if they regarded them as inferior to striking military installa- tions and war plants. Contrary to a widespread myth, the Blitz did hurt British morale, but it was far from breaking. The particularly devastating attack on Coventry in November 1940 caused a brief decline in aircraft production but did not permanently hurt the RAF; no vital industry or basic part of the economy suffe