leased from the Army. Deep shelters were built at the plants, so workers could emerge to fight fires and start work as soon as the bombers left. The work force was put under the SS, inspiring heroic efforts by the German workers and savage measures against the slave laborers. Nevertheless, it was harder to rebuild as attack succeeded attack. After each blow recuperation took longer, and each time production fell short of the previous peak. The overall structures of the plants were weakened; strained pipes would leak even after distant explosions. In August the Germans began cannibalizing machinery from plants deemed irreparable, to keep other plants going. They would have found things even harder if not for Allied mistakes. The Allies underestimated the German ability to recover and left too much time between attacks, so the plants usually managed to get in some production before the bombers returned. Overestimating the importance of the Fischer-Tropsch plants, they gave them a higher priority than they deserved. The mission plan- ners did not always choose aiming points best calculated to paralyze the plants, and the average bomb was too small to do much damage. The Americans rarely used bombs heavier than 500 pounds; 2,000 or 4,000 pounders (they could not carry the latter) would have caused more serious damage. RAF attacks were more damaging, since much bigger bombs were used and the attacks lasted longer; there was more chance for fires to spread before the emergency squads got to work. In 1943 the Germans had decided to move some lubricating oil refineries to Eastern Europe and to build small, dispersed refineries in the Balkans and Poland to replace lost capacity if Ploesti came under attack, but they had not carried out these plans. Elaborate new plans for underground plants and dispersed facilities in Germany itself were developed but could not be executed. Much  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 152 Decisive Offensives I: Oil of the existing and projected un