Fieseler plant and another factory at Kassel. Again, after a tough fight, Thunderbolts saved the bombers from heavier losses as they surprised the pursuing Germans. That ended Blitz Week. Although the weather was reasonably good the next day, after six big missions in a week, the Americans were in no shape to attack again. The men were exhausted; although it was midsummer, many had suf- fered frostbite, and anoxia when ice formed in oxygen tubes. Eaker had driven  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 94 The Abortive Offensive his men as far as they could take it, or farther; the men who had survived sus fered a high rate of mental breakdowns. Blitz Week had also been costly in other ways. The Eighth had lost 88 B-17s in action; their crews were now dead or prisoners. And 17 other B-17s were being scrapped; besides this, 10 P-47s and 2 B-26s had been lost in action or junked. Eaker's operational bomber strength had been reduced to under 200 planes. He had lost 8.5 percent of the planes that had actually attacked the targets. That was not a rate that could be stood for long. The Germans were improving their defensive methods. They were introduc ing 30 mm. cannon as well as rockets. The growing number of day fighters were spreading over all of Germany, including the previously almost undefended south Well stocked bases were everywhere, so that fighters could rearm and refuel and fly a second or even third sortie against deep-penetrating bombers.3 But Arnold would not tolerate waiting for full-length escort before striking again deep into Germany, and Eaker himself was unwilling to let German fighter production grow unmolested. Deep penetrations would go on, in the hope that careful planning would keep losses down until long-range fighters were available while the bombers struck critical targets. Meanwhile, B-24 units that Eaker had parted with earlier were trying for a "decisive" blow. PLOESTI On August 1, 1943, as the Eighth Air Force was preparing to attack Schwein- furt