s launched on Bremen. This was partly a precision attack; 5 Group was ordered to bomb the Focke-Wulf plant, while 102 bombers on loan from Coastal Command, which the Admiralty had finally allowed to participate, attacked a shipyard. The British lost 49 planes and did not consider the attack a success, although the Focke- Wulf plant was severely damaged.12 Bomber Command returned to normal operations. Harris had scored points with his superiors and the public and had revived faith in bombing, but he was in something of an impasse. The available techniques did not usually produce very successful area bombing; even within Gee range only cities on the coast or on a large, winding river made good targets, and only in good weather. Preci- sion results could rarely be attained, and only against light defenses. Losses had begun to rise again as the Germans added depth to the Kammhuber Line and more night fighters appeared. Some of Harris's group commanders favored frankly recognizing their limitations. Oxland of 1 Group, in particular, strongly urged conserving strength and mounting a few heavy attacks on fine nights against easy targets. He believed that more targets like the Renault plant-that is, ill defended and easily located precision targets valuable to the enemy-could be found. (Indeed, a return to the Renault plant itself would have been a good idea.) Harris rejected this as a policy of weakness. He tried some unusual tactics, even sending forces of four-engine bombers in daylight against shipyards on the German coast and on one occasion deep into France, to strike the Schneider armaments plant at Le Creusot. They used heavy clouds to hide from intercep- tion, planning to bomb at dusk and return in darkness. But clouds thick enough to offer protection usually prevented accurate bombing, while delays caused the bombers to reach their targets after sundown. For a time in late 1942 Harris even pondered returning to regular daylight operations, depending on the bomber'