ts, although numerous, tended to be grouped together would help the Allies, allowing a single mission to hit a whole set of targets without dangerously dispersing the fighter cover. Eighteen plants (six were rather small) using the Bergius hydrogenation pro- cess were the most important sources of fuel. They provided no less than 35 percent of all Germany's liquid fuels and 90 percent of its aviation gasoline. They also made treibgas, a mixture of propane and butane that was an important substitute for automotive gasoline. Merseburg-Leuna, near Leipzig, and Poelitz, near Stettin, were particularly important, each producing 600,000 tons a year; these two plants carried on nearly a third of the Bergius production. Merseburg- Leuna, in particular, would become all too familiar to the men of the Eighth Air Force. The Eighth attacked it no less than 20 times; Bomber Command, joining in later, mounted three missions against it. The hydrogenation plants 145 were not only important for fuel. They produced nitrogen, methanol, and other materials essential for making synthetic rubber, explosives, artificial fertilizers, and lesser chemical products. Nine Fischer-Tropsch plants (six in the Ruhr), were less significant, produc- ing low-grade fuels. More than 80 small benzol plants used a by-product of coke ovens in a third process to grind out modest quantities of low-grade truck fuel and small, but increasing, quantities of aviation gasoline. The Germans also made some fuel by distillation from coal tars. The importance and vulnerability of oil targets thus varied widely. The bigger Bergius plants were the core of the enemy's fuel supply. Fortunately they covered a large area (Merseburg-Leuna sprawled over 757 acres) and were easily found. Standing well outside built-up areas, they were easy to see even on H2S and H2X screens and were vulnerable to bomb damage. Natural oil refineries were smaller and less vulnerable, but were especially im- portant for some purposes. They made