l for two weeks, but the resulting attacks had little effect. The jets were less of a threat than they seemed. Jet production had been too long delayed; the planes were too cranky; and above all, the Germans were too short of trained pilots to regain control of the air with a jet fighter force. Given the implacable shortage of nickel and chromium that had delayed engine develop- ment and left the resulting engines unreliable, Milch and Messerschmitt may have been right, if for the wrong reasons, in their disinterest in jets. The Luft- waffe might have been wiser to concentrate on getting the most advanced possi- ble piston engine fighters (not necessarily the ones the Air Ministry preferred) at the earliest possible moment, for which the materials did exist. Had the Dornier 335 and Tank 152 been ready before the heavy losses of Big Week and the attacks on oil, they might have given the Allies far more trouble than many more jets could have a few months later. 18  10 Decisive Offensives II: Transportation, September 1944-V-E Day The Allied attacks on German oil production were depriving the German forces of more than fuel. The attacks were also crippling production of explosives, rubber, and artificial fertilizer, arguably spelling slow death for the whole German war effort. An attack on the German transportation system, begun gradually in the summer and fall, precipitated a quick collapse. COMMAND ARRANGEMENTS, PRIORITIES, AND STRATEGY Since April 1944 General Eisenhower had controlled the strategic bombers. The results could hardly have given even the most extreme air power advocate cause for complaint. Under Eisenhower's command, strategic bombing had finally achieved decisive results. But Portal disliked the arrangement. Early in September, as the British delegation was en route to a conference between Roosevelt and Churchill at Quebec, Portal urged the other British chiefs of staff to seek a partial reversion to the earlier command arrangements. He and General A