: Oil prevented them from getting jet fighters at an early date. But in fact the Germans enjoyed no lead in jet development. Their efforts were hampered mainly by fac- tors beyond their control, but their difficulties were exacerbated by a series of mistakes even more amazing than those usually blamed on Hitler. German jet development was one fiasco in which he played a relatively small part. The British, led by the genius of Sir Frank Whittle, were ahead of the Germans in the development of jets, while the Americans lagged far behind both. Britain and Germany produced operational jet fighters at about the same time in 1944. The British Meteor actually entered the combat a few days ahead of its German counterpart, the Messerschmitt 262. An impression to the contrary was fostered by the fact that the Meteor played a less prominent role in combat. British jets stayed at home to defend against the V-1s. Their activity over the Continent was limited to strafing, and they never shot down any manned aircraft. Much publicity was later given to the fact that the Germans flew their first experimental jet, the Heinkel 178, as early as 1939, while the first British jet. the E28/39, did not fly until the spring of 1941. But the Heinkel 178's powerplant proved an engineering dead end, while Whittle went straight to a workable turbojet. By 1944 British jet engines were more powerful and reliable than their German counterparts. The Meteor was inferior to the Me-262, not because of its engines, but because of the latter's swept wings. In view of the many com plaints later made by Germans about unnecessary delays in the development of their jet fighters, it is interesting to note that Whittle stoutly maintained that, with more backing, he could have had the Meteor, designed in 1940, in service by 1942.15 The Germans were ahead of the Allies in another aircraft development: the rocket fighter. But the Messerschmitt 163B rocket fighter, while a remarkable plane in many ways, was not a