ts. Its new directive emphasized attacks on German morale, alleging that the "morale of the civil population" and the "inland transportation system" were weak points. The former belief, at a time when Ger- many controlled the European mainland and was marching deep into the USSR. and when most Germans at home had hardly been touched by the war, was a remarkable piece of wishful thinking. Large railroad marshaling yards seemed to be the sole precise targets Bomber Command could hit, at least in moonlight. To smash the whole transport system was too big a task; the immediate aim was to isolate the Ruhr by bombing the nine major railroad centers linking it to the rest of Germany. British railroad experts thought that attacks on a feasible scale would wreck these targets. If possible, the Ems-Weser canals would be attacked and the Rhine mined. To cripple road transport, the main synthetic rubber plants at Hüls and Schkopau would be attacked. On dark nights the RAF would simply blast large industrial cities to demoralize people, hoping that some of the bombs would damage railroad facilities. Lord Cherwell, Churchill's clever if erratic scientific adviser, had initiated a more thorough inquiry into the accuracy of bombing that showed that this plan too was based on false premises. Even meaningful area bombing was not yet possible. In August 1941, D. M. Butt, a member of the War Cabinet secretariat, 31 analyzed over 600 photos taken by cameras aboard the bombers during June and July, in conjunction with operational reports. The results shocked even pessimists, revealing that Bomber Command's navigation, and not just its bomb aiming, was hopelessly off. Only a third of the crews who claimed to have at- tacked their targets had even gotten within five miles of them! Success varied greatly with the weather, the amount of moonlight, and the position of the target. As many as two-fifths of the bombers had come within five miles of their targets in attacks on the French ports, b