. It insisted on hitting the old ski sites, which it was known were not being used; the large sites, the purpose of which was still uncertain; and eight "storage sites" for V-1s, which the Germans had in fact abandoned in May in favor of three underground depots in caves and tunnels. Low-level attacks on the real launchers were neglected. Finally. 5 Group, using the new Tallboy deep-penetration bombs designed by Wallis. hit the underground storage depots and the large sites; the latter were aban- doned after these attacks. These may have been the most effective attacks against the V-weapons. Spaatz considered attacks on the launchers and large sites with conventional weapons a poor idea. He urged knocking out the power system in the Calais area, believing that this would paralyze both the large sites and the storage sites. and favored hitting the large sites with radio-controlled "war weary" heavy bombers, packed with ten tons of TNT or napalm. (Some of these missiles were finally sent against the large sites in early August, but by then the British had already dealt with them effectively.) Spaatz preferred to concentrate conven tional heavy bombers on gyrocompass plants in Germany and any large storage depots that could be identified in France. But he was largely overruled. Some attacks were made on targets believed to be connected with V-weapons in Germany itself, but these attacks were costly and had little effect. The V-1 was largely defeated by defensive measures. Many of the fastest fighters-notably Tempests, Meteor jets (see Chapter 9), and a whole wing of RAF Mustangs-were kept in England to stop the V-1s. Many of the V-Is that got through the fighters were shot down by skillfully redeployed antiaircraft guns, aided by effective new radars and gun directors and proximity-fuzed shells. Finally the armies overran the launching areas. The Nazis kept up a small-scale assault with air-launched V-1s fired by bombers; later, long-range V-1s were launched from the N