the Eighth had yet achieved); that it would be possible to mount five or six operation a month (which was overoptimistic in winter, at least); and that there would be an average attrition rate of 20 percent a month, it was estimated that the job could be done by a force of 2,965 heavy bombers, which should reach full strength on January 1, 1944. A third of the targets should be smashed by then; the rest should be dealt with in the first four months of 1944, making possible an invasion in the spring. The RAF was counted on as just a supporting force. Some of AWPD-42's emphases were echoed at the Anglo-American conference at Casablanca in early 1943. There, the Combined Chiefs of Staff stipulated that the aim of the strategic air offensive was to prepare and support an even- tual invasion; it would not be a substitute for it. The directive issued on January 21 reflected fear of the U-boats, which had led the Allied leaders to give the Battle of the Atlantic first charge on all resources, and the navies' demands that the strategic bombers help out in the war at sea. The directive to the Allied bomber forces in England stated that "Your primary object will be the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened." Within this framework, the primary objectives, "subject to the exigencies of weather and of tactical feasibility" were in order of priority: 1. Submarine construction yards 2. The aircraft industry 3. Oil plants 4. Other targets in enemy war industry.8 But the directive specifically stated that those priorities were not rigid; the submarine bases in France, and attacking Berlin, were also of "great importance."  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 78 The Americans & the Eighth Air Force It might be necessary to bomb northern Italy to support landings in the Mediter- ranean. (It had been decid