ed in a major battle over  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 114 The Struggle for Air Superiority Bremen. The P-51s and P-38s of the target-area escort stopped the German twin engine fighters from getting at the bombers, although three P-51s were lost, for 3 enemy planes downed. The Mustang still had some bugs in its engines and propellers. Its drop-tank sometimes failed to feed, and there was a shortage of spare parts. Its guns often jammed, especially when fired while the plane was in a tight turn. Nevertheless a new P-51 group, the 357th, would become operational in February, while the 4th Group was also converting to Mustangs. Along with the arrival of the P-51B, other factors were improving the position of VIIIth Fighter Command. Another P-38 group, the 20th, finally became ready while the P-47s received improved propellers, and water-injection systems for their engines. Plans were also afoot to extend the P-47's range. A bigger belly tank, carrying 165 gallons, gave it a radius of 425 miles, and there were plans to modify it so it could carry a 108-gallon drop-tank under each wing, providing a radius of 475 miles. (Later, in the Pacific, Thunderbolts flying to very distant targets carried a 310-gallon tank under one wing and a 165-gallon tank under the other, but such extravagant loads proved unnecessary in Europe.)5 The Mustang did not, by itself, as is sometimes supposed, save the Eighth Air Force from defeat or secure air superiority over Europe. In fact, the coming battles for the air over Germany were fought mostly by Thunderbolts. The ex tension of the P-47's range and the improvements to the P-38 would probably have secured the same result, albeit more slowly and at a higher cost in lives and equipment, even had the Mustang never been built. But the new plane was a fortunate gift from a combination of British-government and private in- itiative, even if the AAF was slow to use it. DAMAGE ASSESSMENT, 1943 Up to the end of 1943, the Allied bomber offensive