ery in the Ruhr. Otherwise it stuck to pounding away at the central German oil plants and the refineries in the Hamburg and Hannover areas. Three missions on February 24, March 5, and March 11, the last com- bined with an attack on the U-boat yards, left the great crude-oil refineries at Hamburg in no need of further attention. The largest remaining Bergius plants, at Merseburg-Leuna and Brux, were handled by Bomber Command; the Eighth planned one last mission to Merseburg on March 31, but it was aborted by weather and it was decided that it was not necessary to reschedule it. The Bergius and Fischer-Tropsch plants made 13,000 tons of fuel in February and 12,000 tons in March. Perhaps only 500 tons of aviation gasoline were pro- duced in February. Between the efforts of the two Allied air forces, most of the larger synthetic plants were shut by the end of February and the rest in March; only some benzol plants and coal-tar distillation units were still working as the Allied troops arrived. The Eighth Air Force hit its last oil production center on March 31, attacking a few storage depots thereafter. Bomber Command made one last attack on Lutzkendorf on April 8-9.16 Direct attacks on weapons production, although perhaps unnecessary, proved more effective than before. Small Eighth Air Force attacks on the main Ger- man explosives plants proved very effective. There was a concurrent attack on tank production, which was already disintegrating thanks to the transportation snarl. After an attack on the Tiger plant at Kassel on March 9, production there stopped, as did Panther tank production at Hannover after a mission there on March 14. Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force attacked U-boat yards and sub- marine bases to stop the new-type German submarines. The British found that Tallboys penetrated the bunkers protecting the U-boats, while Mosquitos dropped 4,000-pound bombs on construction slips. The main constraint on building new U-boats, however, was probably the t