ighth Air Force, unable to hit oil targets, sent 1,310 bombers to the marshalling yards at Magdeburg and Chemnitz, although much 179 of the force had to resort to attacks on small "targets of opportunity" in central Germany. On February 12 the Eighth decided to attack the Dresden marshall- ing yards on February 13; the RAF was planning to hit the city that night. Weather led the Eighth to postpone its attack until the 14th, after the RAF struck. As the experience of Hamburg should have shown, this was not a good idea. On the night of February 13-14, 244 Lancasters of 5 Group set out for Dresden. A second wave of 529 Lancasters from other groups followed, while 320 Halifaxes of 4 Group hit the oil plant at Böhlen. Harris ignored the emphasis of the January 31 directive on disrupting enemy transportation, or interpreted it with an odd twist of his own. He treated the Dresden operation as a conventional area attack on a residential and commer- cial area, albeit on a "virgin" target. Since Dresden had been bombed earlier only by small American forces aiming at the marshalling yards, there was plenty to burn. The force carried an unusually high proportion of incendiaries; three- fourths of the load consisted of firebombs. The British attacked the older part of the city, which did not contain any railroad stations and was far from the suburbs containing Dresden's not too important industries. Precisely because it was not very important, Dresden had lost most of its anti- aircraft guns, and the German night fighters were even weaker and more con- fused than usual. There was no interception. The weather was fine, and 5 Group efficiently used its standard visual marking technique. The second wave carried out a Newhaven attack under the direction of a master bomber; by the time it arrived, fires were already raging. A gigantic firestorm spread over eight square miles, with the same hideous results as in Hamburg in 1943. The last fires did not go out for a week. On February 14