owed little interest in extending the Spitfire's range. It was basically a short-range plane, but it could have been modified to go farther. The British ace and fighter leader, Wing Commander John Johnson, later wrote that "with a little foresight Spitfires could have fought well inside Germany and could have helped the Eighth in their great ven- ture."11 The Mark 8 Spitfire, which belatedly appeared in August 1943, had additional fuel tanks in its wings and a longer range, but it was never used in Northwest Europe. 12 The Eighth's slow start was inevitable. Many units were only partly trained. The pilots were inexperienced at flying in formation at high altitudes. Many radio operators could not send or receive code. Many gunners were untrained; some had never even fired their weapons. There were few target-towing planes for gunnery practice. Col. Curtis Le May, the admittedly hard-to-please com- mander of the 305th Bomb Group, who was about to start the meteoric rise that made him commander of the B-29 force in the Pacific in 1945, deemed that even the Eighth's navigation was inadequate. Men whose experience was in flying over the American West, where isolated buildings and railroad lines provided clear checkpoints, needed time to get used to the crowded European countryside. Claims of bombing success and claims of enemy planes shot down were not very accurate; Eaker and other senior officers put a good face on things so Eighth would get the support it needed. After the first missions, however, Eaker was not fully satisfied with his equipment. He urged improvements in the B-17 and its accessories, seeking a better oxygen system and oxygen masks (they would never be entirely satisfactory), better heating arrangements, bulletproof glass for the cockpit side win- dows, backup power systems for the turrets, and replacement of some turret- mounted .50s with 20 mm. cannon-perhaps an early sign of doubt that the B-17, in its existing form, was really the self-defending bo