tack at night, and tailoring the target list to suit Bomber Command's limitations, they could have concentrated against industry more than they did. Even in 1942 precision attack was possible against a few targets, as the attack on the Renault plant showed. Some RAF officers, like Oxland, believed that similar targets could have been found. The introduction of Oboe in 1943 made possible attacks on still other very large industrial plants inside its range. The British could also have directed area attacks, wherever possible, against cities where industrial installations were relatively concentrated, as the Americans did on their radar bombing mission in 1943-1944. The plants and industrial areas suited for such attacks were few and would have offered only a limited alternative to conventional area attacks on primarily nonindustrial areas. The additional damage to the German war effort would probably still have been marginal, but especially if coupled with a policy of selective area attack against towns associated with a particular industry, even when the industrial plants themselves could not be hit, the maximum possible concentration against in- dustry would probably have hurt the Nazis worse in 1942 and 1943 than the policy of nearly "pure" general area attack that was followed. Bomber Command's great mistake was the failure to switch to precision bomb- ing when that finally became possible against most targets in the latter part of 1943, and Harris's insistence on continuing the area attacks, whenever he could get away with them, right up to the war's end. The failure to pursue the oil offensive properly in the summer and fall of 1944, and the destruction of Dresden, were only the last and most obvious consequences of his fanaticism. But the British had missed important opportunities earlier. Most notable of these was the failure to start the oil offensive sooner and the delay in attacking the critical and extremely vulnerable bottleneck in tank engine and transmi