not always prevent terrible losses to an individual bomber group-attacks on oil objectives sometimes failed. On June 24 an attack by 340 B-17s on a refinery at Bremen misfired when clouds and smoke screens hid the target. On June 29 the Eighth ended the month with a major mission against aircraft and V-1 plants, and a Bergius plant at Böhlen. But only 81 B-17s of the 179 assigned to Böhlen reached the target; most of the force went after the plane and missile plants. The direc- tors of the air offensive did not yet see that attacks on aircraft plants, or at least those building piston-engine planes, were superfluous if German fuel produc- tion was crippled.8 GERMAN COUNTERMEASURES As yet the Eighth Air Force had only devoted sporadic efforts to oil, and Bomber Command had mounted just one really effective mission, but oil pro- duction had received a terrific blow. The attacks on oil targets had reduced the more clever Nazis to something close to panic. Speer's only consolation was that he detected a slackening of effort in late June. On June 30 he reported that fuel production within the Reich had fallen drastically. Automotive gasoline pro- duction had fallen from 125,000 tons in April to 70,400 tons in June; diesel fuel, from 88,900 tons to 66,300 tons; treibgas, from 37,600 tons to 10,400 tons. He warned Hitler that aviation gasoline production had been reduced by up to 90 percent by June 22. "If it is not possible for us to protect these plants we will be forced to curtail the flow of supplies to the Army in September, which will mean that from that time on there will be a terrible bottleneck which may lead to the most tragic consequences."9 Fuel consumption had to be economized, and defenses strengthened. On May 30, following the precedents set during the ball bearings and aircraft campaigns, Speer had appointed Edmund Geilenberg as commissioner-general for emergency measures. Geilenberg had been an able superintendent of weapons production; if he proved less s