forced the movement of some production facilities; other area attacks reduced production. The first 2,000 V-1's built were faulty, and were scrapped. The attacks on the French railroads also slowed preparations for the V-1 offensive. The Allies were content with having prevented German secret weapons from interfering with the invasion, although as it turned out, neither the V-1 nor the V.2 would have been accurate enough to effectively attack the ports from which the invasion was mounted. The Allies thought the danger over, when the modified sites opened fire on London on June 12. Although not a major threat to the war effort, the V-1s killed many civilians, and as repeatedly noted earlier, no government is likely to tolerate attacks on its capital without reacting violently, whatever the military wisdom of the attacks or the counteraction. The British were upset; they had hardly expected renewed  138 The Strategic Bombing of Germany Strategic Air Offensive/The Normandy Invasion attacks on Britain at this late date. There was wild talk of using gas against the launching sites or even of killing German civilians in reprisal. Eisenhower agreed to a major offensive against V-weapons sites. On June 16 he gave the V-weapons campaign higher priority than anything but the immediate requirements of the battle in France. In practice, it received higher priority than attacks on the French transportation system, dumps, and airfields. The Eighth Air Force and Bomber Command struck launchers and supposed storage facilities. An enormous effort was expended on V-weapons targets in the summer of 1944, including over a quarter of the tonnage of bombs dropped by the Eighth Air Force and Bomber Command in July and August. But much of this effort was misdirected by the British Air Ministry. It insisted on hitting the old ski sites, which it was known were not being used; the large sites, the purpose of which was still uncertain; and eight "storage sites" for V-1s, which the Germans had