ak. The RAF wrongly ascribed all the losses to flak. Inability to find the German fleet delayed a decisive test until December, when only the better armed, more rugged Wellingtons were used. On December 3. twenty-four Wellingtons attacked German warships near Heligoland, without success. German fighters approached the tight British formation cautiously, fir- ing only from long range. The Wellingtons all got home, suffering only some damage to flak. On December 14, twelve Wellingtons patrolling off the Ger- man coast ran into fighters. This time the German pilots meant business; five Wellingtons went down and another crashed on landing. The planes that returned claimed to have shot down one German fighter. The RAF again wrongly attributed most or all of its losses to flak. On December 18, twenty-four Well- ingtons went out. Two turned back; the Germans detected the rest on radar well out to sea, but took time to assemble their fighters. In earlier encounters the Germans had noted that the Wellingtons' rear turrets were dangerous but that their traverse was limited; there was nothing to oppose a side or beam at- tack. The Germans intercepted too late to cause much trouble before the British started bomb runs on a battleship and a cruiser. But the British, following orders not to bomb if there was any danger of hitting the shore, did not drop their bombs! Then the German fighters closed in. Only ten Wellingtons returned home; two German fighters went down. There was no doubt, this time, that fighters had caused the terrible losses. If this episode was typical, daylight attacks on inland German targets without escort would be suicidal. There was a spate of rationalizing by some senior of- ficers. Some blamed the disaster on a failure to keep formation under fire. Others argued that modest alterations to the bombers would make all the difference They needed self-sealing fuel tanks (armor to protect the wing tanks was already being fitted) and guns to cover the side appro