er- sionary routing had fooled the Germans about the Americans' objective for a time. The interception was determined; even the single-engine fighters pursued the withdrawing Americans well out to sea. In all, 19 B-17s went down, and another went to the scrap heap. The Germans were known to have lost at least 6 fighters. A return to Hamburg the next day, and a blow against rubber and tire plants at Hannover, proved costly but successful, although smoke still handi- capped the attackers at Hamburg. A small force of only 92 planes, of which 16 were lost, left the Hannover plants burning furiously. Ironically, while the lack of close cooperation with the RAF at the strategic level was bad, too-close cooperation at the tactical level had proven harmful. After a day's rest, the Eighth launched its deepest penetration yet. Despite bad weather, it struck the Fieseler works at Kassel and a plant building FW-190s at Oscherleben, just 90 miles from Berlin. Only 28 planes managed to reach Oschersleben and find a hole through the clouds, but they cost the Germans four weeks' production there-a total of 50 FW-190s. The price was heavy losses in a terrific air battle, despite the first use of drop-tanks by Thunderbolts. Meeting the withdrawing Fortresses, the P-47s drove off the pursuing German fighters. The Germans had scored an ominous success. For the first time, they scored hits with new 210 mm. air-to-air rockets. These clumsy spin-stabilized missiles, fired out of bulky tubes, were not too accurate, but they outranged the bombers' guns. A single hit could destroy a bomber. On July 29 the bombers reverted to coastal targets, successfully striking Kiel and the Heinkel plant at Warnemunde, which was building FW-190s. On July 30 the Eighth returned with one massed force to hit the Fieseler plant and another factory at Kassel. Again, after a tough fight, Thunderbolts saved the bombers from heavier losses as they surprised the pursuing Germans. That ended Blitz Week. Although the