great importance."  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 78 The Americans & the Eighth Air Force It might be necessary to bomb northern Italy to support landings in the Mediter- ranean. (It had been decided that after the conquest of North Africa the Allies would take Sicily, at least, as part of an effort to knock Italy out of the war.) The bomber commanders were to take every opportunity to attack Germany by day, keep up the pressure on German morale, impose heavy losses on the German day fighter force, and contain German fighter strength away from the Russian and Mediterranean theaters. Portal was responsible for the "strategical direction" of the American bombers as well as his own, but Eaker would decide their tactics and techniques. General Marshall had insisted on this, foreclosing any possibility that the British would order Eaker to switch to night attacks.9 The Casablanca directive was not a masterpiece of clarity. It contained so many qualifications that it did not clearly settle what targets even the Americans would attack. It left Harris many loopholes to continue a practically independent course of general area attack against Germany; he freely misquoted the directive to further strengthen his position. Many later criticized the Allies for pursuing the strategic air offensive and trying to counter the U-boats by ineffectively bombing bases and construction yards They rightly insisted that it would have been wiser to send more four-engine bombers to escort duty in the Atlantic, where they could have achieved more at that time than by bombing Germany. Converted Liberators or similar planes could have quickly closed the "air gap" in mid-Atlantic, where the U-boats were scoring their successes. This criticism is correct, but the RAF and the AAF were not immediately responsible for the failure to deal with the U-boats. To be sure only a few more Liberators were needed to close the gap, as became clear when FDR finally intervened on March 18 to secure more Unite