British estimated that for all three nights, just 27 planes dropped their loads within three miles of the aiming point, while losses averaged an unbearable 7.2 percent. Berlin was heavily defended, and so big and spread out, with so few distinct landmarks, that its picture on an H2S screen was incomprehensible. And for the last 100 miles of the long trip to Berlin, it was hard to dupe the enemy into thinking that the bombers were going elsewhere. So Harris decided to wait, evidently hoping a few months would make Bomber Command readier to deal with Berlin. By November he would have three-centimeter H2S and some new electronic countermeasures and other devices to support the bombers. In the meantime he concentrated on the "road to Berlin," striking targets in central and southern Germany. The attacks mostly depended on H2S and did not cause destruction comparable to that in- flicted earlier. One attack, on Kassel, set off a firestorm, killing 5,200 people. British losses remained fairly low; in the period of July 24-November 18 they lost 695 planes, not counting planes that crashed in England or were scrapped after return, a loss rate of 4.1 percent.18 THE DEFENSES The bombers faced a growing threat from German fighters, although they coped with the Wild Sows, a tactic the Germans abandoned when too many poorly trained pilots crashed trying to land at night. The regular night fighters, using Tame Sow tactics, were the real threat. The Germans largely neutralized Window by steering the fighters to the bomber stream farther from the target areas. Some skilled radar operators could tell the difference between Window and the bombers on the edges of the bomber stream; finally, the Germans modified the Wurzburg radar to use the Doppler effect to distinguish the slow- moving Window from the bombers. In October they introduced SN-2, a 3.7-meter airborne radar immune to Window, with a longer range than Lichtenstein. Ground and airborne detectors for H2S appeared, along with F