tart until July 1943. They would culminate in an all-out attack from April to September 1944. The ultimate offensive force  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 74 The Americans & the Eighth Air Force would consist of 98 groups of bombers (6,834 planes.) Medium and heavy bombers would be based in Britain, while very heavy groups, equipped with B-29s and B-32s, currently under development, would be split between Britain and the Suez area. Very-long-range bombers, equipped with the newly designed B-36, would be based in Newfoundland, Greenland, or sub-Saharan Africa. This was based on a wild underestimate of how long it would take to develop the B-36 (it only became fully operational in 1951) and a somewhat optimistic idea of how long it would take to produce the B-29 and B-32. The bombers would seek to knock out Germany's electric power and transpor- tation systems and petroleum industry; they would also attack aircraft and light. metals plants to aid the air offensive. AWPD-1 assumed that the bombers could defend themselves, although escort was desirable. But it envisaged a heavily armed bomber-type plane in the role of escort, rather than a fighter; this concept led to the development of the YB-40, a modified B-17. Despite this, and its mistaken assumptions about aircraft development and overoptimism about bombing accuracy, AWPD-1 was a remarkably farsighted scheme. Its ideas about the proper target systems proved basically sound, and better founded than some notions fashionable later in the war. General Marshall and Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson were rightly impressed. After its accep- tance, there was no doubt that a strategic air offensive would be a major part of the war.3 After Pearl Harbor, Churchill and Roosevelt and their military chiefs met in Washington. They created the Combined Chiefs of Staff, to settle issues of strategy and policy. Churchill learned that the Americans still aimed to defeat Germany first and that they shared his desire to send heavy b