role in the Allied campaign against German submarines. They actually destroyed only half a dozen U-boats, but proved very effective at spotting them for surface escort ships and forcing them to submerge. Although many generals and admirals still stubbornly ignored or minimized its importance, there was no reason to doubt, when World War I ended, that tac- tical airpower would be a major factor in future wars.1 Whether that would be true of strategic air warfare was far less certain, although strategic bombing had already been tried out on a small scale, first by the Germans, then by the Allies. Oddly, as airplanes improved, strategic bombing did not develop as an exten- sion of tactical air operations, but in parallel with them. Odder still, for a con- siderable time the Germans' main "strategic bomber" was the airplane's fragile predecessor, the dirigible airship. Despite the oddities of this practice and its small scale, the course of the not very effective German strategic bombing cam- paign against Britain foreshadowed that of some later strategic air campaigns. During 1914 German single-engine planes crossed the English Channel to bomb British coastal targets. But the Germans had something more powerful than the primitive planes used in these first attacks; the rigid airship or Zeppelin. The Zeppelin was bigger and more complex than the blimp ("nonrigid airship") familiar to modern Americans, which is just a powered balloon, a single large gasbag. The Zeppelin had a hull with a duralumin framework, and numerous separate gas cells. It had great lifting capacity; the ultimate war Zeppelin of the L30 class of 1916 hauled nearly five tons of bombs, a load not equalled by planes until the 1940s. The German people strongly admired Count von Zeppelin and regarded his ships as a war-winning device, and from the start of the war they, and the Ger- man admiralty, clamored for attacks on Britain. But the Kaiser reluctantly authorized an offensive against Britain only in J