e was a fortunate gift from a combination of British-government and private in- itiative, even if the AAF was slow to use it. DAMAGE ASSESSMENT, 1943 Up to the end of 1943, the Allied bomber offensive, or perhaps "offensives" would be more accurate-had not done fatal or crippling damage to the Nazi war economy. The weight of attack had not been great enough. Lack of enough bombers; the British concentration on general area attack (a type of offensive that at any rate had been largely unavoidable until the latter half of 1943); er- ratic target selection; and the lack of escort for repeated attacks on targets deep in Germany had all contributed to this unsatisfactory result. The Allies had simply not hit any critical point in the enemy war effort hard enough. They had not prevented a massive rise in Nazi war production; they had merely made the rise smaller than it would have been otherwise. Germany's failure to mobilize fully for war had left an unused cushion of machinery and manpower that was only now being rationally harnessed to the war effort. This achievement was largely due to Albert Speer. Hitler's appoint- ment of his architect as minister of armaments production in February 1942. to succeed Fritz Todt, who had been killed in an air crash, had seemed to be a frivolous action, but it greatly prolonged the life of the Nazi regime. The jungle 115 of competing authorities and personal rivalries of the Nazi leaders was not destroyed but was tamed; Speer could count on the backing of Hitler and, for a time, Joseph Goebbels, one of the smarter Nazi leaders. Following policies originated by Todt, Speer revitalized an already existing system of committees and directorates that had been set up to organize German industry for the war effort, and he established a centralized planning apparatus. But he avoided the bureaucratic excesses of most "planned" economies and did not suppose that he could control everything that went on in a complex in- dustrial economy. Instead