as well. No planes were lost. On the return trip from North Africa, the force attacked an Italian Naval base, but the master bomber technique failed because of radio interference. Jones later wrote, "Had we realized the improvement in our bombing technique we might have abandoned area bombing earlier, or at least put more effort into precision attacks at night." Friedrichshafen had established a precedent. "Here we used the Master Bomber technique, and when it was combined with Oboe pathfind- ing, precision attack became distinctly feasible. Even without Oboe at Friedrich shafen, the random bombing error was no more than 400 yards."9 But Harris showed little interest in exploring these possibilities. The Master Bomber technique was used only on a few more attacks in 1943, then set aside until 1944. A month after Friedrichshafen, on July 15-16, an attack on a Peugeot factory at Montbéliard in France, by 165 Halifaxes using the standard Newhaven technique, misfired despite being conducted at low level and in good visibility.10 Attempts at precision bombing were still having erratic results, if only because of poor tactics. Harris showed little interest in refining those tactics, as Bomber Command readied the most horrible of all area attacks. 59 THE BATTLE OF HAMBURG At least since May, Harris had planned to follow the Battle of the Ruhr with a series of attacks on Hamburg, Germany's second biggest city and Europe's largest port. Its industries were a major factor in German war production and included aircraft plants, a variety of machinery plants, and shipyards. The lat- ter produced more than a third of all the U-boats built in Germany during the war. Hamburg also had the largest concentration of crude-oil refineries in the Reich (28 percent of German production). Moreover, three large refineries there made vital lubricants. The enemy oil industry as a whole was not yet a ripe target. The Americans did not yet have enough bombers to deal with the many targets involv