ilding of heavy bombers, as is sometimes said; efforts to develop them went on. The Germans even built a prototype of the Messerschmitt 264, intended to bomb the United States from bases in the Azores. But Wever's death did remove some of the impetus for such aircraft. Hitler himself assumed that the Luftwaffe's medium bombers had sufficient striking power for any task that was liable to be encountered in the conquest of Europe and Asia. General Albert Kesselring, Wever's successor, was more interested in the ground support role. Wever's death was fortunate for the Allies, for none of his successors were so capable, and none got along well with Milch. Goering deliberately undercut Milch, whose talents focused on production rather than on the promotion of technical innovations, by building up the influence of General Ernst Udet, another famous airman, who, like Goering, was a dilet- tante in technical matters and a poor manager. The Luftwaffe's technical develop- ment became disorganized, and the Air Ministry became a bureaucratic jungle. Udet had no less than 24 departments reporting to him. Germany's aircraft industry and fuel supply may have been unequal to the task of building and flying a fleet of four-engine bombers even had suitable engines been developed, but technical blunders ended any chance there had been for a workable heavy bomber. The designers of the Heinkel 177, intended to succeed the Dornier 19 and Junkers 89, tried to overcome the engine problem in a novel way. Lacking engines with the desired horsepower, they decided to reduce the drag that would be produced by four separate engine nacelles by coupling two engines together in the same nacelle to drive a single propeller. But this produced dreadful mechanical problems and many fires. The logical solution, going to four separate engines, was foreclosed by the development of a mania for dive- bombing, promoted by Udet. The Luftwaffe's best medium bomber, the Junkers 88, had unexpectedly proven an ef