any in the Air Ministry never doubted that there were bottlenecks in the enemy economy, even if they were not immediately vulnerable. Indeed, the notion, im- plicit in Harris's view, that no part of the enemy structure was more important or more vulnerable than any other should have been self-evidently absurd. It is safe to say that Harris himself must have regarded the German attack on the Short aircraft factory in 1940, which had denied the RAF nearly 200 Stirlings, as far more damaging than any number of bombs dropped on houses in London. The Ministry of Economic Warfare, in particular, continued seeking bottle- necks in the enemy war effort. That an attack on oil would be a decisive blow was still generally accepted; Secretary of State for Air Sir Archibald Sinclair and Maurice Hankey, who headed the government's committee on oil matters tried to revive attacks on it in 1942. But Portal pointed out that, apart from Gee's inadequacy, only a small part of oil production lay within its range, while an attack on Germany's main natural oil source at Ploesti, in Romania, was not practical either. Accuracy and range problems apart, oil was just too big a target system; there were too many targets for the available bomber force The hunt went on for smaller target systems, where a critical item was made in only a few plants. During 1941 the Ministry of Economic Warfare had realiz ed that the enemy was dependent on ball bearings, production of which was overwhelmingly concentrated at Schweinfurt. Synthetic rubber production was also vital, and a concentrated target. Even Harris showed interest in attacking Schweinfurt. But by August 1942 the Air Staff concluded that an attack on it would need a force of 500 bombers, more than Bomber Command's normal strength at this time, and a system of special ground markers that must be laid by British agents on the spot. Later, Harris talked of a low-level attack in moonlight but did nothing about it. Although some British officials r