e might be to attack air- craft assembly plants, while in the long run, strategic bombing might so disrupt the enemy as to destroy his will to resist independent of other military opera- tions. Although it was occasionally questioned, there was a growing assump- tion that a properly constituted bomber formation could defend itself against interceptors. The assumption seemed necessary, because officers associated with fighter aircraft, as well as the bomber advocates, thought that "pursuit" planes could not have enough range to accompany bombers to distant targets. Even fighter advocates like Captain Claire Chennault, while deriding the self-defending bomber, did not believe in escort. The question of what would happen if the daylight bomber could not defend itself was not really faced; some suggested that in that case night operations would be undertaken. But the self-defending bomber concept and the related premise that fighters could never attain the range of bombers hardened into dogma. This was a near fatal flaw in the work of men otherwise brilliant and farseeing. The Tactical School settled on a doctrine calling for high-level attacks by the largest possible formations of bombers, aimed at disrupting what was believed to be the delicately balanced, complex fabric of a modern industrial economy. Given the range limitations of bombers in the foreseeable future, this meant that an offensive against any likely enemy must be based overseas. The United States would require allies to supply bases. So, although Army air power ad- vocates often argued that an invasion of the United States could be defeated by land-based aircraft alone, their ideas were nevertheless incompatible with the military premises of isolationism. During the early 1930s the Tactical School refined its ideas about the proper targets for an air offensive, stressing the enemy's electric power plants, oil in- dustry, and aircraft production. Unlike the RAF, it carefully studied the prob- lems of bom