ESIGNED Ordered in June 1940 and first flown in September 1941, the B-17E was really a new plane, the first model of the armadas the AAF was to send over Ger- many, in which hundreds of thousands of Americans would fight. It had armor. self-sealing tanks, tail guns, power turrets with twin .50-caliber guns behind the cockpit and in the belly, and better fields of fire for the older gun positions Installing tail guns required a completely redesigned tail, and the new tail made the plane more stable. The B-17E was a feat of engineering. Although it had the same engines as the B-17D, it was just as fast, despite greater weight and the drag of the gun turrets. It had two serious faults. The original belly turret. a remote-controlled device, never worked right and was later replaced by a man- ned "ball" turret when the Japanese showed its weakness. And the B-17E was poorly protected against head-on attacks. It had just a single hand-held .30-caliber gun in the nose, while all other gun positions held .50s. When B-17Es en- countered the Japanese in early 1942, the crews hastily replaced the .30 with a .50, and often a pair of .50s. In Britain, crews would mount four and even five .50s in the nose, and that would still not be enough. The B-17F, which began coming off the assembly lines in April 1942, looked much like the E. Its first versions had even less firepower in the nose and were hastily modified in the field. Later B-17Fs had built-in mounts for "cheek" guns on both sides of the Plexiglas nose, as well as at least two guns firing right through the nose, and improved engines. The B-17F series had additional fuel tanks in the wings-"Tokyo tanks"-which unfortunately proved very vulnerable, and new self-sealing oil tanks, as well as broader, "paddle-blade" propellers. One fault of the B-17 was inherent in its basic layout. For lack of space, not lifting ability, no Fortress could take anything larger than a 2,000-pound bomb in its bomb bay. The B-17F had external racks