or just behind the lines. They only carried out one at- tack on the railroads. But Mitchell, Foulois, and others were impressed by Gor- rell. Unlike the British, they did not feel compelled to exaggerate the effect of bombing in World War I, but looked forward to further technical advances. Mitchell became the chief prophet of air power. His ideas revolved around the central importance of strategic bombing, although they were not limited to it. Some of his other views led to a clash with the Navy. He insisted that bombs and air-dropped torpedoes could sink any surface ship and that airpower alone could defend the United States against invasion. He seemed to prove this in 1921, when seven bombers sank the German battleship Ostfriesland. Die-hard battleship men, who dominated the Navy until 1941, argued that Ostfriesland and the two U.S. battleships Mitchell's men sank in 1923 had been unmanned anchored hulks. Things would be different against ships able to maneuver and shoot back. That was not a convincing reply; even in 1921 it should have been obvious that the striking power of planes would increase more than the ability of ships to defend themselves or survive being hit. But Mitchell, who at first had conceded the value of aircraft carriers and submarines, foolishly antagonized the whole Navy by asserting that land-based planes would render them un- necessary too. He also assumed (although he was not dogmatic about this) that unspecialized high-level bombers could deal with moving ships, a belief inherited by the Army Air Force. Experience in World War II showed that he was wrong; attacking ships at sea was a specialized business requiring dive-bombing, low- level attack, or torpedoes. But the focus of Mitchell's thought was offensive. An air force must defeat the opposing air force to win control of the air; then it should strike at produc- tion and transportation centers. The bomber was the primary instrument of air power; Mitchell thought that a few bombs would