alloys were small, and in 1939-1941 the Nazis were lucky to be able to increase them by trade with the USSR and by conquest. The synthetics plants were concentrated, and vulnerable to air attack, although they would have been hard to disperse even if the Nazis had wanted to do so. But certain industries directly related to weapons production were carefully dispersed and protected. Aluminum, air- craft, and ammunition production was vastly expanded in the 1930s. The govern- ment encouraged their dispersal to areas of the country far from the Western frontiers. Particular care was taken with the aircraft plants. New ones were built in open country, outside cities, and well spread out in a number of buildings, all very strongly constructed. Most of the aircraft production processes were duplicated. And if the factories were damaged, the Germans were in a good position to repair them. Germany's machine-tool industry was lavishly equipped, and so was its transportation system. The only weak spot, perhaps, was a strained electrical power system. Otherwise, there were few weak points in the German war economy, and they were not obvious. 16 2 The Failure of Bomber Command, 1939-1941 Since at least some of Bomber Command's limitations were generally understood, the British government welcomed President Franklin D. Roosevelt's request on September 1, 1939, that the belligerents refrain from an unrestricted air war that would endanger civilians. This was interpreted as excluding almost any attacks on industrial targets located in or near cities. The Nazis also professed to welcome Roosevelt's appeal. The French favored "restraint" even if the Germans launched a major offensive in the West, lest their poorly defended industry suffer devastation by the Luftwaffe, but the British disagreed. The British limited their air effort against Germany to attacks on the German navy and to dropping propaganda leaflets on German cities. The Allies would have been well advised to invade the R