e reached the Ploesti area at dawn, only to find it blanketed by cloud. They bombed on "estimated time of arrival" over the Astra Romana refinery, the biggest in Europe, doing no damage, and landed all over the Mid- dle East. One plane was lost in a crash, and four others were interned in Turkey. This first blow by U.S. air forces against the European Axis preceded the Eighth Air Force's first strike by several weeks. The results did not encourage a return to Ploesti, but the force became the nucleus of the United States Ninth Air Force. It operated as a small tactical air force in the North African and Sicilian cam- paigns, supporting the British advance from Egypt in the same way the Twelfth Air Force supported Eisenhower's advance from the west. The Ninth finally acquired two B-24 groups, which bombed airfields, ships, and transportation targets. Like the heavy bombers of the Twelfth, they made an important con- tribution but played no part in the strategic air campaign proper.4 The looming end of the North African campaign, and the establishment of a heavy bomber force on bases in Libya, revived the prospect of an attack on Ploesti. It was discussed by the Combined Chiefs of Staff at Casablanca. Ploesti was a tough target; the major refineries were widely dispersed. In March Col. Jacob Smart, of General Arnold's advisory council, suggested a low-level attack by 200 planes based in Libya. This would allow great accuracy against the most vital points in the refineries and, it was hoped, would let the attackers, main- taining radio silence, reach Ploesti unobserved. The Balkans were primitive and spottily occupied, and air defenses, at least outside Ploesti, were weak. The enemy would not expect such a deep penetration. Hugging the ground, the bombers would offer only fleeting targets to enemy flak, and the usual fighter tactics would be ineffective. This scheme did not arouse universal enthusiasm, but it gradually edged out a rival plan for a high-level attack fro