any Allied pilots, and a mass of poorly trained new men, who rarely survived for long. To the end the Luftwaffe had plenty of planes, but on the increasingly rare occasions when it came up to fight, it stood little chance of success. 18 Even after World War II, air combat, or at least fighter-versus-fighter combat, retained, for some, an aura of chivalry. Even many people who had no use for such ideas tended to see it as a relatively impersonal fight of machine versus machine. Fighter pilots tended to think of themselves as shooting at another plane, not at another man, and in the Western world, unlike the Japanese, most of them followed an unwritten law against firing at parachutes. But in blunt fact, victory over an opposing air force was gained by killing the opposing pilots. As General Sherman once said, "War is cruelty, and you cannot refine it."19  8 The Strategic Air Offensive and the Normandy Invasion, February-June 1944 The late winter and spring of 1944 was crowded with decisions and events powerfully affecting the strategic air offensive against Germany. The Americans, now supported by Bomber Command, had continued to attack the German aircraft and ball bearings industry and had won control of the air over Europe. In April and May they started a decisive offensive against enemy oil production, despite command changes and the diversion of much of the air effort to preparations for the invasion of France. All along, the aim of the strategic air offensive had been to pave the way for an invasion, but now it shifted to actions that promised a quick pay-off that would help the coming campaign. It did not change entirely, because General Eisenhower reposed great trust in Spaatz, accepting his suggestion that an offensive against enemy oil should begin in the midst of the preparations for D-Day. Nevertheless, there was a considerable reorientation of the strategic bombing effort, to attacks on airfields, V-weapon sites, and the railroad system in France and Belg