to the Bergius plants and to crude-oil refineries. Target selec- tion was now aided by specific information from decoded signals, giving details of damage to some targets. There was encouraging news of German worries: on August 12 the Allies learned that two days earlier the Luftwaffe had cur- tailed all but "absolutely essential" operational activity.11 The bombers continued to hit oil targets, but while oil had priority, it was not the only target attacked. The Fifteenth Air Force, while hacking away at Ploesti and starting attacks on refineries at Vienna and Budapest, also devoted much effort to aircraft plants and railroad targets in Austria, Hungary, and the Balkans; support of the Soviet advance was the main aim of the railroad attacks. The Eighth Air Force, for its part, hit aircraft, V-weapons, and tank plants in Ger- many as well as providing support for the armies. On July 7 the Eighth and Fif- teenth together mounted a huge attack on the oil plants. While 1,129 heavy bombers, escorted by 756 fighters, went to Merseburg-Leuna, Bohlen, and Lutzen- dorf in central Germany, as well as aircraft and ball bearings plants, the Fifteenth sent almost as big a force to the Silesian oil plants. Despite having transferred massive numbers of fighters to France, the Germans intercepted both forces strongly. The Eighth alone lost 37 bombers and 6 fighters over Germany; another 3 bombers and 1 fighter were junked after return. Most of the bombers were lost when a Stürmgruppe hit Liberators of the 2nd Division en route to German 153 aircraft plants; a whole squadron of the Liberators was shot down. But as on every later occasion on which the Luftwaffe tried all-out interception of a strategic mission, it suffered much heavier losses than it inflicted. For the next two months, although there was growing worry about jet and rocket fighters, which had yet to engage in serious combat, opposition from conventional planes was ragged, at least for the Eighth Air Force. The Fiftee