and a renewed bomber offensive against London, the Little Blitz.8 COMMAND ARRANGEMENTS AND STRATEGY, 1943-1944 The looming invasion of France, American dissatisfaction with the course of the strategic air offensive, and the need to coordinate the heavy bomber forces. now striking from Italy as well as from England, forced changes in the command arrangements and strategy governing the bomber effort. To control the Allied Expeditionary Air Forces, which was the name of the tactical air operations for Operation Overlord, a headquarters was activated on 117 November 25. Its commander, Air Marshal Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory, was disliked and distrusted by many British officers, and by most Americans other than Eisenhower. Leigh-Mallory would control the British Second Tactical and U.S. Ninth air forces. His precise authority beyond that, however, was not absolutely defined. American officers feared that Leigh-Mallory would intrude on strategic opera- tions excessively. They wanted an inter-Allied headquarters, to control all strategic air forces operating against Germany, including RAF Bomber Com- mand, an idea the British opposed. To coordinate their own operations and limit Leigh-Mallory's influence, the Americans formed the U.S. Strategic Air Forces in Europe (USSTAF) on January 1. This was actually the old Eighth Air Force headquarters, renamed and put under General Spaatz, and it con- trolled the Eighth and Fifteen air forces. VIIIth Bomber Command disappeared; its headquarters became the new headquarters of the Eighth Air Force, under General Doolittle, a man whose contribution to the development of aviation would be hard to exaggerate. Gen. Nathan Twining took over the Fifteenth. Eaker went to the Mediterranean to head the newly established Mediterranean Allied Air Forces. He and others considered this a sort of demotion, but it is now known that Eaker's transfer was instigated by Eisenhower. He had nothing against Eaker, but preferred the air commanders who had s