proximity-fuzed shells. Finally the armies overran the launching areas. The Nazis kept up a small-scale assault with air-launched V-1s fired by bombers; later, long-range V-1s were launched from the Netherlands. Meanwhile, the Germans fired older-model V-1s at the port of Antwerp and some other target on the Continent, hoping to interfere with Allied supplies. These killed many Belgians, but did the Allied war effort little harm. The main V-1 offensive had hardly stopped when V-2 attacks on London began on September 8. (Later the V-2 was also used on Antwerp.) The rocket, fired from mobile installations in the Netherlands, needed no elaborate launcher 139 and was not so vulnerable to active countermeasures. Fighter Command occa- sionally hit V-2 launch sites, but they were not suitable targets for the heavy bombers. The counter-V-weapons campaign was a costly and not too successful com- mitment for the Allied strategic air forces. They had delayed and reduced the German attack, but after the bombing of Peenemunde in 1943, the delay and reduction was mainly from the indirect effects of area attacks or attacks on other objectives, rather than those deliberately aimed at the missile threat. The Allies had often struck targets that were irrelevant. They apparently did not know enough about the V-weapons to concentrate their efforts against vulnerable points in production; the factory making the V-2's fuel pumps, for example, would have been a good target. But it is arguable that an all-out attack on the production of liquid oxygen, which the Allies knew the V-2 needed, and the gyrocompass plants (as Spaatz wanted) would have rendered the missiles inef- fective. And if the bombs expended on the V-weapons targets had been devoted to attacks on oil production, they might have done more to stop the V-weapons than any direct attack. The V-1 more than paid for itself by causing the British to invest tremendous efforts in defensive measures and by diverting Allied bombs from m