by flying at night or at unprecedentedly high altitudes. The main effectiveness of the attacks had not been in causing fatal damage to the enemy's war effort but in leading him to tie up resources in a defensive effort. And the strategic air effort, or at least its Zeppelin element, had been competitive with the support of naval efforts. The German attacks helped spur the formation of an independent Royal Air Force, although they did not actually cause it. It had long been widely believed that a single combined independent air force would be more efficient than the army's Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Air Service. The Gothas, however, guaranteed that they would be merged into one force in 1917, rather than after the war. Nevertheless, the creation of an independent air force was, in itself, neither necessary nor sufficient to insure a concentration of strategic air operations. The United States Army's Air Corps, and its successor, the Army Air Force, were decidedly oriented toward strategic bombing, while the independent French and German air forces concentrated on tactical operations. But the circumstances in which the RAF was formed, and the views of its most fervent advocates, insured that it would concentrate on strategic bombing. Gen. Jan Christiaan Smuts, whose reports to the cabinet on air matters inspired the decision to form the RAF, had written that "the day may not be far off when aerial operations with their devasta- tion of enemy lands and destruction of industrial and populous centres on a vast scale may become the principal operations of war, to which the older forms of military and naval operations may become secondary and subordinate."4 The RAF created its own counterpart to the Gothas and Giants. The British were not the first on the Allied side to begin strategic bombing; the French, in 1915-1916, had tried it on a small scale, sending planes deep into German territory to attack war plants at Essen and Ludwigshafen. But opposition had mad