lso used the improved conditions to revive the area campaign; the other five major operations of the period were area attacks on Hamburg, Stuttgart, and Kiel, by much larger forces then those sent to oil plants. Losses in attacks on Germany fell from over 11 percent to an "acceptable" 3.9 percent. Many of the losses still suffered, surprisingly, were not to conventional night fighters but to a revival of Wild Sow-single-engine fighters without radar, operating on nights with good visibility. During August the British launched a dozen big night attacks on German targets; losses fell to 3.7 percent that month, although four of these missions were to Stettin and Koenigsberg, very deep in Germany. The British now made more effective use of the Mandrel jammer, and the advance of the Allied armies in France aided them. As the Nazis retreated, their early warning system col- lapsed and their fighters lost their western bases, giving them less depth in which to operate. And ground-based jamming and electronic guidance systems followed the Allied armies closely. With Oboe and G-H stations near the German borders, accurate bombing deep in Germany became easier. The fuel shortage began to reduce German night fighter operations. British losses at night fell to 2.4 percent in September. 149 The British official historians, and most later commentators, credited the change in the situation at night mainly to the ground advance and the fuel short- age. But the fact that the greatest drop in the loss rate took place in July, before the Normandy breakout, or before the impact of the gasoline shortage was acute, strongly suggests that the steps taken after July 13 in the electronics war were mainly responsible. Harris had his own idea of how to exploit the victory at night: more area attacks. Only one night attack was directed against an oil plant during August. However, it is true that two precision attacks were made on the Opel vehicle plant at Russelsheim, which was wrongly thought