ng. Increasingly, much of the task of production was carried out by slave laborers, mostly from Eastern Europe, and their "morale" was immune from attack; they had never had any to start with. The Allied air forces had thus failed, though perhaps by a narrow margin to strike a decisive blow. Not only had they clearly failed to fulfill any hopes their commanders had had to defeat Nazi Germany without an invasion something the top Allied leaders had never expected, but they had failed to fulfill the 1943 plan for a combined bomber offensive. In terms of war produc. tion, the enemy was stronger than ever. Nevertheless, the Allies had struck a major blow by forcing the Germans to divert gigantic efforts to defense against air attacks and repairs; 1-1.5 million workers were devoted to cleaning up and rebuilding. While most of these workers were slave laborers, an irreducible minimum of German skilled workers were needed for repair work. The effort devoted to air defense was considerable; by late 1943 the Ger- mans had deployed 8,876 88-mm. guns and 24,500 light and medium guns to de- fend the Reich, all of which would have been useful in ground operations-the 88 was the best antitank gun of the war. Antiaircraft guns cost about twice as much labor as ground weapons of comparable caliber. The Germans had also deployed 7,000 searchlights, and both the heavier guns and the lights had their own radar sets. A third of the optical industry, and half of the electronics industry, was devoted to air defense work. The Germans now had some 1,650 fighters, the vast majority of all they had, in Germany and the Western-occupied countries to defend against the strategic bombers. They had also been provoked into investing in futile retaliatory efforts, like the development of the V-weapons and a renewed bomber offensive against London, the Little Blitz.8 COMMAND ARRANGEMENTS AND STRATEGY, 1943-1944 The looming invasion of France, American dissatisfaction with the course of the strategic