nt opportunities earlier. Most notable of these was the failure to start the oil offensive sooner and the delay in attacking the critical and extremely vulnerable bottleneck in tank engine and transmission produc- tion at Friedrichshafen. That vital target could have been struck in 1943. The failure to send the main strength of Bomber Command against Friedrichshafen, long before Harris reluctantly attacked it in April 1944, was one of the worst, if little noted, blunders of the war. Moreover, while much of the capability for night precision bombing rested on devices that only became available during 1943, one precision bombing Conclusions 197 method might have been developed much earlier than it was, namely 5 Group visual. Low-level marking could conceivably have been introduced as soon as Gee, a concentrated bomber stream, and marker bombs came into regular use, making precision attack in good weather possible against all but the most heavily defended targets in Germany as early as 1942. As a result of the fixation on area attack, Bomber Command's contribution to victory, although great, was far less than it could have been. But it should be remembered, especially by Americans, that the RAF did most of what damage was done to Germany through 1943, forcing the Nazis to build vast and costly air defenses. Dangerous as it was to serve in the Eighth Air Force, especially in 1943, the men of Bomber Command were even worse off for most of the war. And much of the Eighth Air Force's success rested on a base of British support and expertise. ARMY AIR FORCE MISTAKES The AAF's biggest blunder in relation to strategic bombing was its failure to get long-range fighters as early as possible. They were desirable not only for escort- ing the bombers, but for other purposes. The length of amphibious jumps behind the enemy front in the South Pacific and the Mediterranean was determined by the maximum range at which land-based fighters could cover a landing. The failure to obtain lo