attack on Berlin, seemed to suggest that the Americans too were now resorting to a policy of terror bombing. The fact that even visual bombing was never quite so ac- curate as the AAF had liked to claim, and that radar bombing was even less accurate, was becoming understood by 1945. And this lent itself to the supposi- tion that the Americans were deliberately carrying out area attacks. This was not really true. Although they had become more callous about casualties among enemy civilians, as the strafing attacks on February 14 showed, they were little closer to a policy of deliberate bombing of civilians than before. They might exploit a British operation with fighter attacks bound to kill civilians, but directing a major bomber operation for that purpose made no sense to them. Their basic presuppositions had changed no more than those of Harris. 15 Indeed, the discussions and directives of January had not really caused the destruction of Dresden. It had after all, been on Harris's pet target list for months. He would undoubtedly have smashed it earlier, if not for the annoying insistence of his superiors that he attack other objectives, such as oil plants. Dresden was yet another victim of an area-bombing policy that was three years old and at 181 least a year out of date. It was unusual only in that there was an effort to fit the attack on it into a pattern relevant to the larger picture of Allied military operations. Seen in the most immediate context (which, it should be said, is a misleading way to look at it), the bad reputation of the attack on Dresden is not entirely deserved. Horrible though it was, it made more sense than most area attacks in the latter part of the war. That, perhaps, is not saying very much. THE RETURN TO OIL During December the Fifteenth Air Force had maintained the strategic air offensive with help from the RAF; it had kept up strong blows against the Sile- sian synthetic oil plants and the Austrian refineries. Then it was grounded by w