to the air until the middle of that year. The buildup of the bomber force did not precede, but coincided with, the buildup for the D-Day invasion. Most of the bombs dropped on Germany-72 percent, in the case of the Eighth Air Force-fell after D-Day. And once large bomber forces were available, able to fly anywhere in Germany with fighter escort, decisive results were gained in a few months, despite serious mistakes in the choice of targets and the obtuseness of Sir Arthur Harris. It should be noted, however, that although they stress the achievements of the strategic air offensive in other respects, even some able historians of the air war have given credence to a lesser criticism. Max Hastings wrote that by the winter of 1944, when Bomber Command had the means to destroy German cities, "the purpose had gone, for the Allied armies were evidently on the verge of complete victory on the ground, and it was only a combination of their own shortcomings and the Wehrmacht's genius that delayed the end so long."3 In a similar comment on the Allied air forces generally, R. J. Overy wrote, "All the great expectations of air power as a war-winning weapon that had been kept alive, despite the failure in 1940, by the single-mindedness of the bomber school. were confounded by the fact that even the winning of the war in the air could not measurably reduce the time that it took to defeat the German armies in Europe."4 The fallacy here is the odd assumption that the land battles in 1944-1945 proceeded independently of the air war and were unaffected by the shortage of fuel and disruption of transportation. But accounts of German opera- tions tell a different story. By the fall of 1944, despite the partial recovery of fuel production, "fuel was sufficient to maintain operations, even during the static period, only by resorting to horse-drawn transport from railheads to tactical supply dumps, 40 to 50 percent reduction in the use of vehicles, a harsh system of rationing available sup