mb damage would hurt war production. Since, supposedly, the civilian sector of the economy had already been cut to the bone, the Germans were not considered able to shift production from civilian goods to weapons. The belief that German civilians were in a straightened situation was one of the reasons why people in the Western powers believed German morale soft. All of these ideas were wrong. Neither the economy nor civilian morale was strained or vulnerable. Before 1939 German expenditures on armaments and supporting industries and "infrastructure" were considerable-about one-and- one-half times that of Britain and France combined-but this was far from a total mobilization of the sort the Allied countries undertook when the war began, and that Germany neglected. From 1940 to 1942, British production of planes, tanks, trucks, and other war items was actually higher than that of the Ger- mans, despite the latter's bigger economy and control of a conquered Europe. German living standards remained high, higher than those of the British, until 1944. There was a "cushion," and a thick one, of unused capacity that could be used to repair bomb damage and increase production. The Nazis' failure to fully mobilize was not recognized until after the war. It has often been suggested that they coherently planned a "blitzkrieg economy," to support short, victorious campaigns, since they foresaw a series of short of- fensives, tackling one enemy at a time, rather than a long, multi-front war against a coalition, which was what they got. There are indications, too, that during the 1930s they did not expect a really big campaign until 1942 or 1943. Hitler thought that he did not have to mobilize his economy fully to support a war or wars of the type he banked on, and he was reluctant to reduce living stan- dards, lest it hurt his popularity. Although the Nazis pretended that Germany had been defeated because it was "stabbed in the back" by treason, Hitler, at least, knew better, and