s plan. On February 3, 937 Fortresses from the 1st and 3rd Air Divisions, as the Bom- bardment Divisions were now called, bombed Berlin, aiming at marshaling yards major railroad stations, and the government district, while B-24s struck oil targets and marshalling yards around Magdeburg. Although it was winter, surprisingly most of the bombing was visual. But, as the American official historians admit- ted, civilian casualties were high, although the reports of 25,000 deaths seem to have been exaggerated. German records suggest that less than 1,000 people were killed. The strike was aimed at what had long been deemed military objec- tives, but the attack on stations, as well as the normally more important marshaling yards, was probably calculated to interfere with refugee as well as troop movements, and was bound to kill many civilians. On February 4, as the dust settled in Berlin, the Combined Chiefs met their Soviet counterparts at Yalta. General Antonov, the Red Army's chief of staff, suggested that the Western air forces paralyze enemy communication centers like Berlin and Leipzig; he neither mentioned Dresden nor excluded it. On February 5, when proposing a bomb line, east of which Western bombing would be forbidden, he left Dresden open to Western air attack. Contrary to later claims, the Soviets never specifically asked for an attack on Dresden. The implication of their request was probably for more strikes on marshalling yards in eastern Germany, rather than area attacks. Antonov was probably thinking of attacks like the one on Berlin the previous day. Later Soviet propaganda exploitation of the bombing of Dresden tempted some Westerners to try to shift some or all of the blame for it onto the Soviets, but the record does not support this. 14 On February 6 the Eighth Air Force, unable to hit oil targets, sent 1,310 bombers to the marshalling yards at Magdeburg and Chemnitz, although much 179 of the force had to resort to attacks on small "targets of opportun