truggle for the air. During March and April the Eighth Air Force alone attacked aircraft and ball bearings targets in Germany on 27 days; when the weather there was impossible, it hit V-weapons sites and airfields in France in preparation for D-Day. The Fifteenth Air Force, which still had no Mustangs, was unable to strike Germany and Austria during March; in April it concentrated mainly on the Ploesti refineries In March the Americans' operations focused for the first time on Berlin. They were anxious to smash the Erkner ball bearing plant and several plants produc- ing complete planes and engines, and electrical components for planes and vehicles. The Americans were conscious of the prestige and morale factors in- volved in striking at the enemy capital; these insured that the Nazis would fight over Berlin and enable the Americans to grind them down before D-Day. Spaatz was eager to get going; on March 3 and 4 the Eighth set out under conditions that were not really suitable. The March 3 mission proved entirely abortive, and on March 4 most of the force turned back. Just 30 B-17s reached Berlin and bombed on radar. They were covered by only a bit more than one group of badly scattered Mustangs, but the Luftwaffe missed a chance to crush a weak American force. The weather proved a worse enemy; 24 American fighters did not return. The Germans were not, however, reluctant to fight. They had readied four special "high-altitude" groups of lightened Me-109s with special engines to tackle the escort fighters, enabling the logier standard Me-109s and FW-190s to get at the bombers. On March 6 the weather was finally suitable for an attack on Berlin; 730 bombers set out, and 672 reached Germany, accompanied by 801 fighters. For 123 the first time, some P-47s carried two 108-gallon drop-tanks. The Americans planned to hit the Erkner plant, an engine plant, and an electrical equipment plant. It proved the costliest mission, in terms of absolute losses, ever mounted by the AAF