r force and its supporting industries, and against the German fleet, but these were not regarded as very practical because the German forces were too dispersed or too well defended. Some plans were based on the recognition of what turned out to be real soft spots in the German war economy. WA 4 (Western Air Plan 4) aimed to smash the German railroad system, but it was realized even in 1939 that the German rail network was too dense for the available forces to make much of an impression. A more popular plan, WA 5, aimed to wreck the great heavy industrial region of the Ruhr by bombing power plants and coking plants. Yet the Air Ministry doubted that the relatively delicate power plants could be hit, or the coking plants wrecked if they were hit. Bomber Command warned that WA 5 called for more sorties than would probably be possible, and that the plan counted on using light bombers-Blenheims and Battles-that probably could not penetrate into Germany. The Air Ministry noted that a simpler way to paralyze the Ruhr would be to destroy the Möhne and Sorpe dams, which supplied water for its industries. But no existing bomb could smash the dams. WA 6 aimed to destroy the core of Germany's fuel supply-14 synthetic oil plants and as many major oil refineries. The optimists hoped they could be bombed fairly soon, if not at the start of a war, and this became the favorite war plan. But as the plans were laid, it was becoming clear just how feeble Bomber Com- mand really was. From September 1937 to April 1940, after the expansion of the force had begun, its commander was Sir Edgar Ludlow-Hewitt, a realist who saw how poorly based the RAF's theories were. He warned his superiors that Bomber Command was unready. Navigators, gunners, and even pilots were poor- ly trained. Nor had research been done on the problems of bombing or gun- nery; no facilities for this had ever been built. The few experiments made were discouraging; in 1937 it was found that the average crew could not drop