iled by bad weather. Then better conditions allowed a series of missions reminiscent of Blitz Week, culminating in the horrifying second attack on Schweinfurt. On October 8 the Americans attacked the aircraft plant at Bremen and the U-boat yards there  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 104 The Abortive Offensive and at Vegesack, using Carpet, a jammer to deal with German gun-laying radar for the first time. As soon as the P-47s turned back there was tough opposition and 30 of the 399 bombers dispatched were lost. This was followed, on October 9, by an unusual mission deep into the Baltic by 378 B-17s and B-24s. As a diversion to attract the Luftwaffe, one force at tacked an aircraft plant at Anklam, while other forces struck further east .. , at the Focke-Wulf plant at Marienburg in East Prussia, the U-board yards at Danzig and the Polish port of Gdynia. The diversion succeeded, at a high cost; the Anklam force lost 18 of the 106 bombers that reached the target. (The other forces lost 10 planes in all.) There was little flak at Marienburg; the B-17s bombed from just 11,000 to 14,500 feet with great accuracy, using an effective new weapon the M47A2 napalm-filled bomb. Smoke screens foiled the attack on Danzig and hampered the one on Gdynia, which nevertheless did severe damage. Overall the mission was a remarkable success, but it was to a relatively lightly defended area. The next mission, on October 10, was also unusual. While the B-24s flew a diversion, 274 B-17s went to Münster to disrupt rail and waterway traffic, not by hitting transportation facilities but by bombing the residential center of the city to kill the railroad workers. Bomber Command never aimed so frankly at killing German civilians as the Eighth Air Force did at Münster. It was a strange choice of targets in other ways; transportation was not a high-priority target at this time, and even a destructive isolated attack would not hurt Germany's flexible rail system. (As we shall see later, however, at