lon drop-tanks. The Americans planned to hit the Erkner plant, an engine plant, and an electrical equipment plant. It proved the costliest mission, in terms of absolute losses, ever mounted by the AAF in Europe. Over 400 German fighters intercepted. The Nazis took the extreme step of throwing many precious night fighters into a day battle, something they had recently avoided. As the Americans passed Dümmer Lake and entered central Germany, the Germans hit the leading 1st Division hard. As the battle moved east, the Ger- man controllers perceived that the middle of the American bomber stream, the 3rd Division, was weakly escorted, and they moved to exploit this. Small forces of fighters tied down the American fighters covering the van and rear of the 3rd Division; then a hundred-odd German fighters swarmed all over the com- bat wing in the middle. Between fighters and unusually heavy losses to flak, the Americans lost 69 bombers and 11 fighters over Germany; 6 more bombers and 3 fighters were junked after returning to Britain. An incredible total of 347 bombers suffered some sort of damage. Moreover, overcast and scattering of the bomber formations rendered the attack a failure; the primary targets were not hit. But the Germans had suffered heavy losses too; some 66 fighters went down, and 36 pilots and crewmen were killed. Although the American losses in absolute terms were worse than those over Schweinfurt, they were inflicted on a much bigger force. The Eighth returned to Berlin on March 8, sending 623 bombers escorted by 891 fighters. The Germans reacted less strongly than on March 6, but they found a weak spot again. This time the leading combat wing was poorly covered; 37 bombers and 18 fighters went down. However, the escort alone claimed 79 German planes in the air and another 8 on the ground. Conditions for bomb- ing were much better, and the Erkner plant was wrecked.16 The weather, none too good in early March, was even worse for most of the rest of the mon