more before the war ended. The number of victims at Dresden was never accurately known. The city's population had been swollen by refugees, and those who dealt with the disaster had more to worry about than an accurate tally of corpses. Wild stories of over 200,000 dead circulated; even in 1963, David Irving's well known book The Destruction of Dresden claimed that as many as 135,000 people had been killed. which would make Dresden by far the most destructive air attack in history. The true number of the dead was probably 35,000-still horrible and almost as many as those killed at Hamburg. But Dresden left a uniquely bad taste in many people's mouths. Hamburg had been a major industrial city and had been attacked in the middle of the war. The heavy loss of life, then and there, had been relatively acceptable. But Dresden was bombed late in the war, and it was widely realized even at the time that it was not of much significance to the enemy war effort. The fact that something unusually bad had happened at Dresden became known at the time and evoked a new round of questioning of bombing policy in Britain, and to a lesser extent in the United States. With the war nearing its end, even those who had strongly favored area bombing now found it hard to swallow. The Dresden attack, and the increasing public distaste for the area attacks, prompted Churchill to start distancing himself from them and from Harris. The Americans were also embarrassed. The fact that the RAF had bombed Dresden as a nominal part of a joint Anglo-American program was not yet widely known. But the fact that the RAF attack on Dresden was closely followed by two Eighth Air Force missions, which had, albeit unintentionally, hit residential areas there, and that these had succeeded an unusually destructive attack on Berlin, seemed to suggest that the Americans too were now resorting to a policy of terror bombing. The fact that even visual bombing was never quite so ac- curate as the AAF had liked to cla