d the Serrate Beaufighters with faster Serrate Mosquitos. But Serrate was ineffective against the new SN-2, and the Mosquitos were older models with obsolete radar. The British also introduced new bombing aids. G-H, first used in October 1943, had been proposed much earlier, but its development had been postponed in favor of Gee and Oboe. G-H combined Gee with a sort of Oboe in reverse; a transmit ter in the plane measured the range of ground stations in Britain. It had no more range than Oboe, but up to 100 planes could use it at once. The British also introduced a repeater system to extend Oboe's range, using planes as air- borne relays. This promising system would have let the British mark Berlin ac- curately and probably carry out precision attacks deep in eastern Germany. But Harris was not interested; it was never used after October 1943!20 Unfortunately, by the opening of the Battle of Berlin in November, the RAF had largely exhausted its bag of tricks. THE BATTLE OF BERLIN On November 3 Harris explained his plans to Churchill. He claimed to have virtually destroyed 19 German cities as far as their contribution to the war ef fort was concerned, and seriously damaged 19 more. He concluded that "we can wreck Berlin from end to end if the USAAF will come in on it. It will cost between 400-500 aircraft. It will cost Germany the war."21 He was sure he could defeat Germany before the invasion of France. On December 7 he justified his optimism in great detail. His policy remained pure area bombing; success was measured in terms of destruction of built-up area. He believed that the destruc- tion of 40-50 percent of the principal towns would cause a surrender, and ex- pected to achieve this by April 1944. 67 Not everyone agreed. On December 23 Bottomley bluntly told Harris that his reasoning was not convincing. He doubted that more than 11 percent of Germany's people could be "dehoused," and anyhow they could be rehoused in Austria and some other occupied countries. (