out how to win the war, he also thought that it was too bad that oil plants were mostly well away from densely inhabited areas. Shrewd doubts about whether the RAF could do what it promised were thus mixed with less worthy, although natural, motives of revenge. Nevertheless, on January 15 Bomber Com- mand was ordered to make the destruction of the synthetic oil plants its sole primary aim. Even as these plans to deprive the Nazis of oil were laid, however it was becom- ing apparent just how little basis there was for confidence in the RAF's ability 29 to hit the oil plants. On December 16 an "area attack" on the center of Mann- heim was carried out, on Churchill's order, as a reprisal for the German attack on Coventry. It was frankly aimed at German civilians. Copying German prac- tice, it was led by eight Wellingtons flown by the most experienced crews, drop- ping incendiaries to mark aiming points for the following planes. There was a full moon. Of 134 planes sent out, 102 reported hitting the target area; 7 went down or crashed in England. But high-quality photos taken by the new recon- naissance model of the Spitfire showed that the bombing had been scattered and inaccurate. A reconnaissance of two oil plants at Gelsenkirchen, in the Ruhr, showed that despite two attacks in which 296 planes had dropped 260 tons of high explosives plus some incendiaries, there was little evidence of damage or even of craters nearby. Inquiries showed that incompetent debriefing had exag- gerated the achievements of the air crews. Many were not confident that they had found their targets, and the more experienced men were the least optimistic. Most wanted the target marked by specially picked crews starting fires. The Battle of the Atlantic Nevertheless, the house of cards of precision bombing remained standing for a time. The weather in January and February 1941 was so bad that just two attacks were made on oil targets,5 and by March the threat to Britain's supply lines in the Bat