ON BOMBING Bomber Command's surprising ability to handle this task stemmed from the convergence of two different developments. The long-standing efforts by 617 Squadron to develop the ability to attack small targets bore fruit, as it became apparent that the regular Oboe marking technique could be refined to allow far greater accuracy than Harris had imagined. Ironically, Bomber Command matched and surpassed the AAF in accuracy just as it became possible for the Americans to go anywhere in Germany-and as the German night defenses made it dangerous for Bomber Command to attack the enemy homeland. For some months, 617 Squadron's efforts against precision targets had not been particularly successful. In September 1943 an an attempt by eight Lancasters to smash the Dortmund-Ems Canal with delay-fused 12,000-pound blockbusters failed. Attempts to destroy the Antheor viaduct in southern France failed despite the use of a very accurate new bombsight. But Squadron Leader Leonard Cheshire, the able and very brave commander of 617 Squadron, persisted. Nine of his Lancasters made a very accurate attack on a V-weapons site in France on December 16, using Oboe Mosquito marking and bombing from 12,000 to 15,000 feet with the new Stabilized Automatic Bombsight. Although the bombs just missed the target, which was tiny, this episode should have shown what could be done with Oboe. Cheshire, however, now swung to the other extreme- low-level instead of high-altitude marking. He and Squadron Leader H. B. Martin. a veteran of the Dams attack, observed that a low-flying plane could mark a target for a force flying much higher and demonstrated this in January 1944 Martin realized that marking by dive-bombing would be even more effective. The new technique was perfected in a series of small attacks on French factories in February and March. On the night of February 8-9, Cheshire dived his Lancaster to 200 feet to drop incendiary bombs on the Gnome-Rhone aircraft engine plant at Limoges. T