y were easy to see even on H2S and H2X screens and were vulnerable to bomb damage. Natural oil refineries were smaller and less vulnerable, but were especially im- portant for some purposes. They made all of Germany's lubricating oils and a disproportionate amount of its diesel and motor fuel. The benzol plants were small, scattered in dense urban areas (especially in the Ruhr) and hard to find. The Allies were never fully informed of their locations, but they were never- theless vulnerable to RAF area attacks. The Allies did not fully understand the enemy oil industry and did not see its connection with rubber, explosives and fertilizer production. They overestimated the amount of fuel produced by the crude-oil refineries and the Fischer-Tropsch plants, and hence the total enemy fuel production, and also the size of Germany's reserves. This might have made oil seem a less attractive target than it really was, but luckily they also overestimated German fuel con- sumption. The various errors cancelled each other out.2 THE START OF THE OFFENSIVE Fortunately, Eisenhower had the greatest respect for Spaatz (who regularly cleaned out other Allied leaders at poker) and, even while overruling him on the Transportation Plan, had been impressed by the potential of an attack on oil. He was also mindful of Spaatz's advice that attacks on the oil plants would force the Luftwaffe to fight, weakening it before the supreme trial of D-Day. Spaatz kept this before him, while he acted effectively, if almost surreptitiously, to get the offensive against oil started in the Mediterranean. His weaker southern arm, the Fifteenth Air Force, was committed to attacking transportation targets in southeastern Europe. This afforded a way to get at the Ploesti refineries without a formal order or a quarrel over priorities. Each major refinery there had a small marshalling yard associated with it. Restricted by weather, commitments in Ita- ly, and a lack of escort fighters, the Fifteenth Air Forc