's nitrogen, and ten plants made 80 percent of the country's requirements. A reduction of 70-80 percent in nitrogen production would have  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 198 Conclusions led to critical shortages of ammunition within nine months to a year. Aluminum production was concentrated in fourteen plants; as the 1943 attack on the plant at Heroya showed, they too were vulnerable. The constituents of ethyl fluid (ethylene dibromide and tetraethyl lead), a vital additive for aviation gasoline, were made in just three plants in Germany and one in France, and attacks on these plants, if successful, would have crippled the Luftwaffe in a short time. Some of these target were known at the time, although others were only fully disclosed by the Strategic Bombing Survey after the war. Rubber and light metals were recommended targets at the time, and were only eclipsed by what was wrongly thought to be the better target of ball bearings. American analysts knew that nitrogen was important but nevertheless underrated it and believed the Germans' productive capacity greater than it was. Explosives and ammunition plants were overlooked for a long time, although it should have been obvious that their very nature made them wonderful targets. Some experts suggested attacking the production of ethyl fluid as early as 1942, but unfortunately the location of the biggest German tetraethyl lead plant was unknown until 1944. In the other cases noted above, it was not vital data that was missing but correct interpretation of information that was available.10 Most of the target systems discussed above were scattered throughout Germany and could not have been smashed without the fighter escort that should have been available, but was not. Synthetic rubber production was a partial excep- tion; it was located largely in western Germany, although one major plant was far to the east at Schkopau. But two target systems were near England and might have been identified at the time. The thre