So did its addiction to assembling large formations before engaging the enemy. Given the vast superiority of the Allies in numbers and quality, however, the Luftwaffe's tactical errors probably merely speeded up the Allied victory in the air. COULD STRATEGIC BOMBING HAVE WON THE WAR ON ITS OWN? Strategic bombing was always viewed as a prelude and accompaniment to a land invasion. It is unlikely that the Western powers would ever have willingly staked victory on bombing alone. But in certain circumstances they might have been forced to do so. We now know that Stalin was willing to make peace on at least one occasion, although Hitler seems to have flatly opposed anything of the sort. Had Hitler either come to an accord with Stalin or defeated the 201 Soviets in 1942, the Western powers could probably never have invaded the European mainland, and they would have had to rely on air power alone to defeat Germany. Had the invasion of France in 1944 failed, the Western Allies might have been forced to rely on bombing as their main contribution in finishing off Germany. This was not beyond the realm of possibility. Had Hitler allowed a saner strategic policy, of withdrawal from outlying positions and retreats to shorter fronts in the east, the German forces in France could have been greatly reinforced before D-Day. Had the invasion been defeated on the Normandy beaches, the Allied offensives against German oil and transportation might well have gone on much as they did. The war would have lasted longer, but the Nazis would have been defeated, although the position of the Western powers, vis-à-vis the Soviets, would have been considerably worse. To return to the earlier case, had the Nazis defeated the Soviets or made peace with them in 1942, the course of the strategic air offensive would have been considerably different. The Germans would have been able to put much greater resources into air defense. Even in the short run, it is likely that the fighters released from the E