, causing tremendous confusion to the new at tackers. They ran into a hell of flak, attacking fighters, and exploding oil in stallations. Kane's group suffered particularly badly, losing 21 of its 41 planes But the attacking groups did a good job. Most of the 44th Group's planes were assigned to hit the Creditul Minier refinery at Brazi, well southwest of the other targets. It, too, was thoroughly smashed, for the loss of only 2 planes. Only two groups left the Balkans in some sort of formation. The American force was badly scattered as it was jumped by German and Bulgarian planes on the way home; 8 planes landed in Turkey; others reached bases all over the Eastern Mediterranean. In all, 54 B-24s had been lost and many more damaged: 310 men had been killed, and 54 of those returning to Allied bases were wounded About 150 men, many injured, were prisoners in Romania and Bulgaria. (Later the Turks graciously let the 79 men interned in Turkey "escape.") The Ploesti force had suffered losses that, as a proportion of the force involved, put even the Eighth Air Force's worst disasters in the shade. Five men were awarded the Medal of Honor. The Germans apparently lost at least six fighters; the Bulgarian and Romanian losses are unknown but probably totalled no more than nine planes. The attack had not knocked out Ploesti with one blow, although that had not really been expected. It was a classic example of the weakness of even the cleverest plan. if it is based on tricks and relies on absolute precision of execution without any margin for error. The idea that radio silence would save the force from discovery once the Balkan coast was crossed was unrealistic and contributed to its dis- organization. Bad luck and the loss of the original lead planes dogged the mis sion. The wrong turn at Targoviste, and Ent's strange behavior after turning north from Bucharest, hurt the mission, but his mistake was a natural one Nevertheless, it should be noted, three of the five groups actu