t to an almost endless series of woes. Half or more of the P-38 losses in the winter of 1943-1944 were due to mechanical problems. At first sight this was puzzling, for the Lightning had piled up a fine record in the Mediterranean and the Pacific. But conditions in other theaters were very different from those in Northern Europe. After the pilots had realized that the P-38, like other Allied planes, could not match the very maneuverable Japanese fighters in a dogfight, they found it superior in almost every other respect. They easily outdived Japanese planes, without going into a very fast or steep dive, and they rarely flew above 25,000 feet. Conditions in the Mediterranean were not too different. There the German fighters, usually escorting their own bombers and transports or covering convoys, rarely flew very high. Most combat took place below 20,000 feet, where the Lightning was better in most respects than  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 112 The Struggle for Air Superiority the FW-190 and Me-109. Operations at 30,000 feet or more, in the cold and damp of a European winter, were something else. Even when it functioned properly, the Lightning was not well suited, in it- current form, for high-altitude escort in Europe. At 30,000 feet its acceleration and rate of roll were poor. Moreover, it suffered from "compressibility" in a fast dive; the Germans could dive away from American pilots, who were rightly afraid that compressibility would tear their planes apart. The twin engines, which gave pilots in the Pacific security against engine failure on long overwater flights, were a drawback over Germany. The ability to fly on one engine proved of little use. when one engine was hit, it caught fire, and the pilot had to bail out. At least some of these faults were corrected, albeit slowly. Later-model P-381. had adequate cockpit heaters and windscreen defrosters, better electrical and engine-cooling systems, and bigger fuel tanks. P-38J-25s and P-38Ls, which arrived s