ing of Germany 110 The Struggle for Air Superiority exception-could be hit by the Eighth, and warned that the weather over Germany, not over the bombers' bases, was the critical factor. And the Alps would be a serious obstacle to the return of damaged planes. These views proved well founded; even the weather over Italy proved worse than expected. Base facilities in Italy were inadequate, and their improvement was slow. The Fic teenth was not established in the Foggia area until the end of December. It made only a few attacks, mostly against Wiener Neustadt, before 1944. Then its buildun picked up speed; three B-24 groups arrived in the Mediterranean every month from December through February. In practice, the overwhelming burden of the struggle continued to rest on the Eighth Air Force, and particularly its fighters. The Eighth had long had priority over other theaters for long-range fighters, but many of the latter had been allocated to reconnaissance units. The first P-51B Mustangs were slated for the Ninth Air Force, not the Eighth, but after Schweinfurt, the Eighth's priority became absolute. From October to December all new P-38s and P-51Bs would go to England. The British agreed that the RAF squadrons scheduled to receive Mustangs would escort the Eighth.1 But as the climactic struggle for air superiority began, there were terribly few long-range fighters. The Luftwaffe's victory had been decisive, yet conditional. It had stopped the Americans from attacking well inside Germany, and it was growing in strength. but its own losses had been heavy. In the West alone it had lost 248 single-engine fighters (16 percent of the force) in August, 276 in September, and 284 in October In all theaters together, it usually lost 30 to 40 percent of its fighters every month. while its fighter production was under attack. Some Luftwaffe officers were wor- ried. Gen. Hubert Weise, who commanded the defense of central Germany. presciently suggested on November 6 that at least so