avre and Boulogne, smashing a threat to the cross-Channel supply route. The Eighth Air Force conducted a different sort of special operation; on June 25 it carried out the first of four massive air drops of supplies to the resistance forces in southern France. The pre-invasion attacks on French airfields now paid off. As nearly a thousand planes rushed from Germany to France, they found the bases there overcrowded and in poor shape. "Ultra" and lower-level code breaking disclosed the destina- tions and arrival times of the reinforcements and helped the Allies ambush them as they came in to land. The transfer of German fighters westward merely threw the outnumbered, deteriorating force against the massive tactical air forces as well as against the Eighth. Despite the failure of the attacks on D-Day, the Allies persisted in using the heavy bombers against German defenses in the field. The British particularly stressed what became knows as "carpet bombing" in support of their offensives in Normandy. Sometimes this achieved remarkable results, but it could be dangerous to Allied soldiers if a mistake was made. Attacks on towns in the Germans' immediate rear-Caen was an especially bad case-sometimes killed many French people. The Eighth Air Force's attack on July 25, the most effec- tive carpet bombing of the campaign, showed both the effectiveness and the danger of such operations. After an abortive attack the day before, in which some American soldiers were killed by bombs that had fallen short, 1,507 heavies joined the mediums in plastering the battle area to blow a hole for the breakout 141 from Normandy. The Germans were so well dug in that few died, but their tanks and guns were shattered or even half-buried in fields plowed up by bombs. But some bombs fell on the Americans, and more than a hundred were killed. Similar attacks remained a feature of major Allied offensives, although some observers doubted that they were usually worthwhile. They especially disliked a