done more to stop the V-weapons than any direct attack. The V-1 more than paid for itself by causing the British to invest tremendous efforts in defensive measures and by diverting Allied bombs from more impor- tant targets. Curiously, the cheap, slow V-1 cruise missile proved more effective than the spectacular and costly V-2 rocket. The V-2 could not be intercepted and was rarely caught on the ground. But for those very reasons, the British could only grit their teeth and endure them. The deaths of British civilians were tragic, but of less than no help to the Nazis. The V-2s, however, unlike the V-1s, were a costly drain on German resources and unjustified by any diversion of the resources of the Allies. 10 The V-2 was a great step toward the conquest of space, but as a weapon it was a bust. After World War II, many of the men involved in its development wound up working in the American aerospace ef- fort. But without intending to, in a sense they had really been working for the Western powers all along. SUPPORT FOR THE LAND CAMPAIGN The struggle against the V-weapons was not the only "diversion" required of the strategic air forces. For months after D-Day, immediate support of the armies in Western Europe took precedence over strategic attacks on Germany, and this must be appreciated if the true nature of the strategic air war is to be understood. Between June and August 1944, because of the demands of the land battle and the attacks on V-weapons sites, only a little over a third of the bombs dropped by the American strategic air forces and only a sixth of those dropped by Bomber Command fell on targets in Germany. Despite this, as we shall see, they struck decisive blows against the German war effort. The effects of the operations of the heavy bombers, and their escort fighters, in support of the armies are often hard to distinguish from those of the Ninth  140 The Strategic Bombing of Germany Strategic Air Offensive/The Normandy Invasion and Second tactical ai