ring the static period, only by resorting to horse-drawn transport from railheads to tactical supply dumps, 40 to 50 percent reduction in the use of vehicles, a harsh system of rationing available supplies, and use of charcoal-burning transport."5 And, although the Germans gathered reserves permitting an offensive, they proved insufficient. General Hasso von Manteuffel, who commanded the Fifth Panzer Army in the Ardennes, noted the enormous difficulties created for his forces by the transportation campaign.6 As F. W. von Mellenthin later observed, "during the last months of the war communications were entirely disrupted, so that it was impossible for any replacement to reach its destination. . . . Even though the necessary equipment was available in Germany, it could not always 193 reach the front line-at least in sufficient quantities." It took longer to transfer troops from one end of Germany to the other than it had once taken to send them from France to Russia.7 ACHIEVEMENTS AND FAILURES OF THE STRATEGIC AIR OFFENSIVE At the risk of repetition, let us sum up the achievements and failures of the offensive against Germany. Until the spring of 1944, a watershed period, it fell short of expectations. But it let the Western powers strike at Germany when there was no other way to do so, and it helped sustain British morale in 1940-1941, when that nation was virtually alone. By 1943-1944 it was tying down an enormous and increasing German force in a defensive effort, including up to 1.5 million soldiers and civilians and enor- mous numbers of planes, guns, and other equipment, most or all of which could have been devoted instead to German operations in Russia and the Mediter- ranean and to preparations for the defense of France. On at least two occasions the bombing directly hindered work on coastal defenses by causing the Germans to withdraw laborers from them. Although merely diverting efforts from other fronts and operations may seem a minor result-and it was not on