e power of the Luftwaffe. The Eighth Air Force had played the most important role in this costly victory. In April it suffered its heaviest losses in the whole war; 512 planes (361 heavy bombers) had been lost and 65 more junked after returning to England. But more and more the losses were due to flak rather than fighters By May 1944 the Germans no longer regularly intercepted Allied attacks, and when they did fight, some of their pilots seemed utterly incompetent. Victory in the air had not been gained by bombing German factories; fighter production actually rose. After Big Week, Milch had willingly yielded control of production to Speer, while fighters finally gained overriding priority over bombers. Hitler refused to stop bomber production completely, but he even con- sidered sending 100,000 Hungarian Jews to work as slave laborers in the fighter plants, instead of to Auschwitz. Speer saved him from this distasteful expedient, resorting to the same techniques that had saved ball bearing production. He appointed one of his assistants, Karl-Otto Saur, to head a special "fighter staff." 125 A member of the staff was permanently attached to each existing factory, even as dispersal to hundreds of sites, many hidden in forests, was hastened. Blast walls were placed around vital machinery, and all wood and other combustibles were removed from the plants. Over 100,000 more workers were gathered for repair and dispersal work; flying repair crews rushed to plants that had been bombed. The normal work week (for the German workers) was increased from 50-60 hours to 72 hours, and more in an "emergency." They received extra welfare services, food, and clothing in recompense. Acceptances (not production) of new single-engine fighters reached 3,031, a peak for the whole war, in September 1944. Since acceptances lagged behind production, actual production must have peaked in July or August. In the whole of 1944 the Germans built 25,860 single-engine fighters, compared to only 9,6