st sight, vague. In view of the tactical difficulties of destroying precise targets by night, RAF Bomber Command will continue to be employed in accordance with their main aim of disorganizing German industry. Their operations, will, however, be designed as far as practicable to be complementary to the operations of the USSTAF. In particular, where tactical con- ditions allow, their targets will be selected so as to give the maximum assistance in the aims of reducing the strength of the German Air Force and destroying and disrupting enemy rail communications.1 A list of such targets was issued to Harris, who, if the Luftwaffe had not made it too hard, might have tried to climb through the loophole offered by the first 129 phrase. As it was, he did launch some area attacks on cities not too deep in western Germany. But most of his efforts went to the Transportation Plan, the attempt to smash the French and Belgian railroad system.2 THE TRANSPORTATION PLAN How best to use the heavy bombers to support Overlord was a controversial matter. The prime problem of the invasion was that only a limited force could be put ashore on D-Day. The Germans, using roads and railroads, could re- inforce their troops in Normandy faster than the Allies could strengthen their beachhead. The German reinforcements had to be stopped, or at least slowed. One major element in achieving this would be deception measures. Once the Allies were ashore, they would try to convince the enemy that the landing in Normandy was just a diversionary attack and that the main invasion was still to come in the Calais area. But the Allied air forces also had to do everything possible to interfere with the movement of German forces and supplies to the real battlefront. The original plan for the Normandy invasion, formulated in 1943, had assumed that enemy transportation would be attacked through simple "interdiction." Allied planes would cut the railroad lines and destroy the bridges leading to the battle area j