osing air force to win control of the air; then it should strike at produc- tion and transportation centers. The bomber was the primary instrument of air power; Mitchell thought that a few bombs would cause tremendous destruc- tion. Like most people between the world wars, he underestimated the ability of people to stand up to bombing and industry's ability to recuperate from attack. American air doctrine stemmed from Mitchell. Like the British, the Americans had been little influenced by outside ideas after 1918, despite a long-standing myth that British and American airmen were disciples of the Italian Gen. Giulio Douhet. Later the best publicized air theorist of the era between the world wars, Douhet argued that a small bomber force could fight its way through any defense, and by dropping gas bombs, virtually exterminate the population of a target country, killing 4 million civilians in just eight missions! But Douhet had no influence at all on the RAF. His ideas were known to American airmen, but they rejected his notions about air strategy, proper targets, and weapons. American airmen had no faith in bombing civilians or in gas. At most, they welcomed Douhet as a fellow proponent of the omnipotence of war planes. His only real influence may have lain in tactics; he reinforced the dogma of the self-defending bomber. 13 During the 1920s and 1930s the Air Corps Tactical School elaborated, but also in some ways dangerously simplified, Mitchell's ideas. It assumed that fighters and bombers must first deal with the hostile air force; bombers would then strike industrial and transportation targets and power plants to disrupt the enemy war effort. It early concluded that daylight attacks would be more effective. In 1926 it suggested that one way to defeat an enemy air force might be to attack air- craft assembly plants, while in the long run, strategic bombing might so disrupt the enemy as to destroy his will to resist independent of other military opera- tions. Althou