op the  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 26 The Failure of Bomber Command assembly of the invasion fleet by wrecking the aqueduct that carried the Dortmund-Ems Canal over the Ems River. Barges and small craft used the canal to reach the invasion ports. On the night of August 12-13, eleven Hampdens with picked crews attacked the canal. While some tried to draw enemy fire, the remainder struck at low level. Despite the diversion there was a storm of flak. Two planes were shot down, but the canal was blocked for ten days. Flight- Lieutenant Roderick Learoyd, who dropped the critical bomb, received the Vic- toria Cross. In September the other groups joined 2 Group against the channel ports, which proved easy targets; unless the weather was utterly impossible, the ports could be hit even on moonless nights. Bomber Command destroyed over 200 barges, almost a tenth of the invasion fleet. This bombing alone did not prevent an invasion, although it had done a good job of hindering invasion preparations. The fundamental reason the Germans failed to invade Britain was the Fighter Command prevented them from gain- ing air superiority. Bomber Command's actions had little direct effect on the fight for air superiority, but indirectly they may have encouraged the Nazis to make a mistake that greatly helped Fighter Command. Despite considerable ad- vice to the contrary, Hitler had ruled that the British capital should not yet be attacked on a large scale, and the Luftwaffe was concentrating its efforts on beating down the RAF. However, since there were more bombers than could be escorted during the day, the Germans employed some at night. And on the night of August 24-25, German bombers seeking oil-tank farms and aircraft plants mistakenly hit residential areas of London. The British were furious. At the Air Ministry's suggestion, Churchill ordered Bomber Command to Berlin. The British had refrained from attacking the Ger- man capital until then; it contained few targets of high pr