poor. Most American attacks were delivered on radar, many against the mar- shalling yards, which made relatively good targets. With the bombers flying whenever the weather was not utterly impossible, and dropping greater tonnages of bombs, the last two months of the strategic air war were the most furious of all. The Soviet advance shortened the Fifteenth Air Force's target list, and it con- centrated its blows on the marshalling yards and oil refineries around Vienna, on benzol plants there and at Linz, on the oil storage depots at Regensburg, on the tank plant at St. Valentin, and on jet plants at Regensburg and Neuberg, 183 sharing the last target with the Eighth. By February 21 several big missions to Vienna had left the oil and railroad targets there largely wrecked. Three more missions, on March 12, 15, and 19, finished off Vienna's oil production before the Soviets arrived on April 10. During March, the Fifteenth "poached" on the Eighth's usual targets, hitting the Ruhland oil plant on March 15, 22, and 23 and attacking a tank-engine plant at Berlin on March 24. It delivered two especial- ly effective attacks on jet production at Regensburg on February 16 and at Neuberg on March 21 and 24, claiming the destruction of nearly 50 finished jet fighters on the factory airfields. On March 25 the Fifteenth made a last strategic attack on tank plants and air bases around Prague; after that, it operated in direct support of the Allied armies. The strategic air war lasted a bit longer for the forces based in Britain. Bomber Command did most of the work necessary against German oil production in the Ruhr, as well as extending its efforts elsewhere, but the weather, which left only western Germany open to bombing, caused the Eighth to hit benzol plants and the sole oil refinery in the Ruhr. Otherwise it stuck to pounding away at the central German oil plants and the refineries in the Hamburg and Hannover areas. Three missions on February 24, March 5, and March 11, the la