as the Me-109 was, the Germans could have had an even better fighter, the Heinkel 100, which was faster and more rugged. But the Nazi leaders liked Willy Messerschmitt, and they disliked Ernst Heinkel, who was too frank. (Many Nazis also suspected, wrongly, that Heinkel was part Jewish.) As we shall see, the prejudice against Heinkel would rebound further against the Luftwaffe. Blunders before the war, and a series of cutbacks in research, first on programs that were not expected to have a quick payoff, and later when an early end to the war was expected, retarded the development of conventional planes and jets. The Nazis gave priority to a small number of propeller-driven designs expected to succeed those with which they had started the war, then spread the rest of their efforts on 40 different types of planes. Their new bombers were inadequate or were outright failures. The Me-209 and Me-210, intended to replace the Me-109 and Me-110 respectively, both failed. The Me-210 was hastily redesigned as the Me-410, although the whole idea of a "heavy fighter" should have been suspect.15 The Germans' inadequate plane production and reserves of planes, and other shortages at the outbreak of war, stemmed from one of the most astonishing facts of World War II. Nazi Germany had failed to fully mobilize for war, and did not do so until 1942. Contemporary observers were taken in by Goering's boasts that the Nazis preferred "guns to butter." But it was a natural assump- tion that the most warlike of all states would have completely harnessed its economy for military purposes even before the war. People further believed that 19 Germany's economy must already be badly strained, and that stocks of raw materials were especially short. This implied, or seemed to imply, that almost any bomb damage would hurt war production. Since, supposedly, the civilian sector of the economy had already been cut to the bone, the Germans were not considered able to shift production from civilian good