erator, which was test-flown in 1939. Awkward looking, with a slab-sided fuselage, high wings, and a twin tail, it was faster than the B-17 and could fly farther with a ton more of bombs. It became a teammate rather than a replacement for the B-17, although eventually more B-24s were built than Fortresses. The B-24 never became a legend, as the older plane did; men who flew both types preferred the B-17. Although the final model of the B-17 carried more guns than the B-24, the latter may have been just as well protected in practice. But the B-24 was less stable and harder to fly in formation-an ex- hausting job even in the B-17-and was more likely to catch fire when hit. Us- ing hydraulic systems for many functions that were carried out electrically on the B-17, the Liberator was more vulnerable to damage and flew less well when it lost an engine. But it was an invaluable workhorse, although the B-17 remained the preferred plane in Europe, the toughest theater, throughout the war. 15 As World War II began, the Army Air Corps had the nucleus of a well planned strategic bombing force. The obverse of its commitment to some outstanding heavy bomber designs was the backwardness of its fighters; it had developed in precisely the opposite way from the RAF. This was a serious handicap during the first years of the war. Even the new Bell P-39 and the Curtiss P-40 were inferior to European fighters, because these new American fighters were hobbled by inadequate Allison engines with poor high-altitude performance. The Americans had concentrated on air-cooled radial engines, preferred for civil airliners, navy aircraft, and army bombers, and had lagged behind the British and the Germans in work on liquid-cooled engines, for which army fighters were the sole American market. The Army's third new fighter, the Lockheed P-38 Lightning, was an outstanding plane of unusual design. It had twin engines mounted in long booms, the pilot and guns housed in a small nacelle between them. Bu