tion; it was located largely in western Germany, although one major plant was far to the east at Schkopau. But two target systems were near England and might have been identified at the time. The three lubricating-oil refineries at Hamburg could have been struck no later than the AAF attack on that city in July 1943. Had the Allies correctly understood the inland waterway system, they could have blocked traffic on the Rhine and the northwest German canals with a few attacks as early as late 1943, overburdening the rail system and slowing freight movement. It was want of correct analyses, not lack of information, that prevented the Allies from recognizing these targets. Had the AAF leaders recognized the impractical nature of deep penetrations and tailored their operations to the limits of the available fighter cover, a review of targets in the accessible area of Germany might have disclosed what was already in their grasp. There was nothing secret about the inland waterway system, and the crude-oil refineries were well known to foreigners. Many were owned by Western companies and had depended on overseas imports before the war. The Allies cannot be blamed for not knowing, for instance, the extent of German ball bearings stocks (of which the Germans themselves were ignorant), but their failure to understand other aspects of the German economy is hard to under- stand. Prewar Nazi Germany was not sealed off from the rest of the world by anything resembling the Iron Curtain, and it traded heavily with the Western democracies. Even during the war it was open to Swedish, Swiss, and other neutrals. The allied feats in intelligence during World War II have been well 199 publicized, but the success in code breaking was not paralleled in economic intelligence. The mistaken selection of targets in 1943 was important. Had the Allies chosen more wisely, successful American attacks on one or more of the small target systems mentioned above (and RAF attacks on tank components prod