er rate, which could home in on the Lichtenstein radar. But the Beaufighters were too slow to deal with the German fighters, and their operations were not vert successful. 12 On the night of July 24-25, Bomber Command dispatched 752 bombers to Hamburg. The aiming point for the attack was in a residential area north of the Elbe, between the river and the Alster lakes. Marking was somewhat more complicated than usual. The first pathfinders were to drop both flares and yellow marker bombs under H2S guidance; later pathfinders would try to visually aim red markers in the light of the flares. The "backers-up" who were to maintain the marking were to aim green markers at the reds, or if they could not see them, at the yellows. The main force was to aim at the reds or the greens. The flight to the target proved easy; Hamburg was almost within Gee's un jammed range and gave a very clear picture on H2S screens. The approach route was calculated to bring the British planes in from the north, where attack was not expected. Window blinded the enemy. Nevertheless, despite clear weather. the markers were scattered. Some fell in the dock area south of the Elbe, attrac- ting enough bombs to do some unplanned damage to shipyards. Of the 728 bombers that reported attacking the city, 306 bombed within three miles of the aiming point. The bombing killed 1,500 people and caused severe damage; the fires were so bad that they seriously interfered with an American attack the next day. RAF losses were low. Only 12 planes went down; another had to be scrapped after returning home. There was so much smoke over Hamburg on July 25 that Harris shifted that night's attack to the prepared alternative of Essen; the RAF again heavily dam- aged the Krupps works. The Americans returned to Hamburg on July 26; smoke again hid their primary target, a U-boat yard, but this time it was a smoke screen deliberately laid by the Germans. The American attacks caused a good deal of damage to industry, although m