spot fires on Ruder Island to establish a final checkpoint for the run into the target. They would then drop markers and flares over the targets. Finally, six planes would aim yellow markers visually at the aiming points. Gulled, the Germans concentrated their planes over Berlin; only belatedly did junior officers send the fighters north. The attackers reached Peenemünde without trouble, but the initial marking was poor. The red spot fires fell on Peenemünde itself, and some markers, overshooting by two miles, hit the slave labor camp at Trassenheide, attracting many bombs. The visual markers did better, and the master bomber steered most of the main force to them. Most of 5 Group dropped on the markers. Those who trusted their time-and-distance runs, however, did better. In the last stages of the attack, smoke hid the targets and the master bomber lost control, and German fighters arrived. The British lost 40 bombers (one more crash-landed at home) and 290 men. As many as 200 planes might have been lost had the diversion not tied up most of the Germans over Berlin. (Three of the eight Mosquitos sent there were lost.) The attackers wrecked the housing but were less successful at the experimental sta- tion and the factory. Over 700 people were killed; unfortunately, as in the Ruh dams attack, most were slave laborers. The effects of the bombing were only moderate, because the V-2's development was too far along, but the facilities at Peenemünde had to be dispersed. The V-2 was delayed by about two months. An attack a few months earlier would have found Peenemünde far less ready and would have had more impact.17 Friedrichshafen and Peenemünde might have pointed Bomber Command toward precision bombing. Jones's evaluation, quoted earlier in this chapter. may have been a bit overoptimistic, for neither attack was a good model for "normal" operations. Both were carried out in moonlight from relatively low altitude, against easily located targets. Nor, in the case of Peene