56th and 353rd fighter groups left the bombers at Eupen. in Belgium. Some 300 German fighters were ready for action, deployed in depth and there were constant attacks. Night fighters stalked behind to catch crip- ples. The Germans fired rockets and tried air-to-air bombing, but most of the damage was done with conventional attacks by single-engine fighters. By the time the force reached Regensburg, the Germans had largely exhausted their fuel and ammunition. Only some test pilots from a local factory defense unit harassed the bombers as they settle into their bomb run. Because of the target's importance, the B-17s bombed from relatively low 17,000 to 20,000 feet; fortunately, Regensburg was not particularly heavily defend- ed by flak. In spite of the heavy losses, the bombing was very accurate, destroy- ing many workshops and storerooms, and a hangar and finished planes on the factory airfield. But the most important single building, the final assembly shop. was not hit. Le May's force reached Africa without much further trouble. It had had 24 planes shot down. He found the African bases in poor shape, which discouraged future "shuttle missions" there. The Germans had expected the force that hit Regensburg to return to England, and were preparing for another great battle. They had one, but not quite as they expected. Just as they realized that Le May was going south, they detected a second force coming from England. The 1st Wing, nine groups of bombers comprising 230 planes, had finally taken off for Schweinfurt as the 4th Wind neared Regensburg. Its target was not quite so far, but it would have to fight 101 all the way there and back. The bombing plan had one unusual feature, for an American attack. If smoke hid the three factory targets, the last four groups, carrying incendiaries, were to bomb the center of Schweinfurt. That way they would hit housing and kill some skilled workers. The 1st Wing remained unlucky. After crossing the Dutch coast, it encountered a t