of Germany 4 Origins, Prelude, Doctrine section of it, rather than a specific installation. There was no question of hit- ting targets that were of military importance, or directly related to the war ef- fort, except by accident. In the same month they introduced even bigger bombers, the Giants (Riesen) with four engines (some later models had five or six) and crews of up to nine men. In size and carrying capacity they were not far short of the Flying Fortresses of World War II. In October the Germans began drop- ping mostly incendiary bombs. The night attacks on Britain lasted until May 1918; the largest consisted of 43 planes. Growing losses from the increasingly tough defenses then made the Germans switch their efforts to attacks on Paris. The Gotha and Giant raids had killed 836 people and injured 1,982. The German raids on Britain did not critically damage the British war effort. They caused only minor harm to war-related industries. The effect on British morale was unclear. Some maintained that the bombing was producing signs of panic in London, at least in the slums of the East End, and that by scaring workers and causing absenteeism it slowed war production out of all proportion to the physical damage caused. Other observers felt that the English people en- dured the raids with their usual stolidity and that, at worst, cabinet members were projecting their own reactions onto the mass of ordinary people. (The idea that air attacks could cause a complete social collapse, it should be noted, predated World War I and had been suggested by H. G. Wells, among others). Minister of Munitions Winston Churchill, although a strong advocate of air power, scoffed at fears that British morale would collapse. He rightly argued that what the experience actually proved was that trying to break the morale of a civilian population through bombing was impractical. (In World War II, Churchill was to take a very different position, as we shall see in Chapter 2.) Any damage to civ