mits to the ability of bombers to take evasive action; better formations were needed. At first the bombers had flown in three-plane flights with a good deal of space between the two flights of a squadron, all planes flying at the same level. But during September 1942 the squadrons began flying a stepped-up group forma- tion. After experiments, Le May worked out the group "combat box" forma- tion, in which both flights and squadrons were staggered so that all top and ball turrets could fire forward. It did not afford even protection; the low squadron was notoriously the most vulnerable. This formation was relatively easy to fly, but it complicated bombing. To deal with this, Le May introduced a practice  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 82 The Americans & the Eighth Air Force already used in the Pacific; the whole group would bomb on a signal from the lead plane, which would carry the best available bombardier. Even-bigger for mations became desirable; in April 1943 two or three group boxes were com. bined into a "combat wing" of staggered groups. (The Germans were already assembling fighters in big formations.) In early 1943 the losses still seemed tolerable. Eaker would have been delighted to receive fighter escort, but he was sure that a force of 300 unescorted bombers could attack any place in Germany with less than 4 percent losses. Unlike Eaker many subordinate commanders put great faith in the expected YB-40.15 INTO GERMANY Eaker was under pressure to hit Germany itself and wanted to attack the U-boat construction yards there. But the Eighth's operations against Germany would remain sporadic; only 14 missions would be completed against targets there in the first half of 1943. The anti-U-boat campaign remained the focus of its ac- tivities; 63 percent of its bombs, in that period, went to countering the submarines. On January 27 the Eighth bombed Germany for the first time, sending 90 bombers against the submarine yards at Vegesack. Bad weather, however, forced