ich proved helpful in the defense of the Reich as well as in the conquest of Europe. Lastly, the Luftwaffe controlled Ger- many's antiaircraft defenses, which were proportionately stronger than those of any other power. Hitler, and other Nazi leaders, had greater faith in the power of antiaircraft guns than they had in fighters. However, the Luftwaffe and its supporting industries had serious weaknesses. Some of these were hidden by success in the early part of the war, only to be exposed by the Battle of Britain and later reverses. One amazing lapse (although rarely noted) was Germany's failure to keep up in the development of aviation gasoline. While the United States and Britain had developed 100-octane gasoline, the Germans flew, right through the Battle of Britain, on 87-octane fuel. In 1940-1941 they obtained a 95- to 97-octane gasoline, but they never went beyond this, while new blending agents and additives gave the Allies the equivalent of 140-octane performance. The better performance of Allied piston-engine planes in World War II was often partly due to better fuel. The aircraft industry was short of skilled workers, and production-partly because of the lack of will to increase it, rather than sheer inability-was low. When the war began, the Luftwaffe was short of reserve planes, fuel stocks, bombs, and flak ammunition; only their victories and the Allied passivity in 1939 enabled the Germans to make good these shortages. The Luftwaffe lacked torpedo bombers, and largely because of Goering's jealousy and hostility, coopera- tion between the German air and naval forces in the Battle of the Atlantic remained poor. As a result of the disarmament before 1933 and the rapid ex- pansion afterward, the Luftwaffe was also short of mid-level officers. Despite the  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 18 Origins, Prelude, Doctrine blind-bombing aids discussed earlier, it was otherwise backward in making use of electronics. When World War II started, the Germans had exce