halle, Wedau, and Münster-and on the marshalling yards in the two Reichsbahn directorates of Halle and Oppeln, in central and eastern Ger- many, would have quickly wrecked the whole system. Even quicker results would have been attained had Bomber Command taken over the job of hitting the critical bridges and viaducts out of the Ruhr.7 THE FALL 1944 OIL BATTLE The USSTAF's commitment to the land battle, and Sir Arthur Harris's disinterest in the oil campaign, sharply reduced the attacks on oil targets in late September. The Eighth Air Force nevertheless struck Merseburg-Leuna, two other central German oil plants, and the Bremen refineries, while the Fifteenth tackled Blechhammer, Odertal, and Auschwitz, and refineries at Budapest. German production and imports of oil fell to just 281,000 tons in September, including only 10,000 tons of aviation gasoline. The Germans ended all train- ing for brand-new pilots, and fuel deliveries to the Luftwaffe were cut in half. The night fighter force rarely flew more than 50 sorties a night. Production of explosives fell steeply, as did that of glue and plastics. The Germans began diluting military explosives with fillers like rock salt; the manufacture of fertilizer and mining explosives was cut back in favor of immediate military needs.  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 170 Decisive Offensives II: Transportation Speer had foreseen immediate disaster if the air attacks went on at high in- tensity. Neglect and bad weather in October and November, and a reduction of fuel consumption at the relatively static front, helped him. The weather closed in earlier in 1944, and was even worse than it had been a year before. From October to December roughly 80 percent of the Eighth's bombing was on radar. Better guidance systems were now in use, at least over Western Germany. The Eighth now used G-H, and in November it introduced Micro-H. Pulses sent by forward ground stations were picked up by H2X receivers and steered planes with that appara