h of amphibious jumps behind the enemy front in the South Pacific and the Mediterranean was determined by the maximum range at which land-based fighters could cover a landing. The failure to obtain long-range fighters can be broken down into a number of lesser mistakes. First, and best known, was the AAF's disinterest in the P-51 Mustang, which could have been in action six months or more earlier. But two less well known blunders contributed to the predicament of the Eighth Air Force in 1943. First was the failure to modify the P-38 so it would be better suited to high-altitude combat in Europe, and second, and more important, was the Air Material Command's sluggishness in developing drop-tanks. The AAF's other major blunder was its poor target selection during 1943 and its obsession with the intermediate objective of beating the German air force by directly attacking aircraft production. The aircraft and ball bearings industries were just not vulnerable to attack. But there were several small target systems, manufacturing vital items, that would have been better choices for attack, and the Eighth Air Force's small bomber force could have smashed them, at least if it had fighter escort to penetrate deep into Germany. Synthetic rubber was made in just four plants, one small, and there were stocks of rubber for only a few months. As the attack on Huls in 1943 showed, these plants were vulnerable. Of Germany's explosives and ammunition, 70 percent was made in just seven plants, which proved very vulnerable when hit late in the war. Rebuilding an explosives plant would have taken six to nine months even in the best conditions. Nitrogen production, vital for explosives and fer- tilizers, was concentrated in a few plants; the two biggest plants produced nearly half of Germany's nitrogen, and ten plants made 80 percent of the country's requirements. A reduction of 70-80 percent in nitrogen production would have  The Strategic Bombing of Germany 198 Conclusions led to criti