evices proved satisfactory. Com bined Operations and the Special Operations Executive independently proposed destroying the Möhne by sabotage operations; paratroops, or commandos landed by flying boats, would plant charges to break it. In early 1943 this idea was a serious rival to a proposal for an air attack using yet a new special weapon Barnes Wallis, the brilliant engineer who had designed the Wellington bomber had long been interested in attacking all the enemy's sources of energy, not only dams, as an alternative to direct attacks on industry. (He was later wrongl credited with the whole idea of attacking the dams.) In 1940 he designed a huge 22,400-pound "penetrating" bomb that was to bury itself in the ground before exploding. This "earthquake" bomb would wreck the foundations of any struc ture. It would also break dams like the Möhne (the importance of which he was well aware) if exploded in the reservoirs within 150 feet of the dam face He designed a huge six-engine Victory bomber, to drop the bomb from 40,000 feet. Wallis attracted some support, but in May 1941 the Air Staff rejected the Victory bomber and the big bomb; the plane was unlikely to be finished during the war. Later on, a 12,000-pound version of the earthquake bomb, called the Tallboy, would be produced. It turned out that a modified Lancaster could ha a full-scale 22,000-pound weapon. Called the Grand Slam, it would be introduce in 1945. Wallis turned to the narrower problem of attacking dams. His solution was to explode a relatively small charge directly against a dam's water side. He pro- posed a round bomb, really a depth charge or mine, that would be dropped at low altitude after a backspin had been imparted to it. Skipping over the sur- face of the water, it would clear or smash through protective booms and hit the dam. Then it would sink, sliding down the dam side, and explode when it reached the right depth. Wallis was sure it could destroy both the Möhne and the Sorpe. He was backed