ttacks on French factories in February and March. On the night of February 8-9, Cheshire dived his Lancaster to 200 feet to drop incendiary bombs on the Gnome-Rhone aircraft engine plant at Limoges. Then eleven other Lancasters smashed the factory with six-ton bombs. The Limoges attack was the first of a dozen attacks on French aircraft, ex- plosives, and bearings plants. All but one of the targets was wrecked; only one bomber was lost in 350 sorties. This was a remarkable record even though the targets were lightly defended. The attacks showed the terrific effect of the British blockbusters, which were far more effective, pound for pound, than the AAF's lighter bombs. Cheshire realized that the Lancaster was not well-suited for low- level marking, and sought Mosquitos for the job. Meanwhile, the main force had begun the experimental attacks on French marshalling yards. By the end of March all the designated yards had been hit, using the conventional Musical Parramatta marking technique. The results were 133 excellent; Bomber Command could be trusted to wreck the rail centers without too great harm to people nearby. In the fifteenth attack on marshalling yards, against Aulnoye on April 10-11, the use of a master bomber was reintroduced, by the main force in what was called "controlled Oboe." After Oboe-guided Mosquitos marked the target, the master bomber checked them, steered the force to the best markers, and if necessary corrected or supplemented the markers dropped on Oboe with differently colored markers of his own. The first 15 attacks together showed an overall average bombing error of 680 yards for the 55 per- cent of the bombs that were considered "effectively aimed"-this excluded bombs carried by planes that had aborted, as well as duds and bombs dropped far from the target due to gross errors. That was close to what the Eighth Air Force was achieving in good visibility. Cheshire was developing an even better technique. On April 5-6, using a Mosquito, he a