than usual. The U-boat bases were assigned to the 4th Bombardment Wing, which had late-model B-17Fs of longer range. The Trondheim port area was severely damaged. The force sent to Bergen found it covered by cloud and did not attack. The 1st Wing's older Fortresses struck aluminum, magnesium, and nitrate plants at Heroya. They were jammed together on a small island, and the B-17s bombed from just 16,000 feet with tremendous effect. The nitrate plant was shut for three and a half months. The metals plants. which were not yet finished, were badly damaged, and the Germans decided that they were not worth rebuilding, given the difficulty of defending them. One B-17 crash-landed in Sweden, and another was junked after returning home, but not a single man was hurt, while a major industrial target was wrecked. 93 This, however, was an isolated blow against the enemy's light metals industry, a concentrated, vulnerable, and important target system. The attack into Norway was a good start for Blitz Week, but nothing after- ward equalled it. On July 25 the Eighth Air Force and RAF Bomber Command made one of their few attempts at cooperation. The Eighth tried to follow up the RAF's first great area attack on Hamburg with an attack there on the Blohm and Voss U-boat construction yards and the Klockner aircraft engine plant, while another force attacked Kiel. The Kiel attack caused much damage to U-boat vards and a German naval base there and sank a newly launched U-boat and an old cruiser. Clouds and smoke from the fires set by the RAF obscured Hamburg, however, protecting the Klockner plant. The attack damaged the Blohm and Voss yards and did considerable damage to the industrial area south of the Elbe, but at a high cost. Of 127 B-17s going to Hamburg, 15 were lost even though diver- sionary routing had fooled the Germans about the Americans' objective for a time. The interception was determined; even the single-engine fighters pursued the withdrawing Americans well out to sea