471  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 6 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER ————  sion of his extended essay, “Command of the Air,” a collection of letters to the editor termed “Recapitulation” that had appeared in the magazine Rivista Aeronautica, and two other essays, “Probable Aspects of Future War,” and “The War of 19__,” the latter being a fictional account of a future war between Germany and France. The Italian Air Force pub- lished another translation, by Sheila Fischer, in 1958, which reads quite differently from the Ferrari version. Fischer’s edition contains “Com- mand of the Air,” “Recapitulation,” a two-page summary of “The War of 19__” and three other essays not translated elsewhere.)  Because Douhet was the first to write about most of the important issues dealing with airpower, and because most of those who came after him, knowingly or not, merely wrote commentaries on his ideas and pre- dictions, I will discuss Douhet’s theories, and the criticisms of them, in some detail.  Douhet believed that World War I had demonstrated that wars were inevitable and that they would be total. He also believed that modern technology had produced a stalemate on the ground that could not be broken. As a result, airpower—which ironically had helped produce the trench stalemate by removing the element of surprise—would now restore mobility to war. Because of its ability to operate in the third dimension, airplanes could fly over the trenches, mountains, and rivers that impeded armies. Moreover, they could then bomb the “vital cen- ters” of an enemy country, hitherto protected by armies and fortresses: the key industries and structures that allowed a state to function. Because aircraft could travel in any direction, at any altitude, and at any time, they would enjoy the advantage of tactical surprise. This in turn meant they could not be intercepted or stopped. The