s of airpower, and then explains in detail its various roles and missions such as air superiority, antisurface attack, strategic attack, and air transport. The strength of this presentation lies more in its clar- ity than in any new insights.  In the U.S., conventional strategic airpower theory had been throt- tled both by reliance on nuclear weapons and, at the other extreme, by the largely tactical nature of the Vietnam War. This began to change with the work of Colonel John Boyd, a fighter pilot at the USAF’s Fighter Weapons School. Boyd was intrigued by the astounding success of the F- 86 in air combat with the MiG-15 (a ten-to-one superiority) during the Korean War. Upon reflection, he decided that the F-86’s advantage was due largely to its hydraulically operated flight controls and all-flying hor- izontal stabilizer that allowed it to shift from one aerial maneuver to another more rapidly than the MiG. After further thought, Boyd saw broader implications of this theory. The key to victory was to act more quickly, both mentally and physically, than your opponent. He expressed this concept in a cyclical process he called the OODA Loop (observe- orient-decide-act). As soon as one side acted, it observed the conse- quences, and the loop began anew. The most important portion of the loop was the “orient” phase. Boyd speculated that the increasing com- plexities of the modern world necessitated an ability to take seemingly isolated facts and ideas from different disciplines and events, decon- struct them to their essential components, and then put them back together in new and unusual ways. He termed this process “destruction and creation.” It was this process that dominated the “orient” phase of his OODA Loop.  The significance of Boyd’s tactical air theories is that he later hypothesized that this continuously operating cycle was at play not only in an aerial dogfight, but at the higher levels of war as well. In tracing the history of war, Boyd saw victory consis