et’s theories are legion. He grossly overesti- mated both the physical and psychological effects of bombing. Popula- tions did not break as quickly as he thought they would under the weight of air attack. All wars are not total wars, as the post-World War II era has repeatedly demonstrated. There is a defense against air attack. Ground war did not irrevocably produce stalemate: mobility was restored through a combination of mechanization, new tactics, and airpower. This meant, of course, that tactical air was not “wasteful, harmful and superfluous” as Douhet had said; it was essential. Finally, legal and moral constraints do play a major role in war, and this has been increasingly true over the past several decades.  The first in-depth study of Douhet in English was Louis A. Sigaud, Douhet and Aerial Warfare (New York: Putnam’s, 1941). Sigaud was a believer, and therefore offered few criticisms of Douhet. His book is more of an explanation than an analysis. Bernard Brodie, Strategy in the Mis- sile Age (Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1959), is one of the best, though now dated, analyses of Douhet’s theories. Brodie states that nuclear weapons are a vindication of Douhet, but this is too much of a stretch. If the only thing that makes Douhet relevant is nuclear weapons, then he is completely irrelevant.  The only biography of Douhet in English is an unpublished Ph.D. dis- sertation by Frank J. Cappelluti (“The Life and Thought of Giulio Douhet,” Rutgers University, 1967). It not only gives much detail about Douhet’s life, but contains an excellent description of his many writings. The only drawback to this study is its lack of critical analysis of Douhet’s ideas.  A stinging critique of Douhet, whose title states its thesis, is Thomas Mahoney, “Doctrine of Ruthlessness,” Popular Aviation, April 1940, pp. 36-37, 82, 84. Another less polemical but still negative appraisal is Major Thomas R. Phillips, “Preview of Armageddon,” Saturday Evening Post, 12 Marc