, Major General Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., was one of the “bomber mafia” instructors at Maxwell as well as one of the authors of AWPD-1. Although his book, The Air Plan that Defeated Hitler (Atlanta: Higgins-MecArthur, 1972), is partly a memoir and focuses mostly on World War II, it also features an interesting and informative look at ACTS when Hansell taught there. It is particularly useful in describing the personalities of his colleagues and the many arguments between them over the issues of airpower theory and employment.  One of the more critical looks at ACTS is provided by Barry D. Watts, The Foundations of US Air Doctrine: The Problem of Friction in War (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1984). Watts dislikes the way USAF doctrine has developed over the decades, and homes in on ACTS as the place of the original sin. Airmen have always tended to be tech-  MILITARY HISTORY x 477  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 12 --- PITILLIP S. MEILINGER ee = = =:  nologically oriented in their thinking, for the obvious reason that tech- nology is essential to their profession. The downside of this trait is the inclination to treat all obstacles as if they were engineering problems, capable of scientific analysis, measurement, and solution. This “mecha- nistic” view of air warfare is a big mistake, says Watts, because war is essentially a human and psychological phenomenon, and human actions are not governed by scientific laws. Thus, ACTS doctrine predicted that a measurable and predetermined amount of ordnance dropped would equate to a specific degree of destruction, which in turn would inex- orably lead to a failure of popular will. World War II demonstrated that this cause and effect linkage was not nearly so neat or obvious. Watts therefore calls for a more humanistic and cultural-based method of air doctrine formulation to replace the earlier, fla