ssion.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 19 --- io Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  to hasten its surrender, so too could airplanes bomb that city for the same purpose. Over the next three and a half decades Spaight wrote a number of other books on the subject of airpower in war, most dealing with its legal ramifications. His most important were Air Power and the Cities (London: Longmans, Green, 1930), Air Power in the Next War (London: Geoffrey Bles, 1938); and Air Power Can Disarm (London: Air League, 1948).  The most reflective, disciplined, and impressive thinker in the RAF was Wing Commander John C. Slessor. “Jack” had been a combat pilot in the First World War, served on Trenchard’s personal staff afterwards, and occupied various staff and command positions prior to World War II. Just before the outbreak of war, he was the RAF’s director of plans, and the trenchant logic and stinging sarcasm of his pen can easily be seen in the documents of the period that issued from his office. During the war Slessor was head of Coastal Command, and in 1950 became chief of the air staff with the rank of Marshal of the Royal Air Force.  For our purposes, Slessor’s most significant assignment was from 1931 to 1934 when he served as an instructor at the British Army Staff College. Although one of the staunchest of airpower advocates, his posi- tion teaching soldiers made too zealous an approach counterproductive. In addition, his views on airpower were no doubt modified by such close contact with the outstanding minds at Camberley. As a consequence, in his lectures he focused on a future war that postulated an expeditionary force on the continent, as in World War I, that required close coopera- tion between the RAF and Army. In such a scenario, Slessor recognized that strategic bombing was only tangentially related to the goals of the expeditionary force. Instead, there was a real need to isolate the battle- field with airpower—to disrupt and destr