ance at the end of the war, Trenchard was to remain head of the RAF until 1929. Termed “the father of the RAF,” Trenchard has attained near mythic proportions in the literature and traditions of the RAF. The reason for this, other than simple longevity, is not obvious. He wrote little, was a poor public speaker, and had neither the look nor the personality of a heroic leader. Yet, within the RAF his power was unquestioned. Although inarticulate, he had an ability to make his points clearly and forcefully to his subor- dinates. An early skeptic of bombing, he soon became a staunch advo- cate. Like Douhet, Mitchell, and the ACTS, Trenchard saw strategic airpower as being most effective when used against the vital centers of an enemy country. His ideas differed in that he rejected the population attacks of Douhet, while at the same time calling for assaults on enemy morale. He resolved this seeming paradox with an approach that was subtly but significantly different from that of the Americans. Whereas they advocated the bombing of enemy industry to destroy their capabil- ity to fight, Trenchard advocated bombing industry to destroy the enemy's will to fight. He believed that destroying the enemy’s industry, communications, transportation network, and economy would so dis- rupt the daily life of the working population, causing unemployment and hardship, that the people would demand an end to the war. This theory was certainly in keeping with the British experience in the Great War. Given the rudimentary technology of the time, however, it soon became apparent when war came that bombing accuracy made all the airpower strategies, so different in theory, much the same in actual practice.  Trenchard left behind few published writings that can trace his thoughts. In “Aspects of Service Aviation,” Army Quarterly 2 (April 1921): 10-21, he lays out some of the basic ideas noted above. In addi- tion, perhaps out of a bureaucratic imperative, he called for an air force in being t