. That attribute should not be wasted on targets that can be handled by other means, such as artillery or armored forces. He views land forces as becoming more supportive of air operations, rather than the other way around. Moreover, he says that soldiers have begun to realize this change, though they will not acknowledge it publicly. Overall, this is a most interesting book from a different perspective.  The specific issue of command and control is examined in Rear Admiral James A. Winnefeld and Dana J. Johnson, Joint Air Operations: Pursuit of Unity in Command and Control, 1942-1991 (Annapolis, Md.: Naval Institute Press, 1993). Command and control of all air assets in a given theater has been a thorny issue for decades. Given not only the normal interservice rivalry that routinely exists, but the added compli- eation of differing views on airpower between airmen of different ser- vices, this problem should not be a surprise. The authors examine a series of case studies—Midway, Guadalcanal, Korea, Vietnam, and Desert Storm—to illustrate how these differences of opinion and focus have negatively affected air operations. Their suggested solution is a call for a component air commander who is in charge of all air assets in a the- ater—Air Force, Navy, Marine, Army, and allied—so as to more effi- ciently and effectively apply what are generally limited but highly potent air assets. They argue, convincingly, that in times of fiscal austerity, which usually occur after every war, there is a tendency for services to become overly defensive and wary about their prerogatives; but the new environment will not allow such parochialism, “jointness” is the new watchword for future air operations.  Anything by Air Vice-Marshal R. A. “Tony” Mason will be of interest; he is one of the most intelligent, rigorous, and creative airpower thinkers we have today. In Air Power: A Centennial Appraisal (London: Brassey’s, 1995), Mason covers a wide area. Indeed, it is not, as the title sug