equently as a guru of maneuver warfare, there has been surprisingly little critical analysis of his theories. The best critique thus far is Lieutenant Colonel David K. Fadok, “John Boyd and John Warden: Airpower’s Quest for Strategic Paralysis,” in Paths of Heaven. In addition, Grant Hammond, a professor at the Air War College in Alabama, is currently working on a biography of Boyd that will explore his ideas in depth.  Another airman who has thought deeply about strategic airpower, and who also focused on enemy leadership as the key target set, is Colonel John Warden. Like Boyd a fighter pilot and combat veteran, Warden began a serious and sustained study of air warfare while a stu- dent at the National War College in 1986. The thesis he wrote that year was soon published and is still a standard text at Air University, The Air Campaign: Planning for Combat (Washington: Pergamon, 1989). Although this book has had a major impact on Air Force thinking, it is relatively modest in its calls for strategic airpower. That would come later. A subsequent assignment in the Pentagon put Warden in an ideal location when Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in April 1990. Putting his theories into practice, Warden designed an air campaign that called for strategic attacks against Iraq’s centers of gravity. The device he used to illustrate his plan was a target bull’s-eye consisting of five concentric rings, with leadership at the center—the most important target set while also the most fragile—and armed forces as the outermost ring—the least important but also the most hardened. Warden posited that the enemy leader was the key to resistance, if he could be killed, captured, or iso- lated, then the entire country would be incapacitated. This model is explained in his essays “Employing Air Power in the Twenty-first Cen- tury” in Richard H. Schultz, Jr., and Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr., The Future of Air Power in the Aftermath of the Gulf War (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1992)