s of air attack, Rear Admiral James A. Winnefeld on joint air operations, Hallion himself on the importance of the revolution in precision weapons, Colonel Phil Meilinger on air targeting strategies, Alan Stephens on restructuring air forces after the Cold War, and Fred Frostie on the revolution in military affairs occasioned by airpower, and its effect on future war. This book is the best anthology to date, and is the standard by which other such efforts should be judged.  Conclusion  The body of literature surrounding airpower theory is fairly large, even if uneven in quality. It is somewhat surprising that so much as been written about a new kind of war that has existed for such a short time. Still, there are some broad gaps. The definitive history of the Air Corps Tactical School and its impact on the employment of U.S. airpower in World War II needs an author. There are pieces of this story scattered about, but the school was so important it demands a fuller treatment. Similarly, the ACTS counterpart in Britain, the Royal Air Force Staff Col- lege, needs to be examined. It is not clear if the Staff College played as crucial a role in the RAF as the ACTS did in the Air Corps, but even prov- ing the negative would be useful. I suspect, however, the Staff College was a key part of the story and did have enormous influence in formu- lating and then disseminating air doctrine not only throughout the RAF, but throughout the empire as well.  Along these lines, the ideas of Hugh Trenchard and Jack Slessor have been insufficiently explored. Both men left behind enormous amounts of material that beg the attention of researchers. Trenchard has had only one biographer and Slessor none, while their theories have attracted only seattered articles. There is much work to be done on these two figures.  Giulio Douhet has also been neglected, though this is due partly to language difficulties. Surprisingly, few of Douhet’s many writings have been translated into English. For exam