xtremely prolific: he published three major books on aviation, as well as dozens of articles. His first book, Our Air Force: The Key to National Defense (New York: Dutton, 1921), was written shortly after the war and is surprisingly mild compared to his later works. He describes airpower as a revolutionary weapon, but one that would take its place alongside the other services. Foreseeing future war largely in terms of what he had just seen in France, Mitchell proposed the use of airpower as a major contributor to land or sea campaigns—not as a substitute for them.  By 1925 he had changed his views dramatically. Disgusted with what he viewed as conservatism and parochialism, he began increasingly to attack the Navy and his own superiors in the Army. In 1925 he published Winged Defense (New York: Putnam, 1925). In it, he called for an inde- pendent air force whose core would be based on strategic bombing, and a less stress on surface warfare. His attacks on the Navy were especially harsh.  Four years after leaving uniform, Mitchell’s Skyways (Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1930), appeared. There was little new here, although by this time his ideas regarding the decisiveness of strategic bombing, the diminishing importance of sea power, and need for an independent air force, are most pronounced.  It must be remembered that Mitchell wrote to convince the Ameri- can public, not his uniformed colleagues. As a result, most of his pub- lished writings have been categorized—with some justification—-as mere propaganda and special pleading. He did, however, write an important doctrine manual, not for public consumption, that more truly reflects his ideas on how he actually believed airpower should be employed in war. “Notes on the Multi-Motored Bombardment Group, Day and Night,” writ- ten and distributed in 1922, is a clear and lucid explanation of Mitchell’s operational concepts. He states here that aircraft, although generally complementing surface operations, can at times domina