ng to Win: Coercion in War (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1996). Pape is a social scientist who is well versed in his disci- pline’s models and methodologies. As a result, he has adopted the lexi- con that talks of war strategies in terms of coercion, denial, punishment, and risk. Basically, the coercion school argues that the key to victory is affecting the mind of the enemy: he must be convinced that victory is impossible or would cost too much to achieve. A denial strategy, on the other hand, focuses on an enemy’s capability. If an enemy is disarmed, it is largely irrelevant if his will is broken or not. Theoretically, the choice of a coercive versus a denial strategy will have a great impact on the types of targets selected by an air planner. In practice, however, it is difficult to separate targets so cleanly: almost every target will have both a coercive and denial effect on an enemy. The issue thus becomes one of emphasis. Boyd and Warden come down on the side of coercion; Pape believes in denial.  In his theory, the object of war remains what it has been for cen- turies—the destruction of the enemy army. If that is destroyed, a coun- try is defenseless and surrender will follow. Only now, says Pape, air forces can destroy armies faster and easier than armies can kill armies. Using examples from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, and the Persian Gulf, he argues that coercion does not work, but denial does. The main criti- cism of Pape’s theory centers on his methodology. As noted above, it is virtually impossible to separate coercion from denial targets. In all the wars that Pape discusses, both types of strategies were quite obviously being employed simultaneously. It is thus impossible to confirm the  MILITARY HISTORY «x 497  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 32 --- PHILLIP S$. MEILINGER——  opinion that, for example, Saddam Hussein surr