n these two figures.  Giulio Douhet has also been neglected, though this is due partly to language difficulties. Surprisingly, few of Douhet’s many writings have been translated into English. For example, the Italian wrote articles on aviation as early as 1910; it would be fascinating and important to know what he thought at that early date. He also carried on extensive corre-  500 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 35 --- a — ~__=——- Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  spondence with his military contemporaries, aircraft builders, and mag- azines. The “Recapitulation” that appears in translations of Command of the Air contains only Douhet’s responses to criticisms—the criticisms themselves have never been published. Douhet also kept an extensive diary during the First World War that has never been translated. Finally, and most intriguingly, the 1921 edition of “Command of the Air” con- tained a one-hundred page appendix that did not appear in the 1927 ver- sion; it has never been translated. There is a huge mine here waiting to be tapped. One can easily imagine a multivolume project containing the collected writings of Giulio Douhet.  Language barriers have also reduced our understanding of French, Japanese, Russian, and to a lesser extent German airpower thinkers, especially in the interwar period. Because of the lack of translations of primary material from that era, one suspects that what has been written about the air arms of these countries has lacked depth and sufficient analysis.  The most encouraging development of late has been the great resur- gence of interest and debate on airpower issues. New technologies such as precision weapons, stealth and electronic sensors, have dramatically altered the way air forces fight. This has in turn spawned a debate of unusually high tone and sophistication. It can only be hop