would more quickly and accurately determine their positions and possible intentions: “aircraft will destroy surprise, and therefore destroy strategy.” This was a prescient preview of the First World War. He also noted that aircraft would be very effective in terror- izing “savage races,” thus allowing easier government control in colonial possessions. This, too, was an accurate prediction of how the Royal Air Force would be used for imperial policing duties during the interwar period.  Other writers were less far-sighted. For example, the usually open- minded Homer Lea, in “The Aeroplane in War,” Harper’s Weekly, 20 August 1910, pp. 11, 36, and 27 August 1910, pp. 11-13, asserted confi- dently that aircraft could never be used as weapons of war because their use “is incompatible with organized and stable governments.” He stum- bled on, finally concluding that not even reconnaissance would be pos- sible from the air, because airplanes would be traveling too quickly to see clearly. A slightly less negative appraisal can be found in George Aston, Sea, Land, and Air Strategy (London: John Murray, 1914). Aston believed aircraft would have little influence on war in the near term, but he did register a caveat: if in the future aircraft numbered in the “thou- sands rather than the hundreds” he might change his mind. Hudson Maxim, brother of the inventor of the machine gun, also wrote about air- power in Defenseless America (New York: Hearst’s, 1915), and, contrary to most, pointed out the physical limitations of aerial bombing. He noted, for example, that talk of the destructiveness of bombardment was exaggerated; bombs first had to hit the intended building, penetrate its roof, and then explode for there to be any appreciable damage. These were far more serious challenges than most realized. In this he was cor- rect; yet, it is amazing how few writers on the subject realized it.  F. W. Lanchester was an eclectic engineer and thinker who is best known for his “N Squared La