: The Role of Air Power Theory in the Evolution and Fate of the U.S. Air Force (New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction, 1994).  The failures of airpower doctrine in Vietnam are bluntly described in Donald J. Mrozek, Air Power and the Ground War in Vietnam: Ideas and Actions (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1988). Another work that is highly critical of the USAF’s intellectual response to the Vietnam War is Lieutenant Colonel David J. Dean, The Air Force Role in Low-Intensity Conflict (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1986). Both of these works argue that the lessons of Vietnam were ignored: the emphasis was maintained on expensive, complex fighter aircraft, and official doctrine continued to ignore low-intensity conflict. A far more hopeful assessment is made by David R. Mets, Land-Based Air Power in Third World Crises (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1986). Mets looks at several examples: the Mayagues affair, the Bay of Pigs, the Yom Kippur War of 1973, and various incidents in sub-Saharan Africa. He concludes that a mix of factors such as level of visibility, commitment, risk, range, destructive capability, and overall flexibility give airpower, on balance, excellent leverage for use in future crises.  Nonetheless, the war in Vietnam did have a major effect on airmen. All the premises and assumptions of the past four decades seemed to evaporate in the skies over North Vietnam. The primary response of air- men was to turn away from any discussion of strategic theory—it seemed of little relevance to wars like Vietnam, and nuclear theory was now in the hands of civilian academics—to that of the tactical employ- ment of airpower. The most important of such treatments, largely because it was written by a senior airman who had thought deeply on the subject, was General William W. Momyer, Air Power in Three Wars (Washington: GPO, 1978). Momyer was one of the brightest officers of his generation. A fighter pilot in World War II, he was also the comman-