y of airpower theory and trace its evolution during this century. The compendium produced by the U.S. Air Force School of Advanced Airpower Studies (SAAS), The  The Journal of Military History 64 (April 2000): 407-502 © Society for Military History x 467  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 2 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER— = =< ———— ——  Paths of Heaven: The Evolution of Airpower Theory (Maxwell Air Force Base [AFB], Ala.: Air University Press, 1997), is an excellent start. It offers chapters on Giulio Douhet, Hugh Trenchard and the Royal Air Force, Billy Mitchell, the Air Corps Tactical School, U.S. naval aviators, various lesser European thinkers prior to World War II, Alexander de Seversky, the nuclear theorists of the postwar era, John Boyd, and John Warden. It also has topical chapters dealing with airpower in low- intensity conflict, airpower and the ground battle, airpower in NATO, and Soviet air theory in the aftermath of Vietnam. It coneludes with a look ahead to space power theory. The contributors were instructors or students at SAAS, with the exception of the author of the concluding essay, I. B. Holley, Jr. The quality of the essays, as is typical of such works, is somewhat uneven, and there are gaps in the story—there is no discussion of Japanese or Chinese airpower, for example—but nonethe- less, The Paths of Heaven remains the place to begin a study of airpower theory.  The best account of the evolution of airpower theory and doctrine in the United States is Robert Frank Futrell, Ideas, Concepts, Doctrine: Basic Thinking in the United States Air Force, 1907-1960, 2 vols. (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1989). This is an enormously detailed, thorough, and insightful work. Futrell begins with the early days of aviation, showing how the U.S. Army began its slow and painful appreciation of the new air weapon. He reviews the “Mitchell era” and its influence on the Air Corps and the Air Corps Tactical School, where U.S. air doctrine was for