dern Strategy, and Maclsaac’s essay in the second edition of Makers of Modern Strategy.  An interesting and provocative study was done by Raymond R. Flugel, “United States Air Power Doctrine: A Study of the Influence of William Mitchell and Giulio Douhet at the Air Corps Tactical School, 1921-1935,” unpublished PhD dissertation, University of Oklahoma, 1965. Flugel undertook a textual analysis and comparison of the writings of Douhet and Mitchell and concluded that Mitchell was heavily influ- enced by the Italian, almost to the point of plagiarism. Mitchell had indeed met Douhet in 1922, and an unpublished translation of the Ital- ian’s “Command of the Air” was available to Mitchell at the same time. However, Flugel’s methodology is suspect, thus his more explosive accu- sations remain unproven.  Air Corps Tactical School  The roots of American strategic bombing theory go back to World War I. Edgar Gorrell, an officer on the Air Service staff in France during the war, wrote a lengthy memo in November 1917 offering a theory of strategic bombing. An overlooked but remarkably prescient document, it foretold to a great extent the tack American air theory would take for the next twenty years. The Gorrell memo is reproduced in Maurer Maurer, ed., The U.S. Air Service in World War [, 4 vols. (Washington: GPO, 1978-79), 2: 141-51.  I. B. Holley, Jr., wrote one of the earliest treatments of the evolution of air doctrine in the Air Service in Ideas and Weapons (New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1953). The title of this work was well  MILITARY HISTORY x 475  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 10 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER = ———— = ——  chosen. Airmen are often so concerned with the development of tech- nology, with their aircraft, that they fail to think through carefully what they intend to do with those aircraft once they have obtained them. Tak- ing the A