rators” have downplayed the emphasis given to the fairly young “thinkers” at ACTS, arguing that they have gained a dis- proportionate share of attention simply because they wrote all the books, a close look reveals a real and significant impact. When in 1941 General “Hap” Arnold, the Commanding General of the Army Air Forces, called for an air war plan to defeat Germany, he designated four former ACTS instructors to write it. Not coincidentally, their product, AWPD-1, looked very similar to the plans they had drawn up at Maxwell Field a few years earlier.  The official history of the Tactical School is Robert T. Finney’s “His- tory of the Air Corps Tactical School, 1920-1940,” Air Force Historical Study (1955; reprinted, Washington: Air Force History Office, 1992). This workmanlike administrative history is useful for tracking the per- sonnel who attended and taught at the School, as well as the titles of the courses they taught, the hours allotted to various topics, ete., but gives little insight into the ideas actually discussed and formulated there. More insight into the theory taught at Maxwell can be found in Thomas H. Greer, “The Development of Air Doctrine in the Army Air Arm, 1917-  476 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 11 --- =<— ~ Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  1941,” Air Force Historical Study (1955; reprinted, Washington: Air Force History Office, 1985). Although dated and lacking depth, it nonetheless serves as a useful starting point. The best overall treatment to date is Lieutenant Colonel Peter R. Faber’s “Interwar US Army Avia- tion and the Air Corps Tactical School: Incubators of American Air- power,” in Paths of Heaven. This nicely written, insightful, and important treatment clearly traces the development of strategic doc- trine, while also placing it in its contemporary context.  One of the earl