o concerned with the development of tech- nology, with their aircraft, that they fail to think through carefully what they intend to do with those aircraft once they have obtained them. Tak- ing the American experience in World War I as a case study, Holley shows that the crucial link between ideas and weapons was missing. This was largely because there was no process established within the Air Ser- vice to gather data, evaluate it, and then modify existing procedures. Holley’s advice on the need to create such a process has too often been ignored, but the Air Corps Tactical School (ACTS) was definitely an attempt to eliminate this problem.  ACTS served as the intellectual center of the Air Corps between the wars. As with any army branch school, attendance was required for air- men aspiring to higher rank and command. Thus, virtually all of the top American air commanders of World War I] attended the ACTS, and many served there as instructors. Exhibiting a surprising degree of indepen- dence from the War Department hierarchy, the instructors at ACTS devel- oped, refined, and promulgated the doctrine of high-altitude, daylight, formation, precision bombing of the enemy’s industrial infrastructure. This doctrine viewed the enemy’s society as an “industrial web” in which all major structural components were interconnected. If key nodes within the web were destroyed or neutralized, the entire system would be affected and perhaps even paralyzed. To accomplish this dislocation would require an air force composed of heavy bombers and commanded by air- men—after all, only someone trained and educated in the intricacies of air warfare could be expected to plan and conduct an air campaign. It was this doctrine that the Air Corps took with it into World War II.  Although some “operators” have downplayed the emphasis given to the fairly young “thinkers” at ACTS, arguing that they have gained a dis- proportionate share of attention simply because they wrote all the books, a clos