mbat during the war, patrolling forests looking for fires, and participating in the Transcontinental Relia- bility Test. Somewhat autobiographical, these books also speak to an era of innocence and civility that is foreign to us today. Arnold also wrote Airmen and Aircraft: An Introduction to Aeronautics (New York: Ronald, 1926) and This Flying Game (New York: Funk and Wagnalls, 1936), the latter co-authored with the future general, Ira Eaker. Both of these books were pitched at a young or unsophisticated audience. They relate the history of flight and the stories of famous airmen, and tell how pilots are trained in the Army, and how airplanes are used commercially. This is routine stuff. There is very little discussion of airpower theory as such, but that changed when Arnold and Eaker co-authored two other books, Winged Warfare (New York: Harper, 1941) and Army Flyer (New York: Harper, 1942). Written during the war, they served as primers for the layman by laying out clearly and effectively the more erudite ideas on air theory that had been formulated at ACTS. All of the key elements of American strategie air theory are contained here: the primacy of air superiority, airpower’s inherently offensive nature, the need for central- ized control of air assets by airmen, the need for a close and symbiotic relationship with the civilian aeronautical industry, the utility of trans- port aircraft, and, most importantly, a discussion of air targeting. Arnold and Eaker conclude that the destruction of any enemy’s industrial infra- structure would have profound effects on both its capability and will to fight.  David E. Johnson, Fast Tanks and Heavy Bombers (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1998), attempts to explain the U.S. Army’s  MILITARY HISTORY x 479  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 14 --- PITILLIP S. MEILINGER = SSS os ——————  unpreparedness for