t see Phillip S. Meilinger, “John C. Slessor and the Genesis of Air Interdiction,” Royal United Services Insti- tute Journal 140 (August 1995): 43-48.  The European Theorists  There were other Europeans who thought and wrote about airpower employment. For an overview, see James L. Corum’s, “Airpower Thought in Continental Europe Between the Wars,” in Paths of Heaven. Corum looks at the Italians Amedeo Mecozzi and Italo Balbo, who are usually overshadowed by their more famous countryman, Giulio Douhet. Corum argues, however, that Mecozzi and Balbo had more actual influence on the Italian Air Force than did Douhet. Corum also covers events in Ger- many, France, and the Soviet Union prior to World War II, noting that in all three countries much thought was given to the idea of strategic bomb- ing, but in practice, all tended towards an emphasis on tactical aviation. For a more in-depth look at the roots of Lufwaffe doctrine, see John H. Morrow, Building German Airpower, 1909-1914 (Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press, 1976), and Corum’s The Luftwaffe: Creating the Operational Air War, 1918-1940 (Lawrence: University Press of Kansas, 1997). A unique and invaluable source is Corum and Richard R. Muller, The Luftwaffe’s Way of War: German Air Force Doctrine, 1911-1945 (Baltimore: Nautical and Aviation Publishers, 1998). This is a collection of translated Luftwaffe doctrine manuals and documents that provides an unusually clear and comprehensive look at the official doctrine. The commentary and analysis provided by Corum and Muller are also very useful.  General Nikolai N. Golovine was a Russian expatriate who lived and wrote in France between the wars. His continental background gave an unusual twist to his ideas, as evidenced by his Air Strategy (London: Gale and Polden, 1936). Golovine, like many airmen, was a technological determinist, who believed airpower was the epitome of advanced technology. He especially advocated the importance of speed, seeing it as the gua