File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 1 --- Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  The Historiography of Airpower: Theory and Doctrine  we  Phillip S. Meilinger  HE history of military theory and doctrine is a subset of military his-  tory. Theory and doctrine deal with the realm of ideas, not opera- tions, and partly because of this, few people have been inclined to write about this esoteric subject. As a result, tracing the history of ideas has proven to be a fairly barren field. The problem is far worse regarding air- power. Airmen, from any country, have seldom been accused of being thinkers, and precious few have taken up the pen to write down their thoughts on how airpower should be employed in war. Added to this is the relatively short time airpower has existed: all in the past century. As a result, there have been a limited number of books, articles, and man- uals written to date that have dealt with the theory and doctrine of air- power.  The aim of this essay is to enumerate and assess those works of air- power theory and doctrine, to reveal the historiography of ideas on air- power employment. The subject of nuclear deterrence theory and its associated doctrines of mutual assured destruction, strategic sufficiency, and the like is a separate and enormous field that will not be discussed here. Similarly, I will not discuss space, a field of growing importance and interest. In addition, | admit to a major limitation: the items covered here are only those written or translated into English. There are doubt- less many more important works in French, German, Russian, and other languages. Those I must leave to someone more capable.  Overall Treatments  Only one book attempts to give a history of airpower theory and trace its evolution during this century. The compendium produced by the U.S. Air Force School of Advanced Airpower Studies (SAAS), The  The Journal of Military History 64 (Apr