ower in the Twenty-first Cen- tury” in Richard H. Schultz, Jr., and Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr., The Future of Air Power in the Aftermath of the Gulf War (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1992), and “The Enemy as a System,” Airpower Jour-  496 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 31 --- — a = — Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  nal 9 (Spring 1995): 40-55. An excellent analysis and critique can be found in Fadok’s essay in Paths of Heaven. An examination that puts Warden in the broader context of airpower theory is David R. Mets, The Air Campaign: John Warden and the Classical Airpower Theorists (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1998).  It is apparent that both Boyd and Warden have turned away from the economic emphasis of previous airpower theorists. Instead, they focus on the enemy’s leadership. However, whereas Boyd seeks to disrupt the process of the enemy’s leadership, Warden wishes instead to disrupt its form. The epitome of such an air strategy was the Gulf War. Air strikes against the Iraqi communications network, road and rail system, and electrical power grid made it extremely difficult, physically, for Saddam to control his military forces, but it also induced enormous confusion and uncertainty into his decision-making process. His OODA Loop was expanded dramatically, and its cycle time was slowed accordingly. For an excellent discussion that takes the ideas of Boyd and Warden to a higher level, see Major Jason Barlow, Strategic Paralysis: An Airpower Theory for the Present (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1994).  A counter to the idea of targeting leadership is given by Robert A. Pape, Bombing to Win: Coercion in War (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1996). Pape is a social scientist who is well versed in his disci- pline’s models and methodologies. As a result, he has adopted the