ion—in a dispassionate and enlightening fashion. In truth, this book is an overlooked gem, probably the best work on airpower the- ory in the post-World War II era.  Another sophisticated and impressive work advancing the premise of “peace through nuclear airpower” was written by Marshal of the RAF Sir John Slessor. He had come a long way since Airpower and Armies. His book, Strategy for the West (London: Cassell, 1954), is a well-written and cogent argument for a strong nuclear air force to ensure deterrence. He followed this up with another book on the same theme, The Great Deterrent (London: Cassell, 1957).  Lesser works that advance a similar premise include: Air Vice-Mar- shal E. J. Kingston-McCloughry, War in Three Dimensions (London: Jonathan Cape, 1949); Alexander de Seversky, Air Power: Key to Sur- vival (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1950); Asher Lee, Air Power (New York: Praeger, 1955); and Air Marshal Sir Robert Saundby, Air Bom- bardment: The Story of Its Development (New York: Harper’s, 1961). An interesting approach was taken by George H. Quester in Deterrence Before Hiroshima (New York: John Wiley, 1966). Quester recognized that nuclear weapons were the underpinnings of deterrence policy, but he argued that conventional airpower played—or attempted to play—a similar role prior to World War I]. He went on to speculate on how con- ventional deterrence could continue to work in the nuclear age.  As the U.S. became increasingly embroiled in Vietnam, there were those who decried the turn away from massive retaliation towards “flex- ible response.” In this view, the West’s greatest strength was being thrown aside, and we were instead playing the enemy’s game—a game we could not win. This alarmist view, reminiscent of those who called for victory through airpower in World War II, is typified by Alexander de Seversky, America—Too Young to Die! (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1961), which is even more bombastic than his earlier works; General Nathan F. Twining (forme