wards a reliance on nuclear weapons; they would be, they would have to be, the equalizer in a confrontation with Soviet and Chinese mass. Ross painstakingly goes through the series of plans and their assumptions. His conclusions are sobering: not only were the plans themselves ill-conceived and hastily cobbled together, they relied on a weapon, the nuclear bombers of Strate- gic Air Command, that was a wooden sword. Until at least the middle of the Korean War there were a very small number of nuclear weapons and an equally small number of aircraft modified to carry them. To a dis- tressing extent, our nuclear deterrent was merely a bluff.  The most thoughtful treatment of airpower’s role in the early nuclear era is Stefan T. Possony, Strategic Air Power for Dynamic Security (Washington: Infantry Journal Press, 1949). Possony is reluctant to put all his eggs in the nuclear basket, but he does maintain that in a major war against the primary enemy, the Soviet Union, nuclear weapons would play the dominant role. The strength of this book is its clear and detailed explanation of various strategic targeting theories. It has been said that targeting is the key to airpower, because although all of an  MILITARY HISTORY x 489  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 24 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER = == = — — =  enemy country may be open to air attack, not all targets can or should be struck. Knowing which targets are more crucial than others is the essence of air strategy. Yet, air theorists have disagreed, strongly, over this fundamental issue. Possony discusses the pros and cons of various air targeting schemes—population/morale, industry, fielded forces, and transportation—in a dispassionate and enlightening fashion. In truth, this book is an overlooked gem, probably the best work on airpower the- ory in the post-World War II era.  Another sophisticated and impressi