ated that this cause and effect linkage was not nearly so neat or obvious. Watts therefore calls for a more humanistic and cultural-based method of air doctrine formulation to replace the earlier, flawed mechanistic approach.  Stephen L. McFarland’s America’s Pursuit of Precision Bombing, 1910-1945 (Washington: Smithsonian, 1995), illuminates a very impor- tant aspect of the ACTS story. One of the key tenets of Air Corps doc- trine was “precision,” yet the actual bombing campaigns conducted during the war were far from precise. It is common to assert—as did Watts above—that ACTS thinkers merely wished away this issue in their quest to develop a theory that would separate them from ground officers. McFarland shows that this was not the case. The men at Maxwell clearly understood the importance of precision to the effectiveness of their operations, and they spent much time compiling data on various types of bombs, bombsights, aircraft platforms, desired altitudes, and types of targets. In an era before computers, they nonetheless collected an enor- mous amount of data that gave a degree of specificity to their theories. Even if the experiences in war were to prove far different, ACTS person- nel at least made a serious attempt to predict what their doctrine could and could not accomplish.  Unfortunately, although the works cited above give important details and insights into parts of the ACTS story, they all lack comprehensive- ness and depth. A complete intellectual history of this crucial institution remains to be written.  The U.S. Army was responsible for approving Air Corps doctrine manuals, and perhaps the two most important of these documents were FM 1-5, “Employment of Aviation of the Army,” first published in April 1940 and revised in January 1943; and the manual that replaced it, FM 100-20, “Command and Employment of Air Power,” published in July 1943. FM 1-5 was a straightforward description of airpower’s various strategic and tactical missions, including b