roduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 27 --- = : “= Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  whatever conduct had been thought objectionable. The wielder of the ratchet may temporarily ease off on the pressure to allow the victim time to think things over. If necessary, force could be reapplied at a slightly higher level to see if that would gain the desired results. Such a scenario presumes the adversaries are “rational actors” who understand the sig- nals being sent back and forth. In reality, war seldom fosters rational behavior. Schelling’s theory was tried in Vietnam and found wanting. Yet, the theoretical logic of his ideas has lingered; indeed, it seemed to make a comeback in the airwar over Kosovo. It will be interesting to see if future policy makers will look more favorably on the strategy of gradual escalation.  The Current Debate  The rest of the world was not idle while the U.S. endured the Vietnam agony and recovery. In Australia, airmen faced a problem not unlike that of the U.S. in the years prior to the Second World War: how to defend a large country with a long coastline on a modest budget. The Royal Aus- tralian Air Force (RAAF) posited a need for long-range, mobile, and flex- ible strike forces, qualities that obviously pointed towards airpower. The RAAF had the virtue of a vigorous and intellectually active core of indi- viduals who thought and wrote seriously about the role of airpower in Australian defense. One of these men was Group Captain Gary Waters, who wrote The Architect of Victory: Air Campaigns for Australia (Can- berra: Australian National University, 1991). Waters emphasized three distinct but interrelated air campaigns that would be necessary in the event of war. These were the “prime” campaign for air superiority, the “separate” campaign of strategic bombardment, and the “force multi- plier” campaign of air cooperation with surface forces. The most impor- tant of these was