t Slide Rule: British Air Strategy, 1914-1939 (London: Croom Helm, 1976); and the first volume of the official history by Sir Charles Webster and Noble Frankland, The Strategic Air Offensive Against Germany, 1939-1945 (London: HMSO, 1961).  The counterpart in Britain to the Air Corps Tactical School was the RAF Staff College at Andover. Founded by Trenchard in 1922, who called it “the cradle of our brain,” it was a year-long school where the most promising air officers and some of their brethren from the other services studied war and the role of airpower in it. Regrettably, we do not yet have an adequate history of the Staff College, largely because of clumsy record keeping at the time. A few odd pieces of lectures, exercises, and admin- istrative notes survive in various archives that give us only a general impression of what was taught there. The only treatment thus far is an article, based on his master’s thesis, by Allan D. English, “The RAF Staff College and the Evolution of British Strategic Bombing Policy, 1922-1929,” Journal of Strategic Studies 16 (September 1993): 408-31. Much more needs to be done here, but the limitations on sources may prove insurmountable.  Besides the Staff College, RAF officers also learned the details of their profession from the official doctrine manuals. The first of these, CD-22, appeared in 1922 and was titled simply “Operations.” Echoing Trenchard’s beliefs, CD-22 stated that air forces must cooperate effec- tively with surface forces, because often it was the destruction of the enemy army that was a campaign’s object. In addition, the manual dis- cussed in detail the conduct of strategic bombing campaigns against an enemy’s vital centers. Their object was to both disrupt the enemy’s abil- ity to conduct war and to undermine the will of its populace to continue. CD-22 was replaced in 1928 by the RAF “War Manual,” AP 1300. Revised several times during the next decade, the War Manual was a more sophis- ticated effort than its pr