oppo- nent of President Roosevelt, he argued that America was woefully unpre- pared for war, especially in the air. This was especially serious because the air had become the decisive theater of war. He called for a crash pro- gram to build up American air strength. Other books appeared during the war that also had a “victory through airpower” message. Like Sever- sky, they all overestimated the physical and psychological effects of bombing. Works in this category include: William B. Ziff, The Coming Battle of Germany (New York: Duell, Sloan and Pearce, 1941); “Auspex,” Victory From the Air (London: Geoffrey Bles, 1941); Norman Macmillan, Air Strategy (London: Hutchinson, 1941); M. J. Bernard Davy, Air Power and Civilisation (London: Allen and Unwin, 1941), which deplores air bombardment, while at the same time being in awe of its potential; Fran- cis Vivian Drake, Vertical Warfare (Garden City: Doubleday, Doran, 1943), Flight Lieutenant V. E. R. Blunt, The Use of Air Power (Harris- burg, Pa.: Military Service Publishing, 1943); Allan Michie, The Air Offen- sive Against Germany (New York: Henry Holt, 1943); and Michie again, Keep the Peace Through Air Power (New York: Henry Holt, 1944).  In the aftermath of the war, a number of writers pointed to the deci- sive results achieved by strategic bombing over Germany and Japan. The advent of nuclear weapons strongly—for a time incontestably—rein- forced this belief. Few military or political leaders stated openly that war  488 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 23 --- — “a Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  had remained unchanged and that “the bomb” was just another weapon. Numerous books were published in the decade after World War II espous- ing the thesis that war had forever changed, and that airpower—specifi- eally aircraft delivering nuclear weapons—now dominated war. It