ruction more quickly. In the two other essays contained in this same book, Air Power: Three Papers (London: Air Ministry, 1946) and written after German defeat, Trenchard merely recapitulates the key role played by the RAF in victory.  The one biography of Trenchard to date, Andrew Boyle’s Trenchard: Man of Vision (London: Collins, 1962), is a too-glowing assessment. It is, however, rich in detail and contains much discussion dispersed through- out regarding Trenchard’s thoughts on airpower. For a more focused appraisal, see Phillip S. Meilinger, “Trenchard and ‘Morale Bombing’: The Evolution of Royal Air Force Doctrine Before World War II,” Journal of Military History 60 (April 1996): 243-70.  A useful overall discussion of British air theory in the interwar period can be found in Robin Higham, The Military Intellectuals in Britain, 1918-1939 (New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1966). This book contains two chapters on the RAF: the first focuses on doctrine in general, while the second deals more specifically with indi- viduals such as P. R. C. Groves, John Slessor, E. J. Kingston-McCloughry, and James Spaight. Higham offers useful insights into the politics and inner workings of the RAF bureaucracy, but his antipathy towards Tren- chard is ill-disguised. Certainly a corrective to the hagiography of Boyle is needed, but Higham too readily accepts the accounts of Trenchard’s opponents while dismissing those of his advocates.  A highly critical account of the RAF between the wars is Scot Robert- son, The Development of RAF Bombing Doctrine, 1919-1929 (Westport, Conn.: Praeger, 1995). Robertson looks at the issue of RAF doctrine for- mulation and overall preparedness through the eyes of the Air Staff. As a result of this focus, his study of doctrine never mentions the RAF’s doc- trine manuals or the educational apparatus responsible for disseminat- ing that doctrine. Nonetheless, Robertson concludes that the air leaders talked themselves into an unproven d