n most realized. In this he was cor- rect; yet, it is amazing how few writers on the subject realized it.  F. W. Lanchester was an eclectic engineer and thinker who is best known for his “N Squared Laws” that attempt to predict casualties in war based on the number of participants. He explains these formulas and their relation to airpower in Aircraft in War: The Dawn of the Fourth Arm (London: Constable, 1916). This is a clever and thoughtful work. Lanchester sees great strategic value in aircraft, but nonetheless believes their main importance will be on the battlefield where they will work in conjunction with the three other arms, infantry, artillery, and cavalry. In this regard, however, he believes that gaining air superiority is absolutely essential, and its attainment should be airpower’s first priority at the out- break of war. In words soon to be echoed by other air advocates, he stated boldly: “the time will come when the total and irrevocable loss of  MILITARY HISTORY x 469  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 4 --- PILILLIP S. MEILINGER —  the command of the air to an enemy will be regarded as a disaster of an altogether irreparable and decisive kind.”  There were other early writers on airpower who seemed instinctively to recognize that aerial bombing would grow to dominate war, but their thoughts were inchoate and lacking specifics. In this regard, their works more closely resembled the fiction of H. G. Wells and Jules Verne than those of military theorists. Examples of these early glimmerings of strate- gic thought were Claude Graham-White, The Aeroplane in War (Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1912), and Aircraft in the Great War (Chicago: McClurg, 1915); Frederick A. Talbot, Aeroplanes and Dirigi- bles of War (London: William Heinemann, 1915), and Edgar C. Middle- ton, Airfare of To-Day and of the Future (London: Constable, 1917).  It is surpr