in Paths of Heaven. This nicely written, insightful, and important treatment clearly traces the development of strategic doc- trine, while also placing it in its contemporary context.  One of the early treatments of Tactical School theory was written by William Sherman, an instructor at the school in the early 1920s. His Air Warfare (New York: Ronald, 1926) is largely based on his lectures and thus gives an insight into Air Service thinking at the time. Sherman saw warfare still being decided by potent armies, but he saw their success as increasingly determined by the amount of air support they received. He did, however, predict that strategic bombing would become more impor- tant in the years ahead. Significantly, he rejected the idea of bombing population centers, but instead called for the targeting of the enemy’s industrial infrastructure. Indeed, one can see in Sherman’s writings an embryonic concept of the industrial-web theory that was fleshed out in greater detail over the following decade.  Major General Donald Wilson, an instructor at the Tactical School from 1931 to 1935, was one of the men responsible for expanding the ideas Sherman proposed. In a rather self-serving attempt to garner the main credit for devising the theory of industrial-web bombing, he reprinted one of his tactical school lectures: “Origins of a Theory of Air Strategy,” Aerospace Historian 18 (Spring 1971): 19-25. This indeed gives an excellent account of the Tactical School’s bombing theory and is therefore an unusual primary source. It must be kept in mind, how- ever, that there were several other important officers at Maxwell at the same time who were also instrumental in codifying this doctrine: Hal George, “Santy” Fairchild, Robert Webster, Larry Kuter, and “Possum” Hansell. The latter, Major General Haywood S. Hansell, Jr., was one of the “bomber mafia” instructors at Maxwell as well as one of the authors of AWPD-1. Although his book, The Air Plan that Defeated Hitler (Atlanta: Hi