of transformation was occurring in war as a result of the airplane. Although it sounds paradoxical, there was a belief that the airplane, because of its ability to dominate whole countries and their populations, had made war less likely. Airpower was thus a civilizing and peaceful influence on the world. Later disappoint- ments and intrusions of reality should not obscure this earlier and more benevolent vision.  The Royal Air Force  The Royal Air Force (RAF) was formed on 1 April 1918 by a govern- ment reacting to German air attacks that had caused near-panic among the British population. Although the material damage and casualties caused by the German Zeppelins and Gotha bombers were minor, the psychological terror they evoked was enormous. The memory of the public’s reaction to bombing was to stick in the minds of British political and military leaders throughout the interwar period and would have pro- found effects on strategy and policy. It became an article of faith in the RAF, and to some extent the British government, that the object of strategic bombing was to break the will of the enemy. The brief experi- ence of the Great War seemed to indicate this was indeed achievable. It was not until the far more intensive bombing campaigns of World War II  480 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 15 --- =--— Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  that it was discovered that initial panic gives way quickly to mere fear and then to resignation.  The man chosen to lead the new RAF was Hugh Trenchard, a former infantry officer who had come to aviation late in life. Save for a brief stint as commander of the British bombing force in France at the end of the war, Trenchard was to remain head of the RAF until 1929. Termed “the father of the RAF,” Trenchard has attained near mythic proportions in the literature and traditions of the R