ions the RAF’s doc- trine manuals or the educational apparatus responsible for disseminat- ing that doctrine. Nonetheless, Robertson concludes that the air leaders talked themselves into an unproven doctrinal concept based on faith and mirror imaging rather than on empirical evidence. Worse, they had no established process for testing their doctrine; as a result, they were unable to identify and correct their weaknesses before the harsh reali- ties of war swept over them. There is much truth to this interpretation. It is useful to remember, however, that on average the RAF received less  482 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 17 --- Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  than 15 percent of the British defense budget between the wars. Given that the other services, who received the lion’s share of funds, were sim- ilarly unprepared for war, it is small wonder the paltry sums allotted to the RAF were insufficient to ensure a first-rate force.  There are several works that deal with the history of the RAF and which also include a discussion of air theory and doctrine. The best of these are: Malcolm Smith, British Air Strategy Between the Wars (Oxford: Clarendon, 1984); H. Montgomery Hyde, British Air Policy Between the Wars, 1918-1939 (London: Heinemann, 1976); Uri Bialer, The Shadow of the Bomber: The Fear of Air Attack and British Politics, 1932-1939 (London: Royal Historical Society, 1980); Neville Jones, The Beginnings of Strategic Air Power (London: Frank Cass, 1987); John James, who wrote a quirky but interesting study titled The Paladins: A Social History of the RAF (London: Macdonald, 1990); Barry D. Powers, Strategy Without Slide Rule: British Air Strategy, 1914-1939 (London: Croom Helm, 1976); and the first volume of the official history by Sir Charles Webster and Noble Frankland, The Strategic Air Offensive Against G