ne. Although the doctrine necessary to effectively employ these carriers as powerful, independent strike forces had not been codi- fied at the time of Pearl Harbor, the ground work had been expertly and carefully laid. In less than a year, the doctrine needed to employ the “fast carrier task forces” had been devised and implemented.  The British experience with naval aviation was quite different. When the RAF was established in 1918 it included all sea-based air assets pre- viously assigned to the Royal Navy. The doctrine of the Fleet Air Arm (FAA) was thus under the purview of the RAF. This was an unhappy arrangement that produced very poor results. In 1937 the FAA was returned to the Royal Navy. The best account of this story and the doc- trine of the FAA is found in Geoffrey Till, Air Power and the Royal Navy, 1914-1945 (London: Jane’s, 1979).  World War II and Postwar Era  Alexander P. de Seversky had been a Russian fighter pilot in World War I, and had emigrated to the U.S. shortly thereafter. He formed his own aircraft company and developed some original and important designs, including the P-35, the ancestor of the P-47 “Thunderbolt.” As the war approached, Seversky increasingly turned his attention to writ- ing about the use of airpower, and in 1942 he published Victory Through Air Power (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1942). This was an enor- mously important book that was a huge best seller: chosen as a Book of the Month Club selection, it was read by over five million people and was even made into an animated motion picture by Walt Disney.  Despite his experiences designing fighter aircraft, Seversky had become a dedicated enthusiast for strategic bombing. Written after the battles of Norway and Crete when airpower had dominated events on the surface, but before the costly struggle for air superiority over Germany,  MILITARY HISTORY * 487  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meil