party. This social science lexicon may be off-putting to some, but once past that, the ideas contained here are first-rate. The authors argue that the geopoliti- cal environment of the new century will emphasize—at least for the West—the lack of major threats to national interests, coalition opera- tions, an increasing role for nonstate actors, and a growing concern for minimizing casualties—on both sides. In such an environment the coer- ceive use of airpower should play an increasingly important role.  Anthologies on Modern Airpower  Both the RAF and the Royal Australian Air Force have periodic con- ferences where international scholars and serving officers gather to pre- sent papers, debate, and exchange ideas on airpower employment. Often, the papers are published. As with all such collections, there is some chaff along with the wheat: some of the papers tend to be poorly written, poorly researched, or poorly argued. Others are focused so nar- rowly that they have little utility and longevity. But there are other papers that are excellent, and they make these books worthwhile.  The first of these compendiums focuses on the British situation, which is a limiting factor, but it also discusses the employment of naval  498 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 33 --- ~ os on Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  aviation. Regrettably, “land” airmen and “water” airmen too often become adversarial and parochial; indeed, they generally have little to do with one another. This is unfortunate, so the inclusion of this topic here is of importance: Philip Sabin, ed., The Future of United Kingdom Air Power (London: Brassey’s, 1988). Other volumes in this series—if we may call it that—include Group Captain Andrew Vallance, ed., Air Power: Collected Essays on Doctrine (London: HMSO, 1990); three excellent compendiums edited by Alan Step