er in World War II, is typified by Alexander de Seversky, America—Too Young to Die! (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1961), which is even more bombastic than his earlier works; General Nathan F. Twining (former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff), Neither Liberty nor Safety (New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1966); and General Curtis E. LeMay with Dale O. Smith, America is in Danger (New York: Funk and Wagnalls, 1968).  Vietnam and NATO  Despite the cries of the alarmists, U.S. air doctrine was little differ- ent from what it had been for decades: the emphasis remained on strate-  490 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 25 --- — ~ = ~ Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  gic bombing. As a consequence, American airmen were unprepared for the type of unconventional war they had to fight in Vietnam. They had the wrong doctrine, the wrong aircraft, the wrong ordnance, the wrong training regimen, and the wrong command and control system. One would have thought, therefore, that there would have been a scramble to understand this new kind of war. Such was not the case, as is demon- strated by Dennis Drew in “Air Theory, Air Force, and Low Intensity Conflict: A Short Journey to Confusion,” in Paths of Heaven. Drew traces the story of the USAF’s response to “low intensity conflict” in gen- eral and Vietnam in particular. He concludes that there was amazingly little thought given to the subject. Airmen quietly and unceremoniously seemed willing to jettison their traditional theories of air warfare, but they had little or nothing to offer in their place. This problem is con- firmed and elaborated upon by Carl H. Builder, The Icarus Syndrome: The Role of Air Power Theory in the Evolution and Fate of the U.S. Air Force (New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction, 1994).  The failures of airpower doctrine in Vietnam are bluntly described in Donald J