he later hypothesized that this continuously operating cycle was at play not only in an aerial dogfight, but at the higher levels of war as well. In tracing the history of war, Boyd saw victory consistently going to the side that could think the most creatively—orienting itseli—and then act quickly on that insight. Although military historians tend to blanch at such a selective use of history, the thesis is an interesting one. Significantly, because of the emphasis on the orientation phase of the loop, in practical terms Boyd was calling for a strategy directed against the mind of the enemy  MILITARY HISTORY x 495  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 30 --- PITILLIP S. MEILINGER~--~-— es a =  leadership. Although posited by an airman, these theories encompassed far more than a blueprint for air operations. Warfare in general was gov- erned by this process. Nonetheless, because of the OODA Loop’s empha- sis on speed and the disorienting surprise it inflicts on the enemy, Boyd’s theories seem especially applicable to airpower, which embodies these two qualities most fully.  Boyd never published his theories. Instead, he would present a lengthy briefing, several hours long, consisting of hundreds of slides. This briefing, which changed slightly over the years, was titled “A Dis- course on Winning and Losing,” and xerox copies of it can be found in most Staff College and War College libraries. It is Senerally accompanied by an eight-page typescript titled “Destruction and Creation.” The exam- ples Boyd pulled from military history to support his theories are highly selective and thus his entire edifice must be viewed with great caution. Although he is cited frequently as a guru of maneuver warfare, there has been surprisingly little critical analysis of his theories. The best critique thus far is Lieutenant Colonel David K. Fadok, “John Boyd and John Warde