armament—the idea had become a fantasy.  Some of the better books that share the theme of the horror and inevitability of strategic bombing include: G. Blanchon, The New War- fare (New York: Thomas Crowell, 1918); “Neon,” The Great Delusion: A Study of Aircraft in Peace and War (London: E. Benn, 1927); Charles Dennistoun Burney, The World, the Air and the Future (London: Knopf, 1929); Stuart Chase, Men and Machines, trans. Fred Rothwell (New York: Macmillan, 1935); Frank Morison, War on Great Cities: A Study of the Facts (London: Faber and Faber, 1937); George Fielding Eliot, Bombs Bursting in Air: The Influence of Air Power on International Relations (New York: Reynal and Hitchcock, 1939), and Oliver Lyman Spaulding, Ahriman: A Study in Air Bombardment (Boston: World Peace Foundation, 1939).  Giulio Douhet  The first person to think deeply about the role of airpower in war, and then to put his ideas in print, was the Italian artillery officer, Giulio Douhet. Inclined towards the mechanical, he began writing about flight as early as 1910. Outspoken and arrogant, Douhet was often in conflict with his superiors. As a consequence, when war broke out in 1914 he had been assigned to an unimportant post in the infantry. He nonethe- less continued to agitate and write, resulting in his court-martial for insubordination in 1916. After a year in prison, he was allowed to return to duty, but little had changed. Douhet soon retired and spent the last decade of his life writing books, articles, editorials, letters, and even nov- els dealing with airpower.  In 1921 Douhet published his most famous work, Command of the Air. (This book was first translated into English by Dino Ferrari and pub- lished by Coward-McCann in 1942. It consisted of the 1927 revised ver-  MILITARY HISTORY x A471  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 6 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER ————  sion of hi