the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 32 --- PHILLIP S$. MEILINGER——  opinion that, for example, Saddam Hussein surrendered because his army in Kuwait was being destroyed. By the same token, however, it is equally impossible to argue that surrender occurred because of air attacks on Iraq’s industry, power network, transportation, or communi- cations networks—arguments made by John Warden and others.  Although this issue poses questions that may be unanswerable, it has in no way lessened the vigor of the debate. A series of articles written by Pape, Warden, Barry Watts, and Karl D. Mueller appeared in the 1997 and 1998 issues of Security Studies. These make fascinating and stimu- lating reading. Although the bottom line on this debate seems to cast doubt on any monocasual factor in victory—war is simply too complex to get that reductive—the spirit and depth of the intellectual discourse over the past several years has been extremely valuable. Frankly, air- power has become an increasingly important policy tool in the past decade, as evidenced in Iraq, Bosnia, and Kosovo. A dialogue that seri- ously discusses the most effective method of employing that airpower is thus a positive event for national defense.  Daniel L. Byman, Matthew C. Waxman, and Eric Larson have writ- ten an excellent overview that is broader and less doctrinaire than Pape or Warden: Air Power as a Coercive Instrument (Santa Monica, Calif.: RAND Corporation, 1999). This work notes several factors that help lead to successful coercion using airpower: if the coercer can achieve “esca- lation dominance,” if the adversary’s strategy can be negated, and if third parties can be brought to bear to lever or frighten the coerced party. This social science lexicon may be off-putting to some, but once past that, the ideas contained here are first-rate. The authors argue that the geopoliti- cal environment of the new century wil