ct, was General William W. Momyer, Air Power in Three Wars (Washington: GPO, 1978). Momyer was one of the brightest officers of his generation. A fighter pilot in World War II, he was also the comman- der of the Seventh Air Force in Saigon during the Vietnam War. His  MILITARY HISTORY x 491  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 26 --- PHILLIP S. MEILINGER = aoe == =<  discussion of the mechanics of tactical airpower—command and control, target selection, force packaging, aerial tactics, and the like—is out- standing. From this perspective, it is perhaps the best book of its kind.  The U.S. Army similarly changed its focus, turning back towards the traditional Soviet enemy on the German central front. This required them to wash their hands of the Vietnam debacle and put it behind them. They were more than willing to do so, and the Air Force was happy to join them. As a result of this tacit agreement to forget the past, a close relationship began to develop between the two services. The Army devised its new doctrine of AirLand Battle, and the Air Force—although refusing to endorse it officially---was favorably disposed towards it. The evolution of this relationship is explored in Harold R. Winton, “An Ambivalent Partnership: U.S. Army and Air Force Perspectives on Air- Ground Operations, 1973-1990,” in Paths of Heaven. A more detailed description of this cooperation can be found in Donald J. Mrozek, The US Air Force After Vietnam: Postwar Challenges and Potential for Responses (Maxwell AFB, Ala.: Air University Press, 1988).  The implications of the Army’s new doctrine were obviously felt heavily in NATO. This in turn meant that the alliance’s air doctrine had to adjust to complement the new ground scheme. This evolution is cov- ered in Colonel Maris E. McCrabb, “The Evolution of NATO Air Doc- trine,” in Paths of Heaven, and David J. Stein, The Developmen