d to adjust to complement the new ground scheme. This evolution is cov- ered in Colonel Maris E. McCrabb, “The Evolution of NATO Air Doc- trine,” in Paths of Heaven, and David J. Stein, The Development of NATO Tactical Air Doctrine, 1970-1985 (Santa Monica, Calif.: RAND, 1987). In addition, Neville Brown wrote The Future of Air Power (New York: Holmes and Meier, 1986), in the waning years of the Cold War— although he of course was not aware of that. His book is an excellent mix of history, analysis, current events, and prediction that uses the NATO- Warsaw Pact confrontation as a backdrop. This is to some extent unfor- tunate because as the memory of the Cold War fades, the sheer size, mass, and geographic setting of the European central front distract the reader and distort the book’s analysis. Regarding the other side of the hill, surprisingly little has been written regarding Soviet air doctrine. For overviews, see AF Pamphlet 200-21, Soviet Aerospace Handbook (Wash- ington: GPO, 1978); and Lieutenant Colonel Edward J. Felker, “Soviet Military Doctrine and Air Theory: Change Through the Light of a Storm,” in Paths of Heaven.  An important book written during the Vietnam era that has pro- duced echoes ever since is Thomas C. Schelling, Arms and Influence (New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1966). Schelling was an econ- omist whose earlier works had dealt with nuclear strategy and arms con- trol. In this book, however, he laid out the theory that was to be called “gradual escalation.” Schelling argued that a steadily increasing use of force—the metaphor of a ratchet is usually cited—can induce an adver- sary to modify his behavior. If the force is effective, the enemy will cease  492 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 27 --- = : “= Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  whatever conduct had been thought objectionable.