permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 14 --- PITILLIP S. MEILINGER = SSS os ——————  unpreparedness for World War II by focusing on what he sees as the defi- ciencies in American tank and air doctrine and equipment. He concludes that the culprit was intraservice parochialism and special interests. Although his treatment of Air Corps doctrine regarding strategic bom- bardment before the war is accurate if not original, Johnson misses the mark on tactical airpower. Undoubtedly tactical aviation had teething troubles in its first baptism of fire in North Africa, but the campaign was still a success; moreover, airmen learned very quickly. By D-day, U.S.tac- tical air assets were far superior to Germany’s, in both quantity and qual- ity. In short, Johnson provides an explanation for a nonexistent problem.  Although Joseph J. Corn’s Winged Gospel: America’s Romance with Aviation, 1900-1950 (New York: Oxford University Press, 1983) is not about military aviation, much less airpower theory, his masterful work is included here because of its tangential importance to our subject. Corn has written the best account so far of how aviation captured the popular imagination during the first half of this century. Americans have always tended to glamorize technology and see it as a panacea for any problem, and the airplane was the supreme example of that technology. This com- bined with an almost mystical feeling that when one took off into the pristine sky, the sordidness, imperfections, and banality of the earth were left behind. Flight brought transformation and renewal. This is an important concept to understand about that more innocent age, because military airmen believed the same sort of transformation was occurring in war as a result of the airplane. Although it sounds paradoxical, there was a belief that the airplane, because of its ability to dominate whole countries and their p