imensional] thinking on what was now a three-dimensional world. He was especially critical of his rival, Hugh Trenchard. He repeated the message of this book in Behind the Smoke Screen (London: Faber and Faber, 1933).  Another airman whose writings on his profession were well above average was E. J. Kingston-McCloughry. A thoughtful and serious officer who later rose to flag rank in the Second World War, his Winged Warfare (London: Jonathan Cape, 1937) gives a balanced and measured account of airpower’s potential. Mirroring RAF doctrine, he stated that indis- criminate bombing of population centers was morally and militarily wrong. Nonetheless, he did believe that bombing the enemy’s industry was the quickest route to victory.  James M. Spaight was an important and influential writer, not only because of his sharp intellect and insight regarding air matters, but also because he was an expert in international law. As a result, he was often called upon by the British government for counsel on issues such as the legality of bombing certain targets. In his first book on the subject, Air- craft in War (London: Geoffrey Bles, 1914), he dismissed those who con- demned the use of aircraft in war as somehow illegal: “To question the legitimacy of the use of aircraft in war is simply to plough the sand.” Spaight argued that because no international laws were then extant to regulate aerial warfare, it was necessary to fall back on those laws that governed war on land and sea. His arguments, which remained the stan- dard interpretation for six decades thereafter, included, for example, the premise that just as artillery could indiscriminately shell a defended city  484 x THE JOURNAL OF  Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- meilinger_historiography.pdf --- Page 19 --- io Historiography of Airpower Theory and Doctrine  to hasten its surrender, so too could airplanes bomb that city for the same purpose. O