learned in Egypthad to be relearned by Allied forces as they pushed the Axis back into T unisia, while the USAAF , arriving in Algeria and Morocco for Operation Torch, launched on November 8, 1942, began from the basis that the Army ground commanders had priority over air forces tied closely to particular Army divisions. The introduction of a more ﬂexible air doctrine and the principle of command equivalence followed the appointment of Tedder to head the combined Mediterranean Air Command and of RAF Air Vice Marshal Arthur Coningham to command the North-West African Air Forces, but the U.S. Army still had the right under Field Manual 31–35 to order air units to support Army units on the battleﬁeld. In July 1943, Field Manual 100–20 ﬁnally conceded that “land power and air power are co-equal,” a concession that freed the American tactical air forces to ﬁght an operational air war like the RAF . 43 From mid-1943 until the end of the war, the tactical air forces of all three major Allies grew enormously in size and competence. They imposed on the German air force, ﬁghting on its own after the surrender of Italy on September 8, 1943, a level of attrition that could not be reversed despite the large increase in German aircraft production in 1944. The disparity between the two sides is best illustrated by the ﬁgures available for the Normandy landings on June 6, 1944. The Allies had on hand 12,837 aircraft including a complement of 5,400 ﬁghters. German Air Fleet Three in northern France had only 300 aircraft, and on June 6, only 170 were serviceable. Over the days that followed, 1,000 more German aircraft were ﬂown into the region, but they were easily destroyed. In addition, both the RAF and the USAAF in France could draw on a new generation of high-performance ﬁghter-bombers (the aircraft the RAF crucially lacked for much of the early period of the war). The American P–38 Lightning and P–47 Thunderbolt and the British Hawker Typhoon were all capable of carrying rockets