inhibited substantially what the German economy, if entirely free of bombing, might have been capable of producing. 70 Second, the bombing offensives distorted German air strategy entirely and under- mined the capacity of the army to ﬁght effectively at the major European fronts. The diversion of ﬁghter defense aircraft to Germany reduced the aircraft available to support ground forces. In January 1944, for example, 68 percent of German ﬁghters were defending the homeland and only 17 percent were in the East. The emphasis on defense also degraded aircraft output: in 1942, over 50 percent of combat aircraft EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 24 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 50 produced were bombers, which played a central role in operational air warfare; by 1944, only 18 percent of combat aircraft were bombers, denying the German army the means to disrupt enemy supply lines and troop concentrations effectively. For much of the last two years of the war, the German army was forced to ﬁght with a shrinking number of aircraft and a consequent rise in attrition rates. Without the impact on production and the distorting effects on German strategy, German frontline troops might have had as much as 50 percent more weaponry and supplies, and it would have taken a larger and more costly ground campaign to dislodge them. The answer to whether morale was undermined by bombing is in some respects self-evident. The bombed populations in Italy and Germany were deeply demoralized and profoundly affected by intense bombardment. But the expected political dividend, which was the implied goal of the Combined Offensive assault on morale, did not merely fail to materialize, but in fact accrued to the German leadership: heavy bombing provoked an apathy and resignation that permitted the regime to continue to impose high demands on the population without provoking