m/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 4 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 30 Allies failed completely to coordinate their two air forces or to concentrate their main air strength at the battlefront. As a result, they lost command of the air and the land campaign simultaneously. 8 THE BATTLE OF BRITAIN AND THE BLITZ The most signiﬁcant air battle of the European war followed the defeat of France in June 1940. The Battle of Britain was regarded on the British side as a campaign to prevent a German invasion. As such, it involved not just Fighter Command but also extensive military preparations for the home-based army and the use of bomber aircraft to attack German-controlled ports and the shipping intended for OperationSealion, the proposed German invasion of Britain authorized by Adolf Hitler on July 16, 1940. Both sides, however, recognized that air superiority would be essential for the complex combined operation planned by the German high command. TheGerman air force commander in chief, Reich Marshal Hermann Göring, undertook to neutralize the RAF to the point where it could no longer intervene in the battle, at which stage German bombers would attempt to degrade the British military and economic structures in southern Britain to permit an invasion of the southern counties of Sussex and Kent. 9 Although the aerial Battle of Britain is usually dated from mid-July, the preliminary bombing began in June 1940, and there was almost continuous, if limited, air combat until the onset of the major air force assault against the RAF , which was scheduled to begin on “Eagle Day,” August 13, 1940. The Battle of Britain illuminated the difference in the strategic proﬁles of the two opposed air forces. The German air force, organized in Air Fleets T wo and Three in northern France and Belgium, had not been prepared for an independent air assault carried out over enemy territory against strong active and passive defenses. Although the bomber force was capable of reaching a