42 with the appointment of Air Chief Marshal Arthur Harris as commander in chief, a role he held until the end of the war. Harris, a career airman with much experience of air policing in areas of the British Empire and the Middle East, adopted a maximum view of bombing strategy. He was armed with a new directive, issued on February 14, 1942, shortly before he assumed command, that instructed the force to adopt as its primary mission an attack on the morale of the German home population in general, and industrial workers in particular. 61He was also supplied by the Ministry of Economic Warfare with a list of one hundred German cities, each with a points rating according to its size and industrial importance, which he could choose to attack as and when opportunity arose. Over the next three years, and despite the regular temporary loss of a portion of his force to other purposes, Harris remorselessly set out to do what his instructions told him. 62To demonstrate the change in strategy and command, he organized a raid on the city of Cologne on May 30, 1942, with “a thousand bombers,” although only 868 reached and bombed the target. Harris’s appointment coincided with the arrival of the U.S. Eighth Air Force, which began training programs and base construction in the spring of 1942. Theﬁrst operations were mounted in August against French targets, but the force still had only 119 operational bombers. The U.S. commanders preferred to ﬂy by day  and to rely on the large ﬁrepower of the Boeing B–17 bomber. They remained critical of British night bombing and planned their own operations on the basis of hitting speciﬁc, visible economic targets in as systematic a way as possible. This distinction between day and night operations prevented serious friction between the two Allies except at those times when the U.S. air forces (the Fifteenth Air Force joined in the attacks from 1943 on from Mediterranean bases) wanted to mount a coordinated effort against a particular target su