3, and LaGG–3, were appearing in small numbers, as was the Il–2 “shturmovik” ﬁghter-bomber. Soviet air forces were organized not in air ﬂeets but in units assigned to particular frontline army groups, with little ﬂexibility in their deployment. There was no central control of air units that might move aircraft quickly to threatened sectors of the front. The thinking of the Red Army was offensive, and too little attention had been paid to questions of air defense. When the forces of Germany and its cobelligerents attacked on June 22, 1941, Soviet air power temporarily crumbled, with more than seven thousand aircraft destroyed by early October 1941 and forward air bases and much of the air communications system lost. 31By the end of December 1941, Ger- man sources calculated that Soviet losses totaled 20,392 aircraft (the true ﬁgure was even higher) against German losses of 2,505. Soviet air activity was concentrated on direct battleﬁeld support consistent with the prevailing doctrinal emphasis on the destruction of enemy forces through offensive action, but poor tactical awareness and lack of combat experience contributed to very high loss rates: of 21,200 aircraft lost in 1941, 7,600 were noncombat losses. 32 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 12 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 38 From that point on, the air battle on the Eastern front assumed a new character. The high losses inﬂicted on the Soviet air force in 1941 were not repeated, while the scale of the Eastern campaign produced a rising attrition of the German force, which was always smaller than its Soviet opponent. The failure to enlarge the force and the exceptionally wide front in Russia meant that the German air force was spread very thin. The operational air war launched in the summer of 1941 gave way to a situation in which the air force became “the ﬂying artillery of the army,” co