1 planes, 805 of them serviceable, on August 10, 1940. The RAF had 1,032 ﬁghter aircraft on August 9, with 768 serviceable. In addition, there were 424 in store ready for operations the next day. Throughout the three months of the air battle, from August to October 1940, the number of trained pilots on hand for RAF Fighter Command exceeded the number of single-seat ﬁghter pilots available on the German side. 10British numbers remained roughly constant over the period of the battle (despite a marginally higher loss rate than the Germans), but by early September, with the battle at its height, German numbers fell to around 500 ﬁghters and on October 1 fell for one day to only 275. The key to this difference lay in aircraft production. British industry was geared to produce ﬁghters as a top priority. German industry produced a wide range of tactical aircraft and more medium bombers than ﬁghters. In August and September 1940, the German aircraft industry produced 775 ﬁghters, the British industry 1,900. 11 The outcome was nevertheless not entirely preordained. German ﬁghters were of high quality and the pilots well trained and experienced. They were also able to choose the point of engagement, while the defending air force had to anticipate enemy operations and engage in the space of the enemy’s choosing. As a result, RAFFighter Command suffered a marginally faster rate of loss than the German ﬁghter arm, even though it had more substantial reserves and replacements. German advan-tages were nevertheless outweighed by some substantial disadvantages. German pilots were lost to the force once they were forced to bail out over enemy territory or crashed in the sea; German ﬁghter aircraft had to protect the bombers and were less free to engage in direct ﬁghter-to-ﬁghter combat; and German air intelligence persistently overestimated the British loss rate and level of damage to the air force infrastructure. At the end of August, German air intelligence estimated that eight Fig