f long-range ﬁghter aircraft converted for the purpose of contesting German air superiority in German airspace. The search for a means of bringing direct pressure on the German defense force began in the autumn of 1943, but the solution proved deceptively easy. The standard U.S. ﬁghter aircraft, the P–38 Lightning and P–47 Thunderbolt, were ﬁtted with extra fuel tanks when they were ferried to the Air Force. It was found that they could also ﬁght very effectively with the extra load of fuel and could ﬂy two thousand miles instead of ﬁve hundred. The most successful adaptation was the P–51 Mustang, produced for the RAF in American factories with a Rolls-Royce Merlin engine. Extra fuel tanks extended its range to eighteen hundred miles, fully armed and with little loss of performance. A crash production program began, and the ﬁrst aircraft ﬂew on a raid to Kiel in December 1943. In March 1944, Mustangs accompanied bombers all the way to Berlin and back. The high performance and large numbers of American ﬁghter aircraft turned the tide of the air war over Germany. German monthly ﬁghter losses rose from 30.3 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 23 --- THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 49 percent in January 1944 to 56.4 percent in March.67This rate of attrition could not be sustained, and despite high ﬁghter output, the loss of pilots and degradation of training owing to fuel shortages reduced the ability of the German air force to contest the bombing campaign effectively. In the last year of the war, Allied air forces dropped 1.18 million tons of munitions on Germany and German-occupied Europe, or 83 percent of the tonnage dropped throughout the war. The neutralization of the German air force opened the way for the remorseless destruction of much of urban Germany and its communications, fuel supply, and infrastructure from the summer of 1944 onwar