ng-range B–24 Liberators be released for the use of the Navy, which had already begun a program of escort-carrier construction so that aircraft could accompany the convoys directly. 27 In Britain, the same problem arose in relations between the RAF and the Royal Navy. The navy enjoyed operational control over long-range aircraft (almost all of them converted heavy bombers) assigned to RAF Coastal Command for work over the Atlantic approaches. But in the spring of 1942 there were far too few of them, and Bomber Command resisted the allocation of more bombers to the naval war because of the demands of the bombing campaign against Germany. This argument, too, could be resolved only at the highest level. In August 1942, Prime Minister Winston Churchill established an Anti–U-Boat Warfare Committee that, with his backing, insisted that more long-range aircraft be converted to an antisubmarine role. TheB–24 Liberators that were capable of covering the Atlantic Gap were made available only in March 1943, and by the summer there were 37 with Coastal Command and 209 serving with the U.S. Navy. 28 The conduct of operations also caused friction between the Allies, since the U.S. Navy commander in chief, Admiral Ernest King, wanted to retain control of his part of the Atlantic war and opposed any suggestion of a uniﬁed command of the antisubmarine war. The ﬁrst Liberators operating with Coastal Command were loaned by the USAAF , whose role King also distrusted. 29 In the end, the friction did not seriously jeopardize the Atlantic campaign, which ﬁnally turned in the Allies’ favor in March 1943 thanks to a range of important tactical and operational innovations—the introduction of ﬂexible naval “support groups” to attack the submarines around the convoys, the use of new centimetric radar (and in particular the new generation of EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf -