rialize, but in fact accrued to the German leadership: heavy bombing provoked an apathy and resignation that permitted the regime to continue to impose high demands on the population without provoking much overt political dissent. 71The “nation” in that sense was not a target that could be defeated until the armed forces of the enemy had been compelled to surrender. CONCLUSION The air war that materialized between 1939 and 1945 was not the war that had been popularly expected. No “knockout blow” from the air against the civilian home front materialized in the early weeks of the war, and even after four years of heavy bombing, German society continued to ﬁght until the armed forces had to accept defeat. Yet the role of air power in the war was undoubtedly of great importance. In any balanced explanation, air power made the difference in a great many different campaigns. Once the historical emphasis is shifted from the major bombing campaigns, it is evident that the development of operational air warfare for land or sea campaigns was the most signiﬁcant contribution aircraft could make to the conduct of war. The neglect in many general accounts of the air war of the development of tactical air power by the British Commonwealth air forces and the U.S. Army and Navyhas obscured the extent to which the campaigns in North Africa, Italy, France, and Eastern Europe relied on extensive and effectively deployed battlefront air forces. The winning of air superiority, from the Battle of France in May–June 1940 to the conquest of Germany in January–May 1945, gave a degree of strategic ﬂexibility in the conduct of operations denied to the loser. It was here that the numerically largest EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 25 --- THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 51 effort was made, even by Britain and the United States. What distinguished the air strategy o