tion and not as an integral element in the exercise of what German airmen called “operational air war.” 1 German theorists shared with their French counterparts the lesson of the Great War that air power had to be used ﬁrst to achieve success at the ﬁghting front, a view consistent with their geopolitical position. 2They also regarded the use of aircraft alongside the Copyright 2010. University of Nebraska Press. All rights reserved. May not be reproduced in any form without permission from the publisher, except fair uses permitted under U.S. or applicable copyright law.EBSCO Publishing : eBook Comprehensive Academic Collection (EBSCOhost) - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN AN: 388919 ; Olsen, John Andreas.; A History of Air Warfare Account: s2953473.main.ehost  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 2 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 28 main ground offensive as a strategic use of air power and did not subscribe to the view that such operations were merely tactical.3The Soviet case was similar, since any potential threat from the capitalist West was, it was thought, likely to come across the long Soviet frontier. It was therefore necessary to use all military force, aircraft included, in support of armies deployed at or near the frontier for launching offensive operations. The Soviet decision was also a product of geopolitical reality because current Soviet aircraft could reach none of the major cities of any potential enemy. The exception to this rule was the Royal Air Force (RAF). In the closing months of the First World War, when the RAF was formed, British air leaders subscribed to the view that an independent bombing campaign directed at the vital centers of the enemy’s war production and economic infrastructure—particularly if the bombing created widespread popular demoralization—might prompt a political upheaval and force Germany to sue for peace. The idea that morale was a vulnerable target has generally been ascribed to General (later Air