d with the idea of an independent air campaign. He had remarked to his headquarters staff late in 1939 that “the ruthless employment of the Luftwaffe against the heart of the British will-to-resist can and will follow at the given moment.” 16Yet when the German air force chief of staff, Hans Jeschonnek, asked for permission to bomb residential areas to create panic in September 1940, Hitler refused. In January 1941, he insisted that bombing had to have a purpose—in this case, the war against trade and industry—and told his staff that terror raids “have small value and accomplish little.” 17 German bombing was not intended to be simply indiscriminate, although the extant technology, even with radio-beam navigation, was incapable of avoiding extensive civilian damage. At least part of the motive for maintaining the attacks was to sustain the im- pression that Britain was Germany’s main strategic concern, thus masking the shift in German military preparations to the Barbarossa campaign. On the other hand, continued German losses during the Blitz, many of them the result of accidents or poor weather conditions, eroded the force that would be needed for the campaigns in Russia. Over the course of the Blitz, 384 bombers were destroyed, 63.5 percent of them noncombat casualties. 18The German air force ﬁelded two hundred fewer bombers at the start of the Barbarossa campaign on June 22, 1941, than had been available on May 10, 1940. 19 EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 8 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 34 The German experience from October 1940 to May 1941 provided important lessons on the conduct of an independent bombing campaign (though the RAF learned few of them before beginning its own operations). The high losses from daylight raids forced the German air force to shift to night bombing, as the RAF had already done earlier in 1940. Losses from a