and German air intelligence persistently overestimated the British loss rate and level of damage to the air force infrastructure. At the end of August, German air intelligence estimated that eight Fighter Com-mand airﬁelds had been rendered unusable (in fact, three were rendered brieﬂy unusable and then reopened) and that Fighter Command was down to around 200 aircraft with no reserves (the true ﬁgure was 700 operational and 250 in store for immediate use). 12 The miscalculation of the amount of damage inﬂicted convinced the German air commanders to shift strategies. In early September, Göring ordered a switch from EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 6 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 32 attacks on the enemy air force—airﬁelds and radar stations—to attacks on cities and communications. Heavy attacks were made on Bristol, Liverpool, Birmingham, and other industrial and port towns. On September 2, he ordered attacks on London to reduce military capability prior to launching Operation Sealion on September 15. On September 5, Hitler conﬁrmed that the German air force should now attack London and other urban centers to degrade Britain’s capacity to resist invasion. This ﬁnal decision has sometimes been presented as an improvised reaction to two British attacks on Berlin in the last week of August 1940, but this viewpoint is not convincing. The German air force had planned in advance of the August battle to knock out Fighter Command ﬁrst and then begin a bombing campaign to prepare the way for the seaborne invasion. The shift to bombing was authorized in early September according to this original plan and had begun even before Hitler’s formal directive on September 5. From September 7 on, continued and heavy daylight attacks were mounted against the British capital. They proved a disaster for the German air force because Fighter Command had not been e