ﬁghters was developed across northern Germany. By 1943, 70 percent of German ﬁghter and night ﬁghter strength was concentrated in Germany and Western Europe. New detection instruments were devised against RAF nightﬂying bombers—ﬁrst, the ultra-high-frequency radar called Lichtenstein and then, when that was jammed, by British scientiﬁc counterintelligence, a very-high-frequency version known as SN2. The German ﬁghter force did what the RAF had done in the Battle of Britain, exacting an escalating toll against the large unescorted U.S. bomber streams that stretched across northern and central Germany, though generally without preventing the bombers from dropping their payload, however inaccurately. Both Allied bomber forces were compelled to adjust their tactics to take account of German defense and the difﬁculty of ﬁnding and hitting even close to the designated target in the face of unpredictable weather, heavy antiaircraft ﬁre, and German deception operations. The tactical performance of the bomber force was enhanced by improved aluminized explosive, new navigational aids—the radio navigation system Gee, in-troduced in 1942, and the air-to-ground radar, known as H2S—and the introduc-tion of special groups (Pathﬁnders in the RAF) to precede the bombers and to illuminate or indicate the target area clearly. The capability of the force was crudely demonstrated in Operation Gomorrah when the German port of Hamburg was subjected to four British and two American raids between July 24 and August 2, 1943. The raid of July 27–28 caused a ﬁrestorm that killed an estimated forty thousand people and destroyed twenty-two square kilometers of the city. Even this EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 22 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 48 raid could not prevent the city from returning to 80 percent of its wartime output within a few months.65 Once Hitler had r