except at those times when the U.S. air forces (the Fifteenth Air Force joined in the attacks from 1943 on from Mediterranean bases) wanted to mount a coordinated effort against a particular target such as the German aviation industry or the oil sector. The different modes of operation were conﬁrmed after the Allied leaders met at Casablanca in January 1943. The Combined Bomber Offensive ordered USAAF EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 21 --- THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 47 operations by day, RAF operations by night, to be directed against ﬁve major target systems (submarine industry, aircraft industry, transport, oil production and reﬁning, secondary manufacturing sectors) and to apply “continuous pressure on German morale.” 63The edict was conﬁrmed in the “Pointblank Directive” in June 1943, which laid the basis for the bombing campaigns for the rest of the war. The major difference in strategic outlook between the two forces lay in the American realization, evident from the lessons of the Blitz, that the German air force was an intermediate target that would have to be neutralized or defeated in order to maximize what the bombing campaign could achieve. The German air defense force was one of the major factors inhibiting the full development of the bombing campaign. The early RAF bombing attacks were expected to be dealt with by antiaircraft ﬁre and a well-prepared emergency air raid precautions system. 64 As the attacks grew in intensity during 1941, a sophisticated system of air interception (generally known as the Kammhuber Line after the com-mander in chief of air defense, Lieutenant General Josef Kammhuber) based on radar and night ﬁghters was developed across northern Germany. By 1943, 70 percent of German ﬁghter and night ﬁghter strength was concentrated in Germany and Western Europe. New detection instruments were devised aga