rance and Belgium, had not been prepared for an independent air assault carried out over enemy territory against strong active and passive defenses. Although the bomber force was capable of reaching a large part of the United Kingdom, it focused its attention on the port cities in the early stages of the campaign. The stan-dard prewar bombers were slow and carried a light bomb load for urban targets. Theﬁghter force had very limited range, extending to the southern counties of Englandand with an endurance time in combat of around thirty minutes. Some nine-tenths of Britain was beyond German single-seat ﬁghter range. On the British side, the battle was the kind of campaign for which extensive preparations had been made. The substantial ﬁghter force was composed of HawkerHurricane and Supermarine Spitﬁre ﬁghters, both on the cutting edge of aviation technology; there was a well-organized observer and communications system in place in southern England; and above all, the development of radar meant that there would be limited, but in many cases sufﬁcient, warning of approaching enemy aircraft. EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 5 --- THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 31 There was also a contrast in production priorities and training. Overconﬁdence on the German side about the quality of aircraft and pilots was compounded with poor intelligence on British capabilities (supported by an unﬂattering assessment of RAF performance in the Battle of France). The German air force high command expected to eliminate the RAF as a threat in four days and believed that the pilots and planes on hand would be sufﬁcient for the task. The German ﬁghter force had 1,011 planes, 805 of them serviceable, on August 10, 1940. The RAF had 1,032 ﬁghter aircraft on August 9, with 768 serviceable. In addition, there were 424 in store ready for operations the next day. Thro