were made to expand German output, many factors, including the later impact of bombing, inhibited higher levels of output. In both cases, the attrition cycle caused by an imbalance of numbers could not be reversed, creating accelerating loss rates in the last years of the war, however high the quality of German aircraft. Second, there were differences in the way the air forces were integrated into the overall command structure. In Germany, they were closely controlled by Hitler’s supreme headquarters, where there was no equivalent of a general staff committee to which air commanders could make reasoned arguments and expect clear decisions. In the Soviet Union, Britain, and the United States, the air force commanders were closely integrated into the overall military committee system and could argue as equals against the interests of other services. In the West, this also involved the combined chiefs of staff, where top-level decisions were taken together with army, navy, and air force representatives. Third, there was a contrast in political receptivity. Churchill and Roosevelt were air power enthusiasts and accepted a high level of commitment to its exploitation EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 26 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 52 and supply. Hitler was much more attracted to an army view of warfare and became progressively disillusioned with air power. By 1944, he threatened to disband the air force, replace it with antiaircraft defenses, and trust instead in new weapons of vengeance (the V1 ﬂying bomb, the V2 rocket). Although there were many arguments on the Allied side over strategic options for the use of air power, or the command of particular air forces, there was a general acceptance at the highest level that war conducted on such a geographical scale and waged with such intensity required a consistent commitment to air power in all