the enemy. The new doctrine, like the reform instituted in the Soviet air force in 1942, relied on imitating German practice. Fighter squadrons were to be used to eliminate enemy air power and attack enemy air bases; bomber aircraft were used at night to attack enemy supplies and air bases, and by day or night against targets of opportunity such as supply depots, ports, and communications. Everything was coordinated by a centralized command and relied on establishing high levels of mobility, force maintenance, and intelligence. The emphasis was on a mixture of con-centration and ﬂexibility of effort. Air command was organized alongside the army, each headquarters having an air and army component, but the army generals could not compel ground support if other operations promised a more effective outcome. At ground level, special liaison units helped to feed vital information to the central air controller and air support units based on trucks armed with radio, and radar traveled with the moving front to provide up-to-the-minute information. 42 This form of operational warfare could not guarantee that ground campaigns would succeed even with air superiority, as the disastrous retreat into Egypt in June EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 16 --- AH ISTORY OF  AIR WARFARE 42 1942 demonstrated. But at the Second Battle of Alamein, the system proved its worth when 350 Axis aircraft, many short of fuel, were overwhelmed by more than 1,500 Allied aircraft stationed in the Middle East and Mediterranean, who fought a continuous and interdependent campaign against all elements of Axis supply, deployment, and battleﬁeld forces. Even then, many of the lessons learned in Egypthad to be relearned by Allied forces as they pushed the Axis back into T unisia, while the USAAF , arriving in Algeria and Morocco for Operation Torch, launched on November 8, 1942, be