//www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 25 --- THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 51 effort was made, even by Britain and the United States. What distinguished the air strategy of the Western Allies from that of Germany or the Soviet Union was the recognition that air power is indivisible, with one form of air strategy supporting the others. Hence, while Germany and the Soviet Union concentrated on operational air warfare in collaboration with frontline armies, Britain and the United Statesalso developed long-range bombing, air-sea cooperation, and an effective air supply system. These different choices also reﬂected differing historical circumstances. The war Germany was forced to ﬁght from 1941 onward narrowed strategic options, as it also did for the Soviet Union. Long-range bombing was neglected and air defense had to be constructed in the face of a deteriorating strategic situation on all fronts. Britain and the United States opted for the exercise of air power in all its ramiﬁcations because neither was directly threatened with invasion after 1941 and both had powerful political motives to avoid building a large infantry army if air power could achieve as much. The eventual cost of 120,000 airmen and 21,000 bombers spread over ﬁve years of war was low in comparison to the annual losses of the other combatants. Air power reﬂected too the scientiﬁc, technical, and manufacturing cap-abilities of the two democracies, which were exploited at the expense of devoting greater resources to creating a very large infantry army. The success of Allied air power also depended on other factors, the most important of which was the contrast in numbers. German and Italian aircraft production was never equal to the scale of the strategic task. Although efforts were made to expand German output, many factors, including the later impact of bombing, inhibited higher levels of output. In both cases, the attrition cycle caused by an imbalance of numbers could no