meant that the German air force was spread very thin. The operational air war launched in the summer of 1941 gave way to a situation in which the air force became “the ﬂying artillery of the army,” conﬁned to battleﬁeld interdiction and increasingly limited in its efforts to combat Soviet ﬁghter aviation and to bomb more distant targets. 33The demands made on the transport units to supply trapped pockets of German troops at Demyansk and other areas, most famously Stalingrad, eroded the capacity of the German air force to undertake extensive transport operations. Moreover, unlike Soviet air forces, the German air force was compelled to keep a signiﬁcant part of its establishment elsewhere, in Western and Southern Europe. On the eve of Barbarossa, there were approximately 1,800 aircraft in other theaters, including 861 in Air Fleet Three opposing the RAF and 423 aircraft in the Mediter-ranean and North African theaters. 34By the autumn of 1943, some 60 percent of the ﬁghter force was defending the German homeland; a year later, it was around 80 percent. These other fronts absorbed between one-third and one-half of German air strength over the period 1941 to 1944. Only a very large increase in aircraft output could have compensated for ﬁghting air wars on three fronts, but in 1942, only 15,409 new aircraft were produced. In 1943, the number was 24,807, around two-thirds of the number produced by the Soviet Union alone, and a mere 16 percent of the total produced by the three major Allies. 35 By contrast, the Soviet Union moved from static army-based aviation in 1941 to a ﬂexible operational air war closely modeled on German practice. The principal organizer of this transition was a young air force lieutenant general, Alexander Novikov, whom Josef Stalin appointed Red Air Force commander in chief in April 1942. 36The divisional air units were scrapped and instead grouped into air armies (the equivalent of the German air ﬂeets) with mixed components of bombers, ﬁghter-bo