orce commander in chief in April 1942. 36The divisional air units were scrapped and instead grouped into air armies (the equivalent of the German air ﬂeets) with mixed components of bombers, ﬁghter-bombers, ﬁghters, and reconnaissance aircraft. Each air army was attached to an army group, whose commander was responsible for the tactical deployment of air power. Each air army had a deputy chief of staff stationed at the front line to facilitate rapid communication between the shifting frontline situation and the air army central command. Novikov insisted on reforming the system of air control with centralized control centers and more extensive use of radio. In addition, the central Soviet headquarters maintained separate strategic forces, not directly under EBSCOhost - printed on 10/12/2024 9:39 AM via COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - MAIN. All use subject to https://www.ebsco.com/terms-of-use  File: --- olsen_air.pdf --- Page 13 --- THE AIR WAR IN EUROPE , 1939–1945 39 army group command. These consisted of tactical reserve corps of ﬁghter-bombers, ﬁghters, and medium bombers for use at critical points in the battle; by the end of the war, these reserve corps constituted some 43 percent of all available tactical forces. 37There was also a long-range bomber force to be used for strategic tasks on or behind the battlefront as circumstances dictated, and ﬁnally a ﬁghter defense force, similar to the ﬁghter defense organization set up in Britain by 1940, used to defend Soviet cities from German bombers. A separate service maintenance command was also established to ensure that damaged aircraft were rapidly repaired and returned to battle—a factor of considerable importance given the difﬁculty experienced by both sides in maintaining satisfactory levels of serviceability in bad weather, far from major supply centers. The improvements in maintenance also relied on a new system of air bases, with small, often improvised ﬁelds near the front and a series of larger and better resourced