has closed with an imperialist peace to per- petuate national injustice and armaments.24 On this Trevelyan spoke for the UDC liberals as a whole, and at the end of the war this group transferred their loyalties en masse to the Labour Party: Norman Angell and Arthur Ponsonby, Charles Trevelyan and E.D. Morel, Noel Buxton, Goldsworthy Lowes Dic- kinson and Leonard Woolf.25 Their old associates H.N. Brailsford and J.A. Hobson had already preceded them. Henceforward the liberal conscience was to speak primarily, though by no means exc- lusively, through the organs of the Labour Party. 'The Labour Party,' in Leonard Woolf's words, 'inherited its foreign policy from Cobden and Bright through Gladstone Liberalism.'26 Rejection of the injustice of the Versailles diktat became one of the earliest and most fundamental principles of Labour, as it was of Liberal foreign policy. It was, declared the Executive of the Indepen- dent Labour Party, 'a capitalist, imperialist and militarist imposition. It aggravates every evil which existed before 1914. It does not give the world peace, but the ceratainty of other and more calamitous wars.'27 Labour critics picked specifically on the injustice of subjecting mil- lions of Germans to alien rule in Czechoslovakia; on the proposed annexation to France of the Saar; on the annexation to Poland of German areas of West Prussia; and on the prohibition, in defiance of the wishes of the population, of any Anschluss between Austria and Germany.28 Sympathy for the Germans was whole-hearted and generous, but there was less affection wasted on the French. 24 Charles Trevelyan, From Liberalism to Labour (London 1921), p. 43. 25 Miller, Socialism and Foreign Policy, p. 83. 26 Quoted by Miller, op. cit., p. 252. 27 Miller, op. cit., p. 93. 28 Loc. cit. Also Taylor, The Troublemakers, pp.176-7.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 74 U ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 It was difficult indeed to fit French policy towards Germany into any conventional sterotype