wers had taken so much for granted. Nor did they come to their senses when the war was over: 'Sometimes,' Cobden said sadly in 1864, the last year of his life, 'when observing the spirit which pervades so large a part of even our mercantile and manufacturing classes-a spirit of arrogant pride and self-sufficiency-I am almost inclined to resign myself with cynical complacency to some national disaster or check as the only possible cure for our national vices.'38 By the end of his life, then, Cobden had lost his innocence. He realised that not only the aristocracy and their hangers-on, but en- tire peoples could be belligerent. Observing the rising tension over Schleswig- Holstein in the autumn of 1863 he saw that what was looming was no mere Kabinettskrieg. If war came, he wrote, 'it will be because of the German people are resolved on war, in which case, like all wars of peoples, it will be a bloody struggle'.39 Like all wars of peoples! But Europe had already within living memory been torn apart by one such 'war of people', and others had been muttering in the background ever since. How did these conflicts fit in to the di- agnosis and prescriptions-disarmament, arbitration, non-interven- tion, free trade-of a 'Peace Movement' drawn very largely from the prosperous middle classes of the Anglo-Saxon countries and those West of the Rhine? To many Continental liberals, these prescriptions seemed smug, insular, and totally irrelevant to the historic movements of the cen- tury. For them the immediate objective was not peace. It was free- dom. And for freedom it might be necessary, and would certainly be justifiable, to fight. 'The map of Europe is to redraw!' exclaimed Giuseppe Mazzini in an open letter to Sir James Graham in 1845: 'Europe is tending to recompose itself in great uniform masses, resulting from a spontaneous popular impulse ... New nationalities 38 Hobson, op. cit. p. 326. 39 Hobson, op. cit. p 326.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 38 WAR, PEACE AND NATION