ing in the confusion of their times only new challenges and new opportunities for the old ideals. George Macaulay Trev- 1 Transcribed by the Right Hon. The Lord Trevelyan K.G. in his unpublished memoir on the Trevelyan family, to which I am indebted for other family details. I  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 2 THE GROWTH OF THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 1500-1792 elyan watched with puzzled sympathy, but could not bring himself to join them. Closely associated with the concept of Liberalism, in our image of George Trevelyan, would be that of War. Trevelyan was that not uncommon phenomenon, a profoundly pacific and kindly man with a passionate interest in military affairs. The floor of the family home in Northumberland was laid out with a vast war game to which the Trevelyan brothers devoted themselves whenever they had the op- portunity. The two great trilogies on which Trevelyan's reputation rests, his study of Garibaldi and his work on England under Queen Anne,2 were pre-eminently military histories in which lavish descrip- tions of military operations enjoyed pride of place. He had none of our contemporary inhibitions about writing 'drum and trumpet his- tory'. War for him was the very stuff of history, and he found no difficulty in reconciling it with his Liberalism. How have men gained and preserved their liberties, he would have asked, except by fight- ing? John Bright, the peaceful (though by no means pacifist) Quaker, was one of his heroes, but Garibaldi was another, and he saw no con- flict between the two. Nor indeed did they. Bright's journals report Garibaldi greeting him and his Quaker colleagues when he visited England with the words 'I am of your principles, for I am a soldier and I am a soldier of peace'.3 He was not the last 'freedom-fighter' to make such a claim. As a young man Trevelyan set himself against the militant impe- rialism of the Joseph Chamberlain era, and opposed the Boer War. He was, oddly enough, prominent as a 'pro-Boer' while his brother C