ed in Vienna by the howitzers of the Dollfuss government. The Labour leadership rapidly re-assessed the situation in the light of the darkening scene in Europe, and came firmly down on the side of Gladstone against Paine, on the side of the League and collective security. In 1934 they reversed the party conference's decision of the previous year by a card vote of three to one. The party accepted instead a report which insisted on the Government's obligation to settle all its disputes by peaceful means; which refused to support the Government if it were condemned by the League as an aggressor or if it became involved in war after refusing arbitration; but which 42 Stafford Cripps, The Struggle for Peace (London 1936), p. 71-2. 43 Ibid. p. 83. 44 Naylor, Labour's International Policy, p. 73. 79 proclaimed the duty 'unflinchingly to support our Government in all the risks and consequences of fulfilling its duty to take part in collec- tive action against a peace-breaker.' They recognised in fact that: there might be circumstances under which the Government of Great Britain might have to use its military and naval forces in support of the League in restraining an aggressor nation which declined to submit to the authority of the League and which flagrantly used military measures in defiance of its pledged word.45 A year later, in Spetember 1935, when the Abyssinian crisis had brought the issue down from the realm of abstract ideals to that of practical politics, the Party Conference reaffirmed its determination. A motion affirming Labour's readiness, in co-operation with other nations, 'to use all measures provided under the Covenant to restrain Italy and uphold the League's authority'46 was passed, over the op- position of both Lansbury and Cripps and after the longest debate in Labour Party history, by 2,168,000 votes to 102,000-a majority of ninety-five per cent. These decisions, as Clement Attlee was to put it, 47 based Labour's foreign policy on the collective peace