- tion on that subject lead us to false and even dangerous thinking on other aspects of the German problem. Germany is but little interested either in rearming or disarming: her one concern is to secure equality. For the next five years Allen and those who thought like him made increasingly anguished attempts to reconcile their desire to redress the wrongs done to the Germans with their horror at what was going on in the Third Reich. They maintained, with Philip Lothian and others, that 'in some degree the brutality of National Socialists is the reaction to the treatment given to Germany herself since the war' and that 'the best way of restoring reasonable rights to the Jews in Germany is not to counter hate with hate, but to undermine the source of the evil aspects of National Socialism by giving Germany her rightful place in Europe.'19 J.A. Hobson wrote to Allen in January 1937:20 I feel that nothing can be done until 'International Relations' are put on a safe footing. And among these relations I believe that our attitude to the 18 Martin Gilbert, Plough My Own Furrow: the Story of Lord Allen of Hurtwood (London 1965), p. 351. 19 Lothian letter of 1 February 1935, quoted in Martin Gilbert, Britain & Germany between the Wars (London 1964), p. 78. 20 Gilbert, op. cit. p. 380.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 92 HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY THE CHALLENGE OF FASCISM 1935-1945 German demand for Colonies blocks all progress. To say that Germany can have access to raw materials without colonies and that we cannot return her former colonies or find any substitute without the formal consent of the in- habitants of such areas, cannot be expected to satisfy any 'have not' country. Coming from the originator of the doctrine that it was primarily the clash of rival European imperialisms that caused wars, this com- ment is interesting, to put it no more strongly. But rather less out of character was Hobson's letter to the Manchester Guardian on 10 May 1938 at the time of the first C