tocratic caste or a conspiracy of business interests or a union of the two, the medieval [sic] spirit of jealous statecraft will coalesce with modern business greed to keep alive and stimulate the combative separatist spirit in international relations. But so far as the needs and interests of the peoples can find expression in foreign relations, the deep underlying identity 12 See Carsten Holbraad, The Concert of Europe: a Study in German and British International Theory 1825-1924 (London 1976), esp. pp. 144-8, 165-71. 13 F.M. Leventhal, 'H.N. Brailsford & the Search for a new International Order' in A.J.A. Morris, ed. Edwardian Radicalism (London 1974), p. 203. of human interests will constantly react in efforts to mould international institutions that are favourable to co-operation.'14 Here we have Tom Paine again. Adam Smith's 'hidden hand' only needed to be set free from the artificial constraints imposed on it by the self-interest of the ruling classes to go on with its beneficent work. To this doctrine, the philosopher T.H. Green gave perhaps the most magisterial exposition in the Lectures on the Principles of Politi- cal Obligation which he delivered at Oxford in the 1870s. There is no such thing [declared Green] as an inevitable conflict between states ... The more perfectly each one of them attains its proper object of giving free scope to the capacities of all persons living on a certain range of territory, the easier it is for others to do so; and in proportion as they all do so the danger of conflict disappears. On the other hand, the imperfect realisation of civil equality, in the full sense of the term, in certain states is in greater or less degree a source of danger to all. The presence in states either of a prerogatived class or of a body of people who ... thwarted in the free de- velopment of their capacities ... always breeds an imagination of there being some competition of interest between states. The privileged class involuntar- ily believes an