hich was to receive the measured support of no less a figure than Sir Edward Grey, a man who in other respects had little time for the radicals: Great armaments [he was to write, in a much-quoted passage] lead inevi- tably to war. The increase of armaments ... produces a consciousness of the strength of other nations and a sense of fear. Fear begets suspicion and dis- trust and evil imaginings of all sorts, till each Government feels it would be criminal and a betrayal of is country not to take every precaution, while every Government regards the precautions of every other Government as evidence of hostile intent.30 Was there any answer to this witches' brew which imperialists, finance-capitalists, militarists and armaments-manufactures were cooking up for mankind? There were still those who put their faith in increased information, increased publicity, increased transnational links between peoples: 'We have to aim at a healthier and sounder condition of the body politic,' declared the socialist Alfred Fried in 1908, 'it is the fresh air of open speech, the sunshine of civilisation and of true human fellowship that will destroy the germs that spur us on to international jealousies and internecine strife.'31 E.D. Morel, 29 Quoted in Miller, Socialism & Foreign Policy, p. 47. 30 Grey of Falloden, Twenty-Five Years (London 1926), vol. I, p. 91. 31 Quoted in Morris, Radicals against War, p. 200.  ----- WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 56 THE COMING OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR 1870-1914 57 Chi 10 F writing in 1912, identified 'secret diplomacy' as the basic cause of in- ternational tension and urged that people should be educated in the facts of international life: 'The citizen of education and intelligence ... is quite well able to arrive at sound conclusions if the facts are placed before him.'32 And Brailsford in 191433 saw the problem as being how the will of a democracy, how the small governing class, which everywhere promotes its own economic ends and imposes them on publ