lem. Both considered it to be an entirely rational activity in the absence of a common tribunal to which nations could appeal. 'Want of a common judge with authority puts all men in a state of nature', wrote Locke; 'force without right, upon a man's person, makes a state of war, both where there is, and is not, a common judge.' Since states were in a 'state of nature' with respect to one another, governments had not only the right, but the obligation to 'employ the force of the community ... abroad to prevent and redress foreign injuries and se- cure the community from inroads and invasions.'17 By the beginning of the eighteenth century political thinkers in general saw war as a necessary evil arising from a social organisation which itself was necessary to keep in check yet greater evils. During the course of that century this view became subtly modified. War might well be the consequence of social organisation, but this was to be seen as a reason for condemning society; not for justifying war. At the very beginning of L'Esprit des Lois (1750) Montesquieu made the point that war was un-natural, since, contrary to Thomas Hobbes' famous reconstruction of the pre-societal condition, man in a state of nature was too timid to make war. As an individual he was the most defenceless of all the animals. But 'as soon as man enters 17 John Locke, An Essay Concerning the Original Extent, and End, of Civil Government, Part II, Chap. 3, in Peter Laslett, ed. Locke's Two Treaties of Government (Cambridge 1960), p. 296. See also Richard H. Cox, Locke on War and Peace (Oxford 1960). I3 a state of society he loses the sense of his own weakness; equality ceases, and then commences the state of war. Each particular society begins to feel its strength, whence arises a state of war between dif- ferent nations.'18 Montesquieu himself accepted this as inevitable and drew much the same conclusions as had Thomas More: 'The law of nations is naturally founded on this principle, that differen