sociates did, with great courage and consist- ency, continue to draw a doubtfully tenable distinction between Ger- man militarism and the German people. They assumed that if only the German people knew the facts and could make their wishes felt, all differences between them and their neighbours could be peace- fully resolved. It was therefore a firm plank in their platform that Germany should not be humiliated and destroyed, but that after her defeat (and presumably after the advent of a 'democratic' government 6 Morel, op. cit. 7 Bertrand Russell, The Foreign Policy of the Entente (London 1914).  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 68 to power) she should be treated as a full member of the society of nations. It led them to press an embarrassed Government to make declarations of peace aims, whose moderation would make clear to the German people the extent to which they had been misled by their own leaders. 8 At the same time they showed a reserve towards the claims of smaller nation states which was in significant contrast to the enthusiasm some of them had displayed at the time of the First Balkan War. The support for 'Gallant Little Serbia' in the popular press at the beginning of the war, and the later attempts by the Allied governments to stir up racial strife within the Austrian Empire were in themselves enough to make the liberals reconsider some of their own presuppositions. Bernard Shaw was predictably contemptuous of the claims of the small nations: 'I hold no brief for small States as such,' he wrote,' 'and most vehemently deny that we are in any way bound to knight errantry on their behalf as against big ones ... They multiply frontiers, which are nuisances, and languages, which have made a confusion since the building of Babel.' More surprising was the venom with which the gentle Goldsworthy Lowes Dickinson, writing after the war, was to express himself on the subject. Serbia he described as a 'little primitive, barbarous, agg