t much of the rank, of the influence, and of the wealth of a country becomes interested in the promotion of wars.' Dymond was not prepared to accept the legitimacy even of defensive wars. When nations are mutually exasperated and armies are levied, and battles are fought,' he pointed out, 'does not everyone know that with whatever motive of defence one party may have begun the con- test, both in turn become aggressors ?... If a war has once begun, it is vain to think of distinctions of aggression and defence.' There was, he concluded, 'no hope of an eradication of War but by an absolute and total abandonment of it.' And this became the objective of an increasing number of dedicated, hard-working men in the United States and Western Europe during the next hundred years. The first Peace Society-the Society for the Promotion of Per- manent and Universal Peace-was founded in London in 1816 by 16 Jonathan Dymond, War, its cause, consequences etc.', in Essays on the Principles of Morality (London 1823).  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 32 WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 the Quaker William Allen. A similar society was founded simulta- neously in the United States. Their terms of reference were purely Benthamite. The American Peace Society aimed 'to increase and promote the practice already begun of submitting national differences to amicable discussion and arbitration, and ... of settling all national controversies by an appeal to reason, as becomes rational creatures ... this shall be done by a Congress of Nations whose decrees shall be enforced by public opinion that rules the world ... Then wars will cease.'17 Their activities proliferated. An international Peace Con- vention met in London in 1843 with 292 British, 26 American and 6 Continental participants; mainly discussing how to develop their missionary activities, also stressing in their resolutions the advantages of Temperance as facilitating 'reasonableness' in time of crisis.18 Five years later, in 1848, a P