nglements; to which Bentham added some pointed remarks about secret diplomacy, which were to remain an intrinsic part of the liberal creed. 'Secrecy in the operations of the Foreign Department in England ought not to be endured,' he wrote, 'being altogether useless and equally repugnant to the interests of lib- erty and peace'.2 But he went on to make more constructive proposals which have a deservedly honoured place in all histories of interna- tionalism. He recommended that a Common Court of Judicature should be set up for the decision of differences between the several nations. He doubted whether this court would need coercive powers, although 'there might perhaps be no harm in regulating as a last resort, the contingents to be furnished by the several states for en- forcing [its] decrees ... ' The effective power of the court would consist in the publicity of its proceedings, which should be fully reported throughout every member state. 'The power of information and rea- 1 Jeremy Bentham, A Plan for a Universal and Perpetual Peace (Grotius Society Publications 1927), p. 25. 2 Ibid. p. 31.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 26 WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 son over error and ignorance is much greater and much surer than that of exhortation, and all the modes of rhetoric over selfishness and malevolence.'3 Bentham therefore proposed that the most efficacious way of en- forcing the jurisdiction of the court would be 'by introducing into the instrument by which such a Court was instituted a clause guarantee- ing the liberty of the Press in each State.'4 There is nothing to indi- cate that Bentham appreciated either the fundamental nature of the problem which would be created by such invasions of the sovereign powers of governments, or the difficulties which would arise (dif- ficulties with which we in our day are sadly familiar) if some states enjoyed freedom of the press and other did not. Underlying the ideas of Bentham and all his disciples was the assumption