intained, diplomats had to bear a primary responsi- bility. So far instead of preventing war, diplomats only provoked it. Diplomacy, according to one of his contemporaries, was 'an obscure art which hides itself in the folds of deceit, which fears to let itself be seen and believes it can succeed only in the darkness of mystery.33 Alliances, according to Condorcet, 'are the only means by which the rulers of states precipitate the people into wars from which they ben- efit either by covering up their mistakes or by carrying out their plots against freedom.'34 In a new world governed by reason and morality, diplomacy would therefore be unnecessary. Just such a new world was coming into being across the Atlantic. In 1781 John Adams, the ambassador of the United States at the court of her ally Louis XVI, informed the Foreign Minister, Vergennes, that 'the dignity of North America does not consist in diplomatic ceremonials or any of the subtleties of etiquette; it consists solely in reason, justice, truth, the rights of mankind and the interests of the nations of Europe."35 The dream of the philosophers seemed to have come true: here at last was a Republic which had cast monarchy and aristocracy to the winds and proposed to found its policy upon reason and peace. The fact that there would not have been such a Republic had it not been for a prolonged war, and that that war would prob- ably not have been won without an alliance entered into by a French government guided strictly by those diplomatic principles which the philosophes so heartily condemned, does not appear at the time to have been found embarrassing by anybody. 33 Quoted in Felix Gilbert, To the Farewell Address: Ideas of Early American Foreign Policy (Princeton 1961), p. 61. 34 Ibid. p. 65. 35 Ibid. p. 67.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 20 THE GROWTH OF THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 1500-1792 Perhaps the most eloquent European exposition of the belief that the United States of America would inaugurate a new world o