r rather than to wage it, and that it would be ludic- rous to provide 'New Wars for Old'.35 Lord Cecil himself, when he expounded the Covenant to the House of Commons in July 1919, emphasised that there could be 'no attempt to rely upon force to carry out a decision of the Council or the Assembly of the League. That is almost impracticable as things stand now. What we rely upon is public opinion ... and if we are wrong about that, the whole thing is wrong.'36 Very creditably, to obtain clarification of this point was one of their main objects in organising in April 1934 the rather inapp- ropriately named 'Peace Ballot'.37 This asked among others the crucial question: 'Do you consider that, if a nation insists on attacking another, the other nations should combine to compel it to stop by (a) economic and non-military me- asures? (b) if necessary, military measures? To this eleven and a half million people replied-more than half the total of votes which would be cast in the General Election the following year. To the first part of the question, ninety per cent of the answers were in the affirmative; to the second, slightly over half declared their support for military measures. Only twenty per 35 See e.g. H.M. Swanwick, New Wars for Old (London 1934). 36 Quoted in E.H. Carr, The Twenty Years' Crisis (2nd edn. London 1946), p. 35. 37 Not to be confused with the 'Peace Pledge' which 120,000 people signed by spring 1938: We renounce war and never again will we support or sanction another.' 77 cent returned a firm 'no'.38 It was a remarkable manifestation of that public opinion in which Bentham had placed so much confidence and which had so repeatedly let down his disciples; and it no doubt encouraged the National Government, when it went to the country the following October, to declare that 'the League of Nations will remain the keystone of British foreign policy.' But no less important was the attitude of the Labour Party. In 1933 the Party Conference had supported a mo