ore surprising was the venom with which the gentle Goldsworthy Lowes Dickinson, writing after the war, was to express himself on the subject. Serbia he described as a 'little primitive, barbarous, aggressive state' and the Balkan States in general as 'those bellicose hordes of primitive and violent men.'10 Some liberals, Norman Angell among them, began to wonder whether it was not nationalism, rather than capitalism, that was the real enemy of peace, and whether there was any neces- sary connection between the two. Would National Socialism be any better?11 And would the full implementation of the national idea re- ally lead to a more stable Europe? Brailsford was one of those who contemplated the prospect with something like horror. In 1917 he denounced the activities of such active supporters of Central Europe 8 Kenneth E. Miller, Socialism & Foreign Policy (The Hague 1967), p. 54. Martin, op. cit., p. 66. 9 Miller, op. cit. p. 51. 10 G. Lowes Dickinson, War: its Nature, Cause & Cure (London 1923), pp. 66, 69. 11 Norman Angell, The Unseen Assassins (London 1932), passim. See below, p. 95. 69 nationalist movements as R.W. Seton-Watson and L.B. Namier. It had, he wrote, become 'a generous pastime with our scholars to reconstruct the map of Europe on the basis of nationality, and so sure were those idealists that the reign of force would be abolished that few of them even paused to consider whether a little land-locked Bohemia or diminished but independent Hungary could maintain their sovereignty under the pressure of the great military Empires which would surround them.' These new states, he foresaw, 'would be forced, as they have always been, to oscillate between the German and Russian systems.' Worse, with their minorities, 'each of these little States would reproduce in little the hatreds and confusions of Europe.'12 Ironically, therefore, as Allied war aims hardened in fa- vour of the destruction of the German and Austrian political systems in the name of democra