lcock, 'The British Armaments Industry 1890- 1914: False Legend and True Utility' in G. Best and A. Wheatcroft, eds., War, Economy & the Military Mind (London 1976). 25 Silberner, op. cit. pp. 267 ff.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 54 THE COMING OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR 1870-1914 55 Chi 10 inside Europe capitalists seemed to be co-operating amiably enough, in the extra-European world their competition seemed to be provok- ing dangerous consequences. Published in 1902, immediately after the war in South Africa, Hobson's Imperialism boldly explained the complex phenomenon of imperial expansion in terms of its 'economic tap root'. As one nation after another entered the machine economy and adopted advanced industrial methods, he explained,26 it became more difficult for its manufacturers, merchants and financiers to dis- pose profitably of their economic resources, and they were tempted more and more to use their governments in order to secure for their particular use some distant underdeveloped country by annexation and protection. It had been in response to these pressures that Euro- pean governments had been driven to exploit the undeveloped world and been brought repeatedly to the edge of war as a result. We hardly need to trace the fate of this thesis; how on the one hand it has been buffeted by the work of such historians as Schum- peter, Fieldhouse, Robinson and Gallagher,27 and on the other apotheosised by Lenin, to become one of the fundamental tenets of contemporary Marxist-Leninism. For our purposes it is enough to point out that, in the era of the Fashoda affair, of the Boxer Rebel- lion, of the Boer War, and of the two great crises over Morocco in 1905 and 1911, it appeared remarkably persuasive. By 1913 liberals, radicals and socialists had identified imperialism as one of the two great threats to peace. The other threat was the arms race, for the causes of which they looked no further than the greed and influence of the 'merchants of death'. The armaments