s that caused wars, this com- ment is interesting, to put it no more strongly. But rather less out of character was Hobson's letter to the Manchester Guardian on 10 May 1938 at the time of the first Czech crisis of that year:21 Czecho-Slovakia has never been a nation in any intelligible sense; the pre- tence that it is was one of the worst follies of the post-war treaty ... Czecho- slovakia as a State would not be injured by the withdrawal of a permanently dissatisfied German minority, and though Germany might gain in numbers, territory and industry, is that a proper ground for any further interference on our part? The argument from nationality was thus favourable to the ap- peasement of Germany, even if that from the rights of small states was not; while arguments based on the balance of power could be ignored. Kingsley Martin agreed. In August 1938 in a famous leader in the New Statesman he suggested that 'the Czechs [should] make an imaginative offer of partnership to the Sudeten Germans, to rec- oncile them to existing frontiers. But if ... this is impossible, the question of frontier revision, difficult though it is, should at once be tackled. The strategical value of the Bohemian frontier should not be made the occasion of a world war.'22 Clifford Allen himself spent the last months of his life and the last ounce of his strength in devising and popularising a formula for the peaceful cession of the Sudeten- land to Germany under international guarantee. On 7 October 1938 he was able to write to a colleague: 'It is lovely to think that the actual formula for the Four Power Conference which we worked out and put to Ribbentrop when we were in Berlin, should have been the instrument which saved the peace of the world.'23 He died five 21 Quoted in Gilbert, op. cit. p. 400. 22 In C.H. Rolph, Kingsley: the Life ... of Kingsley Martin (London 1973), p. 245. 23 Gilbert, op. cit. p. 415. 93 months later still a happy man; but only just. Twelve days after his death, Hitl