er or its own legal views, but alone from this great league of nations, from a united power, and from the decision according to laws adopted by the united will.29 For Kant, therefore, a 'hidden hand' was making use even of war itself to bring about eventual harmony, 'perpetual peace'. But he did not, as a result, consider war to be in any sense justifiable; on the contrary, he regarded it as the very antithesis of the moral law. The whole idea of a 'law of war' he held to be self-contradictory. Nor 27 Immanuel Kant, Perpetual Peace: A Philosophical Proposal (Grotius Society Publication No. 7, 1927), p. 25. 28 Ibid. p. 24. 29 Quoted in C.J. Friedrich, Inevitable Peace (Harvard University Press 1948), p. 30.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 18 THE GROWTH OF THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 1500-1792 did the inevitability of war make it, in his view, acceptable; for since eternal peace was the highest good, 'it is', he wrote, 'our duty to act according to the idea of such an end (which reason commands) even if there is not the least probability that it can be achieved'. Indeed, he considered 'the general and continuous establishment of peace con- stitutes not only a part, but 'the entire end purpose of a theory of rights within the limits of pure reason' (my italics).30 To Kant, therefore, to struggle for peace was in itself a moral absolute. Kant thus saw the establishment of 'republican constitutions', or, as we would call them today, 'responsible governments', as an intrinsic part of the establishment of a 'state of peace'; a basis from which mankind could proceed not only to an international system of states reciprocally bound by law, but to an international society of which all men would be free citizens. Rousseau, however, adduced a further argument in favour of 'responsible government'-one which Erasmus had raised before him, though without drawing out the conclusions. 'All the business of kings,' he wrote in his commen- tary on the work of St. Pierre, 'or of those to whom