ism. A man of masterful intellect, Gladstone recognised as fully as did his Con- servative opponents the need for the maintenance of a balance of political power, or as he himself put it, 'the necessity for regulating the distribution of power in Europe.' 'The absorption of power by one of the great potentates of Europe which would follow the fall of the Ottoman Empire,' he told a Manchester audience in 1853, 'would be dangerous to the peace of the world, and it is the duty of England, at whatever cost, to set itself against such a result.'7 But as a man of equally strong emotions, he regarded as intolerable the methods employed by tyrannical governments; whether it was the Bourbons of Naples-'the negation of God erected into a system of government'-or the Zaptiehs and Muders, the Bimbashis and Yuz- bashis, the Kaimakams and the Pashas of the Unspeakable Turk.8 Gladstone saw no contradiction in these attitudes. In the white heat of that powerful mind, the two became fused into a single synthe- sis-the concept of 'the public law of Europe', against which Russian aggression and Turkish atrocities were equally an offence. 5 A.J.P. Taylor, op. cit., p. 71. 6 Morley, Gladstone II, p. 121. 7 Morley, op. cit. I, p. 359. 8 Ibid. I, p. 290. II, p. 121. The trouble was of course that no court existed to declare that law or to apply it. The nearest approximation to such a court, in Gladstone's view, was the Concert of European powers, deliberating and acting in unison.9 But if for any reason they did not so deliber- ate and act, then the British Government, Gladstone affirmed, had the duty to act on their behalf. In 1882 he explained his conduct in authorising the bombardment of Alexandria by the British fleet and the subsequent occupation of Egypt on these grounds: We should not fully discharge our duty if we did not endeavour to convert the present interior state of Egypt from anarchy and conflict to peace and order. We shall look during the time that remains to us to the co