row, would be in danger of humiliations, intimidations and acts of foreign intervention in our national affairs which it is not tolerable for Englishmen to contemplate.'25 There were of course still those who saw the fight against Fascism in terms, not of a national war between the democracies and the Axis powers, but of the inter- national and internal class struggle; who drew no distinction between the capitalist enemy at home and the Fascist enemy abroad, and saw no contradiction in demanding arms for Spain and opposing arms 24 K. Martin, Editor, p. 249. 25 Naylor, op. cit. p. 200.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 94 HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY THE CHALLENGE OF FASCISM 1935-1945 for Britain. 'We are prepared,' said the young Aneurin Bevan at the same Conference, to make whatever sacrifices are necessary, to give whatever arms are neces- sary in order to fight Fascist Powers and in order to consolidate world peace ... [but] we are not going to put a sword in the hands of our enemies that may be used to cut off our own hands.26 But by a ten to one majority their objections were defeated. Hitler's destruction of Czechoslovakia in March 1939 was to re-establish a national consensus as wide as, and considerably more lasting than, that which had appeared to exist in the summer of 1935 over the issue of collective security. The last illusion, that the ap- peasement of Germany's legitimate grievances would restore stability to Europe, had been stripped away. The traditionalists, Churchill at their head, were prepared to fight as they had fought in 1914 and quite often before that, to prevent an accumulation of hostile power on the Continent so great as to destroy Britain's capacity for independent action-for blunt motives, in fact, of power politics; but it was not only traditionalists who were now prepared to think in these terms. As Norman Angell was ruefully to confess in his autobiography, al- though 'Balance of Power had a bad smell with nearly all Liberals, including th