nd the setting up of an Interna- tional Council, whose deliberations and decisions shall be public, with such machinery for securing international agreement as shall be the guarantee of abiding peace. So the idea of a League of Nations, which had been gradually ma- turing since the Thirty Years War, was put forward, no longer as the speculation of the occasional visionary, but as the firm proposal of a group of active politicians, who were rapidly to gain for it widespread and influential support. In the autumn of 1914 a group was formed, under the chairmanship of the elder statesman Lor Lord Bryce, to study future world organisation, and this developed in March 1915 into the League of Nations Society. The object of this society was the creation, at the end of the war, of a League open to all states of the world, who would pledge themselves to submit all disputes to arbi- tration and which would if necessary use severe sanctions to compel aggressor states to do so. Shortly afterwards an equally august body came into being in the United States-a 'League to Enforce Peace' under the presidency of the former President William Howard Taft. This did not speak simply of 'sanctions'. Its declared objective was 'a world organisation which will tend to prevent war by forcing its members to use peaceable means first ... and to make immediate and certain war upon any nation which goes to war without a previous hearing of the dispute.'5 But was such an aspiration realistic, without a transformation in the nature of the governments themselves? Morel himself did not believe so. 'The idea of a federalised Europe,' he wrote, in The Mor- row of the War, regulated by an Areopagus, involving the disappearance, or substantial re- duction of standing armies and navies and the submission of all disputes to a Common Council ... cannot be attained until the constitutionally-gov- 5 Beales, A History of Peace, p. 293. 67 erned democracies of the West are brought to realise how impossible it i