great uniform masses, resulting from a spontaneous popular impulse ... New nationalities 38 Hobson, op. cit. p. 326. 39 Hobson, op. cit. p 326.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 38 WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 prepare everywhere to form ... Which statesmen of yours occupies his thoughts with those configurations of the future whose signs are already on the horizon?'40 Cobden's doctrine of non-intervention, Mazzini condemned as 'abject and cowardly ... atheism transplanted into international life, the deification of self-interest'.41 In the great, inevitable struggle between the forces of liberty and those of oppres- sion, every man of good-will should stand up and be counted. So the wave of the 'Peace Movement', which by the middle of the century seemed to be gathering such irresistible momentum, was met head on by an equally strong current of bellicose nationalism. There is little indication in the works either of the utilitarian philosophers or of the Quaker pamphleteers that they had even begun to under- stand the causes which had set the Revolutionary Wars on foot or the consequences they had had for European society. Cynics might explain British participation in these wars in terms of traditional upper-class obsession with martial glory and middle-class greed or colonial markets, but none of this accounted for the passionate zest with which French armies-and armies composed not of obedient professional soldiers but of French people in arms-flung themselves on their neighbours, overturned their constitutions, and followed Bonaparte to Vienna, to Berlin, to Madrid and to Moscow. Nor did it explain the reaction which this gigantic eruption set on foot in Germany, in Italy, in Russia and in Spain. For the first time millions of men discovered that war was terrible but that it was necessary and might be splendid, and found in the concept of their Nation a cause for which they really were prepared to die. This is not the place to seek to explore the sociologica