nternational Man (London 1918), p. 387. 24 Ibid. p. 94. 25 Donald Read, Cobden and Bright (London 1967), pp. 131, 136.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 34 WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 ness'-tend to deter rather than attract customers.'26 But in his view, profit and peace went hand in hand: Free Trade [he demanded rhetorically at Covent Garden in September 1843 at the height of the Anti-Corn Law campaign], What is it? Why, break- ing down the barriers that separate nations; those barriers behind which nestle the feelings of pride, revenge, hatred and jealousy which every now and then break their bonds and deluge whole countries with blood; those feelings which nourish the poison of war and conquest, which assert that without conquest we can have no trade, which foster that lust for conquest and dominion which sends forth your warrior chiefs to sanction devastation through other lands. 27 And in a memorable phrase he called for 'as little intercourse as possible between Governments, as much connection as possible be- tween the nations of the world.'28 Cobden and Bright had little to add except oratorical passion to the denunciations of the ruling classes (with their vested interest in and their arcane manipulation of the balance of power), which were already commonplace among liberal thinkers; but they made them part of the common currency of political dialogue. 'This excessive love for "the balance of power",' cried Bright in his great philippic at Birmingham in October 1858, 'is neither more nor less than a gi- gantic system of outdoor relief for the aristocracy of Great Britain.'29 Six years later when Palmerston abstained from the intervention on the Schleswig-Holstein crisis, which was to provoke the first war of German unification, Bright rejoiced 'that this foul idol, fouler than any heathen tribe ever worshipped, has at last been thrown down ... it is not possible for the eye of humanity to scan the scroll upon which are recorded the sufferings which th