n order to manage the post-war world in general and post-war Europe in particular. Above all, the United States had to be persuaded to abandon all thought of returning to her pre-war isolation, and if her price was an international organisation strongly weighted against colonialism, and an economic order strongly weighted against eco- 5 For American military suspicions of British intentions see Albert C. Wedemeyer, Wedemeyer Reports (New York 1958). For suspicions of Britain's nuclear intentions, see M.M. Gowing, Britain and Atomic Energy, 1939-1945 (London 1964). For economic difficulties, see Richard N. Gardner, Sterling-Dollar Diplomacy (Oxford University Press 1956). 105 nomic preferences and tariff areas, that price had to paid. American withdrawal from an international system which the British now knew they could never have the strength to manage was seen in London as the ultimate disaster. But almost as bad, in the eyes of the Foreign Office, was the prospect of the settled and implacable hostility of the Soviet Union; for if the Soviet Union were to fall out with its Western Allies, a situation would arise which Germany would not fail to exploit, and use, as France had exploited Allied divisions after 1815, to re-establish herself as a Great Power.6 It would be a rash man, in the absence of adequate documen- tation, who attempted a definitive account of Russian aims and motives in 1945; but fortunately many rash men have done so, and one can now make statements about them which, although far from authoritative, are something more than speculation.7 The policy of the Soviet Union, or rather of Joseph Stalin, appears to have been based even more squarely on traditional principles of power politics than was even that of the United Kingdom. Stalin's main nightmare, like that of the British, was probably the revival of German power; but he saw little prospect of dealing with this simply by co-operat- ing with bourgeois States whose fundamental hostility to the So