Christian, than Erasmus, but he understood that the horrors of war were not to be averted simply by complaining about them. He realised that war would be a problem even for Utopians. He accepted, as thinkers of the next two hundred years were to accept, that European society was organised in a system of states in which war was an inescapable process for the settlement of differences in the absence of any higher common jurisdiction. That being the case, it was a requirement of humanity, of religion and of common sense alike that those wars should be fought in such a manner as to cause as little damage as possible. Soon the details of this philosophy were to be fleshed out by the great international lawyers of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries: Grotius, Pufendorf, and Eméric Vattel. For better or worse, war was an institution which could not be eliminated from the international system. All that could be done about it was, so far as possible, to codify its rationale and to civilise its means. 13 Nearly two hundred years were thus to pass without any great outcry being made against the institution of war, and one may well wonder why. Perhaps on the continent of Europe scholars and men of letters were too dispirited by the black horrors sardonically chroni- cled by Grimmelshausen in Simplius Simplicissimus, while in Eng- land warfare was too much part of a lucrative process of competitive commercial expansion, fought very largely outside Europe, to arouse much humanitarian concern. But some voices rose above the clamour of the Thirty Years War. Grotius opened his De Jure Belli ac Pacis (1625) with a denunciation of the 'license in making war', which he observed all about him, 'of which even barbarous nations would have been ashamed.'14 The French monk Eméric Crucé, whose Nouveau Cynée published in 1623 is remembered chiefly for its pioneer propos- 12 Ibid. p. 211. 13 See J.T. Johnson, Ideology, Reason and the Limitation of War: Religious and Secular Concepts 1200-