o one. Even that severest of critics, Mr A.J.P. Taylor, concluded his account of it by saying that it was a 'good war'.1 Nowhere was this sense of a successful crusade stronger than in the United States. In a unique sense these values were precisely what America was all about; the values to which the Founding Fathers had dedicated their country and which had ever since provided the criteria by which they judged the policy of others and incited their own to be 1 A.J.P. Taylor, The Second World War (London 1975), p. 234. IOI  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE IO2 HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY THE CHALLENGE OF COMMUNISM 1945-1975 judged. In his fascinating book To the Farewell Address? Dr Felix Gil- bert has shown how explicitly George Washington and his generation associated themselves with the ideas of the liberal philosophers of the eighteenth century, with their belief in freedom of opinion and free- dom of trade as the guarantees of perpetual peace; and how explicitly they dissociated themselves from the world of balance of power and secret diplomacy and aristocratic militarism which those philosophers denounced. The United States indeed, virtually alone among nations, found and to some extent still finds its identity not so much in ethnic community or shared historical experience as in dedication to a value system: and the reiteration of these values, the repeated proclamation of and dedication to the liberal creed, has always been a fundamental element in the cohesion of American society. In this respect the United States has always resembled rather a secular church, or perhaps a gigantic sect, than it has the nation- states of the Old World. Like those sects which played so large a part in its foundation, the original concern of the United States had been to keep itself unspotted from the infections of the world, to create an inward-looking community whose members could practise and bear witness to their faith. And again like those sects, which- as we have seen with Qua