k of the First World War was to confirm all these fears. The peacemaking leaders of the International found themselves isolated and unpopular in their own countries. Victor Adler, the Aus- trian socialist, observing the enthusiasm with which the Viennese crowds welcomed the prospect of war with Serbia, sadly concluded, 'it is better to be wrong with the working classes than right against them.'43 The German Social Democrat Wilhelm Dittman justified his party's vote in support of war credits in the Reichstag on the grounds, 'the Party could not act otherwise. It would rouse a storm of indignation among men at the front and people at home against the Social Democratic party if it did. The Socialist organisation would be swept clean away by popular resentment.'44 The pacifist Ramsay MacDonald, after a brave protest in the House of Commons, had to abdicate the leadership of his party. Working-class reactions in 1914, at least in Western Europe, made it clear that, rightly or wrongly, the proletariat did not regard this war as being in any sense a remote question of state policy brought about by the machinations of self- interested elites. They saw it as a matter of national survival in which they were as intimately concerned as anyone else. So convinced were the liberals that if war came it would be as the result of imperialist and capitalist conflicts, that this new War of Na- tions took them completely by surprise. For by 1914 the feeling was growing among liberal thinkers that the danger of war was receding precisely because these economic rivalries had proved a great deal less dangerous than had been expected. The British and the French had composed their differences in Egypt. The French and the Germans had composed their differences in Morocco. The Germans and the British were co-operating amicably in the Ottoman Empire. The Powers of Europe, by their prompt and successful co-operation over the Balkan crisis of 1912, had revealed both a common will and a capacity t