s of military power. Against those who did so think, those ministers and officials whose ideas remained rooted in a world of national rivalries and armaments and alliances, the Labour Party closed its ranks. The Service Estimates were unanimously opposed by the Labour Party by the left wing because they put arms in the hands of the class en- emy, and by the moderates because those arms would not be used in accordance with those principles of collective security in which alone they saw salvation. In February 1936 the New Statesman wrote with some accuracy that the Government wanted arms only 'because ... [it] does not believe in the League and knows that Europe is returning to the old system of the Balance of Power'; and it drew the conclusion, in June, that Labour should 'refuse, and ask everyone to refuse, support of a rearmament designed not for genuine collective security but for a balance of power policy which means war.' The Parliamentary Labour Party took this advice, explaining its opposi- tion to the Service Estimates in terms of 'its entire opposition to the international policy of the Government, of which the rearmament programme is an integral part'.8 The position was explained perhaps most lucidly by the leader of the Party, Clement Attlee, in his testa- ment The Labour Party in Perspective, published in 1937:9 The Labour Party ... can only tolerate armaments as a necessary support for a policy of collective security. It is fully alive to the dangers which exist in Europe, owing to the aggressive policy of the fascist powers, but it has no confidence in the will of the capitalist government to oppose them. There is every indication that the policy pursued is an attempt to play the old game of 'alliances' based on the maintenance of the balance of power. To say that what the Government is doing is necessary for the defence of the country is to beg the whole question. I do not believe that the entry into an arms race 7 Naylor, Labour's International Policy