material force we might have at the end, it would be of very much value in the face of the respect we should have lost. And I do not believe, whether a great Power stands outside this war or not, it is going to be in a position at the end of it 63  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 64 ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 to exert its superior strength ... to prevent the whole of the West of Europe opposite to us-if that had been the result of the war-falling under the domination of a single Power.1 So underlying the issue of the public law of Europe there lay the harsh calculations of that 'foul idol', the balance of power. But under- lying those again was an ideological element which was to increase in strength as the war went on and became the dominant theme in liberal justifications of war in the twentieth century. Germany had to be fought not simply to punish a breach of international law, or to maintain a continental balance. She had to be fought because she was in the grip of a militaristic and destructive philosophy which had to be destroyed if the world was to be made 'safe for democracy'. It took only a very few days for British liberal opinion to come to this conclusion. On 31 July 1914 the Manchester Guardian was still crying a plague on both the belligerent houses and voicing its fear 'lest by some hidden contract England has been technically commit- ted behind her back to the ruinous madness of a share in the wicked gamble of a war between two militaristic leagues on the Continent.' A week later, (6 August) another liberal organ, the Daily News, reluc- tantly accepted a fait accompli: 'It would have been just and prudent and statesman-like for England to have remained neutral ... [but] a mistaken course of policy, pursued over ten years, has led us to the terrible conflict in which we are now engaged ... [and] being in ... we must win.' Two days later it expressed the hope that 'barbarism ... is fighting its last battle.' At the end of September it printed an e