rrack square, under an officer-class which expressed little sympathy for their political views. This, they sometimes felt, was not really their war. One or two felt it so strongly that they preferred to watch at a comfortable distance from the other side of the Atlantic. But the proof of the pudding lay in the eating: in the aims for which the war was fought and the peace which emerged at the end of it. The declaration of Allied objectives made by Neville Chamber- lain immediately on the outbreak of the war was irreproachable. 'In this war,' he said, 'we are not fighting against the German people, for whom we have no bitter feelings, but against a tyrannous and foresworn régime'; and a month later, We are aiming not only at vic- tory but rather look beyond it to the laying of a foundation of a better international system ... I am certain that all the peoples of Europe, including the peoples of Germany, long for peace.'28 Here we have the pure doctrine of the eighteenth-century philosophers; all peoples desire peace, only their rulers drag them into wars. Naturally the La- bour Party agreed: it was Nazism, rather than Germany, that had to be overthrown. The New Statesman heartily applauded the dropping of leaflets, rather than bombs, over Germany on pure Benthamite grounds: 'To enlighten the German people about the behaviour of their rulers,' wrote Kingsley Martin, 'is the most important of all the tasks before us.'29 The belief died hard that 'the German people' 28 Quoted in John Wheeler Bennett and A.J. Nicholls, The Semblance of Peace (London 1972), p. 14. 29 Quoted in T.D. Burridge, British Labour and Hitler's War (London 1976), p. 24.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 96 RO COLLEGE UOD : BU THE CHALLENGE OF FASCISM 1935-1945 were, like all peoples, almost by definition good, and with sufficient encouragement might be persuaded to liberate themselves from their militaristic leaders and reveal themselves to be as rational, democratic and peace-loving as their Englis