te in Labour Party history, by 2,168,000 votes to 102,000-a majority of ninety-five per cent. These decisions, as Clement Attlee was to put it, 47 based Labour's foreign policy on the collective peace system through the League of Nations ... It rejected the theory of the Balance of Power and demanded the subordination of national sovereignty to world obligations ... It linked disarmament with collective security and accepted the obligation to use armed force if necessary in restraining an aggressor State. It is important to see this not as windy rhetoric-an activity for which Attlee was not renowned-but as the considered statement of a clear, constructive and widely held philosophy. On the one hand was the old system of governments pursuing their self-interest, enga- ging in secret dimplomacy, forming alliances, piling up armaments, manipulating a balance of power, leading their peoples through exp- loitation of their patriotic sentiments into a succession of increasingly destructive wars. On the other was a community of like-minded na- tions, their governments responsive to public opinion, co-operating for their mutual benefit, scaling down their armaments, settling their 45 Ibid. pp. 74-5. 46 Ibid. p. 109. 47 Clement Attlee, The Labour Party in Perspective (London 1937), p. 153.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 80 - ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 differences like reasonable men, enjoying peace under a law which, if need be, they would pool their resources to enforce. It was this vision of collective security that inspired at least some of the undergradua- tes in the Oxford Union who in February 1933 supported the famous resolution that 'This House would refuse under any circumstances to fight for King and Country.' They did not refuse to fight at all: and when six years later most of them did fight, it was not from the motives of atavistic patriotism which that phrase conjures up, but in the belief, justified or unjustified, that they were defending the basic prin