ry largely bound up with the degree of vul- garisation due to overtake the several directorates of the belligerent nations.'19 Peace could be made only on the basis of 'unconditional surrender of the formidable warlike nations.'20 Veblen had no belief in the fundamentally democratic nature of German society. The kind of democratic regime which would be indispensable as a working ba- sis for a League of Peace, he considered, 'would from the outset have to be enforced against the most desperate resistance of the ruling 17 Beales, op. cit. pp. 291-2. 18 Quoted by Elie Kedourie, Nationalism (London 1960), p.130. 19 Thorstein Veblen, An Inquiry into the Nature of Peace (New York 1917. 2nd Edn. 1919), pp. 256, 276. 20 Ibid. pp. 239, 243.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 72 2 D TAKVARU COLLEGE LIBRARY ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 classes ... backed by the stubborn loyalty of the subject populace.'21 The German people, in fact, must be forced to be free. Veblen saw clearly two things which most liberal thinkers pre- ferred to ignore. One was the cultural heterogeneity of the world Some societies, for good historical reasons, may at times be more bellicose and hierarchical than others, and one has to accept either the risks of peacefully co-existing with them or the responsibilities of cultural imperialism-of their conquest and re-education. The other was that wars conducted by democratic societies are seldom ended by moderate, negotiated peace. When Bentham looked to public opinion as the great instrument of pacification he could never have conceived of the mass passions that war would unchain in industrial societies. It was public opinion in Britain, France and Italy, acting on impeccably democratic politicians, which made impossible a rational peace. Wilson spoke gallantly of his ability to 'reach the peoples of Europe over the heads of their rulers',22 but he could not reach them half so effectively as could Lloyd George, Clemenceau and Orlando; politicians who, whatev