o the cause of the workers, had come under assault from forces of reaction covertly aided by foreign powers. Some sympathisers stressed the continuity with nineteenth-century struggles. The forces of reaction in Spain- Church, Nobility, Army-were, after all, the same enemies against which Mazzini, Garibaldi and their followers had fought for so long. It was the hope of liberation from ancient tyranny that inspired re- sistance to Franco ... ' wrote Kingsley Martin. 'The issue was whether Spain must for ever remain a backward, uneducated, impoverished land under the autocratic rule of priests and the army.'13 Many young Englishmen of the upper classes went to fight in Spain consciously in the spirit of Lord Byron. Stephen Spender was one. 'I support Spain,' he wrote, 'exactly such a movement in liberal and liberating nationalism as the English liberals supported in many countries all groaning under feudalism in the nineteenth century.'14 Others, working-class militants, saw Spain as a battleground where they could work out the class struggle which they believed to be universal and only latent within their own community.15The fight against Fascism in Spain was for them the same fight that had to be waged against the forces of reaction and oppression at home. But in Spain the enemy was visible and accessible. You could shoot at him. Finally there were other ardent spirits who sought release from a more generalised malaise. In an anthology on conscientious ob- jection, published before the Spanish Civil War even began, Julian Bell, one of the young Cambridge intellectuals who was to die in Spain, wrote:16 12 Quoted in Watkins, op. cit. p. 148. 13 Kingsley Martin, Editor, p. 211. 14 Samuel Hayes, The Auden Generation (London 1976), p. 263. 15 Watkins, op. cit. p. 172. 16 Julian Bell, ed. We Did Not Fight, quoted in Hynes, op. cit. p. 195.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 90 HARVARD COLLEGE (IBR &SV THE CHALLENGE OF FASCISM 1935-1945 The most active and ardent war resister