esulted in twenty-five years of war, between 1689 and 1713, which had left France destitute. No wonder the French economists changed their tune. Even before Adam Smith and the Physiocrats published their famous treatises, the whole apparatus of mercantilism was coming under attack by writers such as Jean- François Melon (1675- 1738), Marquis D'Argenson (1694- 1757), and Ange Goudar (1720- 1791).24 The spirits of war and of commerce, insisted these thinkers, were mutually incompatible. No one could profit from wars except a few contractors and, of course, armaments manufacturers. Trade should be free, they argued, since economic rivalry was a powerful contribu- tory cause of wars. By the mid-eighteenth century all the material was at hand to be put together by François Quesnay, Turgot, and the Physiocrats in France, by Adam Smith and his followers in England, into a comprehensive theory, which went something like this. The laws of nature dictated harmony and co-operation. Providence had linked mankind by a chain of reciprocal needs which made impos- sible a priori any clash of economic interests (what the Marxists were later to term 'False Consciousness') that led to conflict and war. It should therefore, urged Quesnay, be the object of good government to avoid all possible cause for war, to concentrate as exclusively as possible upon the production of wealth. 25 But how could any such policy be expected so long as government remained in the hands of the war-making classes who perpetuated the life-style and perceptions of their feudal ancestors? Even Mon- tesquieu qualified his analysis of war as a necessary consequence of man's social condition by the bold and unhistorical statement, 'The spirit of monarchy is war and enlargement of dominion: peace and moderation are the spirit of a republic.'26 And in Prussia Immanuel 24 Silberner, Pensée économique du XVI au XVIII siècle, pp. 172- 180. 25 Silberner, op. cit. p. 196. 26 Montesquieu, op. cit., IX. 2, p. 127. 17 Kant