of his ability to 'reach the peoples of Europe over the heads of their rulers',22 but he could not reach them half so effectively as could Lloyd George, Clemenceau and Orlando; politicians who, whatever their own feelings, accepted the truth of Victor Adler's dictum that it was better to be wrong with the people than right against them. Wilson was himself tragically to make the same discovery. So the Versailles settlement was made, and it lay on the liberal conscience like a burden of original sin. 'It was exactly as we had prophesied,' wrote Charles Trevelyan, 'the Imperialist War had end- ed in the Imperialist Peace.'23 Behind a façade of high-flown liberal sentiments about democracy and national delf-determination, the British government and its allies had conducted the war as they had conducted all previous wars-for the national self-aggrandisement of their own states, making secret agreements to distribute enemy possessions among themselves, taking no account of the wishes of the peoples concerned. The one clear note which Liberal leaders had struck at the beginning of the war, Trevelyan pointed out, 21 Ibid. p. 243. 22 Martin, op. cit. p. 179. 23 Quoted in John F. Naylor, Labour's International Policy (London 1969), p.4. 73 was the right of all peoples to self-determination. They called for sympathy for Croats and Czecho-Slovaks and Italians under Austrian rule. They de- manded the independence of Poland. But when Europe began to be repar- titioned at Paris and a dozen new oppressions were substituted for the old ones, there was no protest in the name of principle or justice or Liberal- ism against the fate of Germans annexed to Poland, Austrians to Italy and Czecho-slovakia, Serbs and Hungarians to Romania, Bulgarians to Serbia ... Their Liberal 'war to end war' has closed with an imperialist peace to per- petuate national injustice and armaments.24 On this Trevelyan spoke for the UDC liberals as a whole, and at the end of the war this group transferred their