the decision if necessary to use force to protect their interests. The answer cannot lie, as Rousseau sardonically sug- gested, in the dissolution of the sovereign state for, as Rousseau also perceived, it is only by the creation of a sovereign state with which they can completely identify themselves that men can feel themselves to be fully free. To this extent surely Mazzini was right: in order to have internationalism one must first create nations; and those peoples who have already achieved cultural self-consciousness and political independence can all too easily forget the claims of those who have not. In the era of the French revolution French liberals ignored German nationalism. In 1848 the German liberals ignored Slav nationalism.22 In the era of the First World War Western liber- als were increasingly embarrassed by the claims of East European nationalism. And since the Second World War liberals of Western 22 It is interesting to compare Fichte's attack on the egocentricity of French Nationalism in his Thirteenth Address to the German Nation (Sämmtiche Werke, (Leipzig 1845-6) vol. viii, pp. 459-80) with the way the German liberals at the Frankfurt Assembly in 1848 treated 'the attempts of puny nationalities to found their own lives in our midst, and like parasites to destroy ours.' (L.B. Namier, 1848: the Revolution of the Intellectuals, p. 120.)  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE I18 THE CHALLENGE OF COMMUNISM 1945-1975 Europe and the United States have only slowly and painfully come to terms with the nationalism of the Third World. Frantz Fanon was saying no more than Mazzini had before him when he maintained that there are times when the only way of asserting an identity may be by the use of force.23 Where Mazzini and imitators were at fault was in assuming that because the creation of nation states was a nec- essary condition for peace, it would also be a sufficient one. At the root of this dilemma of liberal thinkers lies the habit, far older even than Era