ed before him.'32 And Brailsford in 191433 saw the problem as being how the will of a democracy, how the small governing class, which everywhere promotes its own economic ends and imposes them on public opinion, as it becomes enlightened, [my italics] may check and guide the working of diplomacy.' Most English liberals, when they spoke of 'educated public opin- ion', clearly had in mind people of the same stamp as themselves. the middle-class heirs of the enlightenment, and those industrious. educated mechanics whom they could recruit into their ranks. Their socialist colleagues, especially those on the Continent, cast their net wider. By 'the people' they meant the proletariat: the wage-slaves who, they declared, were always the losers even from a successful war. Brailsford himself had come to this conclusion, as Charles Trevelyan was soon to do in his turn. The liberals, wrote Brailsford scathingly, Talking today of disarmament and arbitration ... will work tomorrow for a party which is hardly less dependent than its rival on the great contractors and bankers who maintain the modern connection of diplomacy and finance. The work of education and organisation on behalf of peace is carried on adequately only by the Socialist parties, and they alone represent a force whose undivided vote will always be cast against militarism and imperialism.34 Such of course was the doctrine of the leaders of the Socialist International. 'Do you know what the proletariat is?' Jean Jaurès 32 Quoted in L.W. Martin, Peace without Victory (Yale U.P. 1958), p. 11. 33 H.N. Brailsford, The War of Steel and Gold (London 1914), p. 170. 34 Ibid. p. 161. It was no new thing for the middle-class liberals, disillusioned with their own sector of society, to look to the workers to redeem the time. Cobden, finding the people of Lancashire 'growing conservative and aristocratic with their prosperous trade' felt it necessary for the Peace Movement to look to the common people. 'After all, our business