ism as one of the two great threats to peace. The other threat was the arms race, for the causes of which they looked no further than the greed and influence of the 'merchants of death'. The armaments firms were denounced in lurid terms: Too much insistence [wrote one typical Radical organ in 1913]28 cannot be made upon the helpless condition of European civilisation in face of the war spectre whose errors and alarms are, as all the world knows, manipulated and stage-managed by Krupp and their congeners in every land ... An un- 26 J.A. Hobson, Imperialism (London 1902), p. 76. 27 Joseph A. Schumpeter, Imperialism and Social Classes (Oxford 1951). D.K. Fieldhouse, Economics and Empire 1830-1914 (London 1973). R.E. Robinson and J. Gallagher, Africa and the Victorians (London 1961). 28 Concord, June 1913, quoted in A.J.A. Morris, Radicals against War, p. 335. scrupulous and inscrutable power of evil, richer than fabled Croesus, pano- plied in steel and capable of transmuting the generous blood of heroes into the sordid gold of the safe and snug actionnaires, had sprung up in the heart of the nations ... The mouthpiece of the Labour Party, Labour Leader, declared at the same time: The Armaments Trust is the most terrible of all Capitalism's evils. It is an international conspiracy trading in death ... Is it not time that the workers of [all] nations slayed the hideous octopus which lives on their blood?29 Here again we can see an understandable confusion of cause and effect. It was hard to see who profited from the frenetic build-up of armaments in Europe during the pre-war years except Krupp and Vickers and Schneider-Creusot and Skoda; and it was easy to isolate these elements in a complex and dangerous situation and identify them as its fundamental causes. It was a view which was to receive the measured support of no less a figure than Sir Edward Grey, a man who in other respects had little time for the radicals: Great armaments [he was to write, in a much-quoted pass