of wealth which alone could ensure the greatest happiness of the greatest number. 'In every country where industry is free and where men are secure in the enjoyment of what they acquire, the greatest improvement which the government can possibly receive is steady and enlightened aversion to war,' he wrote in 1808.8 'Nothing can compensate the destruction of war. The creative efforts of individuals can never equal its gigantic consumption, and the seeds of prosperity are eaten up.' The economist John McCulloch considered it to be the primary task of political economists to destroy the mercantilist fal- lacy that war could ever be economically advantageous. 'The greater part of the war of the last century,' he wrote in 1824, 'with the excep- tion of those that grew out of the French Revolution, were waged for the purpose of preserving or acquiring some exclusive commercial 7 See e.g. Phyllis Deane, 'War and Industrialisation' in J.M. Winter, ed. War and Economic Development (Cambridge U. P. 1975). 8 James Mill, Commerce Defended (London 1808), pp. 120-121. 29 advantage. But does anyone suppose that these contests could have been carried on, at such infinite expense of blood and treasure, had the mass of the people known that their object was utterly unattain- able?" Two decades later, in 1848, John Stuart Mill was able to write almost as of a fait accompli: 'It is commerce which is rapidly rendering war obsolete, by strengthening and multiplying the personal interests which act in natural opposition to it. And it may be said without exaggeration that the great extent and rapid increase of international trade, in being the principal guarantee of the peace of the world, is the great permanent security for the uninterrupted progress of the ideas, the institutions, and the character of the human race.'10 The same ideas were increasingly popular beyond the Channel. There the French economist Jean-Baptiste Say was also emphasising the counter-productiveness of war; which ca