im. As a young man Trevelyan set himself against the militant impe- rialism of the Joseph Chamberlain era, and opposed the Boer War. He was, oddly enough, prominent as a 'pro-Boer' while his brother Charles was flirting with Liberal Imperialism. In 1914 the roles were to be reversed. Charles resigned his ministerial post at the Board of Education in protest against Britain's declaration of war. He helped to found the Union for Democratic Control; he laboured unceas- ingly for a negotiated peace with Germany, and in 1918 he joined the Labour Party; informing his brother Robert that 'the only way 3 to internationalism is through revolution ... it is only through unity among the socialists of the world that internationalism can begin.'4 It was a course which was to lead him to the far Left of the Labour Party and indeed beyond it. In 1939, together with Stafford Cripps and Aneurin Bevan, he was to be expelled from the Party for his con- tinued advocacy of the Popular Front with the Communists. But his brother George had no qualms about the Great War. This conflict was not, he wrote to Charles, simply another manifestation of upper- class militarism such as Bright had attacked in the Crimea and he had himself opposed in South Africa. 'This war,' he told himself, 'is life and death.' He was to serve with gallantry and enthusiasm among his beloved Italians in what he saw as the last stage of the struggle for unity whose early history he had chronicled with such loving care. The Trevelyan brothers can be seen as embodying two distinct tra- ditions in the liberal philosophy about war and international relations, and it is with the development and interaction of these strands that this work will be concerned. Both have a long and honourable line- age and remain strong sources of inspiration today. I have chosen the term 'liberal conscience', for the word 'conscience' implies not simply a belief or an attitude but also an inner compulsion to act upon it. And by 'liberals' I m