war to end wars. The views of the Union for Democratic Control were set out in a pamphlet by its most active member, E.D. Morel, The Morrow of the War. This expounded the orthodox liberal doctrine about the causa- tion of wars in terms which showed how little British liberal thinking about international politics had changed since the days of Jeremy Bentham and Tom Paine.4 The theory of 'the Balance of Power' and secret diplomacy [wrote Morel] are two factors which, in combination, make for war. Two other factors intimately associated with these ensure its certainty. They are: a constant progression in expenditure upon armaments, and the toleration of a private armaments interest. There should therefore be, as part of the peace settlement, drastic reduction of armaments, and general nationalisation of armaments manufacture. There should be adequate machinery for ensuring dem- ocratic control of foreign policy. No improvement could be hoped for on the international scene 'if the political and democratic system and methods which preceded the war are maintained afterwards and if the settlement rests solely in the hand of those committed by as- 4 E.D. Morel, The Morrow of the War (London 1914). On the UDC see Marvin Swartz, The Union of Democratic Control in British Politics during the First World War (Oxford 1971).  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 66 ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 sociations and tradition to such a system.' No transfers of territory should take place without the consent of the populations, obtained by internationally-supervised plebiscites. And most important of all: The Foreign Policy of Great Britain shall not be aimed at creating Alliances for the purpose of maintaining the Balance of Power, but shall be directed to concerted action between the Powers, and the setting up of an Interna- tional Council, whose deliberations and decisions shall be public, with such machinery for securing international agreement as shall be the guarantee of abiding peace.