he same to them whether they live under German troopers or French troopers ... commit a sophism which by its very absurdity makes refutation difficult. The truth is that wherever there are countries, that is historical groups having a consciousness of their continuity and their unity, any attack on the freedom and integrity of those countries is an attack against civilisation, a relapse into barbarism.37 For the German socialists, Bebel had said much the same; The soil of Germany, the German fatherland, belongs to us the German masses as much and more than to the others. If Russia, the champion of ter- ror and barbarism, went to attack Germany to break and destroy it ... we are as much concerned as those who stand at the head of Germany.38 And the Englishman Brailsford agreed: 35 George Haupt, Socialism and the Great War (Oxford U.P. 1972), p. 11. 36 James Joll, The Second International (London 1955), p. 153. 37 Ibid., p. 112. 38 Loc. cit.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 58 THE COMING OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR 1870-1914 59 Chi 10 F The right of every nationality to defend its liberty and its identity against conquest is a right which Socialism has always been the first to respect and will be the last to abandon. The general adoption of Hervé's theories by the more advanced nations would be merely an invitation to the less advanced to conquer and enslave them ... The country which had the most socialists would be the first to be devoured and exploited by its neighbours. 39 The working classes, then, were depicted by their leaders as being no less patriotic than any other section of the community. Was there any reason to suppose that they were in practice more passionately attached to the cause of peace? We have seen how disillusioned Cob- den had become as a result of the Crimean War. During the Boer war his successors had fared no better. Objectors to the war were vilified in the popular press, had their meetings broken up, were subjected to physical attack. After that