t line of that confrontation between the forces of democracy and the forces of totalitarianism, the forces of freedom and the forces of tyranny, from which they had stood so disastrously aside when it had first developed in Europe ten years earlier. They were not going to make that mistake again. Nor were they going to make the mistake of 'appeasing' the enemy. As the Republican senator Vandenberg put it, to quote only one voice in a mighty chorus, 'Appeasement simply feeds the hazard from which it seeks to escape ... Munich was a ghastly mistake.'13 This time the United States would stand firm against the aggression which, in 1948, seemed about to unroll; in Czecho-Slovakia in February 1948, a melancholy decade after its first rape; in Berlin in June of the same year, where the Soviet-im- posed blockade, which was probably a local manoeuvre in the com- plex framework of Allied disagreement over occupation policy, was magnified by the harassed American commander in Germany into a deliberate attempt to test the nerve of the entire Free World, and so evoked an appropriately heroic response;14 and above all two years 12 Harry S. Truman, Memoirs, vol. II. Years of Trial and Hope 1946-53 (London 1956), p. 112. 13 Wheeler Bennett & Nicholls, op. cit. p. 431. 14 J.E. Smith, ed. The Papers of General Lucius D. Clay (Bloomington and London 1974), vol. II, esp. pp. 447-623. 109 later in Korea, where the North Korean attack in June 1950 seemed to give proof that the Communist threat was world wide. Here the lessons of the Thirties appeared at their least equivocal. President Truman had recorded his own reaction to the news of the North Korean attack:15 In my generation, this was not the first time that the strong had attacked the weak. I recalled some earlier instances, Manchuria, Ethiopia, Austria. I remembered how, each time the democracies failed to act, it had encouraged the aggressors to keep going ahead ... If the Communists were permitted to force their way into the Rep