vernment'-one which Erasmus had raised before him, though without drawing out the conclusions. 'All the business of kings,' he wrote in his commen- tary on the work of St. Pierre, 'or of those to whom they delegate their duties, is concerned with two objects alone; to extend their rule abroad or make it more absolute at home.' War was indispensable to them in consolidating their hold over their peoples; as a result, 'con- quering princes make war at least as much on their subjects as their enemies.'31 If it was true that the end of absolutism would mean the end of war, then the converse would also be the case. The abolition of war would strike such a mortal blow at the raison d'être and the con- trolling mechanism of governments that they could never be brought to consent it. Rousseau therefore saw no prospect of schemes such as St. Pierre's League of States becoming adopted except as the result of revolutions; 'and on this assumption,' he remarked dryly, 'which of us would venture to say whether this European League is more to be desired or feared?'32 So the idea of the economists, that wars arose from a failure to appreciate the underlying harmony of nature and so to legislate as to 30 Friedrich, op. cit., pp. 85-6. 31 Rousseau, Perpetual Peace, p. 105. 32 Ibid., p. 113. 19 give it full scope, merged easily into the view of the philosophes, that war was rooted in the vested interests of the ruling classes, of the ar- istocracy against the Third Estate, and that it would never disappear until those classes were overthrown. One of the most extreme and consistent members of this latter school was Marquis de Condorcet, who constantly reiterated the view that 'the people' were always peace loving, plunged only by the whim of their rulers into war. For this situation, he maintained, diplomats had to bear a primary responsi- bility. So far instead of preventing war, diplomats only provoked it. Diplomacy, according to one of his contemporaries, was 'an obscure art which h