e co-opted-or aban- doned-in the process. It was a policy identified, rightly or wrongly, with the regime of President Ronald Reagan. Certainly the fact that the Soviet Union collapsed on his watch and the Cold War ended in total and bloodless triumph seemed to vindicate the neo-conserva- tive creed. Two further decades have now passed, which saw the revival of something like classical liberalism under President Clinton and the elder President Bush, when the United States co-operated with allies and former adversaries, under the aegis of the United Nations, in maintaining 'collective security' and using force only if necessary to do so. But then came the shock of 9/11, and the revelation that the United States had enemies who could inflict terrible damage on her people and be neither deterred nor defeated by traditional means. At the same time the power and reach of America's armed forces was unsurpassed in the history of mankind. Given these circumstances the neo-conservatives were able to argue persuasively that American policy need no longer be shackled by the alliances and constraints involving both a 'realist' policy of bargaining with adversaries or a liberal one of international co-operation. America would fight her own 'War against Terror'. The war in Iraq was the result. At the moment of writing it has not yet ended. 'History' does not repeat itself, but events sometimes significantly recur. Readers will find on these pages the words used by Gladstone, the very embodiment of 'the liberal conscience', to justify Britain's unilateral invasion of Egypt in 1882: We should not fully discharge our duty if we did not endeavour to convert the present state of Egypt from anarchy and conflict to peace and order. We shall look ... to the co-operation of the Powers of civilised Europe. But if every chance of obtaining co-operation is exhausted, the work will be undertaken by the single power of England.'  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE viii It was. The campaign was bri