he world. 101 290 1 A good account is to be found in F.S.L. Lyons, Internationalism in Europe 215| 1815-1914 (Leyden 1963). 2 Ibid. p. 239iqmal gıdads Yet all this civilised intercourse raised an issue which has plagued 45 liberals from that day to this; what if the people you are dealing with are not, by your standards, civilised? What if their power is based on oppression of nationalities and the denial of human rights? It was all very well for Cobden to advocate 'as little intercourse as possible between the Governments, as much as possible between the nations of the world'; but it is only by intercourse between the governments that issues of war and peace can be settled, that arbitration can be substituted for fighting; and governments are ultimately in a posi- tion to determine whether there will be any intercourse between the nations they govern or not. Specifically, then as now, British liberals were divided between those who welcomed the elimination of fric- tion between their own country and the Russian and Ottoman Em- pires, and those who could barely contain their indignation at seeing the British government shaking the bloody hand of those oppressors of the subject races. Cobden, until the end of his life, stoutly refused to admit that any problem existed beyond the capacity of 'the hidden hand' to resolve. 'I think there is a Divine Providence which will obviate this difficulty,' he told his critics in the Commons,3 'and I don't think that Provi- dence has given it into our hands to execute His behests in this world. I think, when injustice is done, whether in Poland or elsewhere, that the very process of injustice is calculated, if left to itself, to promote its own cure.' But this laissez-faire doctrine, in politics as in econom- ics, was decreasingly popular. John Stuart Mill in 1874 expressed his support for armed intervention to redress the balance when a people were fighting for liberty against even a native tyranny, if that tyranny was being help