y leave idle and uncultivated and refuse the use and occupancy of it to others who according to the law of nature ought to be supported from it.'10 Thus, while perpetuating the medieval concept of the 'just' war, More looked blandly forward to the colonial wars of the next three hundred years. But whatever their justification, wars should not, in More's view, be fought as men of the Renaissance fought them-at least those fought in Northern Europe. There was to be no glory in them, and as little blood should be shed as possible. War should be the continuation of policy, and with the minimal admixture of other means. As a result, More has his Utopians conduct their wars with hu- mane ruthlessness. They had, he said, 'this one aim in war, to accom- plish what they would gladly have achieved without war if just terms had been granted in time.'11 They set a premium, not on courage and honour, but on skill and cunning. They offered rewards for the as- sassination of enemy leaders. They fomented internal factions, and if that did not work 'then they arouse the neighbouring people against the enemy and induce them to revive some old claims, such as kings never lack.' If possible they used mercenaries rather than fought themselves; but if forced to it 'they join battle with a boldness as great as their prudence in avoiding it ... Their skill in warfare increases their valour, and the sound ideas instilled into them in childhood by 9 St. Thomas More, Complete Works, Edward Surtz and J.H. Hexter, ed. (Yale University Press 1965), vol. iv. pp. 201ff. 10 Ibid. p. 137. 11 Ibid. p. 203.  IO WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE THE GROWTH OF THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 1500-1792 instruction and the wise institutions of the commonwealth add to their courage.'12 More was no less humane, not to say Christian, than Erasmus, but he understood that the horrors of war were not to be averted simply by complaining about them. He realised that war would be a problem even for Utopians. He accepted, as t