cumstances in which for some people it did pay. 'Conquests made by New Zealanders,' he admitted, 'have some sense in them.' So would conquests made by a modern despot on the continent of Europe: 'The new property, being contiguous, is laid on his old property,' wrote Bentham, a decade before Bonaparte began his career of conquest. 'The inhabitants, as many as he thinks fit to set his mark on, go to increase his armies; their substance, as much as he thinks fit to squeeze from them, goes into his own purse."6 By this criterion the wars not only of Bonaparte, but of Hitler, were perfectly rational. But how, in that case, could they have been checked by an international Court of Judicature? And why should such despots permit any outside body to decide what should or should not be pub- lished within their domains? It might have been expected that the experience of the Napoleonic Wars would have discredited the ideas of Bentham and the philos- ophes. The destruction of the feudal 'establishment' and the advent of popular democracy in France, so far from ushering in a new era of peaceful co-operation, unchained a bellicose regime, which had in- flicted on Europe the worst wars that the Continent had experienced for two hundred years. It is hardly surprising that in 1815 European statesmen should have seen the best hope of peace to lie in the recon- stitution of exactly those diplomatic mechanisms and balances, those confidential understandings and assurances, which liberals believed to be one of the major causes of war. Yet the experiences of 1792 to 1815 led liberal thinkers in France and Britain, and to a growing extent in the United States, not to re-examine their diagnosis of the causes of war, but to intensify their search for a cure along the lines which had already become for them almost traditional. It is indeed from the end of the Napoleonic Wars that one can date the beginning of what was to become known as 'the Peace Movement'; that is, the political organisati