n & New York 1963). 107 til it received a check. Soviet power must therefore be contained, by firm declarations of interest and, where necessary, by displays of strength; by operating in fact, the traditional mechanism of the bal- ance of power. Poland might have to be yielded, but there were other areas as yet unconquered where Soviet expansion seemed to threaten: the Mediterranean, for example. In the Mediterranean the British found themselves engaged at the end of the war in a regional power confrontation whose origins went back to the early nineteenth century and which, under the harmless-sounding title of 'The Eastern Question' had been accepted by European statesmen almost as an intrinsic element in the pat- tern of power politics: the attempt, by supporting local governments in those regions, to prevent the Russians from establishing an as- cendancy in the Middle East and the Levant. Britain's instruments in this confrontation were the governments of Greece and Turkey. The Western orientation of both was maintained by the traditional mechanisms of diplomatic pressure, financial aid and military sup- port. But in February 1947 the British Government, in the grip of the first great economic crisis to affect it after the war, decided that the confrontation was too expensive to sustain. Subsidies to these two client states had come to an end. 'The Great Game' against Rus- sia in the Mediterranean, which Stratford de Redcliffe had initiated a hundred years earlier, had to be abandoned. Historians agree that it was this decision that compelled the United States Government to make its first clear and overt move in the field of European power politics; but it could not be presented as such to a Congress congenitally suspicious of picking British impe- rial chestnuts out of the fire. The Republican leaders made it clear to the Administration that they could support such a move if it were explained in terms that would make sense to the liberal conscience;11 and in cons