e two. The men both of the Truman and the Eisenhower administra- tions knew this very well. Many of them appreciated the exaggerated and rhetorical nature of their declaratory policy. But to confront and contain Soviet power, even in the most limited realpolitik situations, they needed power of their own, and if popular constraints presented them with the sole alternatives of impotence and overkill, they set- tled for the latter-and, with it, for the greatest arms race in the history if the world. Yet the difference between the expert perceptions and popular rhetoric was not always very great. Nowhere was it narrower than in the case of Vietnam. In November 1951 Dean Rusk, then Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs, made a speech setting out official American policy towards, as it then was, French Indo-China: The real issue in Indo-China is whether the peoples of that land will be permitted to work out their future as they see fit, or whether they will be subjected to a Communist reign of terror and be absorbed by force into the new colonialism of a Soviet Communist Empire. In this situation it is generally agreed in the United States that we should support and assist the 18 Paul Y. Hammond, The Cold War Years: American Foreign Policy since 1945 (New York 1969), p. 136.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE II2 HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY THE CHALLENGE OF COMMUNISM 1945-1975 armies of France and of the associated States in meeting the armed threat in Indo-China. 19 So the Truman Doctrine was extended to Vietnam, and the French armies and their supporters were cast in the role of 'free peo- ples resisting attempted subjugation'. But the confidential calcula- tions of realpolitik in the National Security Council presented a more alarming picture: The loss of any of the countries of South East Asia to communist control [ran one report in June 1952] as a consequence of overt or covert Chinese Communist aggression would have critical psychological, political and eco