terests among their allies than they did among their enemies. Thirdly, liberals laid the blame for war on the diplomats and their manipulation of the balance of power. Again, clumsy diplo- macy and ruthless power politics can cause wars, much as bad driving can cause traffic accidents. But power politics, as Norman Angell came to recognise, are the politics of not being overpowered. All the liberal thinkers we have considered, with the exceptions only of Erasmus and Jonathan Dymond, were prepared to fight wars of self- defence. But it is the business of statesmen and diplomats to make it unnecessary to fight such wars or to ensure that, if they do come, II7 their country should not be confronted by a coalition so overwhelm- ing, and be left so bereft of help, that it fights in a helpless cause. To transcend this necessity and create a genuine world system of collec- tive security has been the aim of liberal statesmen throughout this century. But such a system demands a degree of mutual confidence, a homogeneity of values and a coincidence of perceived interests such as did not exist even in the limited society of inter-war Europe. We are a long way from creating it in the culturally heterogeneous world which we inhabit today. The basic fact that has been recognised by every serious political thinker who has turned his attention to the matter-by More and Bacon, by Hobbes and Locke, by Montesquieu and Rousseau, by Kant and Hegel-is that war is an inherent element in a system of sovereign states which lacks any supreme and acknowledged arbiter; and the more genuinely those states, by reason of their democratic structure, embody indigenous and peculiar cultural values and percep- tions, the less likely are they to sacrifice that element of sovereignty which carries with it the decision if necessary to use force to protect their interests. The answer cannot lie, as Rousseau sardonically sug- gested, in the dissolution of the sovereign state for, as Rousseau also perceive