like that of the British, was probably the revival of German power; but he saw little prospect of dealing with this simply by co-operat- ing with bourgeois States whose fundamental hostility to the Soviet Union he saw no cause to question. In a world with no certain allies it was clearly wise to extend one's frontiers by unilateral action and consolidate one's power as far to the west as possible; certainly as far as the frontiers of the Russian Empire as they had existed before the Treaty of Brest Litovsk. Stalin had made his intentions clear to the British as early as December 1941; and embarrassing as they were to the nation whose guarantee to uphold the integrity and independence of Poland had brought them into the war in the first place, the British realised that there was little they could do about them. In the division of Eastern Europe into 'spheres of influence' which Stalin and Churchill, in one of the most blatant acts of old-style realpolitik since the French Rev- 6 British official thinking can be traced in the records of the Post-Hostilities Planning Committee for 1943-45 in the Public Records Office, CAB 81. 7 Of the numerous works by American and British sovietologists I would single out Adam B. Ulam, Expansion and Co-Existence; the History of Soviet Foreign Policy 1917-1967 (London 1968) as the most persuasive.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 106 HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY THE CHALLENGE OF COMMUNISM 1945-1975 olution, had made in the autumn of 1944, the British laid no claim to influence in Poland at all. But for the United States the situation was intolerable. It was made so not simply by the problem of the ethnic vote at home, as Roosevelt explained to an apparently sympa- thetic Stalin at Tehran. The principle was all important. 'I am afraid,'8 Averill Harriman, American Ambassador in Moscow, explained to President Truman in June 1945, 'that Stalin does not and never will understand our interest in a free Poland as a matter of principle. He is a rea