orts whose very faces and shouts strike terror to the heart; the iron-clad troops drawn up in a battle-array, the terrifying clash and flash of arms, the hateful noise and bustle of a great multitude, the threatening looks, harsh bugles, startling peal of trumpets, thunder of the bombards ... a mad uproar, the furious shock of battle, and then wholesale butchery, the cruel face of the killers and the killed, the slaughtered lying in heaps, the fields running with gore, the rivers dyed with human blood ... 1 Erasmus' disgust at war in fact was probably provoked, as is so often the case, far more by a purely personal, emotional shock: the death of his beloved pupil Alexander, son of King James IV of Scotland, a beautiful, wise, learned young man who was killed with his father at the battle of Flodden: 'Tell me,' lamented Erasmus in his threnody, 'what had you to do with Mars, the stupidest of all the poet's gods, you who were consecrated to the Muses, nay to Christ? Your mouth, your beauty, your gentle nature, your honest mind-what had they to do with the flourishing of trumpets, the bombards, the swords?'2 "The stupidest of all the gods': that surely is a new note. War was stupid. It was irrational. It was neither glorious nor necessary. Those who conducted it were worthy not of admiration but of contempt. Erasmus despised the profession of arms with a scorn which genera- tions of intellectuals were to inherit. 'Military idiots,' he called them, 'thick-headed lords ... not even human except in appearance."Among the soldiers,' he wrote bitterly, 'the one who has conducted himself with the most savagery is the one who is thought to be captain in the next war.'3 Such a view went against the whole grain of contemporary 1 Desiderius Erasmus, Dulce Bellum Inexpertis in M.M. Phillips, ed., Erasmus and His Times (Cambridge 1967), p. 110. 2 Spartam nactus es, hanc orna in Phillips, op. cit., p. 105. 3 Ibid. p. 116-125. 7 culture. Virtú, the all-round excellence to which Renai