ead. The apotheosis of German liberalism, as of German nationalism, came when the King of Prussia allowed himself to be made Emperor of Germany, at Versailles in January 1871, after a war fought, consciously and willingly, not by any mere alliance of independent states but by a united German nation. As for freedom of trade promoting peace, the Prussian econo- mist Friedrich List (1789-1846) argued, as many other have since, that 'Under the existing conditions of the world the result of general free trade would not be a universal republic but on the contrary, a universal subjection of the less advanced nations to the supremacy of the predominant manufacturing, commercial, and naval power.' Commercial protection, pointed out List, was 'a natural consequence of the striving of nations for guarantees of their permanency and prosperity or predominant power.' And war itself could be a factor in economic growth; not only by inducing agrarian states to indus- trialise themselves, but in general by promoting social mobilisation among belligerent peoples. Finally, such wars need not be purely de- fensive: 'it must not be ignored,' wrote List, 'that the rounding up of 42 Quoted in Carlton Hayes, The Evolution of Modern Nationalism (New York 1931), p. 35. 43 Ideen zur Philosophie der Geschichte der Menschheit (1784). See Hayes, op. cit p. 29, and Elie Kedourie, Nationalism (London 160), p. 55.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 40 WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 the national territory must be reckoned among the most important requirements of nations, that striving to attain it is legitimate, that in some cases it is indeed a legitimate cause of war.'44 Until they were part of a nation, then, how could men be free? How could they, in Rousseau's phrase, 'each, uniting with all, never- theless obey only themselves and remain as free as before'?45 The path to freedom, argued the nationalists, could lie only through creation, or rather the liberation, of the nations to which men s