rs later most of them did fight, it was not from the motives of atavistic patriotism which that phrase conjures up, but in the belief, justified or unjustified, that they were defending the basic principles of international law that bound societies together.48 But no sooner was this national consensus reached on the prin- ciple of collective security-a principle to which the Natinal Go- vernment committed itself in the election of 1935-than it was tested; and no sooner was it tested than it failed. And it failed, as its supporters quite rightly discerned, because the government, in spite of their public declarations, remained committed to the traditional way of conducting international affairs. Now that the documents are available and we can see the grounds on which they reached their decisions, it is hard to see how they could have done anything else. On the face of it, the Abyssinian crisis presented not only a clear case but an easy one. One member of the League, Italy, had com- mitted a clear act of aggressive war against another, Abyssinia, with barely an attempt at self-justification, let alone recourse to arbitration procedures. There was none of the ambiguity which attended the Manchurian crisis of 1931. Moreover the aggressor was highly vul- nerable to international sanctions, in particular to economic blocka- de and to naval action. His lines of communication could be severed by the Royal Navy whenever it wished. If he reacted by a declaration of war his naval forces could be quickly crushed. The imposition of sanctions was not only virtually mandatory under the Covenant: it appeared a perfectly practicable and effective course of action-to everybody, that is, outside Whitehall. From Whitehall the view was different. Sir Maurice Hankey, the immensely influential Secretary of the Cabinet and of the Committee 48 See R.B. McCallum, Public Opinion and the Last Peace (Oxford University Press 1944), pp. 177-9. 8I of Imperial Defence, records an interesting discu