... thwarted in the free de- velopment of their capacities ... always breeds an imagination of there being some competition of interest between states. The privileged class involuntar- ily believes and spreads the belief that the interest of the state lies in some extension without, not in an improvement of organisation within. A suffer- ing class attracts sympathy from without and invites interference with the state that contains it ... The source of war between states lies in their incomplete fulfilment of their function; in the fact that there is some defect in the maintenance or reconciliation of rights among their subjects. [My italics]15 But the right of small nations to struggle for independence, and the problem of weighing the justice of their cause against the re- quirements of world peace, was to prove a continual source of trouble to liberal thinkers. There were of course those who discounted small nations altogether in the interests of social efficiency and the ad- vance of civilisation-an attitude common in the Fabian movement. 'The State which obstructs international civilisation will have to go,' observed Mr George Bernard Shaw, 'be it big or little. That which advances it should be defended by all the Western powers.'16 But this 14 Hobson, Cobden, p. 408. 15 T.H. Green, Principles of Political Obligation (London, reprinted 1922), pp. 170-2. 16 Quoted in K.E. Miller, Socialism and Foreign Policy (The Hague 1967), p. 24.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 50 THE COMING OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR 1870-1914 51 Chi 10 F was a minority view. The rights of small nations and of oppressed nationalities had become, by the beginning of the twentieth century a matter, of urgent concern to the intellectuals of the Liberal Party. 'A great part of the inspiration of Liberalism,' wrote one of them, L.T. Hobhouse, in 1904, ' ... has been drawn from struggles of the nations against Napoleon, of the Eastern Christians against Turkey, of the Poles against Russia, of the Italia