t to be self-injurious it must respect the enemy's property, in which case it becomes economically futile.'48 What was needed was to convince everyone of this-not so much to appeal to public opinion as to educate it. Popular ideas were still dominated by archaic and outmoded concepts inherited from a former era, and 'a change in the political climate of Europe can only come about as the result of a change of thought.'49 Brailsford, whose equally influential War of Steel and Gold appeared in the summer of 1914, agreed that public opinion must be educated: 'There must be a more educative propaganda, a more conscious effort 45 Brailsford, War of Steel & Gold, p. 161. 46 Norman, Angell, The Great Illusion (London 1913), p. vi. The first edition appeared in 1909. 47 Ibid. p. 309. 48 Ibid. p. viii. 49 Ibid. p. 327. to fix principles, before any democracy can be trusted to stand firm in moments of national crisis.'50 And he agreed with Angell, that although there were powerful groups in European society drawing huge profits from armaments and the bloodless struggle for a bal- ance of power, 'Few modern Europeans want a war, and of those, fewer still have the sinister strength to declare it when the moment of decision arrives.'51 Like Bentham before him, Brailsford believed that if commercial rivalries could be settled, no further cause for war remained. 'In Europe the epoch of conquest is over,' he wrote, 'and save in the Balkans and perhaps on the fringes of the Austrian and Russian Empire, it is as certain as anything in politics that the fron- tiers of our national states are finally drawn. My own belief is that there will be no more wars among the six Great Powers.'52 This unfortunately-timed prophecy might have been taken as evidence of British ignorance and insularity if Continental social- ists had not shown themselves equally optimistic. In June 1914 the Second International declared that the international situation was characterised by general détente; and while a