more than an agreeable and far from uncomfortable exten- sion of their extraordinary life style.23 It could be argued that the ruling classes of Europe had, since the Peace of Westphalia, been almost too successful in reducing the chaotic warfare of the early seventeenth century to rational order. From one point of view, the elaborate diplomatic protocol which had developed since the time of Louis XIV, the calculations of statecraft based on concepts of the balance of power, the wars conducted by increasingly professional- ised armies who, when they were not fighting, maintained courteous intercourse with one another-all this might be seen, by those with recollections of what had gone before, as a triumph of reason, civili- sation and order. But it could also be seen, by those who took no part in it, as a gruesome and unnecessary game with no purpose except to maintain the power, the prestige and the emoluments of the players. The philosophes did not rejoice that war had become so comparatively civilised an affair; they objected that anything so barbaric should have survived at all. The second reason was that it was becoming increasingly clear that in the Europe of the eighteenth century, especially for France, war did not pay. Under Louis XIV Colbert had been able to argue con- vincingly that war, wealth and state power were almost synonymous. 23 E. G. Leonard, L'armée et ses problémes au XVIII siécle (Paris 1958).  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 16 THE GROWTH OF THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 1500-1792 English economists were to continue to argue to the same effect well into the eighteenth century while the Royal Navy smashed open the Spanish monopolies in the Caribbean and squeezed the French out of India and the West Indies. But Colbert's policy had antagonised Europe and resulted in twenty-five years of war, between 1689 and 1713, which had left France destitute. No wonder the French economists changed their tune. Even before Adam Smith and the Physiocrats published th