ish were co-operating amicably in the Ottoman Empire. The Powers of Europe, by their prompt and successful co-operation over the Balkan crisis of 1912, had revealed both a common will and a capacity to keep the peace-to act in the Gladstonian role as the 42 Quoted in Miller, Socialism & Foreign Policy, p. 23. 43 Joll, op. cit., p. 153. 44 Ibid. p. 176.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 60 THE COMING OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR 1870-1914 61 Chi 10 F guardians of international public law. And behind all this could be seen the international interests of finance capital, of the great bank- ing houses and the industrial combines, whose fear of war was faith- fully reflected in the behaviour of the international stock markets whenever a crisis occurred. Might not Cobden have been right after all? Was not the creation of a closely-knit international network of common financial and commercial interests the best possible guar- antee of peace? Norman Angell, who has been described with some reason as 'the ablest pamphleteer who has used the English language since Thomas Paine',45 argued that it was. His book The Great Illusion did not main- tain that war was impossible-only that it was useless; and that 'on a general realisation of this truth depends the solution of the problem of armaments and warfare.'46 The capitalist, wrote Angell, 'has no country, and he knows ... that arms and conquests and juggling with frontiers serve no ends of his and may very well defeat them.'47 He believed that it was no longer for one nation to seize by force the wealth and trade another. 'If credit and commercial contract are to be tampered with in an attempt at confiscation,' he argued, 'the credit- dependent wealth is undermined, and its collapse involves that of the conqueror; so that if conquest is not to be self-injurious it must respect the enemy's property, in which case it becomes economically futile.'48 What was needed was to convince everyone of this-not so much to appeal to public opinion a