ermans must be forced to be free and compulsorily educated in how to be so. Democracy only made for peace when all states were equally democratic, and those which were democratic had to remould in their own image, forcibly if necessary, those which were not. There was nothing very new about this: the enthusiasts of the French Revolution, finding the peoples of Europe reluctant to accept the liberties brought to them on the points of French bayonets, had felt much the same. Opposing elites had to be eliminated; the like- minded and reliable had to be put in positions of responsibility and supported; the religious and educational system had to be controlled and if need be changed. In Veblen's own country there was less emphasis on the re-edu- cation of the German people, a long-term task which the United States was prepared to leave to its Allies. There the stress was laid rather on their punishment, and on the reduction or elimination of the power of the German State, whether by partition of pasto- 31 Ibid. pp. 94, 118, 154.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 98 RVARU COLLEGE LIBRASV THE CHALLENGE OF FASCISM 1935-1945 ralisation. The approach was moralistic and legalistic: Germany had committed outrages against international law and morality and must suffer the consequences. Roosevelt spoke at Tehran about the need 'to drive home to the German people the fact that they had lost the war and had been engaged in lawless conspiracy against the decen- cies of civilisation.'32 The principal conspirators had to be arraigned, indicted, and subjected to due process of law. The Morgenthau Plan for the pastoralisation of Germany commanded little support, for practical rather than for humanitarian reasons; but there was much sympathy in Washington and elsewhere for the view expressed by the Secretary of State, Cordell Hull,33 that Germany should be kept under military control, if need be for fifty years, until she experienced an absolute change of heart; and that 'the standard of l