foul idol, fouler than any heathen tribe ever worshipped, has at last been thrown down ... it is not possible for the eye of humanity to scan the scroll upon which are recorded the sufferings which the balance of power has entitled upon this country.' In describing his speech in his biography of Bright, G.M. Trevelyan was to comment, 'The idol, having thus fallen in 1864, remained prostrate as Dagon during the Continental wars of 1866 and 1870, enabling England to wax into prosperity 26 Hobson, op. cit. p. 35. 27 Richard Cobden, Speeches on Questions of Public Policy (London 1870), vol. I, p. 79. 28 Hobson, op. cit. p.34. 29 G. M. Trevelyan, John Bright (London 1913), p. 274. 35 and peace ... Whether or not in our own day the idol has been re- furbished is a point of moment to us all.'30 It was indeed. Trevelyan wrote on the eve of the First World War, at a moment when a Lib- eral Government was being forced by events into acknowledging the European balance of power, not as an idol to be worshipped, but as a system from which it could not escape. For the foul idol of the balance of power, Cobden and Bright sub- stituted the one true God, non-intervention in Continental affairs, particularly in the domestic concerns of other countries. Cobden saw non-intervention, together with disarmament, arbitration and free trade, as an essential plank of the peace platform.'31 He had always, he told Bright in 1846, 'had an instinctive monomania against this system of foreign interference, protocolling, diplomatising, etc.' he had frequently noted, 'how much unnecessary solicitude and alarm England devoted to the affairs of foreign countries: with how lit- tle knowledge we enter upon the task of regulating the concerns of other people; and how much better we might employ our energies at home.'32 He watched in particular the agitation on behalf of Italian independence, which commanded so much Liberal support, with a thoroughly jaundiced eye. "The truth is,' he wrote in 1856, 'it m