f the sixteenth century was largely a matter of competitive display of virtú in its most debased and ludicrous form. Beyond these surface manifestations, with all their terrible con- sequences, Erasmus did not enquire. With all his genius he was not a profound political analyst, nor did he ever have to exercise the responsibilities of power. Rather he was the first in that long line of humanitarian thinkers for whom it was enough to chronicle the horrors of war in order to condemn it; men who may command one's instinctive agreement, but provide little constructive advice as to how to deal with the phenomenon which they find so abhorrent to nature and reason. Very different was the approach of Erasmus' friend, Thomas More; a man who had exercised political responsibility and, perhaps in consequence, saw the problem in all its complexity. More agreed with Erasmus that there was nothing in the least glorious about war. He tells us that the inhabitants of his ideal state, Utopia, 'hate and detest war as a thing manifestly brutal ... Against the usage of almost all other nations they consider nothing so inglo- 8 Ibid. p. 131-2. 9 rious as the glory won in war." The Utopians went to war cautiously and reluctantly; but go to war they did, and for a wide variety of reasons. Most of these derived from concepts of jus ad bellum, widely current in the later Middle Ages; war to protect ones own territory or that of friends against invasion; 'to free some wretched people from tyrannous oppression and servitude'; 'to help friends, not only in defence, but in avenging injuries'. To these justifications, most of which one would have found in any medieval legal text, the Utopians added a startlingly new and relevant one: 'They account it a very just war if a people possess land that they leave idle and uncultivated and refuse the use and occupancy of it to others who according to the law of nature ought to be supported from it.'10 Thus, while perpetuating the medieval concept of the