eligion. They may in general, as Tocqueville rightly discerned, be uninterested in foreign affairs, hostile to alliances and sceptical about such abstract concepts as the balance of power. On the other hand their ignorance of foreign politics makes them suspi- cious and xenophobe, prone to paranoia, and passionately vindictive in proportion to the shattering of their peaceful ideals. Moreover, the liberal theory took no account of totalitarianism; the extent to which an entire society can be held captive by ideologues who, by manipu- lating all forms of communication, can either inculcate a positively militaristic philosophy as did the Fascists or, in a hermetically sealed society such as the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China, teach successive generations to believe as a matter of faith in the unremitting hostility of the outside world. The doctrine that peoples if left to themselves are naturally peaceable, like its converse that they are naturally belligerent, begs far more questions than it answers. Secondly, there was the associated belief which came into prominence in the nineteenth century: that wars resulted not from aristocratic habit but from the vested interests and distorted percep- tions of a governing class and the capitalist interests- particularly those of armaments manufacturers-which it represented. Certainly armaments races exacerbate international tensions, but they are as much the consequences of those tensions as the cause. The relation- ship is at best symbiotic. As for the clash of capitalist interests, few historians would today see this as a major factor in the origins of either world war. In particular, the part played by imperial rivalries in both was minimal. In both, indeed, the British found more hostility to their imperial interests among their allies than they did among their enemies. Thirdly, liberals laid the blame for war on the diplomats and their manipulation of the balance of power. Again, clumsy diplo- macy and ru