s subtle manoeuvres whereby world communism was undermining and sub- verting the Free World. By the 1960s many liberals in the United States were growing uneasy about the situation. The vast military establishment with its industrial ramifications and its horrific weapons-systems, the dubious allies shored up by arms and dollars; the blind hostility to two vast states containing between them half the population of the world-was all this really necessary to defend the democratic way of life? The traditional pacifist and isolationist elements in American  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE II4 THE CHALLENGE OF COMMUNISM 1945-1975 society protested with increasing vehemence. The traditional inter- nationalists agitated for disarmament and a relaxation of interna- tional tensions. The traditional radicals denounced the new 'military- industrial complex'. A new generation defiantly took the leaders of the liberation movements-Castro, Che Guevera-as their heroes and saw in the 'freedom fighters' a life-style which they attempted to recreate at home. The war in Vietnam, by forcing the American government to back its rhetoric by action, brought matters to a head. It revealed what a hideous gap separated rhetoric from reality. Whatever was being defended in South Vietnam, it was not democracy as Ameri- cans understood it. Whatever the potential evils the war was being fought to avert, the actual evils it was inflicting on the Vietnamese people themselves were starkly depicted on every television screen. Whatever the ideology of the Vietnamese insurgents, they were ob- viously fighting with dedicated skill and heroism. Whatever support they might be getting from Peking or Moscow, the North Vietnam- ese and the Vietcong were clearly no passive tools of 'international communism'. And the appalling suspicion began to grow among American liberals that the United States, the very embodiment of democratic and peaceful values, might, as it approached the end of its second century, be wa