té, which, in contrast to their own more sedate and traditional organisation, regarded the satisfaction of revolution- ary and nationalist aspirations as the essential pre-requisite for the 49 e.g. Kossuth: 'Should the Czar once more threaten the oppressed humanity, violate the sovereign rights of nations and their independence ... humanity expects that Britannia will shake her mighty trident and shout a mighty STOP!' A.J.P Taylor, op. cit. p. 599. 50 Hobson, op. cit. p. 33. 51 L.B. Namier, '1848: The Revolution of the Intellectuals' in Proceeding of the British Academy, XXX (London 1944). 52 Hobson, op. cit. p. 177. 53 Beales, op. cit. p. 111.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE Chi 10 F 42 establishment of a lasting peace. At the first meeting Garibaldi was the guest of honour, and the League laid down, as 'the bases of a permanent peace', the need everywhere to substitute democracy for monarchy, to separate Church from State, and to proceed to the creation, on republican lines, of a United States of Europe;54 and which recognised that these objectives might have to be achieved by war. Only then would Mazzini's vision be realised, of a Universal Republic of free nations, each adding a distinctive voice to the uni- versal harmony, working out their destinies in peaceful co-operation. The objective of the liberal visionaries remained the same-perpetual and universal peace; but there seemed to be, on the continent of Eu- rope at least, a growing belief that this could be brought about only through further just and necessary wars. 3 THE COMING OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR 1870-1914 The middle decades of the nineteenth century saw the return of large- scale warfare to Europe after forty years of peace. In 1859 France defeated Austria and liberated Italy. In 1864 Prussia and Austria defeated Denmark and 'liberated' Schleswig-Holstein. In 1866 Prus- sia defeated Austria and created the North German Confederation. And in 1870-1 Prussia and her allies defeated France and established