s struggle was at best to show oneself to be blind to its implications, at worst to conspire with the enemy. And stand aside from the struggle was of course exactly what the British Government tried to do. In terms of ideology it had little sympathy with the Left. In terms of national policy and planning it had no wish to get involved in yet another conflict in the wrong place at the wrong time, even if not now the wrong enemy. The Chiefs of Staff may not have been concerned with fighting Fascism, but they were very much concerned with the problem of fighting Germany, and in view of the appalling disparity of air power they felt in no condition to do so yet. The Cabinet itself was profoundly reluctant to fight anyone; and by 1937, when it was clear that they faced not some 17 Kinglsey Martin, Editor, p. 219. 91 swift, efficient police-action against a minor power, but a major war in which British cities would be heavily at risk, they were probably not unrepresentative of the bulk of British public opinion. And with regard to Germany, had not the British public been educated by the radicals themselves to recognise the justice of her claims to rehabilitation, to Gleichberechtigung? We have seen how the men who were the most hostile to the old balance of power system, those who were the most energetic in promoting the cause of col- lective security, tended quite naturally to be those most concerned to right the wrongs done to Germany. Clifford Allen, the heroic conscientious objector of the Great War, a truly saintly figure in the Labour Party, had as early as May 1933 urged his colleagues not to be misled by Nazi atrocities:18 So profound is our horror at the almost unbelievable brutalities which are now taking place in Germany that we are in danger of letting our indigna- tion on that subject lead us to false and even dangerous thinking on other aspects of the German problem. Germany is but little interested either in rearming or disarming: her one concern is to secu