in little the hatreds and confusions of Europe.'12 Ironically, therefore, as Allied war aims hardened in fa- vour of the destruction of the German and Austrian political systems in the name of democracy and of national self-determination, the voice of the liberal opposition was heard defending the preservation of the power of Germany and the structure of the Austrian Empire in order to maintain a viable state-system in Europe; something not far removed indeed from a balance of power. By the end of the war, as Mr A.J.P. Taylor has sardonically pointed out, the UDC and the radicals were urging something very much like a restoration of the status quo of 1914.13 But by 1917-18 matters were out of the hands of the British lib- eral dissenters; out of the hands, almost, of the British government. The United States had entered the war on the side of the Allies, virtu- ally guaranteeing victory on her own terms; terms which were, to all appearances, exactly those for which liberals had been fighting ever since Thomas Paine had hailed the new Republic as the embodiment of all those virtues which the old world so conspicuously lacked. Before 1914 almost the only citizens of the United States who devoted any sustained thinking to the problems of international rela- tions had been those members of peace societies and international congresses who had been in such constant and fruitful contact with their contacts in Europe, playing an increasingly dominant part in these activities as their wealth and numbers increased. Andrew 12 H.N. Brailsford, A League of Nations (London 1917), pp. 4, 101. 13 Taylor, The Trouble Makers, p. 149.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 70 ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 Carnegie had set up his Endowment for International Peace in 1910 with a fund of ten million dollars, to study the cause of war, the development of international law, and the problem of influencing opinion against war; and that sturdy heart has been pumping blood into the veins of peace o