er- theless obey only themselves and remain as free as before'?45 The path to freedom, argued the nationalists, could lie only through creation, or rather the liberation, of the nations to which men should be brought to realise (if they did not already) that by lan- guage and heritage they belonged. So preached Giuseppe Mazzini, who was only the most ardent and literate of the young evangelists of the creed which had spread from France to Italy, to Poland, to the Balkans, and would ultimately circle the world. The statues which he drew up for Young Italy in 1831 (itself the prototype of a young Germany, a young Poland and ultimately a young Europe) were con- sciously or unconsciously to be the model for revolutionary national- ist organisations from that day to this. Mazzini preached wars of national liberation. Italy was to be liberated by education and insur- rection. 'Education must ever be directed to teach by example, word and pen the necessity of insurrection ... Insurrection-by means of guerrilla bands-is the true method of warfare for all nations desir- ous of emancipating themselves from a foreign yoke ... It forms the military education of the people and consecrates every foot of the na- tive soil by memory of some warlike deed.'46War, insisted Mazzini, was inevitable: 'desperate and determined war that knows no truce, save in victory or the grave.'47 Twenty years later he was still calling for War, in the noble intention of restoring Truth and Justice, and arresting Tyranny in her inhumane career, of rendering the Nations free and happy and causing God to smile upon them benignantly'; and in particular, calling on the British to take part. 48 44 Silberner, op. cit. pp.136 ff. 45 Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Du Contrat Social, Book 1, Chapter 6. 46 Mazzini, Life and Writings, vol. I, pp. 106 ff. 47 Ibid. p. 121. 48 Quoted in Kenneth N. Waltz, Man, the State and War (New York 1959), p. 110. 41 These appeals, like those of the Greeks in 1821, the Poles in 1831 and