o Taylor, The Troublemakers, pp.176-7.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 74 U ARMS AND THE COVENANT 1914-1935 It was difficult indeed to fit French policy towards Germany into any conventional sterotype. The popular support so clearly enjoyed by M. Poincaré in his punitive treatment of the defeated Germans could hardly be explained in terms of capitalism, imperialism, or the machinations of a traditional ruling class. Brailsford concluded that 'in spite of Republican forms, a nation of small peasant-owners and small investors never will be Liberal in the British sense of the word.'29 That was the trouble: so very few people, outside Britain. Scandinavia and United States, were liberal 'in the British sense of the word'. Could nothing be rescued from the wreck of the Versailles settle- ment? Certainly: there was the League of Nations, whose Covenant embodied all the aspirations of lovers of peace for the past two hund- red years. There were those, Charles Trevelyan among them, who regarded the League as being no more than an alliance of capitalist, imperialist powers to enforce an unjust peace, and who despaired, as E.D. Morel had despaired, of seeing good fruit from so rotten a tree; but most agreed that it was the best that could be expected under the circumstances. 'Democratic control of the Society of Nations,' J.A. Hobson had written during the war, 'as of the several nations, is the only full security for peace and progress, but that is no ground for refusal to support the best beginnings of that international society which under the existing cisrcumstances are attainable.'30 The general hope of liberal thinkers was that the League would at least provide a basis on which to build a new world order. 'Belief in the League of Nations as a substitute for swollen armaments and rival alliances,' said Ramsay Muir, 'should henceforth be the pivot of British foreign policy.' Gilbert Murray suggested, in the true spirit of Bentham, that 'wars caused, or made more likely, b