Harriman, American Ambassador in Moscow, explained to President Truman in June 1945, 'that Stalin does not and never will understand our interest in a free Poland as a matter of principle. He is a realist in all his actions and it is hard for him to appreciate our faith in abstract principles.' Others in the United States made less effort to understand the Soviet attitude. Had not Stalin signed the Declaration on Liberated Europe at Yalta, thereby promising to assist the Poles 'to form in- terim governmental authorities broadly representative of all demo- cratic elements in the population and pledged to the earliest possible establishment through free elections of governments responsive to the will of the people'?9 And was he not in breach of this pledge, not only in Poland but in Romania and in every other country in Eastern Europe controlled by the Red Army? And was not the Red Army followed by an apparatus of totalitarian repression which bore a disquieting resemblance to that of the German occupation from which these lands had only just been liberated? Had the war been fought and American blood shed simply to substitute one tyranny for another? American officials like Harriman and his deputy in Moscow, George Kennan, saw the problem in more moderate, more old- fashioned terms-terms not of justice but of power. Soviet power, as Kennan pointed out in his famous cable of February 1946,10 was naturally expanding in the wake of Soviet armed strength; and in view of the deep suspicions which Soviet leaders harboured of the intentions of the bourgeois world, it would continue to expand un- 8 E.L. Gaddes, The United States and the Origins of the Cold War 1941-47 (New York 1972), p. 234. 9 See above, p. 114. 10 Printed as Appendix C of George Kennan, Memoirs 1925-1950 (London & New York 1963). 107 til it received a check. Soviet power must therefore be contained, by firm declarations of interest and, where necessary, by displays of strength; by operating in fact, the tra