lised Europe. But if every chance of obtaining co-operation is exhausted, the work will be undertaken by the single power of England.'  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE viii It was. The campaign was brief and comparatively bloodless. But in order to convert Egypt 'from anarchy and conflict to peace and order', the British found it necessary to remain for another seventy years. Sadly little seems to have changed, either in the aspirations of the liberal conscience, or in their unintended results. November 2007 Michael Howard. INTRODUCTION George Macaulay Trevelyan If one were to play a game of 'free association' with the name of George Macaulay Trevelyan, in whose honour these lectures were originally delivered, one of the first ideas that comes to mind would most certainly be the vague but splendid concept of Liberalism. Trev- elyan was the last of the great Victorian liberal historians-perhaps the last of the great Victorian liberals. For him history really was the tale of freedom broadening down from precedent to precedent. For him the seventeenth century was the era when Englishmen burst the bonds of monarchical tyranny, as the United States was to burst them a hundred years later; and the nineteenth century was the age when the people of Europe, pre-eminently the Italians, came to share the blessings of freedom and nationhood in their turn. After that everything went wrong. 'I do not understand the age we live in', he wrote in a private letter in 1926,'1 'and what I do understand I do not like.' The signposts of the past as he understood it bore little relevance to the deepening confusion of the present. Other liberals, notably his brother Charles, who will figure largely in the following pages, strode boldly forward into the new age under the banner of socialism, seeing in the confusion of their times only new challenges and new opportunities for the old ideals. George Macaulay Trev- 1 Transcribed by the Right Hon. The Lord Trevelyan K.G. in his unpublished memoi