conflict in which we are now engaged ... [and] being in ... we must win.' Two days later it expressed the hope that 'barbarism ... is fighting its last battle.' At the end of September it printed an edito- rial by the great liberal journalist A.G. Gardiner to the effect that Britain now stood for 'the spirit of light against the spirit of dark- ness.'2 About the same time H.G. Wells coined the phrase 'the war to end war'. By November, when the German armies were exerting the last reserves of their strength to break through the British lines in the First Battle of Ypres, most liberals would probably have endorsed G.M. Trevelyan's view that 'this war is life or death'.3 1 Grey of Falloden, Twenty-Five Years (London 1925), vol. II, p. 306. 2 All quotations from L.W. Martin, Peace Without Victory (Yale University Press 1958), pp. 46-50. 3 See above, p. 11. Most, but not all. Charles Trevelyan, as we have seen, was among 65 those who resigned from the government rather than condone Brit- ish participation in the war. Ramsay MacDonald maintained the opposition to which he had given solitary voice in the Commons. Together with the two prolific publicists Norman Angell and E.D. Morel, with MacDonald's colleague in the Labour Party, Philip Snowden, and one other upper-class recruit, the former diplomat Arthur Ponsonby, these men met within a few days of the outbreak of war to set up the Union for Democratic Control. It was not their object to oppose the war: a German victory was not likely to advance the cause they had at heart. It was to preserve clarity of thought about a foreign policy while the war was being fought, and to work towards the emergence after the war of an international system more in accordance with their ideals; to ensure, in fact, that this would really be a war to end wars. The views of the Union for Democratic Control were set out in a pamphlet by its most active member, E.D. Morel, The Morrow of the War. This expounded the orthodox liberal doctrine abo