e seen, the transnational flows of commerce, communications and capital created an increasingly integrated European society. But it was a society in which, in spite of the Peace Movement, the warrior ethic survived and flourished. The peaceful internationalism of Cobden gave way to the protection- ism of Joseph Chamberlain and the imperialism of Alfred Milner. In England public schools were established to instil into the children of the middle classes the virtues of discipline, service and patriot- ism.21 In Germany, the bourgeoisie of the National Liberal Party loyally supported the 'forward' policies of the Imperial Government and considered it the highest conceivable privilege to hold a reserve 21 See e.g. Geoffrey Best, 'Militarism and the Victorian Public School' in Brian Simon and Ian Bradley, eds., The Victorian Public School (London 1975) and Rupert Wilkinson, The Prefects (1964).  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 52 THE COMING OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR 1870-1914 53 Chi 10 commission in the Imperial Army. In France, Jacobin middle-class traditions of radical militarism provided a far more fruitful soil than did any relics of pre-revolutionary aristocratic martial zest for the nationalist bellicosity to which such figures as Paul Déroulède and general Boulanger gave occasional outlet, but whose full depth was to be revealed only by the Dreyfus Affair. At the dawn of the twentieth century Europe was a very bellicose, very militarist society, and the inflated spirit of patriotism and xenophobia which fuelled an alarm- ingly intensive arms race could not be laid at the door of the old aristocracy. It was no less virulent among those 'industrious' classes which Saint-Simon and his successors had expected to propagate the spirit of peace. Why this should have been so remains a historical problem to which there is probably no single, simple solution. We are only just beginning to acquire the intellectual tools to explore and explain the creation of tensions and the move