rimean War. During the Boer war his successors had fared no better. Objectors to the war were vilified in the popular press, had their meetings broken up, were subjected to physical attack. After that experience L.T. Hobhouse confessed that he could no longer believe that, since wars resulted from selfish class interest, democracies would necessarily be peace-loving: 'One nation may act as selfishly, callously and cruelly in relation to another as one class in relation to another,' he wrote. 'In the doctrine that the people as a whole can have no sinister interests, foreign and colonial relations are left out of account.'40 In Germany, Max Weber came to the same conclusion: 'One cannot see why strong state socialist communities should disdain to squeeze tribute out of the weaker communities for their own partners where they could do so,' he wrote, 'just as hap- pened everywhere in early history.' As to the 'pacific interests' of the masses, he was deeply sceptical. They were, in his view, more easily swayed by emotional influences than were their rulers; they had in fact, in spite of what the Socialists said, less to lose from war than had the possessing classes. War could be seen as opening for them tantalising opportunities of social change and advancement.41 And George Bernard Shaw expressed his idiosyncratic view of the situa- tion: 'All classes, in proportion to their lack of travel and familiarity with foreign literature, are bellicose, prejudiced against foreigners, 39 Brailsford, op. cit. p. 185. 40 L.T. Hobhouse, Democracy and Reaction (London 1904), p. 141. 41 H. Gerth and C. Wright Mills, ed., From Max Weber, Essays in Sociology (London 1947), pp. 169, 171. fond of fighting as a cruel sport-in short, dog-like in their notions of foreign policy.'42 The outbreak of the First World War was to confirm all these fears. The peacemaking leaders of the International found themselves isolated and unpopular in their own countries. Victor Adler, the Aus- trian socia