ay that what the Government is doing is necessary for the defence of the country is to beg the whole question. I do not believe that the entry into an arms race 7 Naylor, Labour's International Policy, p. 132. 8 Ibid. pp. 149-53. 87 9 C.R. Attlee, The Labour Party in Perspective (London 1937), p. 190. 11 Naylor, op. cit. p. 160. would give security. On the contrary I think it is leading us straight to the disaster of another World War. So war and national defence, the activities for which the British Government was now reluctantly planning, were regarded by the Labour Party as being totally different from the course it wanted to pursue: 'the enforcement of collective security' and 'resistance to Fas- cism'. The liberal conscience in the mid-thirties was equally revolted by war and by Fascism, and so found it easy to believe that the two were one and the same: that opposition to the one involved opposing the other. In July the International Meeting of the Trades Union Congress in London issued a ringing declaration:10 Considering ... that Fascism is eager to destroy human liberties and the rights of workers all over the world, to crush the workers' organisations and democracies, the International Trades Union Meeting reiterates that Fas- cism must be combated in every country, with all possible means ... Every- thing must be done to hurl back the forces of Fascism and to stem the tide of war. [my italics]. 'Against Fascism and War' became a slogan behind which the entire forces of the Left could rally, and to vote against rearmament could be depicted as a vote against Fascism. Support for the Govern- ment's rearmament policy, Attlee told the Labour Party Conference in October 1936, 'will lead you to demand after demand being made on your liberties. It will, in effect, lead to a demand that you shall accept Fascism practically, in order to conquer Fascism.'11 Even those who could not seriously identify the British govern- ment as Fascist (and there were many of the Le