ular. John Stuart Mill in 1874 expressed his support for armed intervention to redress the balance when a people were fighting for liberty against even a native tyranny, if that tyranny was being helped by foreign arms.4 An even weightier condemna- tion came from Gladstone. The view expressed by Cobden and his colleagues, he declared in his Midlothian campaign, 'is not only a re- spectable, it is even a noble error ... but however deplorable wars may be, they are among the necessities of our condition; and there are times when justice, when faith, when the failure of mankind, require 3 Dawson, Richard Cobden & Foreign Policy, p. 106. 4 J.S. Mill, 'A Few Words on Non-Intervention', Dissertations and Discussions (1874) III, p. 256.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 46 THE COMING OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR 1870-1914 47 Chi 10 F a man not to shrink from the responsibility of undertaking them.'s The British people, Gladstone maintained, had moral obligations to the subject races of Eastern Europe arising out of the brotherhood of man. On these grounds, not only did he denounce in 1876 the Turk- ish record in Bulgaria as the 'basest and blackest outrage upon record within the present century, if not within the memory of man,' but he demanded that the British Government should 'apply all its vigour to concur with the other States of Europe in obtaining the extinction of the Turkish executive power in Bulgaria.'6 The contrast between Gladstone's attitude as a member of the government in 1854, which went to war to defend the integrity of the Ottoman Empire, and that twenty years later, when, as leader of the opposition, he mounted the Midlothian campaign against the Conservative administration for attempting precisely the same thing, is not to be explained by simple political opportunism. A man of masterful intellect, Gladstone recognised as fully as did his Con- servative opponents the need for the maintenance of a balance of political power, or as he himself put it, 'the necessi