aracter of the human race.'10 The same ideas were increasingly popular beyond the Channel. There the French economist Jean-Baptiste Say was also emphasising the counter-productiveness of war; which came about only because bad ministers wished to make themselves indispensable, because gov- ernments sought to silence domestic discontent, because the military sought prestige and promotion and because of the false doctrines of mercantilism. 'War costs more than its expense,' he pointed out, 'it costs what it prevents from being earned.'11 But like John Stuart Mill, Say believed war to be obsolescent: Just because war has become much more costly now than it was formerly, it is impossible for governments to wage it without the consent of the public openly expressed or tacitly understood. This consent will be obtained with more and more difficulty as the masses among the nations gain a better understanding of their true interests. Say also believed, as had Crucé two hundred years earlier, that as the producing classes, 'les industrieux', became increasingly influential in society, so the importance of the predatory military classes would decline. Governments formed of such men would pursue policies in- 9 John McCulloch, A Discourse on the ... Importance of Political Economy (1824), pp. 85-86. 10 J. S. Mill, Principles of Political Economy (London 1848), p. 582. See comments on all these authors in Edmond Silberner, The Problem of War in 19th Century Economic Thought (Princeton U. P.), pp. 42-66. 11 Silberner, op. cit. p. 72. Say's ideas were set out in his Traite d'economie politique as early as 1803, but were to be fully developed in his Cours complet d'economie politique pratique (1829).  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 30 WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 spired solely by principles of international solidarity.12 The belief that the producing classes were replacing the despoiling classes and that therefore peace would replace war-a belief soon to be embodied in the wo