of the fire. The Republican leaders made it clear to the Administration that they could support such a move if it were explained in terms that would make sense to the liberal conscience;11 and in consequence President Truman clothed what old-style Euro- pean statesmen would have seen as a disagreeable but necessary local commitment within a traditional system of power-balances, in all the panoply of a call to arms in a Manichean confrontation against the forces of darkness: 11 Dean Acheson, Present at the Creation (New York 1969), p. 219.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 108 HARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY THE CHALLENGE OF COMMUNISM 1945-1975 Our way of life [Truman declared in March 1947] is based upon the will of the majority, and is distinguished by free institutions, representative gov- ernments, free election, guarantees of individual liberty, freedom of speech and religion and freedom from political oppression. The second way of life is based upon the will of a minority forcibly imposed on the majority. It relies upon terror and oppression, a controlled press and radio, fixed elections and the suppression of personal freedoms. [The United States, said Truman, would] not realise our objectives unless we are willing to help free peoples to maintain their institutions and their national integrity against aggressive movements that seek to impose on them totalitarian régimes. [As a result the United States had to] support free peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressures ... The free peoples of the world [my italics] look to us for support in maintaining their freedoms. If we falter in our leadership we may endanger the peace of the world. 12 Such was the Truman doctrine. So now the American people knew where they stood-in the front line of that confrontation between the forces of democracy and the forces of totalitarianism, the forces of freedom and the forces of tyranny, from which they had stood so disastrously aside when it