ive military strength of the dispu- tants, but by the impartial conciliation or decision of those who are not party to the dispute. In such an ordered society of nations ... it is essential that each nation should look for security against aggression, not to the strength of its own arms and allies ... but to the whole society of nations, the collective guarantee and pooled security of all nations.'4 This was the philosophy behind the 'Peace Ballot' of 1934, the view endorsed by both the Labour and Liberal Parties and appar- ently adopted by the National Government in the election of 1935; only to be betrayed a few months later by the Hoare-Laval Pact. The evil old philosophy, that looked to armaments, power-balances 2 See E.H. Carr, The Twenty Year Crisis, p. 34-6. Ibid. p. 203. 3 4 Leonard Woolf, The Intelligent Man's Way to Prevent War (London 1933), p. 12. 85 and secret diplomacy to keep the peace and which had so repeatedly failed, now appeared in spite of all the hopes of the 1920s, in spite of the Covenant of the League and the Kellogg Pact, to be as firmly in the saddle as ever. Thereafter, the brief consensus which had united the Govern- ment and its opponents disappeared. The Abyssinian crisis, as Kings- ley Martin was to write, 'marks the dividing line in the Thirties. After that the one hope that England would stand for a constructive world policy came to an end.'5 On this the perception of the liberals was quite correct. Whereas they were trying to create a new rule of law, the government was indeed attempting to create a balance of power, an alignment of status-quo orientated powers which would, they hoped, hold in check the revisionist claims of Germany and Japan. The first course meant condemning Italy, the second conciliating her. The first course involved at least a risk of war with Italy, though many of its advocates preferred to overlook it; but for the govern- ment, such a conflict would be, as was later to be said (under very comparable circumst