defeated Denmark and 'liberated' Schleswig-Holstein. In 1866 Prus- sia defeated Austria and created the North German Confederation. And in 1870-1 Prussia and her allies defeated France and established the Second German Reich. From 1859 until 1871 the armies of the European powers were poised to fight campaigns which were, when they came, brief, violent and decisive. At the same time, beyond the Atlantic, the American supporters of the Peace Movement experi- enced a gigantic Civil War whose objectives the greater part of them, as of their British colleagues, entirely supported. Yet there was little sense that the Peace Movement had been set back by any of these events, or that there was any need to re-examine the propositions on which it was based. Though it would have been difficult for anyone in the Peace Movement to say so explicitly, these great wars had, if anything, helped their cause. The American Republic was at last united under the leadership of the industrial classes, from whom, on the whole, the leaders of that movement came. Two major peoples of Europe, the Germans and the Italians, had come together in na- tion states, and could now be counted as forces for stability rather than disruption. Certainly there were problems further East, where nationalist aspirations were a growing embarrassment to the rulers of the Russian, the Ottoman and the Habsburg Empires; while few ------ 54 Ibid. p. 120. 43  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 44 THE COMING OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR 1870-1914 Chi 10 liberals were as yet prepared even to think about the vast, dark, slum- bering spaces which lay beyond Europe. But the great nations of Europe and North America could now very plausibly be described as moving onwards and upwards in friendly co-operation towards a stable and permanent peace. On paper the record for the years 1870 to 1914 looked extremely good. Innumerable functional links were established in the fields of trade, travel and communications, which broadened the comm