s and rival alliances,' said Ramsay Muir, 'should henceforth be the pivot of British foreign policy.' Gilbert Murray suggested, in the true spirit of Bentham, that 'wars caused, or made more likely, by the mutual prejudices of nati- ons, by their habit of working always apart and in secrecy, [would be] met by the immense field of international co-operation which the League proposes, and its absolute insistence upon frank interchange of information.'31 29 Miller, op. cit. p. 250. 30 J.A. Hobson, The Fight for Democracy (London 1917), p. 54. 31 Miller, op. cit. p. 251. 75 This became the dominant view. The Labour Party in 192832 called for 'whole-hearted support of the League of Nations as the arbiter of international peace and order, in preference to the basing of peace upon separate pacts, ententes and alliances.' But support for the League as the focus for a new style of foreign policy reached far beyond the Labour and Liberal Parties. The League of Nations Union under its Conservative Chairman Viscount Cecil established branches throughout the country and enjoyed all-party support. With some reason it has been described as 'the most successful organisa- tion of its kind since the Anti-Corn Law League,'33 but unlike that League it expressed a broad consensus of all parties and all classes. It would probably be fair to describe it as representing the mainstream of political opinion in Britain in the early 1930s. It was the chief con- duit through which that general reaction against the whole concept of war, which typified the inter-war years, found expression. One of the many virtues of the League of Nations Movement was that it did not lose itself in pious generalities. The implications of the Covenant were repeatedly spelled out in its literature and its propa- ganda. Much of it derived from Bentham and his contemporaries: compulsory arbitration, disarmament, and the need for all treaties between States to be publicly registered if they were to be binding in inter