m actual war, and I trust railroads, steamboats, cheap postage and our own example in Free Trade will do that, a great impulse will from this time be given to social reforms.'22 Cobden was not, as he was at fre- quent pains to point out, a pacifist. He agreed that some wars might be necessary, even beyond the strict requirement of self-defence.23 As he explained in 1853 there were in the Peace Movement 'those who oppose all war, even in self-defence; those who do not go quite so far, and yet oppose wars on religious grounds in all cases but that of self-defence. And there are those for whom politico-economical and financial considerations are not only the advocates of peace, but also of a diminution of our costly war establishments. Among this latter class I confess I rank myself.'24 The utilitarian arguments against war used by Cobden and his colleague John Bright, their open appeal to the pockets of the middle classes, did not make them universally popular. 'Manchester Peace Goods,' punned Punch sardonically, 'there is but one Manchester and the whole world is its profit.' The Manchester Guardian denounced the 'mischievous notion that the honour and safety of England are less dear to a large and important community than the profit of their industry.'25 Cobden was deliberately provocative: for that sacrosanct image of British greatness, the Royal Navy, he proposed, in his own words, to 'substitute the more homely but enduring maxim Cheap- ness, which will command commerce ... The standing armies and navies-whilst they cannot possibly protect our commerce, while they add by the increase of taxation to the cost of our manufacturers and thus augment the difficulty of achieving the victory of 'cheap- 22 Morley, op. cit. vol. I, p. 411. 23 J.A. Hobson, Richard Cobden: the International Man (London 1918), p. 387. 24 Ibid. p. 94. 25 Donald Read, Cobden and Bright (London 1967), pp. 131, 136.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 34 WAR, PEACE AND NATIONALISM 1789-1870 ness'-ten