ree World-that is, a world governed by the values of liberal democracy-against the incursions of totalitarian tyranny. She ended with the awful suspicion that America herself was now suppressing a people struggling to be free. It was partly a perception of this tragic dilemma that led me to tackle this subject in the first place. The book was reprinted in 1989, on the eve of the end of the Cold War. The Soviet Union had not yet collapsed, but under Ronald Reagan the United States had recovered its self-confidence, rebuilt its military strength, and again proclaimed herself ready to use her power to protect or extend liberty wherever it might be threatened. But among her policy-makers, there now raged a three-cornered debate. There were the 'classical' liberals whose pedigree is traced in the earlier chapters of this work. The descendants of Tom Paine and Jeremy Bentham, they believed that peace could be established by the replacement of the old aristocratic order, with its belief in the Balance of Power, by democratic nations freely co-operating under the banner of the United Nations; a school embodied in the person of President Jimmy Carter. Secondly there were the 'realists', led by Dr Henry Kissinger, who believed, to the contrary, that peace was best preserved by accepting and preserving that very balance between powers, whatever their internal governance, that the liberals consid- ered anathema. Finally there was emerging a school that might be vii called 'muscular liberalism' but oddly adopted the label of 'neo-con- servative', who believed that the United States should not hesitate to unilaterally use her enormous strength to destroy the enemies of the Free World wherever they showed themselves, and need not be too nice about the methods she used or the allies she co-opted-or aban- doned-in the process. It was a policy identified, rightly or wrongly, with the regime of President Ronald Reagan. Certainly the fact that the Soviet Union collapsed on his watch an