enth century those families-Frys, Cadburys, Lloyds, Gurneys, Foxes, Sturges-were becoming increasingly prosperous, influential, and politically active both in Britain and the United States, and a new strain of evangelism was beginning to inspire their activities.15 The Napoleonic Wars, by providing them with the first 12 Ibid. p. 81-82. 13 Ibid. p. 92. 14 Ibid. p. 94. 15 Peter Brock, Pacifism in Europe (Princeton U. P. 1972), p. 339. 31 opportunity on a large scale for that war-relief which was to earn them such well-deserved fame, brought many of them into direct contact with war in Europe at its worse; and they began to regard war as an evil, not from which they should hold themselves aloof, but which it was their duty to extirpate entirely. They began to move boldly into the political arena, organising, lobbying and writing. One of the most vigorous of the new school of Quaker propagan- dists was a young draper from Exeter, Jonathan Dymond. Dymond said nothing that had not been said before him by Tom Paine and others, but he said it with great power, making sharper and more rancorous the note of class war. Wars, he wrote in a pamphlet pub- lished 1823,16 arose from callus indifference to human suffering; from national pride and irritability; from false ideas of glory; from self-interest of statesmen who had 'many purposes of subtle policy which makes wars convenient'; and from the vested interests of 'a countless hosts of commissaries and purveyors and agents and me- chanics [who] commend a war because it fills their pockets.' (In short, a 'military-industrial complex'.) Further, war 'offers to the higher ranks of society a profession which unites gentility with profit, and which without the vulgarity of trade, maintains and enriches them ... It is in this manner that much of the rank, of the influence, and of the wealth of a country becomes interested in the promotion of wars.' Dymond was not prepared to accept the legitimacy even of defensive wars. When nations