he countries of South East Asia to communist control [ran one report in June 1952] as a consequence of overt or covert Chinese Communist aggression would have critical psychological, political and eco- nomic consequences. In the absence of effective and timely counteraction, the loss of any single country would probably lead to relatively swift submis- sion to or alignment with Communism by the remaining countries of this group. Furthermore an alignment with Communism of the rest of South East Asia and India, and in the longer term of the Middle East ... would in all probability follow ... 20 And eighteen months later in January 1954 a further confidential report was even more disturbing: In the conflict in Indo-China, the Communist and non-Communist worlds clearly confront one another on the field of battle: the loss of the struggle in Indo-China, in addition to its impact in South-East Asia and South Asia, would therefore have the most serious repercussions in US and free-world interests in Europe and elsewhere.21 Vietnam in short was depicted as the hole in the dike which held back the floodwaters of Communism from submerging the Free World. Thanks to his own caution and that of his European allies, President Eisenhower was able to resist the advice of his officials, that he should select it as the battleground where the fortunes of democracy were to be put to the test. Ten years later, in 1964, his successor was not to be so restrained. One can see the implications of these perceptions only too clearly. In the first place, the adversary was dehumanised. He ceased to be 19 Quoted in David Halberstam, The Best and the Brightest (New York 1969), p. 330. 20 The Pentagon Papers, Gravel Edition (Boston 1971), vol. I, p. 83. 21 Ibid. p. 434. II3 a party with fears, perceptions, interests and difficulties of his own; one with whom rational discussion and compromise was possible. Any move made by the Soviet Union was interpreted as a gambit in a settled scheme of world c