t possible establishment through free elections of governments responsive to the will of the people. This declaration, together with the establishment of a United Na- tions Organisation, whose members were pledged by its Charter 'to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace and for the suppression of acts of aggression or other breaches of the peace', provided the firmest possible assurance to liberal thinkers in the Western World that the Second World War had been worth while: that it would not result, as all other wars had resulted, in a return to an anarchy of sovereign states, exacerbated by an arms race and tempered only by a balance of power. 35 Wheeler Bennett & Nicholls, op. cit. p. 42. 36 Ibid. p. 537. 37 Ibid. p. 631. 6 THE CHALLENGE OF COMMUNISM 1945-1975 There can have been few people in the Western World (and even fewer in the Soviet Union) who did not believe in 1945 that the war which they had fought and won had been not only necessary but in every sense 'just'. Traditionalists may have seen it as yet another war to restore a balanced system of international politics; the unpolitical masses in Britain and the Soviet Union certainly saw it as a war for sheer survival; but for the liberals, as we have defined them in these pages, it was a war to defend and vindicate all the cultural values for which they had stood since the dawn of the liberal conscience in the eighteenth century; the values of 'democracy' against Fascism, the values of freedom of speech and of worship, of freedom from want and from fear, the values of national self-determination against alien tyranny, the values inherent in the rule of law in the international community, the values of Paine and Bentham and Gladstone and Mazzini all rolled into one. Even that severest of critics, Mr A.J.P. Taylor, concluded his account of it by saying that it was a 'good war'.1 Nowhere was this sense of a successful crusade stronger than in the United Stat