y the Secretary of State, Cordell Hull,33 that Germany should be kept under military control, if need be for fifty years, until she experienced an absolute change of heart; and that 'the standard of living of the German population should be kept below the average of neighbour- ing populations but should be raised gradually in proportion to the rate of change on their part away from Nazism, racial superiority and the like, towards ideas of human rights, individual liberty, freedom and peace.' Retribution and reformation should go hand in hand. Cordell Hull spoke with a voice which Mr Gladstone would surely have approved. Germany had transgressed against the public law of nations, as much by her internal as by her external crimes. That law had been vindicated by a Concert of peace-loving Powers, no longer European only but now world-wide, the United Nations. The Concert should now be established upon a formal and perma- nent basis, and Germany and her associates could be admitted to it only after a long process of purging their offences. And this time there must be no mistake: the new organisation, unlike the League of Nations, should be explicitly and unambiguously a league to enforce peace. As Hull had declared in September 1943: 'It is abundantly clear that a system of organised international co-operation for the maintenance of peace must be based upon the willingness of the co- operating nations to use force, if necessary, to keep the peace.'34 And, as a result of his energetic activities the following month, the Allies 32 In Wheeler Bennett and Nicholls, The Semblance of Peace, p. 167. 33 Cordell Hull, Memoirs (London 1948), vol. II, p. 1617. 34 Ibid. p. 1254. 99 signed in Moscow a Declaration, by which they agreed to establish a general international organisation, based on the sovereign equality of all nations; for the maintenance of peace and security; which would include provision for military forces to be available to meet a threat to the peace. So as the war