ian Bell, ed. We Did Not Fight, quoted in Hynes, op. cit. p. 195.  WAR AND THE LIBERAL CONSCIENCE 90 HARVARD COLLEGE (IBR &SV THE CHALLENGE OF FASCISM 1935-1945 The most active and ardent war resisters-at least among my own genera- tion and those of military age-are more likely to take the line of revolution- ary action than conscientious objection ... Those of us who care about the human race and what happens to it have come to believe that only effective action counts ... I believe that the war resistance movements of my genera- tion will in the end succeed in putting down war-by force if necessary. So these young men went to Spain as their elders had gone to Flanders two decades earlier: to die in a war against war. For the techniques and activities of the traditional Peace Move- ment these radicals had no sympathy whatever. Kingsley Martin attended a Rassemblement universelle pour la Paix in Brussels in Sep- tember 1937 and wrote of it afterwards:17 I quite lost my temper at this preposterous conference. I looked at Lord Cecil's superb profile in the chair, and at Philip Noel Baker at his side, drafting, translating, dauntless and always optimistic; I heard professional League of Nations speakers talking about the value of congresses helping us 'to appreciate each other's difficulties and points of view' and courageously pretending that there was still such a thing as collective security ... The Congress even invented a Peace Day, a Peace Fair, and a Peace Party . There was a Peace Oath too, but the Oath, like everything else, carefully avoided the only question that mattered-whether pacifists would or would not fight against aggressions ... For the radicals therefore, 'peace' became a dirty word, and 'ap- peasement' of course, a dirtier one. To stand aside from this struggle was at best to show oneself to be blind to its implications, at worst to conspire with the enemy. And stand aside from the struggle was of course exactly what the British Government tried t