dif- ferent nations.'18 Montesquieu himself accepted this as inevitable and drew much the same conclusions as had Thomas More: 'The law of nations is naturally founded on this principle, that different nations ought in time of peace to do one another all the good they can, and in time of war as little injury as possible without prejudicing their real interests.' The right of war was derived from necessity and strict justice, and 'If those who direct the conscience or Councils of princes do not abide by this maxim, the consequence is dreadful: when they proceed on arbitrary principles of glory, convenience and utility, tor- rents of blood overspread the earth.'19 Rousseau, however, in his fragment, L'Etat de Guerre,20 pointed to a different conclusion. He agreed with Montesquieu that man was by nature peace-loving and timid, and that only habit and experience made it possible for him to fight at all: 'It is only after he is a citizen that he becomes a soldier.' War, Rousseau observed, was not a mat- ter of impulsive hostility, but 'a permanent state which presupposed constant relations'. It was therefore possible only between public per- sons; that is, 'the moral being whom one calls 'the sovereign', which was brought into being by the social compact, and whose wishes bear the name of laws.' But Rousseau did not accept that war could be controlled or abolished by any rational 'law of nations'. That could do little or nothing to mitigate the competitive striving for power inherent in the structure of the state-system. Even less did a solution lie in any international organisation of the type which the Abbé Saint Pierre had proposed after the War of Spanish Succession in his Projet pour une Paix Perpetuelle; which was little more than an attempt to freeze the status quo by a mutual security pact. Rousseau in his edition of 18 De Montesquieu, The Spirit of the Laws, trsl. by T. Nugent (New York 1949), I.2, p. 5. 19 Ibid. X.2, p. 134. 20 C. E. Vaughan, Political Writings