t there was no doubt whatever about the enthusiasm of British public opin- ion, as expressed by every conduit open to it.35 Cobden had received a hint of what to expect at the Great Exhibition of 1851, in that very temple of peace and prosperity-the Crystal Palace; where, on the appearance of the Duke of Wellington, whom he regarded as the embodiment of the martial aristocratic establishment, 'the frenzy of admiration and enthusiasm which took possession of a hundred thousand people of all classes was one of the most impressive les- sons I had ever had of the real tendencies of the English character.'36 Cobden could only explain this phenomenon by suggesting that somehow the entire English people had been infected with aristo- cratic vices; that, as he put it the following year, 'the aristocracy has converted the combativeness of the English race to its own sinister ends.'37 Certainly he proved unable to infect public opinion with his own virtues. His protests, and those of Bright, against British policy were howled down in the House of Commons, in the Press, and at meeting after public meeting. Cobden and Bright were thus the first liberal leaders, and by no means the last, to discover that peace 34 Cf. A.J.P. Taylor, The Trouble Makers (London 1957), passim esp., pp. 28, 39. 35 See Olive Anderson, A Liberal State at War: English Politics and Economics during the Crimean War (London 1967). 36 Quoted in Dawson, op. cit. p. 123. 37 Hobson, op. cit. p. 90. 37 and democracy do not go hand in hand; that public opinion is not an infallible specific against war; and that 'the people,' for whatever reason, can be very bellicose indeed. Cobden found himself increas- ingly isolated, even from the classes which had brought him to power and whose interest in peace he and his followers had taken so much for granted. Nor did they come to their senses when the war was over: 'Sometimes,' Cobden said sadly in 1864, the last year of his life, 'when observing the spirit which pervade