ll disputes to a Common Council ... cannot be attained until the constitutionally-gov- 5 Beales, A History of Peace, p. 293. 67 erned democracies of the West are brought to realise how impossible it is that their ... well-being can be secured under a system of government which leaves them at the mercy of the intrigues and imbecilities of professional diplomats and of the ambitions of military castes.6 The same point was made even more forcefully by the young Ber- trand Russell in a pamphlet he wrote for the UDC, The Foreign Policy of the Entente:7 The interests of British democracy do not conflict at any point with the interests of mankind. The interests of the British governing classes conflict at many points with the interests of mankind ... A policy of adventure and national prestige appeals most forcibly to the rich, while the wage-earning class, if it understood its own interest and were not caught by the glamour of Jingo phrases, [my italics] would insist upon a policy of peace and international conciliation. Here once more we have the liberal credo: peace depended on the spread of democracy-or at least, guided democracy. But the logical corollary of that belief was that democracy must be uniformly dis- tributed among the nations of the world. It was that which in the eyes of so many liberals made the fight against German militarism a just war. But this implied an abandonment of the liberal belief in non-intervention, and the acceptance of interventionism of a new and far-reaching kind. It could hardly be said that the Allies were fighting on behalf of the German people against oppressive govern- ment. They were fighting to make the German people change their system of government, whether they wanted to or not, in the inter- ests of world peace. The UDC and its associates did, with great courage and consist- ency, continue to draw a doubtfully tenable distinction between Ger- man militarism and the German people. They assumed that if only the German people kne