m,' wrote one of them, L.T. Hobhouse, in 1904, ' ... has been drawn from struggles of the nations against Napoleon, of the Eastern Christians against Turkey, of the Poles against Russia, of the Italians against Austria, of the Irish against England.' In his view this was entirely as it should be: 'The safeguards of liberty,' he went on, 'cannot be maintained when one class or one nationality is being held in bondage by another, even though that other holds power nominally in virtue of a majority of votes.'17 So as one nationality after another began to assert its identity throughout the world, groups of British sympathisers formed to agi- tate on their behalf as they had for Kossuth and Mazzini. Armenians and Persians, Boers and Indians, Macedonians, Montenegrins and Bulgarians, Czechs and Croats, Serbs and Ruthenians-why should they not fight for the same liberties as Garibaldi had won for the Italians? H.N. Brailsford began his career fighting for the cause of the Greeks against Turkey in 1897, alongside Italian volunteers who wore the red shirts of Garibaldi.18 When the Balkan League was formed to fight the Turks in 1912, it enjoyed almost unanimous Lib- eral support. David Lloyd George welcomed that war as 'enlarging the boundaries of freedom'.19 Brailsford suggested that the Balkan peoples 'would incur a worse blood-guilt by tolerating oppression' than by appealing to arms, while Norman Angell, fresh from expos- ing the great illusion that nations might have anything to gain by going to war, qualified his teaching by stating that 'Peace under the Turks was equivalent to war; the liberation of the Balkans was the corridor to civilisation.'20 The disillusion of 1913 when the victori- ous Balkan League, instead of peacefully co-operating as liberated 17 L.T. Hobhouse, Democracy and Reaction (London 1904), pp. 157, 165. 18 H.N. Brailsford, The War of Steel and Gold (London 1914), p. 174. 19 A.J.A Morris, Radicalism against War 1906-1914 (London 1972), p. 352. 20 H.