e but that it was necessary and might be splendid, and found in the concept of their Nation a cause for which they really were prepared to die. This is not the place to seek to explore the sociological roots of this nationalism or to explain why the destruction of the monarcho- feudal order in France should have released such a torrent of martial energy, canalised and focused by the concept of a nation to which all its citizens owed a total loyalty and for which they had, if called upon, to lay down their lives. For the French the army was the na- tion, and the nation founded itself in war: war first to liberate itself, 40 Joseph Mazzini, Life and Writings (London 1890), vol. III, p. 257-8. 41 Quoted in R.J. Vincent, Non-Intervention and the International Order (Princeton U. P. 1974), p. 61. 39 then to liberate others. Initially the French nation had defined itself in opposition to the monarchy which it first shackled, then destroyed. "The principle of all sovereignty resides essentially in the Nation,' ran the Declaration of the Rights of Man.42 'No body or individual may exercise any authority which does not proceed directly from the Na- tion.' But very quickly the nation came to define itself in relation and opposition to foreigners. In Germany it had never been anything else. Before the Revolution had begun, Herder had been preaching the excellence of diversity and the need for nations to rediscover and re-emphasise their unique Volksgeist.43 After the disaster of Jena in 1860 Fichte urged Germans to find strength in the deep wells of their national culture to enable them to resist the invader, morally as much as physically: and so far from this movement being directed against their own rulers, the German liberals beseeched their dynasties to put themselves at its head. The apotheosis of German liberalism, as of German nationalism, came when the King of Prussia allowed himself to be made Emperor of Germany, at Versailles in January 1871, after a war fought, cons