400. 22 In C.H. Rolph, Kingsley: the Life ... of Kingsley Martin (London 1973), p. 245. 23 Gilbert, op. cit. p. 415. 93 months later still a happy man; but only just. Twelve days after his death, Hitler entered Prague. Thus appeasement, no less than the struggle against Fascism, was the product of the liberal conscience, and the two sentiments could cohabit within the same breast. They did, for example, in that of Kingsley Martin, who, in spite of his belief that the Czechs should yield their frontier rather than provoke war, wrote in the New States- man in March 1938:24 It is time that the people of England told Mr Chamberlain in unmistakable language that for a policy of connivance and encouragement to Fascism the British nation is not prepared for more taxation, for more conscription or for discipline, but that there is no sacrifice it is not prepared to undergo for a government which really intends to throw its weight on the side of democ- racy and against aggression. It was a terrible problem for the truly conscientious. Should Ger- many's wrongs be righted, at risk of strengthening Fascism? But if her wrongs were righted, might this not weaken Fascism? If the German people had restored to them the rights and territories of which they had been deprived by the Versailles Settlement, would not they rejoin the comity of peace-loving powers, and their militarism wither away? In general, however, in the last two years before the war, the liberal conscience was militant rather than appeasing. After 1937 the Labour Party in the House of Commons ceased its opposition to the annual Service Estimates, even if it now supported them only out of a sense of self-preservation. As Dalton told the Party Conference in October 1937, 'A British Labour Government, coming to power tomorrow, would be in danger of humiliations, intimidations and acts of foreign intervention in our national affairs which it is not tolerable for Englishmen to contemplate.'25 There were of course still t