confrontation. The first commanded the support of most articulate public opinion; the latter was to prevail. But it was the first, the voice of the liberal conscience, that now counselled war; the second, the voice of the government, the officials, the despised 'establishment', that courted public and international humiliation to preserve peace. The pattern was shortly to be repeated. RU COLLEGE LIBRARY 5 THE CHALLENGE OF FASCISM 1935-1945 In the last chapter we attempted to trace what had happened to the various strands of British Liberal thinking about war and in- ternational politics as a result of the First World War. Tom Paine's doctrine, that peace could be brought about only by revolution, was now the accepted view of the left wing of the Labour Party, with Harold Laski as its most forceful expounder, Stafford Cripps as its political standard bearer, the indefatigable and now sexagenarian Sir Charles Trevelyan outdoing the most violent of his juniors in his commitment to the cause. The Mazzinian doctrine, that peace could result only from national self-determination, had left its followers in disarray. It had caused chaos at the Paris peace conference, and it was increasingly clear that this mode of thought lent itself far more read- ily to right-wing authoritarianism, not least to Mussolini's Fascist movement and its more powerful imitator north of the Alps, than it did to any form of parliamentary democracy. Certainly it provided no answer to the problem of international order, as Norman Angell pointed out in his book The Unseen Assassins in 1932. The interna- tional anarchy, he wrote,1 is not created by Capitalism, nor would it be solved by Socialism. And So- cialist States which were also Nationalist would have even more cause for quarrel than States which permit individuals to form economic organisa- tions which are often in fact international, which function in large degree irrespective of national barriers. 1 Norman Angell, The Unseen Assassins, p. 201