accept any invitations except from the Prime Minister or from members of the American or British armed services. These always had business as their primary object.  Visits to the troops had not yet assumed their later proportions on my schedule; there were still relatively few units in the United Kingdom to visit. One of the earliest trips of this sort was in connection with our first offensive operation against the enemy—a bombing raid to celebrate July 4, 1942. The targets were four German airdromes in Holland. Six Bostons under command of Captain Charles C. Kegelman, included as part of a larger British formation, ran into severe flak and two failed to return.16! To mark our entry into the European fighting I took time to visit the crews immedi- ately before the take-off, and talked with the survivors after their return.  During the war Mr. Churchill maintained such close contact with all operations as to make him a virtual member of the British Chiefs of Staff; 1 cannot remember any major discussixn with them in which he did not participate.  An inspirational leader, he seemed to typify Britain’s courage and perseverance in adversity and its conservatism in success. He was a man of extraordinarily strong convictions and a master in argument and debate. Completely devoted to winning the war and discharging his responsibility as Prime Minister of Great Britain, he was difficult indeed to combat when conviction compelled disagreement with his views. In most cases problems were solved on a basis of almost instant agreement, but intermittently important issues arose where this was far from true. He could become intensely oratorical, even in discussion with a single person, but at the same time his intensity of purpose made his delivery seem natural and appropriate. He used humor and pathos with equal facil- ity, and drew on everything from the Greek classics to Donald Duck for quotation, cliché, and forceful slang to support his position.  I admired and liked him. He