rmy, forced a crossing of the river near The  The final crossing of the Rhine against resistance was made by  From there the French were subsequently to strike southeastward in the direction of Stuttgart and clear the eastern bank of the Rhine all the way to the  5 ARNHEM Lower any  68%  7 MUNCHEN- u e \GLADBACH  RT Han"? = feei®  i 44 MAINZ’ MW’ | OSTHIRD ARMY |  MAR.22-23  MANNHEIM‘  MILES 25 50 iss  e E RHINE BARRIER BREACHED |e \  We now had crossings over the Rhine in every main channel we had selected for invasion. The ease with which these were accomplished and the light losses that we suffered incident to them were in great contrast to what certainly would have happened had the Germans, during the winter, withdrawn from the west bank and made their decisive stand along the river. It is a formidable obstacle and the terrain all along the eastern bank affords strong defensive positions. Frontal assaults against the German Army, even at the decreased strength and efficiency available to it in early 1945, would have been a costly business.  We owed much to Hitler. There is no question that his General Staff, had it possessed a free hand in the field of military operations, would have foreseen certain disaster on the western bank and would have pulled back the defending forces, probably no later than the beginning of January. At that time the abortive attack in the Ardennes was a proven failure and the participating German troops were being driven back in defeat. Moreover. on Tanuarv 12 the Russians began a great offensive that was to carrv them all the wav from the Vistula to the Oder. within thirtv miles of Berlin.  Page 468 of 669 68%  We now had crossings over the Rhine in every main channel we had selected for invasion. The ease with which these were accomplished and the light losses that we suffered incident to them were in great contrast to what certainly would have happened had the Germans, during the winter, withdrawn from the west bank and made their de