21  OVERRUNNING GERMANY cc  THE INDUSTRIAL IMPORTANCE OF THE Ruhr to Germany had been greatly diminished even before we surrounded it. Not only had the factories of the region been the targets of many heavy bombing raids but in February 1945 the Allied air force had initiated an interdiction program designed to cut the communication lines leading from the Ruhr into the heart of Germany. That operation had been markedly successful and we knew that the Germans were having great difficulty in transporting munitions from the Ruhr to the armies still remaining in the fields. As a consequence of the threats now developing on both sides of that area and because of its greatly diminished usefulness, it would have seemed logical for the Germans to withdraw their military forces for use in opposing our forward advances. Certainly it should have been clear to the German General Staff that when once the Ruhr was surrounded there would be lost not only its industries but whatever military forces might be jammed into its defenses. Nevertheless, the Germans once again stood in place.  Bradley’s forces on the south and Montgomery’s in the north fought steadily toward their appointed meeting place near Kassel. The resistance to Simpson’s Ninth Army, which was on the right of Montgomery’s army group, was more stubborn than that encountered by the First and Third Armies advancing out of the Frankfurt area. As a result, the southern arm of our pincers swung well around the eastern and northeastern flanks of the Ruhr to meet Simpson’s advancing columns in the vicinity of Lippstadt, near Paderborn.  By April 1, just one week after the Twenty-first Army Group had crossed the Rhine in the Wesel sector, the junction was complete, the Ruhr was surrounded, and its garrison was trapped.  Page 477 of 669. 69%  REPEL £0 CURIE AIIM OLIV LORCLVE LU OUP PULL. SEE OLIUUEM RUPLLLLIUE EU RUPELETIUL LIL ALE LLCOCLY WEEE LIS WUT ALIMO! 112 Se UE LES OU VICE Sat iy Later, on April 7, I included the follo