every positive action requires expenditure. The problem is to determine how, in space and time, to expend assets so as to achieve the maximum in results. When this has been determined, then assets must be spent with a lavish hand, particularly when the cost can be measured in the saving of lives.  General Oliver’s insistence, his desire to get to the battle, his pleading to take on a grueling march rather than to accept the easy solution with himself entirely absolved of responsibility, all impressed me greatly. Within five minutes he was on his way with the orders he sought.  During that night and the following one Algiers was bombed incessantly.|6! No great numbers of the Luftwaffe came over at any one time but the continuous din made sleep impossible and the lack of it soon showed plainly in the faces of headquarters personnel. The principal targets were the ships in the harbor, a quarter of a mile below our hotel, but bombs landing in the city caused some cas- ualties and abundant consternation.  Our air defenses were only slowly developed; one of the ships we had lost to enemy submarines had been carrying most of the warning and control equipment vital to fighter defense. But by the end of the month we had partially corrected the deficiencies, and after the Luftwaffe had taken several nasty knocks it abandoned its attacks against our principal ports except for attempted sneak and surprise forays. One night we got unmistakable proof that the enemy’s bombing crews had developed a healthy respect for the quality of our defenses. We intercepted a radio report from the commander of a bombing squadron to his home base. He said, “Bombs dropped on Algiers as ordered.” But we knew he had dropped his bombs thirty miles out to sea because we had a plane in contact with him at the time. This evidence of weakening enemy morale was instantly circulated to our own people. It was astounding to see its buoyant effect.  After but three days’ intensive work at headquarters I star