msay was a most competent commander of courage, resourcefulness, and tremendous energy. Moreover, all of us knew him to be helpful and companionable, even though we sometimes laughed among ourselves at the care with which he guarded, in British tradition and practice, the “senior service” position of the British Navy.  On Christmas Eve we listened to the radio, having learned that President Roosevelt was to make a significant speech. During that talk he made the first public announcement of my transfer to command of Overlord and included in the statement the designation of the title I was to assume. The title was Supreme Commander, Allied Expeditionary Forces.!18] This sounded very imposing and inspired Commander Butcher, my naval aide, to say that his major problem for the next week or so would be to design proper stationery to carry my exalted title.  The most significant of my final acts in the Mediterranean took place on Christmas Day, 1943. On that day I had just completed another tour along the front lines in Italy and I then took off for Tunisia, where I met the Prime Minister. Present with him were the new commander in chief of the Mediterranean, General Sir Henry Maitland Wilson, along with General Alexander and a number of staff officers. The matter for discussion was a proposed amphibious operation against Anzio. The operation could not be launched before January, after my departure, and my own conclusions on the matter were not decisive. Nevertheless, I was involved because of the fact that launching the attack would require a delay in the planned schedule for shipping certain landing craft to England. Conse- quently my concurrence in the project was sought.[191  Aan tla aitentinn than stand tn Thales fb crane anennennt thant 2 aban dee denn nn en than nnnin nels Anan dnd 2 neennnnninn 26 nt Aanlinn nnnentinns Lee nnn nenfaenblee wn Lath Mantes Trand an atenaten  Page 250 of 669 37%  a of study, investigation, and planning.  The command organization that