e attack, but he had no report upon the circumstances of that action.  There were known to be shortages in essential items of supply, but in the matter of food and normal types of ammunition it was thought there would be little difficulty, provided the garrison was given time to concentrate these at their points of greatest usefulness.  The Navy Yard at Cavite, just outside Manila, had been damaged very severely by Japanese bombers on December 10. That portion of the modest task force comprising the Asiatic Fleet which was disposed at or near Manila consisted mainly of small divisions of submarines. The largest warship in the Asiatic Fleet was the heavy cruiser Houston, at Iloilo.!6!  Against a strong and sustained attack, forces such as these could not hold out indefinitely. All the evidence indicated that the Japanese intended to overrun the Philippines as rapidly as possible, and the problem was to determine what could now be done.  General Marshall took perhaps twenty minutes to describe all this, and then abruptly asked, “What should be our general line of action?”  Page 18 of 669 3%  ee ee nee eee nee ee eee eee eee eee eee en ne ee eee en eee eee en eee ee eee eee eee ee ene eee eee ee ee eee ieee ee eee ne eee ee ee eee ee ee eee ee ee eee eee eon eee eee eee ee eee een em ee Ne NEE Nee Ne NINE DN RE ON I DLDAD YY BALLIN Ne BBN NADA J ed PEN eNO  I reported to General Marshall early on Sunday morning, December 14, and for the first time in my life talked to him for more than two minutes at a time. It was the fourth time I had ever seen him. Without preamble or waste of time the Chief of Staff outlined the general situation, naval and military, in the western Pacific.  The Navy informed him that the Pacific fleet would be unable for some months to participate in major operations. The Navy’s carriers remained intact because they had not been at Pearl Harbor at the time of the attack,l1! but supporting vessels for the carriers were so few in number that great r