ns were to drop close to the front lines, merely far enough back so that they would not be within the zone of our own artillery fire. From those positions they were to wreck the enemy’s artillery organization and participate directly in the tactical battle. Elaborate arrangements were made for the use of smoke to provide artificial concealment for the river crossing and a great array of guns was assembled to support it.l11  The Rhine was a formidable military obstacle, particularly so in its northern stretches. It was not only wide but treacherous, and even the level of the river and the speed of its currents were subject to variation because the enemy could open dams along the great river’s eastern tributaries. Special reconnaissance and warning detachments were set up to guard against this threat. Because of the na- ture of the obstacle the crossing resembled an assault against a beach, except that the troops, instead of attacking from ship to shore, were carried into the battle from shore to shore.  Study of conditions indicated the great desirability of naval participation in the attack. We needed vessels of sufficient size to transport tanks with the leading assault waves, and so the Navy began the transfer to the front of landing boats known as LCMs and LCV(P)s. Part of these were brought up by waterways but many of them had to be hauled over the roads of northern Europe. Special trailers were constructed for the purpose and these small ships, some of them 45 feet in length and 14 feet wide, were successfully transported overland for participation in the attack.  The Twenty-first Army Group’s organic strength when the assault began was fifteen divisions. With the two airborne divisions and Simpson’s Ninth Army there were twenty-nine divisions and seven separate brigades under Montgomery’s operational command that day.!2! Not all of these, however, could immediately be committed to the eastward thrust, since Montgomery had to protect his long left flank, stretc