e effected.  With these several considerations in mind I determined that as soon as the Twelfth and Twenty-first Army Groups could complete the Ruhr envelopment our next major advances would comprise three essential parts.  The first would be a powerful thrust by Bradley directly across the center of Germany. By following this route his armies would traverse the central plateau of the country. Thus he wNuld cross the rivers near their headwaters where they do not constitute the serious obstacles that they do in the northern German plain near the sea. To assure Bradley of enough strength to drive uninterruptedly across the country the U.S. Ninth Army was to be returned to his command.!20] Additionally we organized for Bradley’s group a new army, the Fifteenth, under the command of General Gerow, which was to have two principal functions. It was to take over matters of military government in rear of advancing troops. It would also provide the necessary Allied strength on the western bank of the Rhine facing the Ruhr to prevent any of the Germans in that region from raiding important points on our supply lines west of the river. Gerow was furthermore charged with the command of the U.S. 66th Division, which, hundreds of miles to the westward, was still containing the German garrisons in the Biscay ports of St. Nazaire and Lorient.[211  Bradley’s advance with his three armies was to begin as soon as he had made sure that the German forces in the Ruhr could not interfere with his communications. I had no intention of conducting a bitter, house-to-house battle for the destruction of the Ruhr garrison. It was a thickly populated region with no indigenous sources of food supply. Hunger alone could certainly bring about eventual capitulation and spare the Allies great numbers of casualties.  The second and third parts of the general plan visualized, following upon Bradley’s junction with the Russians somewhere along the Elbe, a rapid advance on each of our flanks. The northe