a turn for the better and all the combat planes we had were put into the fight. An embarrassing incident arose during these air attacks which, while admittedly due to lack of experience on the part of combat crews, still illustrates the technical difficulties of which critics, fight- ing battles from the comfort of an armchair, know nothing.  A group of Fortresses was ordered to bomb Kasserine Pass. They took off in cloudy weather and spent some time searching for the target. Completely dependent upon dead reckoning for navigation, they became badly lost. When they finally concluded they were over the target they dropped their bombs on Souk-el-Arba, an important town within our lines and more than a hundred miles from Kasserine Pass.!21] A number of Arabs were killed and wounded, and much property destroyed. We had to act fast to avoid disagreeable consequences. We had already learned that the native population would amicably settle almost any difficulty for money, and here we were so clearly in the wrong that I quickly approved the expenditure of a few thousand dollars to support our apologies; in war there frequently arise such contingencies, requiring instant availability of funds. The War Department, recognizing this, gave to each theater commander considerable credits to be used when needed.  On the evening of the twenty-second I discussed the situation personally with General Fredendall and told him that the enemy was no longer capable of offensive action. I informed him that he was perfectly safe in taking any reasonable risk in launching local counterattacks that could be properly supported by his artillery. I was so certain of this evaluation that I told the corps commander that I would assume full responsibility for any disadvantage that might result from vigorous action on his part. Fredendall felt that the enemy had “one more shot in his locker” and believed that he should spend the next twenty-four hours in perfecting and strengthening his defenses, rat