at Field Marshal Brooke expressed his own tremendous pleasure that the operations of February and March had been carried through as planned by SHAEF.[6|  About noon of March 24 it was necessary for me to rush down to Bradley’s headquarters to confer on important phases of his own operations. After I left, the Prime Minister persuaded the local commander to take him across the Rhine in an LCM. He undoubtedly derived an intense satisfaction from putting his foot on the eastern bank of Germany’s traditional barrier. Possibly he felt the act was symbolic of the final defeat of an enemy who had forced Britain’s back to the wall five years before. However, had I been present he would never have been permitted to cross the Rhine that day.  As was normal with us, the air force participated intensively in the attack. For a number of days preceding March 23 we placed a continuous air bombardment upon a wide variety of targets in the area. Chief among these targets were enemy airfields, with particular attention given every field from which we believed the Germans could operate a jet plane. Starting on March 21, we constantly drenched all these fields with bombs. The runways were effectively cratered and planes were destroyed on the ground. These measures were decisive: on the day of the attack the Allied air force flew about 8,000 sorties and saw fewer than 100 enemy planes in the air.!7| During all this time we were favored with excellent weather; visibility was perfect.  During March 24 we also conducted diversionary air operations in order to prevent the concentration of enemy fighters at the point of attack. A hundred and fifty bombers of the Fifteenth Air Force, located in Italy, flew fifteen hundred miles to attack Berlin. Other air forces from Italy raided airfields in the south. Long before this time the RAF Bomber Command, originally designed for night bombing only, had begun to participate regularly in daylight attacks. With the protection provided by our great arra