ponded promptly and within the American area began the work of providing strong defenses for the Meuse line. General Montgomery, in the British area, also took this early precau- tion to protect the dumps and depots in the rear. The German’s advance, in spite of his failure at Monschau, was very rapid through the center of the break-through. As the advance continued it gradually began swinging to the north and northwest, and it was evident that the enemy’s objective lay in that direction. We believed that his first purpose would be the capture of Liége. We reasoned that even if he had the more ambitious objective of Antwerp he would have to depend partially upon supplies he might capture at Liége. We arrived at this conclusion because from the beginning we had counted upon the German deficiency in supplies, particularly the difficulties he was certain to encounter in transporting them to the front. Consequently we believed that his continued advance would depend, almost regardless of cou)stermeasures of our own, upon the capture of one of our great supply depots. Even if the German had possessed as efficient a supply system as we—which he did not—he would still have found tremendous difficulty in supplying his spearheads over the miserable roads available, which were at the same time, of course, crowded with his reinforcements pushing to the front.  ) AACHEN @  rm nen /  ~  Page 413 of 669 60%  =  re  the north but prevented quick encirclement of the Monschau } position.  Finally the continued and heavy pressure of the Germans tended further to isolate the 7th Armored. A concentrated attack by several divisions on December 20 drove it to the west, in the area north of St. Vith. Consequently it was ordered to withdraw the next day to join the Allied lines which were now building up on the north flank of the German salient. But the great stand of the division had not only badly upset the timetable of the German spearheads: its gallant action had been most helpful to t