chyite would create great revulsion among those in England and America who did not know the harsh realities of war; therefore I determined to confine my judgment in the matter to the local military aspects. Taking Admiral Cunningham with me, I flew to Algiers on November 13, and upon reaching there went into conference with General Clark and Mr. Murphy, the American consul general in the area.|20l This was the first time I had seen Murphy since his visit to London some weeks before.  They first gave me a full account of events to date. On November 10, Darlan had sent orders to all French commanders to cease fighting.!21| Pétain, in Vichy, immediately disavowed the act and declared Darlan dismissed. Darlan then tried to rescind the order, but this Clark would not allow. Next the news was received in Algiers that the Germans were invading southern France, and now Darlan said that because the Germans had violated the 1940 armistice he was ready to co-operate freely with the Americans. In the meantime General Giraud, at first shocked to discover that the local French would not follow him, had become convinced that Darlan was the only French official in the region who could lead North Africa to the side of the Allies. When the Germans entered southern France Giraud went to Darlan to offer co-operation. The fighting at Casablanca had ceased because of Darlan’s order; at other places the fighting was over before the order was received. The French offi- cers who had openly assisted us, including Generals Bethouart and Mast, were in temporary disgrace; they were helpless to do anything.  After exhaustive review of the whole situation Mr. Murphy said, “The whole matter has now become a military one. You will have to give the answer.”  While we were reaching a final decision he stepped entirely aside except to act upon occasion as interpreter. It was squarely up to me to decide whether or not the procurement of an armistice, the saving of time and lives, and the early developm