as far ‘removed from its s making, and countless occasions were  to arise when argument, blandishment, and exhortation would seek its abandonment. But the war in Europe was finally won because through every trial and every temptation—in spite of difficulty, delay, pressure, and profitable preliminary operations in the Mediterranean which themselves offered a temptation to forsake the original concept—the President, General Marshall, and many others never wavered from their purpose of launching a full-out invasion of Europe across the English Channel at the earliest practicable moment.  Chapter 4  PLATFORM FOR INVASION ee s  VERY SHORTLY AFTER GENERAL MARSHALL returned from the April conference in London he called me to his office. He said that during his visit he had found little chance to look over American activity but had become concerned because American officers on duty in London were not familiar with the broader problems and objectives of the War Department.l1! Specifically, they seemed to know nothing about the maturing plans that visualized the British Isles as the greatest operating military base of all time. Marshall directed me to visit London to see what I could do about correcting this situation and to bring back recommendations involving future organization and development of our European forces. I requested permission to take with me Major General Mark Clark, then chief of staff for General McNair, head of the ground forces. I felt that Clark’s observations regarding the suitability of the United Kingdom as a training and staging ground would prove valuable.  We started just after the middle of May. Our trip took us over the Northern Air Route, developed by the Army Air Forces and destined to become a significant factor in the final defeat of the European Axis. Airfields in Maine, Newfoundland, Labrador, Greenland, Iceland, and Scotland eventually made it possible to ferry all our planes, even fighters, to Europe. Without that route, built in spite o