MANY’S FRONTIER eee  IN SEPTEMBER OUR ARMIES WERE crowding up against the borders of Germany. Enemy defenses were naturally and artificially strong. Devers’ U.S. Seventh and French First Armies were swinging in  Page 382 of 669 56%  there was greater contusion because Communist penetration in trade unions and elsewhere Nad created sharp political division within the country which was reflected 1n divided councils and some disunity, even, in the prosecution of the war. For example, great portions of the former underground, or, as they were called, Maquis, refused to enter the Army except as separate units. They insisted upon forming their own regiments and divisions under their own leaders.  Unless their demands were met, it was feared they might even maintain themselves in various parts of the country as armed bands ready to challenge the authority of the Central Provisional Government. Their plan could not be wholly accepted by the government because the manifest result would have been the establishment of two French armies, one serving under and loyal to the gen- erally recognized government, the other responsible only to itself. However, the government developed a plan to accept the Maquis in units no larger than battalion size.  Thoughtful Frenchmen frequently discussed with me the reasons for their national collapse in 1940. In other countries an opinion prevailed that the French military debacle came about because of an excessive faith in the efficiency of the Maginot Line. I did not find any Frenchmen who agreed with this. They felt that the fortified line along the eastern border was necessary and served a good purpose in that it should have allowed the French Army to concentrate heavily on the northern flank of the line to oppose any German advances through Belgium. Militarily, they felt, their difficulties came about because of internal political weaknesses. One French businessman said to me, “We defeated ourselves from within; we tried to oppose a four-da