f our country was ever so suddenly struck in his emotional vitals by a President with such an apparently sincere and certainly astounding proposition as this. Now and then, in conversations with friends, jocular suggestions had previously been made to me about a possible political career. My reaction was always instant repudiation, but to have the President suddenly throw this broadside into me left me no recourse except to treat it as a very splendid joke, which I hoped it was. I laughed heartily and said: “Mr. President, I don’t know who will be your opponent for the presidency, but it will not be I.” There was no doubt about my seriousness.  The co-operative note, on the international political level, which marked the end of the Potsdam Conference was echoed on the levels of military administration. In all our dealings with the Russian  owtite matbtionn fe TheadlZan cine ciemene an wetliecel ewes Saccekiel be meters moni de tee, Da ns Vndelemes mew cares amenecn Seen meee man A een eee acres Oa An mere dL a eee Re Tee Peed nee eee De Net A eee ry  Page 523 of 669 76%  s,s  re  Another item on which I ventured to advise President Truman involved the Soviets’ intention to enter the Japanese war. [24] Itold him that s since reports indicated the imminence of Japan’s ‘Ss collapse I deprecated the Red Army’s engaging in that war. I foresaw certain difficulties arising out of such participation and suggested that, at the very least, we ought not to put ourselves in the position of requesting or begging for Soviet aid. It was my personal opinion that no power on earth could keep the Red Army out of that war unless victory came before they could get in. However, I did not then foresee the future relentless struggle born in ideological antagonisms, or the paralysis of international co-operation because of that struggle. I merely feared serious administrative complications and possible revival of old Russian claims and purposes in the Far East that might prove very embarra