e flight, and 2,153 other fighters provided cover over the target area and established a de- fensive screen to the eastward.!41  Fog and the smoke of the battlefield prevented a complete view of the airborne operation but I was able to see some of the action. A number of our planes were hit by anti-aircraft, generally, however, only after they had dropped their loads of paratroopers. As they swung away from the battle area they seemed to come over a spot where anti-aircraft fire was particularly accurate. Those that were struck fell inside our own lines, and in nearly every case the crews succeeded in saving themselves by taking to their parachutes. Even so, our loss in planes was far lighter than we had calculated. Op- eration Varsity, the name given to the airborne phase of this attack, was the most successful airborne operation we carried out during the war.|5!  During the morning I met the Prime Minister with Field Marshal Brooke. Mr. Churchill always seemed to find it possible to be near the scene of action when any particularly important operation was to be launched. On that morning he was delighted, as indeed were all of us. He exclaimed over and over, “My dear General, the German is whipped. We’ve got him. He is all through.” The Prime Minister was merely voicing what all of us felt and were telling each other. It was on that morning also that Field Marshal Brooke expressed his own tremendous pleasure that the operations of February and March had been carried through as planned by SHAEF.[6|  About noon of March 24 it was necessary for me to rush down to Bradley’s headquarters to confer on important phases of his own operations. After I left, the Prime Minister persuaded the local commander to take him across the Rhine in an LCM. He undoubtedly derived an intense satisfaction from putting his foot on the eastern bank of Germany’s traditional barrier. Possibly he felt the act was symbolic of the final defeat of an enemy who had forced Britain’s back to the wal