rt, but we could not force social acceptance at that time. Their wives were coldly treated, even insulted, by the wives of other officers. The feeling against them was initially so strong that they themselves, and Giraud, counseled against the attempt to use them in administrative positions.  In this period I made another error, even though from a good motive. It was the application of censorship to political news from North Africa for a period of six weeks. Because of personal dislike of censorship, I had to be convinced that the reason for such action was important. In this case it was. The plan of my political advisers and myself was to promote an eventual union between the local French administration and the De Gaulle forces in London. It was, we felt, a difficult but necessary development.  The local antagonism in the French Army and in all echelons of government against De Gaulle was intense, but he enjoyed a distinct popularity with the civilians and this sentiment progressively increased as prospects of Allied success brightened. Through every possible outlet open to them the De Gaulle forces in London and central Africa were fiercely attacking every French military and civil official in Africa, and the latter wanted to reply, publicly, in terms no less harsh. I believed that to permit the growth of such a public name-calling contest would create conditions which would make future reconciliation impossible. By imposing political censorship on all I prevented local French officials from participating in the public quarrel. They argued bitterly, as did the press representatives in the theater. I think the censorship had some of the desired effect, and it was lifted the second I learned that Giraud and De Gaulle had agreed to meet at Casablanca. The reasons for the censorship could not be explained, however, and were of course misinterpreted at home.  Tha inteianaian Af ELA aitentinn miilitness and nalitinnl cerned aaenlinntad Ler tha annnawia citiatian Masth A