te action at home upset the equilibrium we have been able to establish.  The name of Marshal Pétain is something to conjure with here. Everyone attempts to create the impression that he lives and acts under the shadow of the Marshal’s figure. Civil governors, military leaders, and naval commanders agree that only one man has an obvious right to assume the Marshal's mantle in North Africa. He is Darlan. Even Giraud, who has been our trusted adviser and staunch friend since early conferences succeeded in bringing him down to earth, recognizes this overriding consideration and has modified his own intentions accordingly.  The resistance we first met was offered because all ranks believed this to be the Marshal’s wish. For this reason Giraud is deemed to have been guilty of at least a touch of insubordination in urging non-resistance to our landing. General Giraud understands and appears to have some sympathy for this universal attitude. All concerned say they are ready to help us provided Darlan tells them to do so, but they are not willing to follow anyone else. Admiral Esteva in Tunis says he will take orders from Darlan. Nogués stopped fighting in Morocco by Darlan’s order. Recognition of Darlan’s posi- tion in this regard cannot be escaped.  The gist of the agreement is that the French will do what they can to assist us in taking Tunisia. The group will organize for effective co-operation and will begin, under Giraud, reorganization of selected military forces for participation in the war. The group will exhaust every expedient in an effort to get the Toulon fleet. We will support the group in controlling and pacifying country and in  Page 128 of 669 19%  status in Italy and, later, in Germany. Theoretically we were in the country of an ally. The actual effect of Darlan’s commitment was to recognize and give effect to our position of dominating influence —but we would have to use this position skillfully if we were to avoid trouble.  Darlan’s orders to the French A