svenor Square, where our headquarters and the American Embassy were located, through the soldier’s love of nicknames soon became “Eisenhowerplatz,” and was so referred to, at times, in the press.  This was merely amusing, but the location made it difficult to lead a quiet personal life. British hospitality and the presence in London of a number of American friends combined to bring me innumerable invitations of all kinds. Finally, to avoid the inescapable incidents of hotel life, I moved my personal quarters to a quiet little cottage on the edge of the city. I lived there with my naval aide, Commander Harry C. Butcher, and my orderly, Sergeant Michael McKeogh. Two Negro soldiers, Sergeants John Moaney and John Hunt, joined us to take care of the house and a simple mess. They stayed with me throughout the war.  From July onward I did not, during the war, accept any invitations except from the Prime Minister or from members of the American or British armed services. These always had business as their primary object.  Visits to the troops had not yet assumed their later proportions on my schedule; there were still relatively few units in the United Kingdom to visit. One of the earliest trips of this sort was in connection with our first offensive operation against the enemy—a bombing raid to celebrate July 4, 1942. The targets were four German airdromes in Holland. Six Bostons under command of Captain Charles C. Kegelman, included as part of a larger British formation, ran into severe flak and two failed to return.16! To mark our entry into the European fighting I took time to visit the crews immedi- ately before the take-off, and talked with the survivors after their return.  Page 68 of 669 10%  DVMEEE CULE ES ES VUNSUM LESYMELIL VUVLTLIEISLAL WY VUMOEL VALLE PEEOO LE PLCOUSLLALLV EO. SEES SLEEVE LAU UNS MOLLE OC AD OULELS VULLILLIALIMOLS CLEC EU MU VV SEES REAR RULE PLACEELL OLALEAEIE TLL LALA Ah UL this came about because the troops were not yet “blooded.” There has