fear the absence of this legal power.  Success in such organizations rests ultimately upon personalities; statesmen, generals, admirals, and air marshals—even populations—must develop confidence in the concept of single command and in the organization and the leader by which the single command is exercised. No binding regulation, law, or custom can apply to all its parts—only a highly developed sense of mutual confidence can solve the problem. Possibly this truth has equal applicability in peace.  Throughout the first winter of war the news from the East Indian region was increasingly bad and the Navy did not have sufficient strength to undertake major operations far from a friendly base.  Tenens teann and naven chin nan urhish cm nav VA lace avis Thanda curme dienatahand huevindler ta tha Cnutheurmne + Danifin Dart vir had an littlal  Page 31 of 669 5%  apremmuim, simultaneously we needed every type of flenting vessel, Cargo, and personnel snip.  Already we had learned the lesson that, while air power alone might not win a victory, no great victory is possible without air superiority. Consequently the need for airplanes in vast numbers competed with all other needs—shipping, cannon, tanks, rifles, ammunition, food, clothing, heavy construction material, and everything from beeswax to battleships that goes to make up a nation’s fighting power.  We had to do the best we could, with almost nothing to distribute but deficits, in stemming the onslaughts of our enemies, but plans for victory had to look far ahead to the day when the airplanes, the battle fleets, the shipping, the landing craft, and the fighting formations would allow us to pass to the offensive and to maintain it. It was in this realm of the future—a future so uncertain as to be one almost of make-believe—that the projected plan for European invasion had to take its initial form.  Plans for the future could not take priority over the needs of the day. In a desperate attempt to save the Netherlands Indies