ible Rear Admiral Alan Kirk, in command of the assault convoy, might even postpone the transfer to small boats for several hours, hoping for better weather conditions. It was so difficult for Admiral Cunningham to believe that landings in that area were feasible that he promptly took off in a destroyer to see what had happened. He came back and reported that the landings in the 45th Division sector constituted one of the finest exhibitions of seamanship it had been his pleasure to witness in forty-five years of sailoring.  As battle reports began to arrive it was evident that the enemy had been badly deceived as to the point of attack. His best formations were located largely on the western end of the island, which he had apparently believed we would select for attack because of its proximity to our own North African ports. His reaction was typical. He pushed east and south with his most mobile forces to attack the American 1st Division at Gela.|2! The division was not yet well ashore and these attacks seriously threatened to pierce through to the beach, but the enemy was short of supporting troops, particularly infantry and artillery. The gallant action of the 1st, supported steadfastly by an airborne formation and with assistance from naval gunfire, repulsed the counterattack after some hours of bitter touch- and-go fighting.  Believing that the enemy might persist in his counterattacks on this portion of our forces, I left Malta that night in a British destroyer to visit Patton and Hewitt, the ground and naval commanders directly concerned./3! When I arrived the following morning the German was pulling back, presumably to strengthen his defenses in the critical Catania area. Everybody was in fine fettle, and though we in the destroyer saw little more of the fighting than sporadic gunfire, yet we got a good conception of the whole action on the south coast, and two accompanying pressmen, of whom John Gunther  Page 207 of 669 31%  Some of us went outside for a shor