ns could do so. He sent his views to Wash- ington.|23)  The Prime Minister knew, of course, that, regardless of the distance the Allies might advance to the eastward, he and the President had already agreed that the British and American occupation zones  Page 470 of 669 68%  PPLE NUSolall LULLES WELLE LIL AILLY Cola Violett Uli LUE WME L With A ULI ESTO AM Uli Lho WEOLEL TL DALIN ULI LALLY SALI LLU IT) DELI. WU IVS IOlle OLLETIE LL, Wil E) SIRI all AU Y LU UMELVeL LU LU Walt elements some 2,000 tons of supplies by air transport every day, would sustain our spearheads thrusting across Germany. But if we should plan for a power crossing of the Elbe, with the single purpose of attempting to invest Berlin, two things would happen. The first of these was that in all probability the Russian forces would be around the city long before we could reach there. The second was that to sustain a strong force at such a distance from our major bases along the Rhine would have meant the practical immobilization of units along the remainder of the front. This I felt to be more than unwise; it was stupid. There were several other major purposes, beyond the encirclement of the Ruhr, to be accomplished quickly.  It was desirable to thrust our spearheads rapidly across Germany to a junction with the Red forces, thus to divide the country and effectually prevent any possibility of German forces acting as a unit. It was important also to seize the town of Liibeck in the far north as quickly as possible. By so doing we would cut off all German troops remaining in the Danish peninsula as well as those still in Norway. Such a thrust would also gain us northern ports in Germany through the capture of either Bremen or Hamburg, or both. This would again shorten our line of communications.  Equally important was the desirability of penetrating and destroying the so-called “National Redoubt.”119| For many weeks we had been receiving reports that the Nazi intention, in extremity, was to withdraw th