emoralization of the enemy in that region. Middleton’s VIII Corps, of the Third Army, was still west of the Rhine, lying along a stretch north of Braubach where, because of the rugged banks, bridging operations against an enemy looked  almost impossible. Nevertheless, t!  Frankfurt was cleared by March 29 and armored spearheads were thrust forward in the direction of Kassel.  Still farther south, in the Sixth  e advance out of the Remagen bridgehead began. The V Corps, now under Major General Clarence R. Huebner, thrust rapidly to the southeast and overran Limburg.  e VIII Corps made the attempt and, in spite of some sharp initial resistance, was successful. It was thus able to push forward directly and join in the great advance.  Army Group, Patch’s Seventh Army joined the attack. While that army had been engaged in the Saar operation the Rhine defenses in its region were considered  sufficiently strong to require the use of airborne troops in order to assure a successful river crossing. For this purpose the U.S. 13th Airborne Division was directed to plan an attack. However, so great  was the confusion of the enemy fo.  Worms on March 26. Enemy detachments at the water’s edge presented stubborn opposition but it was quickly overcome and the XV Corps completed the crossing on the twenty-seventh. Seventh Army immediately took up the advance and after linking up with the Third Army pushed on quickly to capture Mannheim. the French Army at Philippsburg April 1.  Swiss border. MAR.23-24 MAR.23-24 WESEL  DORTMUND  essen Sorry  . DUISBURG 77 MUNCHEN- (4 GLADBACH DUSSELDORF  ONSCHALis, LES FIRETARMT~ ANG mar ba Rn REMAGEN  F RAN! K FURT Ul “agg?  Zone  lowing his collapse in the Saar that the airborne assault was found unnecessary. General Haislip’s XV Corps, of the Seventh Army, forced a crossing of the river near The  The final crossing of the Rhine against resistance was made by  From there the French were subsequently to strike southeastward in the direction of Stuttg