ng that annoyed him was any effort to “pass the buck,” especially to him. Often he remarked that he could get a thousand men to do detailed work but too many were useless in responsible posts because they left to him the necessity of making every decision. He insisted that his principal assistants should think and act on their own conclusions in their own spheres of respon- sibility, a doctrine emphasized in our Army schools but too little practiced in peacetime.  By the same token he had nothing but scorn for any man who attempted “to do everything himself”—he believed that the man who worked himself to tatters on minor details had no ability to handle the more vital issues of war. Another type General Marshall disliked was the truculent personality—the man who confused firmness and strength with bad manners and deliberate discourtesy. He also avoided those with too great a love of the limelight. Moreover, he was irritated by those who were often in trouble with others or who were too stupid to see that leadership in conference, even with subordinates, is as important as on the battlefield.  Again, General Marshall could not stand the pessimist—the individual who was always painting difficulties in the darkest colors and was excessively fearful of the means at hand for overcoming them. He would never assign an officer to a responsible position unless he believed that the man was an enthusiastic supporter of the particular project and confident of the outcome. He believed in the offensive.  Sometimes, of course, selections were necessarily made from among officers who did not, in all respects, fully conform to these ideas. But when he made exceptions it was clear that General Marshall always maintained a positive, and permanent, mental reservation.  In the development of strategic, logistic, and operational plans for the Army and its Air Forces, the Operations Division worked closely with the Joint and the Combined Chiefs of Staff. From estimates of the current mili