f the War Department. In Alaska we were wide open to attack and there existed the definite possibility that the enemy might succeed in establishing himself in an Alaskan airfield, from which he could bomb, with one-way attacks, numbers of our important cities. The coast of Brazil was needed so that we could secure on the shoulder of the South American continent a base from which to combat submarines. That area had an added importance because it provided also a stepping-stone for airplane flights across the Atlantic. With the Mediter- ranean closed, the shortest route to the Middle East theater of war was over central Africa; we had to establish an air route across that undeveloped continent.  Russia, of course, was now an Ally; and another problem was to determine the ways and means through which effective help could be given her so that she could successfully maintain herself against the common enemy. The Middle East, with its vast oil resources, was still another region whose safety was important to America. It provided one of the avenues by which supplies might be sent to Russia and we had the problem of early establishment of communications northward from the Persian Gulf into Russian territory. Dozens of islands in the Pacific had to be garrisoned if we were to maintain the security of communications to our Australian base. Burma was another area in which we had a great interest because running through it was the last remaining line of supply for China.  As a prerequisite to everything else we had to stop the Japanese short of countries that were vital to our successful prosecution of the war—Australia and India.[11] And all of us tirelessly sought ways and means of helping the defenders of the Philippines.  Problems of disposing troops, including anti-aircraft defenses, at key points within the United States itself; of making distribution and allocations of such weapons as we then possessed; of establishing bases, particularly air bases, in South America, Afri