sion to enter Europe that never engaged in active battle.!231  The advance of the Third Army down the Danube began April 22. The enemy made an attempt at defense at Regensburg but both the III and XX Corps quickly established bridgeheads across the Danube east and west of the city and advanced rapidly down the river. The XII Corps’s 11th Armored Division plunged ahead on May 5 to receive the surrender of the German garrison at Linz in Aus- tria.[241  With his main forces nushins down the Nanuhe. Patton’s Third Armv was now reinforced hv the V Corns from Hodges’ armv. Patton directed the V to nush eastward into Czechoslovakia. The corns  Page 491 of 669 N%  Even before the Allied advance across central Germany began, we knew that the German Government was preparing to evacuate Berlin. The administrative offices seemed to be moving to the southward, possibly, we thought, to Berchtesgaden in the National Redoubt. Continuation of the movement was no longer possible after Bradley’s speedy advance barred further north-south traffic across the country. We knew also that Hitler had been unable to go south and that he was making his last stand in Berlin. Nevertheless, the strong possibility still existed that fanatical Nazis would attempt to establish themselves in the National Redoubt, and the early overrunning of that area remained important to us.|121 In the north also there remained weighty reasons for speeding up the planned attack in the direction of Liibeck.  The Liibeck advance would capture the last remaining submarine bases of the German and would effectively eliminate the final vestiges of that once serious menace.  We could not predict the action of the German occupation forces in Denmark. It was possible they would choose to defend that region stubbornly and in that event we planned to conduct a lightning campaign against them.  In early April, Montgomery had estimated that, to carry out the mission assigned him, he would need no strength beyond the seventeen di