ction he never wavered.  The history of those days of the Pacific war will one day be written in detail. The various decisions, movements, and actions will all be brought into their proper perspective and might-have-beens will be weighed against what was actually accomplished by Washington and by commanders in the field. This brief recitation is necessary only because, in some of its aspects, the Southwest Pacific situation had a bearing upon plans for the conduct of war in the Atlantic theater, with which I was to be closely associated. But, strive as we did, we could not save the Philippines. The epic of Bataan came to a tragic end on April 9; Corregidor surrendered on May 6.  Naturally I saw and conferred with General Marshall periodically. We fell into a practice of holding at least one general review a week, during which we often sat alone to evaluate the changing situation; sometimes others were called in, so that the conference took the form of a general orientation for key members of the staff. Marshall’s rapid absorption of the fundamentals of a presentation, his decisiveness, and his utter refusal to entertain any thought of failure infused the whole War Department with energy and confidence. His ability to delegate authority not only expedited work but impelled every subordinate to perform beyond his own suspected capacity.  True delegation implies the courage and readiness to back up a subordinate to the full; it is not to be confused with the slovenly practice of merely ignoring an unpleasant situation in the hope that someone else will handle it. The men who operate thus are not only incompetent but are always quick to blame and punish the poor subordinate who, while attempting to do both his own and his com- mander’s jobs, has taken some action that produces an unfortunate result.  One problem that gave the War Department continuing concern was that of securing practical battlefield experience for portions of the Army before the whole of it should fin