sist General Wilson. Consequently I had no fear that his lack of acquaintanceship with the principal French officials, and with plans for arming French forces by the American Government, would cause him embarrassment.  On the administrative side, however, there was much to do. In addition to my Allied responsibilities I was, of course, the commander of American forces in the theater. Administration of such a force, with its eternal questions of supply, maintenance, replacement, promotion, demotion, and a voluminous correspondence with the War Department, is a very intricate and sometimes very per- sonal process.  One of the first questions to be settled was the choice of the American officer who would now become deputy to General Wilson and who would therefore take over American adminif¥ative duties in the Mediterranean.  This brought up the problem of filling high American positions in both theaters—General Marshall and I of course wanted to place each man in the post where we felt his special qualifications could best assist in the prosecution of the war.  At that time my own ideas as to the best possible allocation of American commanders to the two theaters were given in a telegram sent to General Marshall on December 23, 1943:  In the early stages of Overlord I see no necessity for British and American Army Group Commanders. In fact, any such setup would be destructive of the essential coordination between Ground and Air Forces. When Army Group Commanders become necessary, I profoundly hope to designate an officer who has had combat experience in this War. My preference for American Army Group Commander, when more than one American Army is operating in Overlord, is General Bradley. One of his Army Commanders should probably be Patton; the other, a man that may be developed in Overlord operations or, alternatively, somebody like Hodges or Simpson, provided such officer could come over to United Kingdom at an early date and accompany Bradley through the early stag