on which she set out to sea. For the next week we lived in terror, fearing that the Axis might be able to plant across her path such a nest of submarines in the South Atlantic as to make it almost impossible for her to evade them completely. I do not remember whether General Marshall knew of this incident at the time, but it was the type of thing that we kept from him when possible. There was no use burdening his mind with the worries that we were forced to carry to bed with us. He had enough of his own.  rs — ie 7 a  SS re  Chapter 3 N COMMAND POST FOR MARSHALL  EARLY IN JANUARY 1942 THE chief of staff had announced a determination to reorganize the War Department for the efficient waging of war. Foreseeing that the War Department as set up under peacetime laws could not stand the strain of a long and bitter conflict, he had a year before assigned Colonel William K. Harrison to investigate its organizational weaknesses and search out a remedy for them. Although the studies were completed by early winter and a corrective plan tentatively adopted, the attack on Pearl Harbor delayed its execution. The task of actual reorganization was now placed in the hands of Major General Joseph T. McNarney, possessed of an analytical mind and a certain ruthlessness in execution which was absolutely necessary to uproot entrenched bureaucracy and streamline and simplify procedures.  At the same time it was evident that somewhere on the War Department level there would have to be an agency which could assemble and concentrate the sum total of strategic information for General Marshall's attention and through which, after he had reached a decision, his commands could be implemented. This agency, in other words, would be the Chief of Staff’s personal command post. The creation of the Operations Division of the War Department General Staff was the answer to this need; it replaced the War Plans Division, where I had succeeded General Gerow as assistant chief of staff on February 16. On M