as obvious that the quicker we could attack the more certain we would be that the German could not again reinforce his west front in an effort to avoid defeat.  Page 435 of 669 63%  eee ee eee en enw enn eee nn een nee ee ee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee ee ee ane eee amen ee en renee nn em eee ee ee NE ON NN, Ome Nee NN Ne NS Ne Ne NI NN I NANA NAN ED NN ENR ONDE AD BND ANAND ND Ne Deh Ne Nee BBN AEN OA Ne Ne NN Ne Be ONE END casualties in tanks, assault guns, planes, and motor transport. These we estimated at the time as 600 tanks and assault guns, 1,600 planes, and 6,000 other vehicles.!39! In the Ardennes battle our ground forces employed, for the first time in land battles, the new “proximity fuse.” It was an invention that added immensely to the effectiveness of our artillery.  Our own losses were high, with the 106th Infantry Division suffering the worst. Because of its exposed position it was not only in the fight from the start, but many men were isolated and captured. The 28th Division was likewise roughly handled and the 7th Armored took serious losses during its gallant defense of St. Vith. Altogether, we calculated our losses at a total of 77,000 men, of whom about 8,000 were killed, 48,000 wounded, and 21,000 captured or missing. Our tank and tank destroyer losses were 733.1401  The projected attack for February 8-10 was to be merely the beginning of a series of blows that we were planning to complete the destruction of the Germans west of the Rhine. I wanted to pass to the general offensive as quickly as possible because I was convinced that in the Battle of the Bulge the enemy had committed all of his remaining reserves. I counted on a greatly weakened resistance from that moment onward, both because of losses suffered by the Germans and because of the widespread discouragement that I felt sure would overtake his armies. Moreover—and this was very important—the Russians had opened their long-awaited and powerful winter offensive on January 12. Already we