Berlin, but when we reached there we discovered that there were questions which the Russians still considered unsettled.  The meeting was arranged for the middle of the afternoon and before it began I seized the opportunity to call at Marshal Zhukov’s headquarters to present him with the Chief Commander grade of the Legion of Merit, awarded him by the American Government. I thought Marshal Zhukov an affable and soldierly-appearing individual.  When I got back to my own temporary quarters in Berlin I found that there was an unexpected delay in convening the meeting, at which Marshal Zhukov was to act as host. This was annoying, as Ihad to return to Frankfurt that evening. Through the long afternoon hours we waited, but the English-speaking liaison officer from Zhukov’s headquarters could give us no explanation for the delay. Finally, late in the afternoon, I determined to force the issue. Because I knew that all the documents to be handled had been previously studied and revised by each of the governments concerned, I could see no valid reason for a delay that began to look deliberate. I therefore asked the liaison officer to inform Marshal Zhukov that, much to my regret, I should be forced to return to Frankfurt unless the meeting began within thirty minutes. However, just as the messenger was ready to depart word came that we were expected at the conference room, to which we all instantly repaired. The marshal tendered an explanation for the delay, saying that he had been awaiting final Moscow instructions on an important point. The rest of us accepted the statement in good part and the Berlin Council got off to a start in an atmosphere of friendly cordiality.  The circular conference table was the largest I have ever seen. Each national delegation was assigned a ninety-degree quadrant at the table. The commanders were surrounded by a crowd of military and political assistants, photographers, newsmen, and others who seemed merely to be present. My political adviser