the German Air Force and because also we knew that the enemy could not have anti-aircraft in sufficient quantities to cover, on short notice, every critical spot in the transportation system of France. The plan had to be so arranged that it did not, by its general pattern, reveal the area selected for assault. Consequently, in furtherance of our deception plans, we invariably chose some targets in the Calais area for heavy bombing simultaneously with every critical raid.  ISO DESTRUCTION OF KEY BRIDGES AND RAIL CENTERS WOULD SEVER THE GERMAN  SUPPLY AND REINFORCEMENT ARTERIES  100 MILES 200 300 SS ANTWERP  BRUSSELS  ARRAS AMIENS  oe  Page 275 of 669 41%  ation, and the wide variety of measures we took for convincing him were given extraordinary credence by his Intelligence division.  The complementary attack against southern France had long been considered—by General Marshall and me, at least—as an integral and necessary feature of the main invasion across the Channel. In the planning of early 1944, I supposed that all principal commanders and the Combined Chiefs of Staff were solidly together on this point. Our studies in London, however, soon demonstrated that, even with a June date of attack, the Allies did not have enough landing craft and other facilities to mount simultaneously both the cross-Channel and the Mediterranean attacks in the strength we  wanted.  The United States was at that time committed to offensive action in the Pacific and the necessary additional craft could not be diverted from that theater. In the face of this, General Montgomery proposed the complete abandonment of the attack on southern France, which then had the code name of Anvil. He wrote to me on February 21, 1944: “I recommend very strongly that we now throw  the whole weight of our opinion into the scales against Anvil.”[22! I refused to go along  with this view.|23] But it became clear that there was no other recourse except to delay the southern attack for a  sufficient time to p