lU TET dl LALIB UES LIAVE SULIE LOU Lal ALI VELULE 1s 105585 LlAVE DECULIIE CACESOIVE It Call, with the assimilation of new recruits, be ready for re-entry into battle far sooner than one that has been kept in line too long. Moreover, the periodic rests for the front-line soldier have a splendid effect upon morale—and in any kind of warfare troop morale is always a decisive factor.  Early in the North African campaign it became evident that the emotional stamina and spiritual strength of the individual soldier were as important in battle success as his weapons and training. Combat neuroses among the troops developed on an alarming scale as the intensity of our offensives increased.  At the war’s beginning the average Army officer, both regular and civilian, placed too much faith in a surface discipline based solely upon perfection in the mechanics of training. Commanders are habitually diffident where they are called upon to deal with subjects that touch the human soul—aspirations, ideals, inner beliefs, affection, hatreds. No matter how earnestly commanders may attempt to influence a soldier’s habits, his training, his conduct, or extoll the virtues of gallantry and fortitude, they shyly stop short of going into matters which they fear may be interpreted as “preaching.”  A profound understanding of philosophy is not necessarily a part of the equipment of a successful military leader. Yet as certainly as a national army neglects the need for a simple, commonly held understanding of the nation’s welfare and the individual’s relationship to the whole, so certainly will victory be attained only at added cost and by so much will victory itself be jeopardized.  No proof of the subject’s importance is needed by those who visited both the hospitals and reclassification centers in the rear of an army and the combat lines at the front. In the combat regions a visitor was invariably inspired by the capacity of the Allied soldier to perform his duty quietly and efficiently, en