iled memorandum which I still have. In it appears the notation, “We are slowed up in eastern sector when we should be getting toward B6éne-Bizerte at once.”  < z (2) E <q a)  MEDITERRANEAN #2 SE  Page 118 of 669 18%  iinsisted on using an interpreter, to avoid any chance of misunderstanding. When we had worn out more expert ones, General Clark volunteered to act 1n this capacity, and thougn Ne 1s far from fluent in the language, we made out fairly well. One reason for this was that after the first hour of talk each of us merely repeated, over and over again, the arguments he had first presented. When, finally, General Giraud went off to bed there was no sign of his modifying, in any degree, his original demands. His good-night statement was, “Giraud will be a spectator in this affair.” He agreed, however, to meet me at the governor general’s house the next morning. The political faces in our headquarters that night were long.  Before stopping work for the night I sent to the Combined Chiefs of Staff a detailed account of the conference and was grateful to receive prompt word from them that they fully supported my position.!8! The ending of the message was garbled but we could make out, “Our only regret is that you have been forced to devote so much of your time to this purpose during a period...” How fortu- nate I was that I could not foresee just how much of my time in ensuing weeks would be taken up with irritating and frustrating conferences on North African political affairs!  Fortunately a night’s sleep did something to change General Giraud’s mind and at the next morning’s meeting he decided to participate on the basis we desired.!2! I promised that if he were successful in winning French support I would deal with him as the administrator of that region, pending eventual opportunity for civil authorities to determine the will of the population.  In further talks with General Giraud it developed that there was a radical difference between his conception and min