wind direction was generally from the west it was the southern beaches for which we were anxious. The eastern beaches would have the shelter of the island itself.  I spent some hours with Admiral Cunningham in his office, to which meteorological specialists brought frequent reports and forecasts. Naval personnel has a habit of referring to wind velocity in terms of “Force.” In would come a man and say, “Force IV, sir,” or “Force V, sir.” For me this had to be translated into miles per hour, but I had no difficulty, watching Cunningham’s face, in realizing that Force V was worse than Force IV. However, falling velocities were predicted for sundown and this cheered us, because if that tendency continued conditions by midnight should be satisfactory!  Some of us went outside for a short walk, but we watched the wind indicators fearfully, almost prayerfully, because the hour was fast approaching when it would be impossible to turn back assaulting forces from their intended landings. A message came from General Marshall: “Is the attack on or off?” My reaction was that I wish I knew! Evening approached with predictions indicating some slight improvement. We decided to proceed as planned, and I so radioed to General Marshall.!261 My feeling was that, even if the forces on the southern coast should find it necessary to delay land- ing, those on the east would surely get ashore and we would have less confusion and disadvantage than would result from any attempt to stop the whole armada.  But the evening wore on and the wind velocity increased alarmingly. There was nothing we could do but pray, desperately.  y Chapter 10  SICILY AND SALERNO SS  THE FIRST TROOPS SCHEDULED TO reach the Island were the airborne contingents. The route of some of these lay directly across Malta and a number of us went out on the hilltops to watch them pass. In the wind and storm it was difficult for them to keep direction. Our plotting board in the air operations room showed that many planes and t