el oil. By this time the enemy was getting into precarious position with respect to this vital item of supply. The orders to the heavy bombers were to keep pounding all sources of oil, refineries, and distribution systems to the limit of their ability. This tactic had a great effect not only generally upon the entire warmaking power of Germany but also directly upon the front. Every German commander had always to calculate his plans in terms of availability of fuel, and it was to our advantage to keep pound- ing away to increase the enemy’s embarrassment.  ARNHEM >  @ MUNSTER  7 MUNCHEN-  e @ SGLADBACH  x  aS  MANNHEIM 4 Ltr  Page 400 of 669 58%  WUE LEASES LUE UCR, CU RUSLALTLEL LAID Add LULL ABGAIIOL LILES ULIMESS WELLE VAOCUM MMU LE CULOIUOELALIUIIS UL PLIULILY ALI CALOCLIVELIC OS. 2 UCOLLUY LICL ELY A LOW Wao Us ALLIS UNOS, £4 LULL UL CWELIL Yr ola major bridges, it was reported to me at that time, spanned the river; some twenty of them would have to be rendered useless or the effort would be only partially effective. Even with the best of flying conditions the task would require a prolonged and heavy bombing effort. But at that period of the year in Europe there rarely occurs a day of sufficiently good weather to allow pinpoint bombing from great heights, and enemy anti-aircraft was still so strong and so efficient that low-flying bombing was far too expensive. Consequently the only method we could employ against the bridges was blind bombing, through the clouds. The Air Staff calculated that destruction of the bulk of the bridges would require vastly more time and bomb tonnage than we could afford to divert from other vitally important purposes.  One of the greatest of these other purposes was to deplete Germany’s reserves of fuel oil. By this time the enemy was getting into precarious position with respect to this vital item of supply. The orders to the heavy bombers were to keep pounding all sources of oil, refineries, and distribution systems to the limit o