st of Sicily we had been engaged in a new type of task, that of providing government for a conquered population. Specially trained “civil affairs officers,” some American, some British, accompanied the assault forces and continuously pushed forward to take over from combat troops the essential task of controlling the civil population.  The American contingent had been trained in the school established at Charlottesville, Virginia. Later, groups of both British and American military government officers received further training in North Africa. They operated under the general supervision of a special section of my headquarters.|371  Public health, conduct, sanitation, agriculture, industry, transport, and a hundred other activities, all normal to community life, were supervised and directed by these officers. Their task was difficult but vastly important, not merely from a humanitarian viewpoint, but to the success of our armies. Every command needs peace and order in its rear; otherwise it must detach units to pre- serve signal and road communications, protect dumps and convoys, and suppress underground activity.  The job was new to us but in spite of natural mistakes it was splendidly done. We gained experience and learned lessons for similar and greater tasks still lying ahead of us in Italy and Germany.  y Chapter 11  CAIRO CONFERENCE cc  WHILE THE SUMMER AND FALL fighting was in full swing we received word that the President and the Prime Minister and their staffs were preparing to hold another joint meeting, this time near Cairo.l11 Egypt was not then within the limits of our theater, but aside from insuring safe passages through our area we were called upon to provide secure places for preliminary meetings and for the accommodation of individuals. The usual swarm of United States Secret Service men preceded the President into every locality where he was expected to stop even briefly. They began with my staff the reconnaissance work that was intended to guarant