n public associ-  Page 115 of 669 17%  AAC TIO UIE GUILE tile Wal G1C 1 CAPETICIICE a ELEAter Sese Of Leuer Cllal) Willer, UPON Ue LOMOW IIE MOTs, 1 LECeiVeC a Inleaser LEpore LO Tile e1lect Ullal DEaCl) COMCILIONS Were fot tOO Dad alld thle Casablanca landing was proceeding as planned.!2! I said a prayer of thanksgiving; my greatest fear had been dissipated.  An unexpected difficulty involved radio communication. In the early stages of the campaign the Allied Headquarters would have to depend exclusively upon the radio for communication with the several expeditions, and it was little short of dismaying to find that our radios constantly functioned poorly, sometimes not at all. The trouble was attributed largely to the overloading of the naval channels on our headquarters ships and of the signal center at Gibraltar. But whatever the cause, the result was that I determined to move headquarters to the mainland as quickly as possible.  Our first battle contact report was disappointing. The USS Thomas Stone, proceeding in convoy toward Algiers and carrying a reinforced battalion of American troops, was torpedoed on November 7, only one hundred and fifty miles from its destination.!3! Details were lacking and there existed the possibility of a very considerable loss of life. Though our good fortune to this point had been amazing, this did not lessen our anxiety for the men aboard. We could get no further information of their fate that evening but later we learned that the incident had a happy outcome so far as the honor of American arms was concerned. Casualties were few and the ship itself was not badly damaged. There was no danger of sinking. Yet officers and men, unwilling to wait quietly until the ship could be towed to a convenient port, cheered the decision of the commander!4! to take to the boats in an attempt to reach, on time, the assault beach to which they were assigned. Heavy weather, making up during the afternoon, foiled their gallant purpose and they had t