oes it.  Once the recruit of 1941 was inducted into the service the military leader had to shoulder almost exclusive responsibility for imparting such an understanding, but there was implied a glaring deficiency in our country’s educational processes. It seemed to me that constant stressing of the individual rights and privileges of American citizenship had overshadowed the equally important truth that such individualism can be sustained only so long as the citizen accepts his full responsibility for the welfare of the nation that protects him in the exercise of these rights.  Belief in an underlying cause is fully as important to success in war as any local esprit or discipline induced or produced by whatever kind of command or leadership action. Cromwell’s “Ironsides” marched into battle singing hymns. Their iron discipline was matched by an inner conviction that never deserted them in any kind of dramatic crisis.  Grosvenor Square, where our headquarters and the American Embassy were located, through the soldier’s love of nicknames soon became “Eisenhowerplatz,” and was so referred to, at times, in the press.  This was merely amusing, but the location made it difficult to lead a quiet personal life. British hospitality and the presence in London of a number of American friends combined to bring me innumerable invitations of all kinds. Finally, to avoid the inescapable incidents of hotel life, I moved my personal quarters to a quiet little cottage on the edge of the city. I lived there with my naval aide, Commander Harry C. Butcher, and my orderly, Sergeant Michael McKeogh. Two Negro soldiers, Sergeants John Moaney and John Hunt, joined us to take care of the house and a simple mess. They stayed with me throughout the war.  From July onward I did not, during the war, accept any invitations except from the Prime Minister or from members of the American or British armed services. These always had business as their primary object.  Visits to the troops had not yet as