two months ago and just got back from the hospital yesterday. I don’t feel so good!”  “Well,” I said to him, “you and I are a good pair then, because I’m nervous too. But we’ve planned this attack for a long time and we've got all the planes, the guns, and airborne troops we can use to smash the Germans. Maybe if we just walk along together to the river we'll be good for each other.”  “Oh,” he said, “I meant I was nervous; I’m not any more. I guess it’s not so bad around here.” And I knew what he meant.  Our preparations for the crossing north of the Ruhr had been so deliberately and thoroughly made that the enemy knew what was coming. We anticipated strong resistance, since we would achieve surprise only by the timing and strength of the assault. In particular we thought that the enemy would have a great number of guns trained on the river and the eastern banks and would attempt to stop our troops at the water’s edge with gunfire.  This kind of resistance, however, was not encountered. The two American divisions making the assault on the Ninth Army front, the 30th and the 79th, suffered a total of only thirty-one casualties during the actual crossing. The divisions were under the command of General Anderson of the XVI Corps.!3!  Throughout the remainder of the night we received a series of encouraging reports. Everywhere the landings appeared completely successful. We were encouraged to believe that we could very quickly achieve such an eastward advance that the communications leading into the Ruhr would be cut.  With the arrival of daylight I went to a convenient hill from which to witness the arrival of the airborne units, which were scheduled to begin their drop at ten o'clock. The airborne troops were carried to the assault in a total of 1,572 planes and 1,326 gliders; 889 fighter planes escorted them during the flight, and 2,153 other fighters provided cover over the target area and established a de- fensive screen to the eastward.|4!  Fog and the smoke of the