s; and that the Mediterranean, at least along its southern shores, could be used by the convoys of the Allied nations, thus eliminating the long route around the Cape of Good Hope to reach both the Middle East and India.  Curiously enough, it was believed by some officers that even if we succeeded in driving Rommel out of Africa we would not be able to use the Mediterranean because the Germans would still have aircraft in south Europe. One lieutenant general of the United States Army had been convinced from the beginning of the war that any hope of using the Mediterranean was completely illusory. Even before I went to London he several times urged me to resist the attempt, which he labeled as “idiocy.” This pessimistic attitude was flatly repudiated by the Navy, particularly by the British Navy, which insisted that, given some land-based fighter craft along the north coast of Africa, they would guarantee to put the convoys through the Mediterranean without abnormal loss.  Immediately the decision to invade North Africa had been taken, General Marshall and Admiral King left for Washington and I remained in command of the American forces in the European theater. But I now had the additional task of organizing and leading an Allied force into northwest Africa.  We were definitely embarked upon the type of Allied problem that would engage my attention and that of my close associates for the remainder of the war.  Page 82 of 669 12%  base. Next, it was expected that through an advance to the eastward Malta would be succored. The final hope expressed at that early date was that all North Africa might be cleared of the Axis; and that the Mediterranean, at least along its southern shores, could be used by the convoys of the Allied nations, thus eliminating the long route around the Cape of Good Hope to reach both the Middle East and India.  Curiously enough, it was believed by some officers that even if we succeeded in driving Rommel out of Africa we would not be able to us