, particularly in the Battle of Britain, but had not theretofore been in charge of air operations requiring close co-operation with ground troops.  As on my first arrival in London in June 1942, I found headquarters staffs concentrated in the heart of the city, but this time I determined I would not be defeated in my plan to find a suitable site somewhere in the countryside. I found one, and there were protests and gloomy predictions. Once concentrated in the Bushey Park area, however, we quickly developed a family relationship that far more than made up for minor inconveniences due to distance from the seat of Britain’s administrative organization.l11 My headquarters was officially called Supreme Headquarters, Allied Expedition-  Page 259 of 669 38%  rr: Pas a“  “a — . rr i —_  ee ae  As I left the President I said, “I sincerely trust that you will quickly recover from your indisposition.” He quickly replied, “Oh, I have not felt better in years. I’m in bed only because the doctors are afraid I might have a relapse if I get up too soon.” I never saw him again.  During my short stay in the United States I had a treasured opportunity of going with my wife to see our son at West Point. Later I made a hasty trip to see my mother and brothers, my wife's parents, and a few other members of our families, all gathered for the occasion in the town of Manhattan, Kansas. These family visits were a rejuvenating experience—until then I had not fully realized how far war tends to carry its participants away from the interests, objectives, and concerns of normal life.  Of course my temporary removal from the preoccupations of war was far from complete. Telegrams arrived periodically from London, posing most serious questions and in certain instances asking me to make final determinations before I personally could familiarize myself with all the factors in the problem. However, I was pleased to find that Montgomery was definitely working on a plan for a five-division assault front