eparing to withdraw the whole force. This was actually not the case. General Clark and General Richard L. McCreery, com- manding the British 10 Corps, never once faltered in their determination.  When General Clark led the Fifth Army into Salerno he had not previously participated in any of the fighting of World War II. He proved to be a fine battle leader and fully justified the personal confidence that had impelled me to assign him to such an important position. Later in the war, when General Alexander became the supreme commander in the Mediterranean, Clark was advanced to army group commander in Italy, an appointment which obviously meant that both British and American authorities were well satisfied with his performance.  Continued reports and reconnaissance on the thirteenth furnished the details of the German attack, and that day Air Chief Marshal Tedder was ordered to concentrate the full strength of his air force, to include every plane that could fly, in an attack upon sensitive spots in the German formations.!29l This great air attack was delivered with precision and effectiveness on the morning of the fourteenth. So badly did it disrupt the enemy’s communications, supplies, and mobility that, with the aid of naval gunfire, the ground troops regained the initiative and thereafter German counter- attacks were never in sufficient strength to threaten our general position.  But the hard fighting was not yet over. The two great initial objectives of the Italian invasion were the capture, first, of Naples as a satisfactory port from which to supply our troops, and, second, of the airfields at Foggia from which to supplement the air bombardment of central Europe, which up to that moment had been conducted almost exclusively from the British bases.  On the sixteenth I went to Salerno to examine into circumstances that seemed to indicate some lack of skill on the part of one or more of the American commanders. After careful investigation I felt it necessary to ap