od of six weeks. His reputation was that of a notorious collaborator with Hitler, but during the time that he served as the administrator of French North Africa he never once, to our knowledge, violated any commitment or promise. On the other hand, his mannerisms and personality did not inspire confidence and in view of his reputa- tion we were always uneasy in dealing with him. In any event, his death presented me with new problems.  While it was known, of course, that the person in the French Government I trusted most was General Giraud, my headquarters was still in no position to sponsor a puppet government. Such a resort to Nazi methods would have been a far more serious violation of the principles for which we were fighting than would the mere temporary acceptance of some individual whose past record was, from our viewpoint, distasteful. Moreover, in our inner councils we doubted Giraud’s ability to establish himself firmly in the chief position—but no one else was both acceptable and immedidyely available. Without delay the French local officials named General Giraud as the temporary administrator of North Africa to succeed Darlan.|25! Giraud visited my headquarters and his first request was that I “cease treating North Africa as a conquered territory and treat it more as the ally which it was trying to become.” This attitude, on the part of one who, I thought, understood our motives so well, was something of a shock.  The governor in Algeria, Chatel, was a weakling who held the trust of none of us. He and General Nogués were two individuals we were determined to get rid of quickly, even though in the case of the latter General Patton constantly insisted that he was working effectively for the Allies in Morocco. My own belief was that General Nogués might co-operate with us as long as he thought we were winning but at the first sign of weakness he would unhesitatingly turn against us. Darlan had met every expression of our dissatisfaction with these two men by