n be waged effectively by a coalition of nations. Historic difficulties had been overcome and the grave doubts that had existed on this point even as late as the fall of 1942 had been completely dispelled. Governments and their subsidiary economic, political, and military organizations had combined into one great effort in which no major difficulty could be traced to diverging national interest.  Allied effectiveness in World War II established for all time the feasibility of developing and employing joint control machinery that can meet the sternest tests of war. The key to the matter is a readiness, on highest levels, to adjust all nationalistic differences that affect the strategic employment of combined resources, and, in the war theater, to designate a single commander who is supported to the limit. With these two things done, success rests in the vision, the leadership, the skill, and the judgment of the professionals making up command and staff groups; if these two things are not done, only failure can result.  Tn World War Tl Amarica and Craat Rritain urhaca farrac faucht cida hu cidain en manw hattlac nf tha araiund caa and air undarctand and annliad thacatruthe In tha latar ctacac nf tha urar Franch  Page 534 of 669 77%  The task of penetrating and breaking through such fortifications presented the most serious, almost terrifying, problems to the attacking troops. Nothing is easy in war. Mistakes are always paid for in casualties and troops are quick to sense any blunder made by their commanders. Even though in the winter of 1945 some stretches of the Siegfried were held by hastily formed and inadequately trained defensive troops, its penetration on a large scale and the practical obliteration of the defending forces was a tribute not only to the extraordinary fighting qualities of the Allied soldiers and units, but to the determination and professional skill of their divisional, corps, army, and army group commanders.  The Allied Force that stood on the E