ed the more it became clear that the plan arrived at through weeks and months of development was still applicable, even though the immediate conditions under which it would be executed did not conform to the detailed possibilities we had projected into the operation. Consequently I decided that we would thrust forward on our right to a point of junction with General Devers’ forces, which we believed would be in the region of Dijon, while on the left Montgomery would be ordered to push forward as rapidly as possible, to make certain of securing a line that would adequately cover Antwerp. Bradley directed Hodges’ First Army to advance abreast of the British formations, roughly in the general direction of Aachen, so as to make cer- tain of success on our left./3!  We hoped that this northeastward thrust would go so rapidly and that the collapse of the German would be so great that we might even gain, before the inevitable halt came about, a bridgehead over the Rhine which would immediately threaten the Ruhr.  It was under this general plan that the battling of the succeeding weeks took place.  While affairs on the front of the Twelfth and Twenty-first Army Groups were proceeding in such satisfactory fashion, Lieutenant General Alexander M. Patch’s Seventh Army was achieving remarkable results in the south of France.|4!  At the conference of Allied war leaders at Teheran, in late 1943, the Western Allies had informed Generalissimo Stalin that a secondary movement into the south of France would be an integral part of our invasion across the Channel to establish the second front in Europe. However, in early 1944 the Allies were waging one campaign in Italy and were planning for the great adventure of Overlord. During all the first half of 1944, therefore, it was impossible for General Wilson, commanding in the Mediterranean, to secure estimates of what might be available for the Dragoon attack.  My decision in January that the Overlord attack must be carried out on a fron