uncil I had noted that, whereas Zhukov frequently seemed to be in agreement with some logical proposal of local im- port, he could apparently never give an immediate answer on his own authority. This led me to explore the remote possibility that I might be able to do something about it.  Knowing that everything my associates and I did and said was reported instantly to Moscow, and knowing also that national pride would impel the Russians to watch the comparative prestige and authority of their Berlin representative, I had adopted a simple plan which I hoped would have some effect. It was merely to take occasion, whenever possible, to make sure that Marshal Zhukov was aware of the degree of independence accorded me by my Washington superiors in dealing with all matters that did not violate approved policy. Whenever I had anything to discuss with Marshal Zhukov I made an opportunity to see him, usually just before or after a formal meeting of the Berlin Council. I then outlined the suggestion, which normally served the best interests of the Russians as well as of ourselves, and placed it before him in terms of a definite proposal. Then I would remark rather casually: “If this project looks well to you, I am ready to put it into effect whenever you say. If you want some time for study, or if you would like to refer the matter to Moscow, I am quite content to await your answer. But I am ready to act instantly.”  Once or twice he was fortunately prompted to ask: “What will your government say about this?” to which I would reply, “If I sent such small details to Washington for decision I would be fired and my government would get someone who would handle these things himself.”  Whether or not this personal campaign had any effect I do not know, but as time went on Marshal Zhukov began to exhibit a greater independence in action than he had at first been able to exercise. He discarded the practice of keeping his political adviser by his side and we would meet with no one p