al base from which to launch the attack was that the transatlantic journey from New York was shortest when terminated in the United Kingdom. This would permit the most rapid turn-around of ships and would utilize the great British ports, already constructed and in good working order. Selection of this base would save shipping in another way. The U-boat packs then infesting the North Atlantic could best be combated by means of heavy escorts.!10! No matter what line of military operations might be selected, we still had to keep open Britain’s life line.  For her minimum existence needs she had to import something between twenty and twenty-five million tons per year—her peacetime imports were over fifty million—and a considerable portion of this amount came from the United States.[11| This line, therefore, had to be maintained, and by placing our troops and military cargo convoys on the same route we could achieve a greater safety from the U-boat until such time as that menace could be nullified.  By comparison with other possible avenues of approach, considering the need for concentration, quick access to the heart of the enemy country, avoidance of impassable terrain obstacles, and rapidity of build-up, the best choice was invasion of northwest Europe, using England as a base.  All these things were so obvious as to be axiomatic; there was no quarrel. But from that point on we encountered the obstacle on which all discussions split and practically exploded in our faces. This was a very definite conviction, held by some of our experienced soldiers, sailors, and airmen, that the fortified coast of western Europe could not be successfully attacked. Already much was known of the tremendous effort the German was making to insure integrity of his Atlantic wall. Moreover, a considerable amount of the German Air Force could still be disposed in those areas, and important elements of his fleet were lying in the harbors of northern France, in Norway, and in the Baltic Sea. The