ve because of the nature of the terrain along the Enfidaville line. At the same time we confidently believed that the German would expect the main attack to be delivered by the Eighth Army, since that organization had established a brilliant reputation in its long pursuit across the Western Desert and the enemy would naturally expect us to use it for our knockout punch.  In the conviction, therefore, that the enemy would in any event keep strong forces in front of the Eighth Army, General Alexander quickly and secretly brought around from that flank several of the Eighth Army’s best divisions and attached them to the British First Army. These arrangements were completed in time to begin the final assault on May 5/44!  The results were speedily decisive. On the left the American II Corps, with some detachments of French “Goumiers,” advanced magnificently through tough going and captured Bizerte on the seventh. Just to the southward the British First Army, under General Anderson, carrying out the main effort, was in Tunis at approximately the same time that the II Corps reached Bizerte.  During the final days of the Tunisian campaign two local battles in the north, one in the British sector and one in the American, gripped the interest of the entire theater. Both positions were  Page 183 of 669 27%  @ FERIANA  a KAY “ile MAKNASSY  . AN  SPRING OFFENSIVE  IN TUNISIA » FRONT LINE MAR. 21  At this time I made another change in the command of the II Corps. Major General  qualifications, he had gained much experience during the March and early April fighting. The compelling Headquarters and finish preparations for the Sicilian invasion, which was to take place as soon as possib  APR.IO-SFAX,  Omar N. Bradley  had reported to me in late February as an “inspector.” Aside from his outstanding personal reason for the change was to give General Patton the opportunity to go back to Seventh Army e after the completion of the African campaign. A second and less important reason, a