honse Pierre Juin.  Always in the back of our minds was the need for haste in getting on to the Tunis area. On the night of the eighth I scrawled a penciled memorandum which I still have. In it appears the notation, “We are slowed up in eastern sector when we should be getting toward Béne-Bizerte at once.”  PORTUGAL  “s Ze (2) a ¢< 7)  AM hiwNG Ade  NOV.15 / \ ?  Page 122 of 669 18%  r) e Ni iw CONSTANTINE  SOUK-AHRAS  LANDINGS IN NORTH AFRICA  NOV. 8-15, 1942 Y AIRBORNE LANDINGS  At Oran we got ashore, but the French forces in that region, particularly the naval elements, resisted bitterly.1111 Some hard fighting ensued and the U.S. 1st Division, which was later to travel such a long battle road in this war, got its first taste of conflict. In spite of incomplete training, the 1st Division, supported by elements of the 1st Armored Division, made progress and on November 9 we knew we would soon be able to report victory in that area. On the tenth all fighting ceased at Oran.|121 Generals Fredendall and Terry de la M. Allen met their initial battle tests in good fashion.  We knew that the attack on the west coast was launched, but there was no news of its progress. Actually at certain points, notably Port Lyautey, fierce fighting developed.!13| The treacherous sea had given us the one quiet day in the month necessary to make the landing feasible, but the period of calm lasted only a short time and later reinforcing was most difficult. I tried every possible means to get in communication with the western commanders, Rear Admiral H. K. Hewitt of the Navy and General Patton of the Army. The radio again failed and gave us nothing but unintelligible signals. Thereupon we tried sending light bomber craft to Casablanca to gain contact, but after French fighters had shot down several of them we knew that this method was futile. In desperation I asked Admiral Cunningham if he had a fas p in port. By good fortune one of the speediest afloat was then at Gibraltar getting up ste