om my admiration was and is profound. I still believe that if Mr. Baruch’s recommendations for universal price fixing and his organizational plans had been completely and promptly adopted in December 1941 this country would have saved billions in money—possibly much in time and therefore in lives.  From tasks such as these I had gone, in 1935, to the Philippines. Now, six years later, I was back in the War Department, the nation was at war, and the Philippines were in deadly danger.  So I began my concentration on General Marshall’s question. Our naval situation in the western Pacific, as outlined by the Chief of Staff, was at that moment completely depressing. The fleet could not attempt any aggressive action far from a secure base and dared not venture with surface vessels into Philippine waters. The clamor of ground and air commanders in Hawaii and on the West Coast for defensive strength—clamors emphasized in hysterical terms by mayors, city councils, and congressmen—would, if answered, have absorbed far more than all United States shipping, troops, and immediately available anti-aircraft force then in existence.  It was painfully clear that the Philippines themselves could not, at that time, be reinforced directly by land and sea forces. Any hope of sending major reinforcements into the islands had to be based upon such future rehabilitation of our Navy as would permit it to operate safely in the Philippines area. At the moment there was no way of estimating when this could be done.  J 4 yy YY Y  YY CULL: yy Yu Yy  “ A AN  Yy Y  Uy  Page 18 of 669 TI  (AAU TIBI, Me sald, alla i Wad GIsilissea. Significantly and characteristically, he did not even hint at one of the most important factors in the problem: the psychological effects of the Philippine battle upon people in the United States and throughout the Pacific. Clearly he felt that anyone stupid enough to overlook this consideration had no business wearing the star of a brigadier general.  Itook my problem to