enemy had brought up too much strength. The chance for a coup de main passed, if it ever had existed. Thereafter the northward path of the Eighth Army was fully as difficult from the terrain viewpoint as was the eastward advance on the left of the Seventh Army. In addition the Eighth Army had to overcome the preponderance of enemy strength. On the cliffs facing the sea just to the eastward of Mount Etna, I saw an almost incredible feat of field engineering. The road, completely blown away through a gap of two hundred yards, presented nothing but a sheer cliff hundreds of feet in height. Across this gap the engineers built a trestle capable of supporting the heaviest army loads; it was another example of what troops in the field can do when they are faced with stark necessity.  Nevertheless, again there cropped up criticisms of Montgomery’s “caution,” which I had first heard among pressmen and airmen when he was conducting his long pursuit of Rommel across the desert. Criticism is easy—an unsuccessful attack brings cries of “butcher” just as every pause brings wails of “timidity.” Such charges are unanswerable because proof or refutation is impossible. In war about the only criterion that can be applied to a commander is his accumulated record of victory and defeat. If regularly successful, he gets credit for his skill, his judgment as to the possible and the impossible, and his leadership. Those critics of Montgomery who assert that he sometimes failed to attain the maximum must at least admit that he never once sustained a major defeat. In this particular instance I went over all details carefully, both with Montgomery and with Alexander. I believed then, and believe now, that a headlong attack against the Mount Etna position, with the re- sources available in the middle of July, would have been defeated. And it is well to remember that caution and timidity are not synonymous, just as boldness and rashness are not!  Among the American leaders, Bradley had done so w