, who had to descend to the bottom to disarm the mines. The work of the mine sweepers and the deep-sea divers in Cherbourg Harbor was dramatic and courageous.|101  During the twenty days required by the U.S. VII Corps to capture Cherbourg, the fighting was continuous throughout the remainder of the front, with only local gains anywhere, and almost stalemate in the Caen sector. The sketch shows our lines on June 12 and 26  Page 311 of 669 46%  weather. We in the field wanted to capture the areas from which these weapons were fired against southern England. However, it must be said to the credit of the British leaders that never once did one of them urge me to vary any detail of my planned operations merely for the purpose of eliminating this scourge.  On June 18, Montgomery still felt that conditions permitted the early capture of Caen. His directive of that date stated: “It is clear that we must now capture Caen and Cherbourg, as the first step in the full development of our plans. Caen is really the key to Cherbourg....” In the same directive he gave the following instructions to the British Army: “The immediate task of this Army will be to cap- ture Caen.” The final sentence of that order was: “I shall hope to see both Caen and Cherbourg captured by June 24.”  On the left the German armor and defensive strength continued to defeat our intentions, but the port of Cherbourg fell on June 26, just twenty days after the landing. General Collins had conducted against it a relentless offensive and as a result of the operation justified his nickname, “Lightning Joe.” The final assault was materially assisted by heavy and accurate naval gunfire.  In the matter of luck we had enjoyed a rough medium between Bradley’s minimum and maximum estimates of the influence of this imponderable factor. Our good luck was largely represented in the degree of surprise that we achieved by landing on Utah Beach, which the Germans considered unsuited to major amphibious operations, and by th