felt increasingly the strangulation on movement imposed by our inadequate lines of communication. The Services of Supply had made heroic and effective effort to keep us going to the last possible minute. They installed systems of truck transport by taking over main-road routes in France and using most of these for one-way traffic. These were called Red Ball Highways, on which trucks kept running continuously. Every vehicle ran at least twenty hours a day. Relief drivers were scraped up from every unit that could provide them and the vehicles themselves were al- lowed to halt only for necessary loading, unloading, and servicing.  Railway engineers worked night and day to repair broken bridges and track and to restore the operational efficiency of rolling stock. Gasoline and fuel oil were brought onto the Continent by means  of flexible pipe lines laid under the English Channel. From the beaches the gas and oil were pumped forward to main distribution points through pipe lines laid on the surface of the gr engineers built landing strips at amazing speed, and throughout the organization there was displayed a morale and devotion to duty equal to that of any fighting unit in the whole comnt PLAN AND PERFORMANCE WHEN PERFORMANCE QUTSTRIPPED PREDICTION, SUPPLY LINES STRETCHED THIN.  mumean PREDICTED LINE eum ACTUAL LINE fe) 50 100 )6=— MILES 200 300 —S ——— ———SS—T———=_ fF,  PORTSMOUTH  nd. Aviation  54%  ortunes and oc onal emergencies of the campaig  We in Bomber Command pro 7 ly our congratulations and our thanks, but our utmost service wherever and whenever the need arises. I hope indeed that we may continue the task together to its completion in our respecti  Yours ever  Bert  All along the front we felt increasingly the strangulation on movement imposed by our inadequate lines of communication. The Services of Supply had made heroic and effective effort to keep us going to the last possible minute. They installed systems of truck transport by taking over main-road rou