efused to write or speak about the matter is proved by the fact that two of the press representatives who made a detailed report to me of the affair returned to the United States within a few days after the occurrence. They were then no longer under the direct or indirect influence of Allied Headquarters. They were Demaree Bess and Quentin Reynolds.  However, the aftermath connected with this episode temporarily strained our usually splendid relations with the press. When, months later, the story finally reached Washington via the gossip route, a great public uproar immediately followed its broadcast by a commentator. To play fair with the pressmen in our own headquarters, my chief of staff decided to hold an informal press confer- ence to supply any details of information that they might lack. My only instructions to him were, “Tell the full truth.”  During this later conference a question was posed concerning disciplinary action against Patton, and the chief of staff replied that no reprimand had been administered, which was correct technically, since the reprimand had not been recorded in the official files. But it was factually wrong, and immediately the conference was over a reporter called me on the phone to protest what he called “the shabby treatment of the press.” Instantly I issued orders for correction. But the damage was done and the story already in America; and this only ten minutes later! The chief of staff ruefully regretted his error; his self-blame was so great that it was clear he’d never again be guilty of that kind of error. Moreover, it emphasized to both of us the speed with which newspapermen acted. In deal- ing with them we plainly had to be right the first time.1Z]  After the incident was all over my old friend George sent me a long letter in which the following appeared: “I am at a loss to find words with which to express my chagrin and grief at having given you, aman to whom I owe everything and for whom I would gladly lay down my life, c