eliberately turn away from the exploitation of the enemy’s weakness does not appear sound. The single objective should be quick and complete victory. While recognizing there are factors not of direct concern to SCAEF, the U.S. Chiefs consider his strategic con- cept is sound and should receive full support. He should continue to communicate freely with the Commander in Chief of the Soviet Army.!271  Later, on April 7, I included the following in my final radio on the subject to General Marshall:  Page 477 of 669 69%  of a Nazi fortress in southern Germany. Naturally, my plans are flexible and I must retain freedom of action to meet changing situations. Maximum flexibility will result from a concentration of maximum force in the center.|26!  An interesting sidelight on the foregoing telegram is that it was originally drafted, in my headquarters, by one of my British assistants.  From Marshall to Eisenhower, dated March 31:  British Chiefs of Staff sent from London to Combined Chiefs today their views on your plan.  They deny any desire to fetter the hand of the Supreme Commander in the field but mention wider issues outside the purvue of SCAEF (U-boat war, Swedish shipping, political importance of saving thousands of Dutchmen from starvation, importance of move into Denmark and liberating Norway) and request delay in the submission of further details to Deane [head of the Military Mission in Moscow] until you hear from the CCS.  The U.S. Chiefs replied today in substance as follows: SCAEF’s procedure in communicating with the Russians appears to have been an operational necessity. Any modification of this communication should be made by Eisenhower and not by the CCS. The course of action outlined in SCAEF plan appears to be in accord with agreed strategy and SCAEF’s directive, particularly in light of present developments. Eisenhower is deploying across the Rhine in the north the maximum number of forces which can be employed. The secondary effort in the south is ach