, the great venture which had been agreed upon almost a year before as the true line of Allied effort for accomplishing the defeat of Germany.|6!  When I later called upon the Prime Minister I was delighted to get a similar assurance. He said, “General, I have heard here that we British are planning to scuttle Roundup. This is not so. I have given my word and I shall keep it. But we now have a glorious opportunity before us; we must not fail to seize it. When the time comes you will find the British ready to do their part in the other operation.” Roundup was the code name that was later changed to Overlord.  The President was hopeful of a quick settlement of the French political situation through a reconciliation between Giraud and De Gaulle, feeling that he could convince both that the best interests of France would be served by their joining forces. During the conversation, which turned frequently to the personal, I was struck with his phenomenal memory for detail. He recalled that my brother Milton had visited Africa and he told me the reasons why he had assigned Milton to the OWI, which was headed by Elmer Davis. He repeated entire sentences, almost paragraphs, from the radiogram I had sent home to explain the Darlan matter and told me the message had been most useful in calming fears that all of us were turning Fascist.  It was some time after I had returned to Algiers that the “unconditional surrender” formula was announced by the President and the Prime Minister.!71 Of more immediate importance to me was the decision that the British Eighth Army and the Desert Air Force, coming up through Tripoli and lower Tunisia, would be assigned to the Allied forces under my command when once they had entered the latter province. During the day I spent at Casablanca I was informed of this general plan, but not until General Marshall later came to Algiers did I learn that it had been definitely applyved. General Alexander was to become the deputy commander of the Allied fo