rtunity for concentra- tions on the flanks.  Immediately south of the British area Bradley, on October 22, brought into line the U.S. Ninth Army under General Simpson./8! On November 16, Bradley renewed his offensive toward the Rhine in the northern part of his sector. The attack was carried out by the Ninth and First Armies and was preceded by a heavy bombing of the enemy and by artillery bombardment. Twelve hundred and four American and 1,188 British heavy bombers participated, the operation being another example of the extent to which we were then using the heavy bomber to intervene effectively in the ground bat- tle.{21  These attacks initially employed fourteen divisions, and the number was soon increased to seventeen. Nevertheless, progress was slow and the fighting intense. On the right flank of this attack the First Army got involved in the Hurtgen Forest, the scene of one of the most bitterly contested battles of the entire campaign. The enemy had all the advantages of strong defensive country, and the attacking Americans had to depend almost exclusively upon infantry weapons because of the thickness of the forest. The weather was abominable and the German garrison was particularly stubborn, but Yankee doggedness finally won. Thereafter, whenever veterans of the American 4th, 9th, and 28th Divisions referred to hard fighting they did so in terms of comparison with the Battle of Hurtgen Forest, which they placed at the top of the list.101  Tr anita AL nr neniin ae allae Lattlan Af +L A nana na ninaer: shavantae In rebiah snits vernen ninnnd dancin fae das an thar die ant tha Anfan ding aaveiannn canaval neancenan nantinend entil een  Page 392 of 669 57%  BALD CLOT ALOU CALL PUY CUM AGL ES LAULVELS UL ET UVALS (eA OLLIGil, OPCOCUY LY PE UL CULLALE CUE POU UUAL) ALU LLELY SCUULIALINIES LU AAILEL LOL WiLL UE MOt Uh SAIL WEL. LACOD Wee PUiis WE CULE LeU Uy energetic naval and air action. In spite of all difficulties, Antwerp quickly became the northern bulwark o