he question is not one of academic justice for the leader, it is that of concern for the many and the objective of victory.  Because of the distance of Salerno from our air bases in Sicily we were particularly anxious to capture the Foggia airfields speedily, and a number of plans had been previously studied in order to facilitate this operation.  With the completion of the Sicilian campaign we had begun the transfer of seven divisions, four American and three British, from the Mediterranean theater to Britain, in preparation for the great assault across the English Channel.[30] With these divisions unavailable for action in Italy, the only unit left that could be used for an expedition into the heel and lower leg of the Italian peninsula in the direction of Foggia was a British airborne division. Its indicated port of entry was Taranto, an Italian base that we hoped to obtain under the terms of the Italian surrender and one where German strength was almost nonexistent. If we could immediately place even small formations ashore we should be able to get the important airfields promptly and cheaply.  The prize to be won was great, but except for naval fighting ships our sea transport was assigned to the Salerno operation. Moreover, because of its lack of land transport and heavy equipment, the airborne division was not a particularly suitable formation to use on an invasion where a long land advance was necessary. Again we decided to gamble, and in this case a tremendous burden of responsibility was assumed by Admiral Cunningham. He unhesitatingly agreed to push his battle fleet directly into Taranto Harbor, discounting the possibility of treachery or destruction by mine fields, in order to carry the British 1st Airborne Division into the docks at that port. The operation was carried out as planned on September 9, but with the loss of one fine British cruiser and more than two hundred men she was carrying.!31] She was sunk by a mine in the harbor of Taranto.  A dramat