would be established in France. Command of the First Army would then pass to Lieutenant General Courtney H. Hodges, who, during the early battling, served as Bradley’s deputy. However, what could not then be foreseen was the time required to effect the eventual breakout, the completion of the enemy’s defeat in close fighting on the Normandy front, and the eventual sorting out of army groups, each into its own main channel of invasion.  Until this should come about and while all forces were operating toward the common purpose of destroying the German forces on our immediate front, it was clear that one battle commander should stay in co-ordinating authority over the whole line. Our estimate of the date that these conditions would prevail was September 1 and senior commanders were notified that on that date each army group would operate in direct subordination to Supreme Headquarters.|8! Fortunately my personal headquarters was located so conveniently to the headquarters of both Montgomery and Brad- ley that I could visit each easily.!2!  The July battling all along the front involved some of the fiercest and most sanguinary fighting of the war. On the American front every attack was channelized by swamps and streams and the ground was unusually advantageous to the defense. Many of Bradley’s subordinates made names for themselves during this period, clearly establishing their right to be numbered among the best of America’s tacticians. Our corps and division commanders, to say nothing of hundreds of more junior officers, generally demonstrated qualities of leadership and tactical skill that stamped them as top- flight battle leaders; the same was true in the armies of our Allies. And among our troops, whatever their nationality or flag, stubborn courage was an outstanding characteristic that boded inevitable defeat for the enemy.  Just after the middle of July the U.S. First Army attained, on its portion of the front, the line—St. L6 to the west coast—from which it co