tremities of the Army.  Chapter 17 AUTUMN FIGHTING ON GERMANY'’S FRONTIER ee  IN SEPTEMBER OUR ARMIES WERE crowding up against the borders of Germany. Enemy defenses were naturally and artificially strong. Devers’ U.S. Seventh and French First Armies were swinging in eastward against the Vosges Mountains, which formed a traditional defensive barrier. In the north the Siegfried Line, backed up by the Rhine River, comprised a defensive system that oly a well-sup- plied and determined force could hope to breach.  For the moment we were still dependent upon the ports at Cherbourg and Arromanches, and because of their limited capacity and the restricted communications leading out of them the accumulation of forward reserves was impossible. It was even difficult to maintain adequately the troops that were daily engaged in constant fighting for position along the front. This would continue to be true until we could get Antwerp and Marseille working at capacity. Of the former, Bradley wrote to me on September 21: “...all plans for future operations always lead back to the fact that in order to supply an operation of any size beyond the Rhine, the port of Antwerp is essential.”|1] He never failed to see that logistics would be a vital factor in the final defeat of Germany.  With the advent of bad weather, road maintenance presented additional problems to the Services of Supply because of the shallow foundations of many of the European roads, particularly in Belgium. In numerous instances our heavily laden trucks broke completely through the surfaces of main highways and it seemed almost impossible to fill the resulting quagmires with sufficient stone and gravel to restore them to a semblance of usefulness.  To reduce dependence on roads we brought in quantities of railway rolling stock to replace that destroyed earlier in the war.|2! To do this expeditiously, railway engineers developed a simple scheme that was adopted with splendid results. Heavy equipment like railway cars