anization serving in the Philippines, he promptly directed the highest promotions and dec- orations for General MacArthur, and he supported without stint every idea and scheme our imagination could suggest.  On my desk memorandum pad, which by accident survived, I find this note, made on January 1, 1942: “I’ve been insisting that the Far East is critical—and no sideshows should be undertaken until air and ground there are in satisfactory state. Instead we are taking on Magnet, Gymnast, etc.” Three days later appeared: “At last we’re getting some things on the road to Australia. The air plan includes four pursuit groups, and two heavy, two medium, and one light bombardment groups. But we’ve got to have ships—and we need them now! Tempers are short. There are lots of amateur strategists on the job. I'd give anything to be back in the field.” My obvious irritation was possibly caused by the knowledge that much time would elapse before the “air plan” could be implemented.  On December 22, when the Pensacola Convoy arrived at Brisbane, we began the establishment of our Australian base.|81 This quick start was largely the result of accident. On the day of the Pearl  Page 24 of 669 4%  To prolong the duration of the defense while the Navy was undergoing repair, there was the possibility that we could ship to the islands vitally needed items by submarine and blockade runners, and, provided we could keep open the necessary line of communications, something could be shipped by air. Australia was the base nearest to the Philippines that we could hope to establish and main- tain, and the necessary line of air communications would therefore follow along the islands intervening between that continent and the Philippines.  If we were to use Australia as a base it was mandatory that we procure a line of communications leading to it. This meant that we must instantly move to save Hawaii, Fiji, New Zealand, and New Caledonia, and we had to make certain of the safety of Australia itse