her the Westwall or the Siegfried Line was outstanding in military annals; to smash them both in the space of ten months was a matchless achievement for the participating troops.  It is easy to deprecate the value of fixed defenses and fortifications. The Chinese Wall, the Roman Wall, and the Maginot Line all failed, eventually, in their defensive purposes. However, on any given section of front, any unit that is on the defensive and has the advantage of carefully prepared defenses enjoys a tremendous superiority over its exposed opponents.  Against the Westwall we used surprise in our choice of the landing area and a tremendous concentration of power on a narrow front to achieve the initial penetration. The defensive fortifications lacked depth. Once they were broken in the lodgment area, our air and sea power assured us use of the beaches for build-up. The German, moreover, was largely isolated by destruction of his commu- nications lines and bridges across the Seine and Loire; our reinforcements poured in while his numbers were with difficulty maintained.  The Siegfried Line was more formidable. Its defenses included great mine fields, intricate networks of obstacles, tank ditches, concealed concrete blockhouses, and heavily fortified machine-gun nests, supported by artillery and auxiliary weapons, connected by a superlative communications system, backed up by a dependable line of supply over which could be moved rapidly reinforcements and munitions. In certain areas the defensive fortifications were several miles in depth. At others, river obstacles were utilized.  The task of penetrating and breaking through such fortifications presented the most serious, almost terrifying, problems to the attacking troops. Nothing is easy in war. Mistakes are always paid for in casualties and troops are quick to sense any blunder made by their commanders. Even though in the winter of 1945 some stretches of the Siegfried were held by hastily formed and inadequately trained defe