hief so firmly that he need never fear the absence of this legal power.  Success in such organizations rests ultimately upon personalities; statesmen, generals, admirals, and air marshals—even populations—must develop confidence in the concept of single command and in the organization and the leader by which the single command is exercised. No binding regulation, law, or custom can apply to all its parts—only a highly developed sense of mutual confidence can solve the problem. Possibly this truth has equal applicability in peace.  Throughout the first winter of war the news from the East Indian region was increasingly bad and the Navy did not have sufficient strength to undertake major operations far from a friendly base. Every troop and cargo ship upon which we could lay our hands was dispatched hurriedly to the Southwest Pacific. But we had so little!  The transport of personnel without heavy equipment did not involve elaborate arrangements when fast ships were available. These vessels depended solely on their speed for safety against the submarine. The British gave us the use of some of the fastest and largest passenger ships afloat. Among these was the Queen Mary.  One day we dispatched her, without escort, from an Eastern port in the United States to Australia, loaded with 14,000 American troops. It would have been only bad luck of the worst kind if a submarine had got close enough to attack her successfully. Moreover, we believed that even if one torpedo should strike her she would probably have enough remaining speed to escape from any sub- marine of the type then possessed by the Germans. However, such probabilities could provide no assurance that she would get through.  On that trip the Queen Mary had to put into a Brazilian port for fuel. We were horrified to intercept a radio from an Italian in Rio who reported her presence to the Italian Government and upon her departure actually gave the direction upon which she set out to sea. For the next week we live