ore charged with the command of the U.S. 66th Division, which, hundreds of miles to the westward, was still containing the German garrisons in the Biscay ports of St. Nazaire and Lorient.[211  Bradley’s advance with his three armies was to begin as soon as he had made sure that the German forces in the Ruhr could not interfere with his communications. I had no intention of conducting a bitter, house-to-house battle for the destruction of the Ruhr garrison. It was a thickly populated region with no indigenous sources of food supply. Hunger alone could certainly bring about eventual capitulation and spare the Allies great numbers of casualties.  The second and third parts of the general plan visualized, following upon Bradley’s junction with the Russians somewhere along the Elbe, a rapid advance on each of our flanks. The northern thrust would cut off Denmark; the southern one would push into Austria and overrun the mountains west and south of that country. In the early stages of Bradley’s advance the Sixth Army Group on the south and the Twenty-first Army Group on the left would advance generally in support of Bradley’s main thrust, making as much progress as possible in the direction of their final objectives.  In turn, once Bradley had achieved his mission in the center, he would support Montgomery on the north and Devers on the south, as they undertook the final advances planned for them.  This general plan was presented to Generalissimo Stalin.[221  Under the arrangement made in January and approved by the Combined Chiefs of Staff, I thought that I was completely within the scope of my own authority and responsibility in communicating this plan to the Generalissimo. However, we quickly found that Prime Minister Churchill seriously objected to my action. He disagreed with the plan and held that, because the campaign was now approaching its end, troop maneuvers had acquired a political significance that demanded the intervention of political leaders in the developm