uch of aman who has been intensively studying amphibious operations for many months. I understand that his position is Chief of Combined Operations, and I think his name is Admiral Mountbatten.!22! Anyone will be better than none; such an operation cannot be carried out under committee command. But I have heard that Admiral Mountbatten is vigorous, intelligent, and courageous, and if the operation is to be staged initially with British forces predominating I assume he could do the job.”  My remarks were greeted with an amazed silence. Then General Brooke said, “General, possibly you have not met Admiral Mountbatten. This is he sitting directly across the table from you.” My failure to recognize him when I entered the meeting and my later personal remarks about him naturally caused a moment of embarrassment. Nevertheless, I stuck to my guns and retorted, “I still say that the key to success is to appoint a commander and give him the necessary authority and responsibility to carry out the planning and preparatory work that otherwise will never be done.”  The meeting was merely for an exchange of ideas and nothing was done. Almost needless to add, however, from then on Admiral Lord Louis Mountbatten was my warm and firm friend.  Upon my permanent assignment to London, there began a series of meetings among the commanders concerned to examine into the detailed requirements of the projected operation. Ordinarily these discussions involved General Paget, Admiral Ramsay, Air Chief Marshal Douglas, General Spaatz, Admiral Mountbatten, and myself, together with groups from our respective staffs. No one was in authority so no decisive action could be planned. Dozens of different ideas affecting strategy, tactics, organization, and supply were discussed interminably. These discussions were complicated by service and personal prejudices and by varying convictions regarding the usefulness of the air in ground operations.  But through these studies and conferences the Americans b