land. By agreement reached in Cairo the American strategic bombers in the Mediterranean and in England were to be combined under Spaatz’s single operational command, a circumstance that made it more than ever necessary that he should be in the United Kingdom, where the principal effort was to be mounted. This was arranged by bringing Lieutenant General Ira C. Eaker from the United Kingdom to the Mediterranean to serve as the air commander in chief in that theater. In the United Kingdom, Eaker’s post as commander of the U.S. Eighth Air Force was given to General Doolittle.[251  While engaged in all of these details and counting on getting away to England about the tenth of January, I received a Christmas telegram from General Marshall. He urged me to come immediately to Washington for short conferences with him and the President and for a brief breather before undertaking the new assignment. I protested, on the ground that time was vital and that, moreover, I could accomplish little by a visit to Washington until I had been in London at least long enough to familiarize myself with the essentials of the problems there. General Marshall did not agree. He advised me to “allow someone else to run the war for twenty minutes,” and to come on to Washington.!26] Strictly speaking, my commanders were the Combined Chiefs of Staff but, realizing General Marshall’s earnestness in the matter, I quickly cleared the point with the British side of the house and made ready to leave for the United States. After a week I planned to return briefly to Africa to com- plete the details of turning over the American command to General Devers, who had not yet arrived from London.!27I All this would consume time, the most precious element of all.  To provide guidance to the staff in London pending my arrival, I thought it necessary to send there someone who was acquainted with my general ideas. Fortunately General Mo}gomery was available to leave for England at once. He came to my headquarters