en rin van ain acninat tha auviaiue neanncitian that tha Marry aauld nat talen denftad man  Page 42 of 669 7%  i ~~ ae a a that General Bonesteel would assume command of the forces there when American units reached two thirds of the total troop strength on the is Roosevelt’s congratulations upon the Bataan garrison’s magnificent resistance to Japanese mass assaults during the previous week. To General MacArthur went a message asking information on the inclusion of Dutch officers on his staff in the Southwest Pacific.  The study of messages received and the preparation of those to be sent was interrupted constantly by conferences on a multitude of topics with representatives of all the armed services, with government officials and industrial leaders, and with Allied agents.  Most of the conferences were held in my own office. Out of them were developed decisions, many minor but some of great significance. Each required action at some point within the Operations Division or the War Department or at some remote point where troops of the Army were stationed. To insure that none would be forgotten and that records for subordinates would always be available, we had resorted to an automatic recording system that proved most effective.  The method was a complete wiring of my war room with dictaphones so placed as to pick up every word uttered in the room. Conversations were thus recorded on a machine just outside my office where a secretary instantly transcribed them into notes and memoranda for the benefit of my associates in the Operations Division. As a consequence, and often without further reference to me, the staff was able to translate every decision and agreement into appropriate action and to preserve such records as were necessary.  I made it a habit to inform visitors of the system that we used so that each would understand its purpose was merely to facilitate the execution of business. It saved me hours of work in the dictation of notes and directives and reliev