ablanca had ceased because of Darlan’s order; at other places the fighting was over before the order was received. The French offi- cers who had openly assisted us, including Generals Bethouart and Mast, were in temporary disgrace; they were helpless to do anything.  After exhaustive review of the whole situation Mr. Murphy said, “The whole matter has now become a military one. You will have to give the answer.”  While we were reaching a final decision he stepped entirely aside except to act upon occasion as interpreter. It was squarely up to me to decide whether or not the procurement of an armistice, the saving of time and lives, and the early development of workable arrangements with the French were worth more to the Allied forces than the arbitrary arrest of Darlan, an action certain to be accompanied by continued fighting and cumulative bitterness. Local French officials were still officially members of a neutral country, and unless our governments were ready formally to declare war against France we had no legal or other right arbitrarily to establish, in the Nazi style, a puppet government of our own choosing.  The arrangement reached was set forth in a document that outlined the methods by which the French authorities engaged to assist the Allied forces.[221 It accorded to the Allied commander in chief, ina friendly, not an occupied, territory, all the necessary legal rights and privileges that were required in the administration of his forces and in the conduct of military operations. We were guaranteed the use of ports, railways, and other facilities.  The Allies merely stated that, provided the French forces and the civil population would obey Darlan’s orders to co-operate militarily with us, we would not disturb the French administrative control of North Africa. On the contrary, we affirmed our intention of co-operating with them in preserving order. There was no commitment to engage our governments in any political recognition of any kind and Darlan was