s through the  Page 418 of 669 61%  THE ARDENNES - DEC. 19, 1944  INITIAL GERMAN DRIVE @@ GERMAN ATTACK AMERICAN LINE  So we were particularly careful about Liége, where there were vast quantities of every kind of vital supplies, including fuel and food. However, we were determined that the enemy would be stopped short of that point, and in the outcome he never got close to Liége. Subsequently we learned that Brussels and Antwerp were designated by the Germans as the principal objectives for the assaulting troops. Nevertheless, our reasoning was correct because lack of supply did become one of Von Rundstedt’s major difficulties in the prosecution of the offensive.!151  On the seventeenth Bradley ordered the XVIII Airborne Corps from reserve to the front with Bastogne its original destination. General Middleton, then in Bastogne, saw the great importance of the spot and urged preparation to hold it. He conferred with Bradley by telephone, and although he stated that the place could soon be surrounded, recommended that it be held. It became necessary to di- vert the 82d Airborne Division to the north toward Stavelot, so the 101st, with detachments of the VIII Corps, became the defenders of Bastogne.!161  Developments were closely examined and analyzed all during December 17 and 18. By the night of the eighteenth I felt we had sufficient information of the enemy’s strength, intentions, and situation, and of our own capabilities, to lay down a specific plan for our counteraction. On the early morning of December 19, accompanied by Air Chief Marshal Tedder and a small group of staff officers, I went to Verdun, where Generals Bradley, Patton, and Devers had been ordered to meet me.!17! As the conference started, with everyone around a long table, I remarked: “The present situation is to be regarded as one of opportunity for us and not of disaster. There will be only cheerful faces at this conference table.” True to his impulsive nature, General Patton broke out with, “Nel