forces required by the Allies to defeat Germany would have to come from the United States. The need for battle training on a large scale was evident. Secondly, in all its prior battles the corps had been compelled to fight in small packets; never had it had a chance to exert its power as a unit. Thirdly, the morale of the corps had improved markedly since March 1 and it had a right to prove its own effectiveness as well as the quality of American arms.  Success would make the unit, and it would give a sense of accomplishment to the American people that they richly deserved in view of the strenuous efforts they had made thus far in the war. Out of victory participated in by both countries on a significant scale would come a sense of partnership not otherwise obtainable. The soldiers themselves were entitled to engage in an operation where for the first time conditions would favor instead of hamper and impede them. A real victory would give them a great élan for the sterner tests yet to come.  Alexander instantly concurred in my determination that the corps should be used in its entirety and as a unit. He proposed, and I agreed, that the best plan was to transfer the II Corps across the rear of the First Army and place it on the northern flank facing Bizerte. This involved a nicety in staff work in order to avoid entanglement with the British First Army’s supply lines, but ANderson’s and Patton’s staffs worked out the details so efficiently that no confusion resulted.!40l It was a move that prewar staff colleges would have deemed an impossibility. But clockwork schedules and effective traffic control at crossroads characterized the whole movement.  i  a  ct,  By  MATEUR @  DJEDEIDA e  ZAGHOUAN e  tJ PONT-Dt! FAHS  ENFIDAVILLE 3 e  py, BR.9 CORPS  Page 179 of 669 27%  t  t fe) a  i  an  had only s unit was a  tes troub  Corps fo Some d  additional  ector in t  r employment elsewhere on the battle line.  iscussion arose as to the suitability of the corps for participati