show himself may result in instant death.” German 88 Pounds Paratroopers Near Arnhem (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  ISOLATE, THEN ANNIHILATE “.. battles of annihilation are possible only against some isolated portion of the enemy’s entire force. Destruction of bridges, culverts, railways, roads, and canals by the air force tends to isolate the force under attack...” Ulm Rail Yards After December 1944 Raid (Photograph by U.S. Air Force)  SUPREME OVER GERMANY “By early 1945 the effects of our air offensive against the German economy were becoming catastrophic...there developed a continuous crisis in German transportation and in all phases of her war effort.” Bremen Is Target of B-17 and B-24 Flight (Photograph by U.S. Air Force)  THESE WERE HITLER'S ELITE “within eighteen days of the moment the Ruhr was surrounded it had surrendered with an even greater number of prisoners than we had bagged in the final Tunisian collapse...” Nazis Taken Prisoner in the Ruhr Pocket (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  DOUBLE-LOADED FOR HOME This plan required “one man to sleep in the daytime so that another could have his bunk during the night.... I never afterward heard of a single complaint...” The Queen Elizabeth Brings Them Home (Photograph by U.S. Coast Guard)  Page x of 669 1%  (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  BEYOND THE DUNE—EUROPE “‘You will enter the continent of Europe and...undertake operations aimed at the heart of Germany and the destruction of her Armed Forces.’” Assault Troops Hit Normandy Beach on D-day (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  CARGO FOR INVASION “.,.we had...to build up on the beaches the reserves in troops, ammunition, and supplies that would enable us, within a reasonable time, to initiate deep offensives...” Ships, Troops, Trucks, Supply Crowd French Beach (Photograph by U.S. Coast Guard)  AXIS ALLY—MUD “Some soldier once said, ‘The weather is always neutral.’ Nothing could be more untrue.” In Tunis, Italy, and across the Continent