n between the British and American governments as the main strategical effort in defeating Germany. Here are short excerpts from the directive:  The Commanding General...European Theater,...will command all U.S. Army Forces and personnel now in, or hereafter dispatched to, the European Theater of Operations, including any part of the Marine Corps therein which may be detached for service with the Army.  By agreement between Navy and War Departments, planning and operational control...will be exercised by the Commanding General...over all U.S. Navy Forces assigned to this Theater.  Subject to such limitations within the British Isles as are necessary to avoid any violation of British sovereignty, the Commanding General, European Theater, is charged with the tactical, strategical, territorial and administrative duties of a theater commander.  The mission of the Commanding General, European Theater, will be to prepare for and carry on military operations in the European Theater against the Axis Powers and their Allies.{Z!  Page 58 of 669 2%  ee ene ee eee ee ee en nen ee ee ee ee nen ee en eee pe eee en ee nee eee ee eee ee ee ee en eee ee eee ee en ee eee pee en ene ee ee ee ee ee ne ne ee ee ee eee eee eee en eee ee ee ene Se ee ee nee eee nee ee ee pn ee ene nee ee nN I II any thought of personal elation and so critical as to compel complete absorption in the job at hand. In any event, the unexpected orders started me on a hurried round of preparation, most of which in- volved the transfer of War Department duties to my successor, General Handy.  Ihad several meetings with important officials. In a short talk with Secretary of War Stimson, I gained the impression that he was counting on the start of active operations very soon. I commented that a long period of build-up would have to precede any attack on the European continent, but I did learn that he was a firm supporter of the plan.  A later call on President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill, a guest at the