erence with our ground forces by enemy airplanes, to render tactical assistance to attacking troops by fighter-bomber effort against selected targets on the front, and to facilitate capture of strongly defended points by heavy bombardment. In these close-support activities it has, of course, certain limitations. In Europe bad weather was the worst enemy of the air, and the unexpected advent of rain, fog, or cloud often badly disarranged a battle plan. In the middle  af Neramher had waather nravantad tha air fram diecrarnina tha cancantratian af wniuced Garman etranath in the Ardannac and mada tha air farca of little ca ta 110 in tha firet wool af that hattlo  Page 384 of 669 56%  ULLE MeAVICSl NIU OL Chali€s All DUUIIIS. UUL CLISITICE LS, LUOWEVEL, IIIELELY idlU LallWay Liao Lil Lie VDOLLUIIL OL Lots. LHeY Lei idl LallWay Liles UUW I LU LILE WaAlel 5 CUES al LIE VDEACIICS Ul CLV KALlOlL and debarkation and, by arranging flexible connections between ground tracks and those in the LSTs, simply rolled the cars in and out of the ships. But while waging and winning, during the autumn months, the battle of supply, we found no cessation of fighting along the front.  Our ground forces, while not yet at peak strength, continued constantly to increase. On August 1 our divisional strength on the Continent was thirty-five, with four American and two British divisions in the United Kingdom. By October 1 our aggregate strength on the Continent, including the Sixth Army Group which had advanced through the south of France, was fifty-four divisions, with six still staging through the United Kingdom.|3] All our divisions were short in infantry replacements, and in total numerical strength of ground forces the Germans still had a marked advantage. We were disposed along a line which, beginning in the north on the banks of the Rhine, stretched five hundred miles southward to the border of Switzerland. To the south of that country detachments were posted on the French-Italian border to