we paced away among Gibraltar’s caverns, hundreds of Allied ships, in fast- and slow-moving convoys, were steaming across the North Atlantic...” U.S. Navy-Escorted Convoy Nears North Africa (Official U.S. Navy Photograph)  PUNCHING OUT A SNIPER “The trained American possesses qualities that are almost unique. Because of his initiative and resourcefulness, his adaptability to change and his readiness to resort to expedient...” Anti-Tank Gun Gets New Normandy Role IN (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  CONQUEST IN SINGLE FILE “In the advance eastward from Palermo...the only road was of the ‘shelf’ variety, a mere niche in the cliffs interrupted by bridges and culverts that the enemy invariably destroyed as he drew back fighting.” Infantrymen Advance Along Sicilian Cliff (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  BOMBERS’ HOLOCAUST In Italy, “head-on attacks against the enemy on his mountainous frontiers would be slow and extremely costly.” Only by utter destruction of his strongholds could the battle toll be tolerable. Smoke Pall Shrouds Cassino as Bombing Begins (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  BEYOND THE DUNE—EUROPE “‘You will enter the continent of Europe and...undertake operations aimed at the heart of Germany and the destruction of her Armed Forces. Assault Troops Hit Normandy Beach on D-day (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  »  CARGO FOR INVASION “...we had...to build up on the beaches the reserves in troops, ammunition, and supplies that would enable us, within a reasonable time, to initiate deep offensives...” Ships, Troops, Trucks, Supply Crowd French Beach (Photograph by U.S. Coast Guard)  AXIS ALLY—MUD “Some soldier once said, ‘The weather is always neutral.’ Nothing could be more untrue.” In Tunis, Italy, and across the Continent, mud was a formidable barrier to Allied advances. Even the Jeep Succumbed to Italian Mud (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  RED BALL ROARS FORWARD  On Rad Rall Hichwrave “avarw vahicla ran at leact twranty hare a