r a fine Thanksgiving dinner.” I turned around in complete astonishment and said, “Well, that shows what war does to a man. I had no idea this was Thanksgiving Day.”  A personally pleasing incident of the Cairo trip was an order from the Chief of Staff that I take two days’ rest and recreation. I employed them for a quick visit to Luxor, site of the ancient Egyptian city of Thebes, and a visit of a few hours to Jerusalem and Bethlehem. This was my first glimpse of these areas and the intense interest that I felt in viewing the remains of ancient civilizations came closer than had anything else during the war to lifting briefly from my mind the constant preoccupation with military problems.  Page 235 of 669 35%  Again I had an opportunity for private talks with the President, at one of which he informally presented me with the Legion of Merit. His conversation revolved more around postwar problems than those of immediate operations. He gave me his ideas on the post-hostilities occupation of Germany and listened sympathetically to my contention that occupation should become a responsibility of civil agencies of government as soon as the exigencies of war might permit. He mentioned domestic politics only to say that, much as he’d like to go back to private life, it looked as if he’d have to stand again for the presidency.  One evening General Marshall asked me with some others to dinner. It was a splendid American dinner with turkey and all that goes with it. As the guests were leaving, one said to General Marshall, “Thank you very much for a fine Thanksgiving dinner.” I turned around in complete astonishment and said, “Well, that shows what war does to a man. I had no idea this was Thanksgiving Day.”  A personally pleasing incident of the Cairo trip was an order from the Chief of Staff that I take two days’ rest and recreation. I employed them for a quick visit to Luxor, site of the ancient Egyptian city of Thebes, and a visit of a few hours to Jerusalem and Bethlehem