nd fierce fighting ensued for a considerable period.[28| The greatest pressure of the German attack came in the center and pushed forward to within two or three miles of the beach. The outlook became somewhat gloomy, particularly when the American 36th Division was struck from an unexpected direction and suffered heavy losses before it could extricate and recover itself. At one time it looked so probable that the invasion forces might be divided that General Clark made tentative plans for re-embarking his headquarters in order to control both sectors and to continue the battle in whichever one offered the greatest chance for success. This tentative plan, repeated to headquarters in garbled form, caused consternation because it seemed to indicate that commanders on the spot were discouraged and preparing to withdraw the whole force. This was actually not the case. General Clark and General Richard L. McCreery, com- manding the British 10 Corps, never once faltered in their determination.  When General Clark led the Fifth Army into Salerno he had not previously participated in any of the fighting of World War II. He proved to be a fine battle leader and fully justified the personal confidence that had impelled me to assign him to such an important position. Later in the war, when General Alexander became the supreme commander in the Mediterranean, Clark was advanced to army group commander in Italy, an appointment which obviously meant that both British and American authorities were well satisfied with his performance.  Continued reports and reconnaissance on the thirteenth furnished the details of the German attack, and that day Air Chief Marshal Tedder was ordered to concentrate the full strength of his air force, to include every plane that could fly, in an attack upon sensitive spots in the German formations.!29| This great air attack was delivered with precision and effectiveness on the morning of the  Page 223 of 669 33%  An invasion on a wider front was clearly