wo songs. He promised mea speedy trip through the city to the airfield, say- ing he would go along himself to see that there was no delay.  Because of the marshal’s hospitable gesture toward his Allies I regretted my inability to stay. The singing of the Red Army chorus was remarkable, and the table was piled with Russian delicacies.  Page 514 of 669 ThA%  By agreement on the political level, SHAEF went out of existence on July 14. To mark the occasion I sent a final message of thanks and good-by to the entire command. For the first time in three years I ceased to be an Allied commander. Thenceforth my responsibilities were American only.|15]  My personal staff was now joined by Lieutenant Colonel James Stack. Sergeant major in the 3d Division when I was with it at Fort Lewis, later commissioned and transferred to the Operations Division, where he became executive officer, Colonel Stack had served as my personal representative at the War Department throughout the Mediterranean and European campaigns.  Preliminary agreements for an initial meeting of the Allied Council in Berlin were accomplished with difficulty. Complications included differences in language and laborious methods of commu- nication, the lack of intimate contacts between senior commanders, and the destruction in the city of Berlin which so stringently restricted accommodations. It was not until June 5 that we progressed far enough with all these tortuous negotiations to hold the first formal meeting of the Allied commanders in Berlin.[16!  The purpose was merely to sign our basic proclamation, a document announcing the formation of the Council and assumption of joint responsibility for the administration of Germany. We thought that the papers in the case had been completely agreed upon before we went to Berlin, but when we reached there we discovered that there were questions which the Russians still considered unsettled.  The meeting was arranged for the middle of the afternoon and before it began I