igades under Montgomery’s operational command that day.!2! Not all of these, however, could immediately be committed to the eastward thrust, since Montgomery had to protect his long left flank, stretching westward along the Rhine River to the North Sea. Additional Empire troops, from the Mediterranean, were on the way to join him.  The assault, on the night of March 23-24, was preceded by a violent artillery bombardment. On the front of the two American divisions two thousand guns of all types participated. General Simpson and I found a vantage point in an old church tower from which to witness the gunfire. Because the batteries were distributed on the flat plains on the western bank of the Rhine every flash could be seen. The din was incessant. Meanwhile infantry assault troops were marching up to the water’s edge to get into the boats. We joined some of them and found the troops remarkably eager to finish the  Page 461 of 669 67%  el lee  ASSAULT AND ENCIRCLEMENT a  WHILE MONTGOMERY, ON THE NORTH, was waging the first of the February and March battles for the destruction of the German forces before the Rhine, additional Canadian and British strength began transferring from the Mediterranean to the Twenty-first Army Group. The move was called Operation Goldflake, and involved a Canadian corps from Italy and a British division from the Middle East. A large proportion of these troops landed at Marseille and cut across the entire network of Allied communications to reach their position on the northern flank. The difficult move was handled smoothly and skillfully by the staffs. No interference with front-line supply and maintenance occurred. Thus while Bradley and Devers, farther south, were delivering the blows that freed the west bank of the Rhine, Montgomery, in the north, could count on early reinforcement as he completed his preparations for forcing a crossing of the river.  Montgomery was always a master in the methodical preparation of forces for a formal, set-p