r use to the Axis as bases for submarines, and from them to operate eastward toward the British desert forces. The successful action of the first few days assured attainment of the minimum object and we immediately turned all our attention to the greater mission assigned us of co-operating with General Sir Harold R. L. G. Alexander’s forces, then twelve hundred miles away at the opposite end of the Mediterranean. Between us we would destroy all Axis forces in northern Africa and reopen the sea for the use of Allied shipping.  On October 23, in Egypt, General Alexander had launched the British Eighth Army, under General Sir Bernard L. Montgomery, in an assault on the enemy lines at El Alamein,|1] and within two weeks the enemy was in headlong flight to the westward, hotly pursued by the victorious British. If we could advance to the Axis line of communications we could assure that the brilliant tactical victory of the Eighth Army would result in even greater strategic gain.  British air and sea forces based in Egypt and Malta denied the Axis any practicable and dependable line of communications crossing the Mediterranean east of Tripoli.  Our own position, occupying French North Africa west of Bone, imposed a western limit upon the sea areas that the Axis could use. Thus there were available to Hitler and Mussolini only the ports lying between Bone in Tunisia and Tripoli in northwest Libya, from which to support Rommel. Every advance by the Allies from either flank would tend to squeeze the Axis channel of supplies and with continuation of this process eventual strangulation would result.  The air power of the Axis in Sicily, Pantelleria, and southern Italy was still so strong as to preclude the possibility of Allied naval advance into that region; final success in cutting the\xis commu- nications would demand land advance, with continuous build-up of forward air bases and air power.  By far the most important of the African ports then available to the Axis were Bize