®  ®BERNCASTEL SIEGBURG e  ALTEN KIRCHEN HERBORN  ) et <i _& WETZLAR  BITBURG oe MAING  BINGEN @®BERNCASTEL  This news was reported to Bradley. It happened that a SHAEF staff officer was in Bradley’s headquarters when the news arrived, and a discussion at once took place as to the amount of force that should be pushed across the bridge. If the bridgehead force was too small it would be destroyed through a quick concentration of German strength on the east side of the river. On the other hand, Brad- ley realized that if he threw a large force across he might interfere with further development of my basic plan. Bradley instantly telephoned me.  I was at dinner in myR Reims headquarters w with the © Corps and division commanders of the American airborne forces when en Bradley’ S call came ie through. When he reported that we had a permanent  Letdan 222-24 tint WA TL AA G20 2-- sales Ata nee 222d we 2 Ane wn ann nn -l. i eee ee a  Page 452 of 669 66%  aes FRANKFURT  Lt eS m o WIESBADEN® >  RY  WITTLICH e  e ® BINGEN ®BERNCASTEL  BITBURG MAINZ  This news was reported to Bradley. It happened that a SHAEF staff officer was in Bradley’s headquarters when the news arrived, and a discussion at once took place as to the amount of force that should be pushed across the bridge. If the bridgehead force was too small it would be destroyed through a quick concentration of German strength on the east side of the river. On the other hand, Brad- ley realized that if he threw a large force across he might interfere with further development of my basic plan. Bradley instantly telephoned me.  I was at dinner in my Reims headquarters with the corps and division commanders of the American airborne forces when Bradley’s call came through. When he reported that we had a permanent bridge across the Rhine I could scarcely believe my ears. He and I had frequently discussed such a development as a remote possibility but never as a well-founded hope.  I fairly shouted into the telephone: “How muc