ee i ee eee ee ee nee ene ee ee eee nN Ne ee NN NN Ne ODN NN ND NN Ne BE NAD Nee DY NN NE ED ER NG DN Be DADAM DL, De Ne BD ILD DD DNs Be OND IONS BD IND DDD ONDA Ne ND ON ND NDE FEE NNN ONE actions. He conformed to no pattern—a circumstance that made many fearful of his ability to fit into a team. Such doubts had no influence with me because of my confidence in his fighting heart and my conviction that he would provide effective leadership for combat troops. I felt that I knew him well because, at the end of the first World War, he and I had formed a fast friendship that could even include heated, sometimes almost screaming, argument over matters that more often than not were doctrinal and academic rather than personal or material.  With approval of the Chief of Staff, I called Patton to Washington and, though I knew the answer in advance, asked him whether he was willing to step down from command of his training corps to take a division into actual battle. His answer was in pleasing contrast to that of another corps commander who, when asked to take command of an American combat corps in the Pacific, declined on the basis that it was not fitting that he, a senior corps commander, should serve under an Australian “amateur” soldier.  The desert project for the employment of Patton’s division was defeated largely by lack of available shipping. To transport an armored division by sea there are required, entirely aside from escorting combat vessels, a total of 45 troop and cargo ships.!4! In this instance the convoy would have had to reach Cairo by the long route circling the Cape of Good Hope. The absence of so many ships from other vital supply missions could not be tolerated at the moment.  The incident was a valuable lesson to me, however. I realized that selection of personnel for key positions would, even in war, frequently be opposed only on the basis of routine consideration and commonly accepted standards, and would sometimes be influenced by nothing more impo