ation is to be regarded as one of opportunity for us and not of disaster. There will be only cheerful faces at this conference table.” True to his impulsive nature, General Patton broke out with, “Nell, let’s have the guts to let the——————_ go all the way to Paris. Then we'll really cut ’em off and chew ’em up.” Everyone, including Patton, smiled at this one, but I replied that the enemy would never be al- lowed to cross the Meuse.  The situation was carefully reviewed and it was gratifying to find that every man present, whether a commander or staff officer, was cool and confident. I did not hear any remark that indicated hysteria or excessive fear.  In a situation of this kind there are normally two feasible lines of reaction for the defending forces, assuming that the high command does not become so frightened as to order a general retreat along the whole front. One is merely to build up a safe defensive line around the general area under attack, choosing some strong feature, such as a river, on which to make the stand. The other is for the defender to begin attacking as soon as he can assemble the necessary troops. I chose the second, not only because in the strategic sense we were on the offensive, but because I firmly believed that by coming out of the Siegfried the enemy had given us a great opportunity which we should seize as soon as possible. This was in my mind when I radioed Montgomery on the nineteenth, saying: “Our weakest spot is in direction of Namur. The general plan is to plug the holes in the north and launch co-ordinated attack from the south.”|18| The following day I was more specific in another message to him: “Please let me have your personal appreciation of the situation on the north flank with reference to the possibility of giving up, if necessary, some ground in order to shorten our line and collect a strong reserve for the purpose of destroying the enemy in Belgium.”/19]  I had already determined that it was not essential for our countera