e, characteristics, and capabilities of the new  Page 273 of 669 40%  = >:  envelopment. To achieve it we planned to make the northern attack as strong as s the ines of communication would sustain, and the Frankfurt attack as strong as remaining resources would permit. We believed further that once these two attacks had joined in the vicinity of Kassel, east of the Ruhr, there would be no hope, in the military sense, remaining to Germany. In any event we believed that, once established in the Kassel region, we could easily thrust out offensively on our flanks. This would mean the end of the war in Europe.  All these successive moves with possible alternatives were the subjects of long discussions but the general plan approved as the outline of the operation we intended to conduct was:  _——-- ~~ oe een wes ae eee a oe ee  Land on the Normandy coast.  Build up the resources needed for a decisive battle in the Normandy-Brittany region and break out of the enemy’s encircling positions. (Land operations in the first two phases were to be under the tactical direction of Montgomery.)  Pursue on a broad front with two army groups, emphasizing the left to gain necessary ports and reach the boundaries of Germany and threaten the Ruhr. On our right we would link up with the forces that were to invade France from the south.  Build up our new base along the western border of Germany, by securing ports in Belgium and in Brittany as well as in the Mediterranean.  While building up our forces for the final battles, keep up an unrelenting offensive to the extent of our means, both to wear down the enemy and to gain advantages for the final fighting.  Complete the destruction of enemy forces west of the Rhine, in the meantime constantly seeking bridgeheads across the river.  Launch the final attack as a double envelopment of the Ruhr, again emphasizing the left, and follow this up by an immediate thrust through Germany, with the specific direction to be determined at the time.  Clean