!1Z! In view of our helpless situation there at that time, neutralization of the islands would have been an immediate military advantage and would, of course, have prevented tremendous suffering and privation on the part of the defending garrison and the population. However, its public proposal would not only have been greeted with scorn by the Japanese: such a confession of weakness would have had unfortunate psychological reverberations. None of us believed for a moment that the proposal represented a betrayal on the part of President Quezon. We felt that he was sturdily loyal but merely submitting for consideration a plan that, in his helpless situation, appeared to him as the possible salvation of his country. Receipt of the proposal was a bombshell —but the idea was instantly repudiated by the President and the Chief of Staff.  A principal duty of War Department planners was to recommend a scheme of operations for the Army in the waging of war against Germany and Japan. Our enemies, widely separated geographic- ally, were each in possession of a rich empire. We had to attack to win.  In late December, Prime Minister Churchill came to Washington, accompanied by the British Chiefs of Staff. These were Admiral Sir Dudley Pound for the Navy, General Sir Alan Brooke for the Army, and Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Portal for the Air Force. At that time the old War Plans Division, under General Gerow, was still in existence and most of the staff liaison work with the British group was carried on by him and other members of the staff.  The conferencel18! had two principal purposes, the first of which was to organize a workable system by which the American and British Chiefs of Staff could operate effectively as a team. The gist of the arrangement made was that each of the British Chiefs of Staff designate a representative to serve in Washington, in close contact with the American staffs. The British named Sir John Dill as the head of this mission and in that capacity h