than in these concluding stages of the war. Besides these planes we stripped and converted many heavy bombers to the same purpose. During the month of April the air forces delivered to the front lines 60,000 tons of freight, in which was included 10,000,000 gallons of gasoline.!271  Our troops were everywhere swarming over western Germany and there were few remaining targets against which the air force could be directed without danger of dropping their bombs on either our own or the Russian troops. In the late days of the war, however, the air force carried out two important bombing raids. One was by British Bomber Command against the fortress island of Heligoland, which was attacked in order to help Montgomery in case he found it necessary to assault across the Kiel Canal.[28| The other one was by the U.S. Eighth Air Force against Berchtesgaden. That stronghold and symbol of Nazi arrogance was thoroughly pounded with high explosives. The bombing took place when we still thought the Nazis might attempt to establish themselves in their National Redoubt with Berchtesgaden as the capital. The photo reconnaissance units brought back pictures that showed our bombers had reduced the place to a shambles; from them we derived a glee- ful and understandable satisfaction.|22)  MU, 3.  MILITARY SITUATION AT GERMAN SURRENDER Cc ALLIES MM u.s.s.r.  ES YUGOSLAVIA  Gm HELD BY GERMANS O MILES 100 IN EE)  BR.SECOND. ronal USNINTH ARMY]  KASSEL LEIPZIG  e EISENACH fa 3 =  U.S.THIRD ARMY)  Pa e  NURNBERG REGENSBURG  TSE LBRONN yi,  Oe  FOKN Loe >! |  Gen! iia  Page 498 of 669 72%  a  gl  2 —  the war. Besides these planes we stripped and converted many y heavy bombers to the same purpose. During the month of April thea air forces delivered to the front lines 60,000 tons of freight, i in n which was included 10,000,000 gallons of gasoline.  Our troops were everywhere swarming over western Germany and there were few remaining targets against which the air force could be directed without