OUSLLALLV EO. SEES SLEEVE LAU UNS MOLLE OC AD OULELS VULLILLIALIMOLS CLEC EU MU VV SEES REAR RULE PLACEELL OLALEAEIE TLL LALA Ah UL this came about because the troops were not yet “blooded.” There has always existed a curious notion that instant perfection in these matters comes about with the first whistle of a hostile bullet. Admittedly there are certain things to be learned from battle experience that can be absorbed in no other way. On the other hand, any commander who permits a unit to enter battle lacking any advan- tage, any needed instruction, or any useful understanding that could be imparted to that unit beforehand, is guilty of a grave crime against the soldiers he leads.  That a soldier should understand why he is fighting would not seem to be an arguable point. Yet I have heard commanders attempt to oversimplify this psychological problem with the assertion that soldiers fight for only a few simple and essentially local reasons. Among these they include pride in a unit, respect for the opinion of comrades, and blind devotion to an immediate leader. These things are important and the wise commander will neglect none of them in his effort to produce a first-class fighting unit in which all the members are so trained that chances of success—and individual survival—are raised to the maximum. But the American soldier, in spite of wisecracking, sometimes cynical speech, is an intelligent human being who demands and deserves basic understanding of the reasons why his country took up arms and of the conflicting consequences of victory or defeat. Von Steuben commented vividly on this point during the American Revolution. He explained ina letter to a friend that in Europe you tell a soldier to do thus, and he does it; and that in America it is necessary also to tell him why he does it.  Once the recruit of 1941 was inducted into the service the military leader had to shoulder almost exclusive responsibility for imparting such an understanding, but there was impli