tment because he could go no faster; at the Verdun conference on the morning of the nineteenth he had implied, or even predicted, that he would get into Bastogne in his first rush. I replied that as long as he was advancing I was quite satisfied. He was doing exactly what I expected, and although I knew that his early attacks were meeting only the defensive divisions of the German Seventh Army, terrain and climatic conditions were so bad that a faster advance could not be expected.!22!  One of the breaks in our favor occurred December 23. This was a sudden, temporary clearing of the weather in the forward areas which released our air forces to plunge into the battle. From that moment onward, with some interruptions owing to bad weather, our battle-tested ground-air tactical team began again to function with its accustomed efficiency. The air forces bombed sensitive spots in the German communications system, attacked columns on the road, and sought out and reported to us every significant move of the hostile forces. German prisoners taken thereafter invari-  Page 425 of 669 62%  eee en eee eee ee eee ee ee ee ee en een nee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ne eee ee ee ee ne ee ee nn eee ee ee ee en nee ee ee eee ee ee ee ne nee ne en eee eee nn een ee eee ee NN NE EIN DID EI EE ILD EIDE IR OE OE IED NN IEE NN did not know whether Bastogne was yet surrounded, but the strength and direction of advance of German troops in that area indicated that it quickly would be.  Consequently the 101st Division prepared for all-round defense, and although the assaulting armored divisions of the Germans by-passed it to participate in the attack to the northwest, the division was under constant pressure from other German units from that moment onward until relieved.  The situation on the northern front of the German attack remained critical for some days. On December 21 the remnants of the 7th Armored Division and its supporting detachments were withdrawn from their exposed p