land, Iceland, and Scotland eventually made it possible to ferry all our planes, even fighters, to Europe. Without that route, built in spite of diffi- culty, discouragement, and even great skepticism as to its usability, we could scarcely have maintained the forces we put into Europe.  Upon our arrival in England we met the United States commander, Major General James E. Chaney, who had been assigned there as a “military observer” before our entry into the war.!2! He and his small staff had been given no opportunity to familiarize themselves with the revolutionary changes that had since taken place in the United States and were completely at a loss in their earnest attempts to further the war effort. They were definitely in a back eddy, from which they could scarcely emerge except through a return to the United States. Up to that time American preoccupation with the Pacific war had been so great that the very existence of the London group was all but forgotten—the spotlight had not yet turned toward Europe.  Our inspection team spent ten days in the United Kingdom. I returned home to report to the Chief of Staff that in my opinion the individual to take charge of the American effort in Europe should be someone thoroughly indoctrinated in the plans of the United States Government, with a working knowledge of our capabilities in the production of land, air, and naval units and materials to support them in offensive fighting. In his auick wav General Marshall asked me who should take the ioh. and this time I had mv answer readv. I recommended General McNarnev. T knew that McNarnev had  Page 55 of 669 8%  See eee oe  eee  —a— = ee EE EO I present constant temptation to desert the chosen line of action in favor of another. This one was no exception—realization of the plan was far ‘removed from its s making, and countless occasions were  to arise when argument, blandishment, and exhortation would seek its abandonment. But the war in Europe was finally won because through