hought that he had been through the ultimate in terror and destruction—he had no thought of clearing out himself.  Troops and commanders were not experienced, but the boldness, courage, and stamina of General Anderson’s forces could not have been exceeded by the most battle-wise veterans. Physical conditions were almost unendurable. The mud deepened daily, confining all operations to the roads, long stretches of which practically disintegrated. Winter cold was already descending upon the Tunisian highlands. The bringing up of supplies and ammunition was a Herculean task. In spite of all this, and in spite of Anderson’s lack of strength—his whole force numbered only about three bri- gades of infantry and a brigade of obsolescent tanks—he pushed on through Souk-el-Khemis, Béja, and finally reached a point from which he could look down into the outskirts of Tunis.!Z1  Day by day, following the first contact, fighting grew more bitter, more stubborn, more difficult, and the enemy was more rapidly reinforced than were our own troops.  Very early I determined to take whatever additional risks might be involved in weakening our rear in order to strengthen Anderson. Shortage of transport prevented anything but movement by driblets—and the inherent dangers of such reinforcement are understood by the rawest of recruits. There was no lack of advisers to warn me concerning public reaction to “dissipation” of the American Armv! “How.” I was often asked. “did Pershing make his reputation in World War I?” What such advisers did not recall was Pershing’s famous statement when stark crisis faced the Allies in March 1918.  Page 142 of 669 21%  a a i  ee ee ad against conditions that were to plague us throughout that bitter winter. We landed on a hard-surfaced strip but then could not taxia a foot off the runway because of the bottomless ‘mud, Ahuge tractor appeared and, with men placing great planks under the wheels of our Fortress, pulled us off a few yards so that incoming craft wo