that the Southern Defense Command was activating a new headquarters on the coastal frontier along the Gulf of Mexico, where it was feared Axis submarine activity was likely to increase.  Outgoing instructions concerning defense in the Pacific were radioed to Australia and to our commanders on Christmas, Bora-Bora, Canton, and Fiji Islands. To Iceland a directive was sent that General Bonesteel would assume command of the forces there when American units reached two thirds of the total troop strength on the island. To General Wainwright we relayed President Roosevelt’s congratulations upon the Bataan garrison’s magnificent resistance to Japanese mass assaults during the previous week. To General MacArthur went a message asking information on the inclusion of Dutch officers on his staff in the Southwest Pacific.  The study of messages received and the preparation of those to be sent was interrupted constantly by conferences on a multitude of topics with representatives of all the armed services, with government officials and industrial leaders, and with Allied agents.  Most of the conferences were held in my own office. Out of them were developed decisions, many minor but some of great significance. Each required action at some point within the Operations Division or the War Department or at some remote point where troops of the Army were stationed. To insure that none would be forgotten and that records for subordinates would always be available, we had resorted to an automatic recording system that proved most effective.  The method was a complete wiring of my war room with dictaphones so placed as to pick up every word uttered in the room. Conversations were thus recorded on a machine just outside my office where a secretary instantly transcribed them into notes and memoranda for the benefit of my associates in the Operations Division. As a consequence, and often without further reference to me, the staff was able to translate every decision and agreement into appr