ck; on the other hand, the British felt that maximum concentration on the Italian effort might lead to an unexpected  Page 234 of 669 35%  advice of King and others who dreaded the consequences of Marshall’s withdrawal from the Combined Chiefs of Staff.151  During the admiral’s explanation General Marshall remained completely silent; he seemed embarrassed. Admiral King was generous enough to say that only because I was personally slated to take Marshall’s place in Washington could he view the plan with anything less than consternation, but that he still felt it a mistake to be shifting the key members of a winning team and declared he was going to renew his arguments to the President.  While the Prime Minister had spoken of this matter a few days earlier at Malta, this was the first time I had heard any American discuss the Overlord command, except on the basis of rumor and speculation. Admiral King’s story agreed in such exact detail with what the Prime Minister had told me that I accepted it as almost official notice that I would soon be giving up field command to re- turn to Washington.  Incidentally, the Prime Minister, although he was disappointed that Brooke would not get the Overlord assignment, had spoken with considerable satisfaction over the prospect of Marshall’s appointment. He said, “It is the President’s decision; we British will be glad to accept either you or Marshall.” Then he added, “Marshall’s appointment will certainly insure that the American Govern- ment will put everything available into the enterprise.” He hastily added that “they always did,” but said that this development would tend to attract even greater intensity. With his usual concern for personal feelings, Mr. Churchill assured me that he was delighted with the results so far achieved in the Mediterranean, but felt I would understand the wisdom of transferring the Mediterranean to British command so long as an American was to have command of the major operation across the Channel.  O