neficial results of that great maneuver were incalculable. It accustomed the troops to mass teamwork; it speeded up the process of eliminating the unfit; it brought to the specific attention of seniors certain of the younger men who were prepared to carry out the most difficult assignments in staff and command; and it developed among responsible leaders skill in the handling of large forces in the fields. Practical experience was gained in large-scale field supply of troops. No comparable peacetime attempt had ever been made by Americans in the road movement of food, fuel, and ammu- nition from railhead and depot to a constantly shifting front line. Advance planning, consequently, was thorough and intensive; as is always the case, it paid off.  “The essential effectiveness of supply,” General McNair, expert in the conduct and assessment of maneuvers, told the assembled staffs in a critique of the operations, “was an outstanding feature of the maneuvers. The magnitude of the problem alone was sufficient to warrant apprehension as to whether the troops would be supplied adequately. Combat commanders and the services alike deserve the highest praise for the results achieved.” The efficiency of American trucks in the movement of troops and supply, demonstrated so magnificently three years later in the race across France, was fore- cast on the roads of Louisiana in September 1941.  In the Third Army the officer directly responsible for supply efficiency was Lieutenant Colonel LeRoy Lutes. His brilliance in this type of work was to bring him, long before the end of this war, the three stars of a lieutenant general.  Many of the military faults revealed in the maneuvers, General McNair believed, had their root in discipline. “There is no question,” he said, “that many of the weaknesses developed in these maneuvers are repeated again and again for lack of discipline. Our troops are capable of the best of discipline. If they lack it, leadership is faulty. A commander who can