moranda for the benefit of my associates in the Operations Division. As a consequence, and often without further reference to me, the staff was able to translate every decision and agreement into appropriate action and to preserve such records as were necessary.  I made it a habit to inform visitors of the system that we used so that each would understand its purpose was merely to facilitate the execution of business. It saved me hours of work in the dictation of notes and directives and relieved my mind of the necessity of remembering every detail of fact and opinion that was presented to me.  On April 7 there was also a conference of the Combined Chiefs at which I had to represent OPD. Before we adjourned the discussion covered topics as specific as the allocation of planes originally intended for the Dutch East Indies while resistance continued there and as nebulous as the German intentions in Syria, Turkey, and Iraq.  By nightfall of April 7 an average day had been spent by everyone in the Operations Division. Directly or indirectly, we had been in touch with the principal sectors of our war effort and with many distant places that a year before had been only place names on a map.  As early as February 1942 we were worrying about the production of landing craft. Landing craft are primarily designed for offensive operations; it was difficult to develop a widespread interest in them when everyone was desperately concerned with defense. Although the Navy would have to take charge of building landing craft, it informed us that it could not even provide crews for them. General Somervell promptly retorted that he would do so. With characteristic energy he set about the task and performed it successfully. Months later, when he tried to transfer the organization to the  Maren rin van ain acninat tha auviaiue neanncitian that tha Marry aauld nat talen denftad man  Page 42 of 669 7%  i ~~ ae a a that General Bonesteel would assume command of the forces there when American