ent of the Operations Division went so well that my key assistants and I gradually gained more time for thinking and study. We could safely leave routine operations in the hands of a group of outstanding young staff officers, supervised by Brigadier Generals Thomas T. Handy, Matthew B. Ridgway, and Robert W. Crawford and Colonels John E. Hull and Albert C. Wedemeyer, all of whom came into deserved Army prominence before the end of the war.  In the security of victory and with the benefit of hindsight it is easy to point out instances in which the War Department made mistakes. But none of us, not even the most sincere and analytical, can recapture in his own heart and mind the fears and worries of those days. These were reflected in the intensity of emotional and mental strain to which responsible officials were subjected. Time was vital—decisions had to be made promptly on whatever estimates and information were available at the time.  For instance, there were projects for building a pipe line into Alaska and an international highway into South America. Both ideas were born out of the very lively fear that we could never produce the tankers and naval escorts needed for all war requirements, and that these two developments might prove the saviors of important areas and the means of preserving access to vital oil supplies. The Operations Division gave the snap judgment that neither would prove decisive in the war effort, but those who made the positive decision had the advice of experts in the particular problem of petrol- eum supply.  In the development of a concrete plan to implement the approved Allied policy of defeating the European Axis first, we attempted to study and analyze each step and each important factor so thoroughly that no opportunity, risk, or needed preparation would be overlooked. Always, in war, whether problems of tactics, strategy, or logistics are involved, concentration for positive, offensive purposes must be calculated in the light of minimu