t of victory participated in by both countries on a significant scale would come a sense of partnership not otherwise obtainable. The soldiers themselves were entitled to engage in an operation where for the first time conditions would favor instead of hamper and impede them. A real victory would give them a great élan for the sterner tests yet to come.  Alexander instantly concurred in my determination that the corps should be used in its entirety and as a unit. He proposed, and I agreed, that the best plan was to transfer the II Corps across the rear of the First Army and place it on the northern flank facing Bizerte. This involved a nicety in staff work in order to avoid entanglement with the British First Army’s supply lines, but Anderson’s and Patton’s staffs worked out the details so efficiently that no confusion resulted./40] It was a move that prewar staff colleges would have deemed an impossibility. But clockwork schedules and effective traffic control at crossroads characterized the whole movement.  MATEUR @  DJEDEIDA e  Page 179 of 669 27%  ALL ALL CILULE LY CUE Ul UIE ELT ALLS LOLLO ALINE LLUEEL IVAUTIL ER UITIEL Y o LLU IIL, GEMS L AL SUCAAMUCL ULSEAIMACU ail ALLALK LU UICARK LUE Le Pdoo Al PULMUMUUNR allt PUoll Saol Walt LUW aL LIE Ota. LIE Let UL the American II Corps was involved in this attack, but the entire operation was commanded by a British corps commander./37! The only American division available for participation was one that had had only sketchy training and had been involved for many weeks in protection of our line of communications, thus missing the opportunity to work together as a unit. The task assigned the American unit was a difficult one and the attack failed. A break-through was finally accomplished by British formations, but it was not particularly effective because the Germans had made good their retreat to the northward. General Sir John Crocker, the British corps commander, severely criticized to press representatives the failur