some ground but the 44th Division fought off the enemy and regained its positions. The 79th Division now came abreast of the 44th and the two of them made rapid progress toward Haguenau, which they took on December 12.113]  During the progress of these attacks I visited Devers to make a survey of the situation with him. On his extreme left there appeared to be no immediate advantage in pushing down into the Rhine plain. I directed him to turn the left corps of Patch’s army northward to bring it into line connecting with the right flank of Patton’s army, on the western slopes of the Vosges. That corps was to support the Third Army in its attacks against the Saar, which were soon to be renewed.  On the remainder of Devers’ front it was of course desirable to close up to the Rhine as rapidly as possible and then, by moving northward, to gain the river bank all the way northward to the Saar. However. I narticularlv cautioned Devers not to start this northward movement. on the east of the Vosges Mountains. until he had cleaned out all enemv formations in his rear.  Page 392 of 669 57%  ATTLITIOULALELY SOUUMLIL UL LIE DIitlols ALE DIAUICY, ULL UELUUE!L £eo, UIUUSAIL LEILU LATTE CHIE UO. AN AEAEE SAL TILY ULIMEL GOMEL AL OL POUL LS UT INOVERIUEL 10, DIAUIOY LEME WE 1ls ULETISIVE LUW alt CITE NILE Aik the northern part of his sector. The attack was carried out by the Ninth and First Armies and was preceded by a heavy bombing of the enemy and by artillery bombardment. Twelve hundred and four American and 1,188 British heavy bombers participated, the operation being another example of the extent to which we were then using the heavy bomber to intervene effectively in the ground bat- tle.[9]  These attacks initially employed fourteen divisions, and the number was soon increased to seventeen. Nevertheless, progress was slow and the fighting intense. On the right flank of this attack the First Army got involved in the Hurtgen Forest, the scene of one of the most bitterly contest