ly. It was rumored that he was out of favor—that for some reason he had fallen from the high place he held in Russian affections and popular es- teem during the late months of the war.  One of the speculative reasons given for his virtual disappearance was his known friendship with me. I cannot believe that such was the case because, in spite of that friendship, he always seemed to be profoundly convinced of the essential rectitude of the Communist theory. He knew that I was an uncompromising foe of Communism because I believed that it was synonymous with dictatorship; he would listen patiently when I said that I hated everything that smacked of statism, and that our whole Western tradition was devoted to the idea of personal liberty. But his own adherence to the Communistic doctrine seemed to come from inner conviction and not from any outward compulsion.  The Russians are generous. They like to give presents and parties, as almost every American who has served with them can testify. In his generous instincts, in his love of laughter, in his devotion to a comrade, and in his healthy, direct outlook on the affairs of workaday life, the ordinary Russian seems to me to bear a marked similarity to what we call an “average American.”  The existence of a personal friendship and understanding with Marshal Zhukov did not, however, eliminate the incidents and conflicts which were always irritating and exasperating members of my staff. Occasionally these were serious. Every railway train and every automobile that we sent into Berlin had to pass through Russian territory. Several times these were molested or even robbed by  ee a Oe Oe ce cy ee 2e ai See! A  Page 560 of 669 81%  clubs. [he magazine picture had been taken 1n sucn a way that, with seeming intent, the Generalissimos portrait was photographed in most unfortunate and undignined surroundings. I his literally infuriated the marshal. He turned to me and said: “If a picture of you like this one should appear in a Russi