wing him the projected site asked for an estimate on the time it would take to construct an operational strip. The answer was a nonchalant “Ten days.” This struck Park—who is a human dynamo himself—as so preposterous that he thought himself the victim of a joke. However, upon noting the thoughtful way in which the en-  Page 200 of 669 30%  a —  These and other reasons led to an agreement which, in effect, left exploitation of the Sicilian operation to my judgment—but expected me to take advantage of any favorable opportunity to rush into Italy—and which emphasized the great value of the Foggia airfields.[211 Since a major port was necessary to sustain us in Italy, the city of Naples was named as the other principal locality desired by the Allies.  At this conference long discussions were carried on regarding the desirability of bombing the marshaling yards near Rome. All agreed that the Eternal City should not be uselessly damaged—indeed, this was the policy we pursued with respect to all the relics of the ancient civilization of Italy—but it was common knowledge that the Germans were taking advantage of our restraint to use Rome as a principal link in their communication system. No final answer was then resolved but later we were authorized to bomb the yards, taking particular care to avoid damage to Rome and the Vatican City. [22]  The broad outline of the Sicilian campaign was announced to our press representatives one month before it took place.!231 This unprecedented step was taken, paradoxically, to maintain secrecy.  I felt I had to stop speculation by war reporters as to the future intentions of the Allied Force. I knew the Germans were watching us intently and it is astonishing how expert a trained Intelligence staff becomes in piecing together odd scraps of seemingly unimportant information to construct a picture of enemy plans. At the moment northern Africa was a hive of preparation for the Sicilian invasion. At every possible spot along the beaches we we