ively against the great European fortress. Meanwhile America, carrying the war alone to Japan, would always be faced with the necessity, after a Pacific victory, of undertaking the conquest of Hitler’s empire with prostrated or badly weakened Allies. Further, and vitally important, it was not known at that time how long Russia could hold out against the repeated attacks of the Wehrmacht. No effort against Japan could possibly help Russia stay in the war. The only way aid could be given that country, aside from ship- ping her supplies, was by engaging in the European conflict in the most effective way possible. Finally, the defeat of the European Axis would liberate British forces to apply against Japan.  As far as I know, the wisdom of the plan to turn the weight of our power against the European enemy before attempting an all-out campaign against Japan has never been questioned by any real student of strategy. However—and here was the rub—it was easy enough to state this purpose as a principle but it was to prove difficult indeed to develop a feasible plan to implement the idea and to secure its approval by the military staffs of two nations.  Within the War Department staff basic plans for European invasion began slowly to take shape during January and February 1942.!20| As always, time was the critical element in the problem. Yet everywhere delay was imposed upon us! It profited nothing to wail about unpreparedness. It is a characteristic of military problems that they yield to nothing but harsh reality; things must be reduced to elemental simplicity and answers must be clear, almost obvious. Everywhere men and materials were needed. The wave of Japanese aggression had not then reached full tide, and everything upon which we in the United States could lay our hands had necessarily to go to the Southwest Pacific to prevent complete inundation. Aside from preserving lines of air and sea communications to Australia, we had to hold the Indian bastion at all costs; ot