ne man to sleep in the daytime so that another could have his bunk during the night.... I never afterward heard of a single complaint...” The Queen Elizabeth Brings Them Home  (Photograph by U.S. Coast Guard)  SURVIVING BOMBS AND HITLER But no edifice, however sacred, will survive atomic war. “Even the bombed ruins of Germany...provide but faint warning of what future war could mean to the people of the earth.” The Cathedral Stands Amid Cologne’s Rubble (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  PARTNERS IN VICTORY “The Russians are generous. They like to give presents and parties...the ordinary Russian seems to me to bear a marked similarity to what we call an ‘average American. East and West Celebrate at Torgau (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  »»  y Chapter 1  PRELUDE TO WAR —_———_—_———————————————————————s  IN THE ALLIED HEADQUARTERS AT reims, Field Marshal Jodl signed the instrument of German surrender on May 7, 1945. At midnight of the next day there ended, in Europe, a conflict that had been raging since September 1, 1939.  Between these two dates millions of Europeans had been killed. All Europe west of the Rhine had, with minor exceptions, lived for more than four years under the domination of an occupying army. Free institutions and free speech had disappeared. Economies were broken and industry prostrated. In Germany itself, after years of seeming invincibility, a carpet of destruction and desolation had spread over the land. Her bridges were down, her cities in ruins, and her great industrial capacity practically paralyzed. Great Britain had exhausted herself economically and financially to carry on her part of the war; the nation was almost entirely mobilized, with everybody of useful age, men and women alike, either in the armed forces or engaged in some type of production for war. Russian indus- try west of the Volga had been almost obliterated.  America had not been spared: by V-J Day in the Pacific, 322,188 of her youth had been lost in battle or