did one of them urge me to vary any detail of my planned operations merely for the purpose of eliminating this scourge.  On June 18, Montgomery still felt that conditions permitted the early capture of Caen. His directive of that date stated: “It is clear that we must now capture Caen and Cherbourg, as & first step in the full development of our plans. Caen is really the key to Cherbourg....” In the same directive he gave the following instructions to the British Army: “The immediate task of this Army will be to cap- ture Caen.” The final sentence of that order was: “I shall hope to see both Caen and Cherbourg captured by June 24.”|81  On the left the German armor and defensive strength continued to defeat our intentions, but the port of Cherbourg fell on June 26, just twenty days after the landing. General Collins had conducted against it a relentless offensive and as a result of the operation justified his nickname, “Lightning Joe.” The final assault was materially assisted by heavy and accurate naval gunfire.  In the matter of luck we had enjoyed a rough medium between Bradley’s minimum and maximum estimates of the influence of this imponderable factor. Our good luck was largely represented in the degree of surprise that we achieved by landing on Utah Beach, which the Germans considered unsuited to major amphibious operations, and by the effective action of the two airborne divisions, the 82d and the 101st, which had landed almost in the center of the peninsula. Our bad luck was in the hurricane that struck us on June 19. It stopped for a period of four days nearly all landing activ- ity on the beaches and therefore interfered seriously with every operation; it was so fierce in character as to render offensive fighting extremely difficult.  During that time sea communications between the United Kingdom and the Continent were completely interrupted and it was almost impossible to land an airplane on the small landing strips we had constructed in the bridgehead. Th