team. General Marshall approved my request for Brigadier General Walter B. Smith as my chief of staff. He was a godsend—a master of detail with clear comprehension of main issues. Serious, hard-working, and loyal, he proved equally as capable in difficult conference as he was in professional activity. Strong in character and abrupt by instinct, he could achieve harmony without appeasement, and earned for himself an enviable standing throughout the armies and governments of Europe. He reached London on September 7 and there began a personal friendship and official association which lasted throughout the war.  While plans visualized an eventual force to be numbered in the millions, I was determined to avoid the curse of early over-organization in the ground forces. To begin with, we brought over, as the highest ground headquarters, only the II Corps, to the command of which I assigned General Clark.[121I knew that during the months that must elapse before troops and supplies could be accumulated in sufficient numbers for a maior attack we would have time to bring over the several armv headquarters we would need. Thus was avoided the confusion certain to ensue from the immediate presence  Page 62 of 669 9%  febrtlo  The combat planes enumerated here comprise only those actually with squadrons. The total of the landing craft, merchant ships, and naval fighting vessels was more than 6,000. This figure does not include “ducks” or swimming tanks.|81  There were heavy contingents of base troops, transport units, ground crews, hospitals, and every type of repair and maintenance organization. The Allied strength in land, sea, and air on that day was 2,876,439 officers and men assigned to the Expeditionary Forces. Added to this were forty-one divisions which would be ready to sail from the United States with their equipment and supplies at as rapid a rate as ports in Britain, and those that could be gained on the Continent, could receive them. Moreover, ten additional division