lways planned, on Bradley’s front, to make our main crossings in the region where Patton had seized his bridgeheads, since this was the most suitable area from which to launch the southern prong of the great double offensive that was expected to surround the Ruhr. From Remagen we could of course turn the First Army to the north and northeast to assault the Ruhr directly. This would, however, involve frontal attack across the Sieg and would not accomplish the great and complete encirclement of that area which was an essential feature of our basic plan. Consequently Bradley and I had early decided to launch the troops out of the Remagen bridgehead to the southeastward to join up with Patton near Giessen.!111 Bradley would then have his force concentrated and we were certain that his further success would be swift and sure.  On the twenty-sixth of March the advance out of the Remagen bridgehead began. The V Corps, now under Major General Clarence R. Huebner, thrust rapidly to the southeast and overran Limburg. These great converging thrusts by Hodges and Patton completed the demoralization of the enemy in that region.  Middleton’s VIII Corps, of the Third Army, was still west of the Rhine, lying along a stretch north of Braubach where, because of the rugged banks, bridging operations against an enemy looked almost impossible. Nevertheless, the VIII Corps made the attempt and, in spite of some sharp initial resistance, was successful. It was thus able to push forward directly and join in the great advance. Frankfurt was cleared by March 29 and armored spearheads were thrust forward in the direction of Kassel.[12)  Still farther south, in the Sixth Army Group, Patch’s Seventh Army joined the attack. While that army had been engaged in the Saar operation the Rhine defenses in its region wdy considered sufficiently strong to require the use of airborne troops in order to assure a successful river crossing. For this purpose the U.S. 13th Airborne Division was directed to pl