a necessary appearance in the United States under War Department orders. With this in- vitation came an expression of my government’s hope that I could accept.  The Generalissimo suggested that a particular date to be included in my visit was August 12, a day set aside for a National Sports Parade in Moscow. I was pleased at this chance to see a country that I had never before visited, but I was even more pleased by the implication that the Soviet Government was as interested in developing friendly contacts as we were. I promptly accepted and was in- formed that Marshal Zhukov would be my official host for my stay in Russia and would accompany me from Berlin to Moscow.L1!  When news of my impending visit got around headquarters, literally scores of individuals submitted personal requests to go with me. Out of consideration for Moscow’s limited accommodations I took on this journey only General Clay and my old friend Brigadier General T. J. Davis. As an aide for this one trip, I wanted my lieutenant son John, who had been serving, for some months, in the Euro- pean theater. His commander approved. Master Sergeant Leonard Dry, who served with me all through the war, also was in the party.  Upon arrival in Moscow we were housed at the American Embassy with my good friend Averell Harriman, who was then ambassador. His hostess was his charming daughter Kathleen. During a long war association I had formed a high opinion of Mr. Harriman’s abilities and public-spirited attitude and was delighted to have him as my mentor and guide during an important visit to a coun- try in which I was a complete stranger.  Our first conference was with General Antonov, Chief of Staff of the Red Army. He took me into his war room and explained the dispositions of the Red armies in the Far East and showed me the exact plan of campaign, which had been initiated only a few days before. Everywhere in the Manchurian area things were going according to plan and Antonov was confident of a quick and