y the action of the Free French forces inside Paris. Throughout France the Free French had been of inestimable value in the campaign. They were particularly active in Brittany, but on every portion of the front we secured help from them in a multitude of ways. Without their great assistance the liberation of France and the defeat of the enemy in western Europe would have consumed a much longer time and meant greater losses to ourselves. So when the Free French forces inside the city staged their uprising it was necessary to move rapidly to their support. Information indicated that no great battle would take place and it was believed that the entry of one or two Allied divisions would accomplish the liberation of the city.  a ne  TROYES  US.THIRD ARMY |e nnn  e AUXERRE  SOMBERNON p}@ BESANCON SEPT. IN SEPT.  Page 351 of 669 51%  LHe WISGOIT OL PELostills iti Lie Plall. FLOM) Ue VEE tld VEE all ALCEII AUVOCALE OF LilIs SECOLUALY ALLACK AllU TIE VET iil ali LIE 1OTIE PELIOG OF CISCUsoslOll WOULE I dETee LO ils CLT AtlOl LPO OUL plans. In this position I was supported by General Marshall.[5!  All these arguments and discussions were now definitely things of the past and we were assured that very shortly there would be a force, to be constituted as General Devers’ Sixth Army Group, of at least ten American and French divisions in southern France driving northward to join us and that these would be followed quickly by reinforcing divisions from the United States. There was no development of that period which added more decisively to our advantages or aided us more in accomplishing the final and complete defeat of the German forces than did this secondary attack com- ing up the Rhone Valley.  Because of the distance of General Patch’s troops from my headquarters and the lack of communications, it had been arranged that General Wilson was to retain operational control of that force until it was possible for me to establish the machinery for command. This date we estimated a