re easily and economically gained than the previous one. Continuation of the process finally results in demoralization  of the enemy. Thereupon speed must be redoubled—relentless and speedy pursuit is the most profitable action in war. 31%  Up to that moment no ampnibdious attack 1n Nistory Nad approached this one 1n size. Along mules OF Coast line there were hundreds Of vessels and sMalil boats alioat and antiike Mes OF advancing troops ashore. Overhead were flights of protecting fighters.  The point we wanted to capture at the earliest possible moment was Messina, the enemy port in the northeastern end of the island, directly across the narrow strait from the Italian mainland. Through this port almost all enemy supplies would have to flow, and once it was secured the position of the garrison on the island would be hopeless. The enemy of course saw this simple truth as clearly as we and rapidly gathered up his forces to bar the progress of Montgomery, who was closest to Messina. In this effort the enemy was tremendously favored by the ground. Mount Etna dominates the whole northeast corner of the island and the Eighth Army’s route to the northward lay over a narrow road along the seaward shoulder of the mountain. Montgomery’s attack initially proceeded swiftly and quickly overran the eastern beaches to include the Nazi port of Syracuse, most important to our supply plan. From there toward Catania opposition grew increasingly stern. From July 17 onward the Eighth Army lay in the Catania plain facing the Mount Etna bastion with small prospect of penetrating the passes to the northward./4| Montgomery began to build up his reinforcements so as to throw an encircling column to the westward as his only hope of forcing his way onward to the ultimate goal.  The plain was infected with malaria. In no other area during the Mediterranean campaign did we suffer equal percentage losses from disease. At other points in Sicily we likewise had a serious casualty list from malaria,