f subjects. I began the practice of holding short, informal conferences with the press, for the purpose of discussing our mutual prob- lems and finding common solutions for them. I insisted that they occupy positions as quasi-staff officers on my staff, and I respected their collective responsibilities in the war as they did mine.  My first press conference had a curious result. Prior to my arrival in England censorship had been established by American headquarters on stories involving minor difficulties between Negro troops and other soldiers, or civilians. These incidents frequently involved social contacts between our Negro soldiers and British girls. The British population, except in large cities and among wealthy classes, lacks the racial consciousness which is so strong in the United States. The small-town British girl would go to a movie or dance with a Negro quite as readily as she would with anyone else, a practice that our white soldiers could not understand. Brawls often resulted and our white soldiers were further bewildered when they found that the British press took a firm stand on the side of the Negro.  When I learned at the press conference that stories of this kind were on the censored list I at once revoked the order and told the pressmen to write as they pleased—urging them only not to lose their perspective. To my astonishment, several reporters spoke up to ask me to retain the ban, giving me a number of arguments in support of their recommendations. They said that troublemakers would exaggerate the importance of the incidents and that the reports, taken up at home, would cause domestic dissension. I thanked them but stuck to my point, with the result that little real excite- ment was ever caused by ensuing stories. It was a lesson I tried always to remember.  Progress in these matters of administration, preparation, training, planning, had to go forward simultaneously. An early deficiency in our wartime Army involved a dismaying lack of compre-