r Chief Marshal Douglas, General Spaatz, Admiral Mountbatten, and myself, together with groups from our respective staffs. No one was in authority so no decisive action could be planned. Dozens of different ideas affecting strategy, tactics, organization, and supply were discussed interminably. These discussions were complicated by service and personal prejudices and by varying convictions regarding the usefulness of the air in ground operations.  But through these studies and conferences the Americans became more fully acquainted with the details of the strategic, tactical, and logistic decisive scale. We gained access to all the British intelligence and learned the exact strength and commitments of British land, sea, and air forces. Fur cant amount, was impossible; they had already organized their full strength, including women between the ages of eighteen and fifty-two.  We learned a number of things that caused us to revise radically our earlier general ideas of the operation. The first of these was that the British Air Force was not equipped either in types and numbers of planes or in training of personnel to carry out the intensive preparatory work by air that we deemed a prerequisite to successful invasion. The second was that the British fleet, necessarily holding itself in reserve at all times to meet any threat of a sortie by the German surface fleet, could not provide the amount of direct support and the intensity of naval bombardment that would be  the regular  problems involved in an invasion of Europe on a ther mobilization of British power, in any signifi-  Page 78 of 669 12%  Still thinking of an operation in early 1943, when the British would necessarily provide the major portion of the forces during initial stages, I replied, “In America I have heard much of aman who has been intensively studying amphibious operations for many months. I understand that his position is Chief of Combined Operations, and I think his name is Admiral Mountbatten.!22! An