allowed the French Army to concentrate heavily on the northern flank of the line to oppose any German advances through Belgium. Militarily, they felt, their difficulties  came ahoit hacaricea af internal nolitical wealnaccac One French hicinaceman caid ta me “We defaated aurcalvac fram within: wa tried ta annace a fair-daw work week acainct the Garman’e civ- ar  Page 379 of 669 55%  EMeiL TOW UL LIE UULSIME WULTE Wao LLELELOU LU LLLO TE) LILLUU EL IN ASIMCULILILUMEM TEWOPAPELS ALM LAUIUS. Ulli d CIAMUCOLITIE Udols LITCY Ul, Ul CUULSE, LECEIVE SUIS MOLALLA) Distioll ALM SAsdiet ial broadcasting stations but such news could not be freely circulated to the whole population and those who listened were, if discovered, subject to stern punishment. With the coming of the Allies popu- lar exuberance sometimes was so emotional as to embarrass our soldiers, but there was no room left for doubt concerning the people’s great joy in deliverance from the Nazi yoke.  The re-established governments of western Europe co-operated wholeheartedly with the Allied high command. Labor and other assistance were made available to us so far as the capacity of each country would permit. There were, of course, dissident elements. Men who, with arms in their hands, had long served in the underground, who were accustomed by stealth and violence to accomplish their purposes of sabotage, did not easily adapt themselves again to the requirements of social order. In some cases they wanted to maintain and magnify their power, to become the dominant and controlling element in the liberated country. While these things caused some local, and at times worrisome, difficulty, they were overshadowed by the eagerness of the population to earn again, under free institutions, their own living.  Because France had been divided into occupied and unoccupied segments by the armistice of 1940 and because the underground in that country was not only strong but very aggressive, more than normal difficulties were enco