cupied in a professional sequel to the war—the study and evaluation of its lessons.  The material confronting us was monumental in its bulk, and in its content unique. The campaigns in the Mediterranean and in Europe had no prior parallel in the history of warfare; throughout them, the United States Army had engaged in operations without comparable precedent since its establishment in 1775.  For the operations in Africa and Europe there had been involved the organization of a vast ground force. Built around forty-seven infantry divisions and their artillery, it included sixteen armored divisions and four airborne divisions, a mountain division, four seaborne brigades for the operation of landing craft, besides amphibious and combat engineer units, brigades, and separate battalions of anti-aircraft units, field artillery and tank destroyer battalions by the score. Equally stupendous was the growth of American air strength in those two theaters; between our entry into the war and the German surrender our fighter planes had won superiority over the Luftwaffe and our bombers had penetrated every defense which the German had raised against them.  Intercontinental communications, transport and administrative systems were established and a military government structure was built to control millions of enemy nationals. Conduct of operations required co-ordination with the civil ministries of foreign nations organized differently from our own, combined staff work with Allied armies, new methods of strategic command within our own military establishment, and diplomatic negotiations seldom entrusted to a combat force. No prewar definition of the Army’s mission could adequately have forecast the scope or ramifications of its job against the European Axis. From study of both achievements and mistakes much could be learned.  Purely military operations constituted a vast and continuous offensive, prolonged over many months, that required assessment and evaluation of its lessons. T