rce pulled out with no loss of personnel or machines and with immaterial losses in fuel and other supplies. Just  Page 166 of 669 25%  I departed from Algiers just after midnight on February 12 and, holding several conferences on the way, arrived at General Fredendall’s headquarters on the afternoon of the thirteenth.[15] It was my first trip as a four-star general, to which temporary grade I was promoted on February 11.1 was still a lieutenant colonel in the Regular Army.  Second Corps Headquarters had established itself in a deep and almost inaccessible ravine, a few miles east of Tebessa. It was a long way from the battle front, but, considering the length of the lines and the paucity of roads, it was probably as good a site for the main headquarters as was available. When I reached the headquarters there was a din of hammers and drills. Upon inquiring as to the cause, I learned that the corps engineers were engaged in tunneling into the sides of the ravine to provide safe quarters for the staff. I quietly asked whether the engineers had first assisted in preparing front-line defenses but a young staff officer, apparently astonished at my ignorance, said, “Oh, the divisions have their own engineers for that!” It was the only time, during the war, that I ever saw a divisional or higher headquarters so concerned over its own safety that it dug itself underground shelters.  In company with Lieutenant Colonel Russell F. (Red) Akers, one of Fredendall’s staff officers, I promptly started on an all-night inspection of the front lines. At that time the II Corps consisted of the U.S. 1st Armored Division, the 1st Infantry Division, with the U.S. 34th Division assembling in the area. The 9th Division was under orders to join when it could come up.!151  I found a number of things that were disturbing. The first of these was a certain complacency, illustrated by an unconscionable delay in perfecting defensive positions in the passes. Lack of training and experience on the p