e 27 of 669 4%  Iasked him, “When can you be ready to report for duty?”  “Now.”  “Be back here at midnight,” I instructed him, “prepared for extended field service.”  Although he seemed to change color slightly, he never batted an eye but replied, “That will give me time to see my lawyers and change my will.”  Immediately he was recommended for the grade of brigadier general. Knowing that he would be confirmed as such before he could reach Australia, Gerow and I each donated a star from our uniforms, and—pinning them on the ex-Secretary’s shoulders—sent him happily from our office. At one o'clock that night he was on a plane for Australia.  For the transport of a few very critical items the Navy provided submarines. The Philippines garrison was always short of proper fuses for their anti-aircraft and artillery, but we did succeed in sending them small quantities by this means.|141  We began the assembly in Australia of fifty-two dive bombers, which we hoped to be able to fly to the Philippines via staging fields on the intervening islands.115! While all this was going on we continued to rush driblets of ground reinforcements to many threatened spots in the Pacific, from Alaska southward. They went to Hawaii, the Fiji Islands, New Caledonia, Tonga Tabu, New Zealand, Australia, and many smaller places.  To give one example of the desperate extremes to which we were reduced: I learned by sheer accident late one evening that the Navy, in order to place a small garrison at Efate in the New Hebrides, considered an important spot, had directed bluejackets to be detached from a carrier and temporarily used for the purpose. This was unthinkable. Each of our few carriers was worth its weight in gold. By scurrying about we determined, within a few minutes, that an Army battalion was available in the critical area to do the job, and it was moved in,!16I but this was the type of thing to which all of us had to resort. The incident, small as it was, also brought home to me the sk