fore assigned Colonel William K. Harrison to investigate its organizational weaknesses and search out a remedy for them. Although the studies were completed by early winter and a corrective plan tentatively adopted, the attack on Pearl Harbor delayed its execution. The task of actual reorganization was now placed in the hands of Major General Joseph T. McNarney, possessed of an analytical mind and a certain ruthlessness in execution which was absolutely necessary to uproot entrenched bureaucracy  and otenamlinn and simnlifer nennnduens  Page 34 of 669 5%  $  ee Ne” ~  eee a ~— 2 Every troop and cargo ship upon which we could lay our hands was dispatched hurriedly to the Southwest Pacific. But we had so little!  The transport of personnel without heavy equipment did not involve elaborate arrangements when fast ships were available. These vessels depended solely on their speed for safety against the submarine. The British gave us the use of some of the fastest and largest passenger ships afloat. Among these was the Queen Mary.  One day we dispatched her, without escort, from an Eastern port in the United States to Australia, loaded with 14,000 American troops. It would have been only bad luck of the worst kind if a submarine had got close enough to attack her successfully. Moreover, we believed that even if one torpedo should strike her she would probably have enough remaining speed to escape from any sub- marine of the type then possessed by the Germans. However, such probabilities could provide no assurance that she would get through.  On that trip the Queen Mary had to put into a Brazilian port for fuel. We were horrified to intercept a radio from an Italian in Rio who reported her presence to the Italian Government and upon her departure actually gave the direction upon which she set out to sea. For the next week we lived in terror, fearing that the Axis might be able to plant across her path such a nest of submarines in the South Atlantic as to make it almost imp