lands.|151 While all this was going on we continued to rush driblets of ground reinforcements to many threatened spots in the Pacific, from Alaska southward. They went to Hawaii, the Fiji Islands, New Caledonia, Tonga Tabu, New Zealand, Australia, and many smaller places.  To give one example of the desperate extremes to which we were reduced: I learned by sheer accident late one evening that the Navy, in order to place a small garrison at Efate in the New Hebrides, considered an important spot, had directed bluejackets to be detached from a carrier and temporarily used for the purpose. This was unthinkable. Each of our few carriers was worth its weight in gold. By scurrying about we determined, within a few minutes, that an Army battalion was available in the critical area to do the job, and it was moved in,|16] but this was the type of thing to which all of us had to resort. The incident, small as it was, also brought home to me the sketchy and unsatisfactory character of our contacts with the Navy.  Mr. Quezon, then in Corregidor with General MacArthur, radioed to President Roosevelt in early February a plea for him to seek the neutralization of the Philippines, with each contestant agreeing to withdraw its troops.!1ZI In view of our helpless situation there at that time, neutralization of the islands would have been an immediate military advantage and would, of course, have prevented tremendous suffering and privation on the part of the defending garrison and the population. However, its public proposal would not only have been greeted with scorn by the Japanese: such a confession of weakness would have had unfortunate psvchological reverberations. None of us believed for a moment that the provosal represented a betraval on the part of President Ouezon. We felt  Page 27 of 669 4%  Iasked him, “When can you be ready to report for duty?”  “Now.”  “Be back here at midnight,” I instructed him, “prepared for extended field service.”  Although he seemed to change colo