ents of numerous countries whose homelands had been previously overrun by the enemy.  Co-operation with the Soviet forces was, unhappily, not so close. But her forces were widely separated, geographically, from those of the Western Allies, and the flaw in over-all teamwork did not impair the march to victory. Even so, if that country could have been as closely knit into the team as were the others, victory would probably have been achieved earlier and the peace would have rested on a more secure foundation.  Although Allied unity, and the ways and means of attaining it, constituted the principal war lesson, we within the Army were primarily concerned with the lessons that affected purely military concepts and principles. If every engagement could be studied, while the memory of it was still fresh in the minds of those who fought it, and both its tactical achievements and errors were subject to direct scrutiny, we could add an immense store of factual knowledge to the science of warfare—the speedy attainment of military victory at minimum expense in lives.  For this purpose we organized immediately after the cessation of hostilities a large board of the most experienced and at the same time most progressive officers we could find. The board was originally headed by General Gerow, who was later replaced by General Patton.1)  In order that the War Department might have permanently available all the facts, so far as we could unearth them, and the opinions of the men most experienced in the actual business of fighting and of battlefield maintenance and administration, the board was provided with every possible facility and was given all the time it desired for the completion of its task.  Foremost among the military lessons was the extraordinary and growing influence of the airplane in the waging of war. The European campaign almost daily developed new and valtvable uses for air power. Its effect in the weakening of German capacity was decisively felt on both fronts, the