ce I went over all details carefully, both with Montgomery and with Alexander. I believed then, and believe now, that a headlong attack against the Mount Etna position, with the re- sources available in the middle of July, would have been defeated. And it is well to remember that caution and timidity are not synonymous, just as boldness and rashness are not!  Among the American leaders, Bradley had done so well in Sicily that when General Marshall, toward the end of August, asked my recommendation on the Army commander for the United States troops in Great Britain, I answered: “The truth of the matter is that you should take Bradley and moreover I will make him available on any date you select.” Shortly thereafter General Bradley assumed  A detachment from the Eighth Army soon after arrived and on that date the last remaining element of the enemy forces  Page 214 of 669 32%  Early on August 1/ the U.o. 3d Division pushed into the town or Messina.-v! A detachment from the Elghth Army soon after arrived and on that date the last remaining element of the enemy forces on the island was eliminated.  In the original study of the Sicilian operation Alexander had faintly hoped that the forces landing on the east of the island would quickly push to the northward, close to Messina. There they could effectively block the easy avenue for enemy evacuation, and would also be in a position to make a possible surprise landing across the narrow strait and thus assist in a speedy transfer of our troops to the Italian mainland later on.  Montgomery’s operations on the east coast had begun auspiciously, and for a few days it looked as if Alexander’s hope might be realized. But by the time Montgomery was ready to assault the natural defensive barriers running from Mount Etna to the sea the enemy had brought up too much strength. The chance for a coup de main passed, if it ever had existed. Thereafter the northward path of the Eighth Army was fully as difficult from the terrain viewpoint