r any governmental work. In much of our necessary public utility work it was only the local Nazis who had sufficient knowledge to be of assistance. The question at once arose as to whether we should use them or non-Nazis, who knew little or nothing about the particular facility. It was difficult, but as quickly as possible we got rid of party members and trained others for necessary operation of public works, public utilities, sanitary service, posts, telegraphs, and telephones.  The life of a military government officer was never dull. Usually he had been commissioned in the Army because of his administrative or technical background. But with the housekeeping of a whole town or city on his shoulders, the officer had to meet every conceivable kind of problem in human relations, to keep local peace and order while ferreting out those wanted by the Allies for trial, to begin restoration of productive activity while carrying out his share of broad Allied policy as it was given to us from Washington in a document known as JCS/1067.113] He was often forced, in the beginning, to act as a referee in personal feuds. As soon as the Germans learned of our de-Nazification program every complaint by an individual against another was on the basis of “He is a Nazi.” In the chaos of postwar Germany errors were inescapable, and this applied to features of general policy as well as to details of execution by local functionaries. But by and large, the military government group of Americans did a remarkable job—one that reflected their sincerity and intelligence as well as the soundness of their special training.  Lieutenant General Lucius Du B. Clay came to Europe in April 1945 to act as my deputy for the military government of Germany. For a brief period, earlier in the war, he had performed invaluable services in the European theater in our logistics system. From the beginning he agreed with me that a civil agency of government should eventually take over the control of Germany, an