t a British family, inspired by a determination to show real hospitality, was likely to utilize an entire week’s rations to entertain an American over Sunday. At once we encouraged visiting soldiers to carry rations with them on these home visits, while a publicity campaign explained the matter to the British hosts, so as to save their pride and preclude embarrassment. In every direction where we expected trouble we instituted preventive measures—generally with success. The keynote of the campaign was avoidance of mawkish sentimentality and the basing of all our programs on facts—with emphasis on opportunity for personal discovery of facts. Everyone who occupied a responsible position in Britain during that time will always have a feeling of gratitude and admiration for the almost universal spirit of co-operation, tolerance, and friendship displayed by both sides.  -_ c aa 1 1 woud aoe a ae ~ nit nae a cata 1 . na aaa ne!  Page 64 of 669 10%  ALI WES OU LILLE OL CEL AERIALS SES CALS PRUE PLUM AC VEL MCC ALILS LULY SM GA Merit Us tile Valuit.  All these preliminary organizational tasks were normal to such enterprises. They had been anticipated and therefore were soon disposed of, so far as immediate needs were concerned. Another task for which we had to organize very specifically was almost unique in character. It involved the fitting of our training, building, and organizational activities into British life.  The plan to bring large fighting forces to Great Britain required those highly populated islands to ready themselves for the absorption of 2,000,000 Americans and to provide for them necessary facilities, including training grounds, in which to prepare for the great invasion. England’s insufficiency in food supplies had already led to a program of placing even submarginal ground under intensive cultivation, while, to save fuel and power, all unnecessary transportation and power facilities had been eliminated. Our friendly invasion would vastly increase the stra