d otandina This ta anna Tt and ahaian an anlistad man in a haonital ume anthinea  Page 214 of 669 32%  war about the only criterion that can be applied to a commander is his accumulated record of victory and defeat. If regularly successful, he gets credit for his skill, his judgment as to the possible and the impossible, and his leadership. Those critics of Montgomery who assert that he sometimes failed to attain the maximum must at least admit that he never once sustained a major defeat. In this particular instance I went over all details carefully, both with Montgomery and with Alexander. I believed then, and believe now, that a headlong attack against the Mount Etna position, with the re- sources available in the middle of July, would have been defeated. And it is well to remember that caution and timidity are not synonymous, just as boldness and rashness are not!  Among the American leaders, Bradley had done so well in Sicily that when General Marshall, toward the end of August, asked my recommendation on the Army commander for the United States troops in Great Britain, I answered: “The truth of the matter is that you should take Bradley and moreover I will make him available on any date you select.” Shortly thereafter General Bradley assumed his new duties in England.[111  One of the valuable outcomes of the campaign was the continued growth and development of the spirit of comradeship between British and American troops in action. The Seventh Army, in its first campaign, had established a reputation that gained the deep respect of the veteran British Eighth, while on the American side there was sincere enthusiasm for the fighting qualities of their Brit- ish and Canadian partners.  The operations brought to a high degree of efficiency the co-ordination among air, naval, and ground forces. The Navy, in its escorting, supporting, and maintenance functions, performed miracles and always in exact co-ordination with the needs and support of the other arms. The real