n World War II. Among them the Hon. Joseph E. Davies, former ambassador to the U.S.S.R.; my wartime chief of staff, now Ambassador, Walter B. Smith; and Brigadier General Edwin Clark, formerly a valuable assistant of mine in SHAEF, were primarily responsible for persuading me that I should undertake the task at all. Without their insistence and urging there would certainly have been no collection of notes and memoranda from which to start. Brigadier General Arthur S. Nevins and Kevin McCann, who rose from private to lieutenant colonel during the war, were indispensable assistants throughout the preparation of the book, once the decision to write it had been made. To these, especially, and to all those who served on my staff at various periods during and after the war, my grateful thanks for what may be good herein; my apologies for what is bad.  NOTES  Page 569 of 669 83%  ACKNOWLEDGMENTS  MILLIONS, IN UNIFORM AND OUT, were responsible for the military accomplishments recounted in this book. In this sense, they wrote the story and no enumeration of collaborators is possible. But ina personal sense I am deeply indebted to a group of close friends for the assistance that allowed me quickly to concentrate and edit wartime notes, memoranda, and memories into a single narrative of my experiences in World War II. Among them the Hon. Joseph E. Davies, former ambassador to the U.S.S.R.; my wartime chief of staff, now Ambassador, Walter B. Smith; and Brigadier General Edwin Clark, formerly a valuable assistant of mine in SHAEF, were primarily responsible for persuading me that I should undertake the task at all. Without their insistence and urging there would certainly have been no collection of notes and memoranda from which to start. Brigadier General Arthur S. Nevins and Kevin McCann, who rose from private to lieutenant colonel during the war, were indispensable assistants throughout the preparation of the book, once the decision to write it had been made. To these, espec