in, the best training ground in the United Kingdom.  Major General John C. H. Lee reported to me to command our Services of Supply. He at once began the appalling task of preparing ports and building warehouses, camps, airfields, and repair facilities, all of which would be needed before we could start an offensive from the British base. The work accomplished under his direction was so vital to success and so vast in proportion that its description would require a book in itself. By the time the cross-Channel assault was launched, two years later, the United Kingdom was one gigantic air base, workshop, storage depot, and mobiliza- tion camp. It was claimed facetiously at the time that only the great number of barrage balloons floating constantly in British skies kept the islands from sinking under the seas.  In the American headquarters in Europe organizational plans followed the conventional pattern of a general and special staff. One problem that arose early and bothered us throughout the campaigns in Europe was how to separate administrative from operational matters without setting up an additional headquarters. American law and regulations give a theater commander a vast amount of administrative responsibility and authority, much of which he must exercise personally. How to free a mobile, tactical staff from the vast bulk of this work, which ordinarily must be performed at a fixed, stable headquarters, and still observe economy in highly trained personnel is always a problem. It was difficult from the beginning, but did not become really bothersome until I was given the additional assignment of Allied commander. For the moment we adopted a temporary solution, realizing that England itself would eventually be merely a base, not a theater of oper- ations. General Lee, as commander of our Services of Supply and the British base, was charged with handling administration.  The organizational plan for air was pressing in point of time. We intended to participate as qu