pital and camp facilities were necessarily set aside for those suffering from self-inflicted wounds, from hysteria and psychoneuroses and from venereal disease, sometimes, according to the doctors, deliberately contracted. Their number, percentagewise, was small, but in the aggregate, large. It is profitable for a commander to visit these places, to talk with individuals, to understand something of the bewilderment, the fear, the defeatism that afflict men who are essentially afraid of life, though believing they are afraid of death. An astonishing number of these individuals react instantly and favorably to a single word of encouragement. More than one has said to me, immediately upon discovering another’s interest in him, “General, get me out of here; I want to go back to my outfit.” Harshness normally intensifies the disease, but understanding can do much to cure it and in my opinion, if applied in time, can largely prevent it.  In war, time is vital. There is much to be done. Visible evidences of efficiency, noted in perfection of techniques and deportment, are so easy to observe that officers of all grades cannot or do not give sufficient attention to the individual. Yet attention to the individual is the key to success, particularly because American manpower is not only our most precious commodity—it will, in any glo- bal war, always be in short supply.  Our service schools have a definite duty to instruct officers in this field. Regardless of any progress made in the country’s educational institutions, the Army’s business is success in war—and the Army cannot safely neglect any subject that experience has shown to be important to that success.  All the developments in method, equipment, and destructive power that we were studying seemed minor innovations compared to the revolutionary impact of the atom bomb. None was used in the European theater and none was ever planned for use there. However, even without the actual experience of its employment, the reports