work that otherwise will never be done.” The meeting was merely for an exchange of ideas and nothing was done. Almost needless to add, however, from then on Admiral Lord Louis Mountbatten was my warm and firm friend.  Page 76 of 669 12%  GHD rrimary tarcet  Y, SECONDARY TARGET  50 MILES 650 750  / 460 == Se DEC. 1942—-JULY 19435 ——-» B.1944 — JUNE (9  ————— 2 ——— JULY 1943-~ FEB.1944 —-; << F  It is difficult now to recapture the sober, even fearful, atmosphere of those days: the state of the public mind which was reflected in the thinking of so many people in and out of the service. Except  ————————————— ?+——— JUNE 1944. — MAY 1945 >_>  for the early June defeat of the Japanese fleet at Midway, Allied fortunes were at low ebb. Prospects were bright only in their long-range aspect, and were contingent on Russia’s maintaining herself in  the war with the material help that could be given her while the United States developed her latent power. Moreover, it was essential that Great Britain hang on grimly in India a: in order to keep our two principal enemies divided and to deny them the Middle East oil.  In the summer of 1942 it took a very considerable faith, not to say optimism, to look forward to the day when the potentialities of the United States would be fully develope three great Allies could be applied simultaneously and decisively against the European Axis. This attitude of faith was demanded at all superior headquarters. Any expression o ure to push ahead in confidence was instant cause for relief from duty, and all officers knew it.  At the time of my first visit to London, in May, no detailed study of tactical plans for an invasion of the coast line of northwestern Europe had been made. Requirements in troo and equipment were all yet to be determined. In general terms I was thinking of an assault to be launched early in 1943, conducted during its initial stages by British troops sup or twelve American divisions. This general idea presupposed the existence i