tter one for the Prime Minister to accept. I reported these conclusions to the Combined Chiefs of Staff, who supported my decision.|36! The islands were quickly retaken by the enemy.  From the beginning of the conquest of Sicily we had been engaged in a new type of task, that of providing government for a conquered population. Specially trained “civil affairs officers,” some American, some British, accompanied the assault forces and continuously pushed forward to take over from combat troops the essential task of controlling the civil population.  The American contingent had been trained in the school established at Charlottesville, Virginia. Later, groups of both British and American military government officers received further training in North Africa. They operated under the general supervision of a special section of my headquarters.|371  Public health. conduct. sanitation. agriculture. industrv. transvort. and a hundred other activities. all normal to communitv life. were suvervised and directed bv these officers. Their task was  Page 224 of 669 33%  responsibility was assumed by Admiral Cunningham. He unhesitatingly agreed to push his battle fleet directly into Taranto Harbor, discounting the possibility of treachery or destruction by mine fields, in order to carry the British 1st Airborne Division into the docks at that port. The operation was carried out as planned on September 9, but with the loss of one fine British cruiser and more than two hundred men she was carrying.|311 She was sunk by a mine in the harbor of Taranto.  A dramatic incident during the operation is told in the official report:  On the afternoon of 9th September the battleship Howe with four cruisers in company, carrying elements of the 1st British Airborne Division, steamed up the swept channel towards Taranto. Shortly before, the Taranto Division of the Italian Battle Fleet had emerged from the harbor. As the two fleets passed each other, there was a moment of tension. There was no gua