d me but, he said, for the fact that he had vehemently criticized me to his associates when he thought I might relieve him. His emotional range was very great and he lived at either one end or the other of it. I laughingly told him, “You owe us some victories; pay off and the world will deem me a wise man.”  Ag a  Page 266 of 669 39%  ——r EE rere Eee ee Eee ee eee eee —E—E—E—E——E——_e eee OS ere eee eee ee eee oe eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee—e—eE_eeE OEE Eee eee eee eee eee eee practiced the habit of attempting with fantastic pronouncements to astound his friends and associates that it had become second nature with him, regardless of circumstances. A speech he made to an American division shortly after his arrival in the United Kingdom caused more than a ripple of astonishment and press comment, and I well knew that it would be far easier to keep him for a sig- nificant role in the war if he could shut off his public utterances. He promised faithfully to do so.  Later in the spring, however, another storm broke around his head. Before a British gathering he expressed indiscreet and inappropriate opinions about the need for Great Britain and America to combine to run the world after the victory should be won.!21  Because the memory of the Sicilian slapping incident was still fresh in the public mind the statement, widely publicized, attracted far more attention than it would otherwise have done. His public critics were confirmed in their conviction that he was totally unsuited to command an army. For the first time I began seriously to doubt my ability to hang onto my old friend, in whose fighting capacity I had implicit faith and confidence. However, my concern was not so much for his particular statements, which were the object of criticism at home, as it was for his broken promise with the resultant implication that he would never improve in this regard.  Investigation quickly revealed two points which influenced my decision. The first of these was that in advance of