l terms I was thinking of an assault to be launched early in 1943, conducted during its initial stages by British troops sup or twelve American divisions. This general idea presupposed the existence in England of an air force capable with some reinforcement of carrying out the preliminary and sup  nd the Western Desert  d and the power of the defeatism or any fail-  ps, airplanes, supplies, ported by possibly ten porting action that we  believed to be necessary. It presupposed, also, British capacity for assisting materially in the quick delivery of all the amphibious equipment we would need, and, of course, contemplat arrival of new divisions from the United States in sufficient strength to support the attack constantly and to enlarge the operations against the enemy.  With these general ideas in mind but with no detailed studies upon which to make a firm conclusion, I went to an informal meeting with the British Chiefs of Staff. Shortly after the conference began I was invited to present my general views concerning the nature of the projected operation. Speaking as an American planner assigned to the War Department in Washington, and with no idea that I would later be assigned to Britain, I said in substance, “The first thing to do is to name a commander for the operation. That man must be given every bit of power that both governments can make available to him. He must be directed to plan for an invasion of Europe on the basis that it will certainly be successful, at least to the extent of establishing on the Continent a solid front capable of carrying out effective operations against the German. He must be directed instantly to prepare his outlined plan and to submit to the Chiefs of Staff his requirements not only in troops of all kinds but in all types of additional equipment—land, sea, and air.”  The first question asked me was, “And who would you name as commander of this expedition?”  Still thinking of an operation in early 1943, when the British would nece