that it could not even provide crews for them. General Somervell promptly retorted that he would do so. With characteristic energy he set about the task and performed it successfully. Months later, when he tried to transfer the organization to the Navy, we ran up against the curious proposition that the Navy could not take drafted men.  What a difference it would have made if we had had a co-ordinated policy and a single head at that time! Throughout the spring of 1942 attempts were made, through joint conferences and interoffice visits, to reach an agreement on the character and volume of our needs in landing craft and to get some one person to assume the responsibility for procuring them. Naturally such a program had to be articulated with general naval construction so that it would develop without interfering fatally with the production of the escort vessels, submarines, and other types of equipment vital to the execution of plans. At that time, however, the Navy was thinking only in terms of restoring the fleet. They were not particularly interested in landing craft for future offensives. But if we didn’t start building we would never attack.  About this time President Quezon became the head of yet another government-in-exile when he was evacuated from the Philippines by submarine before the final capitulation.!4] He eventually made his way to the United States. Within a week of his arrival he called at my office in the War Department and gave to me and my staff many of the intimate details of the PhilippinesNnobilization, campaign, and final defeat. His gratitude to America was profound; he clearly understood all the reasons why more effective help could not be rendered at that moment, but he knew the Philippines would again live under its own flag. From this conviction he never wavered.  The history of those days of the Pacific war will one day be written in detail. The various decisions, movements, and actions will all be brought into their proper perspective