t, would have to pass directly under an overwhelming strength of land-based aviation.  Even at that early date we studied the possibility of launching an expedition to seize French holdings on the Atlantic coast of North Africa and make that area a principal base from which to attack Festung Europa.|8| One senior officer seriously proposed that we make our initial landing in Liberia, and begin from there to fight our way laboriously up the coast of Africa toward Europe.|2!  For a number of reasons the Mediterranean route was rejected as the principal avenue of attack. The first disadvantage was the distance of the North African bases from the heart of Germany. While conceivably Italy might readily be eliminated as an enemy, the heart of the opposition was Germany—an Italian collapse would not be decisive. The difficulty of attacking Germany through the mountainous areas on her southern and southwestern flanks was obvious, while we alwavs had to face the fact that the full might of Great Britain and the United States could not possibly be  Page 46 of 669 7%  came into deserved Army prominence before the end of the war.  In the security of victory and with the benefit of hindsight it is easy to point out instances in which the War Department made mistakes. But none of us, not even the most sincere and analytical, can recapture in his own heart and mind the fears and worries of those days. These were reflected in the intensity of emotional and mental strain to which responsible officials were subjected. Time was vital—decisions had to be made promptly on whatever estimates and information were available at the time.  For instance, there were projects for building a pipe line into Alaska and an international highway into South America. Both ideas were born out of the very lively fear that we could never produce the tankers and naval escorts needed for all war requirements, and that these two developments might prove the saviors of important areas and the means of preser