rance must be our friend. It is not alone a question of humanitarianism. It is also a question of high state policy.”  My own air commanders and I challenged the accuracy of the statisticians’ figures. We anticipated losses of not more than a fraction of 80,000—particularly because we planned to issue both general and specific warnings to the inhabitants. We used every possible means repeatedly to tell the French and Belgians to move away from critical points in the transport system. More than this, preceding every raid we planned to warn inhabitants, by radio and by leaflet, to evacuate temporarily the areas selected for that attack. We could afford to give these definite warnings because of our knowledge that we had badly diminished the strength of the German Air Force and because also we knew that the enemy could not have anti-aircraft in sufficient quantities to cover, omsshort notice,  every critical spot in the transportation system of France. The plan had to be so arrang!  deception plans, we invariably chose some targets in the Calais area for heavy bombing simultaneously with every critical raid.  ed that it did not, by its general pattern, reveal the area selected for assault. Consequently, in furtherance of our  ISOLATION BY AIR  DESTRUCTION OF KEY BRIDGES CENTERS WOULD SEVER THE SUPPLY AND REINFORCEMENT Oo {00 MILES 200  ENGLAND AND RAIL GERMAN ARTERIES  mS ANTWERP  BRUSSELS  F ARRAS  41%  wanted.  The United States was at that time committed to offensive action in the Pacific and the necessary additional craft could not be diverted from that theater. In the face of this, General Montgomery proposed the complete abandonment of the attack on southern France, which then had the code name of Anvil. He wrote to me on February 21, 1944: “I recommend very strongly that we now throw the whole weight of our opinion into the scales against Anvil.”/22! I refused to go along with this view.[231 But it became clear that there was no other recourse except to delay th