nce that had defeated the enemy at that vital point; but it was more difficult to grasp the reasons for satisfaction, even though it was explained to us that the city, by paying such a tremendous price, had proved itself “worthy of Mother Russia.”  The mayor of the city had us for luncheon with a number of civil and military leaders of the region. Russian artists were there to entertain us. We listened to vocal and instrumental music, to dramatic recitations—which, of course, we could not understand—and watched some beautiful dancing. I remarked to my host that I was struck by the universal respect for artists in Russia and the extraordinary appreciation that everyone, from highest to lowest, seemed to have for art in all its forms. My host replied that any Russian would cheerfully go hungry all week if by doing so he could, on Sunday, visit an art gallery, a football game, or the ballet.  During the toasting period at the Leningrad luncheon my son, who had heretofore escaped the ordeal, was called upon by Marshal Zhukov for a toast. Later John told me that during the entire visit he had been fearing such a challenge and had prepared himself for it as well as he could. He rose to his feet and after remarking that as a young lieutenant he was not accustomed to associate with marshals of the Soviet Union, mayors of great cities, and five-star generals, he said in effect: “I have been in Russia several days and have listened to many toasts. I have heard the virtues of every Allied  qeta pee: eeeern secs mentee an anh anne 1 mnie We Mdce See peed Tes mm enncie pe Deke ke 7 tence ore ihe fos Te man, doe nd AL hin os be Semin mak ean Thain eed ee foe TAT A UAT TT PV nee Seen een eet Masece cl ecee dati lecetel anne am alo  Page 549 of 669 80%  ee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee Sete ee ee AE OR pe SEE Ey SERA he WU ER ES OR LEE SE SUES LAR SLY RARER SSE, VE AES DUAR STS EL Rey Sele EE AR ee ES officials to act as interpreters. Officers of my party attended, as did the ambassador