not stand the pessimist—the individual who was always painting difficulties in the darkest colors and was excessively fearful of the means at hand for overcoming them. He would never assign an officer to a responsible position unless he believed that the man was an enthusiastic supporter of the particular project and confident of the outcome. He believed in the offensive.  Sometimes, of course, selections were necessarily made from among officers who did not, in all respects, fully conform to these ideas. But when he made exceptions it was clear that General Marshall always maintained a positive, and permanent, mental reservation.  In the development of strategic, logistic, and operational plans for the Army and its Air Forces, the Operations Division worked closely with the Joint and the Combined Chiefs of Staff. From estimates of the current military situation—our available strength against the enemies’ proved capacity and staggering territorial advances—it was our duty to determine military policy in terms of objectives, requirements in men and materials for the attainment of those objectives, and the most effective means of quickly meeting these requirements.  Behind this technical language was an immense amount of pick-and-shovel activity in the accumulation, study, and co-ordination of data affecting military operations. The preparation of a single directive on a proposed operation might require information that ranged from the projected production rate of a specific item in a particular key factory to an encyclopedic presentation of all factors— military, political, geographical, and climatic—influencing the composition of a major task force. The basic principles of strategy are so simple that a child may understand them. But to determine their proper application to a given situation requires the hardest kind of work from the finest available staff officers. In this particular resource, at least, we were well off. The selected body of officers, which had, bet