ication of air and ground troops and to suggest a procedure to be followed in the event our forces should meet the Russians in any part of Germany, each with an offensive mission. It is critically important that this question be settled quickly on a prac- tical basis.|28!  The outcome of all this was that we went ahead with our own plan. So earnestly did I believe in the military soundness of what we were doing that my intimates on the staff knew I was prepared to make an issue of it.  The only other result of this particular argument was that we thereafter felt somewhat restricted in communicating with the Generalissimo and were careful to confine all our communications to matters of solely tactical importance. This situation I did not regard as too serious, particularly because the United States Chiefs of Staff had staunchly reaffirmed my freedom of action in the execu- tion of plans that in my judgment would bring about the earliest possible cessation of hostilities.  Chapter 21 OVERRUNNING GERMANY eee  Page 477 of 669 69%  eee eee eee eee ee eee ee ee ene i eee eee eee oe eee ee eee ee non nee ee ee i ene eee eee ee een ie ieee ee ee ee ee ON NN ARN EE ABR AY MAAALAE AON AAEM AARAMAESMA MY MAAR MEEK AEE quickly and more decisively than the course of action urged by them.  The battle of Germany is now at a point where it is up to the Field Commander to judge the measures which should be taken. To deliberately turn away from the exploitation of the enemy’s weakness does not appear sound. The single objective should be quick and complete victory. While recognizing there are factors not of direct concern to SCAEF, the U.S. Chiefs consider his strategic con- cept is sound and should receive full support. He should continue to communicate freely with the Commander in Chief of the Soviet Army.!271  Later, on April 7, I included the following in my final radio on the subject to General Marshall:  The message I sent to Stalin was a purely military move taken in accordanc