nd showed me the exact plan of campaign, which had been initiated only a few days before. Everywhere in the Manchurian area things were going according to plan and Antonov was confident of a quick and easy vic- tory. We discussed military subjects until late in the evening, all in an atmosphere of greatest cordiality and mutual confidence.  Tha fallauring marning wac the annninted time far the hio Snarte Parade Thic wac ctaged in the Red Sanare a nawed araa nf eanciderahla acreaca The anly nennle nracent were the cnecially invited  Page 545 of 669 79%  ee ee  Ey EEE EEE  a a _ kd Our chief hope, therefore, was to build among those engaged in the German occupation a friendly acceptance of each other as individuals striving peacefully to attain a common understandin; and common purpose—our mutual good. Once that spirit could be developed in Berlin, it would spread beyond Germany to our own capitals. The international good feeling manifested at Potsdam, between the heads of states, was a favorable start. If we could learn at the conference tables to conduct our business as friends, we could eventually live together as friends and ultimately work together in world partnership. A modus vivendi between East and West was our first objective.  The President and his staff left Germany for the United States on August 2. A few days later I was informed from Washington that Generalissimo Stalin had sent me an invitation to visit Russia. This was a renewal of an invitation that originally had come to me in early June, when I could not accept because of a necessary appearance in the United States under War Department orders. With this in- vitation came an expression of my government’s hope that I could accept.  The Generalissimo suggested that a particular date to be included in my visit was August 12, a day set aside for a National Sports Parade in Moscow. I was pleased at this chance to see a country that I had never before visited, but I was even more pleased by the implicatio