nion into the scales against Anvil.”[22! I refused to go along  with this view.|23] But it became clear that there was no other recourse except to delay the southern attack for a  sufficient time to permit ships and craft first to operate in Overlord and then to proceed to the Mediterranean for participation in that battle.[241 We concluded that this arrangement was not especially  disadvantageous; at least it was far better than cancellation. The presence of Allied t France, while, if he gradually drained that area, our later advance from the south would it be made as soon after July 15 as was feasible.  roops in the Mediterranean would prevent the German from completely evacuating his troops from southern be much speedier. Consequently we agreed upon the delay in the southern attack with the recommendation that  Our scheme for employing the air force in preparation for the great assault encountered very earnest and sincere opposition, especially on the political level. To demolish the key bridges, freight  yards, and main rail arteries of France would inevitably result in casualties among the  French population. Even though we planned, in the case of large cities, to disrupt communications by bombing  critical points surrounding the locality instead of within the highly populated centers, some statisticians calculated that the plan would cost at least 80,000 French lives. Such a catastrophe was of course likely to embitter the French nation; the Prime Minister and many of his subordinates insisted that some other way must be found to employ the air forces in support of the attack. The Prime Minister was genuinely shaken by the fearful picture presented to him by opponents of our idea, and his appeals to me were correspondingly urgent and appealing. He said, “Postwar France must be our friend. It is not alone a question of humanitarianism. It is also a question of high state policy.”  My own air commanders and I challenged the accuracy of the statisticians’ figures