mes saw Field Marshal Brooke, General Frederick Morgan, Air Chief Marshal Tedder, Sir Andrew Cunningham, Field Marshal Montgomery, and others of the British service heads and high commanders with whom I had served during the war. All were my good friends. Strangely enough our conversations rarely turned backward, in the habit of old soldiers, to incidents of the war. Even then we seemed to sense that the future problems of peace would overshadow even the great difficulties we had to surmount during hostilities. Consequently our talk nearly always dealt with the prob- abilities of the future: particularly the prospects for establishing clear and mutually observed understandings between the Western Allies and the Soviets.  During those months we had also at our headquarters a constant stream of visitors from the United States. Among these were congressional committees and various official and semiofficial bodies gathering material on the conduct of the war or informing themselves as to details of current administration. These visitors we were always delighted to have. We gave them every needed facility for the conduct of their investigations and explorations, and opened up to them every kind of information in our possession. They, on their part, always brought us news of the homeland, and frequently were good enough to carry personal letters from families at home to members of the command. This, in particular, was a distinct kindness on their part, for letters sent through them would take only one or two days for delivery, whereas in the ordinary mail, because of its volume, two or three weeks were sometimes required.  Chapter 23  OPERATION STUDY ee  Page 530 of 669 77%  eee eee eee ee ee ee eee ew ee ee ee een Tew eee ee eee en ee eee ee ene ee eee ee iene enna ee en ON Ne Oe ON BE ONDE ON Nee Ne NN NN NNN ON DRE RADDA ND BBB DDN ONE OO  During those months we had also at our headquarters a constant stream of visitors from the United States. Among these were congress