t take. This was a fetish with the military; their surrender in 1940, they asserted, had been merely the act of loyal soldiers obeying the legal orders of their civil superiors.  Without exception every French commander with whom General Clark held exhaustive conversation declined to make any move toward bringing his forces to the side of the Allies unless he could get a legal order to do so. Each of them had sworn an oath of personal fealty to Marshal Pétain, a name that at that moment was more profound in its influence on North African thinking and acting than any other factor. None of these men felt that he could be absolved from that oath or could give any order to cease firing unless the necessary instructions were given by Darlan as their legal com- mander, to whom they looked as the direct and personal representative of Marshal Pétain.  Tt was useless then. and for manv davs thereafter. to talk to a Frenchman. civilian or soldier. unless one first recognized the Marshal's overriding influence. His nicture anneared nrominentlv in everv  Page 122 of 669 18%  within the hour.14]  On the morning of November 9, General Clark and General Giraud went by air to Algiers in an effort to make some kind of agreement with the highest French authorities. Their mission was to end the fighting and to secure French assistance in projected operations against the Germans.|151  General Giraud’s cold reception by the French in Africa was a terrific blow to our expectations. He was completely ignored. He made a broadcast, announcing assumption of leadership of French North Africa and directing French forces to cease fighting against the Allies, but his speech had no effect whatsoever. I was doubtful that it was even heard by significant numbers. Radio communica- tions with Algiers were very difficult but eventually a message came through that confirmed an earlier report: Admiral Darlan was in Algiers!  We discounted at once the possibility that he had come into the area with a pri