e the guiding principle of the war until Germany was defeated; all other operations and efforts would necessarily be considered as auxiliary or sec- ondary to the main thrust, and would be designed either to defend vital links in our defensive structure or to support the principal effort when once the main attacking forces should be ready.  To use American forces for an attack on Germany through the Russian front was impossible. The only lines of approach were the long, tortuous, and difficult routes through Murmansk on the north and the Persian Gulf on the south, via the Cape of Good Hope. These lines could carry nothing additional to the equipment and supplies that were necessary to keep the Russian forces in the struggle until their own badly torn industrial fabric could be repaired.  Plans for attacking through Norway, through Spain and Portugal, and even for not attacking with ground forces at all but depending exclusively on the effect of sea and air superiority, were all studied in infinite detail.|7]  Another area to be considered as a possible theater of operations for the main effort against Germany was the Mediterranean. In the early spring of ’42 the British situation in the Middle East was not too bad. Auchinleck was standing in the Western Desert with the hope that the arrival of reinforcements from England, together with promised equipment from America, would eventually allow him to undertake an offensive that might drive Rommel out of Africa. But the central Mediterranean was closed to the Allies. Malta was beleaguered, pounded incessantly by bombers based in Sicily and Italy. Any attack that attempted to move straight in from Gibraltar against Italy and Sicily was doomed to failure from the start because the invading forces, without defensive air support, would have to pass directly under an overwhelming strength of land-based aviation.  Even at that early date we studied the possibility of launching an expedition to seize French holdings on the Atl