iral Ernest J. King, were frequent.  The Chief of Staff’s assistants, among whom the principal members were General Somervell, Lieutenant General, later General of the Army, Henry H. Arnold, General McNarney, and the chief of his planning and operations staff, met almost daily with their opposite numbers in the Navy Department in an effort to achieve balanced objectives, in keeping with the output of training organizations and American industry. Thus service in the War Department inevitably produced a complete picture of the global war.  General Marshall gave long and earnest attention to the selection of individuals to occupy key spots in overseas commands and in the reorganized department. In the process he sometimes gave clear indication of the types of men who in his opinion were unsuited for high position. Foremost among these was the one who seemed to be self-seeking in the matter of promotion. Pressure from any source, in favor of any individual in the Army, was more likely than not to boomerang if the Chief of Staff became aware of its existence. I was in his office one day when someone called him on the telephone, apparently to urge the promotion of some friend in the Army. His answer was, “If the man is a friend of yours, the best service you can do him is to avoid mentioning his name to me.”  Another thing that annoyed him was any effort to “pass the buck,” especially to him. Often he remarked that he could get a thousand men to do detailed work but too many were useless in responsible posts because they left to him the necessity of making every decision. He insisted that his principal assistants should think and act on their own conclusions in their own spheres of respon- sibility, a doctrine emphasized in our Army schools but too little practiced in peacetime.  By the same token he had nothing but scorn for any man who attempted “to do everything himself”—he believed that the man who worked himself to tatters on minor details had no ability to handle th