British and Canadian armies or of the American Ninth and First Armies. The depth of the German advances on the eighteenth and nineteenth had broken all normal communications between  Bradley’s headquarters at Luxembourg and the headquarters of the Ninth and First Armies. For this reason it was completely impossible for Bradley to give to the attack on the southern shoulder the attention that I desired and at the same time keep properly in touch with the troops in the north who were called upon to meet the heaviest German blows.  Montgomery temporarily in c it up, I had no hesitancy in adopting this solution. I telephoned Bradley to inform him of this decision and then called Field Marshal Montgomery and gave him his orders. Late that evening Mr. Churchill telephoned to ask how the battle was going. I gave him the outline of the countermeasures already directed and informed him of the temporary command setup. He  bui  remarked that my plan would it an honor to enter the same The command plan worked and there was generally universal acceptance of its necessity at the time.  Page  [o this whole situation on  ly one solution seemed applicable. This was to place all troops in our northern salient under one commander. The only way of achieving the necessary unity was to place command of all the northern forces and direct Bradley to give his full attention to affairs on the south. Because of my faith in the soundness of the teamwork that we had  make the British reserve instantly available for use wherever needed, regardless of previously defined zones, and said, “I assure you that British troops will always deem  424 of 669  battle as their American friends.”  62%  By rushing out from his fixed defenses the enemy may give us the chance to turn his great gamble into his worst defeat. So I call upon every man, of all the Allies, to rise now to new heights of courage, of resolution and of effort. Let everyone hold before him a single thought—to destroy the enemy on the groun