aval gunfire, repulsed the counterattack after some hours of bitter touch- and-go fighting.  Believing that the enemy might persist in his counterattacks on this portion of our forces, I left Malta that night in a British destroyer to visit Patton and Hewitt, the ground and naval commanders directly concerned./31 When I arrived the following morning the German was pulling back, presumably to strengthen his defenses in the critical Catania area. Everybody was in fine fettle, and though we in the destroyer saw little more of the fighting than sporadic gunfire, yet we got a good conception of the whole action on the south coast, and two accompanying pressmen, of whom John Gunther was one, picked up local color for their dispatches. I seized the chance to stop on the beach to send the Canadian division a message of welcome to the Allied command.  Up to that moment no amphibious attack in history had approached this one in size. Along miles of coast line there were hundreds of vessels and small boats afloat and antlike files of advancing troops ashore. Overhead were flights of protecting fighters.  The point we wanted to capture at the earliest possible moment was Messina, the enemy port in the northeastern end of the island, directly across the narrow strait from the Italian mainland. Through this port almost all enemy supplies would have to flow, and once it was secured the position of the garrison on the island would be hopeless. The enemy of course saw this simple truth as clearly as we and rapidly gathered up his forces to bar the progress of Montgomery, who was closest to Messina. In this effort the enemy was tremendously favored by the ground. Mount Etna dominates  the whole nartheast earner of the island and the Fishth Armv’s route ta the narthward lav aver a narraw road alang the seaward shoulder af the mauntain Mantonmerv’s attack initially nrnaceeded  Page 207 of 669 31%  ee I OE ee ee ee eee ee ne ee eee eee ee nee ee ee eee eee ee eee ee | eee EE eee  landin