egy. He was, moreover, a friendly and agreeable type; Americans instinctively liked hirh.[151  The Prime Minister finally decided, however, that Alexander should not be spared from the Italian operation, which would have an important effect on the one we were to undertake the following summer, and from which he still hoped for almost decisive results. Consequently General Montgomery was assigned to command the British forces in the new operation, a choice acceptable to me. [16] General Montgomery has no superior in two most important characteristics. He quickly develops among British enlisted men an intense devotion and admiration—the greatest personal asset a commander can possess. Montgomery’s other outstanding characteristic is his tactical ability in what might be called the “prepared” battle. In the study of enemy positions and situations and in the combining of his own armor, artillery, air, and infantry to secure tactical success against the enemy he is careful, meticulous, and certain.  I was particularly pleased to secure the services of Admiral Ramsay as the naval commander in chief.[17] Admiral Cunningham had left us some weeks earlier to become First Sea Lord of the Admiralty, but Admiral Ramsay was a most competent commander of courage, resourcefulness, and tremendous energy. Moreover, all of us knew him to be helpful and companionable, even though we sometimes laughed among ourselves at the care with which he guarded, in British tradition and practice, the “senior service” position of the British Navy.  On Christmas Eve we listened to the radio, having learned that President Roosevelt was to make a significant speech. During that talk he made the first public announcement of my transfer to command of Overlord and included in the statement the designation of the title I was to assume. The title was Supreme Commander, Allied Expeditionary Forces.[18] This sounded very imposing and inspired Commander Butcher, my naval aide, to say that his major problem f