ry to review the situation and prescribe the movement of forces to accomplish the third phase, the final destruction of German military power and the overrunning of German territory.  The first step in this movement remained the encirclement of the Ruhr. This had always been a major feature of our plans and there was nothing in the situation now facing us to indicate any advantage in abandoning the purpose. On the contrary, it now appeared that this double envelopment would not only finally and completely sever the industrial Ruhr from the remainder of Germany but would result in the destruction of one of the major forces still remaining to the enemy.  When the enemy failed to eliminate the Remagen bridgehead in the early days of March he began frantically to build up the southern defenses of the Ruhr along the Sieg River. In the same way, when Montgomery catapulted across the Rhine in the northern sector on March 24, the Germans hurriedly began to establish a line along the northern flank of the Ruhr region. The double envelop- ment would therefore surround these defending forces, tear a wide gap in the center, and open a path across the country to the eastward.  I already knew of the Allied political agreements that divided Germany into post-hostilities occupational zones. The north-south line allotted by that decision to the British and American nations ran from the vicinity of Litbeck, at the eastern base of the Danish peninsula, generally southward to the town of Eisenach and on southward to the Austrian border.1171  This future division of Germany did not influence our military plans for the final conquest of the country. Military plans, I believed, should be devised with the single aim of speeding victory; by later adjustment troops of the several nations could be concentrated into their own national sectors.  Anatural objective beyond the Ruhr was Berlin. It was politically and psychologically important as the symbol of remaining German power. I decided, how