than sporadic gunfire, yet we got a good conception of the whole action on the south coast, and two accompanying pressmen, of whom John Gunther  Page 207 of 669 31%  Some of us went outside for a short walk, but we watched the wind indicators fearfully, almost prayerfully, because the hour was fast approaching when it would be impossible to turn back assaulting forces from their intended landings. A message came from General Marshall: “Is the attack on or off?” My reaction was that I wish I knew! Evening approached with predictions indicating some slight improvement. We decided to proceed as planned, and I so radioed to General Marshall.[26| My feeling was that, even if the forces on the southern coast should find it necessary to delay land- ing, those on the east would surely get ashore and we would have less confusion and disadvantage than would result from any attempt to stop the whole armada.  But the evening wore on and the wind velocity increased alarmingly. There was nothing we could do but pray, desperately.  Chapter 10  SICILY AND SALERNO  THE FIRST TROOPS SCHEDULED TO reach the Island were the airborne contingents. The route of some of these lay directly across Malta and a number of us went out on the hilltops to watch them pass. In the wind and storm it was difficult for them to keep direction. Our plotting board in the air operations room showed that many planes and tows were blown far off course, but generally the columns kept on target and when the one we were watching had passed overhead, we returned to headquarters to await reports. Most of us turned in to catch a few hours of sleep.  The first messages in the morning were a mixture of good and bad. A number of the gliders participating in the airborne attack on the British front had been cast loose too far from their targets and the high wind had dropped some into the sea. We feared a heavy loss of life and, though statistics later showed that casualties were less than we feared, it was still a trag