headlines.  Every commander is always careful to select only the best officers he can find for key staff positions in his headquarters. Yet these men, who in the average case would do anything to obtain a field command and who could serve brilliantly in such positions, devote their talents to the drudgery of the staff with few of the rewards that go to their comrades of the line.  Page 155 of 669 23%  VEIT ESALLL NUCTIAEL WICNREUSI Was Iily ULUELLY, WilO ACCULIPALMEU THE alWayo alll Was CLOSE DY Illy ole, Udy aAllitt tide tit. WIE Udy iti shiticd 1 tld LO LAKE 4 TUTTE UEP LU LIIe APUTLE alles d LEE LO LIEU LU Sergeant McKeogh to bring a bag to the airfield. Flying conditions were deplorable and, in the total absence of flying aids in the mountainous country of Tunisia, the prospect of the flight was not enjoyable. When I got to the plane I found Sergeant McKeogh also prepared to make the journey. I said, “Mickey, I intend to return tomorrow, and I doubt that I will need you before then. Flying condi- tions are not comfortable and there is no use in both of us being miserable. You may go on back to quarters.”  The sergeant seemed to pale a bit but he looked me squarely in the eye and said, “Sir, my mother wrote me that my job in this war was to take care of you. And she said also, ‘If General Eisenhower doesn’t come back from this war, don’t you dare to come back.’”  The impact of such loyalty and devotion, not only on the part of the sergeant but on the part of the mother who could say such a thing to her son, left me almost speechless. All I did say was, “Well, hop into the plane. We’re late.”  Many months after the war was over I heard that a landlady had denied Sergeant McKeogh and his family permission to stay temporarily in one of her apartments on the ground that “after all, he was merely General Eisenhower’s valet. I must maintain the proper social atmosphere in my properties.” I trust that the lady is not concerned over the relative standing of herself and S