ined weighty reasons for speeding up the planned attack in the direction of Liibeck.  The Liibeck advance would capture the last remaining submarine bases of the German and would effectively eliminate the final vestiges of that once serious menace.  We could not predict the action of the German occupation forces in Denmark. It was possible they would choose to defend that region stubbornly and in that event we planned to conduct a lightning campaign against them.  In early April, Montgomery had estimated that, to carry out the mission assigned him, he would need no strength beyond the seventeen divisions then in his Twenty-first Army Group. I offered him additional logistic assistance by reserving for him a portion of the capacity of the American railroad bridge at Wesel. This help he declined.[20] But as the operations developed on his flank, he found his troops rapidly used up and in the interests of speed asked for additional strength and supply assistance. Both I was glad to provide. I attached temporarily to Montgomery’s force the U.S. XVIII Airborne Corps under General Ridgway. It was to operate in a ground role to support Montgomery’s attack. But we were also prepared, in the event the Germans in Denmark should decide to fight to a finish, to provide additional strength for an airborne attack to cross the Kiel Canal.  When Bremen finally fell to Montgomery’s force April 26, the resistance in his front became markedly weaker. He quickly transferred his main effort to the sector of the British 8 Corps, which launched an attack across the Elbe April 29. The U.S. XVIII Corps made a simultaneous crossing somewhat to the south and provided right-flank protection to the British Second Army in its further advances.  On May 1 the 11th Armored Division of the British 8 Corps began a brilliant dash across Schleswig-Holstein to the Baltic and entered Liibeck on the afternoon of May 2. This sealed off the enemy in  Page 491 of 669 N%  With Bradley’s army group firmly esta