ce of some individual whose past record was, from our viewpoint, distasteful. Moreover, in our inner councils we doubted Giraud’s ability to establish himself firmly in the chief position—but no one else was both acceptable and immediately available. Without delay the French local officials named General Giraud as the temporary administrator of North Africa to succeed Darlan.!25! Giraud visited my headquarters and his first request was that I “cease treating North Africa as a conquered territory and treat it more as the ally which it was trying to become.” This attitude, on the part of one who, I thought, understood our motives so well, was something of a shock.  The governor in Algeria, Chatel, was a weakling who held the trust of none of us. He and General Nogués were two individuals we were determined to get rid of quickly, even though in the case of the latter General Patton constantly insisted that he was working effectively for the Allies in Morocco. My own belief was that General Nogués might co-operate with us as long as he thought we were winning but at the first sign of weakness he would unhesitatingly turn against us. Darlan had met every expression of our dissatisfaction with these two men by replying, “I don’t want them either but the governing of Arab tribes is a tricky business that requires much experience with them. As quickly as you can produce any men, of your own choice, who are experienced in this regard and are loyal Frenchmen, I will instantly dismiss the incumbents and appoint the men you desire.”  In the search for satisfactory individuals we decided to bring Marcel Peyrouton to Algiers. It was reported to me that Peyrouton was then a virtual exile in Argentina, unable to go back to France because of the bitter enmity of Pierre Laval toward him. It was also reported that he had previously established a reputation in North Africa as a skillful colonial administrator. Nevertheless he had been, for a considerable time, a member of the Vichy gov