reasons. Among these they include pride in a unit, respect for the opinion of comrades, and blind devotion to an immediate leader. These things are important and the wise commander will neglect none of them in his effort to produce a first-class fighting unit in which all the members are so trained that chances of success—and individual survival—are raised to the maximum. But the American soldier, in spite of wisecracking, sometimes cynical speech, is an intelligent human being who demands and deserves basic understanding of the reasons why his country took up arms and of the conflicting consequences of victory or defeat. Von Steuben commented vividly on this point during the American Revolution. He explained in a letter to a friend that in Europe you tell a soldier to do thus, and he does it; and that in America it is necessary also to tell him why he does it.  Once the recruit of 1941 was inducted into the service the military leader had to shoulder almost exclusive responsibility for imparting such an understanding, but there was implied a glaring deficiency in our country’s educational processes. It seemed to me that constant stressing of the individual rights and privileges of American citizenship had overshadowed the equally important truth that such individualism can be sustained only so long as the citizen accepts his full responsibility for the welfare of the nation that protects him in the exercise of these rights.  Belief in an underlying cause is fully as important to success in war as any local esprit or discipline induced or produced by whatever kind of command or leadership action. Cromwell’s “Ironsides” marched into battle singing hymns. Their iron discipline was matched by an inner conviction that never deserted them in any kind of dramatic crisis.  Grosvenor Square, where our headquarters and the American Embassy were located, through the soldier’s love of nicknames soon became “Eisenhowerplatz,” and was so referred to, at times, in the press.  Thi