ghtly larger than Colorado. Certain portions were either unusable or unsuited to our purpose. Southern Ireland was neutral, while Scotland was short of suitable areas for training. Almost the entire burden was thrown onto the crowded sections of middle and southern England, with some troops stationed in North Ireland. We had to expect inevitable clashes with civilian processes, and in spite of the best will in the world on both sides, we had to anticipate, and do our best to prevent, mutual irritations that would naturally lead to misunderstandings and could not fail to impede the war effort.  Except during World War I, the United States public has habitually looked upon Europe’s quarrels as belonging to Europe alone. For this reason every American soldier coming to Britain was almost certain to consider himself a privileged crusader, sent there to help Britain out of a hole. He would expect to be treated as such. On the other hand, the British public looked upon itself as one of the saviors of democracy, particularly because, for an entire year, it had stood alone as the unbreakable opponent of Nazism and the European Axis. Failure to understand this attitude would of course have unfortunate results.  If the United Kingdom had possessed great open spaces in which to concentrate the American forces, the problem would have been less acute, but because of the density of population every soldier arriving in England made living conditions just that much more difficult. Every American truck on the streets, and every piece of ground withdrawn from cultivation, added to the irritations.  Fortunately all this was foreseen and discussed frankly with the leaders of the British war effort. Our principal collaborator was Mr. Brendan Bracken, head of the Ministry of Information. He seemed to be as controversial a figure in British life as Harry Hopkins was in ours, but he was always helpful to us and, equally important, he was decisive and energetic. He had another characteristi