ss, if for no other reason than the fact that our tremendous air force was now daily pulverizing the resources in his dwindling territory on an almost unendurable scale. But it was the only method that would have given him a chance to prolong hostilities and it now became clear that there could be no other reason to continue the war. Even Hitler, fanatic that he was, must have had lucid moments in which he could not have failed to see that the end was in sight. He was writing an ending to a drama that would far exceed in tragic climax anything that his beloved Wagner ever conceived.  So far as the Allies were concerned the situation was somewhat like the one that followed upon the breakout in Normandy eight months earlier. There were, however, important differences. We now had present a ground and air strength satisfactorily disposed to brush aside any resistance that we would encounter and there was no Siegfried Line off in the distance for the enemy to man. Far more important was the health and strength of our logistical organization. Lying just behind the Rhine were stocks of equipment and supplies. Close by were the service organizations so necessary to provide for the rapid advance of troops and their constant maintenance. As quickly as we crossed the Rhine we installed floating bridges and they were soon supplemented with fixed types. The first semipermanent railway bridge was built at Wesel, in the northern sector. There, on one of the widest stretches of the river, American engineers constructed a bridge over which ran our first railroad train, less than eleven days after the capture of the site.[161  With our forces everywhere crossing the Rhine and with so much of the German strength lost in the wreckage of the Siegfried Line, the second great phase of our spring campaign was completed. It was then necessary to review the situation and prescribe the movement of forces to accomplish the third phase, the final destruction of German military power and the ove