not encountered. The two American divisions making the assault on the Ninth Army front, the 30th and the 79th, suffered a total of only thirty-one casualties during the actual crossing. The divisions were under the command of General Anderson of the XVI Corps.!31  Throughout the remainder of the night we received a series of encouraging reports. Everywhere the landings appeared completely successful. We were encouraged to believe that we could very quickly achieve such an eastward advance that the communications leading into the Ruhr would be cut.  With tha arrival af dawlicht T urant ta a eanvaniant hill fram uthich ta uritnace tha arrival af tha airharna unite urhich urara echadiulad ta hacin thair dean at tan Welacl Tha airharna tranne urara  Page 461 of 669 67%  The Twenty-first Army Group’s organic strength when the assault began was fifteen divisions. With the two airborne divisions and Simpson’s Ninth Army there were twenty-nine divisions and seven separate brigades under Montgomery’s operational command that day.!2! Not all of these, however, could immediately be committed to the eastward thrust, since Montgomery had to protect his long left flank, stretching westward along the Rhine River to the North Sea. Additional Empire troops, from the Mediterranean, were on the way to join him.  The assault, on the night of March 23-24, was preceded by a violent artillery bombardment. On the front of the two American divisions two thousand guns of all types participated. General Simpson and I found a vantage point in an old church tower from which to witness the gunfire. Because the batteries were distributed on the flat plains on the western bank of the Rhine every flash could be seen. The din was incessant. Meanwhile infantry assault troops were marching up to the water’s edge to get into the boats. We joined some of them and found the troops remarkably eager to finish the job. There is no substitute for a succession of great victories in building morale. Neverthele