s Premier was taken by old Field Marshal Pietro Badoglio.!18! The initial pronouncements of the latter indicated his government’s purpose to continue in the war, but it was clear that this statement was made merely in the hope of placating the Germans and giving the Italians a chance to escape punishment from their arrogant ally.  The Italian hope of independently negotiating a surrender was slim indeed, because throughout the Italian governmental structure Mussolini had permitted or had been forced to accept the infiltration of countless Germans, all of whom were ready to pounce upon the first sign of defection and to take over the Italian nation in name as well as in fact. But in spite of German watchfulness the Italian Government attempted to reach us by sending an agent to Lisbon.|19! I sent there two of my most trusted staff officers, my chief of staff, General Smith, and my Intelligence officer, Brigad- ier, later Major General Kenneth Strong, to act as emissaries in arranging for the unconditional surrender of the Italian forces.  Then began a series of negotiations, secret communications, clandestine journeys by secret agents, and frequent meetings in hidden places that, if encountered in the fictional world, would have been scorned as incredible melodrama. Plots of various kinds were hatched only to be abandoned because of changing circumstances. One of these plots involved the landing of a large airborne force in the vicinity of Rome. At the last moment either the fright of the Italian Government or the movement of German reserves as alleged by the Italians—I have never known which—forced the cancellation of the project. But in the meantime Brigadier General Maxwell D. Taylor, later the gallant commander of the 101st Airborne Division, had been hurried secretly to Rome, where his personal adventures and those of his companion added another adventurous chapter to the whole thrilling story.!20l The risks he ran were greater than I asked any other agent or em