e believed that the Germans then had 40,000 combat airplanes in reserve, ready with trained crews to operate at any moment. He considered that these were being withheld from immediate employment with the intention of using them to sup- port an invasion of the United Kingdom. He also believed that Germany had sufficient numbers of reserve divisions, still uncommitted to action, to carry out a successful invasion of the British Isles.  In the Operations Division we refused to give credence to Ratay’s information concerning the 40,000 operational airplanes. The German Army had just been halted in front of Moscow and we were convinced that no army possessing a weapon of this overwhelming strength would have withheld it merely because of a future plan for its use, particularly when its employment would have insured the destruction and capture of such an important objective as Moscow. It was obvious, of course, that if the Germans did possess such a tremendous reserve any attempt to invade the European con- tinent by amphibious landings would certainly be abortive.  However, information that reached us only after the war was over did show that Ratay’s information and conclusions concerning the reserve divisions had a reasonable basis. Postwar reports from Germany/3! show that, in the summer of 1941, Hitler was planning to employ only sixty divisions as an occupation force for conquered Russia. He planned to use a portion of the large number of div- isions, thus freed, for movement into the Middle East. It seems evident that the German high command considered the German ground forces completely adequate for any task.  No one was more keenly aware of our shortcomings in Intelligence than General Marshall. In his search for improvement he assigned, on May 5, 1942, as head of the Intelligence Division Major General George V. Strong, a senior officer possessed of a keen mind, a driving energy, and ruthless determination.  No longer handicapped by lack of money, the Chief of St