ecial convoy at a time when both merchant shipping and escort vessels were at a premium. General Somervell happened to be visiting my headquar- ters and I explained to him our urgent need for this equipment. He said he could be loading it out of American ports within three days, providing the Navy Department could furnish the escorts. I sent a query to Admiral King, then in Casablanca, and within a matter of hours had from him a simple “Yes.”!27/ The trucks began arriving in Africa in less than three weeks after I made my initial request.  General Somervell was still at my headquarters when the message came from the War Department that the last of the trucks had been shipped. The telegram from Somervell’s assistant, Major General Wilhelm D. Styer, eloquently told the story of unending hours of intensive work to arrange this emergency shipment. In a plaintive final sentence it said, “If you should happen to want the Pentagon shipped over there, please try to give us about a week's notice.”128]  The tremendous value of this shipment appeared in our increased ability to supply the needs of the battle front and even more in our ability to transfer troops rapidly from one portiqa of the front to another. The later move of the entire U.S. II Corps from the Tebessa region to northern Tunisia would have been completely impossible without the presence of these additional truck: At the same time our railway engineers, under the leadership of Brigadier General Carl Gray, were working miracles in improving the decrepit French line leading to the front. When we went into North Africa the railway could daily deliver a maximum of 900 tons of supplies. By introducing Yankee energy and modern American methods of operation Gray increased the daily tonnage to 3,000, and this before he received a single extra engine or boxcar from the United States.  Another particularly pleasing development was the steadily growing strength and efficiency of our air forces, and the construction of sui