aluable when the senior does the traveling, instead of sitting in his headquarters and waiting for sub- ordinates to come back to him with their problems.  Page 375 of 669 55%  eran of the Tunisian and Sicilian campaigns.  The American First Army, at the end of its brilliant march from the Seine to the German border, almost immediately launched the operations that finally brought about the reduction of Aachen, one of the gateways into Germany. The city was stubbornly and fiercely defended but Collins, with his VII Corps, carried out the attack so skillfully that by October 13 he had surrounded the garrison and entered the city. The enemy was steadily forced back into his final stronghold, a massive building in the center of the city. This was reduced by the simple expedient of dragging 155-mm. “Long Tom” rifles up to point-blank range—within 200 yards of the building—and methodically blowing the walls to bits. After a few of these shells had pierced the building from end to end the German com- mander surrendered on October 21, with the rueful observation, “When the Americans start using 155s as sniper weapons, it is time to give up!”121)  In the south Devers’ Sixth Army Group became operational and came under my command on September 15. The continuous front under control of SHAEF now extended from the Mediterranean in the south to the mouth of the Rhine, hundreds of miles to the north.  Devers’ forces included the U.S. Seventh Army under Lieutenant General Patch, and the French First Army under General de Lattre de Tassigny, previously under Patch’s operational control. Bradley’s army group comprised the First, Third, and the newly organized Ninth Army under Lieutenant General William H. Simpson.|22l Montgomery still had Dempsey’s British Second Army and Crerar’s Can- adian First Army. The Allied Airborne Army, temporarily assigned to him, was directly subordinate to SHAEF.  In October we learned that Leigh-Mallory was needed in another theater of war. Although relu