ype of work was to bring him, long before the end of this war, the three stars of a lieutenant general.  Many of the military faults revealed in the maneuvers, General McNair believed, had their root in discipline. “There is no question,” he said, “that many of the weaknesses developed in these maneuvers are repeated again and again for lack of discipline. Our troops are capable of the best of discipline. If they lack it, leadership is faulty. A commander who cannot develop proper discipline must be replaced.” /8!  During this time I had my first important introduction to the press camera, which, since the days of Brady, has been a prominent feature of the American military scene. In the fall of 1941, however, flash bulbs were a fairly novel element in my daily life and I was only an unknown face to the men who used them. During the critique at Camp Polk a group shot was made of General Krueger, Major E. M. Bolden, a British military observer, and me; in the caption my two companions were correctly identified, but I appeared as “Lt. Col. D. D. Ersenbeing”—at least the initials were right.  The maneuvers provided me with lessons and experience that I appreciated more and more as subsequent months rolled by. We conducted in Louisiana an extensive test of the usefulness of the cub plane for liaison and observation purposes. Its worth was demonstrated so conclusively that later, in the War Department, I was able to argue successfully, under the leadership of Assistant Secretary of War John J. McCloy, for its inclusion in the normal equipment of every division. These planes enabled our heavy and long-range artillery to gain an accuracy and quickness of adjustment previously restricted to the light guns within eyeshot of the target; and field commanders could get a grasp of the tactical situation—terrain, avenues of movement, concentrations of troops and artillery—almost as complete as in the eighteenth century, when the opposing commanders, from horseback or a hillock, c