aff that always inspired his own great feeling of confidence in the decisions of that body. He added that though the British would gladly accept Marshall as the Overlord commander the fact was that all the President’s associ- ates appeared pleased with the present decision.  The President was quite concerned with two points that did not seem particularly important to me, but to which both he and Mr. Harry Hopkins attached significance. The first of these was the timing of the announcement. It was finally decided that the President would do this from Washington; in the meantime my change in assignment would be a closely guarded secret.!12] The second point was my title as commander of Overlord. He toyed with the word “Supreme” in his conversation but made no decision at the moment. He merely said that he must devise some designation that would imply the importance the Allies attached to the new venture.|13]  A few days after the President’s departure I received from General Marshall a scrap of paper that is still one of my most cherished mementos of World War II. ee eee sree rece eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee e  Page 246 of 669 36%  The President was quite concerned with two points that did not seem particularly important to me, but to which both he and Mr. Harry Hopkins attached significance. The first of these was the timing of the announcement. It was finally decided that the President would do this from Washington; in the meantime my change in assignment would be a closely guarded secret.l12! The second point was my title as commander of Overlord. He toyed with the word “Supreme” in his conversation but made no decision at the moment. He merely said that he must devise some designation that would imply the importance the Allies attached to the new venture.  A few days after the President’s departure I received from General Marshall a scrap of paper that is still one of my most cherished mementos of World War II.  Page 247 of 669 37%  Sonn hy nena Be Uornr