tion of a coastal battery on Patos Island; that the Southern  TNafanca Cammand wrac activating a naw headaartare an tha enactal frantiar alana tha Gulf af Mavien urhara it wrac faarad Avice ehmarina activity wrac likalw ta ineraaca  Page 38 of 669 6%  any source, 1n favor oF any Individual in the Army, was more likely than not to boomerang 1f the Chier of otail became aware OF its existence. | was 1n Nis office one day when someone called him on the telephone, apparently to urge the promotion of some friend in the Army. His answer was, “If the man is a friend of yours, the best service you can do him is to avoid mentioning his name to me.”  Another thing that annoyed him was any effort to “pass the buck,” especially to him. Often he remarked that he could get a thousand men to do detailed work but too many were useless in responsible posts because they left to him the necessity of making every decision. He insisted that his principal assistants should think and act on their own conclusions in their own spheres of respon- sibility, a doctrine emphasized in our Army schools but too little practiced in peacetime.  By the same token he had nothing but scorn for any man who attempted “to do everything himself”—he believed that the man who worked himself to tatters on minor details had no ability to handle the more vital issues of war. Another type General Marshall disliked was the truculent personality—the man who confused firmness and strength with bad manners and deliberate discourtesy. He also avoided those with too great a love of the limelight. Moreover, he was irritated by those who were often in trouble with others or who were too stupid to see that leadership in conference, even with subordinates, is as important as on the battlefield.  Again, General Marshall could not stand the pessimist—the individual who was always painting difficulties in the darkest colors and was excessively fearful of the means at hand for overcoming them. He would never assign an officer