669 37%  For me the real value of this informal memorandum is in Marshall’s postscript. Already in the fall of 1943 false and malicious gossip was circulating to the effect that Marshall and I had been conducting a private vendetta, the prize to be the command of Overlord. Many of my friends knew that I hoped to remain somewhere in the field rather than return to Washington for duty. Yet never had I, or General Marshall, stooped to the level of conniving for position in either peace or war. I had never, and I know he had not, expressed to anyone a personal preference for a particular assign- ment. In fact from the personal viewpoint I would have preferred, over anything else, to remain as the Mediterranean commander.  Marshall's thoughtfulness in sending me a memento he knew I would value was certainly not the action of a disgruntled and defeated opponent for a “job.” While I have never discussed the matter directly with him, I have always been confident that it was his decision, more than anyone else’s, that sent me to the Overlord post. Since I first met General Marshall at the beginning of the war I felt for him only intense loyalty and respect, and I had already informed the President of my conviction that no one could undertake the Overlord command with greater prospect of success than could Mar- shall. I believed then, and I believe now, that he would have been as pre-eminent in field work as he was in the complicated duties he encountered in Washington.  The honor and confidence implied by my selection for this critical post were, of course, tremendous, and of this I was well aware and appreciative. Nevertheless, there is always slyne degree of emotional letdown when a military commander in war is removed from one task to enter upon another. By the nature of his work he has become so intimately tied up with close friends and assistants and with innumerable intricate problems that he feels almost a resentful shock at facing again the problem of building up org