while infarmation was gathered fram numbers of satirces The naval nlan invalved seneral nrotectinn mine sweenings escorting simnoarting  Page 280 of 669 AN%  RAMON A PUCIIA, UVAMRNEG Lh OLLAPE GI OU LICAVELY CULIOLE CML LOM LALAL VVEEREE JAMAALUIELS UE LER ILL WELLE CULAR CEI EU CPIM LUI, & COLLEY UE RUSE LEDC Y WUE PLVUAULY PEUV IME CULLUM PEVLCULIUIL AEGHISL ALO any wave action. Elaborate auxiliary equipment to facilitate unloading and all types of gear required in the operation of a modern port were planned for and provided. The British and American sec- tors were each to have one of the mulberry ports. Five gooseberries were to be installed.  Experience in Mediterranean warfare had demonstrated that each of our reinforced divisions in active operation consumed about 600 to 700 tons of supplies per day. Our maintenance arrange- ments had to provide for the arrival of these amounts daily. In addition we had simultaneously to build up on the beaches the reserves in troops, ammunition, and supplies that would enable us, within areasonable time, to initiate deep offensives with the certainty that these could be sustained through an extended period of decisive action. On top of all this we had to provide for bringing in the heavy engineering and construction material needed to re-establish and refit captured ports, to repair railways, bridges, and roads, and to build airfields. A further feature of the logistic plan, and a most im- portant one, provided for the speedy removal of wounded from the beaches and their prompt transfer to the great array of hospitals in England.  In SHAEF my principal logistic officers were Lieutenant General Sir Humfrey Gale and Major General R. W. Crawford, both widely experienced and extremely able. The commander of the American logistic organization was Lieutenant General John C. H. Lee. He was an engineer officer of long experience, with a reputation for getting things done. Because of his mannerisms and his stern insistence upon the ou