of Thala, toward Le Kef. The 34th Division was in position on the northern flank and, in spite of its long period of inactivity and dispersion, did good work in the defense. To help stop the enemy’s northward thrust, British artillery and tanks were rushed down from the north, where the enemy had somewhat thinned his lines in order to secure the strength for the Kasserine offensive. The artillery of the U.S. 9th Division also participated effectively in this action.[20l By the evening of the twenty-first it was apparent that the enemy had stretched himself to the limit and his supply was becoming difficult. More than this, his line of communications ran through the vulnerable Kasserine Gap and his troops to the west of that point were becoming precariously exposed to attack by any forces we could bring up.  The enemy’s advance, by the twenty-second, was completely stalled. George Patton, who always liked to bring up historical precedent, remarked, “Well, Von Arnim should have read about Lee’s attack at Fort Stedman.” There, outside Petersburg, the last desperate Confederate counterattack was stopped and driven back in bloody retreat by strong Union reserves.  Page 170 of 669 25%  enemy was able to prepare a strong defensive position ready to resist counterattack within two hours after his arrival on the spot. The enemy’s invariable practice upon capture of a hill or other feature was to plant his mines instantly, install his machine guns, and locate troops in nearby reserve where they could operate effectively against any force that we might send against them. These tactica lessons had apparently been ignored by commanders, even by those who had been in the theater for three months. I gave orders for immediate correction.  But by far the most serious defect was the fact that the U.S. 1st Armored Division was still not properly concentrated to permit its employment as a unit.l1Z1 At the moment General Anderson had such meager reserves throughout his long line that he