er phases of our operations, the chief of which, so far as we were concerned, was to prepare to attack Sicily as soon as Africa should be cleared.!2!  The remainder of the month of January and early February were employed in haste to get the battle line properly organized, to improve our airfields, and to bring up reinforcements, both in men and in supplies.110l A succession of relatively small enemy attacks along our front prevented full realization of our plan to assemble our larger units into proper formations. This was particularly ser- ious in its effect upon the U.S. 1st Armored Division, which the army commander thought necessary to use in relatively small packets along a considerable portion of his front.  General Marshall and Admiral King came on to Algiers upon the completion of the Casablanca Conference and the three of us carefully analyzed the situation. All understood the inherent risks resulting from the temporary failure of my all-out gamble but they enthusiastically approved the attempt, Admiral King saying, “We’ve seen what happens when commanders sit down and wait for the enemy to attack. Keep slugging!”  I expected General Alexander and Air Chief Marshal Tedder to join us in Tunisia about February 4 or 5 and I was looking forward to their arrival, anticipating an opportunity to secure better unification of the several sectors of the battle line. Because General Anderson, commanding the British First Army, had originally been engaged entirely in the north, his communications and com- mand post were so situated as to make most difficult his effective control of the central and southern portions of the long line.[11] On the other hand, the meager quality of the signal communications from west to east across North Africa made it impossible for me to stay permanently on what was essentially a single battle front. The arrival of Alexander would automatically correct this situation.  I was still concerned that both Anderson and Fredendall should clearly