n the thirteenth furnished the details of the German attack, and that day Air Chief Marshal Tedder was ordered to concentrate the full strength of his air force, to include every plane that could fly, in an attack upon sensitive spots in the German formations.!29| This great air attack was delivered with precision and effectiveness on the morning of the fourteenth. So badly did it disrupt the enemy’s communications, supplies, and mobility that, with the aid of naval gunfire, the ground troops regained the initiative and thereafter German counter- attacks were never in sufficient strength to threaten our general position.  But the hard fighting was not yet over. The two great initial objectives of the Italian invasion were the capture, first, of Naples as a satisfactory port from which to supply our troops, and, second, of the airfields at Foggia from which to supplement the air bombardment of central Europe, which up to that moment had been conducted almost exclusively from the British bases.  On the sixteenth I went to Salerno to examine into circumstances that seemed to indicate some lack of skill on the part of one or more of the American commanders. After careful investigation I felt it necessary to approve General Clark’s recommendation for the relief of his American corps commander.  The relief of a combat leader is something that is not to be lightly done in war. Its first effect is to indicate to troops dissatisfaction with their performance; otherwise the commander would be commended, not relieved. This probable effect must always be weighed against the hoped-for advantage of assigning to the post another, and possibly untried, commander. On the other hand, really inept leadership must be quickly detected and instantly removed. Lives of thousands are involved—the question is not one of academic justice for the leader, it is that of concern for the many and the objective of victory.  Because of the distance of Salerno from our air bases in Sicily we were par