even if he had the more ambitious objective of Antwerp he would have to depend partially upon supplies he might capture at Liége. We arrived at this conclusion because from the beginning we had counted upon the German deficiency in supplies, particularly the difficulties he was certain to encounter in transporting them to the front. Consequently we believed that his continued advance would depend, almost regardless of countermeasures of our own, upon the capture of one of our great supply depots.  Even if the German had possessed as efficient a supply system as we—which he did not—he would still have found tremendous difficulty in supplying his spearheads over the miserable roads available, which were at the same time, of course, crowded with his reinforcements pushing to the front.  MONSCHAU®  MALMEDY STAVELOT @  Page 416 of 669 60%  Antwerp he would have to depend partially upon supplies he might capture at Liége. We arrived at this conclusion because from the beginning we had counted upon the German deficiency in supplies, particularly the difficulties he was certain to encounter in transporting them to the front. Consequently we believed that his continued advance would depend, almost regardless of countermeasures of our own, upon the capture of one of our great supply depots.  Even if the German had possessed as efficient a supply system as we—which he did not—he would still have found tremendous difficulty in supplying his spearheads over the miserable roads available, which were at the same time, of course, crowded with his reinforcements pushing to the front.  ) AACHEN @  nnn l  U MONSCHAU®  MALMEDY\SSn STAVELOT @ y) 9  C  MARCHE  e LAROCHE  © Z ) ROCHEFORT HOUFFALIZE® / Dp  ST.HUBERT®@ BASTOGNE  Page 417 of 669 60%  ST.HUBERT®@ BASTOGNE  THE ARDENNES - DEC. 19, 1944 INITIAL GERMAN DRIVE 4G GERMAN ATTACK AMERICAN LINE  So we were particularly careful about Liége, where there were vast quantities of every kind of vital supplies, including fuel and food. Howev