d warning detachments were set up to guard against this threat. Because of the na- ture of the obstacle the crossing resembled an assault against a beach, except that the troops, instead of attacking from ship to shore, were carried into the battle from shore to shore.  Study of conditions indicated the great desirability of naval participation in the attack. We needed vessels of sufficient size to transport tanks with the leading assault waves, and so the Navy began the transfer to the front of landing boats known as LCMs and LCV(P)s. Part of these were brought up by waterways but many of them had to be hauled over the roads of northern Europe. Special trailers were constructed for the purpose and these small ships, some of them 45 feet in length and 14 feet wide, were successfully transported overland for participation in the attack.  Page 458 of 669 66%  Nad been relieved within three weeks alter the landing and replaced by Von Kluge. When the latter fared no better than Nis predecessor Hitler again determined to make a Change and called Von kund- stedt back into action. We understood at the time that the immediate cause of this second transfer was a belief that Von Kluge had participated in the July 20 plot against Hitler’s life. Hitler now determined to bring Field Marshal von Kesselring up from Italy.  Chapter 20 ASSAULT AND ENCIRCLEMENT ee  WHILE MONTGOMERY, ON THE NORTH, was waging the first of the February and March battles for the destruction of the German forces before the Rhine, additional Canadian and pilish strength began transferring from the Mediterranean to the Twenty-first Army Group. The move was called Operation Goldflake, and involved a Canadian corps from Italy and a British division from the Middle East. A large proportion of these troops landed at Marseille and cut across the entire network of Allied communications to reach their position on the northern flank. The difficult move was handled smoothly and skillfully by the staffs. No interfere