. As already noted, the bombastic Mussolini was thrown out. Evidence of unrest and dissatisfaction throughout the Italian nation became more and more pronounced and it was obvious that Italy was seeking the easiest way out of the war. Mussolini’s place as Premier was taken by old Field Marshal Pietro Badoglio.18] The initial pronouncements of the latter indicated his government’s purpose to continue in the war, but it was clear that this statement was made merely in the hope  Page 216 of 669 32%  the hospital present at the time of the incident. Finally, I required that he appear before the officers and representative groups of enlisted men of each of his divisions to assure them that he had given way to impulse and respected their positions as fighting soldiers of a democratic nation.|151  Patton instantly complied and I kept in touch with results again through a series of observers and inspectors.  In the meantime, as soon as I had determined upon my course of action, I called in to see me the group of reporters who had brought me the story of the occurrence. I explained to them in detail the action I had taken and the reasons for it. I read them the letter I had written to Patton and extracts from the letter he wrote me in reply. This, so far as I was then concerned, closed the incident.  On one point connected with the matter there has been considerable misapprehension. This was the assumption that censorship was applied. On the contrary, my staff and General Patton were told that under no circumstances was there to be any effort to suppress the story. These specific instructions, which I issued personally to a group of newspapermen, covered “indirect pressure” as well as direct censorship. They were flatly told to use their own judgment!i16| That they voluntarily refused to write or speak about the matter is proved by the fact that two of the press representatives who made a detailed report to me of the affair returned to the United States within a few days aft