uld provide effective leadership for combat troops. I felt that I knew him well because, at the end of the first World War, he and I had formed a fast friendship that could even include heated, sometimes almost screaming, argument over matters that more often than not were doctrinal and academic rather than personal or material.  With approval of the Chief of Staff, I called Patton to Washington and, though I knew the answer in advance, asked him whether he was willing to step down from command of his training corps to take a division into actual battle. His answer was in pleasing contrast to that of another corps commander who, when asked to take command of an American combat corps in the Pacific, declined on the basis that it was not fitting that he, a senior corps commander, should serve under an Australian “amateur” soldier.  The desert project for the employment of Patton’s division was defeated largely by lack of available shipping. To transport an armored division by sea there are required, entirely aside from escorting combat vessels, a total of 45 troop and cargo ships.!l In this instance the convoy would have had to reach Cairo by the long route circling the Cape of Good Hope. The absence of so many ships from other vital supply missions could not be tolerated at the moment.  The incident was a valuable lesson to me, however. I realized that selection of personnel for key positions would, even in war, frequently be opposed only on the basis of routine consideration and commonly accepted standards, and would sometimes be influenced by nothing more important than the single factor of deportment. Also I learned that combat commanders must be selected from among those who preferred a battle-line position to any other, regardless of lesser considerations.  Development of the Operations Division went so well that my key assistants and I gradually gained more time for thinking and study. We could safely leave routine operations in the hands of a group of outstand