eared the exodus of men, beginning in September, would not be matched by a comparable inflow.  But even the rapid growth of the Army and the latest manifestations of Axis military power had not jolted some Regular officers out of their rigid devotion to obsolete tenets and routine. For their blindness there was no longer an acceptable excuse. In the civilian components another type of difficulty was encountered. Many Guard and Reserve officers had grown old in the prewar struggle to maintain a citizen security force, and now that their efforts of the twenties and thirties were bearing fruit, they themselves were physically unable to meet the demands of field duty in combat echelons.  General Krueger himself was one of the senior officers of the Army. A private, corporal, and sergeant in the late 1890s, he had an Army-wide reputation as a hard-bitten soldier. But through more than forty years of service he had kept pace with every military change, and few officers had a clearer grasp of what another war would demand of the Army; few were physically tougher or more ac- tive. Relentlessly driving himself, he had little need of driving others—they were quick to follow his example.  His Third Army was now directed to concentrate in Louisiana for a great maneuver, with Lieutenant General Ben Lear’s Second Army as its opponent. Not one of our officers on the active list had commanded a unit as large as a division in the first World War. Like a vast laboratory experiment, the maneuvers would prove the worth of ideas, men, weapons, and equipment. More than 270,000 men—the largest army ever gathered in the United States for a single tactical operation—were assembled by General Krueger that September. Moving out of Second Army camps at the same time were another 130,000.12  The beneficial results of that great maneuver were incalculable. It accustomed the troops to mass teamwork; it speeded up the process of eliminating the unfit; it brought to the specific attention of senior