a more modest objective had to be accepted in the Mediterranean, because to insure seizure of the Po Valley would necessitate withholding from the United Kingdom so many troops and so much vital equipment that the cross-Channel operation could not be undertaken in the spring of 1944.  My own recommendation, then as always, was that no operation should be undertaken in the Mediterranean except as a directly supporting move for the Channel attack and that our planned redeployment to England should proceed with all possible speed. Obviously a sufficient strength had to be kept in the Mediterranean to hold what we had already gained and to force the Nazis to main- tain sizable forces in that area.  This was the program adopted by the Cairo Conference, and our shipment of troops and equipment to England continued without abatement.!10! The psychological value of the capture of Rome was, however, emphasized to us, particularly by the Prime Minister.  Again I had an opportunity for private talks with the President, at one of which he informally presented me with the Legion of Merit. His conversation revolved more around postwar problems than those of immediate operations. He gave me his ideas on the post-hostilities occupation of Germany and listened sympathetically to my contention that occupation should become a responsibility of civil agencies of government as soon as the exigencies of war might permit. He mentioned domestic politics only to say that, much as he’d like to go back to private life, it looked as if he’d have to stand again for the presidency.  One evening General Marshall asked me with some others to dinner. It was a splendid American dinner with turkey and all that goes with it. As the guests were leaving, one said to General Marshall, “Thank you very much for a fine Thanksgiving dinner.” I turned around in complete astonishment and said, “Well, that shows what war does to a man. I had no idea this was Thanksgiving Day.”  A personally pleasing incident of