Q Intelligence divisions as the exaggeration of green, untried troops. The belief that the main attack was still to come through Fondouk persisted, both at Army headquarters and, as I later learned, in the G-2 Division at AFHQ.!19| The G-2 error was serious. After the battle I replaced the head of my Intelligence organ- ization at AFHQ. The result of this misconception was that the penetration gained a tremendous headway before General Anderson could understand what was actually taking place.  Realizing by nightfall that reinforcements in men and equipment would be needed quickly and urgently, I hastened back to headquarters to hurry them forward. We scraped the barrel and then I started back to the front.  During the withdrawal the Americans fought a series of ineffective, though gallant, delaying actions on the way back toward Kasserine Pass, a spot clearly indicated as one to be strongly held. But there was a local lack of appreciation of exactly what was happening and the troops assigned were neither numerous enough nor skillful enough to hold that strong position. The enemy armor pushed on through the hastily constructed defense in the pass.  Finally, however, in spite of surprise and relatively large losses, our troops rallied in good fashion and fell back to cover the important center of Tebessa and the routes leading northward from Kasserine toward Le Kef.  Our forward airfields at Thelepte had to be temporarily abandoned but the air force pulled out with no loss of personnel or machines and with immaterial losses in fuel and other supplies. Just behind Tebessa was the field of Youks-les-Bains, and it was therefore doubly important for the II Corps to hold this center of communications. Farther to the north it had to resist a German penetration in the direction of Thala, toward Le Kef. The 34th Division was in position on the northern flank and, in spite of its long period of inactivity and dispersion, did good work in the defense. To help stop the enemy’s n