tions for an eastward attack, changed front, and undertook a movement extending over sixty to seventy miles at right angles to its former direction of advance. In less than seventy-two hours from the time Patton’s staff had its orders an entire corps of his army had initiated a new attack.|5!  In dozens of ways scientists and inventors transformed the face of war. In landing on beaches we had the great advantage of new types of naval equipment and even tanks that could swim ashore after being launched into the water many hundreds of yards from the beach. Before the end of the war we were employing in great numbers recoilless weapons of very light weight that delivered pro- jectiles of tremendous force.[61  While we studied the effect on the conduct of war of new vehicles, new weapons, new systems of transport and communications, at the same time we re-examined the role of the fundamental agent in military success—the individual soldier.  The trained American possesses qualities that are almost unique. Because of his initiative and resourcefulness, his adaptability to change and his readiness to resort to expedient, he becomes, when he has attained a proficiency in all the normal techniques of battle, a most formidable soldier. Yet even he has his limits; the preservation of his individual and collective strength is one of the greatest responsibilities of leadership.  Veteran organizations are normally more capable than those entering battle for the first time. However, experience in fighting does not engender any love of the battlefield; veterans have no greater desire to enter the bullet-swept areas than have green troops. They do become more skillful in the utilization of every advantage offered by fire power, maneuver, and terrain. They acquire a steadiness that is not shaken by the confusion and destruction of battle. But when kept too long in the fight they not only become subject to physical and mental weariness; the most venturesome and aggressive among them—