ttitude was typical of the great proportion of soldiers and civilians alike. Happily there were numerous exceptions whose devoted efforts accomplished more than seemed possible.  Despite the deepening of congressional concern, the nation was so unprepared to accept the seriousness of the world outlook that training could not be conducted in realistic imitation of the battlefield. We had to carry it on in soothing-syrup style calculated to rouse the least resentment from the soldiers themselves and from their families at home. Many senior officers stood in such fear of a blast in the headlines against exposing men to inclement weather or to the fatigue of extended maneuvers that they did not prescribe the only type of training that would pay dividends once the bullets began to fly. Urgent directives from above and protest from the occasional “alarmist” could not eliminate an apathy that had its roots in comfort, blindness, and wishful thinking.  The induction of the National Guard sharply increased the Army’s numerical strength, particularly in infantry and anti-aircraft. Although undermanned, underequipped, and undertrained, the organizational structure of the Guard outfits was complete; only recruits, equipment, time, and the right kind of training were needed to make them effective.  Bright spots in the military picture gradually emerged. Congress in the fall of 1940 provided some money for critically needed field training. This training, under the supervision of Major General, later Lieutenant General, Lesley J. McNair, one of our ablest officers, became the chief preoccupation of the Army. From Fort Lewis the 15th Infantry, as part of the 3d Infantry Division, went on extended field maneuvers to outlying districts in the state of Washington and to the Monterey Peninsula, some distance south of San Francisco. The attendant marches, logistic planning, tactical prob- lems, and necessary staff work provided the best possible schools for officers and men, both Regula