ce into southern France provided definite tactical and strategic support to our own operation.  Page 336 of 669 49%  BRITTANY SWEEP AUG. 1-12,1944  To any such change I was opposed, and since the United States Chiefs of Staff, following their usual practice, declined to interfere with the conclusions of the commander in the field, I instantly became the individual against whom the Prime Minister directed all his argument. In brief he advanced the following points:  We no longer had any need of the port of Marseille and the line of communication leading northward from it. Troops in America could come in via Brittany.  The attack through the south of France was so far removed geographically from the troops in northern France that there was no tactical connection between them.  The troops to be used under General Devers in the southern invasion would have more effect in winning the war by driving forward in Italy and into the Balkans and threatening Germany from the south than they would by pursuing the originally planned line of action.  Our entry into the Balkans would encourage that entire region to flame into open revolt against Hitler and would permit us to carry to the resistance forces arms and equipment which would make the efforts of these forces more effective.  My own stand was defined generally as follows:  Experience of the past proved that we were likely to be vastly disappointed in the usefulness of the Brittany ports. Not only did we expect them to be stubbornly defended but we were certain they would be effectively destroyed once we had captured them. We did not expect this destruction to be so marked at Marseille because we knew that a large portion of the defending forces had already been drawn northward to meet our attacks. Capture should be so swift as to allow little time for demolition.  The distance from Brest to the Metz region was greater than the distance from Marseille to Metz. The railway lines connecting the two former points were much mor