ted to concentrate in Louisiana for a great maneuver, with Lieutenant General Ben Lear’s Second Army as its opponent. Not one of our officers on the Beive list had commanded a unit as large as a division in the first World War. Like a vast laboratory experiment, the maneuvers would prove the worth of ideas, men, weapons, and equipment. More than 270,000 men—the largest army ever gathered in the United States for a single tactical operation—were assembled by General Krueger that September. Moving out of Second Army camps at the same time were another 130,000.12!  The beneficial results of that great maneuver were incalculable. It accustomed the troops to mass teamwork; it speeded up the process of eliminating the unfit; it brought to the specific attention of seniors certain of the younger men who were prepared to carry out the most difficult assignments in staff and command; and it developed among responsible leaders skill in the handling of large forces in the fields. Practical experience was gained in large-scale field supply of troops. No comparable peacetime attempt had ever been made by Americans in the road movement of food, fuel, and ammu- nition from railhead and depot to a constantly shifting front line. Advance planning, consequently, was thorough and intensive; as is always the case, it paid off.  “The essential effectiveness of supply,” General McNair, expert in the conduct and assessment of maneuvers, told the assembled staffs in a critique of the operations, “was an outstanding feature of the maneuvers. The magnitude of the problem alone was sufficient to warrant apprehension as to whether the troops would be supplied adequately. Combat commanders and the services alike deserve the highest praise for the results achieved.” The efficiency of American trucks in the movement of troops and supply, demonstrated so magnificently three years later in the race across France, was fore- cast on the roads of Louisiana in September 1941.  In the Third Army the off