d States, before the surrender date in Europe.  Page 508 of 669 74%  SOCUTIM CLICIILY 1IVULVEUM ELIE CLAS MULE UL TELLUS OE LADO AL ALI ULDEIETIILOU GUALILILIE DS UL CUP iPresit 121i DULUVS Lal WAY ALUULI LIE WULLE LY Japall.  Russian redeployment meant the shifting of large forces from west to east over the long Trans-Siberian Railway. Because only the one railroad system was available, that task was laborious and would take time to accomplish. But for the Western Allies the transfer of their European armies and air forces to the Asiatic theater was a stupendous undertaking, involving hundreds of ships operat- ing over sea routes ten thousand miles long.  As early as February 1945 we had begun to develop plans to accomplish this move. There was continuous consultation between members of my staff and the War Department. By V-E Day, schedules, priorities, and organizational preparation were sufficiently advanced for us to begin the mass transfer to the Pacific.  Several factors made still harder a problem that was at best a very complex business. Adequate strength had to be maintained in Europe for the occupation of conquered Germany. The immediately critical requirements in the Asiatic theater were for service units, while our own need for these same units was more acute than ever before if we were speedily to accomplish the shipment of combat divisions to the Far East. Even greater difficulty grew out of our policy of equalizing the burdens of combat service among the millions of individuals in the command.  On the day of the surrender there were, in the great Allied Force, more than 3,000,000 Americans under my command. This force included sixty-one U.S. divisions, all except one of which had participated in actual battle.  Men with the longest battle service were to be assigned to occupation duty or sent home; others were to go on to the Pacific. Many of our divisions were veterans of eleven months’ continuous fighting, while some, among them the 1st, 3d, 9th, 36