st week of the campaign alone reached 240,000, of which ap- proximately 125,000 were German. Included in these captures was all that was left of the Afrika Korps and a number of other crack German and Italian units.  [e) MATEUR MAY 3 DJEDEIDA ie)  h GROMBALIA  :  pped the interest of the entire theater. Both positions were Longstop—the battles for its possession from the ace was Hill 609, eventually captured by the 34th  hrough tough going and captured Bizerte on the  28%  attempt to retreat to make a last stand in the manner of Bataan.|45| Alexander’s swift action, regardless of the many thousands of enemy still fighting in confused packets along the front of the First ed this last desperate hope of the enemy. From then on the operations were of a mopping-up variety. Some fighting continued until the twelfth but by the following xcept for a few s, the only living Germans left in Tunisia were y within prison cages. The number of prisoners during the last week of the campaign alone reached 240,000, of which ap-  @ MATEUR MAY 3  DJEDEIDA  4a TEBOURBA @; a  TEBOURSOUK oa UAN  BOU-ARADA® BOLI-FICHA @  TUNIS-FINAL PHASE MAY 1! -~MAY13 @@mes FRONT LINE MAY |  ENFIDAVILLE  attempt to ret: to make t stand in the manner of Bataan.|45] / nder’s swift action, regardless of the many thousands of enemy still fighting in confused pack long the front of the First Army, destroyed this last desperate hope of the enemy. From then on the operations were of a mopping-up variety. Some fighting continued until the twelfth but by the following day, except for a few  ers in the mountains, the only living Germans left i isia were safely within prison cages. The number of prisoners during the last week of the campaign alone reached 240,000, of which ap- proximately 125,000 were German. Included in these captures was all that was left of the Afrika Korps and a number of other crack German and Italian units.|461  @ MATEUR MAY 3  TEBOURSOUK ee UAN  BOU-ARADA® BOLI-FICHA @  TUNIS- FINAL PHASE MA