at failed to look squarely in the face such factors as the fanaticism of great portions of the German Army and the remaining strength of a nation that was inspired to desperate action, if by no other means than the Gestapo and Storm Troopers, who  were completely loyal to their master, Hitler.  Our new situation brought up one of the longest-sustained arguments that I had with Prime Minister Churchill throughout the period of the war. This argument, beginning almost coincidentally  with the break-through in late July, lasted throughout the first ten days of August. One session lasted several hours. The discussions involved the wisdom of going ahead with Anvil, by Dragoon, the code name for the operation that was to bring in General Devers’ forces through the south of France.  fen renamed  One of the early reasons for planning this attack was to achieve an additional port of entry through which the reinforcing divisions already prepared in America could pour rapidly into the European invasion. The Prime Minister held that we were now assured of early use of the Brittany ports and that the troops then in the Mediterranean could be brought in via Brittany, or even might better be  used in the prosecution of the Italian campaign with the eventual purpose of invading the Balkans via the head of the Adriatic.  AVRANCHES 49%  Vill CORPS  , AVRANCHES  @ MORTAIN  @/ RENNES  BRITTANY SWEEP AUG. 1-12,1944  RENNES  QUIBERON BAY :  BRITTANY SWEEP  AUG. 1-12,1944  10 MILES 30 _— as ———— |  To any such change I was opposed, and since the United States Chiefs of Staff, following their usual practice, declined to interfere with the conclusions of the commander in the field, I instantly  became the individual against whom the Prime Minister directed all his argument. In brief he advanced the following points:  We no longer had any need of the port of Marseille and the line of communication leading northward from it. Troops in America could come in via Brittany.  The attack through th