ersed effort added to your burdens. The German is now licked. It is merely a question of when he chooses to quit. Thank God you stuck by your guns.”1121  The operational schedule for the first phase of our strategic plan—destruction of the enemy strength west of the Rhine—contemplated three major assaults. The first would be by the Twenty-first Army Group at the northern flank of our lines; the second, by Bradley’s group in the center; and the third, a converging attack by Bradley and Devers to eliminate the enemy garrison in the Saar Basin.  ARNHEM  MUNSTER e  Page 440 of 669 64%  Se oS Se ee ee ee ee ee ee oe ee gS eee ESE ee ee ee ee ees ee eee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee eee of what individual or what nation gets the glory, for I must tell you in my opinion there is no glory in battle worth the blood it costs.”  Field Marshal Brooke expressed the hope that things would work out as I believed they would; but he was apparently doubtful of Allied ability to destroy the German forces between us and the Rhine River by a succession of crushing blows.  At the same time there was again suggested to me the establishment of an over-all “ground commander” to operate directly under SHAEF. I repudiated this suggestion, as I always had before. I was certain that our plans for the completion of the German defeat were the best that could be devised. Entirely aside from my feeling that the proposed arrangement would be futile and clumsy, I was de- termined to prevent any interference with the exact and rapid execution of those plans.|21  In early January, I learned that the President, the Prime Minister, and their staffs were again to meet with Generalissimo Stalin, this time at Yalta. General Marshall proceeded separately from the rest of the American group into Europe, and I arranged to meet him secretly at Marseille. I went there on January 25 and we had a long talk about the situation as we then saw it.  In Washington he had heard rumblings of the British Staff’s dissatisfaction w