ar leader and he is a great man.  Our planning and organizational work sometimes involved differences in national conceptions that struck at the very foundation of our basic plan. These points were discussed in an atmosphere of cordiality and objectivity, but they were none the less serious. Whenever I found myself opposed to the views of the Prime Minister, he was, of course, supported by his War Cabinet and technical advisers. That differences should occur was inescapable and natural. Varying situations in national geography bring with them differences in military doctrine, and special war experiences bring with them strong differences in projected strategy. An early instance involved the proposed employment of our slowly developing bombing force.  The U.S. Army Air Forces believed in daylight bombing with the heavily defended Fortress type of bomber as the backbone of the organization.|171 I emphatically agreed. Each of these planes carried ten .50-caliber machine guns for defense. We believed that. in suitable close formations permitting concentration of a terrific fire power. thev could proceed well outside of the area in which thev could  Page 68 of 669 10%  ae 2S ee ee See ee ee Ve ee ee ee eee ee ee eS ee ee ee ee eee eee ee ee EE EE ee ee ee ee survival—are raised to the maximum. But the American soldier, in spite of wisecracking, sometimes cynical speech, is an intelligent human being who demands and deserves basic understanding of the reasons why his country took up arms and of the conflicting consequences of victory or defeat. Von Steuben commented vividly on this point during the American Revolution. He explained ina letter to a friend that in Europe you tell a soldier to do thus, and he does it; and that in America it is necessary also to tell him why he does it.  Once the recruit of 1941 was inducted into the service the military leader had to shoulder almost exclusive responsibility for imparting such an understanding, but there was implied a glaring