sings of the Seine River. The operation assumed this over-all picture: Montgomery’s army group was attacking generally southward against the old Normandy beachhead defenses, while Bradley’s forces, with their left anchored near the position of the initial break-through, were carrying out the great envelopments intended to trap the entire German force still between his marching columns and the front of the British Twenty-first Army Group. In the meantime the Allied air forces kept up an incessant battering against any possible crossings of the Seine so as to impede the escape of any German forces that might try to cross to the north of that river before the trap could be closed. Perfection of co-ordination in such an operation is difficult to achieve.  LE HAVRE e * Feeete  e EVREUX  ° VERNEUIL  Page 331 of 669 49%  the opportunity for sweeping up remaining portions of the German First and Seventh Armies by directing an even wider employment toward the crossings of the Seine River. The operation assumed this over-all picture: Montgomery’s army group was attacking generally southward against the old Normandy beachhead defenses, while Bradley’s forces, with their left anchored near the position of the initial break-through, were carrying out the great envelopments intended to trap the entire German force still between his marching columns and the front of the British Twenty-first Army Group. In the meantime the Allied air forces kept up an incessant battering against any possible crossings of the Seine so as to impede the escape of any German forces that might try to cross to the north of  that river before the trap could be closed. Perfection of co-ordination in such an operation is difficult to achieve. LE HAVRE e@  CARENTAN  ST.LO @ LISIEUX oO e  © COUTANCES ; EVREUX  o\ ARGENTAN e A VERNEUIL  . @ FOUGERES  RENNES @  49%  @\ARVENTAIN e  VERNEUIL  . © NOGENT-LE- FOUGERES T-LE-ROTROU  RENNES @  THE FALAISE ENCIRCLEMENT LE MANS  LINE OF AUGUST 14  By the night of August