nt that the venture on which I was going to Britain would mark the first deliberate attempt by the American fighting services to set up a unified command in the field for a campaign of indefinite length. He assured me that he would do everything within his power to sustain my status of actual “commander” of American forces assigned to me. He said that he wanted no foolish talk about my authority depending upon “co-operation and paramount interest.” He insisted that there should be single responsibility and authority and he cordially invited me to communicate with him personally at any time that I thought there might be intentional or unintentional violation of this concept by the Navy.  All this was of vital importance to me because, before that time, Joint Regulations for the control of Army-Navy forces in the field had stressed the principle of “paramount interest”|5] in determining which service should have directing authority and responsibility.  General Clark and I, with a few assistants, left Washington in late June 1942./6| This time the parting from my family seemed particularly difficult although it was, in a sense, a mere repetition of previous instances covering many years. Our son came down from West Point; he, my wife, and I had two days together, and then I left.  Our party landed in England without incident and 1 immediately assumed command of the European Theater of Operations, United States Army, which then comprised only the United Kingdom and Iceland. Since it was a wartime habit to manufacture new words from group initials, it was inevitable that the theater should quickly acquire the popular name of ETOUSA.  The United States theater in Europe was established for the purpose of preparing the American part of the invasion of the Continent, agreed upon between the British and American governments as the main strategical effort in defeating Germany. Here are short excerpts from the directive:  The Commanding General...European Theater,...will comma