pital assistants, dietitians, personal assistants, and even junior staff officers in many headquarters. George Patton, later in the war, was to insist that one of his most valuable assistants was his Wac office manager.  By late December my own personal staff, starting from a total of two individuals eight months before, had achieved the composition that it was substantially to maintain throughout the remainder of the war. Commander Harry Butcher of the Navy and Captain Ernest Lee were personal aides. Nana Rae, Margaret Chick, and Sue Sarafian were personal and office secretaries. Kay Summersby was corresponding secretary and doubled as a driver. Sergeants Leonard Dry and Pearlie Hargreaves were chauffeurs. Sergeants Popp, Moaney, Hunt, Novak, and Williams, with Sergeant Farr as a later re- placement, ran the house, field camp, and mess. Colonel James Gault of the Scots Guard shortly joined me and thereafter remained with me throughout the war as British Military Assistant.  Sergeant Michael McKeogh was my orderly, who accompanied me always and was close by my side, day and night. One day in Africa I had to make a hurried trip to the front and I telephoned to Sergeant McKeogh to bring a bag to the airfield. Flying conditions were deplorable and, in the total absence of flying aids in the mountainous country of Tunisia, the prospect of the flight was not enjoyable. When I got to the plane I found Sergeant McKeogh also prepared to make the journey. I said, “Mickey, I intend to return tomorrow, and I doubt that I will need you before then. Flying condi- tions are not comfortable and there is no use in both of us being miserable. You mav go on back to quarters.”  Page 155 of 669 23%  ne eee ee ee ee ee ee ew one ee ene ee nnn ee ee Tee ee eee ee ee ee ee eee eee ee ee eee i ee ene ew eae ee eee ee eee ee eee nnn enw ee i eee eee ee eee ee ee ee eee eee ne Te ne Ne A Ne NN YL AN ADDR AND EN NDR was required for military uses. Wheat, coal, cloth, medicine, soaps, and a my