veral of them we knew that this method was futile. In desperation I asked Admiral Cunningham if he had a fas p in port. By good fortune one of the speediest afloat was then at Gibraltar getting up steam to rush some vital supplies into Malta, and without hesitation the admiral offered her to me for the necessary time to make contact with the Western Task Force. I chose Rear Admiral Bernhard H. Bieri of the United States Navy to head a staff group, and they took off within the hour./141  On the morning of November 9, General Clark and General Giraud went by air to Algiers in an effort to make some kind of agreement with the highest French authorities. Their mission was to end the fighting and to secure French assistance in projected operations against the Germans  General Giraud’s cold reception by the French in Africa was a terrific blow to our tions. He was completely ignored. He made a broadcast, announcing assumption of leadership of French North Africa and directing French forces to cease fighting against the Allies, but his speech had no effect whatsoever. I was doubtful that it was even heard by significant numbers. Radio communica-  Arata Leek 2 ee ~--- woh ak 22 tt a ek Se Dens SS Bed  SPANISH MOROCCO  NOV. 8-15, 1942 AIRBORNE LANDINGS  At Oran we got ashore, but the French forces in that region, particularly the naval elements, resisted bitterly.111 Some hard fighting ensued and the U.S. 1st Division, which was later to travel such a long battle road in this war, got its first taste of conflict. In spite of incomplete training, the 1st Division, supported by elements of the 1st Armored Division, made progress and on November 9 we knew we would soon be able to report victory in that area. On the tenth all fighting ceased at Oran.!12! Generals Fredendall and Terry de la M. Allen met their initial battle tests in good fashion.  We knew that the attack on the west coast was launched, but there was no news of its progress. Actually at certain points, notably Por