r history and his frequent reference to it always gave an added flavor to conversation with him on military subjects. The same was true of George Patton and the Prime Minister.  I wandered off to inspect some burnt-out tanks while the President and his Wac driver had their lunch. When I returned he remarked, “Ike, if, one year ago, you had offered to bet that on this day the President of the United States would be having his lunch on a Tunisian roadside, what odds could you have demanded?” This thought apparently directed his mind to the extraordinary events of the year just past. He told me, first, what a disappointment it had been to him that our African invasion came just after, instead of just before, the 1942 elections. He spoke of Darlan, of Boisson and Giraud. He talked of Italy and Mussolini and of the uneasiness he had felt during the Kasserine affair. He told of instances of disagreement with Mr. Churchill, but earnestly and almost emotionally said, “No one could have a better or sturdier ally than that old Tory!” Mr. Roosevelt seemed to be enjoying himself sincerely, but his reminiscences were interrupted by a Secret Service man who approached to say, “Mr. President, we've been here longer than I like. We should go on now.” The President grinned and said to me, “You are lucky you don’t have the number of bosses I have.”  The Secret Service had objected strenuously to the battlefield tour for the President but I felt so well acquainted with conditions that I thought the trip was perfectly safe. Because of the fact that it was a surprise move, executed without warning to anyone, it tended to add to rather than detract from the degree of safety enjoyed by the President.  To give General Marshall and Admiral King some release from the restrictions that inevitably accompany travel with a presidential party I invited the two of them to stay at my lise cottage in Carthage. Both were outspokenly delighted to have the opportunity for a quiet evening, and both seem