pathetic to us. But since all the hated Vichy officials had carefully ingratiated themselves with the Arab population it was manifest that only through progressive changes and careful handling of personnel could we prevent the Arab-French-Jewish pot from boiling over.  To illustrate the delicacy of the situation: very early we had insisted that the French authorities ameliorate anti-Jewish laws and practices, going far beyond the bounds of “Allied co-operation” in the forcefulness of our demands. Appropriate proclamations were issued and we felt that some progress had been achieved. Imagine my astonishment when Darlan came to my office with a letter signed by aman whom he identified as the “Rabbi of Constantine,” which implored the authorities to go very slowly in relaxation of anti-Jewish practices, else, the letter said, the Arabs would undoubtedly stage a pogrom! This minor example of the confused nature of the racial and political relationships was multiplied daily in innumerable directions.  Politics, economy, fighting—all were inextricably mixed up and confused one with the other.  On the nolitical side Murvhv and his British counternart. Mr. Harold Macmillan. worked tirelesslv. but thev had had to deal with the dangerous Darlan. later with the gallant and honest but  Page 151 of 669 22%  and worse, Dut ne was the roreign iviinister to the ouitan, all reports indicated that he enjoyed tne ruil confidence and triendasnip of the Moroccans. ine flerce tribesmen of that area were a force to be reckoned with; General Patton was fearful of the whole situation and still adhered to his estimate that if the Moroccans should grow antagonistic to us it would require 60,000 fully equipped Ameri- cans to keep order in that region alone. We could not afford—and did not have—any such force. Patton strongly counseled us to let Nogués alone!  One complication in the Arab tangle was the age-old antagonism existing between the Arab and the Jew. Since the former outnumbered the l