le of July, would have been defeated. And it is well to remember that caution and timidity are not synonymous, just as boldness and rashness are not!  Among the American leaders, Bradley had done so well in Sicily that when General Marshall, toward the end of August, asked my recommendation on the Army commander for the United States troops in Great Britain, I answered: “The truth of the matter is that you should take Bradley and moreover I will make him available on any date you select.” Shortly thereafter General Bradley assumed his new duties in England.[111  One of the valuable outcomes of the campaign was the continued growth and development of the spirit of comradeship between British and American troops in action. The Seventh Army, in its first campaign, had established a reputation that gained the deep respect of the veteran British Eighth, while on the American side there was sincere enthusiasm for the fighting qualitie)of their Brit- ish and Canadian partners.  The operations brought to a high degree of efficiency the co-ordination among air, naval, and ground forces. The Navy, in its escorting, supporting, and maintenance functions, performed miracles and always in exact co-ordination with the needs and support of the other arms. The real preliminary to the assault was a vast bombing operation by air.|12] Entirely aside from its success in defeating the enemy air forces, it so badly battered the enemy communications in Sicily and southern Italy that the mobility of his forces was materially lowered and the supply of his troops was a most diffi- cult process.  The development of this international and interservice spirit had begun with the establishment of a headquarters in London in July of the previous year. By the end of the Sicilian campaign it was so firmly established and so much a part of the daily lives of commanders and staffs that it was scarcely necessary longer to treat it as a problem.  It was during this campaign that the unfortunate “slappin