dered the concentration of the corps of four divisions to begin and told the logistics people they would have to find a way to supply it.  The U.S. 1st Infantry Division was to be assigned to this corps as quickly as it could be assembled from its scattered positions on the front and brought into this sector. The U.S. 9th Division, less the 39th Regimental combat team which had participated in the Algiers assault, was gradually transferred eastward from the Casablanca area and was to go under command of II Corps when the move- ment could be completed. The 34th Division received similar orders, its duties in the line of communication to be taken over by the French.1181  The instructions given to the American II Corps were to provide a strategic flank guard for our main forces in the north.119| Fredendall was directed to hold the mountain passes with light infantry detachments and to concentrate the assembled 1st Armored Division in rear of the infantry outposts, ready to attack in force any hostile column that might attempt to move through the mountains toward our line of communications. General Fredendall was further authorized, upon completion of the assembly of his corps, to undertake offensive action in the direction of Sfax or Gabés in an effort to sever Rommel’s line of communications with Tunisia.!20l A portion of the staff became obsessed with the idea of the potential results of such an operation and desired to order it forthwith. I disapproved: our immediate capacity for an offensive was nil. So that there could be no misunderstanding I held a personal conference with General Fredendall and completely outlined my purpose in concentrating his corps in the Tebessa area. These purposes were, as stated, to provide a mobile, strategic flank guard on our right, with its striking force represented principally in the concentrated armored division, which was stronger in tanks than anything the enemy could bring against it. Only when he could be assured that the whol