ertaken because of our faith in the ability of the air forces, by concentrating their striking power, to give air cover and emergency assistance to the beachhead during the build-up perjod, and in the power of the Navy to render close and continuous gunfire support to the landing troops until they were capable of taking care of themselves. S  The landing and succeeding operations developed almost identically to G-2 predictions. There was a sharp but relatively short fight in getting ashore and with minor exceptions the details of the actual landing proceeded well. The enemy, as was his custom, immediately began to counterattack and by the thirteenth had gathered up sufficient strength to make a major effort to throw us into the sea. During this period German propaganda was ridiculing the operation as a great mistake and pouring out over the radios of the world predictions of a complete defeat for the Allied invasion.  On the thirteenth the German attack struck in all its fury, and fierce fighting ensued for a considerable period.[28| The greatest pressure of the German attack came in the center and pushed forward to within two or three miles of the beach. The outlook became somewhat gloomy, particularly when the American 36th Division was struck from an unexpected direction and suffered heavy losses before it could extricate and recover itself. At one time it looked so probable that the invasion forces might be divided that General Clark made tentative plans for re-embarking his headquarters in order to control both sectors and to continue the battle in whichever one offered the greatest chance for success. This tentative plan, repeated to headquarters in garbled form, caused consternation because it seemed to indicate that commanders on the spot were discouraged and preparing to withdraw the whole force. This was actually not the case. General Clark and General Richard L. McCreery, com- manding the British 10 Corps, never once faltered in their determination.  When