ot shaken by the confusion and destruction of battle. But when kept too long in the fight they not only become subject to physical and mental weariness; the most venturesome and aggressive among them—the natural leaders—begin to suffer an abnormally high percentage of losses. Consequently the periodical relief of units from the front lines is mandatory to the preservation of efficiency.  In Italy and in northwest Europe we were frequently unable to do this and sometimes regiments and battalions had to remain in line for excessive periods. Some divisions bore far more than their  Page 537 of 669 78%  i re re a ee are not done, only failure can result.  In World War II, America and Great Britain, whose forces fought side by side in so many battles of the ground, sea, and air, understood and applied these truths. In the later stages of the war French forces likewise participated in this joint effort, as did detachments of numerous countries whose homelands had been previously overrun by the enemy.  Co-operation with the Soviet forces was, unhappily, not so close. But her forces were widely separated, geographically, from those of the Western Allies, and the flaw in over-all teamwork did not impair the march to victory. Even so, if that country could have been as closely knit into the team as were the others, victory would probably have been achieved earlier and the peace would have rested on amore secure foundation.  Although Allied unity, and the ways and means of attaining it, constituted the principal war lesson, we within the Army were primarily concerned with the lessons that affected purely military concepts and principles. If every engagement could be studied, while the memory of it was still fresh in the minds of those who fought it, and both its tactical achievements and errors were subject to direct scrutiny, we could add an immense store of factual knowledge to the science of warfare—the speedy attainment of military victory at minimum expense in lives.  For