t was grist to our planning mill. But even while we plotted the future and looked toward the day when great offensives could be mounted, the pressure of present demands for action never relaxed and the evidence of our weakness was always with us.  Through the twenty-four hours of each day a steady stream of reports on action taken, appeals for reinforcements and supply, requests for decisions, summaries of intelligence, poured into the Operations Division from every continent and from the islands of the Pacific still held by us and our Allies. Occasionally trivial in content, most often far-reaching in strategic import, sometimes inspiring and sometimes calamitous, the decoded messages that crossed my desk during those days were constant reminders that America was engaged in a global war, fighting a desperate delaying battle in some places where heroic men still held out, in others building the bases and extending the air and sea pathways for a counteroffensive, persistently striving to inch forward on a front that circled the earth.  Atypical day was April 7—and a tragic one, too, for the surrender of Bataan was becoming hourly more imminent.  The first message to come in that morning was from Fort Mills on Corregidor, announcing that the food situation on Bataan had become desperate. To heartbreaking messages of this sort we had seldom been able to respond with any more than the cold comfort of a promise to do our best. But this time—if Bataan could be held a little while longer—at least a trickle of relief would reach the troops. An answer was immediately sent to Lieutenant General Jonathan M. Wainwright that some supplies were on their way by submarine and should arrive within a few days; we asked that he report their arrival as well as information on his further plans and any change in the situation. A request was radioed to General MacArthur in Sydney for a summary of his plans to maintain supply in Manila Bay by submarine from Australia and the probable dates