Major General Troy H. Middleton.131  As the enemy saw the American First Army attack gather momentum to the southward and finally  break through the Avranches bottleneck, his reaction was swift and characteristic. Chained to  his general position by Hitler’s orders as well as by the paralyzing action of our air forces, he immediately moved westward all available armor and reserves from the Caen area to counterattack against  the narrow strip through which American forces were pouring deep into his rear. His attack, if success corridor of advance was still constricted the German obviously felt that the risks he was assuming were j  ‘ul, would cut in behind our breakout troops and place them in a serious position. Because our justified even though, in case of his own failure, the destruction he would suffer would be vastly  increased. His attacks, which were thrown in at the town of Mortain, just east of Avranches, began on August 7.1141  The air co-operation against the enemy attack was extraordinarily effective. The United States Nint  h Air Force and the RAF destroyed hundreds of enemy tanks and vehicles. The Royal Air Force  had a large number of Typhoons equipped with rocket-firing devices. These made low-flying attacks against the enemy armor and kept up a sustained assault against his forces that was of great help  to the defending infantry.l151  Bradley and I, aware that the German counterattack was under preparation, carefully surveyed the situation. We had sufficient strength in the immediate area so that if we chose merely to stand 48%  FALAISE e  e DOMFRONT  . AMBRIERES jroustres  @ MAYENNE  & RENNES  With a clean and decisive breakout achieved, Bradley’s immediate problem became that of inflicting on the enemy the greatest possible destruction. All else could wait upon his exploitation of this golden opportunity, in the certainty that with the enemy destroyed everything else could quickly be set right. His scheme was to throw every unit he could spare els