r future date might be agreed upon by our respective governments.  While this decisive advance was taking place in the center the Twenty-first Army Group on the north and the Sixth on the south were both carrying out the operations assigned to them.  In the north Montgomery’s Twenty-first Army Group advanced toward Bremen and Hamburg and pushed a column forward to the Elbe to protect the northern flank of Bradley’s advance. Montgomery’s eastward advance was carried out mainly by the British Second Army, while the Canadian Army thrust northward through Arnhem to clear northeast Holland and the coastal belt eastward toward the Elbe. The eastward advance of the British Second Army, with three corps in the front line, reached the Weser April 6 and the Elbe April 19. At Bremen the British Army encountered an enemy force determined to resist to the bitter end. The British 30 Corps reached the outskirts of the city April 20, but a week of bitter fighting was necessary before Bremen finally surrendered.|121  Likewise, the northward advance of the Canadian Army on Montgomery’s left initially encountered some desperate resistance. However, satisfactory advances were made all along the line and Arnhem was captured April 15. The fall of Arnhem was the signal for the enemv in that sector to withdraw into the Holland fortress behind flooded areas which posed a serious obstacle to an advance  Page 487 of 669 1%  eee eeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeE—E eee Nee eeeEeEEEe—_E—E—E—E—E—_—E—_EE——eE EEE rere ee ee eee ee eee eee ee = eee Oe —eeeeeeeeeeEeEeEeEEeEe—_Eee—Eeee—eEe—__eeeee ee OTT ee TE ee eee something of the great measures afoot in the Pacific to accomplish the smashing of the Japanese. We were of course ignorant of any special or specific arrangements that President Roosevelt had made affecting the later peace. But we were doubtful that there was any other individual in America as experienced as he in the business of dealing with the other Allied political leaders. None of us had known th