inning team and declared he was going to renew his arguments to the President.  While the Prime Minister had spoken of this matter a few days earlier at Malta, this was the first time I had heard any American discuss the Overlord command, except on the basis of rumor and speculation. Admiral King’s story agreed in such exact detail with what the Prime Minister had told me that I accepted it as almost official notice that I would soon be giving up field command to re- turn to Washington.  Incidentally, the Prime Minister, although he was disappointed that Brooke would not get the Overlord assignment, had spoken with considerable satisfaction over the prospect of Marshall’s appointment. He said, “It is the President’s decision; we British will be glad to accept either you or Marshall.” Then he added, “Marshall’s appointment will certainly insure that the American Govern- ment will put everything available into the enterprise.” He hastily added that “they always did,” but said that this development would tend to attract even greater intensity. With his usual concern for personal feelings, Mr. Churchill assured me that he was delighted with the results so far achieved in the Mediterranean, but felt I would understand the wisdom of transferring the Mediterranean to British command so long as an American was to have command of the major operation across the Channel.  On the morning following my talk with Admiral King, the President spoke briefly to me about the future Overlord command and I came to realize, finally, that it was a point of intense official and public interest back home. He did not give me a hint as to his final decision except to say that he dreaded the thought of losing Marshall from Washington. But he added, “You and I know the name of the Chief of Staff in the Civil War, but few Americans outside the professional services do.” He then added, as if thinking aloud, “But it is dangerous to monkey with a winning team.” I answered noth- ing except to state t