ision itself suffered badly; only some 2,400 succeeded in withdrawing across the river to safety.  It was now vital to avoid any further delay in the capture of Antwerp’s approaches. Montgomery’s forces were, at the moment, badly scattered. His front, in an irregular salient, reached to the lower Rhine. He had to concentrate a sizable force in the Scheldt Estuary and still provide investing troops at some of the small ports holding out along the coast. To insure him opportunity to concentrate  Page 375 of 669 55%  NORWICH e ee  ENGLAND  ESSEN e ® DUISBURG DUSSELDORF BELGIUM BRUSSELS  ) A) 0 Wf BASTOGNE  S Sen \ \ \ TUxeMBOURS TRIER Se t  COLMAR. e  HELMOND  ARNHEM anoNIJMEGEN | @ EINDHOVEN” peu Sie x SEPT. 17,1944 BELFORT 38R HEAVILY HELD BY GERMANS  When, in spite of heroic effort, the airborne forces and their supporting ground forces were stopped in their tracks, we had ample evidence that much bitter campaigning was still to come. The British 1st Airborne Division, in the van, fought one of the most gallant actions of the war, and its sturdiness materially assisted the two American divisions behind it, and the supporting ground forces of the Twenty-first Army Group, to take and hold important areas. But the division itself suffered badly; only some 2,400 succeeded in withdrawing across the river to safety.  It was now vital to avoid any further delay in the capture of Antwerp’s approaches. Montgomery’s forces were, at the moment, badly scattered. His front, in an irregular salient, reached to the lower Rhine. He had to concentrate a sizable force in the Scheldt Estuary and still provide investing troops at some of the small ports holding out along the coast. To insure him opportunity to concentrate  far the Scheldt anerationn we sent him twin American divisinns the 7th Armared eammanded hv Mainr General T.indsaw MeN Svlvester and the 1N4th eammanded hw Mainr General Terry Allen a vet-  Page 375 of 669 55%  AMIENS FRANCE  LUXEMBOURG _ .- > / @ ¢  Saw Al x  COLMAR