things, we were anxious to have him on our side because of the constant fear at the back of our minds of becoming engaged in a pro- longed and serious battle against Frenchmen, not only to our own sorrow and loss, but to the detriment of our campaign against the German.  General Giraud was adamant; he believed that the honor of himself and his country was involved and that he could not possibly accept any position in the venture lower than that of complete command. This, on the face of it, was impossible. The naming of an Allied commander in chief is an involved process, requiring the co-ordinated agreement of military and political leaders of the responsible governments. No subordinate commander in the expedition could legally have accepted an order from General Giraud. Moreover, at that moment there was not a single Frenchman in the Allied command; on the contrary, the enemy, if any, was French.  All this was laboriously explained to the general. He was shaken, disappointed, and after many hours of conference felt it necessary to decline to have any part in the scheme. He said, “General Giraud cannot accept a subordinate position in this command; his countrymen would not understand and his honor as a soldier would be tarnished.” It was pitiful, because he had left his whole fam- ily in France as potential hostages to German fury and had himself undergone great personal risks in order to join up with us.  My political advisers at that time were Mr. H. Freeman Matthews of the American State Department and Mr. William H. B. Mack of the British Foreign Office.[7l So concerned were they over this development that thev suggested placing General Giraud in nominal command. while reserving to mvself the actual power of directing overations. Thev felt that the difference between public associ-  Page 115 of 669 17%  AAC TIO UIE GUILE tile Wal G1C 1 CAPETICIICE a ELEAter Sese Of Leuer Cllal) Willer, UPON Ue LOMOW IIE MOTs, 1 LECeiVeC a Inleaser LEpore LO Tile e1lect Ullal DEa