ate December my own personal staff, starting from a total of two individuals eight months before, had achieved the composition that it was substantially to maintain throughout te remainder of the war. Commander Harry Butcher of the Navy and Captain Ernest Lee were personal aides. Nana Rae, Margaret Chick, and Sue Sarafian were personal and office secretaries. Kay Summersby was corresponding secretary and doubled as a driver. Sergeants Leonard Dry and Pearlie Hargreaves were chauffeurs. Sergeants Popp, Moaney, Hunt, Novak, and Williams, with Sergeant Farr as a later re- placement, ran the house, field camp, and mess. Colonel James Gault of the Scots Guard shortly joined me and thereafter remained with me throughout the war as British Military Assistant.  Sergeant Michael McKeogh was my orderly, who accompanied me always and was close by my side, day and night. One day in Africa I had to make a hurried trip to the front and I telephoned to Sergeant McKeogh to bring a bag to the airfield. Flying conditions were deplorable and, in the total absence of flying aids in the mountainous country of Tunisia, the prospect of the flight was not enjoyable. When I got to the plane I found Sergeant McKeogh also prepared to make the journey. I said, “Mickey, I intend to return tomorrow, and I doubt that I will need you before then. Flying condi- tions are not comfortable and there is no use in both of us being miserable. You may go on back to quarters.”  The sergeant seemed to pale a bit but he looked me squarely in the eye and said, “Sir, my mother wrote me that my job in this war was to take care of you. And she said also, ‘If General Eisenhower doesn’t come back from this war, don’t you dare to come back.’”  The impact of such loyalty and devotion, not only on the part of the sergeant but on the part of the mother who could say such a thing to her son, left me almost speechless. All I did say was, “Well, hop into the plane. We’re late.”  Many months after the war was over I heard