bilities.  The United States Army had already taken over, for headquarters purposes, a large apartment building in the heart of London. I disliked the idea of establishing an operating headquarters in a great city but for the moment there seemed no alternative. Housing was a problem and the largest number of available hotel and other quarters was near Grosvenor Square, the site of our building. The great portion of our early activity would involve constant conferences with civil and military officers in the British Government and transport was so lacking that proximity to our principal points of contact was a necessity. Add to this the fact that we simply could not find accommodations outside the city big enough to house the staff and were not yet in position to build hut camps, and it is easy to see why I accepted defeat in my first organizational idea and settled down in London, temporarily.  General headquarters for American naval interests in Europe was commanded by Admiral Stark, previously Chief of Naval Operations.|11] His office was independent of mine, but immediately upon my arrival he came to me and said, “The only real reason for the existence of my office is to assist the United States fighting forces in Europe. You may call on me at any hour, day or night, for anything you wish. And when you do, call me ‘Betty,’ a nickname I’ve always had in the service.”  United States naval forces allocated to me for the proposed operation were commanded by Rear Admiral Andrew C. Bennett, who reported as my immediate subordinate soon after my own arrival in London. The naval contingent was expected to be little more than a training organization for many months. This was, however, a most important feature of our plans: amphibious training on a large scale would have to precede any invasion of the Continent.  My first job was to collect and organize a working team. General Marshall approved my request for Brigadier General Walter B. Smith as my chief of staff. He was a