k was developing against the center of the Twelfth Army Group to agree to begin shifting some strength from both flanks toward the Ardennes sector. This was a preliminary move—rather a precaution—made in order to support the seventy-five-mile length of the VIII Corps front, providing our calculations as to German intentions should prove correct.  We called a number of the SHAEF staff into our conference room; among them were Air Chief Marshal Tedder, and Generals Smith, Bull, and Strong. The operational maps before us showed that on each flank of the Ardennes the bulk of a United States armored division was out of the front lines and could be moved quickly. On the north was the 7th Armored Division commanded by Major Gen- eral Robert W. Hasbrouck. In Patton’s army on the south was the 10th Armored Division under Major General William H. Morris, Jr.  We agreed that these two divisions should immediately begin to close in toward the threatened area, the exact destination of each to be determined later by Bradley. This meant postponement of preparations for the attack in the Saar and we knew that General Patton would protest. His heart was set on the new offensive, which he thought would gain great results. But to Bradley and me there now appeared to be developing the very situation that we had felt justified in challenging because of the location of our concentrations on the flank of the weak Ardennes front. We had always felt the risk to be justified by the conviction that in emergency we could react swiftly. The critical moment, in our judgment, was now upon us. In addition to directing these preliminary moves Bradley alerted  all army enmmanders in his gratin ta he ready ta nravide additional 1nits for the hattle that he eynected ta develan  Page 409 of 669 59%  DINANT MARCHE  @ .ARocHE YY  ) ROCHEFORT ® HOUFFALIZE, ; eo.  e ST. HUBERT  e BASTOGNE  e if LIBRAMONT (WILTZ  THE ARDENNES DEC. 16,1944 HODGES’ FIRST ARMY FRONT  Bradley and I were sufficiently convinced t