acific, where there were on that date 115,877, exclusive of 29,566 in Alaska and the Aleutians. In the Caribbean the garrisons by then numbered 79,095. In the European theater there were as yet only 3,785 officers and men, but two divisions were en route. The overseas garrisons of the Eastern Defense Command numbered 15,876, most of whom were in Iceland.|10l  Although at that time American forces were fighting only in the Philippines, there was literally almost no spot throughout the length and breadth of the continents and the oceans that did not present at least one problem for the planning staff of the War Department. In Alaska we were wide open to attack and there existed the definite possibility that the enemy might succeed in establishing himself in an Alaskan airfield, from which he could bomb, with one-way attacks, numbers of our important cities. The coast of Brazil was needed so that we could secure on the shoulder of the South American continent a base from which to combat submarines. That area had an added importance because it provided also a stepping-stone for airplane flights across the Atlantic. With the Mediter- ranean closed, the shortest route to the Middle East theater of war was over central Africa; we had to establish an air route across that undeveloped continent.  Russia, of course, was now an Ally; and another problem was to determine the ways and means through which effective help could be given her so that she could successfully maintain herself against the common enemy. The Middle East, with its vast oil resources, was still another region whose safety was important to America. It provided one of the avenues by which supplies might be sent to Russia and we had the problem of early establishment of communications northward from the Persian Gulf into Russian territory. Dozens of islands in the Pacific had to be garrisoned if we were to maintain the security of communications to our Australian base. Burma was another area in which we had a g