taff. Shortly after the conference began I was invited to present my general views concerning the nature of the projected operation. Speaking as an American planner assigned to the War Department in Washington, and with no idea that I would later be assigned to Britain, I said in substance, “The first thing to do is to name a commander for the operation. That man must be given every bit of power that both governments can make available to him. He must be directed to vlan for an invasion of Eurove on the basis that it will certainlv be successful. at least to the extent of establishing on the Continent a solid front capable  129  Page 76 of 669 2%  "\ BELGIUM wy,  ~  AUG-DEC. 1942  GHD erimany tarcet  WY, SECONDARY TARGET  50 MILES J 650 750 EE EEE  ——— ————————————————F— — ———E——— DEC. 1942-JULY 1943 ——_3f4———- JULY 1943 - FEB. 1944 7 ‘+—— FEB. 1944 _ — JUNE 1944 —9f¢—- JUNE 1944 = MAY 1945 > eee  It is difficult now to recapture the sober, even fearful, atmosphere of those days: the state of the public mind which was reflected in the thinking of so many people in and out of the sk¥vice. Except for the early June defeat of the Japanese fleet at Midway, Allied fortunes were at low ebb. Prospects were bright only in their long-range aspect, and were contingent on Russia’s maintaining herself in the war with the material help that could be given her while the United States developed her latent power. Moreover, it was essential that Great Britain hang on grimly in India and the Western Desert in order to keep our two principal enemies divided and to deny them the Middle East oil. In the summer of 1942 it took a very considerable faith, not to say optimism, to look forward to the day when the potentialities of the United States would be fully developed and the power of the three great Allies could be applied simultaneously and decisively against the European Axis. This attitude of faith was demanded at all superior headquarters. Any expression of defeatism or any fail- u