ns in the use of this weapon. Fortunately the wind was offshore and the escaping gas caused no casud¢ties. Had the wind been in the opposite direction, however, great disaster could well have resulted. It would have been indeed difficult to explain, even though we manufactured and carried this material only for re- prisal purposes in case of surprise action on the part of the enemy.!8!  An outcome of the unfortunate affair was the establishment of a very much better informational and control machinery for anti-aircraft defense among the naval, ground, and air forces. It was the last serious blow that forces under my command suffered from the enemy air forces in the Mediterranean.  ITALIAN CAMPAIGN SEPTEMBER TO DECEMBER 1943 €—_] AMERICAN BRITISH  75 190  Page 242 of 669 36%  Divisions. However, the 1st Armored Division had not yet completed movement to Italy and the 82d Airborne and the 7th Armored Divisions were to be withdrawn soon for transfer to England. In  Montgomery’s Eighth Army there were six divisions, the 5th, 78th, 1st Canadian, 8th Indian, 2d New Zealand, and 1st Airborne Divisions.!6!  In the fall we made arrangements for the transfer of General Juin’s French corps from North Africa to the Italian battlefield. To provide more strength for a campaign that I felt would be of great  assistance to the later operation in northwest Europe, I suggested to Washington that the American contingent be reinforced by two or three new divisions, as soon as this should prove feasible.!7/  On December 2, 1943, a most regrettable and disturbing incident took place at the port of Bari. We were using that port to assist in the support of the Eighth Army and the large air forces we were  rapidly building up in Italy. It was constantly crowded with ships and the port itself was located uncomfortably close to some of the enemy air bases just across the narrow Adriatic.  One night the port was subjected to a raid and we suffered the greatest single loss from air action infli