hting heart. Even his most severe critics must find it difficult to discount the smashing victory he finally attained in Tunisia.  From the inception of the invasion project, our governments carefully considered the possibility of including General de Gaulle, then in London, in Torch planning. Units under his command had taken part in the ill-fated Dakar expedition, where the attacking forces had to retire in confusion in the face of local French resistance. The British always believed that this fiasco resulted from leaks in De Gaulle’s London headquarters. Our instructions from the two governments, possibly colored by this unfortunate early experience, were to the effect that under no circumstances was any informa- tion concerning the proposed expedition to be communicated to General de Gaulle.[141  There was confirmation of the assumption that General de Gaulle’s presence in the initial assaulting forces would incite determined opposition on the part of the French garrisons. During the course of our planning in London a constant stream of information came to us from consuls and other officials whom our State Department maintained in Africa throughout the war. All of this information was to the effect that in the regular officer corps of the French Army De Gaulle was, at that time, considered a disloyal soldier. His standing with the resistance elements of the civil population was vastly different. But at that moment resistance elements, particularly in Africa, were inarticulate and ineffective—and we had to win over the armed services as a first objective.  It is possible to understand why De Gaulle was disliked within the ranks of the French Army. At the time of France’s surrender in 1940 the officers who remained in the Army had accepted the position and orders of their government and had given up the fight. From their viewpoint, if the course chosen by De Gaulle was correct, then every French officer who obeyed the orders of his government was a poltroon. If De