h Army Group, were under command of General Bradley. On the left was the British Twenty-first Army Group under General Montgomery. His group comprised the British Second Army under General Dempsey and the Canadian First Army under Lieutenant General Henry D. G. Crerar. The British air force supporting General Montgomery’s army group was commanded by Air Marshal Coningham. General Bradley’s army group was supported by the U.S. Ninth Air Force commanded by Major General Hoyt S. Vandenberg. Subordinate to General Vandenberg were Major General Otto R. Weyland, in charge of the Tactical Air Command supporting General Patton’s Third Army, and General Quesada, who commanded the air units supporting Hodges’ army.  In each of these armies and army groups the normal mission of the associated air forces was to carry out attacks requested by the respective ground commanders. However, all tactical air units were subordinate to Leigh-Mallory and consequently all, both American and British, could in emergency be employed as a mass against any target designated by SHAEF. A typical example of unified action was the work of the British air forces in helping to defeat the German attack against Mortain in Bradley’s sector. Owing to this flexibility in command, the Tactical Air Forces were also available, when needed, to support the big bombers, even when the bombers were proceeding to penetrations deep within Germany.  By the end of August the approximate strength of the Allied forces on the Continent was twenty American divisions, twelve British divisions, three Canadian divisions, one French, and one Polish division. There were no more British divisions available, but in the United Kingdom were an additional six American divisions, including three airborne. The operational strength of all available air forces was approximately 4,035 heavy bombers, 1,720 light, medium, and torpedo bombers, and 5,000 fighters. Added to all this was the Troop Transport Command, which, counting both Amer