n.!131I reiterated, also, that defenses in the southern sector should be perfected. I told the conference that what I had learned at Casablanca concerning the speed of Alexander’s westward advance across the desert merely emphasized the need for us to protect ourselves effectively in the area of eventual junction of the two forces. Small raids and minor tactical action were to be encouraged, but no moves were to be made that could throw us off balance.  In one of my later trips to the front, on February 1, I again met Anderson and repeated my instructions that, in the southern sector, there must be a strong, mobile reserve.[141 However, the inability of the poorly equipped French forces to withstand repeated, though light, attacks in the mountains between the British and American forces continued to defeat Anderson’s efforts to comply with these orders. He was constantly forced to plug gaps in the central sector by drawing on British and American strength.  In early February we received information that the enemy was preparing for a more ambitious counterattack against our lines than any he had yet attempted. To provide additional strength for this counterattack, some of Rommel’s forces were hurried back from Tripoli to join Von Arnim and Messe in Tunisia. Our early information was that the attack was to be expected through the pass at Fondouk. Watchfulness was of course indicated everywhere and it became more than ever important that our mobile reserves, particularly our armored elements, be kept well concentrated in order to meet the coming attack, no matter through which of the several available passes it might be launched.  The most dangerous area was that held by the American II Corps, stretching throughout a long line from Gafsa on the south to approximately Fondouk on the left. As quickly as possible after conferences in Algiers with various individuals who had previously attended the Casablanca meeting, I departed for that part of the front to spend a week s