ion at the conference he had replied, “May 30.”  I found that the President, in his consideration of current African problems, did not always distinguish clearly between the military occupation of enemy territory and the situation in which we found ourselves in North Africa./4! He constantlv referred to plans and pvrovosals affecting the local ponulation. the French Armv. and governmental officials in terms of orders. instructions. and com-  Page 159 of 669 24%  ee eS Be ee ee ee eee eee eS ee ee ee Se ee ee ee eens Vee Sa SS ee ee Se eS eee See ee Se ee en eee of fanatics who might be expected to undertake any kind of extreme action.1| Preparations for the meeting involved anxious care and a very considerable amount of work, not the least of which was spent to preserve secrecy.  The conference convened on schedule. During the course of its deliberations a number of British and American officers of all services were called before it in the role of professional witnesses. I spent a complete day at the conference, after a journey that suddenly and unexpectedly became somewhat hazardous owing to the loss of two engines. Under orders of the pilot, Captain Jock Reedy, we flew the last fifty miles of the journey with all the passengers standing by the nearest exits, equipped in parachutes and ready to jump on an instant’s notice. With an anxious thought for an old football knee, I was delighted that I did not have to adopt this method of disembarkation.  That was my only day at the conference. I was already far too busy elsewhere to stay for a single moment longer than my presence was required. I learned of most of the happenings and decisions when General Marshall later came to visit me at Algiers.!21 However, at the one staff session I did attend the military situation in North Africa was thoroughly discussed.  I described the conditions that had compelled us to suspend our offensive in the north and outlined our current effort to establish the II Corps in the Tebessa r