st were achieved. But, assuming that the heads of states would be reasonably successful, a great responsibility still devolved upon us in Berlin. We were in daily and hourly contact with problems on which unanimous agreements had to be reached—and we felt that a record of local achievement would have a happy and definite effect upon the whole question of whether Communism and democracy would find a way to get along together in the same world. Consequently, in per- sonal as well as in official relationships, we spared no pains or trouble to demonstrate good faith, respect, and friendly intent.  At the time, however, the difficult problem of displaced persons pressed more immediately on my attention than my personal relations with the Russians. A displaced person was defined as a civilian outside the national boundaries of his or her country by reason of war, who was desirous but unable to return home or find a home without assistance, or who was to be returned to enemy or ex-enemy territory.|18]  Hundreds of thousands were quickly evacuated. These were in addition to prisoners of war and were those civilians who had homes somewhere in Europe and desired to return to them at once. We organized camps to take care of these classes temporarily and fed them while we worked out transportation plans.1191  But those that we soon came to designate particularly as Displaced Persons, DPs for short, did not include these easily dispersible thousands. The truly unfortunate were those who, for one reason or another, no longer had homes or were “persecutees” who dared not return home for fear of further persecution. The terror felt by this last group was impressed on us by a number of suicides among individuals who preferred to die rather than return to their native lands. In some instances these may have been traitors who rightly feared the punishment they knew to be in store for them. But in many other cases they belonged to the oppressed classes and saw death as a far less terri