of all French military forces in northwest Africa.  An important point was that we could not afford a military occupation, unless we chose to halt all action against the Axis. The Arab population was then sympathetic to the Vichy French regime, which had effectively eliminated Jewish rights in the region, and an Arab uprising against us, which the Germans were definitely trying to foment, would have been disastrous. It was our intention to win North Africa only for use as a base from which to carry on the war against Hitler. Legally our position in Africa differed from our subsequent status in Sicily, just as the latter differed from our  Page 125 of 669 19%  ee eee eee ee eee eee ee ee aE eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee eeeeeeEeeeeEeEeEEeEeeeeEeE—eEEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEE———eEE——E—E———_———— EEE Murphy, the American consul general in the area.|20l This was the first time I had seen Murphy since his visit to London some weeks before.  They first gave me a full account of events to date. On November 10, Darlan had sent orders to all French commanders to cease fighting.[21) Pétain, in Vichy, immediately disavowed the act and declared Darlan dismissed. Darlan then tried to rescind the order, but this Clark would not allow. Next the news was received in Algiers that the Germans were invading southern France, and now Darlan said that because the Germans had violated the 1940 armistice he was ready to co-operate freely with the Americans. In the meantime General Giraud, at first shocked to discover that the local French would not follow him, had become convinced that Darlan was the only French official in the region who could lead North Africa to the side of the Allies. When the Germans entered southern France Giraud went to Darlan to offer co-operation. The fighting at Casablanca had ceased because of Darlan’s order; at other places the fighting was over before the order was received. The French offi- cers who had openly assisted us, including Generals Bethouart and Ma