ion finally was aroused and the French conspirators were forced to escape very hurriedly, while General Clark and his group had to hide until they could re-embark in their submarine. Rough weather made the re-embarkation a difficult affair but, except for a ducking and the loss of asmall amount of money, no great damage was done.!22] This expedition was valuable in gathering more details of information. These did not compel any material change in our planned operations.  Page 100 of 669 18%  Mr. Murphy, who nad long been stationed in Africa, was early taken into the confidence of the President of the United otates and informed of the possibuity of military action in that region. With his staff of assistants he not only conducted a continuing survey of public opinion, but he did his best to discover among the military and political leaders those individuals who were definitely hostile to the Axis and occupying their posts merely out of a sense of duty to France. Affable, friendly, exceedingly shrewd, and speaking French capably, he was admirably suited for his task. Unquestionably his missionary work between 1940 and late 1942 had much to do with eventual success.  His trip to my headquarters in London, in the fall of 1942, was conducted in the greatest secrecy. In Washington, where he went first, he was placed in uniform, given a fictional commission as lieutenant colonel, and came to see me under the name of McGowan.|19|I met him at a rendezvous outside the city and within a matter of twenty-four hours he was again on the way to Washington.  From Mr. Murphy we learned the names of those officers who had pro-Allied sympathies and those who were ready to aid us actively. We learned much about the temper of the Army itself and about feeling among the civil population. He told us very accurately that our greatest resistance would be met in French Morocco, where General August Paul Nogués was Foreign Minister to the Sultan.|20] He gave us a number of details of French m