you will not be disappointed.”  During the remainder of the afternoon we made arrangements to conduct the President to Malta and to Sicily. At the former place he wanted to award to Lord Gort and the island’s garrison a Presidential Citation for the gallant defense of 1941 and 1942, while at the latter he wanted to inspect an American airfield and personally confer a decoration on General Clark.!11] Both these desires he accomplished but, owing to a delay at Malta because of mechanical difficulty with his plane, he could not continue on his homeward trip that day, as had been planned. The Secret Service men were irritated and fearful, but the President confided to me that he had made up his mind to stay at Carthage an extra night and if a legitimate reason for the delay had not been forthcoming he would have invented one. I remarked that I assumed the President of the United States would not be questioned in dictating the details of his own travel. He replied with considerable emphasis, “You haven’t had to argue with the Secret Service!”  During his visit the President on several occasions discussed matters in connection with my imminent transfer to London. He said that, with the full concurrence of General Marshall, he had designated me to command Overlord because he felt that the time element permitted no further delay in naming a commander. He said also that he had originally planned to give that command to General Marshall, observing that senior officers might well rotate in sharing the burdens and honors of staff and command duty. However, after consideration he had decided that Marshall could not be spared from Washington and particularly from his post on the Combined Chiefs of Staff. The President said that it was Marshall's commanding presence on the Combined Staff that always inspired his own great feeling of confidence in the decisions of that body. He added that though the British would gladly accept Marshall as the Overlord commander the fact was that al