ces, and finally build up a strength that could accomplish the complete destruction of the enemy.  In all the campaigns, and particularly in western Europe, our guiding principle was to avoid at any cost the freezing of battle lines that might bog down our troops in a pattern similar to the trench warfare of World War I. At times in the conduct of any continental campaign there develops a strain upon supply lines that largely prohibits the continuance of heavy, decisive attacks; during such periods a certain degree of stabilization is unavoidable. But the Allied forces did not permit these periods of stabilization to develop into the long, dreary, and wasteful battles that bled Europe white in World War I. The combination of fire power, mobility, and air power that we used to accomplish our purpose had to be scrutinized so that the principles underlying its effective use might be incorpor- ated into our military doctrine.  In addition to amphibious assault on an unprecedented scale, our forces had surmounted natural and fortified barriers that were believed invulnerable. In Africa, Sicily, and Italy the terrain we encountered was fitted by nature for defensive operations. In the Tunisian hills, on the shoulder of Mount Etna, and in the Apennines there were scores of vital points where a battalion could stop an army’s advance. In western Europe the Rhine throughout its length, reinforced on the north by the easily inundated Netherlands, had been for twenty centuries the most formidable barrier to military operations against the German lands. All those natural obstacles were overcome.  Beyond that in western Europe the Allied armies twice battered their way through fortifications that had been designed with the greatest tactical and engineering skill. To break through either the Westwall or the Siegfried Line was outstanding in military annals; to smash them both in the space of ten months was a matchless achievement for the participating troops.  It is easy to deprec