irclement.  As early as December 1941 we determined to try a system of blockade running into the Philippines. We sent officers to Australia with money to hire, at no matter what fantastic prices, the men and ships needed to carry supplies into the islands and to smuggle them into the beleaguered garrison.[131  The man we sent to Australia to head up this particular effort was a former Secretary of War, Colonel, soon Brigadier General, Patrick J. Hurley. He had reported to the Operations Division one noon to volunteer his services to the government. At that moment we were in search of a man of his known energy and fearlessness to invigorate our filibustering attempts out of Australia and his offer was immediately accepted.  Iasked him, “When can you be ready to report for duty?”  “Now.”  “Be back here at midnight,” I instructed him, “prepared for extended field service.”  Although he seemed to change color slightly, he never batted an eye but replied, “That will give me time to see my lawyers and change my will.”  Immediately he was recommended for the grade of brigadier general. Knowing that he would be confirmed as such before he could reach Australia, Gerow and I each donated a star from our  Page 24 of 669 4%  ee ee, ee Oe ee eee eeE—eEeEeEeEeEeeEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEEEeEE—E——EeEEee ae eee eS eee SS eee Eee eee ee ee aS eee  Russia, of course, was now an Ally; and another problem was to determine the ways and means through which effective help could be given her so that she could successfully maintain herself against the common enemy. The Middle East, with its vast oil resources, was still another region whose safety was important to America. It provided one of the avenues by which supplies might be sent to Russia and we had the problem of early establishment of communications northward from the Persian Gulf into Russian territory. Dozens of islands in the Pacific had to be garrisoned if we were to maintain the security of communications to our Australian base. Burma wa