s located uncomfortably close to some of the enemy air bases just across the narrow Adriatic.  One night the port was subjected to a raid and we suffered the greatest single loss from air action inflicted upon us during the entire period of Allied campaigning in the Mediterranean and in Europe. We lost sixteen vessels, some of them loaded with extremely valuable cargo. The greatest damage arose from the fact that a fuel ship was struck and the escaping oil carried fiery catastrophe to many of the neighboring vessels. One circumstance connected with the affair could have had the most unfortunate repercussions. One of the ships was loaded with a quantity of mustard gas, which we were always forced to carry with us because of uncertainty of German intentions in the use of this weapon. Fortunately the wind was offshore and the escaping gas caused no casualties. Had the wind been in the opposite direction, however, great disaster could well have resulted. It would have been indeed difficult to explain, even though we manufactured and carried this material only for re-  prisal purposes in case of surprise action on the part of the enemy.!81  An outcome of the unfortunate affair was the establishment of a very much better informational and control machinery for anti-aircraft defense among the naval, ground, and air forces. It was the last serious blow that forces under my command suffered from the enemy air forces in the Mediterranean. ITALIAN CAMPAIGN SEPTEMBER TO DECEMBER 1943 €_] AMERICAN EF BRITISH  MILES ° 50 100  \) ISERNIA ~  SS  %  e®. ~CASERTA  36%  ee eee ee eee eee eee eee ee eee ne ee ee eee ee eee eee ee es BO ee eee eee eee eee eee eee een ee eee een NN NN NR AAA NN LAN RA MAC ANA EO AO COMMER AD MALAD OLEAN PRM Awe  On December 2, 1943, a most regrettable and disturbing incident took place at the port of Bari. We were using that port to assist in the support of the Eighth Army and the large air forces we were rapidly building up in Italy. It was constantly c