ow I did want to see the museum in the Kremlin. Upon expression of this desire, a visit was immediately arranged and I was invited to bring with me such aides or assistants as I might wish. It is possible that my hosts had in mind only the little group who accompanied me from Berlin but when the time came for the visit I found that almost the entire American Embassy staff had volunteered to act as aides-de-camp that day. None of them had ever been permitted to visit the Kremlin and so I laughingly agreed to class them all}s temporary aides. The entire party of some fifty or sixty people spent the afternoon viewing accumulated treasures of the czars.|5] Jewelry, gorgeously incrusted costumes, flags, and decorations of every descrip- tion filled the great halls and constituted a magnificent display.  While walking through the Kremlin grounds we passed the largest-caliber gun I have ever seen; the inside diameter of the barrel appeared to be over thirty inches. It was an eighteenth-century relic. As we walked away from it my son musingly remarked, “I suppose that was the weapon which, two hundred years ago, made future wars too horrible to contemplate.”  On the night before we left Moscow the American ambassador gave a reception for the visiting party. It was a stag affair and Russian guests were mainly individuals from the Foreign Office and the armed services. There were the usual toasts, followed by a supper, in the midst of which the ambassador received an urgent call to come to the Foreign Office at once. Suspecting that he might obtain news of a Japanese surrender, momentarily expected, Mr. Harriman asked me to do my best to hold all the guests until he returned. This proved to be quite a task because the ambassador was kept at the Foreign Office much longer than he had anticipated. However, by enlisting help from a number of American friends who devised new toasts, some of them even set to the tunes of the orchestra, we managed to entertain the guests and keep t