ern I had personally prescribed. We remained on the offensive and weakened ourselves where necessary to maintain thbSe offensives. This plan gave the German opportunity to launch his attack against a weak portion of our lines. If giving him that chance is to be condemned by historians, their condemnation should be directed at me alone.  Chapter 18  HITLER'S LAST BID ———————SSSSSS >  ON DECEMBER 16, 1944, GENERAL BRADLEY came to my headquarters to discuss ways and means of overcoming our acute shortages in infantry replacements. Just as he entered my office a staff officer came in to report slight penetrations of our lines in the front of General Middleton’s VIII Corps and the right of General Gerow’s V Corps in the Ardennes region. The staff officer located the points on my battle map, and Bradley and I discussed the probable meaning.|1]  I was immediately convinced that this was no local attack; it was not logical for the enemy to attempt merely a minor offensive in the Ardennes, unless of course it should be a feint to attract our attention while he launched a major effort elsewhere. This possibility we ruled out. On other portions of the front either we were so strong that the Germans could not hope to attack successfully, or there was a lack of maior obiectives that he could reasonablv hove to attain. Moreover. we knew that for a number of davs German troop strength in the Ardennes area had been egraduallv increasing. It  Page 407 of 669 59%  ee ee  es sae  ion et Mee eel iain — Ardennes, where we knew that ‘the enemy was increasing his infantry formations. Previously he had, like ourselves, been using that portion of the front in which to rest tired divisions.[251  This type of report, however, is always coming from one portion or another of a front. The commander who took counsel only of all the gloomy Intelligence estimates would never win a battle; he would forever be sitting, fearfully waiting for the predicted catastrophes. In this case I later learned tha