n the city of Luxembourg, whence he kept in almost hourly contact with me by telephone during the next few critical days.  Bradley’s first task was to bring up reinforcements to help in the withdrawal of the VIII Corps. In the meantime both Bradley’s headquarters and my own would begin to gather up and assemble reserves for whatever action might be indicated as more exact information became available to us.  Middleton’s divisions, employed along the front of the VIII Corps from north to south, were the 106th Division under Major General Alan W. Jones, the 28th Division under Major General Norman D. Cota, and the 4th Division under Major General Raymond O. Barton. The 9th Armored Division, under Major General John W. Leonard, was also part of Middleton’s corps.!7Z1  The morning of December 17 it became clear that the German attack was in great strength. Two gaps were torn through our line, one on the front of the 106th Division, the other on the front of  tha 20th Danancta carnen nanfiucina and nuant infaematian ure mancas hat it ume lanes that tha anne ume amnlacinea aancidarahla avmas and ame nenevnnsinea vanidler ta tha urne teravd All Tatalliannan  Page 411 of 669 60%  all army commanders in his group to be ready to provide additional units for the battle that he expected to develop.!2!  With the staff we carefully went over the list of reserves then available to us. Among those most readily accessible was the XVIII Airborne Corps under General Ridgway, located near Reims. It included the 82d and the 101st Airborne Divisions, both battle-tested formations of the highest caliber. They had shortly before been heavily engaged in the fighting in Holland, and were not yet fully rehabilitated. Moreover, they were relatively weak in heavy supporting weapons, but these Bradley felt he could supply from the unthreatened portion of his long line.!3!  The U.S. 11th Armored Division had recently arrived and the 17th Airborne Division was in the United Kingdom ready to come t