as taken some action that produces an unfortunate result.  One problem that gave the War Department continuing concern was that of securing practical battlefield experience for portions of the Army before the whole of it should finally be thrown into a life-and-death struggle. In Asia and Africa our Allies were conducting active operations and it appeared logical to take advantage of these circumstances to obtain experience on a wider scale than could be accomplished through the mere assignment of American military observers to various areas.  One morning we received a suggestion that appeared so completely sensible that the entire operations staff started to work on it. The idea was to ship one of our armored divisions to reinforce the British Army in the Egyptian desert. Then when definite American need for this division arose, we would bring out only the personnel, leaving its equipment as replacement items for the British forces. [5] The proposition seemed all the more attractive because we were then engaged in producing an improved tank, and by the time we should be ready to use the division ourselves, we counted on hav- ing the new equipment ready for issue.  For commander of such a unit my mind turned instantly to one of my oldest friends, Major General George S. Patton, Jr., who was not only a tank expert but an outstanding leader of troops. I was astonished to find my choice flatly opposed by a considerable portion of the staff, but I was convinced that this was due entirely to Patton’s rather bizarre mannerisms and his sometimes unpredictable actions. He conformed to no pattern—a circumstance that made many fearful of his ability to fit into a team. Such doubts had no influence with me because of my confidence in his fighting heart and my conviction that he would provide effective leadership for combat troops. I felt that I knew him well because, at the end of the first World War, he and I had formed a fast friendship that could even include heated, someti