vement. We decided to proceed as planned, and I so radioed to General Marshall.[26] My feeling was that, even if the forces on the southern coast should find it necessary to delay land- ing, those on the east would surely get ashore and we would have less confusion and disadvantage than would result from any attempt to stop the whole armada.  But the evening wore on and the wind velocity increased alarmingly. There was nothing we could do but pray, desperately.  Page 204 of 669 30%  strip.  To perform this seeming miracle the engineers had employed almost every type of modern earth-moving machinery to be found on any large construction job in the United States, equipment that British engineers envied but had never dreamed could be brought into such a remote part of an active theater of war. This story was told to me over and over again by British officers on the island whose admiration for the American engineers was scarcely short of awe. This fighter strip gave us an additional base from which to sustain our attack against Sicily.  The ship convoys bringing the troops to their allotted places had to come from ports stretched throughout the length of the Mediterranean. The timing and final maneuvering of the various naval columns had to be exactly performed in the narrow, mine-filled waters separating Sicily from the mainland and had to be done so as to keep the enemy in a state of confusion and indecision until the last moment. Admiral Cunningham, Admiral Hewitt, and all their subordinates performed the task faultlessly.  Everything was proceeding with seeming perfection until the actual day of the assault. Then the weather, which in that part of the Mediterranean is normally serene in summer, began to deteriorate so badly as to threaten our ability to land. Since the wind direction was generally from the west it was the southern beaches for which we were anxious. The eastern beaches would have the shelter of the island itself.  I spent some hours with Admiral Cunn