atter of hours had from him a simple “Yes.”|27/ The trucks began arriving in Africa in less than three weeks after I made my initial request.  General Somervell was still at my headquarters when the message came from the War Department that the last of the trucks had been shipped. The telegram from Somervell’s assistant, Major General Wilhelm D. Styer, eloquently told the story of unending hours of intensive work to arrange this emergency shipment. In a plaintive final sentence it said, “If you should happen to want the Pentagon shipped over there, please try to give us about a week's notice.”/28]  The tremendous value of this shipment appeared in our increased ability to supply the needs of the battle front and even more in our ability to transfer troops rapidly from one portion of the front to another. The later move of the entire U.S. II Corps from the Tebessa region to northern Tunisia would have been completely impossible without the presence of these additional trucks. At the same  time our railuzav ancineers under the leadarchin af Rricadiar Ganaral Carl Graw ware working miraclac in imnravine the dacranit Franch line leading ta the frant When we want inta Narth Africa the  Page 175 of 669 26%  —— a  _ = =. = aan February 14 to 23 were 192 killed, 2,624 wounded, 2,459 prisoners and missing.!24!  The week of the hostile offensive was a wearing and anxious one. Whenever the initiative is lost to the enemy there is bound to be tension and worry, because it is always possible for anything to happen. No one escapes; in spite of confidence in the over-all situation and eventual outcome, there is always the possibility of local disasters.  The Kasserine battle marked the end of a phase of the campaign. With the defeat of the German attack it was obvious that his last chance of major offensive action was ended, but he did, within a short time, begin a series of savage local attacks against the British First Army in the north.|25] All through March this bitter battlin