ular problem and after showing him the projected site asked for an estimate on the time it would take to construct an operational strip. The answer was a nonchalant “Ten days.” This struck Park—who is a human dynamo himself—as so preposterous that he thought himself the victim of a joke. However, upon noting the thoughtful way in which the en- gineer was considering the problem, he asked: “When can you start?”  “As soon as my equipment can get here, which should take several days.”  The upshot was that messages began to fly through the air, and thirteen days from the time the first American construction unit stepped on the island the first fighter plane was taking off from the strip.  To perform this seeming miracle the engineers had employed almost every type of modern earth-moving machinery to be found on any large construction job in the United States, equipment that British engineers envied but had never dreamed could be brought into such a remote part of an active theater of war. This story was told to me over and over again by British officers on the island whose admiration for the American engineers was scarcely short of awe. This fighter strip gave us an additional base from which to sustain our attack against Sicily.  The ship convoys bringing the troops to their allotted places had to come from ports stretched throughout the length of the Mediterranean. The timing and final maneuvering of the various naval  rr re  Page 203 of 669 30%  SALMO, LAL LOI VEU LLU 11 A LIC ALES UL UPCLALIU Ilo, 10 UL ALLY SICAL VUCIICILL LU LLIE CLICLILY. 2 LIC OD LUI TUL LALILE CULILLUOLULLS ALE VASO MPU 1 LEIS ONCLEAMCOL UE ALLL ALIALIU EE ALI ALE UOUaLLy AliiUoliis, LALLICL Liicil terrifying, although they become dangerous as they edge closer to the truth and give statistical information to substantiate ideas. But in an active theater it is an entirely different matter, and because of an inborn hatred of unexplained censorship and, more than this, because of the confidence I h