of men and quotas of vehicles to the shortages that continually plagued us; striving always to keep pace in our area with the Army-wide pace.  In June 1941, I was assigned to Lieutenant General Walter Krueger’s Third Army as his chief of staff at San Antonio headquarters. There I was brought closer to the problems of the Army of the United States as a whole. The four tactical armies, into which the ground forces were divided, varied in numerical strength; but all were alike in their core of Regular units, around which had been assembled the Guard outfits, with vacancies in all units filled by Reserve officers and soldiers from Selective Service. Consequently the reports coming across my desk at Fort Sam Houston on the train- ing, morale, and capacity of our divisions and units in the field were accurate indications of our progress throughout the United States.  The situation contrasted favorably to that of a year earlier. The Army of the United States now totaled approximately 1,500,000 officers and men. However, grave deficiencies still existed. Vehicles, modern tanks, and anti-aircraft equipment were critically short. Supporting air formations were almost non-existent. Moreover, the approaching expiration of a year’s service for National Guard units and Selective Service soldiers was a constant worry, not to be relieved until two months later. In June we feared the exodus of men, beginning in September, would not be matched by a comparable inflow.  Page 7 of 669 2%  of staff of the 3d Division. That post was to be mine only four months, when again I was transferred, this time to be chief of staff of the IX Army Corps, which had shortly before been established at Fort Lewis. This assignment brought me my first emergency promotion; I became a temporary colonel in March 1941.  The corps commander was Major General Kenyon A. Joyce. On his staff I met an exceptionally keen group of men, three of whom I tried, with some success, to keep close to me throughout the ensuin