sources of rubber, oil, and the other riches of the Netherlands Indies was too black a picture to contemplate. The Middle East, of course, had to be held; if it should fall and the German U-boats were able to proceed through the Red Sea into the Indian Ocean, it was doubtful that India could be saved. Moreover, Middle East oil was a great prize.  In the late winter of 1941-42 the U-boat campaign in the Atlantic was at almost the height of its effectiveness. We were monthly losing ships, including valuable tankers, by the score. A typical month was March 1942, when we lost in the Atlantic and Arctic areas 88 Allied and neutral ships of 507,502 tonnage. During May 1942, when 120 Allied and neutral vessels were sunk in the same waters, the United States sustained its highest loss of merchant shipping in any one month of the war—40 vessels.!2 For a time even our vital sea lines to South America were in peril. Shipping was at a premium; simultaneously we needed every type of fighting vessel, cargo, and personnel ship.  Already we had learned the lesson that, while air power alone might not win a victory, no great victory is possible without air superiority. Consequently the need for airplanes in vast numbers competed with all other needs—shipping, cannon, tanks, rifles, ammunition, food, clothing, heavy construction material, and everything from beeswax to battleships that goes to make up a nation’s fighting power.  Page 30 of 669 5%  ihe conterencel+s! had two principal purposes, the first of wnicn was to organize a workable system Dy which the American and bBritisn Chiefs of otaif could operate effectively as a team. Ihe gist of the arrangement made was that each of the British Chiefs of Staff designate a representative to serve in Washington, in close contact with the American staffs. The British named Sir John Dill as the head of this mission and in that capacity he continued to render outstanding service until his death in 1944. A second purpose of the conference wa