eived a single extra engine or boxcar from the United States.  Another particularly pleasing development was the steadily growing strength and efficiency of our air forces, and the construction of suitable operating fields and bases.!29l Still another was the speed with which the British forces in the desert opened up and began using the port in Tripoli, only recently captured.[20! We now had definite assurance that the advance of the Eighth Army would not be stopped, as it had been so often stopped before, by lack of supplies.  A final advantage that accrued to us during this period was opportunity for establishing our whole system of command on a sound and permanent basis in accordance with the arrangements made at Casablanca. All air forces were integrated under Air Chief Marshal Tedder, with General Spaatz as his deputy; the ground command on the Tunisian front was placed under General Alexander.!31) The latter, freed from the necessity of commanding also a single army, the handicap under which General Anderson labored, was able to devote his entire attention to daily tactical co-ordination.  Just after the first of March, I replaced Fredendall with Patton as commander of the II Corps.!22! I had no intention of recommending Fredendall for reduction or of placing the blame for the initial defeats in the Kasserine battle on his shoulders, and so informed him. Several others, including myself, shared responsibility for our week of reverses. But morale in the II Corps was shaken and the troops had to be picked up quickly. For such a job Patton had no superior in the Army, whereas I believed that Fredendall was better suited for a training job in the States than he was for battle leader- ship. I recommended to General Marshall that Fredendall be given command of an army in the United States, where he became a lieutenant general.!33]  General Patton’s buoyant leadership and strict insistence upon discipline rapidly rejuvenated the II Corps and brought it up to fightin