tack to fall, and he held this force in army reserve by keeping in his own hands the authority to commit it to action. The remainder was scattered in small detachments to the southward throughout the II Corps front. As a result the 1st Armored Div- ision commander, Major General Orlando Ward, had nothing left under his own command except minor detachments of light tanks.  During the night I visited along the front between Maknassy and Faid Pass. Near the latter place I decorated an American officer for gallantry only two or three hours before the German attack fell upon the positions outside the pass at Sidi-Bou-Zid.  Brigadier General Paul McD. Robinett, an old friend of mine, was commanding an armored unit in the valley, near Fondouk. He was sure that there would be no attack at that point, and pointed out for me on the map the distance to which his reconnaissance patrols had penetrated. He said he had reported those facts several times to his superiors. I was convinced of the accuracy of his report and told him I would take the matter up the next day with the corps and army commanders.  I spent the remainder of an exhausting night conferring with commanders and noting the matters that I wanted to take up with General Fredendall. Our little inspecting party started back before dawn, but we were delayed at Sbeitla by an outbreak of sporadic firing ahead of us. After a reconnaissance in force, in which my aide, Captain Lee, and Lieutenant Colonel Akers composed the assault wave, while I with a .45 formed the mobile reserve, we remounted our cars and made our way through the town without incident. A short time later my driver fell asleep and we ended up ina shallow ditch, but with no casualties. Upon arrival at corps headquarters I found that the German attack had already struck.{181 It was too late to make changes in dispositions.  Although during the morning frequent and, as it later turned out, very accurate reports were submitted by the American troops to General