however, in spite of surprise and relatively large losses, our troops rallied in good fashion and fell back to cover the important center of Tebessa and the routes leading northward from Kasserine toward Le Kef.  Our forward airfields at Thelepte had to be temporarily abandoned but the air force pulled out with no loss of personnel or machines and with immaterial losses in fuel and other supplies. Just behind Tebessa was the field of Youks-les-Bains, and it was therefore doubly important for the II Corps to hold this center of communications. Farther to the north it had to resist a German penetration in the direction of Thala, toward Le Kef. The 34th Division was in position on the northern flank and, in spite of its long period of inactivity and dispersion, did good work in the defense. To help stop the enemy’s northward thrust, British artillery and tanks were rushed down from the north, where the enemy had somewhat thinned his lines in order to secure the strength for the Kasserine offensive. The artillery of the U.S. 9th Division also participated effectively in this action.!20l By the evening of the twenty-first it was apparent that the enemy had stretched himself to the limit and his supply was becoming difficult. More than this, his line of communications ran through the vulnerable Kasserine Gap and his troops to the west of that point were becoming precariously exposed to attack by any forces we could bring up.  The enemy’s advance, by the twenty-second, was completely stalled. George Patton, who always liked to bring up historical precedent, remarked, “Well, Von Arnim should have read about Lee’s attack at Fort Stedman.” There, outside Petersburg, the last desperate Confederate counterattack was stopped and driven back in bloody retreat by strong Union reserves.  — = ——  a ne OS et”  FONDOUK® §  ry] f &  EL DJEMe  Page 170 of 669 26%  EEE EEE EERE EEE EEE EEE EEE EES EOE i A ee EEE IEEE IEE IEEE EEE EE EEE EE a  in the direction of Thala, toward Le Kef. The