tions Division of the War Department General Staff was the answer to this need; it replaced the War Plans Division, where I had succeeded General Gerow as assistant chief of staff on February 16. On March 9, I became the first chief of OPD.[11 Almost simultaneously I was promoted to a temporary major generalcy.  As I remember it, I was far too busy then to take the time to thank General Marshall for advancement to the grade which, in our prewar Army, represented the virtual apex of a professional military career.  Within the War Department a shocking deficiency that impeded all constructive planning existed in the field of Intelligence. The fault was partly within and partly without the Army. The American public has always viewed with repugnance everything that smacks of the spy: during the years between the two World Wars no funds were provided with which to establish the basic requirement of an Intelligence system—a far-flung organization of fact finders.  Our one feeble gesture in this direction was the maintenance of military attachés in most foreign capitals, and since public funds were not available to meet the unusual expenses of this type of duty, only officers with independent means could normally be detailed to these posts. Usually they were estimable, socially acceptable gentlemen; few knew the essentials of Intelligence work. Results were almost completely negative and the situation was not helped by the custom of making long service as a military attaché, rather than ability, the essential qualification for appointment as head of the Intelligence Division in the War Department.  The stepchild position of G-2 in our General Staff system was emphasized in many ways. For example, the number of general officers within the War Department was so limited by peacetime law  that ana of tha nrincinal diviciane had tn ha haadad hia ealanal Almact urithaiut aveantian tha 2_9 Divician ant tha ealanal Thic in itcalf uraild nat narcaccarily hava hoon corinne cineca it