g hourly more imminent.  The first message to come in that morning was from Fort Mills on Corregidor, announcing that the food situation on Bataan had become desperate. To heartbreaking messages of this sort we had seldom been able to respond with any more than the cold comfort of a promise to do our best. But this time—if Bataan could be held a little while longer—at least a trickle of relief would reach the troops. An answer was immediately sent to Lieutenant General Jonathan M. Wainwright that some supplies were on their way by submarine and should arrive within a few days; we asked that he report their arrival as well as information on his further plans and any change in the situation. A request was radioed to General MacArthur in Sydney for a summary of his plans to maintain supply in Manila Bay by submarine from Australia and the probable dates that he could make delivery. Another radio went to Lieutenant General Joseph W. Stilwell in Burma, asking him to investigate the pos- sibility of flying food concentrates from his area to Bataan.  A second message from General Wainwright reported that heavy attacks were continuing on the Bataan front and the enemy was making progress against our center positions. The hospital there had again been bombed and this time, he added, intentionally—the Japanese had apologized for an earlier bombing.  In rapid sequence came messages notifying us that additional airports would be developed in Central and South America and in Liberia under the supervision of the Chief of Engineers; that the Coast Guard would assign four guards to each vessel during transit of the Soo Canal between Lakes Superior and Michigan, where we had long feared sabotage at the most critical transportation bottleneck in the United States; that Lieutenant General John L. De Witt requested authority to issue 3,000 rifles to the Alaskan Territorial Guard; that Lieutenant General Delos C. Emmons, having inspected the New Zealand defense measures in the Fiji Isla