l Antonov, on a personal basis, for further details, and I momentarily hesitated. However, he relieved the situation by giving me the remainder of the Generalissimo’s message, which was: “The Generalissimo says that if you would like to come he also invites two of your associates, if you would like to bring them.” I turned to consult quickly with the ambassador. He said that the invitation was precedent-making; to the best of his knowledge, no other foreigner had ever been invited to set foot on top of Lenin’s tomb. Realizing, therefore, that a special courtesy was intended, I quickly told General Antonov that I would be happy indeed to accept and that the associates I wanted were the ambassador and, the head of the United States Military Mission to Moscow, Major Gen- eral John R. Deane. My thought was that if there was any local prestige to be gained, then the people to whom it would be most useful were the ambassador and his assistant.!21  We stood for five hours on the tomb while the show went on. None of us had ever witnessed anything remotely similar. The groups of performers were dressed in the colorful costumes of their respective countries and at times thousands of individuals performed in unison. Every kind of folk dance, mass exercise, acrobatic feat, and athletic exhibition was executed with flawless precision and, apparently, with greatest enthusiasm. The band was said to number a thousand pieces, and it played continuously, presumably by sections, during the entire five-hour performance.  The Generalissimo showed no sign of fatigue. On the contrary, he appeared to enjoy every minute of the show. He invited me to his side and, through an interpreter, we conversed intermittently during the entire period of the show.|2!  He evinced great interest in the industrial, scientific, educational, and social achievements of America. He repeated several times that it was necessary for Russia to remain friends with the United States. Speaking through the interpreter