ing help from a number of American friends who devised new toasts, some of them even set to the tunes of the orchestra, we managed to entertain the guests and keep the bulk of them until Mr. Harriman returned.  He walked to the middle of the room and announced the Japanese surrender, which brought a joyous shout of approval from all the Americans present.!6! But I noted that old Marshal Budenny, who was standing at my side, did not seem to exhibit any great enthusiasm. I asked him whether he was not glad the war was over and he replied, “Oh yes, but we should have kept going until we had killed a lot more of those insolent Japanese.” The marshal seemed to be a most congenial, humane, and hospitable type but at the same time he seemed to have no concern that even one day’s continuance of war meant death or wounds for additional hundreds of Russian citizens.  During the war I had heard much of the magnificent defense of Leningrad in 1941 and 1942. I expressed a desire to visit that city briefly. In the siege of Leningrad 350,000 civilians, according to the Russian records, died of starvation. Many more were killed and wounded. These figures were constantly recited to our visiting party by civilian officials of Leningrad who joined the military commanders to act as our local hosts. The extraordinary suffering of the population and the length of time that the city endured the rigors and privations of the battle combined to make the operation one of the memorable sieges of history; certainly it is without parallel in modern times. All of us were struck by the fact that in speaking of Leningrad’s losses every citizen did so with a tone of pride and satisfaction in his voice. The pride, of course, was understandable in view of the heroic endurance that had defeated the enemy at that vital point; but it was more difficult to grasp the reasons for satisfaction, even though it was explained to us that the city, by paying such a tremendous price, had proved itself “worthy of M