seemed to be as controversial a figure in British life as Harry Hopkins was in ours, but he was always helpful to us and, equally important, he was decisive and energetic. He had another characteristic particularly noticeable among a people normally regarded as conservative and correct. Until I met him I had always regarded the American cow-puncher as the world’s greatest master of picturesque expression. The effect of Bracken’s language was always heightened by the rasping intensity of his voice.  Intensive programs were devised with Bracken’s splendid organization to fit the newly arrived Americans into the highly complex life of a thickly populated area in such a way as to minimize trouble. Of these programs, probably the most successful was education of both sides, coupled with intermingling in homes and public places. Through Brendan Bracken the British public was constantly informed as to what to expect. He explained the necessity for further accommodation and sacrifices among the whole population, and the need for tolerance. At the same time educational pamphlets and literature were distributed to American troops before their embarkation from the United States.141 These were written in the vernacular and contained specific suggestions to facilitate the adjustment of American soldiers to the new environment.  Wherever possible, newly arrived American personnel were taken on a short tour through Britain’s bombed areas. The American Red Cross and the several relief and welfare organizations of Great Britain helped institute a system of home entertainment of American Gls by British families.[15] I have never yet met an American soldier who, after spending a week end with a British family, did not feel that America had a staunch and sturdy Ally. We found, however, that a British family, inspired by a determination to show real hospitality, was likely to utilize an entire week’s rations to entertain an American over Sunday. At once we encouraged visiting soldiers t