greement. The British and American Chiefs of Staff had therefore to decide, in late July 1942, between the northwest African invasion and the seizing of a bridgehead in northwest France.  As far as I know, there was no argument based upon nationalistic lines. The conferees were merely searching for the most profitable line of combined action to be undertaken in 1942.  On July 24 it was determined to proceed with the planning for the invasion of northwest Africa with an Allied force of all arms, to be carried out under an American commander.|27! The operation received the name Torch. Its execution was approved by the President on July 25. Both governments agreed that the whole venture should have, initially at least, a completely American complexion. The hope was that French North Africa would receive the invading troops with no more than a nominal show of resistance, and the chances of this favorable development were considerfd to be much brighter if the operation was advertised as purely American. British standing in France was at a low ebb because of the Oran, Dakar, and Syrian incidents, in which British forces had come into open conflict with the French.  In his headquarters in the Claridge Hotel on July 26, General Marshall informed me that I was to be the Allied commander in chief of the expedition. He stated that while this decision was definite some little time would be necessary to accomplish all the routine of official designation. In August the appointment as commander in chief was made official in a directive from the Combined Chiefs of Staff.[28]  The decision to invade North Africa necessitated a complete reversal in our thinking and drastic revision in our planning and preparation. Where we had been counting on many months of orderly build-up, we now had only weeks. Instead of a massed attack across narrow waters, the proposed expedition would require movement across open ocean areas where enemy submarines would constitute a real menace. Our target wa