,1943  To insure rapidity of action all commanders, and troops, must recognize opportunities and be imbued with the burning determination to make the most of them. The higher comander must constantly plan, as each operation progresses, so to direct his formations that success finds his troops in proper position and condition to undertake successive steps without pause. Long periods of inaction for regrouping are justified only by sheer necessity. Veteran troops realize that by continuing the advance and attack against a shaken enemy the greatest possible gains are made at minimum cost. Speed requires training, fitness, confidence, morale, suitable transport, and skillful leadership. Patton employed these tactics relentlessly, and thus not only minimized casualties but shook the whole Italian Government so forcibly that Mussolini toppled from his position of power in late July.  As the Seventh Army approached the western slopes of the Mount Etna highlands fighting became more and more severe. The Battle of Troina, conducted largely by the 1st Division, was one of the most fiercely fought smaller actions of the war.|Zl The enemy launched twenty-four separate counterattacks during the battle. The ground was rocky and broken, with hidden areas difficult to clean out. Several days after the capture of the position our troops were astonished to find in one small valley a field of several hundred German dead, so far uncounted. They were victims of American artil- lery fire.  In the advance eastward from Palermo the left flank of the Seventh Army, following the coast line, made a series of small amphibious operations, the strength of the landings varying from one to two battalions.!8! A small naval task force under Rear Admiral Lyal A. Davidson and the troops advancing along the rocky coastal cliffs of Sicily achieved a remarkable degree of co-ordination and efficiency in carrying out these attacks. The only road was of the “shelf” variety, a mere niche in the cliffs interr