tes and his superiors alike that the American teamwork forged on the many battlefields of the Normandy beachhead was never thereafter seriously shaken. He was then commanding the First Army. Major General Elwoqd R. Quesada, a young and active air commander, was in charge of the tactical air groupments immediately supporting him. The mutual confidence they developed, the systems and methods they worked out for battlefield co-ordination, and the spirit they infused among all their subordinates, were in pleasing contrast to other cases that I had encountered early in the war. The Navy likewise fitted perfectly into the picture. The accomplishments in Europe of the three United States services operating under unified command strongly influenced my determined advocacy of a similar type of organization in postwar Washington.  During the early stages of the battle my own life was one of almost incessant travel. A visit to Montgomery, Bradley, or to troops on the front would be immediately followed by a period of activity in the Portsmouth headquarters, where the work of co-ordinating and adjusting shipments and major phases of planning was interspersed with countless interviews and conferences. Along with this there was of course a constant need to visit formations still in England and destined for early entry into battle.  One incident, pleasing to me personally and indicative of General Marshall's constant thoughtfulness for his subordinates, was the arrival of my son in the theater about the middle of June. He graduated from West Point on D-day and, with General Marshall’s approval, was given authority to spend his short graduation leave with me in the battle area, subject only to the proviso that he return to the United States in time to enter upon his advanced training by July 1. He traveled with me everywhere, and his sole disappointment was my refusal to interfere in the normal routine for a young graduate and assign him to one of the infantry divisions then in Euro