e type of production for war. Russian indus- try west of the Volga had been almost obliterated.  America had not been spared: by V-J Day in the Pacific, 322,188 of her youth had been lost in battle or had died in the service and approximately 700,000 more had been wounded.!1! The nation had poured forth resources in unstinted measure not only to support her own armies and navies and air forces but also to give her Allies equipment and weapons with which to operate effectively against the common enemy. Each of the Allies had, according to its means, contributed to the common cause but America had stood pre-eminent as the arsenal of democracy. We were the nation which, from the war’s beginning to its end, had achieved the greatest transformation from almost complete military weakness to astounding strength and effectiveness.  Europe had been at war for a full year before America became alarmed over its pitifully inadequate defenses. When the nation began, in 1939, first steps toward strengthening its military establish- ment it started fram a noasition as clase to zern as a great natinn could canceivahly have allawed itself ta sink  Page xii of 669 1%  ~ Lhe Kussilans are generous. | ney like to give presents and parties...the ordinary Kusslan seems to me to bear a Marked simuarity to wnat we call an average American. ~ East and West Celebrate at Torgau (Photograph by U.S. Army Signal Corps)  Chapter 1 PRELUDE TO WAR ee  IN THE ALLIED HEADQUARTERS AT reims, Field Marshal Jodl signed the instrument of German surrender on May 7, 1945. At midnight of the next day there ended, in Europe, a conflict Meat had been raging since September 1, 1939.  Between these two dates millions of Europeans had been killed. All Europe west of the Rhine had, with minor exceptions, lived for more than four years under the domination of an occupying army. Free institutions and free speech had disappeared. Economies were broken and industry prostrated. In Germany itself, after years of seeming