e.  There were many points of similarity between this situation and the one that developed some four months later in the Ardennes, which resulted in the Battle of the Bulge. In both cases our long- term calculations proved correct but in the one the German achieved temporary success, while at Mortain he was repulsed immediately and materially added to the severity of his own battle losses.  The enemy concentrated the bulk of his available armor at Mortain and continued his obstinate attack until August 12. By this time Bradley’s planned movements were developing satisfactorily.  On General Bradley’s directive, General Patton had sent the XV Corps, commanded by Major General Wade H. Haislip, straight southward to the town of Laval. East of Laval it turned north on Argentan. The XII Corps, under command of Major General Gilbert R. Cook, was ordered to advance on Orléans on the Third Army’s south flank; and the XX Corps, commanded by Major General Walton H. Walker, was directed on Chartres. Later, the XIX Corps, under Major General Charles H. Corlett, also participated in the envelopment. The Canadian First Army was directed by Montgomery to continue to thrust southward on Falaise with a view to linking up with the Americans at Argentan, to close the net around the enemy forces still west of that point. Meanwhile the U.S. First Army and the British Second Army would both drive toward the trapped Germans to accomplish their rapid destruction.  The enveloping movement from the south therefore had as its first objective the destruction or capture of the German forces in the Mortain-Falaise region, while at the same time there remained the opportunity for sweeping up remaining portions of the German First and Seventh Armies by directing an even wider employment toward the crossings of the Seine River. The operation assumed this over-all picture: Montgomery’s army group was attacking generally southward against the old Normandy beachhead defenses, while Bradley’s forces, wi