ill another great surprise in the Remagen area. As soon as American forces had begun to establish themselves firmly in the Remagen bridgehead Bradley and I had started to develop our plans for deriving the greatest usefulness from this development.  We had always planned, on Bradley’s front, to make our main crossings in the region where Patton had seized his bridgeheads, since this was the most suitable area from which to launch the southern prong of the great double offensive that was expected to surround the Ruhr. From Remagen we could of course turn the First Army to the north and northeast to assault the Ruhr directly. This would hawever involve frontal attack acrass the Sieg and wauld nat accamnilish the sreat and camnlete encirclement of that area which was an essential feature of our hasic nlan Cansenuently  Page 464 of 669 67%  stop our troops at the water’s edge with gunfire.  This kind of resistance, however, was not encountered. The two American divisions making the assault on the Ninth Army front, the 30th and the 79th, suffered a total of only thirty-one casualties during the actual crossing. The divisions were under the command of General Anderson of the XVI Corps.!3!  Throughout the remainder of the night we received a series of encouraging reports. Everywhere the landings appeared completely successful. We were encouraged to believe that we could very quickly achieve such an eastward advance that the communications leading into the Ruhr would be cut.  With the arrival of daylight I went to a convenient hill from which to witness the arrival of the airborne units, which were scheduled to begin their drop at ten o'clock. The airborne troops were carried to the assault in a total of 1,572 planes and 1,326 gliders; 889 fighter planes escorted them during the flight, and 2,153 other fighters provided cover over the target area and established a de- fensive screen to the eastward.!41  Fog and the smoke of the battlefield prevented a complete view of the a