icion that the British contemplated the agreed-upon cross-Channel concept with distaste and with considerable mental reservations concerning the practicability of ever conducting a major invasion of northwest Europe. So, though we could not plead for a do-nothing policy while all the impedimenta of major invasion were being produced and accumulated, we looked askance on any project that seemed to be an effort to lead us to indefinite commitment to a strategy in which we did not believe. I was well aware of sincere British misgivings—often voiced in a general way by Mr. Churchill, but definitely and specifically by General Paget—concerning the major cross-Channel venture, then known as Roundup. General Marshall heartily agreed that, no matter what decision should be reached by the London Conference then in progress, we must secure from the British unequivocal reaffirmation of the cross-Channel strategy.  Influenced by these considerations, I personally favored, at that time, the third course of action; that is, the attempt to seize a small bridgehead on the northwest coast of France. However, I told General Marshall that the project was a hazardous one and that my only real reason for favoring it was the fear of becoming so deeply involved elsewhere that the major cross-Channel attack would be indefinitely postponed, possibly even canceled. Almost certainly any 1942 operation in the Mediterranean would eliminate the possibility of a major cross-Channel venture in 1943.  Later developments have convinced me that those who held the Sledgehammer operation to be unwise at the moment were correct in their evaluation of the problem. Our limited-range fighter craft of 1942 could not have provided sufficiently effective air cover over the Cotentin or Brittany peninsulas, against the German air strength as it then existed. At least, the operation would have been very costly. Another reason is that out of the northwest African operation flowed benefits to the Allied nations th