ers in detail. Their logic will be convin- cing.”[111I was glad to agree because I well knew that with General Marshall backing me up there would be no danger of interference with our developing plans.  Field Marshal Brooke’s arguments in the matter were founded in conviction. There was no petty basis for his great concern. This was proved by the fact that only a few weeks later, when the destruction of the German armies west of the Rhine had been accomplished and he stood with me on the banks of the river to witness the crossing by the Ninth Army and the Twenty-firstArmy Group, he turned to me and said: “Thank God, Ike, you stuck by your plan. You were completely right and I am sorry if my fear of dispersed effort added to your burdens. The German is now licked. It is merely a question of when he chooses to quit. Thank God you stuck by your guns.”1121  The operational schedule for the first phase of our strategic plan—destruction of the enemy strength west of the Rhine—contemplated three major assaults. The first would be by the Twenty-first Army Group at the northern flank of our lines; the second, by Bradley’s group in the center; and the third, a converging attack by Bradley and Devers to eliminate the enemy garrison in the Saar Basin.  MUNSTER e  HOLLAND  py - (Gn  a  HAMM e é * DORTMUND  x a  - 4 SS / CRRA  e MARBURG  y eLIMBURG  FRANKFURT e Paitin  Page 440 of 669 64%  At that time, however, there was one miscalculation 1n our plans, Dased upon faulty technical information. ihe engineers had made many studies of the Khine Kiver, based upon statistics covering along period. They had reported to me that successful assaults could probably not be made over the Rhine until about the first of May. This opinion was so forcibly expressed that in my own mind I had accepted the necessary delay and was planning not to start our major assaults across the river until about that time. This did not, of course, affect any part of our plans that were to be executed before the