hting continued until the twelfth but by the following day, except for a few stragglers in the mountains, the only living Germans left in Tunisia were safely within prison cages. The number of prisoners during the last week of the campaign alone reached 240,000, of which ap-  proximately 125,000 were German. Included in these captures was all that was left of the Afrika Korps and a number of other crack German and Italian units.|461 ee  Page 185 of 669 28%  move was to launch assaults calculated to drive him back to the edge of the Tunisian plain. These began on April 23, and all along the line satisfactory advances were made. Co-ordination between air and ground forces was immeasurably better than at the beginning of the campaign, and all of our assaults took place with effective aerial help. Our superiority in artillery was giving us a further ad-  vantage.  By the time Alexander reached, on the west, the line from which he wished to launch his final thrust, it had become apparent that further attacks from the south by the Eighth Army would be costly and indecisive because of the nature of the terrain along the Enfidaville line. At the same time we confidently believed that the German would expect the main attack to be delivered by the Eighth Army,  since that organization had established a brilliant reputation in its long In the conviction, therefore, that the enemy would in any event keep Eighth Army’s best divisions and attached them to the British First Arm’  The results were speedily decisive. On the left the American II Corps, with some detachments of French “Goumiers,” advanced magnificently t  pursuit across the Western Desert and the enemy would naturally expect us to use it for our knockout punch.  strong forces in front of the Eighth Army, General Alexander quickly and secretly brought around from that flank several of the  y. These arrangements were completed in time to begin the final assault on May 5.  seventh. Just to the southward the British First