ing thousands of Dutchmen from starvation, importance of move into Denmark and liberating Norway) and request delay in the submission of further details to Deane [head of the Military Mission in Moscow] until you hear from the CCS.  The U.S. Chiefs replied today in substance as follows: SCAEF’s procedure in communicating with the Russians appears to have been an operational necessity. Any modification of this communication should be made by Eisenhower and not by the CCS. The course of action outlined in SCAEF plan appears to be in accord with agreed strategy and SCAEF’s directive, particularly in light  Page 477 of 669 69%  After sending this preliminary message we drew up, for General Marshall’s information, a complete digest of our plan and dispatched it by following radio: From Eisenhower to Marshall, dated March 30:  This is in reply to your radio.  The same protests except as to “procedure” contained in that telegram were communicated to me by the Prime Minister over telephone last night.  Iam completely in the dark as to what the protests concerning “procedure” involve. I have been instructed to deal directly with the Russians concerning military co-ordination. There is no change in basic strategy. The British Chiefs of Staff last summer protested against my determination to open up the Frankfurt route because they said it would be futile and would draw strength away from a northern attack. I have always insisted that the northern attack would be the principal effort in that phase of our operations that involved the isolation of the Ruhr, but from the very beginning, extending back before D-day, my plan, explained to my staff and senior officers, has been to link up the primary and secondary efforts in the Kassel area and then make one great thrust to the eastward.  Even cursory examination of the decisive direction for this thrust, after the link-up in the Kassel area is complete, shows that the principal effort should under existing circumstances be toward t