ostwar reports from Germany/2! show that, in the summer of 1941, Hitler was planning to employ only sixty divisions as an occupation force for conquered Russia. He planned to use a portion of the large number of div- isions, thus freed, for movement into the Middle East. It seems evident that the German high command considered the German ground forces completely adequate for any task.  No one was more keenly aware of our shortcomings in Intelligence than General Marshall. In his search for improvement he assigned, on May 5, 1942, as head of the Intelligence Division Major General George V. Strong, a senior officer possessed of a keen mind, a driving energy, and ruthless determination.  No longer handicapped by lack of money, the Chief of Staff did everything possible to repair the neglect of many years; but no amount of money or emergency effort could rapidly establish throughout the world the essential base of observers and fact finders. However, together with General William Donovan's Office of Strategic Services, General Strong gradually began building a system that was eventually to become a vast and effective organization. Fortunately in the early days of the war the British were able to provide us, out of their prior war experience, much vital information concerning the enemy.  The nature of the work in the War Department threw all of us in constant contact with other American services and with Washington representatives of other members of the Allied nations. The necessity for co-ordination in production and in operations, and the realization that all theaters were interrelated, at least in so far as their demands upon the industrial capacity of the country were involved, were obvious. Meetings between the Chief of Staff and Admiral Harold R. Stark, and later Admiral Ernest J. King, were frequent.  The Chief of Staff’s assistants, among whom the principal members were General Somervell, Lieutenant General, later General of the Army, Henry H. Arnold, General M