hat, in spite of the lack of surprise, our assaulting troops could get ashore and make good their position.  Many of our experienced commanders and staff officers strongly advised against attempting this operation, since any failure would have a disheartening effect on the troops to be committed against the Sicilian shore. However, Admiral Cunningham, in particular, agreed with me that the place could be taken at slight cost. We based our conviction upon the assumption that most Italians  Ln Lad a atamannh fl Af Raltin an 2nd cerned lanlein a Fae aeer end aeatian ta alt WIR Lalinernd that if than tnland vrnen athinntad fac aneracal davis and niahts ta an Intancien aie hamhardeant danetina tha  Page 192 of 669 28%  and we ran the risk of defeat in detail. This last possibility we did not consider serious unless before the attack could begin the German strength defending the garrison should reach the danger point, namely, substantially over two divisions. But the plan was complicated and that is always a disadvantage. At first, however, it appeared to be the only possible solution to the problem.  As time went on it was evident that the German was moving to stiffen up the garrison in Sicily, but our information led us to believe that he had not yet attained, or at least passed, what we considered to be the critical level.  No one really liked the plan for echelon attack. Its complications, dispersion, and successive rather than simultaneous assaults were cited as risks outweighing the chance of defeat through lack of port facilities. Montgomery, especially, always a believer in the power concept, desired to throw heavy forces into the southeastern portion of the island.{11] The supply staffs were again required to study the problem, and now they came to a more optimistic estimate than they had some weeks previously.  This change resulted from the unforeseen availability of a considerable number of LSTs and the quantity production of the “duck,” an amphibious vehicle t