7th Armared eammanded hv Mainr General T.indsaw MeN Svlvester and the 1N4th eammanded hw Mainr General Terry Allen a vet-  Page 375 of 669 55%  AMIENS FRANCE  LUXEMBOURG _ .- > / @ ¢  Saw Al x  COLMAR. e  HELMOND  ARNHEM anoNIJMEGEN | @EINCHOVEN® peutic}; le SEPT. 17,1944 BELFORT 3BRW HEAVILY HELD BYGERMANS | 9 miLes 10  When, in spite of heroic effort, the airborne forces and their supporting ground forces were stopped in their tracks, we had ample evidence that much bitter campaigning was still to come. The British 1st Airborne Division, in the van, fought one of the most gallant actions of the war, and its sturdiness materially assisted the two American divisions behind it, and the supporting ground forces of the Twenty-first Army Group, to take and hold important areas. But the division itself suffered badly; only some 2,400 succeeded in withdrawing across the river to safety.!201  It was now vital to avoid any further delay in the capture of Antwerp’s approaches. Montgomery’s forces were, at the moment, badly scattered. His front, in an irregular salient, reached to the lower Rhine. He had to concentrate a sizable force in the Scheldt Estuary and still provide investing troops at some of the small ports holding out along the coast. To insure him opportunity to concentrate for the Scheldt operation we sent him two American divisions, the 7th Armored, commanded by Major General Lindsay McD. Sylvester, and the 104th, commanded by Major General Terry Allen, a vet- eran of the Tunisian and Sicilian campaigns.  The American First Army, at the end of its brilliant march from the Seine to the German border, almost immediately launched the operations that finally brought about the reduction of Aachen, one of the gateways into Germany. The city was stubbornly and fiercely defended but Collins, with his VII Corps, carried out the attack so skillfully that by October 13 he had surrounded the garrison and entered the city. The enemy was steadily forced back into his final s