nce of particular individuals upon particular actions.  Page 306 of 669 45%  CAKRCN IAN  @ LESSAY  CAUMONT  The period from D-day to our decisive breakout on July 25 was a definite phase of the Allied operation and has received the name “Battle of the Beachhead.”  Interest in battles of the past, for soldier and civilian alike, often centers around points that were either of no great moment at the time of their happening or did not impress the actors as being so. An extraordinary amount of research and analysis, to say nothing of charge and countercharge, frequently concerns the originator of an idea; the detail in which developments conformed to precon- ceived plans; the inspiration for given decisions and the influence of particular individuals upon particular actions.  The Battle of the Normandy Beachhead proved no exception to this rule. A deal of froth and fury, as well as much painstaking and objective research, have been devoted to the support of individual theories concerning matters which, had they been recognized at the time as of special later value, might have been settled for all time by the maintenance of written record.  Fortunately most soldiers in war become very objective and the judgment of history does not seem as important, in the midst of battle, as does victory. Moreover, the lack of time and the demands upon the attention of all commanders and staff officers preclude the keeping of day-by-day and minute-by-minute accounts of everything that happens. Many significant actions are initiated by verbal contact, and frequently no record is kept. Battle orders, even for large formations, are often written after instructions have been issued in an exhaustive conference. Notes of the actual discussions do not exist. Moreover, later curiosity so often concerns itself with responsibility for thought and idea, rather than with events and results, that possibly even the most painstaking amanuensis could not leave any clear and unchallengeable account of a