ional strength for this counterattack, some of Rommel’s forces were hurried back from Tripoli to join Von Arnim and Messe in Tunisia. Our early information was that the attack was to be expected through the pass at Fondouk. Watchfulness was of course indicated everywhere and it became more than ever important that our mobile reserves, particularly our armored elements, be kept well concentrated in order to meet the coming attack, no matter through which of the several available passes it might be launched.  The most dangerous area was that held by the American II Corps, stretching throughout a long line from Gafsa on the south to approximately Fondouk on the left. As quickly as possible after conferences in Algiers with various individuals who had previously attended the Casablanca meeting, I departed for that part of the front to spend a week satisfying myself that everything was in good order to receive the exnected attack. Thad received disannointins word fram General Alexander that he could not arrive in the theater hefore the sixteenth ar seventeenth of the month. and T felt it im-  Page 166 of 669 25%  had sent home to explain the Darlan matter and told me the message had been most useful in calming fears that all of us were turning Fascist.  It was some time after I had returned to Algiers that the “unconditional surrender” formula was announced by the President and the Prime Minister.[71 Of more immediate importance to me was the decision that the British Eighth Army and the Desert Air Force, coming up through Tripoli and lower Tunisia, would be assigned to the Allied forces under my command when once they had entered the latter province. During the day I spent at Casablanca I was informed of this general plan, but not until General Marshall later came to Algiers did I learn that it had been definitely approved. General Alexander was to become the deputy commander of the Allied forces. Admiral Cunningham was to remain as my naval C. in C. and Air Chief Marsh