ndence I placed upon the operation of the precision bomber in preparing the way for a ground invasion of France.  This was the keynote of the invasion plan. Unless accurate daylight bombing was feasible, I believed, large-scale invasion of the Continent would be exceedingly risky. Therefore I maintained that even if we could carry on precision bombing only to the extreme range of our fighters we must continue to develop the United States forces on that basis, so as to have available the great force that would be needed to carry out the preparatory work in the areas selected for invasion.  The upshot was that the United States Air Forces stuck to their program of precision bombing, while the British Bomber Force continued to concentrate on increasing the efficiency of night bomber operations. While the question was raised again, on the highest levels, at the Casablanca Conference in January 1943, the result was merely to confirm this earlier decision.[211  Coupled with our organizational and preparatory program was the task of developing an operational plan to carry out the agreed-upon strategical concepts of the two governments. At that time General Sir Bernard Paget was commanding the Home Forces of Great Britain, from which would have to come the British contingent of the invading army. His troops included a number of Canadian divisions serving under the command of General Andrew McNaughton. Air Chief Marshal Sir Sholto Douglas was designated as the commander for the British Expeditionary Air Forces. Admiral Sir Bertram Ramsay was named to head British naval forces. It was in co-operation with these men that the original work of developing a European invasion plan was undertaken by United States headquarters.  Page 72 of 669 1%  or owen oe wo Ns — ee a a —————— —* CM  See ee en — 2  adil ~ aes -—_ ad —— ae ia United States was already developing long-range fighters which would become available by the time his Eighth Air Force could reach its scheduled strength. Ho