ile I with a .45 formed the mobile reserve, we remounted our cars and made our way through the town without incident. A short time later my driver fell asleep and we ended up ina shallow ditch, but with no casualties. Upon arrival at corps headquarters I found that the German attack had already struck.!11 It was too late to make changes in dispositions.  Although during the morning frequent and, as it later turned out, very accurate reports were submitted by the American troops to General Anderson concerning the strength and direction of the German attack through Faid, these reports were discounted by the Army and AFHQ Intelligence divisions as the exaggeration of green, untried troops. The belief that the main attack was still to come through Fondouk persisted, both at Army headquarters and, as I later learned, in the G-2 Division at AFHQ.|19! The G-2 error was serious. After the battle I replaced the head of my Intelligence organ- ization at AFHQ. The result of this misconception was that the penetration gained a tremendous headway before General Anderson could understand what was actually taking place.  Realizing by nightfall that reinforcements in men and equipment would be needed quickly and urgently, I hastened back to headquarters to hurry them forward. We scraped the baxyel and then I started back to the front.  During the withdrawal the Americans fought a series of ineffective, though gallant, delaying actions on the way back toward Kasserine Pass, a spot clearly indicated as one to be strongly held. But there was a local lack of appreciation of exactly what was happening and the troops assigned were neither numerous enough nor skillful enough to hold that strong position. The enemy armor pushed on through the hastily constructed defense in the pass.  Finally, however, in spite of surprise and relatively large losses, our troops rallied in good fashion and fell back to cover the important center of Tebessa and the routes leading northward from Kasserine tow