ps began a brilliant dash across Schleswig-Holstein to the Baltic and entered Liibeck on the afternoon of May 2. This sealed off the enemy in  Page 491 of 669 N%  With Bradley’s army group firmly established on the Elbe, the stage was now set for the final Allied moves of the campaign. The enemy was split into independent commands in the north and south and had no means of restoring a single front against either the Russians or ourselves. With his world collapsing about him, the German soldier lost all desire to fight. Only in isolated instances did com- manders succeed in maintaining cohesion among their units. During the first three weeks of April the Western Allies captured more than a million prisoners.|181  Even before the Allied advance across central Germany began, we knew that the German Government was preparing to evacuate Berlin. The administrative offices seemed to be moving to the southward, possibly, we thought, to Berchtesgaden in the National Redoubt. Continuation of the movement was no longer possible after Bradley’s speedy advance barred further north-south traffic across the country. We knew also that Hitler had been unable to go south and that he was making his last stand in Berlin. Nevertheless, the strong possibility still existed that fanatical Nazis would attempt to establish themselves in the National Redoubt, and the early overrunning of that area remained important to us.19] In the north also there remained weighty reasons for speeding up the planned attack in the direction of Liibeck.  The Liibeck advance would capture the last remaining submarine bases of the German and would effectively eliminate the final vestiges of that once serious menace.  We could not predict the action of the German occupation forces in Denmark. It was possible they would choose to defend that region stubbornly and in that event we planned to conduct a lightning campaign against them.  In early April, Montgomery had estimated that, to carry out the mission assigne