ary-before she became Baroness von Suttner in a clandestine wedding in 1876. Suttner dedicated herself to writing, both in the couple's first romantic decade together in the Caucasus and from her husband's family's modest castle near Vienna thereafter. No one knows what sparked her investment in the cause, but she decided to write an antiwar novel. Suttner had heard of the fledgling European peace societies in her salons-and succeeded in raising them to a new level of visibility in the novel she dashed off quickly. She later explained that it was mainly a matter of saying the right thing at the right time: "The stroke of lightning is only possible if the air is loaded with electricity." Like Stowe's sentimental fiction, the familial melo- drama of the story and the feminine protest against the effects of  HUMANE |50| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS brutal violence on domestic virtue added a supremely popular new perspective to Christian and male reform alike. Lay Down Your Arms is the heartrending story of a young Aus- trian wife. She loses one husband to the Battle of Magenta-an engagement in Lombardy in the Austro-Sardinian War two weeks before the Battle of Solferino, which had led to the Red Cross's found- ing. Then Suttner's heroine finds domestic bliss with a second mate repeatedly called to Austria's wars, especially its failed wars against Prussia in the course of German unification, culminating in the bloody 1866 Battle of Königgrätz. In Suttner's dramatization of anti- war politics, the dead and wounded were not faceless and faraway They were the husbands, brothers, and sons of modern women no longer resigned to their losses. Artlessly didactic in its message, the novel was effective for its hundreds of thousands of readers because it staged a moral awakening through the experiences of its characters. Martha, the narrator and protagonist, long shares the "dark and awful conception which the majority of mankind have of war." Before her enlightenment, how- ever,