ed and whitewashed. "I believe in God who made of one blood all races that dwell on the earth," the African American intellectual W.E.B. Du Bois prayed in 1904 in his prose-poem "Credo," anticipating a world without aggressive conflict or race war. "I believe in the Prince of Peace. I be- lieve that War is Murder," he continued. "I believe that armies and navies are at bottom the tinsel and braggadocio of oppression and wrong; and I believe that the wicked conquest of weaker and darker nations by nations white and stronger but foreshadows the death of that strength." But it would take a long time. "Finally, I believe in Patience," Du Bois concluded. He would need it. AS THE TWENTIETH CENTURY BEGAN, THE CAUSE OF HUMANE WAR HAD little to show for itself. The few provisions that might have imposed serious limits on the conduct of fighting were simply ignored in prac- tice. It was not just that humane war was a consolation prize for the failure to constrain the resort to force in the first place. It was not merely that the rules of humane war were inapplicable to most con- flicts because they were counterinsurgent and colonial fights. The last indignity was that, even when they were applicable, the few con- cessions that states recorded on paper had little real bearing on mili- tary practices, and were ignored or abandoned even in conventional warfare when hostilities broke out. As the great advocate of aerial bombardment of civilians was to note, international legal constraints were always "swept away like dried leaves on the winds of war." The trampling of the original Geneva Convention as the Franco- Prussian War spun out of control into counterinsurgency ought to have been sobering. A half century later, the Balkan wars of 1912 and 1913, now regarded as crucial preludes to the outbreak of World War I in 1914, were simply too anarchic and atrocious for the idea  HUMANE | 116 | LAWS OF INHUMANITY of humane war to be credible. Imagining the impact of the mutual defense