son Frederick, serving as assistant secretary of state, "regarded it as a settled thing" when Barton approached him in 1877. After five years of her agitation and under a new administration, Secretary of State James Blaine decided that "the Monroe Doctrine was not made to ward off humanity," and the United States became the last "civilized power" to join the treaty in 1882. At the turn of the century, however, that same doctrine was still taken to mark limits to America's ability to enter binding international peace agreements. At The Hague, in 1899, the U.S. representative An- drew Dickson White organized a field trip to nearby Delft on July 4 to lay a wreath of silver and gold on the tomb of the seventeenth- century philosopher Hugo Grotius. The act was meant to symbol- ize the coincidence of America's role in the world with the aims of the tradition of international law that the early modern thinker had supposedly founded. But when it came to the conference's arbitra- tion treaty, Europeans agreed that the United States lacked any global obligations. Nothing so far interfered with whatever action America deemed necessary in its hemispheric security zone, or required U.S. involvement in European affairs. Indeed, as America's empire expanded across the Pacific starting | 61| in 1898, the country stubbornly refused any version of arbitration that placed any check on its freedom to stay out of European war. Arbitration was a good thing for European states, given their usual internecine violence. But Americans drew up short if arbitration meant they might get drawn into wars, especially ones pitting Euro- pean warmongers against one another. In 1897, the U.S. secretary of state Richard Olney negotiated a treaty calling for submission of any disputes with the United Kingdom to binding arbitration. It was a sign of a growing relationship between the "mother country" and its once-rebellious child and was welcomed initially as "one of the greatest events of modern history