God, asserts herself as civilization advances and will be heard," insisted a group of U.S. peace activists advocating arbitration who met every year at the beautiful Lake Mohonk in New York State, where their leaders owned a hotel that still draws visitors. And Suttner frequently returned the favor. "I wish to dwell for a moment on the subject of America," she had remarked on the receipt of her Nobel Peace Prize for 1905, to an overflowing crowd |59| in the Hals Brothers Concert Hall in Oslo in April 1906. "This land of limitless opportunities is marked by its ability to carry out new and daring plans of enormous imagination and scope, while often using the simplest methods. In other words, it is a nation idealistic in its concepts and practical in its execution of them. We feel that the modern peace movement has every chance in America of attracting strong support and of finding a clear formula for the implementation of its aims." She had visited the United States twice, in 1904 and 1912. The first time she came for the international peace conference that year and met with President Theodore Roosevelt. He owed his reputa- tion to leading the Rough Riders in the Battle of San Juan Hill in Cuba in 1898, and thus for leading the United States into an imperial era. After extracting Roosevelt's promise to advance the arbitration movement, Suttner traveled as far as Cincinnati. On her next trip, Suttner traveled to San Francisco at the invi- tation of women's activists. Omitting the annexation of Hawaii and the incorporation of the formerly Spanish Philippines, Suttner once again held out the United States as iconic. "America's glory and gran- deur," she recorded, "consisted in having attained such proportions without a standing army, safe without defense, giving the world an example of peace." Celebrating the enfranchisement of Californian women the year before her visit to San Francisco, Suttner cast it as one more sign that America would "lead the lion of European mil