mane were inapplicable as well. Indeed, the inhumanity of wars would remain and even worsen, even as they broke out too regularly and lasted too long. The fact that killing was nasty and brutish did not make it either infrequent or short. That some wars would become more humane, toward the end of the twentieth century, could never undermine the ethical importance of pushing for even more humanity. Even so, Tolstoy's anxieties about the risks the ideal of humane war poses to an elusive peace still apply. |45| Tolstoy went too far and, like many prophets, spoke too soon. He had a premonition of a fearful syndrome that had not yet come online. He understood that humanity in warfare, for all its virtues, opened up the possibility of a new vice-facilitating and legitimating war rather than controlling its outbreak or ending its continuation. Humanitarianism led advocates to compromise in pursuit of humane war and publics to feel good enough about themselves in the bargain to permit it to go on and on. In his great post-Vietnam book Just and Unjust Wars (1977), the political theorist Michael Walzer concluded with a respectful cri- tique of the Russian sage. "It is no service to the cause to ridicule the rules of war," he wrote, "as Tolstoy did." Humanizing conflict, Wal- zer surmised, itself makes possible further resistance to it: ungov- erned violence, after all, might leave no one left to criticize it. The "restraint of war" through the humanizing of rules "is the begin- ning of peace." To which one might say: Sometimes, sometimes not. In one of the most celebrated scenes in War and Peace, Prince Andrei, his back on the ground after being wounded at Austerlitz, becomes enraptured by the sky, which symbolizes justice and tran- quility, compared with earthbound carnage and strife. "All is van- ity, all falsehood, except that infinite sky," Andrei meditates. Tolstoy died shortly before war began to colonize the heavens, and he could not have imagined our age of drones. Bu