im when he argued that air war needed rules, he realized now, with the end of the war in sight, that the bomber had "saved civilization." Indeed, the bomber would prove the guarantor of any postwar peace: "It is the ideal weapon for smothering aggression." But Japan had to fall, too. Many Americans greeted a Carthagin- ian peace in the making, requiring not just total defeat but utter de- struction. Sent to the Pacific as a general to command the bombing of Japan in 1944-45, Curtis LeMay had a number of reasons for sending his B-29 Superfortresses on low-altitude runs at night to burn wooden cities and the civilians living in them. Scores of cities and hundreds of thousands of civilians were incinerated well before Harry Truman's climactic decision to nuke Hiroshima and Nagasaki. More people likely died in the destruction of Tokyo on the night of March 9-10, 1945, than from Fat Man and Little Boy, the two nuclear bombs that the B-29s Bock's Car and Enola Gay dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August of that year. LeMay himself sought the most destruction possi- ble because it was predicted at the time that a ground invasion would require 750,000 U.S. troops, at least a third of whom might die. (Num- bers were subsequently exaggerated way upward in rationalization.) Thanks to LeMay's innovations, he recalled, "the war was over before the atomic bomb was dropped." As the inferno raged, never was the law of war deemed relevant, nor was any lawyer asked whether it was. Like earlier colonial struggles, World War II was a race war-for Adolf Hitler in the European theater, most of all, but also for Ameri- cans in the Pacific. It was certainly a racialized war for the Japanese, who presented themselves as both antiracist and pan-Asian, white- washing their severity in the annexation of Korea in 1910 and their col- onization of much of China, beginning with Manchuria in 1931. The Americans ended their war in the Pacific in the way the Japanese had started it, with death fr