nd wounded on the battlefield. European states negoti- ate the agreement and are the first to join, under the auspices of what becomes the International Committee for the Red Cross, founded by Swiss gentlemen. Though devised only to respond to the suffering of soldiers on the battlefield, it is the first act of the project to make war humane. The United States ratifies the treaty in 1882. 1874: European states gather (excluding nongovernmental groups) to propound the Brussels Declaration, codifying existing customs of war around land war and occupation regimes in response to the dis- order and civilian uprisings of the Franco-Prussian War and the Paris Commune.  APPENDIX | 328| APPENDIX 1899: The Hague Conventions of 1899 are finalized at the end of a conference the Russian tsar had called for the sake of disarmament and peace. With U.S. participation, the fallback agreements include fuller-scale regulations on land war than before. Major innovations are made to regularize occupation of territory and safeguard prison- ers of war by requiring humane treatment. Within combat, the new rules ban the use of soft-tipped ammunition and exclude hospitals and sites of cultural significance as targets. Aerial bombardment is prohibited for five years. 1907: A second peace conference leads to the Hague Conventions of 1907, with minor changes and updates to the earlier Hague treaty on land warfare. The temporary prohibition of aerial bombardment is extended in anticipation of a future conference that would finalize it-but that conference never takes place. 1923: Rules of Air Warfare are drafted by states, limiting aerial bombardment to "military objectives" and banning it where targets cannot be struck without "indiscriminate bombardment of the civil- ian population." No states ultimately ratify the agreement. 1925: The Geneva Protocol bans the wartime use of bacteriological and gas weapons. 1929: A new Geneva Convention, officially named the Convention Relative to the Treatment