rk for killing operations already under way and left opaque whether and what standards did apply to a globalizing war. 2011: After long study, the Obama administration concludes that what Hamdan v. Rumsfeld set as a legal floor for the war on terror- Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions-was also its legal ceiling, meaning that any further constraints were those imposed as policy rather than obligation. 2013: The Obama administration finishes the Presidential Policy Guidance (PPG), an internal secret playbook for the conduct of tar- geted killings outside areas of active hostilities. Institutionalizing a clear process for strikes, the document prohibits them-in theory- when there is any risk of collateral injury whatsoever.  APPENDIX |332 2016: The Presidential Policy Guidance is made public. 2017: After his election, President Donald Trump's administra- tion rescinds the Presidential Policy Guidance and replaces it with a Principles, Standards, and Procedures framework. It weakens Obama's rules-in particular by not requiring presidential sign-off on killing-while still prohibiting strikes that threaten civilian life in any way. Notes 2021: In the early months of his administration, President Joseph Biden promised to finalize troop withdrawal from Afghanistan by the twentieth anniversary of September 11, 2001, even as Congress debated whether to rescind its original authorizations for the war on terror. Biden also began reviews of drone and targeted killing policy and of military deployments worldwide. Even so, in the first weeks of his administration, he ordered missile attacks on militias operat- ing in Syria as alleged Iranian proxies, in what was widely viewed as a blatant violation of international law governing the use of force. In spite of Biden's campaign rhetoric-like Trump's in 2015-to "end endless war," it was left very open what parts of the humane and stealthy American war invented over the prior decades would remain. 1. THE WARNING 18 "You will se