control" pending bet- ter understanding of what these autonomous machines can do-and how soon. Just as with armed drones before, the short-term question on both sides of the debate is whether autonomous weapons systems will succeed or fail in bringing the utopia of humane war down to earth, advancing or retarding its likelihood. But the long-term question may well turn out to be the opposite-whether the dream is in fact a nightmare. IN THE DAYS WHEN THEY WERE TAKING THEIR BIGGEST STEP ON THE path to humane war, Americans were apt to wonder if they were living in the best of times. Along all metrics, it was an ideal present, |321| some said, with future progress as far as the eye could see, and loom- ing threats more trivial than worrywarts believed. The New York Times columnist Nick Kristof ended every year by conceding that bad things had happened-but added that, beneath visible notice and beyond the distractions of bad headlines, the human condition improved with every collective trip around the sun. Steven Pinker, a psychologist from Canada teaching at Harvard University, argued that it was a new era of enlightenment and progress. He made the de- cline of war in particular and violence in general central to his case for prosecuting holdouts to optimism. But even before Trump's elec- tion led many toward despondency, and the recognition of enduring ills, it was clear that the best of times sometimes come together with the worst of times. You can strive for peace, only to bring it through empire and end- less war, a bitter lesson that Americans have had to learn in the last century. You can strive after long decades of acceptable brutality- for more humane approaches to those wars but end up fighting more of them than you intended, even while believing or saying that their humanity makes them more tolerable. Blatant racism and massive death might no longer infect their conduct, even as the wars them- selves presuppose an extraordinary ongoing hierarchy among na- ti