ower was extended across the Cotton South and the number of humans held in bondage-however they were treated-skyrocketed. And every- where it spread, humane slavery was insulated against criticism in the bargain. With "inhumane treatment" of chattel property in- creasingly under a cloud, slavery emerged "more tolerable for the slaveowner and the abolitionist," wrote one of America's greatest historians of slavery. "Victories over brutality left the real enemy more entrenched than ever. As slavery became less brutal there was less reason why it should be abolished." The compromises that "hu- manity" made with slavers along the way were profound. No wonder that by the 1830s radical abolitionists in the United States inferred that the British example of ameliorating slavery had only entrenched | 41| the institution. For them, this stoked "a sense of urgency" about the need for immediate abolition, and "a mistrust of palliatives." If they had been correct in retrospect, Tolstoy asked, why was the attempt to bring about humane war now different? BUT TOLSTOY'S FAVORITE OBJECT LESSON OF A VIOLENT CORPORAL practice that, if humanized, could endure more malignantly than ever was not human bondage but the slaughter of animals. This ex- ample allowed him to explore not advocates and their debatable and perverse compromises but entire societies and their bad faith. What did it mean when societies took modest acts that allowed their mem- bers to think they were good people while merely humanizing a sys- temic evil central to their way of life? From his youth, Tolstoy had eaten animals with gusto. His years baiting and killing them were memorialized in War and Peace both in Pierre Bezukhov's evening carousing with a bear and in an aris- tocratic wolf hunt. Even then, Tolstoy knew that "man feels a sense of horror" when "seeing a dying animal," for a being "similar to his own is perishing before his eyes." In "The Bear Hunt," a later story, Tolstoy fictionalized his own brush with