Brook- ings Institution. A few weeks after the United States entered World War I in summer 1917, Philip Wright sent his son a speech by Sena- tor J. Hamilton Lewis of Illinois predicting that the war would force America to enter a "United States of World Government." It was "exactly the thing called for," Quincy wrote back. Was it not realistic, he explained to his father, to do the same for the world-pushing it from loose confederation to strong federation- that the Constitution had done for the American states in 1787? An organization of polities under law was "the scheme of things which international law writers have thought, (not realized) for the past three  HUMANE | 64| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS hundred years," and the world was "very much nearer that desider- atum than appearances would lead one to believe." In response, Philip Wright (who dabbled in verse when not studying sugar and tar- iffs) cited Alfred Lord Tennyson's memorable poem "Locksley Hall," which promised a day when "the war-drum throbb'd no longer." With "the battle-flags . . . furl'd," a "Parliament of man, the Federation of the world" would arise. Still, it was a prospect that hardly seemed imminent-and Philip worried whether the legalistic reform of which his son was so enamored would ever bring it about, especially given the grim news of Black people massacred by white mobs in East St. Louis and socialists protesting war beaten in the street in Boston. The objection that "technical discussions on questions of the law of war, seem wholly futile when we hope to abolish war," Quincy acknowledged, struck him powerfully. (Nor was it novel. He and his new wife, Louise, were reading Tolstoy together that very summer. he explained.) Moreover, it would be wrong to proceed with small steps without keeping the ultimate goal of final peace in mind at the same time. But his father made a gross error in thinking that peace was utopian. "There is no problem so small that its solution in the better way i