ainst a great power or its friends," Wright glumly admitted in 1947. No, it definitely wasn't what he had had in mind. It meant that, early and often, the United States could use the exception of "self-defense" to the otherwise absolute prohibition on force. But the hypothetical potential for American endless war was not the only problem. With the coming of the Cold War and the Communist takeover of Eastern Europe, it was clear that the defeat of Hitler had still left a totalitar- ian onetime ally around to disturb the peace. Now a nuclear power, the Soviet Union, after all, was also on the Security Council and possessed a veto. It used that power routinely in an era when the United States and its allies controlled the body (after Mao Zedong's 1949 revolution, China lost its seat for three de- cades). With the Soviet Union playing spoiler in the face of Amer- ican mastery, the organization was deadlocked. There was a peace in Europe, armed to the teeth at the Fulda Gap, with no federation relevant to it: not much to write home about and hardly the stuff of which Wright had dreamed. It was the balance of power of two em- pires, not international comity under law. THE QUESTION OF HOW WARS WERE FOUGHT WAS NOT IGNORED IN THE late 1940s. But at Nuremberg, and at its sister trial in Tokyo, and in a new attempt at rulemaking, the question was distinctly subsidiary to the quest for peace. The middle of the twentieth century saw the war with the most victims in history: at least twenty million soldiers died legally, and five million prisoners of war died in violation of the laws of humane protection, with fifty million civilians perishing because they were directly targeted or collaterally killed, or they suf- fered from disease and disorder during the war or after. Of these, six million Jews died in history's most notorious crime. The main prior- ity for world affairs was the establishment of international peace. But a few turned their attention to changing the rules for fi