sm was almost dead. The dec- laration by the Soviet Union (which infiltrated Wallace's campaign) of "a peace offensive" in 1948, as the hallmark of its own empire's foreign policy, calling for coexistence rather than conflict, made it exasperatingly difficult for Americans to articulate their own pacific visions. "Peace propaganda and agitation have a disarming effect on those nations, which are intended victims of communism," screamed the chair of the House Un-American Activities Committee. The Cold War shifted what the United States said it stood for globally, from peace to freedom. Fledgling movements targeted the fearful threat of the atomic bomb, some Christians retrieved their traditions from before World War II and adjusted them in the face of globalized  HUMANE | 150| | 151| AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE conflict, and women's groups continued their hopes of softening in- ternational affairs in a man's world-to little effect when it was the order of the day to defend and spread freedom violently. In August 1949, the Soviets detonated their own first test nuclear weapon in the desert of Kazakhstan and the arms race began. As Al- bert Schweitzer, the Alsatian historian of Christianity turned medi- cal humanitarian, noted when he received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1954, treaties on the laws of war may have made some difference, but "these advantages are trifling when set beside the immeasurable harm which has been inflicted by modern methods of death and destruction." He spoke for the few peace activists of the early Cold War: "There cannot, at the present time, be any question of 'human- izing' war." THE EUROPEAN PEACE COEXISTED WITH A NEW BOUT OF CRUEL GLOBAL war. And this time, it was Americans who waged that war. Its most decisive moment came on October 1, 1950, when General Douglas MacArthur weighed an extraordinary choice on which the future of the world order turned. The United States had helped divide the Korean Peninsula after the Japanese were expe