loody wars would be- come less routine. They also suggested that shock and awe would end more quickly once it started. As Lieber forecast, "intense wars are of short duration." Yet advocates of making war humane offered an exactly paral- lel guess on behalf of their own cause. Already in 1864, Gustave Moynier called the Geneva Convention the path down "a slope where there is no stopping; the end of the road cannot be less than the condemnation of war in absolute terms." The laws of war would become "secret agents of pacification," Moynier foresaw in one of his rare moments of visionary enthusiasm. "The humanization of war could end only in its abolition," he promised his funders. "The [Ge- neva] Convention has furnished an argument in favor of the broth- erhood of men. Recognizing that after all they all belong to the same  HUMANE | 32| THE WARNING family, men have concluded that they ought to begin by showing some regard for another's suffering, up to a certain point . . . pending the time when a still stronger conviction of their common humanity shall lead them to understand that the very idea of their killing one another is monstrous." In short, it was not intensification that would indirectly abet pacification, but humanization. In fact, the argument that Tolstoy the novelist puts in Prince An- drei's mouth depends for its success on complete speculation. Could it really work to make war more brutal in the short run so that it became less common and more humane in the long run? Was there evidence for that proposition in the history of Tolstoy's own time let alone the brutal and long wars of the twentieth century he did not live to see? Equally hypothetical and unproven, however, was the occasional suggestion of advocates of humanization like Moynier that they were the ones bringing about peace indirectly. After a conversion experience, Tolstoy gave up Prince Andrei's shortsighted view. But Aylmer Maude, his biographer and friend, was absolutely right that the sp