says, "of mercy to the unfortunate." And adds: "It's all rubbish." Andrei's position was a direct attack on Dunant's dream. The prince's attack was rooted not in any immediate appeal to the ethics of peace Tolstoy would later embrace but instead in the peculiar belief that intensifying war could advance peace indirectly. And to understand this belief, and Tolstoy's eventual reasons for giving it up, it is critical to detour into another agenda for modernizing war: to make it more intense. The most celebrated theorist of war of the age and all time, the Prussian nobleman Carl von Clausewitz, clarified that the point of engagement is annihilation, and he asserted "the dominance of the destructive principle," which he feared earlier theorists of war had downplayed. In his four decades in the Prussian Army, the "god of war" had lived through a trio of Napoleonic battles, including Borodino-where, on the bloodiest day of the century, a European army forced Napoleon's epic advance to a draw at the gates of Mos- cow in 1812. It was a site that, fifty years later, Tolstoy himself would visit in a hunting wagon halfway through his work, consulting peas- ants and planning his own narrative, including Prince Andrei's mor- tal wounding there. In his masterpiece, On War (1832), Clausewitz had warned against the "kind-hearted" fiction that a nation could wage a war "without too much bloodshed." Not only was it useless, but morally reforming war could exacerbate its evil. "Mistakes which come from kindness are the very worst." Treating the carnage in war as a sin for which to | 29| atone or-worse-a blemish on the most beautiful activity in life was something like a moral error. "It would be futile-even wrong-to try to shut one's eyes to what war really is from sheer distress at its brutality," Clausewitz explained. Concerns about how gory and grue- some the commitments to intensity could become were petty. "The fact that slaughter is a horrifying spectacle must make us take war mo