rus, Indians were still "in a savage state" with "continual war" as "the natural instinct and appetite." And when the law was taken to be relevant, it was because Indians, them- selves not following the rules, did not get the protection of any. America's default way of war-honed in the imperial encounter with native peoples and lasting into the twentieth century across the globe-recognized no limits. There was no protection for noncombat- ants, since the people were the enemy; prisoners, if captured instead of killed by choice, were entitled to no respect; and torture, eventually the most important taboo in an age of more humane war, was rampant. "Will it not be strictly just and absolutely necessary," one newspaper asked in the eighteenth century, "that we . . . make some severe exam- ples of our inhuman enemies when they fall into our hands?" If justification was needed-and the point is that it usually | 105 | wasn't-the new Americans were just punishing their predeces- sors for having taken the low road first. "The known rule of war- fare with the Indian Savages is an indiscriminate butchery of men, women, and children," Thomas Jefferson maintained in 1779. It was scandalous when white men visited such cruelties on fellow white people. But it was noble or at least necessary when the "Sav- ages" themselves needed to be cleansed from the land, and Jefferson cheered two years later when seven hundred Virginians burned and terrorized Cherokee country, as if no limits applied. Two centuries after the Pequot War, the First Seminole War, in 1816-19, was conceived as one episode in an endless and inhumane war by necessity. Hillis Hadjo, leader of the Red Stick tribe, known by white people as Josiah Francis "the Prophet," raided Fort Sinque- field in Alabama before his men were decisively beaten and fled into the Florida Panhandle wilderness. Apprehended a few years later by Andrew Jackson, leading U.S. forces in a reign of terror at the head of the Tennessee militia, Had