n 1870, setting the stage for the hostilities that followed when the U.S. secretary of war sent a directive to enforce the peace treaty by expelling the Modocs from California. "The treaty was a lie," Captain Jack explained to one friendly white contact-though people differed as to whether he had been deceived at the start, was angry that the government failed to pro- tect his people, or simply didn't like his new life, compared with his old one "free from restraint." It wasn't a unique situation, with "Indian war" often starting because Americans broke false prom- ises in peacemaking. "How many times were the treaties a hypocrit- ical mask covering embarrassing corruption beneath the pretense of legality?" wondered Jean Pictet, a Swiss gentleman responsible for renovating the laws of war in the later twentieth century, while | 109 | writing American history on the side. "It is hard to understand how men who were respectable in their own society could show so much duplicity when they dealt with the natives. But then, why should pens have been less mendacious than forked tongues?" As skirmishes escalated into war, Americans conducting hos- tilities recognized no limits, for no law-written or not-applied. The ill-starred peace conference where Captain Jack committed his treacherous assassination had been arranged after army forces with scores of volunteers could not beat him and his men, holed up in their natural fortress in the lava. In furious response, Sherman or- dered the "utter extermination" of the tribe, and Canby's successors started to attempt just that. Both army forces and private militias began killing any Modocs they could find, including women and children. And if they stopped, it was not because any law required them to do so. After Captain Jack and his confederates were captured, the oc- togenarian but still passionate Quaker feminist and pacifist Lucretia Mott and her fellow leaders of the Universal Peace Union implored Grant to offer something bette