ore vio- lence than ever. By the 1860s, when Americans got around to starting their own American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, its founder could explain that "already it is fashionable to defend the friendless dumb brute." But that defense prettified enduring and even increased violence, especially since the stigmatization of some out- rages to animals coexisted with the skyrocketing of their murder for food. Prince Andrei in War and Peace, as part of his speech, captured the hypocrisy brilliantly. Making war more humane, he says, is ex- actly like "the magnanimity and sensibility of the lady who turns sick at the sight of a slaughtered calf-she is so kind-hearted she can- not see blood-but eats fricasseed veal with a very good appetite." In 1885, Tolstoy met William Frey, an itinerant mathematician who had served as a soldier in the Russian Empire during the Napole- onic Wars before moving to central Kansas to take part in an ill-fated Russian colony. A vegetarian, Frey had also given up salt entirely. And over a few days of intense conversation, he convinced his new friend that the structure of human teeth and the length of our in- testines proved eating meat was unnatural, in case the moral reasons a preacher renowned for nonviolence might have to abstain weren't enough. Tolstoy's daughters and his-initially rather grudging-wife conformed to his new vegetarian diet; a cookbook of their recipes traveled the world. Unlike many early vegetarians of the era, who were often linked to other kinds of counterculture but saw no connection between diet | 43 and war, Tolstoy constantly sustained Prince Andrei's analogy be- tween slaughtering animals and killing men. "As long as there are slaughterhouses there will always be battlefields," he had remarked already the year before his decision to stop eating meat. When he wrote a preface for an early treatise of vegetarian ethics in 1892, Tolstoy returned to his analogy of animal slaughter and hu- mane war.