s shocked when Tolstoy insisted in conversation that Ballou was the "greatest of all American writers." Never one to avoid the opportunity to pen a lengthy tome, Tolstoy was so affected by his Americans that he started writing a commentary that became his most influential statement of his phi- | 35 | losophy of nonviolence, The Kingdom of God Is Within You (1894). Citing the Americans copiously, Tolstoy also gave his thinking free rein. He gratefully followed Ballou's biblical interpretations, since-Tolstoy said-"no aspect of the question" of nonresistance had escaped Ballou's gaze. And it was no accident that the Amer- icans had been led to oppose slavery and war simultaneously, and through it discovered the general principle of nonviolent politics in response to evil. When requested to address the American people as a whole in 1901, Tolstoy decided to "thank them for the great help" that their peace advocates had afforded him. "And I should like to ask the American people," he added mischievously, "why they do not pay more attention to these voices (hardly to be replaced by those of financial and industrial millionaires, or successful generals and admirals)." Ever since his conversion, Tolstoy's readers have been divided by his ethics. The Russian sage never fully worked out its implica- tions. He coveted a morality of pure intentions rather than judging by results. "To many people of our society it would be impossible to torture or kill a baby, even if they were told that by doing so they could save hundreds of other people," he wrote to a New York correspondent in 1896. "And in the same way, a man who has devel- oped a Christian sensibility of heart finds a whole series of actions have become impossible for him." But he sometimes appealed to results anyway-as he would when it came to the likely effects of making war humane. And he didn't ever precisely explain whether and why all vio- lence was really proscribed. Tolstoy once diffidently acknowledged that killin