Humane war did not get off the ground, so it could not yet threaten peace. States began to engage in more international law- making after Dunant's Geneva Convention, but they took advantage of Geneva's reputation to push forward protections that were com- patible with almost any form of military force. Far more gallingly, the protections did not even apply to the most atrocious forms of combat-colonial and counterinsurgent warfare, especially against racialized foes. And in World War I and long after, what rules did apply were almost universally ignored. Like Leo Tolstoy's, Suttner's anxieties that the idea of humane war would entrench war itself were creditable-but they had been expressed far too early to apply. The laws of war were not humane. In fact, the essentially limitless war they allowed reveals that it is only the partial humanization of conflict in our own time, with new rules propounded and new observance of old ones, that incurs the risks of which moralists had warned from the first. IT WAS THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR OF 1870-71 THAT DROVE EUROPEAN statesmen to begin forging more treaties about how to fight war-so that it could be fought with maximum forcefulness. On both sides of the Atlantic Ocean, it was an age of writing rules in domestic codes and international treaties. In the case of war, most of the law that emerged remained permissive-a trend reinforced by the frighten- ing reemergence of armed partisan warfare and civil resistance on the European continent. In fall 1870, Prussia won a quick victory at Sedan over Emperor Napoleon III, who was sent packing by a new French republic that went on to fight for another five months. As the Prussian forces ad- vanced, the French population did not greet its occupiers meekly. Both sides had signed the Geneva Convention, yet across northern France, they both disrespected it while charging that all the blame fell on the other side. When the American nurse Clara Barton and other humanitarians sought to amelior