m to binding arbitration. It was a sign of a growing relationship between the "mother country" and its once-rebellious child and was welcomed initially as "one of the greatest events of modern history." The Senate voted it down. American elites still pursued the broader project of making such treaties in the aftermath of this bitter experience. The Republican secretary of state and later New York senator Elihu Root was a fanatic for arbitration in order to keep the United States out of European wars. (He did not believe the concept should apply to the colonial pacification of his country's new Philippines holdings.) Root even won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1912 for arbitration work. U.S. in- terest in international law exploded, with professional associations formed and new journals founded. For fifteen years, Root presided over an endowment for international peace funded by the steel mag- nate Andrew Carnegie, which touted the uses of international law. The new breed of practitioners in the field, operating in harmony with the new American empire, considered arbitration an important mission-but even they generally wanted its fulfillment to leave the United States free of hard new commitments. In spite-or as a reflection-of America's traditions of keep- ing distance from European wars, an extraordinary flourishing of peace activism and sentiment occurred. Peace was a mainstream idea for Americans, who could not imagine themselves disrupting it (at least outside their own hemisphere). It sank into many sec- tors of national life, from Christians to feminists and from lawyers to workingmen. Carnegie, inspired by his Scottish uncle's devo- tion to the issue, became a "great apostle of arbitration and peace,"  HUMANE | 62| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS as American activists exultantly put it when he came out for the cause in 1904. Alongside his American peace projects, Carnegie gave the enormous sum of $1.5 million-$50 million today-to build a peace palace in The Hague, whi