fter Septem- ber 11, there was one extraordinary day in February 2003 when, with  HUMANE /12/ PROLOGUE the Iraq War looming, Americans joined nearly ten million protestors across the world in the most gargantuan moment of dissent against any war in history. A little more than a year later, the revelation of photographic mementos of torture at Abu Ghraib had a galvanizing effect, but it was a different one: the blemish of inhumanity was re- moved from a continuing war on terror. With high dudgeon on both sides, Americans had a torture de- bate. It diverted them from deliberating on the deeper choice they were making to ignore constraints on starting war in the first place. Some radioactive memos were torn up, others left on the books. News- papers covered the laws of war like never before, elevating experts on the subject as if they had a privileged relationship to morality and to policy, which are very different things. Reports issued from activists who shamed the United States for violating laws governing the fight, while the government's lawyers and soldiers interpreted the rules more permissively; the remarkable thing was the consensus all the parties shared that these were the rules that mattered. As for rules keeping the United States from embroilment in endless global violence in the first place, to say nothing of broader ethical and stra- tegic frameworks, they became casualties of "counterterror." Of course, there are many reasons for America's militarization of contemporary geopolitics, including the existence of real threats in a dangerous world, the move from conscripted to volunteer armed forces, and a Beltway expert "blob" and military procurement sys- tem that have both become self-perpetuating over the years. But the effort to reform conflict and make it more humane also had a role in this story, and that element requires attention precisely because such reform is always a good thing. It is easy to overlook it or down- play its coexistence with evil o