ng the Prussian siege and the no-holds-barred French suppression of the Commune a few months later-had had in mind. International lawyers, who emerged as a profession in the 1870s, accepted the sham and sometimes prettified it. In their sundry trea- tises, the new crew looked back to a mythologized prehistory that stretched from the ancient Greek Amphyctionic League to Hugo Grotius (the seventeenth-century Dutch theorist of the law of na- tions), foreseeing a civilized world order that agreed on a more hu- mane form of war until humanity became good enough to give up war once and for all. And, in a spirit that blended Christian reform and scientific pretension, they looked forward to days when partic- ular states, if they still existed, would obey a universal morality. The spokesmen for law could hazard mystical prognostications in this regard. "While the inert matter of the earth always loses its heat, and the expansive power of its interior fire diminishes," speculated Gustave Moynier, the Swiss Red Cross chief, "an inverse revolution occurs for its inhabitants, whose hearts are slowly learning to warm themselves, substituting care and kindness for that animosity and  HUMANE |84| | 85 | LAWS OF INHUMANITY egoism that once determined the relation of peoples." He was fooling himself: international law cajoled states only so far and no farther. Most international lawyers were not so much co-opted as strategic in presenting their field as high-minded while knowingly going along with the lower-minded agendas of states. They rejected pacifism out- right. If peace activists proposed relying on an international law of the future, international lawyers themselves knew such law devel- oped only with the consent of states, volunteering (as they still do) to try to bring about a better world through whatever compromises might be required. They knew that any regulation of war would re- quire military representatives in the room, and those representatives were likely to budge o