before decolonization multiplied its membership, the United States controlled the UN General Assembly. On October 7, the United States organized a General Assembly resolution to bless MacArthur's move north past the 38th parallel as a prelude to a dem- ocratic unification of Korea, and then proposed a further "uniting for peace" statement in a vain hope that dreams associated with the United Nations could somehow survive Cold War division. The res- olutions passed. But by U.S. design, the General Assembly, unlike the deadlocked Security Council, did not have powers to identify aggressors and organize collective security. It was like a teenager pretending her friends could give her permission to drive the family car, after her parents couldn't agree to let her-and then crashing it. MacArthur's fateful step was the first U.S. abuse of the rules of peace the country had laid down in 1945. It was not the last. The war that followed was anything but humane, and the laws of war-even the new ones-were largely irrelevant once again. The new Geneva Conventions were hot off the press and no involved state had ratified them in time. (The United States would do so in 1955.) Not only the United States but North and South Korea, too, prom- ised to observe the new provisions, or at least large parts of them. MacArthur informed the press that his "present instructions" were to abide by "the humanitarian principles" of the treaties. The former proconsul of Japan who had sponsored the Tokyo trials of Japanese war criminals warned "Reds" to follow the rules. For U.S. forces however, the war showed that what MacArthur meant was that "present instructions" were to be ignored or rendered inapplicable. In practice, it was another "Indian war." Truman had formally integrated the army two years before, and the United States was be- ginning to lift the Asian restrictions that defined its immigration policies. But racial egalitarianism was not yet central to American | 153 | identity, or to g