all the dead alive was what the latter sym- bolizes, by nipping the possibility of the coming war itself in the bud." In Lay Down Your Arms, even Martha's once-militaristic father converts to her pacifist cause on his deathbed. Unfortunately, even as she discovers and joins the cause of the "war on war" of the new peace associations of Europe, Martha's second husband perishes in the midst of the Franco-Prussian War in 1870, in spite of his attempt to steer clear of the fracas. When Lay Down Your Arms appeared in 1889, it set fin de siècle Europe and the United States on their ears. After selling more than 200,000 copies in German-speaking lands, more than a million cop- ies circulated in at least sixteen languages elsewhere. Before World War I, no document of Western civilization did more to turn what had been a crackpot and marginal call for an end to endless war into a mainstream cause. But it also helped that the cause itself was trans- forming, becoming more professional, realistic, and "scientific." THE MOVEMENT SURGED IN EUROPE DURING THE SLOW BREAKDOWN OF peace between the 1860s and the outbreak of World War I. The rea- son was the crystallization of a new sensibility that despised ex- posure to occasional wars in the midst of progress and plenty. The same nations whose populations were learning to demand a Euro- pean peace, of course, were at the height of an imperialist scramble to parcel out the world among themselves. States faced far less crit- icism at home when they committed violence on other continents, in perpetual counterinsurgent war to conquer new colonies or in the maintenance of ongoing overseas holdings. Still, the transatlan- tic expectation of peace among white people and Christians telling | 53 | themselves they shared a common "civilization" was nothing short of extraordinary. For the first time, the inevitability of war in human affairs was not taken for granted. Uncoordinated, new peace groups sprang up across the Atlantic, championing h