ly. When addressing Americans the year she became an international celebrity, she explained: "Although it is self-evident that everything that a woman writes must be written from a woman's standpoint, it does not agree with my principles to treat the problem of peace and war exclusively, or even principally, in  HUMANE 154| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS its relations to the feelings and lives of women." She added that, even when they did not fight, women were just as likely to glorify war as men. Others, however, were more forthright. The American Jane Addams and the Swede Ellen Key maintained it was not accidental that feminists were disproportionately pacifists and vice versa. It was in part to counteract the peace movement's nagging repu- tation for utopianism (and feminism) that making it seem "scientific" became crucial. Advocating political change in modest steps, the movement could hold out credible hope for the future. Alfred Fried. the German peace leader whom Suttner inspired, kept his distance from her hectoring and sentimentalism, insisting that the end of war was not so much a moral demand as an inexorable necessity. The Pol- ish financier Jan Bloch scored an international bestseller by combin- ing prognostication and research in his seven-volume The Future of War, popularized in 1899, which claimed that technological change made traditional battles obsolete, and therefore war was not worth fighting. (He specifically predicted that, if fought, war would merely devolve into trench stalemates.) And a good many peacemongers counted on economic interde- pendence alongside technology. Frédéric Passy, who shared the first Nobel for peace, was an economist by profession. War was no longer in any nation's economic or geopolitical self-interest, the English 1933 prizewinner Norman Angell claimed in his classic The Great Illusion (1909). It was precisely this reality, he contended, that could allow the case for peace to transcend the moral admonition that had faile