example of chattel slavery, charging that making it more humane had been a gross moral error. What if reformers humanized an institution they could and should have eradicated? Not that Tolstoy's outrage at human bondage was immediate. As a count and landowner, Tolstoy had enjoyed help from his 4,000-acre estate's serfs for decades. He had once commented in his diary, "It's true that slavery is an evil, but it is an extremely lovable one." But shortly after, during his military service, he read Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin, the bestseller of the nineteenth century (after the Bible). Soon Tolstoy-like Pierre Bezukhov in his greatest novel-was attempting to free his own serfs. In 1861, he helped ad- minister the abolition of serfdom in his home province, shortly before Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation called for an end to American slavery in the midst of the nation's Civil War. Tolstoy felt that slavery's transformation from inevitable to intol- erable provided lessons for targeting all human wrongs. Tolstoy never ceased likening things he did not like-including government itself- with chattel slavery. "Slavery has long been abolished. It was abolished in Rome, and in America, and in Russia, but what was abolished was  HUMANE | 38| THE WARNING the word and not the thing itself," he contended. "Where violence is legalized, there slavery exists." But in his activist phase, Tolstoy also referred much more specifically to the lessons that chattel slavery bore for the indictment of military violence. And his most explosive argu- ment was to suggest that the very same compromises that reformers countenanced before gathering to abolish the practice were now being trotted out to rationalize the endurance of war. Humane slavery? That had been a sham. The idea of humane war was, too. There had been a time, Tolstoy explained in a letter reported all around the world, when no one believed slavery could ever end. "Not only the ancient pagans, Plato and Arist