evented," asked Virginia Woolf rhetorically of the novelty that women had entered politics not merely as voters but as peace ac- tivists to be taken seriously. (Woolf conceded by 1938, in her acidly pacifist Three Guineas, that women would have to do a lot more than they once thought to change the world.) As a result, after World War I the peace activism of both main- stream elites and ordinary people exceeded in intensity and scale anything seen before. The seed planted by prewar activists blos- somed from scorched earth, their ragtag idealism making mass move- ments possible, forcing the hands of statesmen-or at least loosening their lips to pretend allegiance to peace. F. Scott Fitzgerald, in his first novel, This Side of Paradise (1920), captured how many read "a great smattering of Tolstoy" and combined it with "intense longing for a cause," which drove them "to preach peace as a subjective ideal." The success of antiwar literature left far behind Suttner's one-hit won- der and altered the artistic canon. If anything, it has become easy to overstate how universal revulsion toward war became. The devastat- ing skepticism of the English war poets Wilfred Owen and Siegfried Sassoon or the post-traumatic therapy A. A. Milne offered for his son in the stories of Winnie-the-pooh hardly ruled out the German officer Ernst Jünger's passionate glorification of the trench experience. Not that German-speakers had a monopoly on hypermilitarism. As Käthe Kollwitz's poignant woodcut representations of the costs of a culture of violence showed, their antiwar activism was sometimes the most authentic and moving. Erich Maria Remarque's later smash hit All Quiet on the Western Front (1929) unforgettably dramatized the human costs of World War I and cemented the case against militarism, though it by no means silenced clamor for another conflict. Milne's own pacifist bestseller Peace with Honour (1934) didn't either- | 67| especially since Milne, like so many other pacifists, was u