a humanitarian brigade could assist the medical services of European armies if and when they failed on their own. Of these notables, the most consequential was Gustave Moynier, who would prove in the long run far more important than Dunant for his long service, his pragmatic sensibility, and his distinctive moral vision. A Swiss lawyer, Moynier gruffly rejected the visionary idealism that annoyed him in Dunant and insisted on bringing mil- itaries themselves on board the humanitarian project. In doing so,  HUMANE | 26| THE WARNING he hoped for Christian virtue and humanitarian compassion to be advanced through state connivance in general and military consent in particular. He did not hesitate to affirm that making war humane would "advance God's reign on earth." Apparently, God would have to work in mysterious ways. From the start, General Guillaume Du- four, a Swiss war hero, was recruited to help brand and lead the humane war project. From the start, too, however, Moynier advertised his realistic movement as one that could fulfill the peace movement. Treating en- emies better, he hoped, might prove a stepping-stone to turning the other cheek. "We must leave to war all its horrors, as the only way to open the eyes of those who order it and those who pay the price," a Lyons doctor had complained of the Red Cross project of humanizing unnecessary evil. Moynier responded that such an objection, taken to an extreme, would imply the abolition of all army medical services. not merely the backup the Red Cross hoped to provide. And in any case, humanizing war might work better than the "sterile sentimen- talism" of the peace movement in revealing war's cruelties. True, Moynier later acknowledged grudgingly, the notion of "civ- ilized war" was "nonsense" and there was a hard core of immorality that would always remain even once humanization was done. "War without the spilling of blood would no longer be war," Moynier ad- mitted. Even if states played along, an essentially i