nvention, yet across northern France, they both disrespected it while charging that all the blame fell on the other side. When the American nurse Clara Barton and other humanitarians sought to ameliorate the suffering, they could not easily get their neutral rights respected by peasants in hot zones  HUMANE | 82| LAWS OF INHUMANITY who had never heard of international law, though Prussia's wounded received great care from its own Red Cross society. Worse was what happened to those left unprotected even on paper. The French citizens of Strasbourg held out for weeks under bombard- ment, earning for their trouble the allocation of their historic town to the new German empire formed under Prussian auspices. Hundreds died while cannons razed libraries, and the main cathedral-at the time, the tallest building in the world-was set on fire. Across the north of France, the Prussian armies encountered irregular and snip- ing enemies. After Paris fell, the city's National Guard refused to dis- arm, sparking an intermittent citizens' uprising that required several months and unparalleled violence to suppress. The Prussian Army was not happy about the disorder, though its efforts to contain it never became a full-scale anti-guerrilla war. The ex- traordinary siege of Paris in the fall and winter of 1870-71 killed up to fifty thousand noncombatants, many intentionally starved to death. It was one of the most extreme bouts of repression on the European continent in the nineteenth century, driving the city's inhabitants to eat even the elephants and kangaroos in the zoo (the hippo was spared only because butchers suspected that even starving Parisians would not stoop that low). But the violence was not over: no sooner had the siege ended and France surrendered than the Commune seized power in Paris, incubating radical democratic ideals as it faced down the gruff rejection of France's newest republic. In May 1871, when the French Army entered Paris amid pitched battles, thousands di