r has done her job well. In Kandahar Province, Afghanistan, the festivities are down- market in comparison but homey and sweet. The mothers of the betrothed assist in the preparation of local favorites: lamb kebabs, rice, and firni, a milk custard scented with rose water. Despite the differences in culture and in wealth, at both celebrations there is an abundance of family joy in the ritual affirmation of the life cycle and the tender love of the couples. The father of the bride in Connecticut, a corporate lawyer, has splurged on the latest in wedding videography, which includes fifteen  HUMANE 14 | PROLOGUE minutes of aerial feed from a drone. The guests at the Afghan wed- ding have become inured to a far more sophisticated form of the same technology buzzing high above their heads, but none of them sought it out or sent it. Those attending the wedding in Connecticut, almost all Americans with a few foreign friends, had more to do with the in- trusion. The reason is that one country, in an unprecedented era of interstate peace, has established a relationship of dominance over the other, reserving the right to kill even when it does not exercise it. War, far from disappearing, is transforming into such a relationship. Endless war has become part of the way Americans live now, on par with their Evites and online wedding registries. America's con- flicts abroad remain brutal and deadly, but what's frightening about them is not only the injury or fatality they inflict. It's true that, for several years, Afghan weddings all too often ended in a funeral. A scandalous number of civilian deaths occurred when American counterterrorist strategy took advantage of the fact that nuptials drew senior terrorists from hiding. One might presume that the Con- necticut wedding would make the New York Times Vows section. The death by drone of a terrorist at the wedding half a world away would appear on the front page. But now imagine that nobody dies at the Afghan ceremony, though the