reat required bellicosity. The techniques of pacifism did survive World War II, especially in anticolonial efforts around the world as well as in the American civil rights movement, thanks to the Dutch Reformed pacifist minister A. J. Muste, the "American Gandhi." But the pacifist cause itself has never lived down accusations that the "isolationism" to which it led was part of the problem-"objectively pro-fascist," as George Orwell described it in 1942. A genuine mass option during World War I, pacifism was far more marginal during World War II, and it met with even more massive public revulsion even so. Still, American intervention hardly connoted American empire. Activists and experts like Wright seeking to institutionalize peace through state agreement had achieved mainstream prominence due to World War I's costs. Now Wright hoped that World War II could lead to a breakthrough to an internationalist rather than an imperial peace. The meek might not inherit the earth. But it was by no means a foregone conclusion, Wright thought, that the war would bring about American empire instead of the workable system for world peace he had long sought. In 1939, in deep conversation with the Department of State's own planners, Wright cofounded the Commission to Study the Organiza- tion of the Peace, a private organization that threw itself into imag- ining a postwar world. Keeping hope alive, Wright still believed that the war would bring about a federalization of world affairs, es- pecially when it came to nixing the ability of states to disrupt the peace. Even before Pearl Harbor, he proposed that the new federal structure would have an executive, a legislature, and a judiciary. It would also need a police force (which Wright preferred calling a "peace force") that could nip war in the bud rather than merely intervene when it broke out. The most urgent need, once the United  HUMANE | 140| | 141| AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE States was finally in the war in 1941, was ke