he United States Army (of which the United States Air Force was formally part until  HUMANE | 132 | | 133 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE 1947). According to one 1922 manual, "The effect of bombing . . is generally very great upon the morale of an irregular enemy. The objective of irregular operations . . . may be the capital of the people, their main source of supply, their prominent leaders, or, if a fanati- cal people, the seat of their religion." General Billy Mitchell, father of the U.S. Air Force, propagandized for air power. He promised in 1925 that "it will cause a whole people to take an increasing interest as to whether a country shall go to war or not, because they are all exposed to attack by aircraft, no matter if they live in the remot- est interior of the country." Winning control of the air was the first imperative geopolitically and strategically. A willingness to bomb could guarantee that "if a nation ambitious for universal conquest gets off to a 'flying start' in a war of the future, it may be able to control the whole world more easily than a nation has controlled a continent in the past." Such exciting prospects, of course, were initially speculation. Air superiority promised relative immunity from harm for which- ever states achieved it, but airplanes were persistently inaccurate and not invulnerable (especially on the ground). Enduring worries about whether strategic bombing was worth the financial and moral costs were not banished until the success over Japan in 1944-45. And out- side the circles of enthusiasts, there was apprehension about what it would mean for those who might lose the contest for air supremacy. In 1937, the Japanese bombing of Nanking was overshadowed by Japanese atrocities on the ground: the massacre of tens of thou- sands of civilians, the execution of prisoners of war, and the mass rape of women. In a widely remarked event in May 1939, however, the Japanese air force rained terror on the improvised Chinese capital