ace were not giving up. Another popular idea was disarming states. If they retained carte blanche to conduct war, reducing their weaponry would at least make the consequences less cataclysmic. This was not the same as ruling out certain kinds of weapons because they caused excess suffering to sol- diers, as advocates of humane war had long argued. Instead, disarma- ment would place limits on otherwise legal weapons, or even reduce them, a proposal that was especially attractive to states that could not or did not want to spend on arms races-not least frightening naval buildups. The idea had failed before World War I, but Wright imme- diately volunteered to think through how disarmament would work now. Its promise continued for a decade-for some, to this day-but in spite of fervent advocates such as Albert Einstein, it failed again, most climactically at the General Disarmament Conference that dith- ered for two years after opening with high hopes in 1932. Even before then, a system of prohibiting war under international law remained the real chance Wright and others saw to improve on the League of Nations Covenant, in effect by strengthening the terms of the pact and undoing America's calamitous withdrawal. This goal was earnestly pursued by internationalists who inherited it from the prewar peace movements and the early transactions of states going through the motions. Arbitration remained a popular means to this end. But its credibility was dealt a grievous blow when the Geneva Protocol of 1924, which proposed to make it compulsory for all states, failed to win British acceptance. Wright was a fan of international arbitration, and he would spend the rest of his career looking for a functional equivalent to it. Before the frost of the late 1930s overtook them, however, various flowers had sprouted from its grave. Outside the League, in an in- strument negotiated among Europeans at the Swiss lake town of Lo- carno in 1925, Germany's border with its western neighbors