eath and damage but even combatant kill- ing and injury, the looming threat of something far more disquieting is also real. What if the elemental aim of endless war is not the death of enemy soldiers but rather the potentially nonviolent control of other peoples? Would that be tolerable? With such concerns in mind, Tolstoy insisted that the deepest evil in politics in general and war in particular is moral subjugation. A decade before his death, the tireless preacher issued a hortatory pamphlet called The Slavery of Our Times (1901), ambitiously broad- ening the notion to encompass all forms of domination. And as he wrote in Resurrection, the didactic novel of his postconversion years, if it is best to call it "murder" when "commanders of armies pride themselves on their victories," then perhaps the best way to think about "violence" is metaphorically, occurring when "those in high places vaunt their power" even when they inflict no pain. Brought to its logical conclusion, humane war may become increas- ingly safe for all concerned-which is also what makes it objectionable. Humane war is another version of the slavery of our times, and our task is to aim for a law that not only tolerates less pain but also promotes more freedom.  APPENDIX Making American War Humane, 1863- 1863: President Abraham Lincoln issues Army General Orders No. 100, written by the Columbia University professor Francis Lie- ber. Sometimes called the "Lieber Code," it bans excesses such as torture and recommends (though does not require) giving quarter to opponents who lay down their arms. The goal of the code, how- ever, is to make war not more humane but more intense, and it licenses no-holds-barred counterinsurgency. 1864: The first Geneva Convention codifies standards for treatment of the sick and wounded on the battlefield. European states negoti- ate the agreement and are the first to join, under the auspices of what becomes the International Committee for the Red Cross, founded by Swiss g