are observed, prove to be in- significant when compared with the devastation wrought by war." And they were generally not observed. "Law ought not to abdicate its function" in the face of the worry "that by devoting attention to the laws of war, we not only create an unjustified belief in the possi- bility or likelihood of their observance, but also deny by implication the reality of the renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy." But for the time being, international law could do little more than save face. No wonder that Wright and other American internationalists la- bored to the point of exhaustion to ensure that international law played some role in the final peace of World War II. He guarded the possibility even before World War II that, as one of his honored pre- decessors in the field had put it, "times in which international law has been seriously disregarded, have been followed by obligations in which the European conscience has done penance by putting it- self under straighter obligations than those which it before acknowl- edged." It would require organization and law to institutionalize that result. Based on the work of his long-running Committee to Study the Causes of Wars, it was complacent to assume that economic or technological progress would do the job on its own; if anything, the reverse was true. Outright pacifism almost died as a result of the coming of World War II. In Germany, it was one of Hitler's first targets. Carl von Os- sietzky, the renowned German pacifist, had been rounded up as a political threat after the Reichstag fire and sent to Spandau Prison before spending his last years in concentration camps (in spite of his 1935 Nobel Peace Prize). But after years of debate over appease- ment, most agreed that meeting Hitler's threat required bellicosity. The techniques of pacifism did survive World War II, especially in anticolonial efforts around the world as well as in the American civil rights movement, thanks to the Dutc