l, inhumane, and degrading treatment in all circum- stances, both within and outside the territory of states that ratify. The United States does so in 1994. 1990-91: The first Gulf War, ordered by President George H. W. Bush to repel the Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's aggression against Kuwait, becomes the first American war in which military lawyers assist in target selection, as well as the first international conflict that Human Rights Watch monitors for violations of the laws of war. 2001-2002: After attacks in Manhattan and Washington, D.C., the George W. Bush administration resolves-following memos by the lawyer John Choon Yoo-that Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions should not apply to Al-Qaeda terrorists. Yoo also pro- |331| poses to exclude fighters for the Taliban altogether from coverage under the laws of war. 2004: The U.S. Supreme Court decides Rasul v. Bush, which permits federal courts to entertain petitions for writs of habeas corpus from de- tainees at Guantánamo Bay, even as the Bush administration official Jack L. Goldsmith warns against reliance on some of Yoo's prior guidance. 2006: The U.S. Supreme Court decides Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, which finds that Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions (if not a more stringent standard) applies to the war on terror, and rules that the Bush administration's military commissions were therefore inadequate to try detainees. 2009: President Barack Obama's new administration formally re- scinds the Bush-era guidance on detention. It files a Memorandum Regarding the Government's Detention Authority Relative to De- tainees Held at Guantánamo Bay that classifies the war on terror as a "non-international armed conflict," mentioning no boundaries in time and space. That choice, without saying so, provided a framework for killing operations already under way and left opaque whether and what standards did apply to a globalizing war. 2011: After long study, the Obama administration concludes that what Hamdan v. Ru