ation.) There was little reflection on what it meant that inter- national law generally left war its old self or licensed new cruelties. It was true that many international lawyers understood them- selves, even when they worked as diplomats, to be speaking for an evolving civilization that transcended states. The lawyers did not  HUMANE | 86 | LAWS OF INHUMANITY disdain national sovereignty, but they assured themselves that an en- lightened public opinion spoke to and through their profession and went beyond the self-regarding dictates of merely local interests. The depressing truth was that Bluntschli and his European colleagues provided a new ethos for the law of war while barely humanizing its content. It courted progress at the risk of glorifying the law's inten- tions, while still serving the ends of states. Having received Moltke's reply, Bluntschli did not see the institute's further proposed reforms enacted. YET THE PROMISE OF HUMANE WAR REMAINED APPEALING ENOUGH THAT statesmen would offer it up as a consolation prize when their peace negotiations failed. Humane war was cast into the role of Plan B when statesmen needed image management. Suttner angrily concluded in 1907, after rounds of false promises, that so far there had been only "conferences for consolidating war." Her worst experience had been in 1899, when the bait-and-switch occurred in The Hague after Tsar Nicholas convened the self-styled civilized powers of the earth to seek peace. To introduce "the hu- manizing of war," Suttner recalled of her preparations for the event, was already "a wedge (surely not without purpose)" to divide and mislead before the delegates even gathered for the negotiations. As the conference went on, Suttner grew horrified. In a letter to Alfred Fried, Suttner dismissed humanizing war as a "trap that opens up in front of the feet of the pacifists," and "when the goal lies in the south, we should not pave the way to the north." It did not help that the admirals in attenda