n to the country's leading organ of international law. He was miffed that Wright had dared to criticize the French for their indis- criminate bombardment of Damascus, Syria, eighteen months ear- lier, in the midst of the "great revolt" against European rule under a League of Nations mandate there. Colby, whose son William later directed the Central Intelligence Agency, was perplexed that any- one could think foes who were not Christian or white deserved any protections under international law. It was "essentially a Christian doctrine," meaning that no limits applied to others, as the example of Richard the Lionheart showed. Though the pope himself had con- demned the use of the crossbow in Christian war, Richard "freely and unperturbedly" used it against "Saracens" during the Crusades. In modern times, Colby wrote in his immortally entitled "How to Fight Savage Tribes," custom showed that the disparity in forms of warfare still applied. Since its first use to pacify savages, Colby recalled, bombing served as "a more modernized and more effective version of prior British bombardments with field artillery against native Asian vil- lages, a casual type of incident against native tribes in the story of British colonial enterprise and mastery." Now it was time for Ameri- cans to follow suit, extending to the sky "the long list of Indian wars in which the troops of the United States have defended and pushed westwards the frontiers." And fortunately, there was no law to ignore, since Colby agreed that any military objective nearby placed cities "actually and geo- graphically, as well as legally, on the battlefield." It was well to learn from European imperial control that "to a fanatical savage, a bomb dropped out of the sky on the sacred temple of his omnipotent God is a sign and a symbol that that God has withdrawn his favor." Colby stressed that even those who made the category mistake of think- ing there were nonwhite innocents ought to buy in: "If a few 'non- combatan