ica's military operations have become more expansive in scope and perpetual in time by virtue of these very facts. And it is possible that this is only a stage in a continuing transition toward less and less brutality and death in wartime. To tell the story of humane American war is not to belittle or brush off its horrendous toll but to appreciate its full horror and future realities. In Afghanistan and Iraq, new scenes of American- perpetrated carnage-including captive abuse and civilian death- led to strong pushback. After the terror attacks of September 11, 2001, the laws constraining how war was fought became touchstones not just to America's activists, and not just to its armed services, but to broad audiences deliberating about the morality of the country's acts-most notably after the revelations of abuses up to and includ- |9| ing torture at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq and in the initially law-free zone of the Guantánamo Bay site. Suddenly everyone was talking about the Geneva Conventions, giving the laws calling for humanity in war a political and public significance they had never had in any country or era. As much as any other factor, that pushback drove a profound transformation of how the United States fights. Today, the country takes almost no prisoners and relies on the more regulated violence of missiles from the sky or on the Special Forces, with few boots on the ground. The gore and mortality of America's initial modes of intervention after September 11 have, to a remarkable extent, been removed, like bugs that programmers delete as they learn from experience. If there is a moral problem with this result, it lies in the residual violence America's new form of war still inflicts-and also in the nor- malization of humane control itself. We can hold out the occasional possibility that war emancipates and liberates while still worrying that America's recent wars fail to achieve success while leading to less freedom than subjugation, and in a chilling