re of immorality that would always remain even once humanization was done. "War without the spilling of blood would no longer be war," Moynier ad- mitted. Even if states played along, an essentially inhumane activity could be taken only so far in a humane direction. But, he insisted, this hardly implied that the goal was not worth pursuing. Called to Geneva by Dunant, Moynier, and their colleagues, rep- resentatives of twelve European states met twice, in 1863 and 1864, and agreed to a first set of treaty rules for war. The treaty protected brigades of caregivers as neutrals in future conflicts. It would take a long time to be carried out, but the treaty eked out a bit of room for international legal obligation and humane treatment in the bru- tal activity of war. (It portended things to come long after-not for nothing would the U.S. president Barack Obama offer a shout-out to Dunant in his Nobel Peace Prize address in 2009.) | 27| In the short term, no one would have predicted the canonization of Dunant or the prestige of his project. Within three years of the Geneva treaty, in the midst of a bank failure due in part to Genevan investments in Algeria that a not very competent Dunant had ar- ranged, he was forced out of his outfit. After disappearing, he was presumed dead. Decades later, expelled by Moynier from the orga- nization he helped inspire and living modestly in a senior center in the picturesque resort town of Heiden near Lake Constance, Dunant was rediscovered by a passing journalist. An elderly man recalled to life for a few years of celebrity, he became the poster senior of a project that had accelerated in the prior decades. With earlier life recrafted hagiographically and his 1901 Nobel Prize reported across the world, Dunant now assumed the appearance of a white-bearded guru, much like the greatest critic of the humanizing enterprise he had helped launch. IT WOULD TAKE TOLSTOY SOME TIME TO SOUND THE ALARM THAT HU- manitarianism could entrench war. On