t someday become humane and precise. At The Hague, the U.S. delegate and army captain William Crozier, with a record of fight- ing the Sioux after graduating from West Point, had anticipated this development, with the prospect of dirigible balloons in mind. He foresaw that air power would eventually allow for "localizing at impor- tant points the destruction of life and property and [permit] sparing the sufferings of all who are not at the precise spot where the result is decided." The immediate question for those tinkering with the rules of war was how-and against whom-air power was to be used in its orig- inally indiscriminate form. Since the introduction of the Zeppelin in 1900 made dirigible ballooning more plausible, the same consensus did not exist to ban aerial bombardment at the next Hague confer- ence in 1907, though a majority supported another temporary ban. Never again did international law specifically prohibit it. The rules updated at The Hague in 1907 did exclude "bombard- ment" of "undefended" towns "by whatever means." But in prac- tice, this modification ruled out very little. It all depended what "undefended" meant. Meeting at Oxford in the halcyon summer of 1913, some urged reading this provision as "not being defended in fact" rather than "capable of being defended in theory," to restrict aerial wrath to towns fighting back. But these progressive voices were drowned out. Lawyers wrangling the rules for states reasoned that the small payload of airplanes compensated for their impre- cision. Aerial bombing, they reasoned, would not necessarily be more brutal than accepted conduct like the famously cruel daylong British shelling of Alexandria in 1882, amid a nationalist uprising against the ruling Egyptian khedive (a European client). Across the Atlantic, peace activists mobilized against the prospect of weapons being released with high-altitude immunity and causing indiscriminate carnage. In 1911, Italy dropped the first bombs from airplanes, on A