rrible four years of death, what had been a marginal agenda became central to national life everywhere and global diplomacy forever, beyond the wildest dreams of earlier generations of activists. Ironically, in other words, the very failure of the peace movement to stave off World War I created the conditions for its eventual suc- cess. Many more European survivors of war, especially the victims of its worst depredations, were now ready to demand peace from their states. The overthrow of the Russian Empire and the birth of the So- viet Union portended a new equation. America's entry into the war in 1917 in the name of what Wilson gravely called "peace without victory" did so even more. Even during the war, peace agitation occurred. Forlorn socialists of every nation, in the minority within their own movement, indicted the patriotic response to the call to arms-and were normally thrown in jail for their trouble, from Eugene Debs in the United States to Rosa Luxemburg in Germany. As in no war before, war resistance became rife across the Atlantic, far transcending minor religious sects and calling down the repressive tactics of states newly empowered by war itself. Women were once again frequent leaders. The founding of what became the Women's International League for Peace and Free- dom, with its own conference in The Hague in 1915, epitomized the leading women's role in groups of all descriptions.  HUMANE | 66| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS In her classic War, Peace, and the Future (1916), Ellen Key, the Swedish feminist, insisted that the cries of so many sons in their bat- tlefield death throes-"Mother! Mother!"-showed that the time had come for women to wean the world from male nationalism. "When before has an educated man asked a woman how in her opinion war can be prevented," asked Virginia Woolf rhetorically of the novelty that women had entered politics not merely as voters but as peace ac- tivists to be taken seriously. (Woolf conceded by 1938, in her acidly p