ly as an emissary of peace but also as one who had always aimed to achieve it rather than humane war instead.  HUMANE |90| | 91| LAWS OF INHUMANITY Though Dunant had been interested in proposals to set up interna- tional arbitration as an alternative to war for some time, her brow- beating drove him to openly embrace the goal of peace. Dunant pretended retroactively that his call for humane war had been issued to "instill" in people "a sacred horror of war in order to make them into friends of peace." With enough to go on, Suttner ad- vertised to any takers his assurance that he did not want to be remem- bered as an advocate of endless if humane war if there was a chance of peace. "Dunant has been honored chiefly as a friend of peace and not for the Red Cross," she assured one intimate, "and I will give the world proof of this." It is "something the world at large does not know" Suttner wrote, conceding almost grudgingly the exclusive reason for Dunant's fame. (Dunant's commitment to peace was something "the Nobel committee may have known," she added wishfully.) Defenders of humanizing war increasingly insisted, like Dunant in 1901, that from the beginning the whole point of their enterprise had been peace. In the opening speech to the Red Cross's annual international conference, held in the United States for the first time in 1910, Secretary of State Elihu Root insisted that its humanitarian vocation should never limit itself to managing war or picking up the pieces after. It would bring peace someday. "I believe there has been a feeling in the United States for many years that, although the aim of the Red Cross was to lessen the horrors of war and to alleviate suffering, its ideal was necessarily antagonistic to the idea of war; the programs of the Red Cross, its powerful organization, its compas- sion, its love of others, would not cease to turn men from the spirit and revenge and cruelty which causes war." Humanitarians connived with and played on the hopes of p