served in explaining why Nuremberg slighted such cruelty, in- cluding European Jewry's destruction. "Of these two challenges," he asked rhetorically, "who will deny that the larger offense is the unjustified initiation of a war?" If you criminalized and stigmatized war, you made it less likely for crimes in war to occur. As the history of our time shows, the reverse is not true: you can make war humane, while war continues. But it made no sense to those in the 1940s that war ought to be cleansed of its crimes; it was the crime. Home from Nuremberg, Wright definitely agreed it had been a good thing to rank aggression the premier evil. In effect, it was an auspicious sign for a federation to come that there was so much agreement to try individuals for war after the fact-as the Allies did in Tokyo for Japanese perpetrators, too. "Sanctions to be effective must operate on individuals rather than states," Wright ex- plained. "International law cannot survive in the shrinking world, threatened by military instruments of increasing destructiveness, if sanctioned only by the good faith and self-help of governments." Many war crimes were punished at Nuremberg, in later trials in the occupation zones of Germany, and in the successor trial that was held in Tokyo for Asian crimes. "Crimes against humanity," the term introduced into international law on an August day in London in 1945 between the obliteration of Hiroshima and that of Naga- saki, concerned killing civilians. But at Nuremberg and Tokyo, the charge was only allowed in connection with the primary infraction of aggressive war, which Americans were sure they did not fight. As for aerial bombardment, all powers had conducted it, and no one was punished. THE MAIN QUESTION FOR THE FUTURE WAS WHETHER THE PRINCIPLES espoused at Nuremberg would extend to all war, and therefore which wars-and which American wars-would be deemed ille- gal. Jackson had insisted that the new regime for punishing aggres- sive war had to be unive