ternational law, envisioning new bilateral and multilateral treaties. Sumner, to take only one example, proposed the use of international law to banish war. Tolstoy was to be more skep- tical that states could voluntarily agree to get along-and his skepti- cism only increased when they promised to fight their wars with one another humanely. IF THE ATTEMPT TO END WAR WAS INSPIRED AT FIRST BY ESCHATO- logical visions, the effort to humanize it had another point of departure-a Christianity of good works, which evolved into a sec- ular enlightenment ethic of identifying with the pain of others. By the Enlightenment, the use of investigative torture to ferret out the truth from suspects and harsh punishment once they were deemed guilty may already have been on the wane. The rise of sentimen- tal ethics singling out bodily violation as among the most offensive evils drove campaigns against both, and made an important contri- bution to the rise of antislavery ideology, too. By the mid-nineteenth century, the German philosopher Fried- rich Nietzsche could complain that what "civilization" now meant | 23 | was the treatment of physical cruelty as the worst evil, with pain regarded as ever more hurtful, and torture an especially taboo in- fraction. ("We tremble even at the very thought of torture being inflicted on a man or an animal and we undergo unspeakable mis- ery when we hear of such acts," Nietzsche commented dismissively.) The effort to abolish or diminish physical pain swept the agenda of social reform, touching practically all areas of life and law, from the criminal process to industrial policy, to medical care. The surprise, perhaps, is how long it took reformers to add making war specifi- cally humane to their agenda. Still, as the post-Napoleonic European peace began to disintegrate in stages after 1850, proposals accumu- lated with a vengeance. Overwhelmingly, the leading early cause was the mistreatment of soldiers, especially when they were wounded on the bat