as nothing short of extraordinary. For the first time, the inevitability of war in human affairs was not taken for granted. Uncoordinated, new peace groups sprang up across the Atlantic, championing hardheaded approaches to the horror of war. Unlike some earlier Christian preachers of nonresistance, most peace advo- cates conceded the legitimacy of defensive war. Their focus was on devising realistic solutions that would control all the wars that were aggressive in intent, unnecessary for safety, terrible for soldiers, and wasteful of treasure. They were galvanized by an unprecedented burst of women's activism and new strategies of international mo- bilization. The Interparliamentary Union brought together elected representatives across borders. It, in turn, was dwarfed by the pro- fusion of other nongovernmental organizations, both religious and secular, which the ideal of peace brought into existence like no cause before human rights a century later. After conference upon in- ternational conference, by the outbreak of World War I, the groups counted more than a million members. With Suttner as its most famous propagandist, peace was com- monly cast as a feminine agenda. In fact, men led all the peace asso- ciations and groups that were not exclusively for women-and the delay in Suttner's Nobel Prize was almost certainly due to the fact that she was a woman. One German militarist dismissed the Ger- man Peace Society as "a comical sewing bee composed of sentimen- tal aunts of both sexes," and jibes about "bluestockings," educated women who strove for public and not merely private virtue, were common everywhere. Suttner herself denied that peace was specifically a women's cause. "There is no reason to expect women as such to care about the peace movement," she wrote curtly. When addressing Americans the year she became an international celebrity, she explained: "Although it is self-evident that everything that a woman writes must be written from a woman's standpoint,