r. For Americans in the Pacific race war, it was universal to ignore, or treat as unreal, whatever limitations in warfare may have existed. It was "Indian country" all over again. Freely indicting their enemy as a race, and persecuting their fellow citizens of Japanese descent, Americans normally exempted the German people from opprobrium for Nazi crimes against non-Jews and continued to look down on Adolf Hitler's chief racial victims. Both in and beyond the air war, the ambiance for the conduct of hostilities was very different in the Pacific theater. It wasn't "fair" to suggest that the Japanese de- served the fate of ancestral native foes at home, The New York Times Magazine commented. They had earned worse, for sometimes their corpses were armed to explode, a risk that rangers in the West had never confronted. "Even a dead Jap isn't a good Jap" accorded a posthumous virtue to onetime indigenous foes. Whether or not In- dians were better than Japanese, traditions of exterminatory warfare honed to deal with the former were adaptable to the latter. On August 10, 1945, two days after Nagasaki, the government of the Japanese empire, through the intermediation of Switzerland, protested the American holocaust. "The use of atomic bombs . . . surpasses the indiscriminate cruelty of any other existing weapons and projectiles," it insisted, citing the Hague rule against "arms, pro- jectiles, or material calculated to cause unnecessary suffering." Legal principle was (and largely remains) too vague to prohibit nuclear weapons, and Japan was not in a good position to invoke it. Five days later, Japan surrendered. The Americans never wrote back. THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY FACT ABOUT THE AFTERMATH OF WORLD War II is that anyone thought they could piece back together again the dreams of a peaceful world or a more humane war. The Axis had smashed the first and both sides had done grievous harm to the second. As in World War I, the Red Cross got good press and a second Nobel Prize (