ore the Geneva Protocol arbitration project went south, Wright knew it was going to be hard to federalize power to back up words. But there was no alternative, since "the hopelessness of outlaw- ing war by treaties alone becomes evident when we consider that a large proportion of war has been begun contrary to the terms of some treaty of 'perpetual peace and amity." The most famed of the peacemongers' efforts was the Kellogg- Briand Pact of 1928. Named after Frank Kellogg and Aristide Bri- and, respectively the American secretary of state and the French prime minister who proposed it, the treaty was negotiated quickly, in the mid-1920s era of good feeling on the European scene fol- lowing Locarno. "The High Contracting Parties solemnly declare," states its first article, "that they condemn recourse to war for the solution of international controversies, and renounce it, as an in- strument of national policy in their relations with one another." But there was no enforcement provision: the treaty contemplated the pacific resolution of disputes, though to do so was like saying  HUMANE 1741 BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS eating too much food is illegal, then gesturing to the fact that peo- ple will need to figure out how to stick to their diets. To placate public opinion demanding no recurrence of World War I, states scrambled to affirm in the name of eternal peace ap- proximately the same obligations they had accepted at The Hague decades before in the form of voluntary arbitration. As one astute observer insisted, the Kellogg-Briand Pact "does not outlaw war but approves it," for anyone who had eyes to see, for states conditioned their acceptance of the treaty on exceptions, far beyond the claim to self-defense that still permits force today. Wright and others who saw beyond the hype understood that the treaty's true meaning was not the immediate victory of peace. Instead, it anticipated the par- amount responsibility of the United States in advancing that cause. "The hi