ed better in perception or practice as the war dragged on, it was because the constraints on its sea power were much less robust: the British Empire had made sure of it. International law such as it was permitted the most gross moral wrongdoing of the period, besides the Armenian genocide: the British blockade of the Continent, which caused half a million civilian deaths through starvation. Not that the Red Cross got bad press. It won its first Nobel Peace Prize in 1917 for its noble practice of keeping prisoners of war in touch with their families, even though it wasn't until 1929 that states | 117 | agreed on a new Geneva Convention. Where the first convention governed care for the wounded, this one added rules for the humane treatment of detained soldiers. Where the rules failed profoundly was the fighting itself. The Armenians were driven to slaughter, and the eastern front was a nearly ungoverned zone where the Hague rules went almost entirely disregarded. Even on the trench-ridden western front, atrocities anticipating World War II's excesses, from camps to rapes to reprisals, have barely begun to have their stories told. The category of "civilian" offered little protection; a civilian could be defined as a kind of victim in waiting, in part because the formal rules did precious little to protect him or (usually) her. Even so, humane war did not inspire the civic activism and moral consensus that ending war did in the era around the turn of the twentieth century. With new insight into the death drive that no law could eliminate, the psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud was blunt about the futility of humanization. In 1915, when World War I was only in its second year, he wrote: "Not only is it more bloody and destructive than any war of other days, [but] it is at least as cruel, as embittered, as implacable as any that has preceded it. It disregards all the restric- tions known as International Law, which in peace-time the states had bound themselves to observe." "It i