a of humane war was, too. There had been a time, Tolstoy explained in a letter reported all around the world, when no one believed slavery could ever end. "Not only the ancient pagans, Plato and Aristotle, but the men near- est to us in time and Christian, were not able to conceive of man- kind as existing without slavery," he reported (accurately). Once the extraordinary possibility of an emancipated society had been glimpsed, a great many nonetheless concluded that the enormity of slaveholding made it ineradicable after all, or that its end was distant and speculative. If so, why not deal with its cruelty for as long as it lasted? That dreadful mistake, Tolstoy cautioned, was now being repeated with war, too. Under the headline "Tolstoi Writes of War, Says It Must Follow Slavery and Disappear," The New York Times reported his message: "The partisans of error then pretend to understand the enormity and the cruelty of the system they de- fend . . . [but] declare that for the present its destruction is impossi- ble." Humanizing looked like a horrendous mistake when it came to chattel slavery in the past. Why not save ourselves from repeating the error when it comes to war in the present? Tolstoy's example is exceptionally interesting. For a long time, the cause of reform, when it came to chattel slavery across the Atlantic, tended in the direction of humanizing it, a project that coexisted comfortably with the strengthening of plantation discipline. Organiz- ing movements and framing laws, reformers did not challenge prop- erty rights in slaves so much as attempt to ameliorate their treatment. If not human liberty, then humane treatment was what the humanity of slaves required. The choice was not entirely new at the turn of |39| the nineteenth century. In the French and Spanish empires, often in the name of "Christian justice," legal codes constrained what masters could do with their human property, without challenging their right to it. But in the 1790s, and especia