hose peoples considered "uncivilized" were beyond the pale of the protection of the rules by their very sponsors. A rare exception to such patterns, the Swiss international law- yer Joseph Hornung proved the rule. In the 1880s, he urged his col- leagues to save international law from its hypocritical restriction to Christians and white people, which was making "selfish interest and, too often, unmitigated violence" the global norm. The world's bar- barians and savages were "children," Hornung acknowledged, in a paternalist streak, but children needed to be treated with care. "We burn their poor towns, we chop their trees down, and we massacre their women ... Is that the best way to make them love civilization?" It may have been a rhetorical question, but for a long time it received no answer. Moynier spent most of his working life trying from Geneva to make war Christian and humane. But on the side, he supported Eu- ropean imperialism in general and worked on behalf of Leopold II's notorious Congo adventure in particular. In 1879, Moynier founded a newsletter for the imperial project, L'Afrique explorée et civilisée (Africa Explored and Civilized), which made the case for Leopold's potential role as votary of civilized values. After the Berlin Confer- ence of 1884-85, which parceled Africa out among the great powers, and gave Leopold the vast territory of the Congo, Moynier served as the Belgian king's representative in Switzerland. Moynier expressed the hope that both Europeans and their wards abroad were finally ready for progress. "The men of the white race, after having hated and cruelly exploited men of the Black race for centuries, refusing to see them as their fellow human beings, have now come to their senses," Moynier reported. To begin with, white people could and must end the slave trade among Black people. Unlike the usual impe- rial enterprises, in which the national interest inevitably got mixed up with the "tutelary" one, Leopold's personal rubber col