ugh the experiences of its characters. Martha, the narrator and protagonist, long shares the "dark and awful conception which the majority of mankind have of war." Before her enlightenment, how- ever, it was as if the clash of what is "really two masses of men who are rushing to fight each other" were someone else's doing, with re- sponsibility for the butchery "lying beyond the will of individuals." After a war, there were always recriminations about its conse- quences. But when it started, the haze of militarism, pride, and vir- tue obscured the possibility of moral choice or even awareness that, in the end, you could lose. "The mere mention of a shadow of a doubt" when it comes to war "is in itself unpatriotic," and when Martha casts one in public discussion before her husband marches to his death, she is "ignominiously hissed down." But what is her alternative? When she volunteers for "Patriotic Aid" to minister to Austrian troops, she feels a certain virtue herself. After all, there is no better course than to make the inevitable less disastrous. It makes no more sense to talk of the end of war than of "the abolition of earthquakes." Remarried to a cerebral and compassionate aristocrat, whom | 51| Suttner modeled on her own husband, Martha is not above snide wit as they live together through the wars to come. On hearing that the cure for depression is "a jolly rattling war" but that "the peace threatens to last as far as we can see," she replied that it is "an ex- traordinary collocation of words" to equate war with happiness and peace with disturbance. The couple's most convincing answer to militarism is to insist that progress has meant a new sensibility. When her father says his ardor for killing has never cooled, Martha's husband remarks that he goes to war "not with pleasure, but with resignation." In the father's gen- eration, "the warlike spirit is livelier than in ours," and lacked "the feeling of humanity, which is zealous for the abolition of all mise