rement that self-defense requires a looming threat. Sim- ilarly, invocation of the domestic law's prohibition of "assassination" stretched back to revelations of U.S. Cold War malfeasance. Such talk, too, had never really happened due to prior drone activity, except when a U.S. citizen had been terminated. The debate was brief and evanescent. Yet it hinted that recovery from America's embrace of a growing syndrome might be possible. It mattered for the first time since Vietnam that the country's wars are lawless, even if they are now more humane. The aftermath of the Soleimani killing also proved, however, that when a country  HUMANE | 316 | EPILOGUE is caught in the depths of a syndrome, recovery can be very dif- ficult to achieve. More bipartisan consensus crystallized than in previous decades that there actually were (or at least ought to be) limits in American war-making. In the aftermath, for the first time since Vietnam, the House and Senate passed a resolution limiting future interventions by the president, though not with enough votes to survive a veto. One reason for the resolution was that Trump's brazen act threatened major war. But it was hard not to conclude that the deepest reason for concern and denunciation this time was that the president who had ordered the hit was so far outside the mainstream. The attack on the killing stigmatized the president, but only time will tell if it will lead to meaningful reform, especially now that Joe Biden's election victory has restored "normalcy." And it was equally significant that the debate over the legality and wisdom of the strike was nearly swamped by the horror and rage around Trump's dra- matic talk and empty promise of bombing cultural sites in Iran in blatant violation of the 1954 and 1972 treaties protecting them. "We will follow the laws of armed conflict," Trump's defense secretary reassured an anxious world within days-without agreeing that the U.S. execution of Soleimani had broken the law forbidding