of a peaceful world or a more humane war. The Axis had smashed the first and both sides had done grievous harm to the second. As in World War I, the Red Cross got good press and a second Nobel Prize (in 1944) for monitoring prisoners of war. The organization's wholesale failure on the Eastern Front, where Nazis executed upward of three million captured Soviet soldiers, and its even deeper failure to respond to European Jewry's destruction- scandalously, its leader Carl Jacob Burckhardt harbored sympathies for the Nazis out of his greater fear of communism-have become common knowledge only in the decades since. But if anything, these tragedies masked a much more compre- hensive and significant catastrophe for the project of humane war, which was the failure of the law to make the conflict less cruel for anyone. Strategic bombing alone, in Western Europe and over Ja- pan, accounted for millions of civilian deaths. The lesson was not that total and totalizing wars were uniquely immune to humane reg- ulation. It was never clear that the laws of war were more effective  HUMANE | 138| | 139 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE in the case of limited strife, and it was precisely unlimited carnage that most required their application and respect. Clearly, the circum- stances for taking the dictates of humane war seriously, even among the conventional forces of transatlantic armies, were going to be a long time coming. In part the reason was that the laws of war had had no priority after World War I. Even as World War II began to loom, few put much stock in the revival of those laws after their embarrassing ir- relevance the last time around. Even Hersch Lauterpacht, a Galician Jew who became a Cambridge don, could acknowledge in 1935 that "rules of moderation may, even if they are observed, prove to be in- significant when compared with the devastation wrought by war." And they were generally not observed. "Law ought not to abdicate its function" in the face of the worry "t