were trying to close. By the 1920s, Americans who had refused to join the League itself were willing to join in hallowing European peace rhetorically. The outlawry of war became completely mainstream for Americans. It was endorsed by Calvin Coolidge in accepting the Re- publican Party nomination for 1924 and figured in the Democratic Party platform the same year. William Borah, a Republican senator from Idaho who offended some by wearing a ten-gallon hat around Washington, D.C., had been one of the "Irreconcilables" at the end of World War I, keep- ing the country from joining the League of Nations. He became a "crusader" for the outlawry of war five years later without missing a beat-even before the Kellogg-Briand Pact-and he saw no con- tradiction in doing so. The League peace had committed the United States to something far worse than a defensive pact with any partic- ular ally. It entangled his country in obligations to an international organization, potentially to keep global peace. As Borah saw it, the Kellogg-Briand Pact, by contrast, merely involved the obligation to abstain from war. No wonder that Borah loved outlawry, understood in these terms. At best, Kellogg-Briand could keep Europeans from descending into their own strife; at worst, it made no more difficult America's project of keeping itself from being sucked into it again at all costs. Wright knew the hard part was going to be inciting Americans to interpret the commitment they had now made in his way rather than Borah's. When an aggressor rose anywhere, Wright wrote, it violated the rights of the United States under treaty no matter what the country chose to do about it. No uninvolved bystander any- more, America was an injured party. "Wars of aggression," Wright explained in 1930, "are no longer moral offenses against the victim  HUMANE 1761 |7| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS alone, but legal offenses against every state party to these multilat- eral treaties." The only question remaining in the fac