nds of civilians, the execution of prisoners of war, and the mass rape of women. In a widely remarked event in May 1939, however, the Japanese air force rained terror on the improvised Chinese capital of Chongqing, setting off a wave of anxiety and nausea worldwide about the coming war. Madame Chiang Kai-shek's heartrending report from the scene vividly depicted the "raging infernos" leaving the sky "crimson with fire and, indeed, with the blood of thousands of vic- tims" as "mothers watched their children burn alive." Only European bombing, however, provoked a last-ditch insis- tence on the need for humane legal constraint on the practice. On September 1, 1939, with World War II on and the Luftwaffe bomb- ing Warsaw, Franklin Roosevelt publicly condemned the "ruthless bombing from the air of civilians in unfortified centers of popula- tion" that "shocked the conscience of humanity." "If resort is had to this form of inhuman barbarism during the period of the tragic conflagration with which the world is now confronted," he added, "hundreds of thousands of innocent human beings . . . will lose their lives." He pled to "every government" to affirm that "in no event, and under no circumstances" would any power bomb civilians or "unfortified cities." The "rules of warfare" prohibited it, Roosevelt insisted, repeating his plea two months later with the Winter War in Finland under way and the Soviets pounding Helsinki from the sky. If Roosevelt knew that his own air forces had long since determined that there were no unfortified cities-and that the morale of popula- tions counted as a fair target-he did not mention it. Americans in the European theater mainly flew daytime targeted sorties, while the Royal Air Force bombed areas and destroyed German cities by night throughout 1942 and 1943. The American Curtis Le- May, a major in the European theater in 1942 who piloted dangerous missions himself, strove to make bombing more precise there-though the Americans and the Briti