better world through whatever compromises might be required. They knew that any regulation of war would re- quire military representatives in the room, and those representatives were likely to budge only in small steps, counting on rising civilian militarism to overcome any public wish that war become less cruel. For decades, talk of "humanity" could not conceal the churn of ide- ologies of military force. Moynier put the best face he could on the dispiriting situation. He hoped the Geneva Convention, in spite of its original restriction to a narrow cause of wounded soldiers, would open the door to "a general codification of war law." And there was much opportunity to generate law that militaries and states would embrace. A great deal of it simply could make more formal customs of war that mil- itaries already respected, at least in normal circumstances (such as good-enough treatment of one another's prisoners of war). It could also ban weaponry they were happy to relinquish if there were cred- ible guarantees their potential foes would do the same, or if technol- ogy had already evolved beyond the means of war in question. In exchange for their blunted idealism, international lawyers got no love from the warrior class. In 1880, the leading European inter- national lawyer Johann Caspar Bluntschli wrote to the longtime chief of the Prussian General Staff, the field marshal and Reichstag member Count Helmuth von Moltke, architect of victory in 1870-71 and at the time the most famous soldier in the world. Bluntschli showed Moltke the law-of-war manual that the new Institute of International Law had devised and planned to propose for adoption by states. In a notorious response that scandalized pacifists everywhere, Moltke curtly dismissed any attempt to eliminate war legally. "Eternal peace is a dream-and hardly a beautiful one," he said. Indeed, "war is part of the world order that God ordained." Regular violence was the font of virtue for males, without which humanity