ltantly put it when he came out for the cause in 1904. Alongside his American peace projects, Carnegie gave the enormous sum of $1.5 million-$50 million today-to build a peace palace in The Hague, which opened ten years later and still hosts the Permanent Court of Arbitration as well as other internationalist enterprises. He even offered Suttner a pension to the end of her days. U.S. politicians were more authentic and more outspoken in press- ing the peace agenda than politicians elsewhere. In between his sec- ond failed presidential campaign in 1900 and his third failed attempt in 1908, the peace advocate and Democratic Party politician William Jennings Bryan took the time to visit Tolstoy on his Russian estate. He became a Tolstoy nut, hanging a picture of the Russian sage in his home and proselytizing his message. Bryan didn't stave off U.S. entry into World War I (in spite of trying). But from the earliest days of his stint as President Woodrow Wilson's secretary of state in 1913-15. he concluded no fewer than thirty arbitration treaties between the United States and other countries, including the United Kingdom. As the Senate ratified treaty after treaty, Bryan distributed as souvenirs paperweights that had been created from War Department swords beaten into plowshares, inscribed with biblical peace promises. Not- withstanding the tsar's good press for calling the peace conference in The Hague, no comparable politician ever emerged from Europe nor ascended so high. A YOUNG AMERICAN NAMED QUINCY WRIGHT WAS DETERMINED TO BE part of the American peace right away. A bespectacled political sci- entist with black hair parted in the center, Wright had a vision. When it came to him in 1917 as his country entered World War I, it inspired his lifetime task, which he never relinquished. From his decades-long perch at the University of Chicago, he picked up Sutt- ner's baton and attended a lot of conferences, too. He was the Zelig of American internationalists between Wor