nizing war as a "trap that opens up in front of the feet of the pacifists," and "when the goal lies in the south, we should not pave the way to the north." It did not help that the admirals in attendance who championed the rise of sea power ridiculed the prospect of regulating war. The American advocate of naval supremacy Alfred Thayer Mahan de- rided not just the conference's first goal of eternal peace but also the second, of humane war. Britain's naval leader, First Sea Lord John Ar- buthnot Fisher, happily assured the diplomats in the room who were going through the motions of imposing constraints on fighting that it was a fool's errand. Like Carl von Clausewitz before him, Fisher . | 87| insisted that those who cared about peace should not constrain but unshackle their forces, for "moderation in war is imbecility." As his biographer explained, Fisher "grasped firmly and ruthlessly tore off the virginal garments in which idealists had wrapped the vile hag of war and exposed her true loathsomeness." But his supposed ha- tred of war led him to insist on raising its stakes to the maximum extent-up to and including the worst depredations of civilians-so that conflict would not break out in the first place. "Torture the women and children, and then people will keep clear of you!" he remarked. And even if it was undesirable, humane war was impos- sible, Fisher concluded. "The humanizing of War!" he declared at The Hague to the horror of fellow delegates. "You might as well talk about humanizing Hell!" With the original conference goal of peace off the table, the dele- gates pretended to humanize hell to save face. Suttner wasn't buying it. Insisting on giving peace a chance, she flew into a rage. Suttner immediately warned Dunant. In "the hands of the retrograde," she explained, his whole idea of humane war was now serving as a con- solation prize and functioning as a moral compromise. "All the mil- itary men, diplomats, and government officials, who do not want to he