g domestic peace, nevertheless, states also use coercive methods," Wright explained in 1925. The only solution was to establish enough governance inter- nationally to define wrongdoing and police it-just as states did at home. Audaciously, Wright started his intellectual activism with a bow toward the outlawry project's new popularity: he insisted that war was already illegal quite apart from the new attempt to suppress it once and for all. The idea that states still had a legal right to use force beyond their borders, including the settlement of disputes, was already old-fashioned, he boldly suggested in 1924. "There has apparently been a tendency," he explained, "to assume" that | 73 | "war is lawful," merely because states accepted some rules applying once war broke out. But that didn't follow. You might need a new law to save victims from an already unlawful practice. All that was re- quired now, really, was to make more explicit and formal what most lawyers already believed, and legally institutionalize a system for policing those states that broke the prohibition of illegal force. The rules themselves would have to allow for self-defense, as in domestic criminal law. But once again that very analogy showed that prevent- ing war was possible. It was just a matter of deciding what could count under law, what would not, who would decide, and who could become the globe's constable. The hard part would be to get states-starting with Wright's-to agree to a system of policing to check aggressors. "King Canute did not increase his prestige by commanding the tide to recede," Wright conceded, referring to the medieval Danish king renowned for trying to do just that, "and international law will not gain in authority by commanding wars to cease if they do not cease." Even before the Geneva Protocol arbitration project went south, Wright knew it was going to be hard to federalize power to back up words. But there was no alternative, since "the hopelessness of outlaw- ing w