ultilateral system across the Atlantic, advocates of arbitration often proposed that individual states could agree to bi- lateral treaties with partners that called for arbitrating any disputes that arose. In the late nineteenth century, they were astonishingly success- ful. They boasted more than 150 actual instances of arbitrated com- promise between states, in circumstances that might otherwise have led to armed strife. By the 1890s, there were serious proposals not merely to establish a universal arbitration system but even to found an expert body or full-fledged court that would pacify the globe with the consent of once-warring states. Proposals differed about how compulsory to make the system. There was also disagreement over whether states could reserve the right to go to war, not merely in cases of self-defense but also when "national honor" or "vital inter- ests" were at stake. CALLS FOR ARBITRATION, LIKE THE ADVOCACY OF PEACE IN ALL ITS forms, were gifted an electrifying opportunity when a bolt from the blue struck at the languorous end of the summer of 1898. The new  | 56| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS HUMANE Russian tsar, Nicholas II, called for a European peace conference to address the arms race of European powers and to deliberate on con- ditions and institutions of a durable peace. His premise was "the longings for a general appeasement" that had "become especially pronounced in the consciences of civilized nations" in "the course of the last twenty years." A "real and durable peace" was not only a new condition of popular legitimacy of governments, the tsar ex- plained. It was in their essential interest, too. A conference on the topic would be "by the help of God, a happy presage for the century which is about to open." It was an utterly shocking development, and not only because of the authoritarian and even reactionary politics of its main advocate. Why the conference had been called provided as much fodder for windy debate as what it could or shou