m, though it by no means silenced clamor for another conflict. Milne's own pacifist bestseller Peace with Honour (1934) didn't either- | 67| especially since Milne, like so many other pacifists, was ultimately to support war to put Adolf Hitler down. But like never before and to this day, cycles of cynicism and weariness toward international war became familiar features of the moral culture of elites. Before debates about how much to "appease" Hitler set in in the 1930s, the peace movement had altered the conditions of legitimacy that governed states' relations to their own people-at least when it came to European wars that could hurt them the most. Supporters of European harmony were much less sure that they opposed the constant violence of empires, except if geopolitical jockeying threat- ened to engulf Europeans themselves in war. Indeed, some openly urged "white peace" for the sake of a more harmonious global rule over non-European populations. But a transatlantic ascendancy of peace was better than nothing. With their distinctive peace culture, Americans kept pace with the activism of Europeans who threw themselves into the cause of peace after bearing the brunt of its implosion in World War I. A mot- ley crew of liberals and socialists, and noninterventionists in both major American political parties, had delayed the country's entry into World War I. In spite of President Wilson's decision to persecute them viciously thereafter, most critics of interventionism regrouped. By 1933, as old outfits swelled and new ones formed, Americans could boast twelve million adherents to the peace movement and an annual combined budget of more than $1 million (more than $20 million today). The old Tolstoyan Jane Addams, cofounder of the Women's Inter- national League and speaker at its first conference, and later second woman (after Suttner) to win the Nobel Peace Prize, continued her activism. The indefatigable and well-known feminist pacifist Lu- cia Ames Mead, a former pia