munist aggres- sion. To that point, the plan of internationalists was working: not that eternal peace would take hold magically but that its disturbers could be identified and interdicted. An accident helped: the day the Security Council met in Manhattan to authorize restoring the peace that Kim breached, the Soviet Union's representative, Jacob Malik, stayed on Long Island, supposedly in protest that Communist China had been deprived of its council seat. With no spoiler's veto, the plan remained in force, and the U.S. confrontation remained legal under United Nations auspices. The United Nations Charter had not exactly envisioned a single country taking the lead in the way that the United States now had. But thanks to the Security Council resolutions, the U.S. intervention was broadly perceived as a good-faith act of keeping the peace. In the memorable phrase of the country's D-day hero and now joint chiefs of staff chair General Omar Bradley, the resolutions could make the Korean War one "under the guise of aid to the United Na- tions" rather than the act of a capitalist empire opposing Communist expansion. The new script of peace had not been torn up in favor of the old one in which powerful nations angled for advantage and might in a lawless world. Yet those same United Nations resolutions that authorized response to the aggression of the north against the south gave no authority for crossing the 38th parallel, let alone for regime change or "rollback"  HUMANE | 152| AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE above it. By the time of MacArthur's decision, Malik had returned to the Security Council to foil further action. The former Vermont sena- tor Warren Austin, serving as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, now dismissed the parallel as an "imaginary line." In an era before decolonization multiplied its membership, the United States controlled the UN General Assembly. On October 7, the United States organized a General Assembly resolution to bless MacArthur's move