ic, peace activists mobilized against the prospect of weapons being released with high-altitude immunity and causing indiscriminate carnage. In 1911, Italy dropped the first bombs from airplanes, on Arabs in Libya, with the French and Spanish following suit elsewhere in North Africa the next year. It was immediately  HUMANE | 124 | | 125 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE clear that aerial strikes had their uses in extra-European violence. More important for the peace movement, they raised the prospect of even greater scandal in conventional European war. "What aerial war will mean," wrote W. Evans Darby, secretary of the Peace Soci- ety in London, "is beyond our imagination." ("The invaded Arabs of Tripoli might tell us," he added.) Those-including Arthur Conan Doyle !- who signed a "Memo- rial Against the Use of Armed Airships" in 1912 agreed that regu- lating this means of war was inseparable from the drive to eliminate war itself. "There never yet has been a moment when it was practi- cally possible to ban the war machines of earth or water," the signa- tories insisted. "There is a moment when it is practically possible to ban those of the air." That same year, the world's leading peace activist, the elderly Bertha von Suttner, published her impassioned pamphlet "Barba- rization of the Air," in which she continued her campaign against war now that it ominously threatened the skies. In bestselling nov- els, H. G. Wells was imagining what airships would do to war, and Suttner hoped to stop it-invoking the colonial victims of the first bombardments-before it was too late. She recorded that, in the early days of aviation, penniless inventors would come to the cash- strapped peace movement for funds, given the widespread expecta- tion that air travel would create a race of cosmopolitans who would never fight. Now, she rued, they had gotten more money than they needed from states willing to arm themselves for doomsday. The limited but real use of bombs from the skie