on later cited by President George W. | 107 | Bush's lawyers, Williams said the law allowed the drumhead court that General William Tecumseh Sherman proposed. "It is difficult," Williams suggested, "to define exactly the re- lations of the Indian tribes." Once they had been seen as external treaty partners; now they were an internal presence and threat. But since native peoples were different from white settlers, the "laws and customs of civilized warfare may not be applicable to an armed con- flict with the Indian tribes upon our western frontier." Even if they had applied, of course, Captain Jack had violated the most solemn requirements of civilized warfare, which-Williams speculated- probably applied to the way savages fight. The confederates of Abraham Lincoln's assassin, John Wilkes Booth, had been tried by commission, too, as wartime enemies. Modocs were eligible for sure. The proceeding that followed was a sham in retrospect. Knowing little or no English, the accused were forced to represent themselves, their translators served as star witnesses against them, and their bit- ter enemies sat in judgment. Williams's note was revealing for its vision of an international law that didn't apply to how white Ameri- cans treated their native enemies in war. Even when it was invoked, it was to permit whatever outcome between death and forbearance that policy dictated. "I want the world to hear my side of this trouble," Kintpuash said to a visitor while awaiting hanging. From Kintpuash's perspective, in- ternational law was little more than a euphemism for the destruction of his people. And there were two critical facts left out of the Ameri- can story and the attorney general's reasoning. First, the United States wasn't true to its word when it purported to make peace agreements with native peoples-legal treaties were deceptive to begin with (as Kintpuash felt of one he signed), or disregarded as soon as expansion and settlement demanded it. Second, both before and af