rful organization, its compas- sion, its love of others, would not cease to turn men from the spirit and revenge and cruelty which causes war." Humanitarians connived with and played on the hopes of peace advocates. Gustave Moynier occasionally invoked the nineteenth- century novelty of treating war as "an unnecessary evil," and pre- sented an antiwar strategy with two prongs, "seeking to render it less and less frequent" and "less and less disastrous"-a strategy "more or less avowed," as he delicately put it, depending on the audience. And in an utterly extraordinary moment, Moynier prophesied a dis- turbing future of endless humane war-only to reject it in advance. "If these laws made the abominations that occur in war disappear from it and made war so harmless that it would no longer have to be regarded as a terrible mischief," he noted, "I would not hesitate to declare those laws fatal and to fight them." For the moment, that pos- sibility understandably seemed so remote-"too improbable to fear," Moynier called it-that humane war was definitely worth pursuing. If states ever signed on, that would be the time to deal with the risk not of brutality but rather of humanity. BUT THE SITUATION WAS WORSE THAN IT SEEMED. IT WASN'T JUST that the effort to make war more humane failed on its own terms. It was that most laws of war didn't apply or were ignored when it came to counterinsurgent and colonial war. Advocates of humane war concentrated on the dreadful clash of great powers clustered around the Atlantic Ocean. Like the organized peace movement, the exponents of humanity spoke for white and increasingly wealthy populations outraged that war brought so much ruin to modern so- cieties boasting the greatest accumulation of power and riches ever seen. Few proposed that ending war or making it more humane per- tained to the globalization of the European empire, already centuries old, that continued into the twentieth century-or that they applied to American overseas exp