exation of Korea in 1910 and their col- onization of much of China, beginning with Manchuria in 1931. The Americans ended their war in the Pacific in the way the Japanese had started it, with death from the sky. But Americans also drew on their  HUMANE | 136| | 137 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE own traditions from the ground, as the leading historian Allan Nevins commented in 1946. "Emotions forgotten since our most savage Indian wars were reawakened by the ferocity of Japanese commanders," he reported-and drove Americans to atrocious war without limits. With the rest of the Axis, the Japanese committed the clearest violations of the laws of war on the books when World War II began. After Nanking came the infamous mistreatment of prisoners during the Bataan death march of 1942, which killed some Americans and tens of thousands of their Filipino colonial subjects. Americans were appalled by the dreadful fate of U.S. flyers captured during Lt. Col. James Doolittle's impetuous raid over Tokyo in April 1942. But it was a little rich for anyone to seek the high ground in these years. The Doolittle raid openly aimed at civilian targets-though it was only a pinprick compared with LeMay's cheerful decision to burn the city to the ground two years later. The straits of island warfare in the Pacific led U.S. marines and GIs to descend to the lowest levels. Few Japanese prisoners were taken, and not because they would never submit. There were especially rou- tine violations of applicable rules about the treatment of the dead; skull collections were especially popular, alongside necklaces of har- vested gold teeth. And the nonchalant execution of civilians, includ- ing "gook" women and children-the epithet had its origins in a slur on Filipinos forty years before-was familiar. For Americans in the Pacific race war, it was universal to ignore, or treat as unreal, whatever limitations in warfare may have existed. It was "Indian country" all over again. Freely indicting the