cans began to fight brutally in more and more places after World War II, their country's ascendancy occurred in a novel time. It was now less and less allowable (or at least feasible) to exclude the bulk of humanity from the protections of a new interna- tional humanitarian law or sustain the openly racist cultures that had allowed earlier horrors. By and large, the laws of war had been made by and for the white Europeans who were finally at peace with one another, and no longer ruling the nonwhite world so violently. The United States faced a moral situation European empires never had. Decolonization abroad, and domestic revolt and reform in an America that fought its global wars with racially integrated armies and even- tually with an African American president, changed the score. A grand mutation occurred under America's watch. There had been laws of war before the late twentieth century. But they were always haunted by the allegation that they were laws of inhuman- ity, licensing untold violence, with little constraint and less com- passion. That changed. Rules governing bombardment from the sky were finally invented, and older rules began to be taken seriously. International law did not bring global peace or lessen global hierar- chy. But there is no doubt that increased expectations of humanity in warfare began to reign. At the same time, this change came with a cost: the moral improvement of belligerency could risk merely prettifying it. The revelation of the My Lai massacre, where U.S. soldiers slaugh- tered women and children during the Vietnam War, helped bring that conflict to a close. The revulsion and outrage added fuel to the fire of America's last major peace movement, uniting liberals and leftists, the religious and the secular, pacifists and veterans. After Septem- ber 11, there was one extraordinary day in February 2003 when, with  HUMANE /12/ PROLOGUE the Iraq War looming, Americans joined nearly ten million protestors across the world in the most