t "man feels a sense of horror" when "seeing a dying animal," for a being "similar to his own is perishing before his eyes." In "The Bear Hunt," a later story, Tolstoy fictionalized his own brush with death after he hit his tar- get in the head with a gunshot but only maimed the beast before it rushed him and his face was nearly chewed off. But not long into his conversion process, Tolstoy commanded his sons to stop bringing their prey from their routine country expeditions into the house; and shortly he was to stop eating animal flesh. Concerns about animal cruelty had surged in the nineteenth cen- tury, together with the attack on slavery and then the campaign to humanize war, all with few precedents before. The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, a British outfit, appeared in the 1820s, and parallel groups appeared across the Atlantic over the mid- dle of the century. But some reforms were more popular, while others were unthinkable. Pride of place was given to animal cruelty protec- tions, including bans on the fighting or torture of animals, blood sports such as bullbaiting and cockfighting that had once been common  HUMANE |42| THE WARNING as popular entertainments. An enormous campaign against vivisec- tion, in spite of its medical uses, surged later. The treatment of animals in slaughterhouses lagged far behind, and the main reform in that arena was to move sites of killing from urban view rather than regulate their internal workings. Nonmeat diets, meanwhile, were still regarded as crackpot. Given his anxieties about movements against "brutality" (a crass misnomer to describe animal mistreatment), Tolstoy was not above at- tacking the coming of "humanity" in this realm. As with war, Tolstoy emphasized how it could function to enable and entrench more vio- lence than ever. By the 1860s, when Americans got around to starting their own American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, its founder could explain that "already it is fashion