" a late nineteenth-century historian reported. "The tribe which had lorded it so fiercely over the New England forests was all at once wiped out of existence." No one should be so squeamish as to think any rules of God or men were broken either. "As a matter of practical policy, the annihilation of the Pequots can be condemned only by those who read history so incorrectly as to suppose that savages, whose business is to torture  HUMANE | 104| LAWS OF INHUMANITY and slay, can always be dealt with according to the methods in use between civilized peoples," he continued. Actually, it was a forward- looking act: "The world is so made that it is only in that way that the higher races have been able to preserve themselves and carry on their progressive work." Crystallizing in the early eighteenth century, "Indian war" fought by teams of white "rangers"-as some of the special forces of the United States are still called-became the monotonous rhythm of the continent's life. Especially in the early days, it did not rule out co- existence and collaboration. But that frequently broke down. While their own practices by no means conformed to later notions of human- ity in warfare, native peoples actually learned many techniques of ex- terminating violence from settlers rather than the other way around. What Europeans called petite guerre in the eighteenth century to refer to aberrant and dishonored modes of engagement became routine for Americans, affecting their thinking about conventional wars. Patterns of settler counterinsurgency left a deep mark on Ameri- can war-making far beyond the domain of war proper, because con- quering and clearing territory helped to define national identity and expansionary zeal. According to James Kent, one of independent America's earliest legal gurus, Indians were still "in a savage state" with "continual war" as "the natural instinct and appetite." And when the law was taken to be relevant, it was because Indians, them- selves not following t