y, had to be treated "hu- manely," no matter their "race, colour, religion or faith, sex, birth or wealth." Specifically, humanity barred killing, torture, and other "cruel" or "humiliating and degrading" treatment. And no pun- ishments were allowed, especially executions, without "judgement pronounced by a regularly constituted court" with "judicial guar- antees." After many battles in the negotiations to the treaty, a rather awkward alliance of the Swiss humanitarians and the Soviet Union overcame opposition to any such article. But the relevance of this article to the war on terror more than fifty years later was entirely unforeseeable, because the intent at the time was to place constraints on internal armed conflict, especially civil war. Even there, it was primarily a symbolic victory, given that any state could always dis- miss its opponents as terrorists rather than belligerents-an option routinely relied on by the European imperial powers fully expecting to engage in counterinsurgency on their own territory. Worst of all, the new rules were toothless. It was not only that the treaties left to states themselves the obligation to punish "grave breaches" of its rules for international conflicts. There was also no obligation to try violations of the minimal rules in Common Article 3 for internal armed conflict, and when it came to the more robust framework for international law, the task was generally left by states to self-protective militaries themselves. More fundamentally, no law could magically enact a culture in which a new kind of humane war mattered to militaries or populations. World War II did not bring about that culture. As the Red Cross leader Jean Pictet acknowl- edged in 1954, in a cautious stocktaking on what he had achieved so far, "In times of war, legal stipulations-especially today, when war- fare is especially ruthless-are liable to be wholly disregarded." The results illustrated a sobering fact: everyone anticipated that many more ugly con