1942 and 1943. The American Curtis Le- May, a major in the European theater in 1942 who piloted dangerous missions himself, strove to make bombing more precise there-though the Americans and the British had agreed from the start that it was not necessary to be too discriminating. They divided their tasks between military targets and strategic bombing because only the Americans had the Norden bombsight, which allowed a modicum of control. In the second half of 1944, both air forces unleashed firestorms on urban centers in tandem. One U.S. officer worried that it would "absolutely convince the Germans that we are the barbarians they say we are, for it would be perfectly obvious to them that it is primarily a large-scale attack on civilians as, in fact, it of course will be." As, of course, it was. If there was a moral calculus in the mix, no law figured into it. In the U.K. House of Lords, in February 1944, the Anglican bishop of Chichester, George Bell, gave an impassioned speech doubting these acts comported with any legality, earthly or higher: "The Allies  HUMANE | 134| | 135 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE stand for something greater than power," he explained. "The chief name inscribed on our banner is 'Law.' It is because the bombing of enemy towns-this area bombing-raises this issue of power unlim- ited and exclusive that . . . it is of supreme importance that we who, with our Allies, are the liberators of Europe should so use power that it is always under the control of law." In a nation that had been pushed to the brink of defeat, with air raids on London and the de- struction of Coventry burned in memory, Bell's insistence on the law was an enormously unpopular view. Only misgivings around the superfluous firestorm in Dresden in February 1945 caused Winston Churchill to bring strategic bombing to an end. The cultural capital of a beaten enemy was devastated with no regard for the presence of thousands of refugees, who would make up a substantial proport