ch violence as ever, if not more. At the end of his visit to the slaughterhouse, Tolstoy revived Prince Andrei's thinking from almost three decades before, almost citing his former character. The aged guru imagined "a kind, refined  HUMANE |44| THE WARNING lady" who "is so sensitive that she is unable, not only herself to in- flict suffering on animals, but even to bear the sight of suffering." No wonder that a more humane mode of production-if preferably out of sight-suited her. Yet "she cannot avoid causing suffering to animals-for she eats them." Indeed, thanks to the amelioration of slaughter "she will devour these animals with full assurance that she is doing right." There is little debate to be had over whether making animal slaughter humane helped raise consciousness over time, to the point of sparking a drive to abolish an atrocious practice altogether. And Tolstoy only glimpsed the early stages of the humanization of meat production. In the case of animals, humanization was clearly a path not to pacification but to much more violence. The slaughterhouse showed how "humanity" worked when its pursuit was entirely un- related to an abolitionist goal. Did making war humane risk a similar result? TOLSTOY DIED IN 1910. IN A REMOTE TRAIN STATION IN ASTAPOVO, on a bizarre flight from his home and his long-suffering wife. Ironi- cally, it was within a few weeks of Dunant's own passing. It would soon become clear-if it wasn't already clear during the Russian sage's lifetime-that his worries about Dunant's project were expressed too early. Hadji Murat, Tolstoy's posthumous novella recounting the diffi- culties of maintaining imperial control in the face of Muslim terrorism could not seem prophetic to Americans for decades. For a long time, his warnings about making war humane were inapplicable as well. Indeed, the inhumanity of wars would remain and even worsen, even as they broke out too regularly and lasted too long. The fact that killing was nasty and brutish did n