arbor, they assumed responsibility for global affairs despite previous decades of skittish doubts. Yet the consequences of World War II were ambiguous. With America's help, European dreams of a continent beyond military strife were finally realized. But the militarized standoff that counted as the Cold War's ver- sion of peace in Europe coexisted with American wars in Asia and elsewhere. American internationalists such as Quincy Wright had argued for their country to be involved in the struggle for global peace. Perpetual war was the price. And it was pitilessly violent. The United States guaranteed the European peace by exporting to  HUMANE | 120| | 121 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE Asia the total-war tactics Europeans had previously used in colonial wars, and that Americans themselves had employed against Native Americans and Filipinos. On the land and in the air, U.S. power was deployed ruthlessly not just to end World War II but also to hold the line against communism in Korea five years later. It was no accident that American peace and brutal war went together; it was a matter of fervent belief. "I am a one hundred percent disbeliever in war," General Douglas MacArthur remarked at one point. Some might have seen it as a peculiar claim, coming from the most celebrated U.S. soldier of the middle of the twenti- eth century, famous for his brave acts, corncob pipe, and dashing ways. Yet it was precisely war's brutality, MacArthur thought, that would guarantee peace on acceptable terms. If Americans now em- braced global order as their mission, it was at first as ardent foes of humane war. MacArthur hoped to be remembered, as he famously put it when arriving in Tokyo in 1945, "not as a commander engaged in cam- paigns and battles, even though victorious to American arms." In- stead, he was an emissary with a "sacred duty" to "carry to the land of our vanquished foe the solace and hope and faith of Christian morals." Christian Europeans were finally pacified a