eady the year before his decision to stop eating meat. When he wrote a preface for an early treatise of vegetarian ethics in 1892, Tolstoy returned to his analogy of animal slaughter and hu- mane war. His visit to the slaughterhouse in Tula, the town near his estate, in order "to see with my own eyes the reality of the question raised when vegetarianism is discussed," called forth-one more time-his denunciation of the sinister dynamic of humane entrench- ment. On arrival, Tolstoy remembered, the "disgusting, fetid smell" suffused the area. As he entered the red brick building, he was able to watch as a butcher stabbed an ox into immobility before cutting its throat and beginning to dismember it before its life was gone, even skinning its skull "while it continued to writhe." "All the time this was going on," Tolstoy noted, "the ox kept incessantly twitch- ing its head as if trying to get up." The next victim, a bull, required much more violence even to subdue, for the initial blow went awry. What interested Tolstoy in this scene was not merely the grisli- ness of slaughter, an immemorial practice, but the novelty of acting in the name of humanity to make it kinder and moral. He went to Tula, rather than a local shop in the countryside, in order to witness "the new and improved system practiced in large towns, with a view to causing the animals as little suffering as possible." In the great cities of the transatlantic world, slaughter was being centralized and quarantined in new ways, before the vast new zones of death were transplanted far away. Tolstoy's grim expedition revealed, however, that the amelioration of meat production primarily served to help its audiences manage their consciences, telling themselves they were better people while in fact they sponsored as much violence as ever, if not more. At the end of his visit to the slaughterhouse, Tolstoy revived Prince Andrei's thinking from almost three decades before, almost citing his former character. The aged