, legal stipulations-especially today, when war- fare is especially ruthless-are liable to be wholly disregarded." The results illustrated a sobering fact: everyone anticipated that many more ugly conflicts were on the way. In light of the atomic bomb, J. M. Spaight caustically observed, "the humanitarian Conventions read like hypocritical nonsense." Once again, after World War II as after its predecessor, nobody mobilized in the name of humane war, though undoubtedly the few around the world who heard about the long-obscure Geneva Con- ventions sympathized with their spirit. There would not have been such a diplomatic struggle around the Geneva Conventions had par- ties to the negotiations expected them to be eternally meaningless, but that does not mean states expected to worry about widespread outrage over the continuation of brutal war anytime soon. European empires learned sooner than they would have liked that anticolonial- ists could make hay of counterinsurgent violence. In the long run, however, European empires were on the way out, and what would matter more was whether and how America's global wars were going to be affected by the new rules. While there was no humane war movement of note for decades outside of the realm of Swiss patricians-peace movements survived after World War II. Yet in the United States they had almost disap- peared, compared with their presence before. Those that survived were comparatively disabused. They existed in the shadow of de- cades of global death, and amid self-styled realism about the need for violence on both sides of the Cold War and decolonization strug- gles. With the midwestern Henry Wallace cashiered in 1944 as vice president and losing an independent run for president in 1948, the American tradition of Christian pacifism was almost dead. The dec- laration by the Soviet Union (which infiltrated Wallace's campaign) of "a peace offensive" in 1948, as the hallmark of its own empire's foreign policy, calling for coexist