nt to the equality of democratic sovereigns-at least in states of white peoples. As the war went on, and the postwar order was planned, internationalism became a commitment to an arrange- ment in which the United States would intervene on condition of be- coming first among equals, a new empire in all but name. For liberals and socialists, internationalism had once suggested world government among equal states, but now it came to be nearly synonymous with armed if seemingly beneficent supremacy. Non- interventionist socialists had died out since World War I, and liberals writing at The Nation, The New Republic, and elsewhere followed a twisted path that ultimately swerved toward intervention and su- premacy. Critical to the lingering leeriness of war among progressives was the influence, often subliminally, of the Soviet Union's public re- lations. For years, that country presented itself as a peace power, in part out of weakness, as it struggled for survival behind the cordon sanitaire with which the West kept communism at bay. But by the late 1930s, with Josef Stalin fully engaged in the Spanish Civil War, burying the hatchet with Hitler in 1939 and then dividing Poland with him, the equation of progressivism and peace seemed obsolete. A few, like Wright, believed that it was still possible to create a new international law that put down aggressors. "A transition from a hegemonic to a democratic organization of the world could only rest on a firm structure of international law, but that law proved too weak to bear the load . . . There seems more hope in a federal organization of the world." The truth was that America's choice for armed supremacy after Pearl Harbor dealt as humbling a defeat to internationalist visions of peace through law, especially the dream of arbitration, as to "isolation." World War II enshrined a European peace through the ascendancy of one great power. It wasn't what Wright had intended. He was a charter member of the World Citi- zens Assoc