tration, as to "isolation." World War II enshrined a European peace through the ascendancy of one great power. It wasn't what Wright had intended. He was a charter member of the World Citi- zens Association, founded in 1938, and joined his Chicago colleagues in drafting a world constitution after 1945. World War II, as he saw it, was a war fought on behalf of the rule of international law, for "the ramparts to defend are the ramparts of law, and the place to defend them is the place where lawlessness be- gins." Totalitarian states, Wright explained in summer 1941, were so perverted that their existence was simply incompatible with the new destiny of international law to abolish recourse to force. The Soviet Union's move from peace policies to the offensive invasion of Finland in November 1939 proved that point long before Hitler moved west and then east, rupturing his erstwhile alliance with Stalin and in- vading his lands. To Wright, "Totalitarianism both in principle and practice rejects all standards above the legislation of the totalitarian government." WORLD WAR II WAS THE MOST BRUTAL WAR YET, AND NOT ONLY BECAUSE the Axis powers disregarded all constraints. America's reconquest of the islands of its Pacific empire proved so costly and difficult that it shaped a still-debated endgame to the conflict. The recourse to aerial bombing in 1944-45 lessened the more symmetrical horrors of close- range engagement, but only in favor of mass death of civilians, first as Japanese cities were razed by fire and then as two nuclear bombs were dropped with no thought about the rules of international law. The propriety of morale or strategic bombing, with openly ad- vertised roots in colonial counterinsurgency, was already secure enough by the early 1920s to inform a doctrine of the United States Army (of which the United States Air Force was formally part until  HUMANE | 132 | | 133 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE 1947). According to one 1922 manual, "The effect of bombi