I's de- signs over Ottoman lands, Tolstoy was sent to the war-torn peninsula that gave the conflict its name. There Tolstoy, who had been born in 1828, acquired a skepticism of making war humane that matters even today. Especially today. It would last his whole life long-but it would take a radically different shape in his youth and his old age. Revisiting the origins of the laws of war with Tolstoy, whatever his idiosyncratic and objec- tionable conclusions, is of enormous value today. He offered the most eloquent and thought-provoking reservations ever leveled against the attempt to "humanize" war, highlighting the moral risk of failing to combine the desire for less brutal war with skepticism toward war itself-since war routinely makes the world worse, no matter how humanely fought, and almost never better. While a soldier, Tolstoy passed almost a year in and around Sev- astopol, where the Crimean War would end in an eleven-month  HUMANE | 18| THE WARNING siege of the picturesque Russian town on the Black Sea by a multi- national alliance of armies. Arriving in its midst, Tolstoy manned one of Sevastopol's fortified high bastions during the climactic ten-day bombardment of the town. Tolstoy wrote three short stories about the siege, culminating in an account of that final battle for the city. These stories first crystallized his belief that war itself is the moral evil to be concerned about, not the niceties of how it is fought. The sketches, which established Tolstoy's national fame, begin with his introduction to Sevastopol under siege in December 1854 in a moment of quiet when he is rudely led into the amputation room for wounded soldiers. "You will see ghastly sights that will rend your soul," he writes, "you will see war not with its orderly beautiful and brilliant ranks, its music and beating drums, its waving banners, its generals on prancing horses, but war in its real aspect of blood, suf- fering, and death." The sketch concludes with nationalist hopes f