yet above callously suppressing, while Americans were soon to embark on globalized war-in Korea, for example. The International Committee of the Red Cross drove the process of cajoling states to support the reboot. The ICRC emerged from World War II a profoundly damaged institution, and almost lost custodian- ship of the laws of war altogether before putting its energy behind the new convention project. It was remarkable that, with the Cold War ap- proaching and then taking hold, the ICRC convinced the sixty states of the time of the need to act at all, and the treaties were no doubt hon- orable in the steps they took. It was especially revolutionary that the Soviet Union-along with the states of its empire in Eastern Europe participated, after bitter recriminations kept it out before World War II. Indeed, the Soviet self-presentation as a humanitarian force shaped the U.S. negotiation posture, not least efforts to fend off proposals to ban atomic and other bombardment. Beyond some revisions to historic agreements concerning in- jured soldiers and sailors and prisoners of war, there were two novel achievements in coverage in 1949. Now at last there was a separate treaty that protected civilians, especially under circumstances of foreign occupation. There was also Common Article 3-"common" because it figured in all four of the new Geneva treaties-which protected combatants and civilians in circumstances of internal or "non-international" armed conflict. Some rules against taking civil- ians hostage and their collective punishment were strengthened because the Nazis had made those acts radioactive. The same was true of mass deportations, which during World War II had also af- fected non-Jews, who were far likelier to return to tell their stories of internment. The treaty process had few implications for the actual fighting of war, which the spotty old Hague rules still governed. Even the new civilian convention did not clearly provide new protection from ae- rial bomb