ofoundly racialized. Colonial war was forced into a nether zone of asymmetrical if sometimes conventional conflict, counterinsurgent suppression to restore order, and imperial provisions licensing emer- gency measures and martial law. In all these versions of global fighting, rules were even less significant a constraint than on the transatlan- tic scene. One reason humanitarians and peace advocates alike gained more traction when it came to great-power conflict across borders was that few people found anything wrong with counterinsurgency-the suppression of the irregular forces of enemies-within empires. It was hardly by accident that international law regulated war between states, not within colonies. As a result, the "progress" that the cam- paign for humane war embodied did not interfere with the global designs of states. Counterinsurgent war also had a North Atlantic history, and it showed that a second set of standards also applied to white ene- mies when they failed to fight with an organized army. Breakaway Americans facing down the British Empire in the 1770s, like the doomed 1790s insurgents in the Vendée suppressed by the leaders of the French Revolution, had certainly used irregular tactics to fight better-armed or more numerous foes. But it required Napoleon's mass armies and new modes of organization for a second track of counterinsurgent warfare to emerge clearly in response to his rag- tag opponents. It was immortalized forever as "guerrilla war," after the resistance during Napoleon's Peninsular War in Spanish lands. Tolstoy captured something of how norms went out the window in such situations when he portrayed the Russian people destroying Napoleon's conventional forces in 1812. "War was being carried on contrary to all the rules," the narrator of War and Peace remarks of the scene, with a blend of dread and snark, "as if there were any rules for killing people." A century of counterinsurgent "small wars" followed around the world. A border war in