uildups. (When Stead, who also popularized Bloch's thinking in En- glish, died on the Titanic in 1912, not the least of the tragedies is that it deprived him of his Nobel Peace Prize, in what was said to be his year to win it.) The peace movement moved into high gear precisely because the tsar's vision elicited unexpected public enthusiasm. Peace activists gathered hundreds of thousands of signatures (more than a quarter million from Denmark alone) supporting the conference agenda. It was a moment when, to Suttner and so many others, the final peace of which they had dreamed was suddenly there to be grasped in reality-if enlightened statesmen were forced into obeying public opinion. Suttner's hotel flew a white flag to advertise her presence during the proceedings, and she kept the pressure on, publishing a diary of her activism in the formal sessions and in the wings. Machina- tions in the lead-up to the conference already showed that humoring Nicholas and placating the eager public were going to be the main agenda. As negotiations continued, it became clear that states (espe- cially Germany) were not about to do more than pay lip service to the cause of peace. Suttner's worst fears were realized when it be- came evident that no constraints on the freedom to initiate hostilities were in the offing. Scandalously, delegates at the opulent House in the Woods, where the conference was held, moved sanctimoniously to Plan B: an agreement concluded with effusive pageantry and showy moralism to regulate how war is fought. Like Suttner, Tolstoy returned from his credulous stance to one of knowing skepticism. Always willing to castigate the immoral from his mountaintop, he in- veighed against all "hypocritical institutions, whose purpose is not the attainment of peace, but, on the contrary, the concealment from men of that one means for attaining universal peace"-namely, his  | 58 BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS HUMANE own ethics of nonresistance. Once so promising, the proceedi