he contrary, the concealment from men of that one means for attaining universal peace"-namely, his  | 58 BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS HUMANE own ethics of nonresistance. Once so promising, the proceedings at The Hague were no more than a dodge. True, there was one breakthrough: the creation of a corps of judges called the Permanent Court of Arbitration, which still exists to this day. And the possibility was left open that future conferences might obligate states to submit themselves to that court's arbitration on a compulsory basis. Yet it was now clear that the dream of peace would have to be realized another day and rely on a different embod- iment. Unfortunately, the successor conference, which took place in 1907, also ended with little to show for itself other than more rules for humane war, and with dreams for a more powerful arbitration court dashed. Suttner, refusing to be defeated, took a long view. A decade after the first conference in The Hague, she called it "an epoch-making date in the history of the world." It marked "the first time, since history began to be written, that the representatives of governments come together to find a means for 'securing a perma- nent, genuine peace' for the world." SUTTNER DIED IN SUMMER 1914, MERE DAYS BEFORE THE ASSASSINA- tion of the heir to the Habsburg throne touched off World War I. On her passing, the editorialists of The Nation in New York City recalled Suttner's novel Lay Down Your Arms as the most transformational call for peace the world had ever seen. "No other brief for peace has won so many converts or exercised so great an influence on all quarters of the globe." A minority of Americans were sure that their country was es- sential to Suttner's cause of bringing peace. "Law, the first daugh- ter of the voice of God, asserts herself as civilization advances and will be heard," insisted a group of U.S. peace activists advocating arbitration who met every year at the beautiful Lake Mohonk in New York State, whe