t with pleasure, but with resignation." In the father's gen- eration, "the warlike spirit is livelier than in ours," and lacked "the feeling of humanity, which is zealous for the abolition of all misery, and which at this time is extending in ever-wider circles." When the father protests that misery in general can no more be abolished than war in particular, the response comes on behalf of all those who have moved from necessity to possibility: In these words you are defining the only point of view (one now much shaken) from which the past used to regard all social evils-i.e., the point of view of resignation-as one looks at what is inevitable . . . But if ever, at the sight of a great evil, the doubtful ques- tion has forced itself on one's heart, "Must this be so?" then the heart can no longer remain cold; and, besides pity, a kind of repentance springs up. Not a personal re- pentance indeed but-how shall I express it ?- a protest from the conscience of the age. As a result, and under Martha's tutelage, her husband abandons all investment in war. In an extended analogy with the primitivism of religion, he gives up fealty to "the war god," and resolves that he will "no longer kneel" or even "enter the now desecrated temple," hear "the mighty organ-voice of the cannon," nor inhale "the incense- smoke of the powder."  HUMANE | 52| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS The true religion was peace among states, not humanity within their wars. "What is the flag of the Red Cross compared with the white standard of peace?" asked Suttner's novel The Machine Age published in 1889, the same year she published her masterpiece. "To heal a fraction of the wounded was possible under the former-but for the victims of a coming war, to make all the impoverished rich again, all the sick healthy, all the dead alive was what the latter sym- bolizes, by nipping the possibility of the coming war itself in the bud." In Lay Down Your Arms, even Martha's once-militaristic father converts to her paci