spicious but 'out for blood.'" With their fathers, they responded to enemies with "the innate cruelty of a primitive race." Spain answered the mayhem with more than hyperbole. The poison  | 128 | | 129| AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE HUMANE gas bombs that fell from the sky onto the Rifians starting in June 1924 certainly gave Spain's fury a bit of international notoriety. The action came on the brink of Geneva Protocol meetings in 1925 that would pro- hibit gas weapons delivered from ground or sky. The ban was agreed. This breakthrough was the sole real advance for international law gov- erning the conduct of military hostilities in the era, even if it occurred not because of outrage over the Rif War or extra-European bombing but because of memories of European gas in World War I. France helped Spain finish the job of putting down the Berber rebellion in 1925-26, this time with conventional bombs, and ex- tended its empire in the bargain. In 1936, Italy's invasion of Ethi- opia and seven-month bombing campaign caused an international uproar-though it was the use of gas rather than its aerial delivery that sparked outrage. With European war brewing, it also mattered that Italy's acts were in clear violation of the 1925 protocol. Only the international hue and cry over the aerial destruction of tiny Guer- nica by Germans helping Francisco Franco win the Spanish Civil War in April 1937 suggested that there might be something more outrageous about conventional bombing than about conventional ground weapons. As its own era of global warfare approached, the United States was no less enthusiastic about bombing, and for the same reasons. "Among savages, war includes everyone," wrote the U.S. army cap- tain and literature aficionado Elbridge Colby in 1927, in a contri- bution to the country's leading organ of international law. He was miffed that Wright had dared to criticize the French for their indis- criminate bombardment of Damascus, Syria, eighteen months ear- lier,