mately ratify the agreement. 1925: The Geneva Protocol bans the wartime use of bacteriological and gas weapons. 1929: A new Geneva Convention, officially named the Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War, is signed, which adds to the earlier Hague Convention rules protecting captured soldiers. 1945: The United Nations Charter is finalized, consecrating the peace American and Allied victory secures-and with no attempt to provide for more humane war. The treaty prohibits the threat or use of force in the international system, except when authorized by the United Nations Security Council, or in self-defense until the Se- curity Council acts. | 329 | 1945-46: The International Military Tribunal, also known as the Nuremberg trials, prioritizes trying Nazi leaders for aggressive war, while finding many guilty for crimes against humanity and the rules of war. A comparable inquest for crimes in East Asia takes place in To- kyo from 1946 to 1948, giving disruptions of the peace even more pri- ority (compared with violations of rules of war) than Nuremberg did. 1948: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is passed by the United Nations General Assembly, including an article prohib- iting torture. 1949: The current and still-operative Geneva Conventions are finished. Updating the more minimal protections of the Hague Con- ventions, civilian safeguards are provided in a standalone instrument for the first time. Most of the rules are devised for "international armed conflict." But Common Article 3 governs "non-international" conflict, with minimal rules for prisoner treatment and trial. In the long run, these rules bind all states. 1950: As the Korean War breaks out, all parties agree to abide by the Geneva Conventions, especially for prisoner treatment. 1954: States conclude a Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property that expands the list of off-limits targets in war and provides for the return of property after hostilities. 1955: The United