y. "Eternal peace is a dream-and hardly a beautiful one," he said. Indeed, "war is part of the world order that God ordained." Regular violence was the font of virtue for males, without which humanity would "sink into materialism." In the face of resistance like this, the Red Cross project of humane war mattered mainly because it cloaked the agenda of states as they followed up its 1864 convention with new moves to codify rules of war without any intended or express humanitarian goal at all. It may have been true that Dunant's humane concern kicked off a tradition of modern international law around how war is fought. But the century that followed showed that states took that law seriously only when it served purposes militaries already had in mind. It helped states that a sense of vague humanitarianism was attached to the endeavor, in the fluffy verbiage that even legal treaties can include. But the actual rules were often reduced to meaninglessness by the insurance that "military necessity" could override them-a proviso that the Prussians boasted about out loud but that no army truly rejected. How did international lawyers fool themselves? Mostly through a combination of complacency and self-regard. They assumed that if the existing customs of war were written down and raised from national policy and law to international treaties, it would necessarily improve the world. Over the course of a few "well-catered days" of "Flemish feasts" in Ghent in 1873, Moynier cofounded the Institute of Interna- tional Law with the Belgian Gustave Rolin-Jacquemyns, who hypoth- esized that the project should lead to a result "not only as humane but more humane" than otherwise. (One year before Suttner won the Nobel Peace Prize, the institute won the first such prize awarded to an organization.) There was little reflection on what it meant that inter- national law generally left war its old self or licensed new cruelties. It was true that many international lawyers understood them- se