nfederates were captured, the oc- togenarian but still passionate Quaker feminist and pacifist Lucretia Mott and her fellow leaders of the Universal Peace Union implored Grant to offer something better than sham justice for the Modocs, or at least clemency if they were convicted. In a petition, Mott re- minded Grant that he had promised a new age of peace after the Civil War led the nation into bloody fratricide. "We feel confident," Mott explained, "that were pure peace principles applied in the case of the persons in whose behalf we address you, it would show the civilized and uncivilized worlds that there is in the soul of man a far mightier and more enduring power than any of the nations of the earth have yet brought into use." Feeling ignored, Mott later burst in on a fine dinner Grant hap- pened to be enjoying with her Philadelphia neighbor. In response to her plea for clemency, Grant promised her that not all the convicted Modocs would die. One of the two fighters who was shipped to Al- catraz instead of being hanged nonetheless perished from scrofula within two years. As for Captain Jack, once he was pulled down from the hanging rope, his head was severed from his body and sent  HUMANE | 110| | 111| LAWS OF INHUMANITY to Washington in a box as a trophy. It was the last act of California's wars with the Indians, unless you count the exile of the Modoc rem- nants to eastern Oklahoma, almost two thousand miles away, where the entire population-including children-was held as prisoners of war indefinitely. "We have never considered the wrongs of the Indian as our own," Mott observed the next year. "We have aided in driving them further and further west, until, as the poor Indian has said, 'You will drive us away, until we go beyond the setting sun.'" A QUARTER CENTURY LATER, ACROSS THE PACIFIC OCEAN IN ITS burgeoning overseas empire, the United States found itself em- broiled first in a conventional war and then a decades-long counter- insurgency. It received the