he people they met were hostile, and shot many without a second thought. The French minister filing reports commented mor- dantly that "American soldiers are the true savages," adding that their  HUMANE | 112| | 113 | LAWS OF INHUMANITY very "brutality, provocation, and excess surely have served the cause of insurrection." Once its writers got word of what was going on, The Nation agreed. "The war of 1898 'for the cause of humanity' has degenerated in 1899 into a war of conquest, characterized by rap- ine and cruelty worthy of savages." Trying to be nice, the magazine conceded that it was "to the credit of our soldiers that while in the heat of battle they carry out the orders to take no prisoners, most of them inwardly revolt at the idea of such barbarism, and want to come home." Whether or not that was true, the commanding general and first military governor in the Philippines, Elwell Morris, having honed his craft in Indian engagements in the Montana Territory after Little Big Horn, approved harsh tactics from the start. Anyone with the potential to resist was fair game. And unconditional surrender was the goal, which justified nearly any act. These were "methods which have proved successful in our Indian campaigns in the West," Elihu Root, secretary of war in the period, explained (a view of no perti- nence to his later Nobel Prize as enthusiast for transatlantic arbi- tration). And practices worsened when General Arthur MacArthur, Jr., succeeded Morris as governor, as the U.S. effort devolved into the kind of counterinsurgency farther south that MacArthur had personally led on the northern island of Luzon before his promotion. For a brief period, before MacArthur proclaimed all resistance- and in practice, anyone the army wanted-beyond the pale of legal protection, there was an internal debate within the military about limits. There had been rhetoric from the start that not only was the situation a war, but also applicable constraints on war among civi- lized n