heir humanity makes them more tolerable. Blatant racism and massive death might no longer infect their conduct, even as the wars them- selves presuppose an extraordinary ongoing hierarchy among na- tions. The importance of editing war crimes out of your wars should not excuse spurning your onetime commitment to peace-courting the risk that it will seem to have been delusional or rhetorical all along. The best incarnation of your nation's better angels, Barack Obama can calmly explain, as you nod with gratitude for the elo- quence and reasonableness of the case he makes, why the trade-offs in expanding and extending a superpower's violence made sense once it was made more humane. But I worry that with better can also come worse, not because improvement is a lie but because there is no single arc to the moral universe that guarantees that progress comes without regress on other fronts. The one can even facilitate the other. In your calculus, after all, you might have been wrong. The idea of humane war might have turned out to be less an ideal choice than  HUMANE | 322| EPILOGUE an imperial excess and tragic mistake. Not only might you fail to reckon with its immediate legacy-all the war-making that occurs when your worse angels accede to the presidency. You also have not begun to come to grips with whether a global policing system bur- nished with your humane aspirations but under your nation's sole authority amounts to a humbling new form of permanent subjuga- tion for others, as offensive to peace in its own way as your errant drones and sloppy Special Forces. Worst of all, as you daily set ex- amples of more humane violence, is the possibility that others will visit on Americans themselves the same treatment, in the eternal process of the rise and fall of great powers. Improvement itself can be a recipe for new modes of abasing ourselves and dominating our fellow human beings-not diminishing inequality but reinventing its terms. In his concern that advocates for mo