r, she would cast the sole vote against war after Pearl Harbor. THE THORNY QUESTION WAS HOW TO FINALLY REALIZE SUTTNER'S dream of peace in the aftermath of war. It was here that Wright, a legal expert, could play a discreet but decisive role as her American heir and successor among lawyers. For Wright, the glass was half full from the outset. It was a coup for peace movements that, after World War I, the idea of interna- tional law came to be identified with their once-lonely ideal, through the rhetorical feints of politicians and states under pressure from mobilized publics with new expectations. Peace had never been the purpose of international law before, even for its promoters. Mak- ing war humane had been attractive among buttoned-up lawyers because it seemed more feasible than peace and for the same reason | 69| did not risk the reputations of professionals nervous to transgress the mainstream. After the massacres of World War I, however, hu- mane war lost its relative importance as once-radical hopes for peace became mainstream themselves. "The fundamental problem of our time," intoned one who explained that pacifism had become the very purpose of his field, "is to civilize and demilitarize the state, so that men can become free, and true masters of their destiny." Though progressive to his core, Wright was not a starry-eyed idealist, nor a naïve legalist who thought passing a new law would change the world. "The law is a term to conjure with as is the flag, the church or the home," he explained to one correspondent, merely a tool for "the effective propagandizing of particular beliefs" which have "no objective validity other than the fact that they are believed in." This didn't make it less useful, but more so. "Many people will approve of a decision rationalized in legal terminology simply be- cause it represents that holy symbol, the law," Wright insisted. For that very reason, part of the internationalist's agenda was to canon- ize a new and superior arra