es of America may not be the heaven on earth that the Congregationalist founders of her hometown dreamed of when they named it; but its ways in the world are certainly much improved since Vietnam. As for her wedding guests, they all voted for Barack Obama in part because he promised to wage the ongoing hostilities with greater morality, compared with the war criminal who preceded him. As a hundred Aperol spritzes bob on trays across the grassy landscape, the guests grimace during the obligatory conversation about the coming election. They genuinely fear that their fellow voters could put a madman in power who will return American war to its not-so- distant brutal ways. A few months later, they might glower when he wins, convinced that they are not to blame for the results. Even so, they have not entirely forgotten that at their elite colleges they learned the classical wisdom that endless conflict and far-flung ex- pansion distort the politics of republics, whatever the methods and style of the fighting. Though victims beyond our borders suffer even more, war abroad often leads to tyranny at home. Of all the peoples in the annals of warfare, Americans are the ones who have invented a form of war righteously pursued as superior precisely for being more humane, and one tolerated by audiences for that very reason. It has also been Americans who are revealing- contrary to literature since Homer-that the most elemental face of war is not death. Instead, it is control by domination and surveil- lance, with mortality and even violence increasingly edited out. Whatever other blame or credit our civilization earns, Americans are proving that war's evil is less and less a matter of illicit killing or even suffering. Nevertheless, war may be no less sinister for that. WHEN I WAS A YOUNG AMERICAN, MY COUNTRY WENT TO WAR AGAIN. I was working in the White House, as a lowly intern, when NATO |7| bombed Serbia to prevent mass killings in Kosovo. The interven- tion looked like the f