inciples of international law, as they result from the usages estab- lished between civilized nations, from the laws of humanity and the requirements of the public conscience." But no one could say for sure that such eloquent verbiage imposed extra requirements on states, which have never yet recognized it. In the successor conference in 1907, the most novel development was the agreement to proclaim the illegality of means of war that inflicted "unnecessary suffering"- once again, without defining what counted. But the lion's share of the new Hague rules in 1899 and 1907 had nothing to do with humane war. Instead, they codified military cus- toms and definitions of military necessity. Provisions for occupation gave enough wiggle room for armies facing civil disorder to crack down. For those in the know, Dunant's Geneva Convention was be- ginning to look more and more like the rare occasion when the in- terests of militaries and the goal of reducing suffering coincided. "Humanity" was hardly a credible description of the laws of war as a whole. Tolstoy had worried about the compromises advocates would make to work with militaries, the same way prior do-gooders had compromised with slaveholders not to abolish slavery but to make it more humane. For a long time, there was no space for compromise, and instead plenty of humanitarians were fooled into giving away the store to militaries. As a result, there was no humane war in sight. The Geneva Convention aiding wounded soldiers had already involved a strategic agreement outsourcing military responsibilities. After the ink was dry on it, states accepted few serious constraints. Two years after the disaster in The Hague, Suttner mobilized. With the doddering and elderly Dunant's partial connivance, she rehabilitated him not only as an emissary of peace but also as one who had always aimed to achieve it rather than humane war instead.  HUMANE |90| | 91| LAWS OF INHUMANITY Though Dunant had been interested in proposals to se