ith emphasis on property), especially in situations of military occupation. As they had at Brussels, delegates also affirmed in the treaty that there was some limitation to the means armies could use to win, leaving it vague what they were ruling out. They did get specific when it came to weaponry. Soft-tipped bul- lets that caused grievous injury by expanding in flight were banned. Years before at St. Petersburg, in 1868, all the great powers of Europe had agreed not to use exploding bullets. Suffusing their acts with humanitarian rhetoric, militaries were sometimes willing to outlaw old weapons if they had assurances that the other side would not use them either. Tolstoy wasn't impressed: "Why are a wound and death from an explosive bullet any worse than a wound caused by the simplest kind?" he asked. "It is incomprehensible how mentally sound adults can seriously express such strange ideas." Now, at The Hague, states agreed to ban the "dum dum" bullets that, with their hollow points, expanded while traveling and caused much more grievous injury than mantled ammunition: "splintered bones, rent skin, and severed muscles" that "often required amputation as the only remedy." Of course, self-interested regulation hardly kept mili- taries from developing new weapons, while the solemn treaties they agreed distracted people from the fact that technological innovations made new firepower deadlier and deadlier to more and more people. Fedor Martens, the Russian lawyer who worked out most of the | 89 | reforms proposed by the successive tsars, succeeded in inserting into the Hague treaty of 1899 a provision clamping down on the risk that ruling out some vile practices might rule others in. Everything about war, the treaty says, remains "under the protection and empire of the principles of international law, as they result from the usages estab- lished between civilized nations, from the laws of humanity and the requirements of the public conscience." But no one could say fo