condemn it because you are in the process of becoming more humane." Once Dunant was chosen, Suttner turned to damage control- attempting to promote Dunant as a peace activist while downplay- ing his contributions to the campaign to humanize warfare. Suttner and Dunant had been in correspondence for five years, ever since Dunant reemerged and was made iconic for his role in the Geneva Convention three decades earlier. When she first wrote to him, Sutt- ner confessed she had assumed he was dead. Now that he had won, it was time for image management. In fact, Dunant had explicitly observed in his epoch-making memoir of the Battle of Solferino that the project of making war hu- mane was based on the assumption that there was no way to end it. "Men continue to kill each other," he had written in 1862, and one must "renounce" the hope for eternal peace. Suttner explained to him that she saw things differently: humane war, with its interna- tional conventions, could, as certain Red Cross affiliates had privately hoped, prove "a step along the path toward a possible convention not to wage war." That concession hardly minimized the risk in Dunant's victory. Suttner implored Dunant: "Give me a few lines, please, in which you prove that you are a bearer of the white flag"-not merely someone who "humanizes war" but "one of those who (after war has been humanized) wants to abolish war." Advocates of peace like Suttner worried from time to time that humanizing warfare would rule out its elimination. And the sniping back and forth between proponents of the two goals was far more open and vivid before World War II than in any era since. The truth was, though, that the peace movement need not have worried, since for all its failures the cause of making war more humane was faring worse. Humane war did not get off the ground, so it could not yet threaten peace. States began to engage in more international law- making after Dunant's Geneva Convention, but they took advantage of Geneva'