zing the hell of Vietnam hardly means that he was wrong that Korea-and the whole history of American war before it-was far worse. And not just for victims but also for the idea that a law calling for humanity might matter to their fate. At the time, almost no Americans complained about the new in- humane war in the name of global peace. But if Korea began a history of flouting new international rules of peace, it was also just another episode in a long history of no-holds-barred violence. For Americans, such harsh tactics were continental before they went global, culmi- nating in Korea before going into decline even by the time the Cold War moved to Vietnam's killing fields. True, a war with less atrocity than Korea-more rules against inhumane fighting and some inter- nalization of them-is hardly setting a high bar. But if American war over centuries sent many soldiers and civilians to the grave, the cur- rent "humanity" of America's wars could arise only on the grave of their historic forms. IN 1942, WITH THE REALIZATION THAT HIS DREAM WAS BOTH CLOSER than ever to being achieved and moving in an unforeseen imperial direction, Quincy Wright had published his summa. A Study of War, a fifteen-hundred-page behemoth, sought to bring the science of the causes of war and the foundations of peace onto a new plane. Wright showed no reason-he found barely a leaf of paper in his forest of prose-to mention the value of making war humane. After 1945, he was only half-satisfied that his search for the conditions of durable peace had ended. In the aftermath of the Korean War, Wright was still hopeful. |157 The United Nations remained a work in progress. A decade later, in the chilling winter of Cold War antagonism, he was less confi- dent. Material conditions might allow "world government," but- Wright commented in 1960-"the moral basis for such government is still lacking." Thirty years after his campaign for a new U.S. for- eign policy in the 1930s, he wondered: Was the long pe