1968, or when Algerian sheep herders got caught up in French counterinsurgency in 1958, or when Malayans suffered under similar treatment from the British in 1948, to say nothing of the genocidal brutality of centu- ries of earlier expansion and rule. European empires routinely touted the humanity of their ends, bringing "civilization" and "progress" to the world, while Americans-more regularly treating their country's global superintendence as glum necessity and unchosen evil-have transformed warfare by embracing the humanity of their means. Our moral focus on the persistent violence of war, against civil- ians and detainees as well as even fighters in the field, surely still makes a great deal of sense. The same vigilance is required for do- mestic policing, as American events in 2020 proved again. The inci- dence of unacceptable American violence, abroad and at home, is too high to conclude otherwise. And yet the worst aspect of the coming of humane war may be this: the physical violence is not the most disturbing thing about it. DURING THE YEARS OF ESCALATING DRONE WARFARE. THE PENTAGON began publishing "road maps" for an even newer approach to war. The final destination would be full automation, with less and less human involvement-except for the victims. Buzzing overhead but also self-driven on the ground, or skating the waves or patrolling underneath them, weapons that do not require human operators have become the fever dream of the future of war. And as the laws of war have struggled to keep up, the scary fact is that current princi- ples augur a new stage of war: humane control with much less direct human control. Decades ago, robotics specialists anticipated an "army of none," | 319 | but it has become imaginable only with recent advances in comput- erization and miniaturization-and the pressure of America's war on terror. Autonomous weapons systems, after all, are the ultimate no-footprint weapon, promising to put military drone operators out of their jo