ced into a separate camp system, and 20,000 died, most of them children. On both sides of the international struggle over the morality of the war. pro-Boer and pro-British, the treatment of Africans went almost en- tirely ignored, though it was generally far worse. The most famous British activist to address the treatment of Boers in camps, Emily Hobhouse, referred the problem of Black people to the Aborigines Protection Society. It was far more opportune for peace activists to focus on the plight of white people. But doing so reflected and rein- forced the commonsense view that the argument about rules of war and the value of human life depended on race. The African presence in the war surfaced only briefly for Doyle. Interning white women and children might look bad, but, he offered. it would have been an even more "ineffaceable stain" to leave defense- less white people "without shelter upon the veldt in the presence of a large Kaffir population." "No woman on a lonely farm was safe amid a Black population, even if she had the means of procuring food," he explained. Without mentioning Africans in camps, Doyle remarked that it had been exceptionally high-minded of the British to keep it "a white man's war" and to do so "wisely and well." Had native Africans been given a bigger role in the conflict, Doyle explained, there would have been no pretense of generosity. It turned out that at The Hague Britain hadn't, after all, joined its fellow European states in banning expanding bullets (the United States didn't either). Fortunately for the Boers, Doyle suggested, it was a matter of policy for "these two enlightened and humanitarian powers" simply not to shoot the expanding bullets "in a war with the white races." Regrettably, there had been some mix-ups in South Africa and some ammunition meant for target practice had snuck into a few pouches during live exchanges. If the rules of war were | 103 | flexible in counterinsurgency against white people, they were inap- pl