ay have been accidental that Swiss gentlemen captured the cause when they founded the Red Cross in the 1860s, and that as a result Geneva remains to this day the city most associated with making warfare more humane. Still, after their own minor civil war in 1847, the Swiss had fewer other problems to solve and low levels of political conflict by comparison with other countries. A cipher named Henry Dunant was in the right place at the right time to give Swiss gentlemen a high international task. A pious Calvinist, he had restricted his moral engagements as a youth to familiar causes such as relief for the poor and support for orphans, and all on a local scale. He was on a business trip when he wandered onto the stage of history. Though there only briefly, he got a star turn in the drama of humane war. In the 1850s, Dunant represented Genevan investors in the busi- ness of settling the new French colony of Algeria, and he acquired his own land in the territory. Hoping to convince France's Emperor Napoleon III to grant a water concession so that Dunant could irri- gate his property, he set off to find him during a French war with Austria in its northern Italian holdings in June 1859. Dunant ran across the site of the Battle of Solferino in Lombardy, where the big- gest clashes of forces since the time of the first Napoleon had just occurred-and was horrified by what he saw. Leaving the battle- field, he continued his search for Napoleon III, whose attaché curtly turned down Dunant's business proposition. He then returned to Solferino and tended to the wounded. Dunant wrote a pamphlet about the carnage. Describing himself as a "tourist," he narrated the battle (which he had not witnessed) before turning to the aftermath, with bodies alive and dead strewn over more than twelve miles of countryside. It took three days to bury the corpses (not including the horses), amid "a fetid stench." | 25 | In emotional prose, Dunant described how soldiers lacking water lapped it fro