neteenth century was the Englishman William Cobden, who insisted that free trade could someday unify humanity where Christianity had graph- ically failed to do so. The American Non-Resistance Society never numbered more than two hundred members and was shuttered after a decade. To achieve greater impact, the movement would have to shift away from Christian ethics. It would have to make compro- mises, especially with those who proposed arbitration schemes and supranational organizations that did not establish a complete ban on armed force in all circumstances. Fragmented by tenacious debates over the use of force to destroy slavery, the U.S. wing of the peace movement declined through the coming of the Civil War. In Europe, by contrast, it took off after  HUMANE | 22| THE WARNING 1850. Lulled by more than three decades of post-Napoleonic peace, the continent's burghers and Christians were shocked by the Crimea events and then the Austro-Sardinian War of 1859. Across the Atlantic and in the United States, peace circles debated a recurring issue: Was it permissible for a state to undertake "defen- sive" responses when unbidden attacks occurred? Should pacifists scorn those who left room for some wars? Many were skeptical from the start about any exception for self-defense, which later became almost the sole legal basis for war in the United Nations Charter of 1945, as it remains today. Any exception, purists said, could easily become the pretext for aggression. As one agitator angrily put it, "A peace society which allowed a right of defensive war was one to which a Tamerlane or a Napoleon might consistently belong." Meanwhile, a new breed of internationalists offered scores of pro- posals for peace through the second half of the nineteenth century. Often they relied on international law, envisioning new bilateral and multilateral treaties. Sumner, to take only one example, proposed the use of international law to banish war. Tolstoy was to be more skep- tical that sta