Y LATER, ACROSS THE PACIFIC OCEAN IN ITS burgeoning overseas empire, the United States found itself em- broiled first in a conventional war and then a decades-long counter- insurgency. It received the Philippines in the peace treaty following America's brief, decisive, and glorious war with the mother country of Spain in 1898. There was just one problem: Spain's bitter oppo- nent in the Philippines, the diminutive former mayor Emilio Agui- naldo, wasn't buying it. On his return from exile, Aguinaldo, still only thirty years old, declared a republic after taking control of most of the country during the imperial handoff. He then fought his new master tooth and nail. After the United States put down Aguinaldo's armies in their strong- hold in and around Manila, a protracted rebellion followed. Aguinaldo, with no previous fighting experience, succeeded in leading a guerrilla resistance, which sprang up across the islands. Even after Aguinaldo's own capture in March 1901, it lasted for years, especially in the Muslim Moro provinces. For Americans, the legal situation was clear from the start. As with "Indian war" before, they were simply putting down resistance in their justly claimed lands. It was not an international war. Where the United States had waited decades on the original Geneva Con- vention of 1864, the Senate promptly ratified the new Hague rules of 1899 in 1902. But even after it did so, the international treaty governing the fighting of war wasn't formally applicable, since the conflict was not a war between nation-states but between the United States and its disorderly imperial subjects. Still, the hot contest and the deployment of a humongous military presence meant it could be conceived as a war, and some rules of fighting might matter. In the Boer War, the United Kingdom had faced opponents such as William Stead, who cited chapter and verse from a new treaty calling for restraint (for white people). By contrast, the United States waged its biggest camp