. The idea of making war more humane had roots in practices of restraint in warfare deep in the mists of his- tory. The idea that peace was available in human affairs, by contrast, was a genuine novelty. One Quaker complained that because people could not envision a world without war, they acquiesced in it as "in the rising of the sun, without any other idea than that it is part of the ordinary processes of the world." Yet Enlightenment theorists and nineteenth-century movements arose convinced that there was no need to wait for the end of days when, as the biblical prophets had promised, nation would not lift up their swords against nation, nor learn war anymore. Now modernity afforded a new sense of possibility. Other plagues, such as hierarchy, poverty, and slavery, also came to seem, especially after the French Revolution, eliminable rather than eternal. It was suddenly credible that, even if animal aggression was eternal, hu- man beings could transcend it through self-reform and finally put the scourge of war in the past. The evil that pacifists condemned had to be reimagined as a practice that could be brought to an end. "All his- tory is the decline of war," Ralph Waldo Emerson explained in 1838. The trouble was that "the right of war remains." To spread the word that war ought not to be tolerated as or- dinary, Americans founded the first nongovernmental associations aiming at pacifying international relations in 1815. Soon, their fledg- ling activism was dwarfed by British movements, thanks especially to the Peace Society, formed in 1816. By the later nineteenth century, Continental Europe was awash in peace mobilization, too. For a long time, it was Christians, citing the example of Jesus himself, who most frequently dreamed the dream of an end to war. For many proponents of a peace mobilization-Tolstoy not least- pacifism followed simply from taking Christianity seriously. A few transatlantic sects, such as Anabaptists, Mennonites, and Quakers, had for ce