950, when General Douglas MacArthur weighed an extraordinary choice on which the future of the world order turned. The United States had helped divide the Korean Peninsula after the Japanese were expelled in summer 1945, and helped the local strongman Syngman Rhee consolidate power in the south. When the Communist leader Kim Il Sung crossed the 38th parallel in the sum- mer of 1950, the United States quickly committed to assist South Ko- rea against the onslaught. MacArthur's troops were driven to the last hills around Pusan, in the extreme south of the peninsula, beyond hope or rescue. But with an amphibious landing of 270 ships bear- ing 80,000 marines in the barely guarded harbor of Inchon, not far from the largest Korean city of Seoul, MacArthur daringly snatched victory from the jaws of defeat. In one of the most miraculous re- versals of fortune in military history, MacArthur drove Kim Il Sung back beyond the 38th parallel from whence he had come. The status quo before North Korean aggression in June 1950 had been restored. Would MacArthur keep going? It was momentous: besides the extraordinary brutality and death in the Korean War, MacArthur's decision to step beyond the 38th parallel destroyed the prospects of a Pax Americana under international law. MacAr- thur's choice meant that America's age of ascendancy in world pol- itics would be not only a merciless one of endless war for decades in the global south-but also one in which the rules of peace that the United States had crafted in 1945, and enforced at Nuremberg against the Nazis, did not apply to its own acts across a long arc of territory in the Asian "rimland" of bloody contest between two systems. When Kim first invaded the south in June, the United Nations Security Council had met and condemned the Communist aggres- sion. To that point, the plan of internationalists was working: not that eternal peace would take hold magically but that its disturbers could be identified and interdicted. An accident