bate raged through the 1930s, those who had objected to U.S. entry into World War I were no longer seen as vin- dicated by events; now they entered the ranks of the disastrously shortsighted. A broad consensus about the arms industry's nefarious role in history, and in the outbreak of World War I in particular gave way. Now the industry was glamorized as crucial to the defense of democracy across the ocean. Six months before the Lend-Lease program and a year before Pearl Harbor, President Franklin Roo- sevelt devised a scheme to "sell" the British fifty destroyers-and Attorney General Robert Jackson justified it in a remarkable opin- ion. The deal brought down accusations of an executive power grab in violation of the Neutrality Act and international law. Along with other "internationalists," Wright contended it was legal. The spat over the destroyers was just one episode in a broader campaign to bring the United States into global conflict. Wright ful- somely supported broader interventionist policies, working actively in the Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies. In early 1941, he celebrated the Lend-Lease program because it signaled that the United States had edged to the brink of putting German aggres- sion down. The peacemonger was arguing for American war. To what kind of internationalism would it lead? Air war was going to be cen- tral to the answer. THERE WAS NO GREAT DEBATE OVER CIVILIAN BOMBING BEFORE OR during World War II-or even after it. At The Hague in 1899, when only the century-old possibility of bombing from hot air balloons ex- isted, aerial bombardment of any kind was banned for five years. Be- fore those years were out, the airplane had debuted at Kitty Hawk, Astonishingly, it was imaginable from the beginning that aerial target- ing might someday become humane and precise. At The Hague, the U.S. delegate and army captain William Crozier, with a record of fight- ing the Sioux after graduating from West Point, had anticipated this deve