ne on "to wage it with humanity." The | 99| world did not see the affair the same way. Leaders of the peace move- ment, including Suttner and Tolstoy, inveighed against the outbreak of the Boer War. Not long before, the Hague peace conferences had led statesmen to issue sententious paeans to the goal of avoiding war. Now those paeans were put to the test. In Britain itself, W. T. Stead, fresh from his peace crusade, summarized the case for acknowledging the extent of British atrocity. His mission was to hold up "the mirror to the face of War" so that his nation would have "a vivid picture of the kinds of deeds for which as a nation and as individuals who have approved of the policy of the nation we shall have to answer at the Day of Judgment." He creatively pointed to legal violations-at least when they involved crimes against fellow white people. Like a ragtag assortment of "pro-Boers" in British politics, Stead had attacked the war openly from its outbreak. His compilations of wartime atrocities were made in the name of ending the vio- lence rather than making it humane for its own sake. If Stead ever felt-like other peace leaders-that insisting on a more humanely conducted war might inadvertently abet its endurance, he did not complain of that risk once counterinsurgency was raging. "The dif- ference between barbarism and civilization is," he insisted, "largely to be measured by the extent to which nations, when they appeal to the dread tribunal of war, abide by the rules which the experience, not of philanthropists, but of soldiers, has found to be indispensable." Far from treating humane war as an unholy substitute for no war at all-as Suttner and especially Tolstoy had done-Stead relied on the fruits of the Hague conference to build his bill of particulars against British violations of the new international laws of land warfare. A breakthrough speech by the opposition Liberal Party leader, Henry Campbell-Bannerman, in June 1901 denounced "methods of barba- ris