ts and merely "inflict various degrees of minor annoyance" enough to bend the savage will. In the same spirit, the British international lawyer J. M. Spaight mused soon after that air power "is capable of transforming the whole face of war almost beyond recognition. It can turn the old, crude, hideous blood-letting business into an almost bloodless surgery," to "the immeasurable advantage of mankind." There was no reason not to turn to humane war, he insisted, though it would profoundly change war's meaning, making it completely un- recognizable in a new form. "War, after all, is only a means to an end." But Churchill's plan for humane control proved unlikely to work logistically. It was also feared to provoke ire among Europeans who had lived through gas shelling on the ground in World War I, so standard bombs were used to pacify native resistance from the sky instead. There was never a very clear distinction between civilians and combatants, especially in insurgencies. The hope was to burst the morale of enemies by using the terror from the air pioneered in the colonies. Not many were very concerned with whether such tactics broke any laws intended to make war more humane. For all its success in pressuring for a peace politics for Europe, the transatlantic movement against war did not prevent the rise of air control in the colonies, with grievous consequences later. As air power came to the fore, states rested content with the failure of attempts at The Hague to specifically regulate aerial bombardment. In Washington in 1922 and The Hague again in 1923, states met to consider regulation, tentatively agreeing to limit air power to "military objectives." Though the term was easy to define broadly, some authorities were willing to interpret "military objectives" nar- rowly and anticipated today's prevailing notion that real military gain is prohibited if disproportionate to civilian harm. The draft rules on aerial sorties specified that where military objectives were