n to disintegrate in stages after 1850, proposals accumu- lated with a vengeance. Overwhelmingly, the leading early cause was the mistreatment of soldiers, especially when they were wounded on the battlefield. The wars of the period had already galvanized women's activism to help wounded soldiers. In fact, it was a set piece of the public morality of the age. Florence Nightingale, eminent Victorian, became one of the most idealized do-gooders of all time for her work ministering to her empire's wounded soldiers in the Crimea. The American Dor- othea Dix made a pilgrimage to Constantinople in hopes of meeting Nightingale-who was then enjoying international veneration that outstripped even the patriotic celebration of victorious armies. Dix decried the deplorable preparations of the Union Army's Medical Bureau after the carnage of Bull Run in 1861; the nurse Clara Barton, who would go on to found the American branch of the Red Cross, got her start healing the Northern wounded. But there was no formal system that would permit philanthropic engagement in wars and make it a regular feature of the conflicts of states in the self-styled "civilized world." To go beyond the ad hoc organization of local remedies, a collection of elites would need to come together and cajole states into conducting their clashes within "civilized" limits, at least on paper. When generals like those at Sevastopol did not do the work on their own, humanitarians were needed. The time was ripe. As high politics increasingly depended  HUMANE | 24| THE WARNING on public legitimacy, and the public included not just bloodthirsty zealots but organized peacemongers, states could split the difference between freedom of action and the appearance of virtue through showy agreements on paper to humanize war. It may have been accidental that Swiss gentlemen captured the cause when they founded the Red Cross in the 1860s, and that as a result Geneva remains to this day the city most associated with making warfa