d in legal terminology simply be- cause it represents that holy symbol, the law," Wright insisted. For that very reason, part of the internationalist's agenda was to canon- ize a new and superior arrangement of power in the world in a legal scheme, one shaped by enlightened public opinion, and shaping it. One reform plan quick to take shape during World War I was to hold legally accountable despots and madmen who disturbed the peace. Already in 1918, calls were rife to try the German Kaiser for initiating the conflict-but not for the numerous war crimes of his forces in the field, starting with their atrocities in Belgium on the way to the trenches. One of Wright's first publications explained how it ought to be plausible under international law to hold Wilhelm II accountable for his biggest crime, which was starting a war, with all the catastrophes to which that decision led. Most of the early public uses of the phrase "crimes against hu- manity," now associated with grave atrocities during war, allocated responsibility for war itself. They came from the British prime min- ister David Lloyd George and other entente politicians who intended to target the German leader (if not because war itself was illegal, then because of his violation of Belgian neutrality, guaranteed by treaty).  HUMANE |70| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS As the war closed, Lloyd George reacted to what he called "a growing feeling that war itself was a crime against humanity." "The war was a hideous, abominable crime," he thundered at one point, "a crime which has sent millions of the best young men of Europe to death and mutilation ... The men responsible for this outrage on the human race must not be let off because their heads were crowned when they perpetrated the deeds." Similar cries of the Canadian prime minister and Italian president for postwar justice indicates how popular it was in 1918-19 to call war itself, rather than its attendant cruelties, a "crime against humanity." (The Kaiser fle