at its first conference, and later second woman (after Suttner) to win the Nobel Peace Prize, continued her activism. The indefatigable and well-known feminist pacifist Lu- cia Ames Mead, a former piano teacher, had gotten her start before World War I with Suttner's endorsement. She kept the presses roll- ing long after, insisting that if Americans had banned "man-selling" in law in the nineteenth century, it was going to be the turn of "man- killing" in the twentieth. (She was crushed to death in the Boston  HUMANE | 68| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS subway in 1936, saving her from seeing the short-term routing and long-term consecration of her work to come.) Outright pacifists remained inveterate in their cause but were dwarfed by those willing to minimize the chance of war at the price of compromise with states. In old and new media-with the best- selling compilation of photographs The Horror of It (1932) remind- ing audiences of World War I's depredations, Hollywood making a movie of Remarque's novel within a year, and World Peaceways tak- ing to the radio waves-peace propaganda washed over the public. It was an extraordinary mobilization never to be repeated, except in the Vietnam years. The midwestern Christian socialist-turned- pacifist Norman Thomas took over the Socialist Party of America after its founder Eugene Debs died, and he began his six runs for president in 1928. Through the 1930s, Thomas agitated against the coming of another world war as fiercely as he had opposed the first as a conscientious objector. Joining this nationally famous rebel in the Keep America Out of War Congress in 1938 was Jeanette Rankin, the Montana congresswoman (still the only one in history) who had voted with forty-nine others against U.S. entry into World War I. Three years later, she would cast the sole vote against war after Pearl Harbor. THE THORNY QUESTION WAS HOW TO FINALLY REALIZE SUTTNER'S dream of peace in the aftermath of war. It was here that Wright, a legal expert