t Nuremberg would extend to all war, and therefore which wars-and which American wars-would be deemed ille- gal. Jackson had insisted that the new regime for punishing aggres- sive war had to be universal rather than a smokescreen for victor's justice. "The record on which we judge these defendants today is the record on which history will judge us tomorrow," Jackson pro- nounced eloquently, insisting that the United States take seriously in its future conduct its punishment of the aggression of other states. "To pass these defendants a poisoned chalice is to put it to our own lips as well." And even more important than the risk of hypocrisy in the future was the interdiction of aggressive war-including in the name of self-defense. Nuremberg implied that aggressive war must be stopped before the fact, instead of merely punished after the fact. At San Francisco in the summer of 1945, the United Nations Charter was finalized. Even as the Pacific War continued, interna- tionalists such as Wright appeared to get what they wanted-but with provisos that risked reversing everything, leaving the rictus of ongoing war behind a smiling mask of peace in good times. The Charter instituted a Security Council with a monopoly on legal force, except when nations act in self-defense. And it was empowered to deem lawless false or pretextual claims to acting in self-defense. Yet the devil was in the details. Everyone understood that American in- ternationalism mutated in the course of World War II. Wright's form was marginalized by those who wanted the United Nations to look like a federation but function without any constraint on its most powerful members-most definitely including the United States it- self. "International law has a secondary position in the Charter," one  HUMANE | 144 | | 145 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE American commented just after its promulgation. "The pendulum of political thinking has swung," he added, from an idealist vision of internationalism "to th