utality," Clausewitz explained. Concerns about how gory and grue- some the commitments to intensity could become were petty. "The fact that slaughter is a horrifying spectacle must make us take war more seriously," he allowed, "but not provide an excuse for gradu- ally blunting our swords in the name of humanity." As he observed, "Sooner or later someone will come along with a sharp sword and hack off our arms." Dunant founded the international law of war. But it fell to a disci- ple of Clausewitz's to offer a brutal answer to the humane aspirations of the Swiss and their descendants-to offer the first national code for fighting. Born in Prussia, too, in 1798 or 1800, Franz Lieber was a young enlistee who saw action near Waterloo, before fleeing to the United States in the repressive years leading up to the abortive 1848 revolution. Francis in America (and Frank to his friends), Lieber re- fused to pity victims of war. Lieber's code went in a different direc- tion, legalizing shock and awe, with humanity a fringe benefit rather than a true goal. Opinionated to his core, Lieber said pacifists were the ones who really deserved compassion. "How much are those to be pitied," he explained in a widely used ethics textbook that he published in 1839, "whose hearts remained cold" at "the nobleness of human nature" on display when a "citizen [is] bleeding and dying for his beloved coun- try." Lieber wrote to the American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfel- low's wife, Fanny, saying the truth was that "blood" was the "vital juice" of civilization. (As for those lily-livered pacifists in his time who cited Jesus's command to turn the other cheek, Lieber was apo- plectic: "Christ taught principles," he acknowledged, but they were "not absolute mathematical formulas [and] if the various passages of the Bible were to be taken literally, no book would contain greater contradictions.") When he was given the chance as a Columbia University law  HUMANE |30| THE WARNING professor and governm