x million Jews died in history's most notorious crime. The main prior- ity for world affairs was the establishment of international peace. But a few turned their attention to changing the rules for fighting war. The year 1945 might not have seemed like a propitious time to pick up the laws of war, dust them off, and try again. After all the wretched things that had been done in the war, wasn't that idea among its fatalities? Yet it was precisely during the interval between the end of U.S. hostilities in one area of the Pacific and their begin- ning five years later that the most famous rules of war-the Geneva Conventions of 1949-were framed. What lessons had been learned? That depended, as always, on which options states were forced to take off the table under the pressure of public opinion, and what  HUMANE | 146 | | 147 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE options they sought to retain in view of the wars they still expected to fight. Even with a nervous and tentative European peace in place, few expected the great powers to stop fighting globally. One reason was that European empire was far from dead. And the United States, the new titan, was on the way to taking its place as ultimate guar- antor of order. Decades later, once the Geneva Conventions became central to far more widespread aspirations for humane war, they would take on new significance in culture and law. In their own time, they registered the horror of World War II only selectively. Most important, while they were slightly more humanitarian in content than any previous laws of war, the Geneva Conventions were designed to be largely inapplicable to colonial and counterinsurgent war-and if they did apply, to be unenforceable. At the time, West Europeans antici- pated anticolonial opposition they were not yet above callously suppressing, while Americans were soon to embark on globalized war-in Korea, for example. The International Committee of the Red Cross drove the process of cajoling states to suppo