ly and anticipated today's prevailing notion that real military gain is prohibited if disproportionate to civilian harm. The draft rules on aerial sorties specified that where military objectives were "so situated that they cannot be bombarded without the indiscrim- inate bombardment of the civilian population, the aircraft must abstain from the bombardment." If taken seriously, that provision would have imposed an enormous legal check on aerial practices, forbidding the destruction of cities in Britain, Germany, and Japan that occurred during World War II. The draft rules also prohibited bombing "for the purpose pose of terrorizing the civilian population." But after finalizing the wording, states did not ratify the agreement, leaving it on the drawing board as a hypothetical bar to mass death from the sky. One reason was that bombing had become essential to maintain- ing colonial order and meting out punishment. Having initiated the tradition of bombing the savages in Libya in 1911, Italy returned to it after World War I. The new Fascist government used bombing to es- tablish control over the Libyan interior, a campaign that lasted until 1931. After raining fire down on the town of Tetuán in their colony of Morocco in 1924, the Spanish pursued a ferocious counterinsurgency in 1925 against rebellious Berbers in the Rif, the mountainous area that bordered French Algeria and extended into it. The Rifians "come of a white race," as one chronicler of the events acknowledged at the time. Unfortunately, however, they had been "warped by generations of suffering and hate." Worse, intermarriage with Semitic invaders had corrupted any innate virtue the Rifians might have boasted. "From childhood," their boys were "taught to make war" and "have the look of frightened eaglets, suspicious but 'out for blood.'" With their fathers, they responded to enemies with "the innate cruelty of a primitive race." Spain answered the mayhem with more than hyperbole. The poison  | 128 | | 12