ld when it came to the likely effects of making war humane. And he didn't ever precisely explain whether and why all vio- lence was really proscribed. Tolstoy once diffidently acknowledged that killing a mosquito was allowable. Setting a mousetrap, even if immoral, was less momentous an act of violence than injuring a horse, he added. But he never did offer a persuasive answer to why, even in the face of a violent attack, violence was never acceptable (other, of course, than that Jesus had said so). At the end of his life, asked about Lincoln on the centenary of his birth, Tolstoy called him the "only real giant" of modern history because "he loved his enemies as himself."  HUMANE |36| THE WARNING He didn't mention that the U.S. president had gone to war with those enemies, too, however reluctantly. But as his late texts washed over Russia and then the rest of the world, bands of "Tolstoyans"-and later nonviolent activists such as Mohandas Gandhi and Martin Luther King, Jr .- mobilized in re- sponse. Americans such as Jane Addams and William Jennings Bryan were far from the only ones to make a pilgrimage to Tolstoy's estate, and many more consulted him by post. And it was popular to found communes, as Gandhi did in 1910 outside Johannesburg, to live out Tolstoy's ideals. (One of his last American disciples, taken by his de- piction of Christian life in its early decades, set up a still-existing Tolstoyan farm outside Spokane, Washington, originally as a refuge for Vietnam-era conscientious objectors.) Others ruefully concluded that Tolstoy had allowed the worst part of himself, his philosophical tendencies, to overwhelm his writ- erly gifts and especially his genius for character and detail. "It is the greatest misfortune to the human race that he has so little power of reasoning," the philosopher Bertrand Russell remarked contemptu- ously. Tolstoy's own biographer chastised him for becoming a "de- nouncer of obvious evils in an obvious way," deeming his pacifist ou