winner Norman Angell claimed in his classic The Great Illusion (1909). It was precisely this reality, he contended, that could allow the case for peace to transcend the moral admonition that had failed badly so far. Selling millions of copies on publication and translated into twenty-five languages, Angell's analysis convinced readers that the material conditions for universal harmony were at hand. The peace movement's proposed tool, legal treaty, looked better than it had in earlier decades, thanks to a fashionable new spate of international lawmaking after 1850 in other areas. Beyond all else, the movement put its weight behind the promotion of schemes to morally cajole or legally compel states to peacefully negotiate their differences so that they would never reach the point of war. The | 55 | creation of a congress of nations seemed infeasible for the time be- ing. And so it was arbitration that attracted most support among activists, especially Americans, and from governments, in the half century before World War I. Indeed, it was widely believed that a system of arbitration among states would avoid the trouble of set- ting up a more formal international organization of nations. Calls for disarmament also surged. A universal system of binding arbitration among states had orig- inally been proposed in the 1840s by an American, William Jay, who was a son of one of the country's founders and first Supreme Court chief justice. The idea was to encourage or force states into a system in which nonpartisan outsiders would adjudicate all or at least some of their differences. American enthusiasts saw it as a federalization of the world that would do for fractious nations what the Constitu- tion had done for their previously fractious states in 1787. To gain traction for a multilateral system across the Atlantic, advocates of arbitration often proposed that individual states could agree to bi- lateral treaties with partners that called for arbitrating any disputes that a