R THREE Laws of Inhumanity IT WAS AN OUTRAGE. WHEN BERTHA VON SUTTNER LEARNED THAT HENRY Dunant might win the first Nobel Peace Prize for the year 1901, she sprang into action. Why was the founder of the International Red Cross even being considered? "In Nobel's will there is not one sylla- ble about 'humanitarian' things," Suttner wrote to her friend Alfred Fried, a fellow Viennese who had decamped to Germany to run the most important pacifist newspaper of the era, and who would him- self earn the Nobel in 1911. Suttner was in a position to know. Years before, she had worked briefly for Albert Nobel, the Swedish chemist and magnate who had invented dynamite, and she had also advised him on what purposes his vast wealth could serve after his death. "Instead of aid for current misery," the prize "demands and supports abolition of future condi- tions of misery," she insisted. If the very first prize recognized a "wel- fare tendency" when it came to war rather than honoring those who planned its extinction, the message would be disastrous. "I would regard it as a misfortune for the cause (even though I would not be- grudge the old man)," Suttner explained, "if a Red Cross man, that is a war humanizer, were to be called the most deserving element in the peace cause." Dunant won anyway. He was chosen along with the French- man Frédéric Passy, a onetime schoolteacher who had founded a  HUMANE |80] | 81| LAWS OF INHUMANITY French pacifist league and was the foremost (male) European peace activist. The joint awards gave the impression of some indecision on the Nobel committee about the compatibility of the campaign to end war and the desire to make it more humane. Suttner, a close associate of Passy's, liked to cite his dictum on that question: "You do not humanize carnage-you condemn it because you are in the process of becoming more humane." Once Dunant was chosen, Suttner turned to damage control- attempting to promote Dunant as a peace activist while downplay- ing his c