rsion, and work- ing on his own, Tolstoy centered his interpretation of Jesus's message on the same passage that had inspired Ballou's nonresistance ethics fifty years before-Matthew 5:39: "But I say unto you, do not resist an evildoer." No church of which he could remain a member, Tolstoy insisted, could allow "approval and acceptance of persecutions, ex- ecutions, and wars." When the son of the now deceased abolitionist William Lloyd Garrison read these initial religious writings, he was struck by Tolstoy's convergence with American prophets of nonvio- lence. And so he sent the famous Russian the biography of his father he was composing, which so impressed Tolstoy that he made a deep dive into his honored predecessors. He even inquired of his corre- spondent whether their pioneering Non-Resistance Society was still open for business. Tolstoy settled for writing a preface to the condensed version of the biography of Garrison that a disciple produced at Tolstoy's direc- tion, and he celebrated the reformer as "the first to proclaim" non- resistance "as a rule for the organization of the life of men." (Tolstoy didn't address Garrison's difficult and different choices when aboli tionists faced the dilemma of violence.) Ballou's nonresistance theol- ogy made an even deeper impact. The Massachusetts reformer was still alive in Hopedale, and after a neighbor sent his books to Tolstoy, Ballou and Tolstoy began a lively correspondence that ended only with the American's death in 1890, which shattered Tolstoy "as that of a close friend." For the elderly Ballou, Tolstoy had gone mad in the monomaniacal extremes to which he took Ballou's own argu- ments. But Tolstoy didn't mind. The Cornell University founder An- drew Dickson White, a long-distance visitor to Tolstoy's estate, was shocked when Tolstoy insisted in conversation that Ballou was the "greatest of all American writers." Never one to avoid the opportunity to pen a lengthy tome, Tolstoy was so affected by his America