r. And I wondered: When and how had those standards become relevant in the first place? To understand these developments struck me as crucial-and not just for reckoning with our past. We had made a moral choice to prioritize humane war, not a peaceful globe. Pondering this choice might help us avoid mistakes in our future. The result is an antiwar history of the laws of armed conflict in the American experience. Its goal is to trace one of the subtlest de-  HUMANE PROLOGUE velopments in warfare since September 11, a development that may leave an enduring mark. America's distant history includes almost unending examples of brutal war, though also a contribution to dreams of organized peace. Our very recent history includes the cat- astrophic quagmires of Afghanistan and Iraq, with war crimes along the way. But as the presidency of George W. Bush wound down, it also-and in response-allowed an innovative new form of war to emerge instead of peace. Barack Obama perfected it, and even Donald Trump contin- ued it. The network of bases the United States maintains abroad for "unmanned aerial vehicles," the anodyne name for armed drones, ex- panded, along with their deployment to surveil and strike. In an es- calating wave, each of the three recent U.S. presidents before Joseph Biden took power turned to the Special Forces more and more fre- quently. And cyberwarfare has become more and more routine. These tools have introduced a novelty in the annals of military violence: they have made belligerency more humane. The American way of war is more and more defined by a near complete immunity from harm for one side and unprecedented care when it comes to killing people on the other. It is informed by the standards of international law that constrain fighting. Most remark- ably, America's military operations have become more expansive in scope and perpetual in time by virtue of these very facts. And it is possible that this is only a stage in a continuing transition toward less a