ing the ultimate goal of final peace in mind at the same time. But his father made a gross error in thinking that peace was utopian. "There is no problem so small that its solution in the better way is not worthwhile." War was the problem from hell. But it could be solved. For every skeptic who said that the mounting political hostilities that had climaxed in World War I proved definitively that peace was beyond reach, there were droves of survivors of the horror who de- manded that statesmen never loose such a blood-dimmed tide again. Certainly, in the summer of 1914 it had not seemed that pressure for peace would result from the war. Europeans on all sides were fervent for victory, a gory one if necessary. In spite of a generation of peace activism, patriotism surged in Europe to the point of swamping oppo- sition. Even socialists who claimed to represent workingmen across borders and who had regularly stood for peace in international affairs in various crises ended up embracing the war when it came. Almost as floridly, the leaders and members of peace movements sided nearly | 65| unanimously with their respective countries' decision to go to war in August 1914. Even in the United States, the die was cast when some progressives and socialists took Wilson's rationale for one last war seriously in 1916-17, although Wilson soon engaged in a ferocious crackdown on dissent as the intervention began. Perverse as it may seem to say so, World War I was also "the great war for peace." The death of ten million soldiers and forty million ci- vilians, at a price tag of $200 billion (more than $3 trillion by today's reckoning), made the old warnings of the peace movement about the stakes of conflict seem both justified and prescient-once war fever passed. Over the course of its terrible four years of death, what had been a marginal agenda became central to national life everywhere and global diplomacy forever, beyond the wildest dreams of earlier generations of activists. Iron