more humane also had a role in this story, and that element requires attention precisely because such reform is always a good thing. It is easy to overlook it or down- play its coexistence with evil outcomes or ignore how it helped those outcomes seem more righteous to more observers. The story of the humanization of war is about how bad things can happen to people who want to be good. If light- and no-footprint conflict represents the future, it's in part due to the wreckage of the Middle East that heavy-footprint Ameri- | 13 | can wars have left behind. But it is also due to the reformist zeal for humane war. Together, both factors afford the United States more legitimation among citizens and spectators who endorse or tolerate war in part because of its contemporary humanization. In this com- bination, precedents are also being set for future wars, including ones conducted by other powers. It is precisely because this evolved version of military force is different that activists and audiences should be fully aware of the risks. Unless pursued in tandem with an impassioned commitment to controlling the use of force in the first place, this new form of war is especially apt to endure in time and spread in space. Calling for more humanity in war is hardly a bad thing, while aiming for intol- erable cruelty always is. But if we accept that humane war involves unexpected risks, the lesson is to embrace more peace, in order that our future advocates do not ensure humanity in wars they accept too complacently, and that our future leaders are not allowed to brag of their achievement of less brutality, while waging too much war. WHATEVER THE INTENTIONS OF ITS DESIGNERS, AMERICA'S "FOREVER war" shows for the first time that war-for all its sickening violence- can be transmuted into a system of humane control. It forces the recognition that the peremptory command to minimize suffering is not enough. The ultimate stakes of regulating conflict ought to be a world freer from do