tates conclude a Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property that expands the list of off-limits targets in war and provides for the return of property after hostilities. 1955: The United States formally ratifies the Geneva Conventions. The Swiss gentleman Jean Pictet finishes a doctoral thesis rebrand- ing the laws of war "international humanitarian law" (IHL), and as International Committee for the Red Cross leader in future decades sees the label accepted as the proper one for what legal regulation of war aspires to achieve. 1965: As the escalation of the Vietnam War begins, Secretary of State Dean Rusk publicly announces that the United States "has always  APPENDIX | 330 | APPENDIX abided by the humanitarian principles enunciated in the Geneva con- ventions and will continue to do so." 1968: At a Tehran Conference to celebrate the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as in a United Nations General Assembly Resolution, it is proposed that human rights apply in situations of armed conflict, not simply the protections of the laws of war. 1977: Supplements to the Geneva Conventions called Additional Protocols formalize a ban on targeting civilians for the first time and impose a prohibition on "excessive" collateral harm, now in- terpreted to mean harm disproportionate to anticipated military advantage. While the first protocol updates long-standing rules on "international armed conflict," the second protocol goes far beyond the slim rules in Common Article 3 for "non-international armed conflict." The United States never ratifies the agreements, though it does signal that it accepts some of their content as unwritten law- leaving the country free to decide which parts. 1985: The United Nations Convention Against Torture prohibits torture and cruel, inhumane, and degrading treatment in all circum- stances, both within and outside the territory of states that ratify. The United States does so in 1994. 1990-91: The first Gulf War, ordered by Pre