No such controversy about the applicability of the law occurred when it came to nonwhite foes. Unlike Hadjo, the Modoc chief known to white men as Captain Jack got a trial fifty years later, but not because it was legally required. Born around 1837, Kintpuash-as he was called among his own- was hanged on October 3, 1873, at Fort Klamath, just over the Oregon border from his tribe's Northern California home. From the U.S. gov- ernment's perspective, Captain Jack had violated the most sacrosanct of the laws of war when he shot down a U.S. general in a peace talk. Kintpuash had not technically killed Edward Canby. The Modoc faced a campaign of extermination. In the tribe's holdout in the lava beds of the area, Kintpuash and fifty Modocs lived for more than five months eluding capture and confrontation, assenting to a chat on Good Fri- day, April 11, 1873, about how to resolve the standoff. After screwing up his courage, Kintpuash followed through on his plan for premedi- tated killing, shooting Canby at point-blank range. His weapon mis- fired, and his second shot caromed off Canby's cheek, before one of Kintpuash's men executed their foe in the melee that followed. George Henry Williams, attorney general under President Ulys- ses Grant, solemnly affirmed that the military could do whatever it wanted with Captain Jack. A New Yorker who moved to the Oregon territory as a judge and then, after switching parties, became a one- term Republican senator for the newly spun off Oregon state, Wil- liams almost became Supreme Court chief justice. (Grant withdrew his nomination as rumors flew that, as attorney general, his man had spent government funds on his wife's fancy horse-drawn carriage and footmen). In summer 1873, in an opinion endorsing the pro- priety of an ad hoc commission later cited by President George W. | 107 | Bush's lawyers, Williams said the law allowed the drumhead court that General William Tecumseh Sherman proposed. "It is difficult," Williams suggested, "t