ment, and not only because of the authoritarian and even reactionary politics of its main advocate. Why the conference had been called provided as much fodder for windy debate as what it could or should achieve. But it was clear that the cause of peace had achieved an unprecedented breakthrough. When he heard of Nicholas's rescript, his third cousin Wilhelm II the sybaritic Kaiser of the German empire, reportedly exclaimed: "Holy Bertha!" Even a gruff Tolstoy momentarily warmed to the prospect of concord among states, through their own agreement when pressed by their own publics. The tsar's interest in the conference was political as much as prin- cipled. The arms race had brought Russia to the brink of financial ruin, with the Anglo-German naval rivalry rushing toward its cli- max. But Nicholas's personal interactions with Jan Bloch, with his predictions of the obsolescence of war, also stood behind the tsar's call for a durable peace. Given that Western states had recently and unequivocally refused to sign on to more arbitration or disarmament schemes, the tsar's initiative was a providential surprise, and the peace movement stood to gain an advantage from it. The European peace movement threw itself into furious prepara- tions to redeem its promises, as the conference site was fixed in The Hague, a palace of the Dutch monarchy. W. T. Stead, the leading Brit- ish newspaperman of his age, added momentum (or stole it, according to annoyed old hands in the cause). Founding a mass subscription | 57| magazine, War Against War, to chronicle the event, Stead publicly called for an international "peace crusade." States would have to be pressured to heed the tsar's call to abandon war for good, or at least to halt their frighteningly destructive and ruinously costly military buildups. (When Stead, who also popularized Bloch's thinking in En- glish, died on the Titanic in 1912, not the least of the tragedies is that it deprived him of his Nobel Peace Prize, in what was said