ing war or making it more humane per- tained to the globalization of the European empire, already centuries old, that continued into the twentieth century-or that they applied to American overseas expansion in the same years. After all, the very era that saw the rise of the peace movement and the early steps to- ward humane war also saw the height of global expansion and the hardening of what has been called a "global color line." The peace movement itself was always the affair of white men and women, not only in terms of who participated but also in terms of who was supposed to benefit. As "clearly as the ultimate destiny of our planet is manifested in the progressive conquest of the globe by the English-speaking race," W. T. Stead wrote in 1891, so, too, did they "possess the secret of the salvation of the world." A deep influ- ence on the peace advocacy of Andrew Carnegie "I am as you are a Race Imperialist," the steel magnate wrote to the newspaperman a  HUMANE | 92| | 93 | LAWS OF INHUMANITY decade later-Stead propagandized a coming American peace in the form of an Anglophone union. The "murder of men by men" that peace advocates such as Car- negie wanted to stop did not rule out bloodcurdling atrocities be- yond the European and transatlantic space. Those few voices who might have demanded a global peace transcending human difference would have been abandoned by comrades who thought that a white peace established by force in a world of racial hierarchy was the en- tire point. As late as the 1930s, many American and British observers thought the Kellogg-Briand Pact-the famous attempt to outlaw war for good-portended the Anglophone or white ascendancy that had partly motivated peace politics for decades. Yet the regulation of how war was fought remained even more profoundly racialized. Colonial war was forced into a nether zone of asymmetrical if sometimes conventional conflict, counterinsurgent suppression to restore order, and imperial provisions licensing eme