he opponents of the British could get within a half mile of their lines before being mowed down. By the end of the morning, the Dervishes had lost half of their forces, while Kitchener reported a mere forty-eight of his own men dead. The disparity was either awe-inspiring, sickening, or both. The future prime minister Winston Churchill, who had fought in northwest India at age twenty the year before in the aftermath of the Afghan War, was a lieutenant at Omdurman, deeming it "the most signal triumph ever gained by the arms of science over barbarians." The laws of a scientific age did not prohibit asymmetry and still do not. Only occasionally more ticklish was the fact that whenever Europeans treated non-Europeans differently while fighting coun- terinsurgent wars, they blew past limits whether old or new. Most notably, they declared war on whole populations. For most of its history, international law was generally in tune with imperial and increasingly racialized projects. Even when racist assumptions were lacking, the liberal idea of international law was that global peoples needed to be brought under the stewardship of the civilized. Martens, the great Russian international lawyer, is still famous for his clause in the Hague treaty holding that what the law of war prohibited specifically did not necessarily exhaust the general obligation to treat enemies humanely. Speaking for his profession, however, he stated bluntly that "Muslim peoples and pagan and sav- age tribes" were not admitted to the society of nations, or covered by international law, though by keeping their commitments to one another civilized states could "set a scrupulous example" for their inferiors. The very fact that the rules of humane war were routinely said to symbolize "civilization" meant that those peoples considered "uncivilized" were beyond the pale of the protection of the rules by their very sponsors. A rare exception to such patterns, the Swiss international law- yer Joseph Hornung pro