ant ranks, its music and beating drums, its waving banners, its generals on prancing horses, but war in its real aspect of blood, suf- fering, and death." The sketch concludes with nationalist hopes for Russian victory, but its concern for wounded soldiers already led in a different direction: not to aspirations for better treatment but to grim reflections on the propriety of the enterprise of killing. Then everything changed. In the second sketch, set six months later, in May 1855, brief concern evolved into barbed criticism. After six months of siege, the reports of bullets and the shriek of cannon fire rang in his ears as they were traded from ramparts to trenches daily. And the "angel of death hovered unceasingly," for in a stalemated confrontation "the question the diplomats did not settle still remains unsettled by powder and blood." But Tolstoy did not conclude his sketch with powder and blood. Rather, he chose a truce that had been established for humane purposes. And he found the morality of caring for soldiers' bodies during a pause in the fracas wanting. Beneath the incongruously resplen- dent sun, the officers of both sides manage to agree to a truce during which each would take responsibility for its dead and wounded. "Yes, there are white flags on the bastions and the trenches but the flowery valley is covered with dead bodies." The scene was certainly sickening: "Hundreds of men, with curses and prayers on parched | 19 | lips, tossed and groaned," among "the corpses in the flowering val- ley," "the bodies of men who two hours earlier had been filled with all manner of hopes and desires." While the officers chat across lines about tobacco, the caregiving takes place before the engagement resumes. About the ability of warring armies to agree to a moment of hu- manity during hostilities, the sketch is caustic. The humane treatment of the wounded does not interfere with the greater evil of war, Tolstoy reflects, let alone lead to peace. "Thousands of peop