trife. "All is van- ity, all falsehood, except that infinite sky," Andrei meditates. Tolstoy died shortly before war began to colonize the heavens, and he could not have imagined our age of drones. But his warning has never been more pertinent than it is now. Today, Tolstoy is being proved right, and Walzer wrong: the humanization of America's wars has become a part of the syndrome of their perpetuation, not a step beyond them.  CHAPTER TWO Blessed Are the Peacemakers IN 1891. LEO TOLSTOY READ LAY DOWN YOUR ARMS. A NOVEL PRO- claiming the need for peace. The book, written by the Austrian no- blewoman Bertha von Suttner, had taken America and Europe by storm and made its author the second-most-famous woman in the world. (Queen Victoria was the first.) Suttner would win the Nobel Peace Prize, which she had helped inspire, in 1905. She was the first woman to do so. In the previous two decades, no one had done more to broaden and popularize the transatlantic movement for peace. Tolstoy didn't think much of Suttner's artistry, he told friends; but the moral importance of her cause led him to write to her with a tribute anyway. The novel was "a happy augury," he enthused. "The abolition of slavery was preceded by the famous book of a woman, Mrs. Beecher Stowe; God grant that the abolition of war may follow upon yours." If they were lucky, Tolstoy hoped, Suttner would raise consciousness of war's evils so that the old law protecting war would crumble and a new one prohibiting it-God's law of love-would take its place. Forgotten today, Suttner and her fellow peace activists ushered in a new moral order in which politicians at least have to pay lip service to the ideal of peace, even when they wage war. Her flaws and foibles were many. Yet the peacemakers were the true seers of our world today, one in which war is deemed immoral and illegal,  HUMANE 148| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS with infuriating but narrowing exceptions. And though few could have predicted it during her t