hu- manity during hostilities, the sketch is caustic. The humane treatment of the wounded does not interfere with the greater evil of war, Tolstoy reflects, let alone lead to peace. "Thousands of people crowd together, look at, speak to, and smile at one another. And these people- Christians professing the one great law of love and self-sacrifice-on seeing what they have done do not at once fall repentant on their knees." Instead, they pick up where they left off: "The white flags are lowered, the engines of death and suffering are sounding again, innocent blood is flowing and the air is filled with moans and curses." The exhibition of humanity was little more than a pause amid death-dealing. Humanity might even make it worse. What Tolstoy could not yet know was that a decade hence another battle would prompt the invention of international law for humane war. Rafts of new treaties covering more topics have since followed, protect- ing soldiers in more situations along with more kinds of people- civilians, especially-and regulating means and methods of warfare, too. As for Tolstoy, he went a different way, refining and elaborating his suspicion that making war humane only allowed it to break out more often or drag on endlessly. AMERICANS ONLY RECENTLY HAVE COME TO FACE A BINARY CHOICE between two forms of interminable war: intense or humane, dirty or clean. Some time ago, Americans were at the forefront of another possibility: pacification. The ambitions of those Americans exerted an enormous influence on Tolstoy and on twentieth-century politics before almost disappearing in the twenty-first. The transatlantic peace movement was one of the most extraor- dinary novelties of the nineteenth century, the more so since it was  HUMANE | 20| THE WARNING genuinely unprecedented. The idea of making war more humane had roots in practices of restraint in warfare deep in the mists of his- tory. The idea that peace was available in human affairs, by contrast, was a genuine novel