- vention rules without ceremony. Then there was the aerial bombardment. There is some evidence that the United States Air Force was ordered under protest to be more discriminate in its targeting in the early months of the war. While more care was taken in fall sorties compared with the win- ter armageddon, however, it was "precise" only in comparison with what followed. And early air control often involved direct partici- pation in atrocities, like the strafing of hundreds to add insult to the injury of the No Gun Ri massacre. When Mao Zedong sent his Communist troops across the Yalu River to save Kim's regime, the United States still continued to en- joy absolute air superiority, and used it with no further constraints The air force bombed the north mercilessly throughout the winter as U.S. troops and their allies retreated south. More tonnage was dropped than had been used over Japan five years earlier, and also more napalm, which was greeted by Americans who witnessed | 155 its effect as a miracle weapon. Unlike fifteen years later, no one protested. Curtis LeMay, now head of the Strategic Air Command back home, later claimed credit for the ashen burnscape. From the begin- ning of the Korean War, he had advised the use of incendiary bombs, which had worked so well in 1944-45. When MacArthur finally let the air force do its worst, every town and even village of note in the north was reduced to smoking ruin, as fighters strafed those who tried to put the fires out. "The city I'd seen before," one American testified, "wasn't there anymore." During the retreat south to the 38th parallel, meanwhile, ground forces torched farms and food- stuffs. Many of the Korean civilians who survived were left without shelter or sustenance in temperatures so cold that an untold number who did not perish in the bombing froze to death on the road. Korea was the most brutal war of the twentieth century, measured by the intensity of violence and per capita civilian deaths. In three yea