strove to extend and stabilize his rule, notably by carrying out vindictive repression and slaughter in Cheju Island off the tip of the peninsula. The Korean War, like Vietnam later, inter- nationalized an ongoing civil war; indeed, as many may have died in the south in the three years before official U.S. intervention in June 1950 as in the fracas after. Atrocities were committed by all parties to the war, notwithstanding promises to adhere to the laws of war in their new guise-including by Americans, who routinely shot civil- ian refugees. The machine-gunning of hundreds of civilians at No  HUMANE | 154| AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE Gun Ri in July 1950 became the most notorious of such incidents, af- ter finally being reported in 1999 and confirmed in the controversies that followed. After MacArthur crossed into North Korea, he operated under a National Security Council directive issued the previous month that called for "liberation" rather than "retaliation," forbidding the United Nations troops he led from "reprisals against the forces, of- ficials, and populace of North Korea, except in accordance with in- ternational law." As MacArthur pushed north, Rhee's men followed behind, hunting down suspected Communists and executing their family members, especially after Chinese troops were on the march southward. "We cannot execute them," one American said of cap- tured Koreans who turned out to be Communists, testifying to honor- able concern for already old prisoner-of-war rules. "But they can be shot before they become prisoners," he added with a wink-an early example of how minor legal constraints around detention could drive states to kill. Another voice added the proposal to turn prisoners over to Rhee's men to do the dirty work, which broke one of the new con- vention rules without ceremony. Then there was the aerial bombardment. There is some evidence that the United States Air Force was ordered under protest to be more discriminate in its targeting in t