or the Hague treaties of 1899 and 1907 were never framed to exclude global peoples explicitly, and they operated on top of cus- toms of engagement, or even underlying principles of natural law, that a few took to be applicable everywhere. But the rules-and es- pecially their interpretation in policies and on the ground-clearly were different in spirit and especially in practice when it came to counterinsurgent and colonial war. An older tradition of treaty-making with non-European peo- ples actually waned as modern times progressed. By the nineteenth century, few believed that the "uncivilized" peoples of the world could even join treaties. In the very century when the law of war solidified, racial theory more and more defined the understanding of human difference, including religious diversity, across the world. The "semi-civilized" Ottoman Empire ratified the Geneva Conven- tion protecting wounded soldiers in 1866, but no Asian country did for another thirty years. As for Africa, its few existing states at the time, notably Ethiopia and Liberia, did not join-though, presum- ably under Moynier's influence, Leopold ratified the treaty for the Congo when it was his private estate. By the early twentieth century, the rest of Africa, like much of Asia, had been made part of the domestic space of empires, including America's in the Philippines. It was, theoretically, a huge breakthrough that the Hague treaty implied that any force fighting conventionally- under responsible command, with open arms and a visible insignia, and following the rules of war-earned protection of the rules. But conventional engagements happened outside Europe much more rarely than within it. More important, the overwhelming majority of colonial violence took place within empires. As such, it was not sub- ject to any international law, which did not purport to regulate the "domestic" affairs of private ranches like Leopold's Congo or even of far-flung polities on which the sun never set. A DECADE