re decisively beaten and fled into the Florida Panhandle wilderness. Apprehended a few years later by Andrew Jackson, leading U.S. forces in a reign of terror at the head of the Tennessee militia, Hadjo was hanged without any legal proceeding-not deserving one, in Jackson's estimation. In the midst of America's Civil War, the Prussian American Fran- cis Lieber issued Rules for the Union Army that purported to codify the unwritten rules of war. His project shared almost nothing of the aspiration for humane war that Swiss gentlemen breathed deeply across the ocean at the same time. And he restricted the code to conventional rather than counterinsurgent war. Each of "the Ma- rauder, the Brigand, the Partisan, the Free-corps, the Spy, the Rebel, the Conspirator, the Robber, and especially the Highway Robber," Lieber concluded, was no more than "a simple assassin." Essentially no limits applied to their treatment. "They know what a hazardous career they enter upon when they take up arms," he offered, trying to come off as avuncular. In the Civil War itself, the general practice of Union forces in the field (who didn't need Lieber's advice in this regard) was harsh. They shot on sight anyone deemed a partisan. As for anyone suspected of falling into that category, the most rudimentary trials approved their  HUMANE | 106 | LAWS OF INHUMANITY execution. If Lieber didn't bother to mention "Indian war" in his learned survey of how European examples of irregular partisan war could inform American rules, it was because it was so obvious that no rules applied to it. In the Civil War, a controversy arose over how to treat bushwhackers and John Singleton Mosby's Virginian cavalry battalion, which maddeningly crossed Union lines in secret. All were found fair game for harsh treatment. No such controversy about the applicability of the law occurred when it came to nonwhite foes. Unlike Hadjo, the Modoc chief known to white men as Captain Jack got a trial fifty years later, but not b