Spanish empires, often in the name of "Christian justice," legal codes constrained what masters could do with their human property, without challenging their right to it. But in the 1790s, and especially after the fearful specter of slave revolt in Haiti, planters across the southern United States and the British West Indies accelerated a turn to a rhetoric of "amelioration," which ended in the same place. This amorphous term could mean many things. In the island sugar colonies of the British Empire, especially in the quarter century be- tween the ban of the slave trade in 1807 and the Slavery Abolition Act of 1833, most planters had understood the need to answer moral criticisms of human bondage. They therefore asserted that their slave- holding was changing in form, and taking the sane path between stagnation and revolution. Production was made cheaper and more efficient, to demonstrate its modernity (and increase profit); slaves were better fed and treated-not worked to death and replaced so frequently, as in decades before. Everyone understood such "amelioration" to serve the long-term endurance of the slave economy. And activists worked to find reforms slavers would accept, urging legal reform to enforce limits on treat- ment, such as the 1826 Slave Code. In his epistle to the Corinthians, Paul recounted that he was given thirty-nine lashes by the Jews, and masters disciplining slaves through flogging were sometimes limited to that number as an upper limit for each day (or in each session). And reforms often ruled out whipping slave women altogether. One law in Berbice, in British Guiana, explained that slaves needed to be treated "with such humanity, that Love and not Fear may operate, as motives for their good conduct to their Masters." Amelioration occurred in British North America, too, and (after the American Revolution) the southern states of the new republic. In- deed, the West Indies retained a reputation for cruelty and mortality to the end of enslavem