an prime minister and Italian president for postwar justice indicates how popular it was in 1918-19 to call war itself, rather than its attendant cruelties, a "crime against humanity." (The Kaiser fled to the Netherlands, which refused to extradite the queen's "Uncle Willy.") As this rhetoric indicated, the war on war that peace advocates had initiated now became the premier goal of international affairs. More constructive were new institutions that would preserve the peace to which World War I finally led. The very first of the pre- ambular purposes of the League of Nations Covenant worked out at the Versailles Peace Conference in 1919 marked "the acceptance of obligations not to resort to war." This first bid at international organization bound signatories "to respect and preserve as against external aggression the territorial integrity and existing political in- dependence" of member states. This high verbiage was easily the biggest diplomatic success the cause of peace had ever enjoyed in world history. But it masked a harsh truth-states still had considerable latitude to resort to force. And famously, the United States remained outside the League af- ter the Senate failed to approve the Versailles treaty. For the Amer- icans and others who supported binding legal arbitration and the pacific settlement of disputes, the war ended with their dreams not realized but smashed. Even within the League, the primary solu- tion was to give each nation its own power to keep the peace rather than transfer authority or power to any international organization to do so. Nine new "nation-states" were created in Eastern Europe where three now-defunct empires had once ruled, with the hopeful | 71| assumption that contention would be replaced by harmony. But ad- vocates of systemic peace were not giving up. Another popular idea was disarming states. If they retained carte blanche to conduct war, reducing their weaponry would at least make the consequences less cataclysmic. This wa