ower in Paris, incubating radical democratic ideals as it faced down the gruff rejection of France's newest republic. In May 1871, when the French Army entered Paris amid pitched battles, thousands died and no rules for combat were seen to apply in one "bloody week." In this new era, civilian resistance confronted occupying armies but also ruling governments everywhere. States feared that strug- gles on foreign territory could make their occupations complicated. They also increasingly worried that their own citizens might rise up and make revolution. In response, the 1874 Brussels Declaration on the customs of war set out on a very different trajectory than the Geneva Convention ten years before. The Swiss plan for humanity in warfare would remain marginal for a century. | 83 | In Brussels, representatives of European states excluded nongov- ernmental actors such as Red Cross functionaries and codified what they said were existing rules for war, beyond the Geneva Convention protection of wounded soldiers and those who set out to heal them. The results strove to give states maximum control over potential chaos, licensing harsh occupations so that they would not devolve into partisan wars. The point was to protect soldiers from enemy ci- vilians, not the other way around. As for internal wars like the sup- pression of the Commune, international laws of war were not relevant by design. Swiss and other philanthropists who claimed humanity would suffuse war through the operations of international law were blind to the fact that their initiative was co-opted by European governments. For states, international law proved useful, making it more legiti- mate to suppress new challenges to their authority. It was definitely not what Dunant-who scraped through in Parisian exile during the Prussian siege and the no-holds-barred French suppression of the Commune a few months later-had had in mind. International lawyers, who emerged as a profession in the 1870s, accepted the sham a