n example of peace." Celebrating the enfranchisement of Californian women the year before her visit to San Francisco, Suttner cast it as one more sign that America would "lead the lion of European milita- rism and the bleeding lamb of the people to a resting place." The trouble was, for a long time it had been difficult to imagine the prospect of the United States playing the role of peacemaker. It may have been the state most identified with peace, but that was only because of its refusal to traffic in war outside its hemisphere. Yet there was no denying that by 1914, in spite of its Civil War and resulting late start, America boasted perhaps the richest peace culture of any transatlantic state. In addition to commonalities with Western Eu- rope, the country's peace culture relied on two distinctive resources. The nation's unreconstructed Christianity and geographical isolation  HUMANE |60| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS meant that Americans-especially in the agrarian Midwest-could make up for their lack of exposure to the bloodbaths of European war with a fervency for the cause of peace that Europeans could not always match. The 1823 "doctrine" of the fifth U.S. president, James Monroe, forbidding new European colonization in the Western hemisphere was unclear enough to allow for warring interpretations throughout the nineteenth century. William Seward, secretary of state at the time of the Geneva Convention, even believed Monroe's framework ruled out U.S. ratification of the treaty for humane treatment of wounded soldiers. The Civil War nurse and philanthropist Clara Barton, who learned of the Red Cross in 1869 on a health cure in Europe, where she witnessed the carnage of the Franco-Prussian War, came home and faced resistance in coaxing her country on board. Seward's son Frederick, serving as assistant secretary of state, "regarded it as a settled thing" when Barton approached him in 1877. After five years of her agitation and under a new administration, Secretary