our world today, one in which war is deemed immoral and illegal,  HUMANE 148| BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS with infuriating but narrowing exceptions. And though few could have predicted it during her time, it was Suttner more than anyone who made imaginable a new American-led peace that would guar- antee Europeans a paradise beyond the age-old imperial strife that culminated in two gargantuan world wars. Indeed, the goal of insti- tutionalizing peace surged, while the agenda of making war humane dithered in the century after Tolstoy first warned against it. Tolstoy kept abreast of the burgeoning transatlantic peace movement as it expanded through the era of his ethical preaching. praising its goals and voluminously propagating the message of its members in his much-read writings. Suttner and Tolstoy agreed that peace had to become an expectation and norm before anything else. But they differed about how advocates for peace should pro- ceed. Tolstoy insisted that refusal to serve states alone would do the trick. "For the disappearance of war there is no need of confer- ences," he warned her. "As long as every man at the age of twenty or twenty-one abjures his religion-not only Christianity but the commandments of Moses ('Thou shalt not kill')-and promises to kill all those whom his superior orders him to kill, even his broth- ers and parents, so long war will not cease; and it will grow more and more cruel, as it is already becoming in our day." Suttner loved conferences. Individuals who heard Tolstoy's call across Europe-in books, articles, and letters to sundry correspondents-struck their blow for peace by refusing to serve. Tolstoy himself also championed the pa- cifism of whole communities such as the Dukhobors, a Christian sect in the Caucasus persecuted by the tsar. (Tolstoy later helped fund the mass exodus of the Dukhobors to Canada.) But his refusal of com- promise with states struck many who shared his goals as pointless. If there was any opportunity to make