nd some ammunition meant for target practice had snuck into a few pouches during live exchanges. If the rules of war were | 103 | flexible in counterinsurgency against white people, they were inap- plicable to colonial wars against nonwhite people. Doyle was quite open on this point: "Fighting desperate savages, the man-stopping bullets could still have been used." A few years later, Doyle penned a screed denouncing Leopold's atrocities, The Crime of the Congo, that helped crystallize international public opinion against the evil there. He didn't comment on the dis- tance between his apologetic attitude toward his country's conduct in the Boer War and his passionate denunciations of the immoralities of Leopold's rule. FOR AMERICANS IT WAS MUCH THE SAME STORY. FIRST IN THEIR OWN continental expansion, and then later abroad, rules of war were gen- erally deemed inapplicable to "savage" enemies. "The Indians' fight far differs from Christian practice," dryly remarked Captain John Underhill, the "eccentric daredevil," in his account of the Pequot War of the 1630s, the largest early contest that English settlers fought in America with a native people. It was hardly the last. And it was no-holds-barred on both sides. It was precisely because the Pequots had observed no constraints in killing and kid- napping that they had to be exterminated. The settlers' commander John Mason led Underhill and others in the massacre at the Pequot stronghold near today's Stonington, Connecticut. In a two- or three-acre fort, the Pequots were completely sur- prised in late May 1636 when Mason barred one door, and Underhill the other. In less than an hour it was burned to the ground, with anyone approaching the exit shot; 695 of the 700 Pequots present died. "It was the end of the Pequot nation," a late nineteenth-century historian reported. "The tribe which had lorded it so fiercely over the New England forests was all at once wiped out of existence." No one should be so squeamish as to thi