process had few implications for the actual fighting of war, which the spotty old Hague rules still governed. Even the new civilian convention did not clearly provide new protection from ae- rial bombardment by conventional or nuclear weaponry, and it didn't challenge the idea that any amount of military gain could justify any amount of innocent death. What today seem the worst cruelties of World War II were not the problem the delegates were there to solve. Part of the reason was that the Holocaust of European Jewry had not become central to public consciousness. And the power of states to deliver death from the sky was viewed at worst as a necessary evil. It was a large achievement to ban civilian punishment, individu- ally or collectively, of the kind typified by Hitler's decision to order the Czech town of Lidice razed in 1942 as a reprisal for the assassi- nation of his trusted aide Reinhard Heydrich. But the new treaty did not prohibit the mass starvation that had killed most civilians in World War I. It had recurred in World War II in Nazi Germany's Hunger Plan-but also in the U.S. attempt to induce mass famine via Operation Starvation in Japan and its shrinking empire of islands. Humanitarians tried for more, but the treaty prohibited only the interdiction of foodstuffs destined for children and expectant mothers, unless there was reason to believe someone else would eat them: "humane blockade." As a default, growing clarity that civilians mattered still meant something. And this spirit also affected Common Article 3, which held that in "armed conflict not of an international character," those  HUMANE | 148| | 149 | AIR WAR AND AMERICA'S BRUTAL PEACE "taking no active part in hostilities," including captured or wounded soldiers as well as civilians above the fray, had to be treated "hu- manely," no matter their "race, colour, religion or faith, sex, birth or wealth." Specifically, humanity barred killing, torture, and other "cruel" or "humiliating and degrad