ty that's routine at home. In this spirit, it can sometimes seem the height of idealism to demand global policing: so humane a form of war that some might question whether it is even war anymore. One group contends, for example, that the laws of war already accepted by states require the capture rather than killing of ene- mies when feasible (though, like most countries, the United States rejects this interpretation, insisting that soldiers are fair game for death now or later, from near or far, and without further ado). And a newfangled movement to defend the human right to life of soldiers themselves would mean that, as in lawful policing, combat could re- quire not merely accepting but inviting surrender of foes. Soldiers' lives matter. It is easy to imagine already how autonomous weapons systems might intersect with such calls to convert war into policing in the spirit of humane control. What if the new robots are not killers after all? What if, one day, they can algorithmically distinguish between the evil and the innocent, or even calculate mathematically how much collateral damage is too disproportionate to be legal? What if they can capture rather than kill adversaries? What if, after inviting surrender, these caring machines only terminate those who flee or re- sist, holding their quarry until spirited off for humane internment? We are nowhere near that utopia of course. The brutal wars of the American past could return. But the main question is whether this utopia would be dystopian in a new fashion, since we have taken un- precedented steps with primitive tools to begin bringing it about. For all his interest in corporal violence, Tolstoy also knew that physical cruelty is not the worst thing we do, and pain is not the quintessence of war's evil. Suffering is a wrong, but a law and politics focused on eradicating or minimizing it could only take its rightful place in a  HUMANE | 324 | EPILOGUE | 325 | broader project of challenging hierarchy in all its fo