eements with native peoples-legal treaties were deceptive to begin with (as Kintpuash felt of one he signed), or disregarded as soon as expansion and settlement demanded it. Second, both before and after this ex- traordinary breach, Americans had themselves recognized no rules of conduct in hostilities. It was a law of war that allowed punishment only of enemies. Kintpuash's father had died when Ben Wright, a settler in Yreka,  HUMANE | 108| LAWS OF INHUMANITY California, rounded up volunteers and rode out to Modoc lands to discuss peace terms, on his own authority. At the meeting, Wright drew on the Modoc chief and shot him dead-just what Captain Jack was to do to Canby two decades later-killing scores of others in the melee for good measure. "Had he slain the entire tribe in fair battle, no just condemnation could have been pronounced against him," remarked one observer, "but to violate a flag of truce, under pretence of peace-making, was a wrong that fair-minded men, every- where, condemn as an outrage against humanity and civilization." As, indeed, they did a generation later-but only when Captain Jack committed that wrong. Following his father's slaughter, Kintpuash became chief, and in 1864 he signed a treaty restricting the Modocs to the Klamath Reser- vation in Oregon. There they would live amid their longtime foe and far from their historic lands, accepting a pittance in exchange for them. Under army escort, the Modocs moved in eight caravan wag- ons with mules the fifty miles north to their new home. But relations with the Klamath Indians broke down, with mistreatment of the Mo- docs tolerated under the supervision of the reservation's government agent. "I just as well die in my own country," Kintpuash concluded grimly. He moved many of his people back south in 1870, setting the stage for the hostilities that followed when the U.S. secretary of war sent a directive to enforce the peace treaty by expelling the Modocs from California. "The treaty was a lie,"