nsurgent phase of the war kicked off. And it had been done neither against orders nor sporadically but as a matter of official policy. But, Doyle insisted, Roberts was careful to limit this act to what the situation required. He was actually being forbearing, especially since Boers had destroyed property themselves in British colonies. True, the Hague treaty, concluded just before hos- tilities broke out and ratified by the United Kingdom in April 1900 while they intensified, barred property destruction. But there was also an exception when military necessity required it, which-Doyle insisted-it sometimes did to clear territory infested by brigands or to deprive shadowy forces of food sources. Worst, farmhouses were frequently used as snipers' nests, in unacceptable violation of oaths taken by disarmed Boer "burghers" to remain neutral as fighting con- tinued. It was right that they were treated harshly. In February 1901, Churchill was just back from South Africa himself as a newly elected member of Parliament. When he had ar- | 101 | rived in South Africa as a journalist, he was caught with a weapon as part of an English company and interned by the Boers in a prisoner-of-war camp near Pretoria. But he was treated well as an aristocratic prize-before he daringly escaped a few weeks later. He had been fortunate not to be shot as a civilian partisan-and almost convinced his captors to release him as a noncombatant. Even so, he argued that counterinsurgency permitted harsh conduct. "His Maj- esty's government would not have been justified," he opined two years after his brush with death and salvation thanks to humane treatment, "in restricting their commanders in the field from any methods of warfare which are justified by precedents set by Euro- pean and American generals during the last fifty or sixty years." More troublesome for Doyle was what was done to those white people deprived of their homes when they were put to the torch, since it had become scandalous acros