the provision of funds. The firms in return accused the ministry of back-door nationalization.7® Because over half the industry was state-run traditional financial 8 ~ Science, Research and Intelligence  Behind the administrative and economic effort to train, equip and operate large air forces lay the widespread mobilization of the nations’ intellectual resources. The need for such mobilization had increased in direct proportion to the increasingly technical nature of warfare. In air warfare the necessity was greatest of all for it was the point at which most areas of advanced scientific and engineering research coincided. In questions of engine power and efficiency, radio and signals equipment, explosives and armament, air forces made the greatest demands. In the most advanced weapons, in radar, rocketry, jet propulsion and nuclear research, the air forces were the first to express serious military interest and through active research made possible their diffusion to the other services. To sustain a high level of technological competence and innovation in the air war required the systematic involvement of the science community. It also required the diversion of large research funds and scientific and technical facilities because of the complexity of the air weapon. The intellectual effort could not be left to the services’ own small engineering staffs, as the First World War had shown. The more widelv civilian and industrial scientists were recruited for war work the more likelv that scientific problems would be solved. Small-scale scientific support might produce a necessarv  Page 192 of 309 70% shown. The more widely civilian and industrial scientists were recruited for war work the more likely that scientific problems would be solved. Small-scale scientific support might produce a necessary breakthrough in a particular field, but what was more important for the air war was movement forward on a broad front of research, making use of what was immediately useful b