ited, tactical air power and those favouring a more general air power.1®! Such a dichotomy became explicit in the first two years of war. The reasons 3 ~ The European Air War 1941-45  The year 1941 was a watershed for the development of the air war in Europe. Before that date there had already been several major battles fought with aircraft and the expectation from the exercise of air power had been high. By early 1941 it was obvious that air power had been greatly exaggerated. Not only had no knock-out blow been successful, no combatant had yet produced an air force equal to the task of inflicting it. All the significant gains in the war had been the result of conventional land warfare. The difficulties experienced in waging the kind of air war that both sides wanted to wage were compounded with shortages of supply on the one hand and technical shortcomings on the other. This was the explanation for the sustained development of the limited use of air power by both German and Soviet forces on the eastern front. Since both sides agreed that little more could be gained by using aircraft in different roles the air war was confined to the massive support of ground offensives. The problem for Germany was that the Allied forces did not agree to a limited view of air warfare. From 1941 onwards the Axis powers were fighting two different air wars, and to the general air war in the west they paid too little attention until it was too late to convert their own air forces to a general strategy too. Luftwaffe co-operation with the army was still of great significance for the land war, but the lack of attention in doctrine, strategy and preparation given to air defence, bombing and the naval war paved the way not only for the Allied victory in the air but for the land victory as well.  (i) Air War on the Eastern Front  On the eastern front the exercise of air power was confined on both sides to the limited role in support of ground armies. In Hitler’s case this was a result of h