K. December 1942, 1 March 1943, 1 January 1945 Germany 30 December 1942, 30 December 1943, 31 December 1944  ‘Overlord’ was not therefore a repeat of ‘Sealion’ as far as the air forces were concerned. It represented the fulfilment of the Allied belief first expressed in 1941 that vast numerical superiority was a necessary precondition for all strategic tasks in the air. It was in the nature of air warfare that Germany would still be able to mount air attacks until virtually the end of the war, but this could not _— ee Se Se — ee ee wo eo ro:   P Ss P Ss y Ss   aaa U.S.A. U.K. Germany Night-fighters - ~ 9,827    obscure the fact that the Allied victory was won through overwhelming odds, as the German victory over Poland had been in 1939. On D-Day the Allies employed 12,837 aircraft, including 5,400 fighters, against a total strength in Luftflotte 3 of 300 aircraft. These aircraft, and the German reinforcements, were shot out of the skies in ten hours. For the Ardennes offensive in December the Luftwaffe massed a mere 900 aircraft for the final effort and these, too, were destroyed in a matter of days.3° This was not simply a result of deficiencies of supply on the German side but was a fact of economic life. Britain and the United States had much larger resources to draw upon. The only way in which such numerical disparity could be overcome was through qualitative advantages; and in terms of technology, too, the Allied powers had a measurable lead in most, though not all, areas of advanced research.31© Having gained such air supremacy, however, it was quite another matter to relate such supremacy to the central strategic objectives. Almost a full year elapsed between the winning of air superiority and the end of the war. During that period a relentless bombing campaign was continued and the Allied ground forces benefited from almost complete air immunity. Yet although this supremacy certainly eased the progress of Allied troops into Europe and reduced German economic