n the eastern front were compelled to fight with biplanes. entire course of the offensive’.235 The almost complete absence of long-range bomber operations was in sharp contrast to the war in the west and the Mediterranean. The Soviet Air Force devoted a front that they could not be reached with other aircraft types’.24° in 1943 prompted the attempts to re-introduce a long-range air strategy. On 23 June 1943 Speer set up a special committee of industrialists to study possible key targets in the Russian economic system. He pointed out that a campaign against the concentrated electricity plants in central Russia could have a possibly decisive effect on the Russian war effort.241 Hitler ignored this suggestion — which certainly involved a degree of precision bombing and intelligence work to which the Luftwaffe was barely equal in 1943 — and instead agreed to the formation of a new long-range force for attacking military industries in the east. The Luftwaffe study ‘Battle against Russian Armament Industry’ was published in November 1943 and the conversion of IV Air Corps under a new Wiederauffrischungsstab Ost completed in the middle of the winter. The plan was abandoned with none of the promised long-range bombers available. The operational preparation was still slight and few resources could be devoted on the scale necessary to have any decisive influence on Russian production.2*2 It was argued, nevertheless, that Russian industry was highly concentrated in large plants and strategic air action against them might slow down the Russian advance. Not even the evidence of how quickly Soviet industry was reconstructed after the initial attack in 1941 reduced enthusiasm for bombing which was seen as the last chance in the east to prevent the inevitable. But the Luftwaffe was frustrated in its efforts by the earlier decision to concentrate on a limited role for air forces and not to prepare for a more general strategy when that might be required.  In the absence of any strate