uftwaffe made its major mistakes, both in estimating the strength of the British air forces and in deciding the necessary level of supply for its own forces. Goering relied on information from his chief of intelligence, Josef Schmid. It was this source that was largely responsible for creating Goering’s own massive over-confidence in the superiority of his air force. In his report issued in mid-July on comparative British and German strength Schmid concluded that ‘the Luftwaffe is clearly superior to the RAF as regards strength, equipment, training, command and location of bases’. German air intelligence credited Britain with an aircraft output of only 180-300 first-line fighters a month and 150 first-line bombers and assumed that under conditions of war these figures would decrease rather than increase.132 This margin of error was significant. Actual British fighter production in July was 496, in August 476, in September 467. Overall production rose from 1,279 (all types) in May to 1,601 in August. Schmid then heavily overestimated German successes. The High Command was informed on 20 August that 644 British weapon that can be directly used against us, of the basis of its existence’.12? the Luftwaffe lacked.13! aircraft had been destroyed between 12-19 August and 11 airfields permanently destroyed when the true figure was only 103 and one airfield temporarily put out of action.133 In fact it was the Luftwaffe that failed to expand during the period, both in terms of aircraft and in terms of pilots. Without adequate supply the kind of superiority needed in the face of well-organized fighter defence could not be achieved. At the end of the Battle of France the Luftwaffe had suffered heavy losses and needed time to rest and regroup. Deliveries of new aircraft were insufficient to meet the continuing drain on resources. This was partly because air strategy had not anticipated such a campaign when production plans were laid in 1939. Even though aircraft production was g