ch on economics, technology and science in the excellent volume of essays edited by Horst Boog, The Conduct of the Air War in the Second World War: an International Comparison (Oxford, 1992), which can be recommended as an introduction to all the major themes of air power history that have Leadership in air warfare has also been well served by many scholarly biographies. Hermann Goring has been thoroughly explored in Alfred Kube, Pour le mérite und Hakenkreuz: Hermann Goring evolved since the 1980s. German wartime technical development in key areas of modern air power weaponry (rockets, drones, anti-aircraft missiles, etc.) is explored by the contributors to Mark Walker and M. Renneberg, Science, Technology and National Socialism (Cambridge, 1993). The wider economic context that shaped what was possible in the economic sphere can be found in another excellent series of essays edited by Mark Harrison, The Economics of World War II: Six Great Powers in International Comparison (Cambridge, 1998). The social and cultural history of air power is the most recent and the most original development of the subject. There are some fine studies of the social impact of bombing during the war. Earl Beck, Under the Bombs: the German Home Front 1942-1945 (Lexington, KY, 1986) and Olaf Groehler, Bombenkrieg gegen Deutschland (Berlin, 1990) cover the whole of Germany, but they are supported  by many local studies in Germany, Italy and Britain. The social history of air forces has produced studies that derive from growing historical interest in issues of gender, health and race. Reina Penningston’s Wines Wamen and Warfare: Saviet Airwamen in World War IT (lawrence KS 201) gives the first fill account in Enslish of the nart nlaved hv wamen in the Red air farce whase histarv  Page 221 of 309 82% Of AMINGASCAGKOT UINEW FlaVell, LZO/}, ALO NOTAIG OCIIALLel, WEISS OF JUUSITEILE LINEW LOLK, 1765). LILETE tlds DECI a EIOWLIIE LEMUCTICY LO OlsCuss VOTTIUITIE 11) TlOrdal Leriils, AVPOLulollii