l.  (i) Air War on the Eastern Front  On the eastern front the exercise of air power was confined on both sides to the limited role in support of ground armies. In Hitler’s case this was a result of his conviction that the Luftwaffe was only capable of working decisively in co-operation with the army. In Soviet Russia it was because the use of tactical air power was Stalin’s own brainchild, brooking no rivals. Although both sides had prepared in a limited way for some long-range bombing activity the bulk of air operations were in direct support of ground forces and in the winning of air superiority over the battlefield. For the Luftwaffe this made the task of preparation relatively straightforward. In the attack on Russia it was intended to use the same combination of air and tank power that had been used in the West. An additional advantage was to be won by achieving an element of surprise against forces that German intelligence continually underrated numerically. So much so that Hitler ordered part of the air force to remain on the defensive in the Reich, and part to continue the attack on English trade at the same time as the attack on Russia.182 Added to the expanding air commitment in the Balkans and  Maeth Afeian Liitlas rnin neannend ta in dactalen an anna in tha nant eith Lanriler dinnncnnd aie favnnn Rialtina an thean av Farin fennta at anan Te tha attaale tan ftbn ale favnn cern aed anend ta nnnnet  Page 56 of 309 18% ee ee ee eee Ee ee EEE ee ee eee eee ee North Africa, Hitler was prepared to undertake an assault in the east with heavily dispersed air forces fighting on three or four fronts at once. In the attack itself the air force was ordered to support the Central and Southern sectors and to eliminate the effectiveness of the Red Air Force there. German confidence lay not only with their own battle experience but with estimates that total Red Air Force strength was only 5,500 aircraft of poor quality; that pilot training was well below standards set i