cient to meet the continuing drain on resources. This was partly because air strategy had not anticipated such a campaign when production plans were laid in 1939. Even though aircraft production was given priority in the summer of 1940 the army held up the transfer of resources and the air ministry failed to press for them. In fact the new air plans worked out in June and July gave smaller totals for the crucial months of the Battle of Britain than the plans published in September 1939. The number of fighter aircraft planned for production dropped from 227 in July to 177 by September 1940.14 British fighter plans for the period were exceeded by 43 per cent where German plans were 40 per cent behind target by the summer of 1940.135 This situation gave real respite to the RAF, which despite heavy and continuous attacks over the period from July to September, emerged with a fighter strength actually larger than had existed when the battle began (see Table 3). The same was true of pilots. British training programmes ran at full stretch to make up for past deficiencies, concentrating mainly on producing fighter pilots to meet the emergency. German programmes were less urgent and less relevant to the battle. Of the large stock of pilots available many were trained as bomber pilots and could not be quickly retrained to fly fighters. As the battle progressed it became obvious that the number of pilots was barely adequate to cover the first five or six weeks. Moreover the Luftwaffe suffered from a problem to which the RAF was immune. Where British pilots parachuted to safety, Luftwaffe pilots were lost for the duration of the war. By the end of September the Germans had suffered not only a sharp decline in fighter numbers but also heavy attrition of the men to fly them.  Page 40 of 309 12%  planned for production dropped from 227 in July to 177 by September 1940.134 British fighter plans for the period were exceeded by 43 per cent where German plans were 40 per cent behind t