n Germany the aircraft factories were slow to adopt new methods and were permeated by many built-in inefficiencies which it proved hard to overcome. One of the hardest had little evidence of modern methods even by 1945.59? The use of capacity was so inefficient that when Milch compelled some degree of improvement in 1942 the industry was able to produce another 40 per cent more aircraft with virtually the same amount of labour and less aluminium than the year before.S°8 Japanese factory methods were even more primitive. Lacking a sufficiently partly of competition between the army and navy who could not even agree on a common voltage for electrical components until late in the war.®9° But as in Germany a major barrier to greater for by expanding production at another. But even in Britain the difficulties persisted long after the threat from bombing had disappeared.?7°° Similar schemes introduced in Germany and Japan broke down because of the threat of bombing and the more random distribution of contracts that resulted. Throughout 1943 and 1944 German manufacturers, while improving productive performance at the main plants considerably, were often forced to slow down the rate of final assembly because of shortages of components.7°! One advantage enjoyed by the Russian factories was the shortage of small firms with whom contracts could be arranged. Instead most of the parts and components were made in the same establishment. Indeed many Russian aircraft firms had their own furnaces and foundries and an internal supply of electricity. Where the Allies enjoyed the opportunities of concentrating production processes, or of arranging careful scheduling, the Axis powers found the conditions of war leading to a growing attenuation of the production process through decentralization, as well as constant and frustrating interruption to the flow of resources.  (vi) Labour and Raw Materials  Differences in the way in which capital was utilized were reflected in the whole questio