Such a situation paved the way for the development of area bombing, a strategy arrived at by a process of elimination. Only Churchill seemed genuinely convinced that area bombing would be capable of cracking German morale based, among other things, on the ill-founded assumption, summarized by the Ministry of Information in December 1940, that ‘all the evidence goes to prove that the Germans, for all their present confidence and cockiness will not stand a quarter of the bombing that the British have shown they can take.’156 Such views blinded many politicians to the inescapable conclusion that bombing policy whether British or German, was not capable on its own of achieving anything decisive under the conditions of warfare in 1941. But whereas the Luftwaffe accepted this fact and moved away from bombing plans, the RAF and the British government took precisely the opposite course. Assuming that the German failure in 1940 had been caused by poor preparations rather than a wrong strategy, plans moved ahead for the development of a massive heavy bomber force designed to raise the bomb war to a new level of strategic significance. Until then, however, aircraft production had to be geared to other, more urgent tasks of defence. Of these the most vital was the Battle of the Atlantic. Although the German effort here was itself rather half-hearted and ill-prepared Raeder had been able to persuade Hitler to devote some resources to exploring the possibility of starving Britain into surrender. For this the German navy needed aircraft, not only to bomb incoming shipping but for reconnaissance purposes in guiding submarines to the vulnerable ships. The exploratory campaign was a considerable success. The Focke-Wulf Kondor long-range aircraft itself sank 150,000 tons of shipping a month during the first half of 1941 although it was slow and very vulnerable to fighter attack. Shipping losses through air action were 580,000 tons in 1940 and over one million tons in 1941, almost half