g operation against the Ruhr was carried out to attack oil and railway installations. The Allied air effort was thus dispersed over a number of objectives with little effect. The conflict between French and British opinions on bombing targets left a situation in which what little air support there was was frittered away in a vain attempt to find some target to which the Germans would be particularly vulnerable. Attacks on the Ruhr in fact were few because of the insistent needs of the French forces and when Germany was attacked oil installations proved very difficult to hit.124 Very quickly Bomber Command changed its objectives. Portal instructed pilots that efforts should be made ‘to bring about continuous interruption and dislocation of German war industry’, in particular aircraft factories. In the event that neither oil nor aircraft installations could be seen then ‘any self-illuminating target or targets which are otherwise identifiable’ were to be attacked. Despite its ineffectiveness Bomber Command had taken the opportunity of the defeat of France to begin to launch a strategic air offensive along the lines planned in the preceding years.125  The first period of the war had not seen the great bombing offensives that had been predicted in the period of preparation. All the combatant powers made great efforts to avoid initiating such a campaign and when the British finally did so it was in an act of desperation to help stem the flow of German forces and in the face of government opposition to what threatened to become a war against civilians. Even this campaign when it began was of little military value and posed no threat either to German morale or German industry. Air forces had primarily proved their worth in land  Page 38 of 309 1% Oe ee eee eeeeEeEeeEeEeEOEeeeeeeeEeEeeEeEe eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ES eee eee ee—e—e—————_——eEeEeE———E——E————————————eee——__—— eee ee for making generous provision for wastage. Even against the Polish air force the Luftwaffe ha