by the Soviet Union with such ill grace.  However, Russian aircraft production was itself providing large quantities of material by the time Allied aid became available, and although both direct and indirect aid was useful, Russia’s own success in the air was real enough. In fact the major bombing offensive and Mediterranean campaign promised by the Allies did not begin until the spring and summer of 1943 and by then the Red Air Force had achieved a high degree of control in the air over the battlefronts on its own. The Luftwaffe was still able to gain control for a short period of time over a limited area, particularly when air forces were concentrated as they were for the assault on Kursk. But this tended to be in the nature of the tactical use of air power. The choice of place and timing for any air offensive gave a good chance for any air force to achieve a temporary mastery. What the Luftwaffe now lacked was the capability either to destroy Russian air strength in its rear areas or to prevent the Red Army’s massive use of aircraft in ground support operations over the eastern front as a whole. By returning to a policy of concentration large areas of the front were more or less abandoned for air purposes. Moreover such a ee eee ee eee eee te) CREE ee EU SAE, CSL LINE RARE ASS Rae 2 AEE TEES LAMY PARSLEY ED PSUR CARE DERE SEER SL MAREE Se CALE SEO. VV 220i) SAIS ING CLIO Lilt switch now suited the Red Air Force since its massive numerical superiority now gave it the opportunity to overwhelm the enemy in large-scale pitched air battles. Throughout 1943 the Luftwaffe was overwhelmed by the sheer size of the Red Air Force as well as by its growing competence. For the summer offensives Russia was able to mobilize 10,000 front-line aircraft over the whole front against a total Luftwaffe combat strength in the west and east of only 3,551 serviceable aircraft. By January 1944 this had risen to 13,500 combat aircraft, by January 1945 to 15,500. The major drive on the Bal