sian successes in Germany and occupied Europe were by contrast impressive. Knowledge of German air force secrets was fed by the Rote Kapelle spy ring, whose key figure, Schulze-Boysen, was an intelligence officer on Goering’s staff. Over 500 confidential reports were sent to Moscow from this source alone, including up-to-date technical information on Luftwaffe developments in aircraft and weapons.84” British espionage also provided valuable information, particularly on radar and secret weapons development. It proved much easier to recruit committed anti-fascists in Europe for espionage work than for fascism to recruit its very limited band of supporters abroad.®48 Air intelligence in the Luftwaffe was not unaware of the shortcomings. In 1944 its chief complained about staffing problems. Not only were there too few officers for all the intelligence tasks required, many of them were retired soldiers brought back into service because they spoke a foreign language and not because they had experience of intelligence work. Moreover relations between Luftwaffe intelligence and the air branch of the Abwehr, whose responsibility it was to actually procure information abroad, were poor for much of the war.842 Allied intelligence services were certainly not free of inter-departmental rivalry, but air intelligence as a whole was given greater prominence in the decision-making process and brought civilian and militarv intelligence resources together more fullv than in Germanv. This was particularlv the case in the vital area of de- Page 207 of 309 76% _ i . i sd aircraft although correct in some respects was in its : overall judgement of the Red Air Force misleading. Yet it was on the basis of such information that Hitler expected a short campaign and that contradicted the view maintained by Luftwaffe intelligence and supported uncritically by Goering.828 The same mistake was made about the United States. Goering’s public expression of contempt produced, helping to lay the found