ed a strategy that included bombing because there were important political and Military arguments 1n favour or it. Aithougn the empnasis on Such bombing objectives were obvious and few, although the emphasis placed on particular targets varied widely from service to service and from time to time as circumstances dictated. Trenchard had always stressed that morale was a key target for bombing. In 1940 Bomber Command began the first of a series of attacks against civilian morale because with the available resources the bombing of urban, civilian populations was all that was operationally possible. What ‘morale’ was or what effect its undermining might have were guesses. Churchill among others hoped that together with subversion in the conquered territories, the threat of bombing would encourage anti-Nazis to overthrow the government and come to terms, but such a policy was hard to justify at the expense of more tangible means of destroying enemy power. Nevertheless the argument about morale, and in particular of the inability of the German factory workers to withstand bombing, was maintained. In order to justify such attacks the Air Staff presented industrial workers as a factor of production which had to be rendered ineffective like transport or fuel. Thus the attack on morale merged into the attack on the economy.42° The civilian attacks were justified further in 1941 by Portal’s argument that ‘the most vulnerable point in the German nation at war is the morale of her civilian population under air attack, and that until this morale has been broken it will not be possible to launch an army on the mainland of Europe with any prospect of success’.42° Morale, too, was presented as a complementary target, without whose reduction the cornerstone of Allied policy, the invasion of Europe, could not be achieved. The American planners argued differently. German civilian morale was not included as a primary target in two main air plans drawn up in 1941 and 1942.42” American ai