as continued and the Allied ground forces benefited from almost complete air immunity. Yet although this supremacy certainly eased the progress of Allied troops into Europe and reduced German economic potential, the war could not be ended except by the occupation of territory. Against a well-armed and experienced enemy ground army such occupation was bound to be a slow process. Air power such as the Allies possessed after the spring of 1944 was indeed overwhelming; yet no way was found  to exercise that air power decisively except in carrying out on a larger scale the kind of combined operations that had characterized all the earlier campaigns in Europe and the Mediterranean. All the kept alive, despite the failure in 1940, by the single-mindedness of the bomber school were confounded by the fact that  great expectations of air power as a distinct war-winning weapon that had been even the winning of the war in the air could not measurably reduce the time that it took to defeat the German armies in Europe.  Page 87 of 309 31% I Ss P S P Ss acacia U.S.A. U.K. Germany Night-fighters - - 9,827 terms of technology, too, the Allied powers had a measurable lead in most, though not all, areas of advanced research.31° great expectations of air power as a distinct war-winning weapon that had been kept alive, despite the failure in 1940, by the single-mindedness of the bomber school were confounded by the fact that (v) The Collapse of the Luftwaffe  To confound Allied theories of air power even more, the German air force itself contributed substantially to its own weakness and eventual downfall. It took some time before Hitler would acknowledge that the initiative in the air war had been lost. Since he saw the air weapon as an essentially offensive force he refused to allow large resources to be diverted to defence at home, and instead increased efforts to produce a German bomber force to rival that of the Allies. Not only on the Russian front but in the attack against England