LLOOPs AWay LLOIT) Lie VALLE ILSEll. If) ACCLLIOL) LE FAITE LICAL alt LILEOLISts CEVELOVE LIE VIEW Lildl Stialeelc army commanders and the immediate battle objective. (iii) Strategic Bombing  The third element in air doctrine, strategic or ‘independent’ bombing differed from tactical bombing because it was operationally distinct from the actions of the ground forces. It did not aim at the direct destruction of the enemy’s forces but at the undermining of a war capability by continuous and long-term attacks on non-military targets. The overall strategic objective remained the same as the objective of tactical air power; to bring about the eventual defeat of enemy armed forces. But in the case of strategic bombing this was through starving them of economic resources and undermining national morale. Even the supporters of strategic bombing doctrines during the inter-war period hesitated to see it as a war-winning weapon on its own. Lord Trenchard, one of the foremost champions of independent air operations, qualified his support by not wishing ‘for a moment to imply that the air by itself can finish the war. It will materially assist, and will be one of the many means of exercising pressure on the enemy, in conjunction with sea power and blockade and the defeat of his armies...’31 Even General Douhet, whose work was not widely known outside Italy in more than a vulgarized form, was primarily interested in how air forces could contribute to the combined efforts of the services in overwhelming enemy forces. He emphasized that air power properly used ‘should lead armies and navies to reorganise on a new basis’, not that air power should replace them altogether. The winning of command in the air was a condition which could only  be fully exploited by the other services.?2 In this sense strategic and tactical bombing became blurred together. Strategic bombing was tactical bombing on a grander, more expensive and longer-term scale.  Not all airmen, however, shared this view.