d men who could be replaced either by older men or by using women and students.2째4 The same labour catchment area was adopted through necessity in the Soviet Union. conditions.7째> Page 181 of 309 66% eS eS ees 2S See eee ee SS eee ee ee a ee oe ee ee ee a en ee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee eee take the younger, semi-skilled men who could be replaced either by older men or by using women and students. The same labour catchment area was adopted through necessity in the Soviet Union. conditions.75 Tha alvaenfe indinteer time a erital Fanta in tha Mie War Tha afiaiant sen nf encauvane nartionlarl: shave Lalnad tha Alling actablich a vant namariqnl sumariacion Tha ven The aircraft industry was a vital factor in the Air War. The efficient use of resources, particularly labour, helped the Allies establish a vast numerical superiority. The use of women in aircraft factories was widespread in Britain (as these two pictures show), the United States and Russia. Imperial War Museum The level of labour mobilization in Germany was much lower until the large-scale recruitment of foreign forced labour in 1942 and 1943. The number of extra women drafted into war work was negligible, particularly in the aircraft industry.2째째 In the struggle for labour resources the air ministry was at a considerable disadvantage politically, since labour recruitment and allocation was controlled by agencies directly linked to the army, and unsympathetic to the Luftwaffe demands. During 1942 the number of workers allocated rose hardly at all despite the large numbers drafted in from Europe.?7 Over the whole period the army continued to recruit skilled workers even in the protected factories. In all the aircraft factories an average of between 45 and 50 per cent of the workforce was composed of foreign labour by the end of the war. This workforce was largely unskilled as far as aircraft producers were concerned, and little effort was made to allocate workers with appropriate skills to the righ