ces. In addition material had to be diverted from new capital investment to satisfy the demands for repairs to damaged factories and communications.42° Similar resources were tied down in Britain and Russia as well, but as the threat from German bombing rapidly receded so did the size of the defence forces against air attack as a proportion of the total war effort. In Germany the reverse happened.  To Allied intelligence the German economy appeared in a different light. The evidence, which was confirmed by the Strategic Bombing Surveys conducted at the end of the war, suggested that the German erannmy far fram daclining fram an earlier neal die ta the inecreacad hamhinge effart wac in fact evnandine at a facter rate than hefnre 500 The etratagic daricinne far euch avnancinn did nat  Page 132 of 309 47% — os ~ /~ -_ in May and June out of the large i ive purposes Hitler ordered its use in repelling the Allied invasion. In July Speer wrote insistently  3 See essential communications resources. In addition material had to be diverted from new capital investment to satisfy the demands for repairs to damaged factories and communications.422 Similar German economy far from declining from an earlier peak due to the increased bombing effort was in fact expanding at a faster rate than before.5° The strategic decisions for such expansion did not stem from the fact of bombing itself, but from the struggles on the eastern front. The plans to expand aircraft production stemmed from the middle of 1941 when it had already been shown how inadequate production was for current needs.°% As the war in Russia widened so the demands for new material escalated well beyond what Hitler had initially expected. It was not bombing that spurred on the German economy to greater efforts, for those efforts were already at the planning stage well before bombing became an economic threat or was perceived as such.  resources, was capable of producing after 1943. After that date Hitler and the economi