strated in its efforts by the earlier decision to concentrate on a limited role for air forces and not to prepare for a more general strategy when that might be required.  In the absence of any strategic novelties in aircraft use on the eastern front, the air war became much more a question of supply and deployment. More supply might, of course, have given the Luftwaffe more strategic flexibility. For the Russians more supply would have meant yet greater concentrations of ground attack and fighter forces at the front. For the German forces, problems with aircraft production, and in particular the crisis of 1941-42, were exacerbated by the fact that air forces had to be widely dispersed against other better armed air enemies. Soviet claims concerning the number of aircraft destroyed on the eastern front were exaggerated, although in the crucial stages before America entered the war fully, the Luftwaffe threw the main weight of its attacks eastwards where it suffered heavy losses. Technical difficulties and strategic miscalculation coupled with dispersion of effort meant that there were not enough resources on any front to gain decisive air supremacy. The situation might have been corrected by policies on supply and top-level organization but even these changes would either have taken years to come into operation or could not avaliable eariler, i flere was, Noweve!, falriy widespread scepticism among Russian leaders that DOMMpDINg Could De Gecisive OF Was WOFTH the diversion Of errort fromm the Main strategic alin. tm aaait1on system. He pointed out that a campaign against the concentrated electricity plants in central Russia could have a possibly decisive effect on the Russian war effort.2*1 Hitler ignored this suggestion few resources could be devoted on the scale necessary to have any decisive influence on Russian production.2? It was argued, nevertheless, that Russian industry was highly concentrated in large be carried out for political reasons. The Luftwaffe wit