orces from Crete. Italian commanders wanted to drive the British out of North Africa and recapture the empire, and although resentful of having to co-operate with German forces were also anxious that Germany should divert more effort southward. Instead Hitler took a new initiative, as he had intended, and moved eastwards.  Hitler’s seizure of a fresh initiative, determined upon even before the Battle of Britain had begun, had substantial repercussions on the air war. The main task in 1941 for the Luftwaffe was the winning of supremacy over the Russian battlefront. The Mediterranean front was a subsidiary and diversionary campaign. Britain could not strike effectively at Hitler in isolation in Egypt or from the British mainland in the foreseeable future. Hitler intended to return to the destruction of British resistance after the short and successful campaign planned for the east. He also intended that the main weight of the attack on Britain should be borne by the air forces, centred around a new force of heavy bombers planned for 1942.17? The attack on Russia was planned according to the experiences of 1939 and 1940 and almost all aircraft were diverted to tactical support of the German armies. The German strategic view was a gamble that Britain would be unable to interfere with German plans in any important way before German forces were once again able to concentrate in the west. Yet this gamble overlooked the fact that Britain’s own war effort in 1941 depended upon the degree to which Hitler was occupied elsewhere. The Russian invasion made it clear that Hitler would not turn west in 1941 and freed British forces for reinforcement in the Middle East and for the build-up of large offensive and defensive air forces at home.  The British emphasis on air power in general in fact coincided with a shift on the German side to an emphasis on armies and the growth of a purely tactical air force, and further strengthened, ina relative sense, the one weapon for blockade and