actual provision for building was in practice only a third of the original quota.*”” Too much money was still tied up, as in Japan, in consumer industries or in below that in Britain and America.°”8 This difference in urgency was reflected in the level of expansion of the aircraft industries. Here the crucial question was one of timing. The British effort to reach a capacity capable of meeting the maximum strategic demands was developed between 1936 and 1941. Thereafter capacity increased only slowly. In the United States the mobilization effort was concentrated in the years 1940-42. By the end of 1942 over 80 per cent of the sums allocated to aircraft production expansion had been spent, and the remaining 20 per cent was mainly for replacement of tools and equipment rather than for factory space.£7° As was to be expected the Axis timing differed in direct proportion to the shifts in Axis strategy. The first expansion period for the German aircraft industry was 1935-38. With the conclusion of the Milch scheme for reaching a balanced peace-time force with a low level of replacement, insufficient effort was devoted to the next stage of expansion, with the result that Germany entered and fought the war for the first two years with a capacity not much greater than the last year of peace, although the industry was so inefficient that a greater output could legitimately have been expected from it. In 1941 and 1942 a renewed effort was made to extend the manufacturing area for aircraft. Large new factories were planned and approved, and in one case actually completed. But under conditions of war, and subject to more adventurous bombing, it proved impossible to expand fast enough. Even under conditions of peace and early mobilization the American industry found that the average time between the start of an airframe plant and full operation was 31 months, and for aero-engines 23 months. In Germany the bulk aircraft parts were made on the premises.$”> The state custom of desi