nt.297 By contrast with production and supply, Luftwaffe military organization had been relatively successful. The absence of sufficient aircraft had been compensated for in part by the good tactical use to which supplies had been put on the battlefield. This meant that the considerable numerical advantage enjoyed by the Red Air Force could not be fully exploited. It also meant that as neither side could achieve mastery over the battlefront, the war in the east became primarily a struggle between opposing armies supported to a rather poor degree by air forces, at least until conditions changed and Russian numbers finally overwhelmed those of the Luftwaffe.  The situation was the reverse with the Russian air force. Supply and maintenance were better than could have been expected under the circumstances but tactical deployment and military organization had been shown to be deficient. The winter of 1941-42 saw substantial reforms. The reforms began right at the top in the creation of the State Committee for Defence on which Malenkov represented air affairs. Below this committee, whose work, like the British cabinet, combined military, political and civil affairs, was a new supreme command (Stavka) that was directly responsible for authorizing the strategic use of aircraft. At a lower level the close and often inflexible organization of army and air force units was replaced by a new system of air armies consisting of mixed aircraft types with an air army commander directly subordinate to the army group commander at the front on major questions of tactical deployment, and to the C in C and Stavka for the strategic movement was reduced to 1,045 serviceable machines on the whole of the eastern front.*** By December this was reduced to 500 machines. The supply of the Demyansk pocket promised by Goering although there was often poor communication due to the enormous demands made on the signals regiments in getting radio and telephone links set up in sub-zero temperatures.12°