ombing strategy was used as a shield to protect the RAF from any further attempt to compromise its autonomy. Bombing was championed as a strategy peculiarly suited to Britain as an island power anxious to avoid army commitments in Europe again, and traditionally attached to blockade strategies. To achieve such a campaign it was always argued that the independence and integrity of the RAF were essential.33 In the United States bombing was used for the same purpose. General Mitchell’s attempts to secure an independent air force in the 1920s was underpinned by his argument that strategic bombing had revolutionized war, made armies redundant and overthrown ‘The old theory that victory meant the destruction of the hostile main army...’. The air forces’ failure to achieve any independent status led to a continued defence of the strategic bombing argument in order to show that an independent strategy required an independent force.34 Elsewhere the dominant position of the army excluded the use of air forces on strategic tasks, partly because air power was subordinate to land power and partly because other air forces believed it to be operationally impossible to achieve the decisive results by bombing that its adherents claimed. The Luftwaffe, although intended by Hitler and Goering from the start to have a strategic capability, developed an independent bombing doctrine only slowly and never subscribed to the more optimistic expectations of the British and American airmen for whom the effectiveness of strategic bombing remained an act of faith. The objective of strategic bombing, whether of a more limited character or not, was to undermine morale in the enemy territory on the one hand and to destroy vital economic targets on the other. Morale was a difficult target to define. Its definition for operational purposes depended on a highly subjective assessment of the political or moral character of an enemy state. The RAF Page 21 of 309 5% army. lhis was not independent or stra