. The establishment by the War Department of the New Developments Division in 1943 was intended to restore the balance between pure and applied weapons research.®!3 The selection of existing types.®16 The same decision was reached in the United States. Modification was preferred to invention as it promised faster results. That such a decision should be taken also reflected an in these areas that the policy of modification to improve quality was implemented, first by the Allies and then, with great haste, by Germany.8!” The only possibility of a radical departure in aircraft above the rest. The attitude of the German leadership to the prospect of atomic weapons was sceptical. Hitler doubted whether such a weapon would be completed during the war he planned and the scientific and military establishment were generally agreed that German research was so in advance of the Allies in this area that there was no danger of such weapons being produced by the enemy during the war either.®!2 But with rocket and pilotless aircraft technology Hitler and Goering found a weapon of such apparent novelty and with great terroristic potential that it was given the highest priority once Hitler became aware of its value. Yet Hitler’s enthusiasm showed his failure to evaluate projects within a wider strategic context. General Dornberger, who had led the research team working on rockets, told Hitler that the rockets were of a very limited use, that they were not accurate and, carrying only a ton of explosives, had a destructive power much less than that of a heavy bomber. He calculated that the rocket Hitler required, capable of carrying a ten-ton warhead, would take a further five years of research and a rocket fuel which had not yet been developed.82° The same problem emerged with jet development in Germany. The RLM showed little enthusiasm for the project which was not expected to yield results within the span of the current war. Yet when Hitler discovered the potential of the project h