egy. During these two campaigns the British seized the opportunity to develop practical ways of achieving air supremacy through the exercise of air power in a multiplicity of roles. These developments were to prove essential to the planning and execution of the later cross-Channel invasion. It marked the point at which those powers that favoured a more general air strategy became more easily distinguishable from those compelled by circumstance or inclination to adopt a more limited version. Seeing the success of the British example the AAF was persuaded under combat conditions to follow suit. But the rewards of such a strategy were not immediate. In the very nature of air warfare the winning of air superiority was a long-term process. For one thing the RAF had been slow in establishing the principles of co-operation with the army or in understanding the inter-relatedness of independent and tactical air operations. During 1942 and 1943 great efforts were devoted in the RAF and AAF to establishing large tactical air forces as well as forces for defence and bombing. Nor did the winning of air supremacy speed up the defeat of the Axis power in North Africa or the Atlantic as much as had been hoped. Had the Allies not had large numbers of aircraft and trained crews in 1942 the situation might have been considerably worse. Even faced with this substantial Allied advantage the German submarines and Rommel’s Afrika Korps achieved much more than either Hitler had expected or the supply position warranted. In Rommel’s case this was achieved with a rapidly shrinking Luftwaffe in the south and an almost non-existent Regia Aeronautica. In the Atlantic it was achieved without any effective German long-range bomber or a single aircraft carrier.  FIL, aint crwaie mma MS abt a matt Amen oe on hm wicks abba cee TT tl ee gerne ta mle then eecetle meas Bh gitee aL en Stank mano eres cewtmcselar Sere bend lin Ieee 2h so be Ateraek em enicumne once en Ss De ON Be Bs a WIETL ULE VET CU si