ually improved, the use made of target intelligence declined. The growing evidence that bombing was too inaccurate for precise bombing of selected targets pushed the RAF towards area bombing for which a minimum of intelligence was required. For area bombing Harris simply needed a long list of German cities and the industries located in them. Bomber Command remained more impervious to intelligence suggestions than other commands for the rest of the war, arguing that it had already been proved that area bombing at night was the only effective bombing policy. In addition Bomber Command vigorously represented to the American air forces the view that elaborate target systems were redundant.446 The American response was an equally vigorous defence of precise targets. American air intelligence had been non-existent before 1940. Arnold insisted on its creation because the War Department intelligence agencies reports were not circulated to the Air Corps as it was not directly represented on the General Staff.44” Immediately work was begun on military-economic intelligence in order to  moe soa . ot 4 wat wed oe A vont “ soe stoi ato. ow 1 con  Page 119 of 309 43% STE CORUM CME OLIU EL LALOR UY LIS CA PELISLILE UL UPELALIUILS Wee ELLE SLAUEE CREEER LE WEIS Uh WIE EIIEL MAYS sll PIC LO1U 1) OULU UE AU UU LEIS, Wate ELIS LLIULE CLLOULLVE. 2 1Ie MOUVALS QUUUE Prttisiil more economical precision bombing later in the war, the commitment of Bomber Command and its commander to the original decision was almost impossible to reverse.422 Moreover the RAF sought intelligence agencies reports were not circulated to the Air Corps as it was not directly represented on the General Staff.447 Immediately work was begun on military-economic intelligence in order to offer firm support for the air force doctrines on bombing and the attacks on ‘vital centres’. The recruitment of expert help in compiling such intelligence dictated to a certain extent the targets finally chosen. Electric power was s