n Europe the powers were more aware of where their interests and loyalties lay. Britain and France armed for a possible war with Germany and Italy. Germany re-armed to fulfil Hitler’s opaque ambitions in the east and west. The Soviet Union, maintaining the largest air force in Europe in the 1930s, prepared for the immediate problem of Japanese imperialism in the Far East and the revisionism of German fascism.®  One of the main problems of air rearmament was knowing what to produce. This posed two questions: what it was necessary to produce for carrying out air strategy; and what an enemy or group of enemy powers was capable of producing. Rearmament programmes were constructed to some extent on the intelligence available of preparations elsewhere. But there was no real way of knowing whether an enemy had got the guesses right on questions such as the right proportion of bombers to fighters, the right number of reserves, the likely rate of combat attrition. As a result aircraft  Page 27 of 309 Th Se Re SR OER a IE SESE WV SEES Le Bee es we ee ee Ae able to brandish the threat of bombing as a diplomatic weapon, using it to put pressure on the western powers at Munich and successfully intimidating the Czech government in the spring of 1939.1 programmes were conditioned more by domestic circumstances, in particular the size of the aircraft industry, its expected rate of expansion and the amount of money available to finance it. In Germany the difficulty in securing raw materials was used to moderate what German industry regarded as over-optimistic planning by the Luftwaffe. In Britain, finance was a constraining factor.® In all cases the difficulties experienced by air forces were compounded by the competition for resources with the other services. Although the army and navy regarded the air force as an auxiliary service it was the most expensive of the three, and such large expenditures had to be justified in the face of naval or army shortages. In Germany the air force