roduced and the conversion from existing obsolescent types was well under way, although most of the aircraft stationed at the frontier were older types. The new fighters, Yak-1, MiG-3 and LaGG-3, were technically a significant improvement on the I-153 and I-16 and they were produced in large quantities in the early months of the campaign. In the period up to June some 1,946 were produced. From July to December some 5,173 of the new fighters were produced. These figures compared very favourably with the 1,619 Luftwaffe fighters produced over the same period for all fronts, or even the 4,408 produced for the RAF. These fighters were supported in addition by the new II-2 ground-attack aircraft of which 1,293 were produced in the second half of 1941 and which proved to be a very effective dive-bomber kept in production for almost the whole of the war. The bulk of the very many Russian aircraft destroyed in June 1941 were therefore already obsolete, the Luftwaffe simply completing ajob that was already being carried out by the Red Air Force itself. For the later desperate defence of Moscow and around Smolensk the Russians were able to call on largely new types produced at the rate of four aircraft for every one German.188  For the early stages of the war in the east the supply situation did not, admittedly, seem critical for the Luftwaffe. The air force did exactly what was expected of it. Huge numbers of Russian aircraft were destroyed on the ground. German estimates claimed the destruction of 4,017 Russian aircraft in the first week of operations. The Russians themselves admitted total losses of 5,316 by 5 October.182 Having achieved initial mastery over the frontier area Luftwaffe units were sent to help the main army offensives and in particular the central and southern fronts. The Luftwaffe did not regard Soviet air tactics as more than rudimentary. Hitler’s gamble appeared to have paid off. By October an apparently demoralized and ineffective Red Air Force could do