o the effectiveness of bombing in terms of the precise targets selected. The Butt renort showed that onlv 30 ner cent of the homhers arrived within five miles of the targets and in the Ruhr onlv 10 ner cent.445 Its imnlications were considerable. Although Bomber  Page 118 of 309 42% opposing air force. The Blitz had already demonstrated that well-organized passive defences combined with good fighter interception could defeat daylight bombing and effectively disrupt bombing by night. There was little evidence to suggest that Germany was any less well defended than Britain had been in 1940. The complete failure of early RAF bombing raids by day confirmed such a more economical precision bombing later in the war, the commitment of Bomber Command and its commander to the original decision was almost impossible to reverse.422 Moreover the RAF sought amount of actual effort devoted to such intelligence was small and fell far short of what was required for the projected bombing.4#! Photo-reconnaissance was only carried out on a systematic basis little high level appreciation of the weak and vital sectors of the British economy took place.4*3 On the outbreak of war Bomber Command was able to draw more heavily on economic intelligence from selected. The Butt report showed that only 30 per cent of the bombers arrived within five miles of the targets and in the Ruhr only 10 per cent.445 Its implications were considerable. Although Bomber Command criticized the highly selective nature of the intelligence evidence used it was clear that with the technical means to hand area bombing was not only desirable, but was the only method available. Accepting this solution, Bomber Command moved to the opposite extreme in the use made of intelligence. While post-operational intelligence continually improved, the use made of target intelligence declined. The growing evidence that bombing was too inaccurate for precise bombing of selected targets pushed the RAF towards area bombing for which