city of the United States, which, despite the political arguments over the question of neutrality, proved willing to supply large quantities of aircraft. By September 1939 orders for 1,500 had been given to American industry; by December for 2,500. By August of the following year Britain alone had outstanding orders for 14,000 aircraft and 25,000 aero-engines. Once Roosevelt had persuaded Congress to lift the Neutrality Ban in November 1939, the Air Corps sanctioned the sale not only of trainers and obsolescent aircraft but of more advanced combat types as well, arguing that the American aircraft industry would grow faster using European rather than American investment and orders and that the American public would be spared the expense.118 The Allied advantage in numbers was tempered by the fact that the Allies had smaller high-quality forces to start with and were still achieving parity rather than a substantial lead. Both Britain and France were in the process of changing over from obsolescent to more modern aircraft types, building up new units from scratch and sending the older aircraft back into the reserve parks and training schools. The German change-over to modern types, although by no means complete in 1939, was considerably further advanced when war broke out.  The war opened with the successful invasion and defeat of Poland. The strategy worked out earlier in the year was put into operation with the maximum effect. The Polish air force was overcome rapidly, many of the aircraft being destroyed on the ground. The Luftwaffe then moved on to attack communications and troop movements and to work closely in co-operation with the armies in the field as aerial artillery. The campaign provided few lessons other than those already known, since the main enemy was to the west. The one lesson that the campaign might have taught was the need  Page 36 of 309 1% support to the attacking armies. This intention was given substance in Hitler’s first war directive.*°* Hitle