ed. One theme dominating the history of the air war was the relative importance of the military establishment in organizing a nation for war. In the Axis powers militarism and military society were central and dominating features of the war effort. In part this was due to the ambitions of fascist leaders, as in Italy, eager to prove the martial spirit of the new  Page 216 of 309 79% ALIN COUTTIIIIALCU Ce LIES UL Dilltioll PIUPdEAliNa LINUUBIIUUL LILES Wal. LLL All ALLACK AL FOdil TIALUUL VECAITIC LIE SICAL VEL AYal Lilal JUSLITIOCM CIE SAIC LIAL POUPIE iil LHIEdL LEOUIVE LU PULL Japall, ith in Portal’s unfortunate phrase, ‘incidental’.872 Italian masters. But in Japan and Germany modern totalitarianism was fused with a military tradition of old standing in a self-conscious assertion of the values of the military world over those of the modern industrial and class world. There were military traditions among the Allied powers as well, but such tradition as there was remained subordinate to the modern administrative and industrial societies for whom the armed forces were now a specialized agency rather than an important social fact. Certain advantages lay with the militarist powers. A higher degree of preparation, better training, better fighting qualities were demonstrated in the Axis victories from 1939 to 1942. The slow retreat back through Europe again demonstrated the strength of German military society when engaged upon military tasks, even against overwhelming odds. But it had many disadvantages. The air war, for example, was the one area of warfare that relied completely upon its contacts with the modern world, through scientific research, advanced technology, good civilian organization, rational industrial methods and the wide recruitment of non-military personnel. In all these areas military domination over the task of waging war had damaging consequences. Civilians and the military co-operated poorly, partly on the assumption that most of the waging of war w