f changing strategy in mid-stream in an area as complex as aircraft production. To the extent that aircraft production was an economic race the late starter was hit in two ways. Not only was it difficult to catch up numerically with enemy production, but any additional production was likely to be eaten up in air battles against the larger air force so that strength and reserves could not be expanded. This was the downward production spiral in which the German and Japanese air forces found themselves in 1944. Allied numerical superiority had reached what could be regarded as a critical stage by the early months of 1944 for from that date onwards Axis production could not keep pace with losses.76° However many new aircraft were produced in 1944 — and some 40 per cent of Axis aircraft output was produced in that year — it was in effect reducing the odds from 4:1 to 3:1, and under either of those circumstances defeat was unavoidable. In the organization and mobilization of resources there were also marked differences, partly due to the different role assumed by the military and political leadership. Too great a reliance on military planning and organization in questions of production and technology seriously undermined the ability of the Axis powers to run efficient war industries. This was nowhere clearer than in the degree to which industry was recruited for war. In the west capitalism had to be brought in from the start because both Britain and the United States, while generously endowed with industrial resources, had a relatively small arms sector. In Germany and Japan concentration on war industry before 1940 left the military with a sufficiently large armaments economy to persuade the armed forces not to recruit from the wider industrial economy or to relinquish technical and economic controls. A strong belief in the efficacy of quality over quantity, particularly strong in the Japanese and German military Ministry, run by Zaibatsu executives, on the basis that it