g on materials and labour, only developed some time after the outbreak of war; secondly, because the gains to be made in the usual way from increasing scale of production could not be realized until large aircraft programmes were under wav, and the initial design problems worked out.  Page 169 of 309 61% a Se _ _ a re ae _ opportunity to carry out economic imperialism into the newly conquered areas, a task that in itself diverted considerable administrative and economic effort from the problem of war production.®5” centralized economy continued to be run by an uneasy alliance of fascist placemen, traditional bureaucrats and soldiers.©52 of production could not be realized until large aircraft programmes were under way, and the initial design problems worked out.  None of the belligerent powers failed during the war to expand aircraft production facilities considerably. But there were substantial differences in the form such expansion took and in its timing. Much of the initial expansion was pre-war, carried out to cope with the rearmament race. In Germany and Japan such expansion was concentrated in the main aircraft producers themselves. In the German case Goering’s constant entreaties for production at full stretch, as if a condition of war already existed, made it difficult for manufacturers to keep any capacity in reserve and forced them to hurry investment programmes through without paying sufficient attention to longer-term needs. Thus on the outbreak of war the industry was already operating at what it claimed to be full capacity.®©° Lacking sufficient urgency, however, for a greater level of economic mobilization, the investment programmes both before and after 1939, were modest in scale. In fact over the first three years of war the construction of facilities actually declined from a peak in 1938-39 without any corresponding expansion into other industrial sectors. By contrast peak expenditure on construction in Britain came in 1940-42.66! In Japan the prob