mber 1940. In these attacks the Luftwaffe was caught in an operational cleft stick. Attacks by bombers by day had to be escorted by large numbers of fighters. The early attacks by fighter-bombers and dive-bombers from June onwards had shown how ineffective they were against good modern fighters. Essentially the Page 42 of 309 13% Table 3: Single-engine Fighter Statistics for the Battle of Britain!3® Strength Serviceable Strength — Serviceable 1 December 680 n.a. Battle of Britain had to be fought with medium bombers too slow and vulnerable to defend themselves accompanied by fast fighters with short-range, even from French bases, which were given little freedom of action because of the need to guard the bombers. It was the bomber that was supposed to do the damage and strategy dictated that the fighters be used to protect them rather than being able to hunt and pursue enemy fighters as in a combined land offensive. The RAF, on the other hand, had the main task of breaking up and dispersing bomber formations and was expressly forbidden to take up major combat with enemy fighters. This gave the RAF the chance to do what fighters were good at, shooting down slower and less well-defended bombers but it gave the Luftwaffe the task Page 43 of 309 13% June  October 144° in southern England alone whose losses were made good by large efforts in production and well-organized repair facilities co-ordinated by the Nuffield motor-car corporation.13” Concerted Luftwaffe 1,733.138 wt eee. Ground crew at Biggin Mill refuelling a Hawker Hurricane fighter at the height of the Battle of Britain in August 1940. The Hurricane bore a large part of the fighting during the battle alongside the more famous Spitfire. Imperial War Museum The failure in the Battle of Britain left German strategy in some confusion. No invasion could be attempted and it was indefinitely postponed. Some senior officers doubted whether Hitler had ever intended to attack at all as preparations were simultaneously i