e as the bomber programme had to be cut back progressively in favour of fighters.321 This tendency had been The first fact was inescapable. In 1943 the increase in strength failed to match the increases produced by Germany’s enemies. By 1944 the so-called ‘Production Miracle’ of the Fighter Staff evaporated because of the ease with which Allied fighters and bombers were able to destroy aircraft on the ground or at the factories. During 1944 losses of fighter aircraft rose to 73 per cent of strength per month.32? The higher the initial loss rates, the longer it took to build up sufficient stocks for future operations. Hitler’s own attitude towards reserves made the task of conserving strength even harder. The effects of the increase in production, although a cause of anxiety and some surprise for Allied intelligence, were quickly dissipated because of the vast numerical superiority enjoyed by the Allies and the failure of either Hitler or Goering to create a workable air strategy. The shortage of aircraft was also accompanied by a growing shortage of crews. Test-pilots and training instructors had been drafted to the front for emergency operations in 1941. By 1944 the time devoted to training German pilots had fallen to less than half the time at the beginning of the war anda third of the time devoted to training an RAF pilot.323 The loss rate among German pilots, particularly heavy on the eastern front, rose from an average of 615 per month before June 1941, to 1,167 per month between June 1941 and December 1943, and 1,755 in 1944.324 Allied loss rates were high too, but the Allies benefited from being able to draw on the resources of all the United Nations.  One consequence of the long period of fighting with inadequate resources against well-armed air enemies was the deterioration in German morale. Air officers lacked confidence in their superior commanders; so much so that many tactical novelties were introduced at the front without being referred back to the aut