such bombing became even  Vann wnat ale ne nee 144 or port facilities were inoperable for any length of time, including the Port of London on which many of the German attacks were specifically directed.143 The major problem facing the Luftwaffe less satisfactory.144 two distinct miscalculations. First of all the air planners genuinely believed that Hitler did not intend war with England and concluded that the medium bomber would suffice for all strategic contingencies. Secondly Hitler believed that the destructive power of the medium bomber was greater than it actually was and that the bomber fleets he possessed in 1940 were capable of carrying out such a campaign without the need for heavy bombers.145 The Blitz was to disprove both points. Even against almost non-existent defences against night attack the campaign produced very little of real strategic advantage, and in the encouragement that it gave to the RAF to produce counter measures promised positive disadvantages. As a battle the bombing became less and less attractive to the Germans. The rate of combat attrition was still high, though much lower than during the daylight battles. Over 600 aircraft were lost and the Luftwaffe emerged with fewer aircraft available in March 1941 than in March 1940. The tonnage of bombs dropped, which had reached a peak of 9,000 tons in October 1940, dropped to 6,500 tons in November and 1,100 tons by February 1941. These figures represented a mere fraction of the monthly totals dropped by the Allies in 1943 and 1944.146 Moreover the conflict among the German air leaders as to what targets to attack most profitably dispersed these modest bomb-loads over a wide area. Priority was given to aircraft production targets, but public services, communications and administrative centres were also attacked. The resistance among the Luftwaffe junior officers to mere terror raids meant that unless Hitler or Goering specifically asked for retaliation, the bombing campaign was directed agains