t. Amidst many mistakes and miscalculations a means appropriate to the end gradually emerged.  The clearest point to appear was the fundamental difference between British and American air power on the one hand, and that of the European forces on the other. Throughout the war the western powers had rigidly maintained that the exercise of air power should incorporate all the ways in which aircraft could be used in war. These different roles were pursued simultaneously, with carefully defined strategies for each purpose. German and Italian intentions were equally wide-ranging at the outset of war, but strategic uncertainty and the circumstances of war compelled the Axis powers to concentrate air power on the land battles and to abandon a broad concept of air power. The Soviet Union was also pressed hard by the circumstances of war, but had already determined some time before the German invasion that close army support made the best operational sense, given Russia’s geographical position and the prevailing Stalinist military theory.  There were important differences in the situation facing both sides which helped to explain the different emphasis on air power. Most important of all were the contrasts in strategic circumstances. First of all the Western powers were excluded from Europe through the German victory. This meant that air power was one of the few ways of carrying the war on at all. Air power was crucial as a defence against German or Italian attempts to break further out of Europe and it was essential for carrying the offensive into Europe through bombing, blockade and the wearing down of Axis fighter strength. The second factor was the German invasion of Russia. Not only did this commit the bulk of German forces to a land war, and hence encourage the Luftwaffe in its more limited role, but it gave the western allies a long breathing-space in the west to build up large air forces and deploy them more or less at will. From this perspective the Russian armed for