y to the industry.”2 In Germany the ground workers. In the spring of 1945 some 50,000 trainees were removed from flying training and forced to take up ground service work for which they were not well-prepared.583 Industry was also compelled to provide more skilled men. While this recruitment had little effect on raising levels of maintenance and serviceability it starved the industry of vital labour in an economy witha relatively underdeveloped engineering sector. In the case of Japan the problem of a shortage of ground personnel was a major factor in the rapid weakening of Japanese air power. The air war could not be fought with aircraft and pilots alone, but relied on the mobilizing of sufficient skilled technical and administrative resources to keep the air forces in as permanent a state of operational readiness as possible. It was as much an engineer’s war as a soldier’s war. The key problem in recruitment was the procurement and training of pilots. Training presented two rather separate problems. The first was how training should be carried out, and how much training there should be. The second was how many pilots should be trained. The amount of training fluctuated with the conditions of war, as did estimates of needs and the number of men actually Page 149 of 309 54% Cadet Corps.?“ The existence of an informal procurement area for alr service both simplified the selection process and provided a large reserve of men with an active interest in, and experience of, flying officers in the air force to 10 per cent.+78 In Europe, too, little attention had been paid to the need to expand ground services rapidly and extensively in wartime, although there existed a pool of close involvement of the aircraft industry itself in the programme of salvage, repair and maintenance, so that the necessary skilled labour was not lost irretrievably to the industry.*”2 In Germany the estimates put the level at well below 50 per cent.581 ground workers. In the spring of 1945 some 50