ctually declined from a peak in 1938-39 without any corresponding expansion into other industrial sectors. By contrast peak expenditure on construction in Britain came in 1940-42.66! In Japan the problem was a little different. There a small aircraft industry in the mid-1930s had to be turned quickly into a large producer within the severe limits imposed by Japan’s relatively weaker financial and industrial position. By 1941 the largest firms had already expanded aircraft capacity some 350 per cent in four years. From the very nature of such expansion the later investment programmes would take time to bear fruit and it was not until 1942-43 that the large Zaibatsu investments carried out in 1940 fulfilled capacity.  For Britain the same sort of problem had to be faced in the 1930s. A small aircraft industry, financially weak, had to be expanded at great speed after 1936. The solution arrived at was to create a skeleton industry capable of being filled out with production flesh in the event of war. The additional capacity was provided either in the aircraft firms themselves, whose actual peace-time production was much lower than capacity under mobilization, or through the ‘shadow’ factory scheme through which non-aircraft firms, and in particular, the motor industry, undertook to run facilities financed by the government and constructed before the war for immediate utilization on the outbreak of hostilities. By 1939 the Air Ministry was able to announce that ‘there was little need for more aircraft factories’, although the ‘shadow’ schemes were continually expanded up to 1942 to cope with sub-contracts. The importance of the ‘shadow’ scheme was demonstrated during the war by the fact that some 70 per cent of all Spitfire production came from the factory built by the Nuffield Organization in the late 1930s, the largest in Europe. Facilities for the 2,000 aircraft a month  ae ata oD Bes ees Tere dae eit ote A Thee he oe A AR a da BD eM he Ta ad aD ee ed Mie a os Foe De