force. Personal rivalry prevented the civilian side of the Ministry under Milch from achieving any real say in aircraft production until 1941, and then in only a partial way. The aircraft economy was run by soldiers to fulfil Goering’s political ambition to keep all air matters firmly in his control, and the air staff belief that only air officers were competent to run aircraft production and procurement.S45 In Italy and Japan the same situation emerged. In Japan traditions of military autonomy and a general military distrust of the civilian establishment (and big business in particular) kept aircraft production firmly in the hands of the army and navy, whose own internal rivalry left aircraft production even more isolated and decentralized than might otherwise have been the case. The administrative isolationism in both Germany and Japan fitted in well with a tradition of ministerial and bureaucratic autonomy. Decision-making remained confined within the service procurement agencies and constricted by administrative protocol. Such decisions were in consequence often taken in a vacuum because the competent offices lacked sufficient executive authority, and because they were usually taken without reference to the outside agencies responsible for supplying goods or planning wider economic questions. What was a decision within the air force economic office became only one argument among many in the confused administrative establishment outside. Lacking a central reviewing body of sufficient authority the simplest of requests for machinery or raw materials assumed the proportions of a major political struggle for resources.  To be sure, the Allies found aircraft production a far from easy administrative task. Their answer lay in introducing a high degree of co-ordination and co-operation. Imposing as such production did on so many other economic areas it was clearly important to achieve as high a degree of co-operation and co-ordination as possible while resisting tenden