ction assumed a great importance in the warring economies and became a real test of how successfully modern industrial economies could be converted to war purposes. The German and Japanese economies were conspicuously less successful at this conversion than those of the Allies. Not that the fascist powers could ever hope to produce as many aircraft as Russia, Britain and the United States together. Nevertheless aircraft production rose to great heights in Germany and Japan in 1944 when it could be used with very much less effect. Had both countries been able to produce what was demanded from an early stage of the war, when its provision might have proved decisive, then they would have posed a very much greater military threat in 1941 and 1942. Nor is this an argument from hindsight. Both in Germany and Japan great plans were laid for aircraft output. The problem arose between the plan and fulfilment, the explanation for which lies in the way in which the war economies were administered, as well as in a wide range of resources difficulties which for political and economic reasons could not be solved until the war was well under way. Whether these difficulties had been overcome or not there still remained the problem of an overwhelming economic advantage to the Allies. If air supremacy depended to an increasing extent on the numbers produced then the Allies were assured of a permanent superiority.  It was at this point that the question of research and development became so important. The superiority gained through quantity depended on the average performance of aircraft on both sides  haing mara nr lace cimilar A really mainr chift in aualitw euch ac that imnliad urith tha iat aircraft ar rackate micht in itcalf hawa lad ta a chift in tha halanca af air nawar Hance tha naware had ta ha being more or less similar. A really major shift in quality, such as that implied with the jet aircraft or rockets, might in itself have led to a shift in the balance of air power. Hen