or Hitler were persuaded that the navy’s demand was as serious or as urgent as its leaders made out. Both were able to point to the growing success of the U-boat campaign even at a time of tactical crisis. It was not unreasonable to suppose that the Allies would not be able to find a satisfactory defence against the submarine. All the evidence suggested that a complete defence did not exist. Allied submarines in the Mediterranean had reaped a rich harvest as did German submarines in the Atlantic.  Page 80 of 309 28% product at sea. Harris deplored ‘the purely defensive use of airpower’ and tried to force a policy of concentrating on the bombing of Germany as a first priority.284 Such resistance was in the face of Churchill’s establishment of the Anti-U-boat Warfare Committee in August 1942 which, while defending the need to continue the night bombing offensive, insisted that resources be diverted to the between April 1943 and September 1944 in addition to providing guidance for surface vessels and long-range aircraft in making attacks on submarine targets.28” became possible for submarines to be attacked on the surface without prior detection of the aircraft. This technical innovation coincided with a change in tactics introduced by Doénitz which increased The efforts of Bomber Command against the submarine pens proved quite fruitless. Of the 9,100 tons dropped on the U-boat bases on the Bay of Biscay not a single bomb penetrated to the submarine pens.292 In the end, however, the tactical changes that had so worried Raeder and Dénitz did provide a means of defeating the submarine. The additional effort devoted by the Allied air forces in terms of the area patrolled and the accuracy of detection exacted an attrition rate from the U-boat fleets that could not be supported. Unable to find an effective jamming device against centimetric radar the submarines became particularly vulnerable in the narrow approaches to their Biscay bases. Here Coastal Command, with 150 long