ts of the economy.844 of the state of the Russian air force.®46 Russian successes in Germany and occupied Europe were by contrast impressive. Knowledge of German air force secrets was fed by the Rote Kapelle spy ring, on Luftwaffe developments in aircraft and weapons.84? British espionage also provided valuable information, particularly on radar and secret weapons development. It proved much easier to recruit committed anti-fascists in Europe for espionage work than for fascism to recruit its very limited band of supporters abroad.848 Air intelligence in the Luftwaffe was not unaware of the shortcomings. not only long-range strategic information but even tactical information about American intentions.8=! For Germany the acquisition of tactical photographic information was highly developed fighters.854 Another technical problem facing German reconnaissance was the existence of good radar on the part of the Allies, a fact that also contributed to the decline of Japanese reconnaissance efforts. It was impossible to escape detection by enemy defences. Even low-flying sorties could be detected from the middle of the war with the new centimetric radar. The situation by 1942 had reached the point where Axis photographic information on strategic preparations in the Middle East was almost non-existent, and for the final invasion of Europe in 1944 it was confined only to those photographic sorties permitted by the RAF for deception purposes.®55 Only the introduction of a limited number of the new Arado 234 jet aircraft improved strategic reconnaissance, but far too late to overcome the element of surprise achieved by the Allies in most operations from late 1942.856 The Allied experience was almost exactly the reverse. In Britain photographic intelligence had been poorly prepared. The Blenheim aircraft designed for the purpose was intended to act asa combat reconnaissance aircraft for which it was clearly inadequate; camera equipment was, by German standards, technically backw