e used in support of army and marine assaults, in general support for the navy, in defending the threatened frontiers with the Japanese empire and in a variety of tactical and strategic bombing roles. Perhaps most important of all, the Allies developed a strategy for the decisive exploitation of the advantage in the air without which the combat with Japan would have been far longer and less predictable.  CW. ThA Cbentanin Dambina Aan aieeas ee ee eee eee ee re ee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ESE ON RE SEE ES IE SED HE ENe SS CADE SEES BESO MAES WE JOELL CUEELEY EM VARS WUE A660 MV SERS We SOP ewaty Vs tae p the attrition of air forces had produced a situation in which Japan could not continue the war.4° keep America occupied in the Pacific leaving him with a freer hand in Europe.4 In the event, America was able to develop very large forces very rapidly to cope with developments in both theatres. 5 ~ The Strategic Bombing Offensives In no other respect was the gap more obvious between those powers that exercised a general air strategy and those who preferred a more limited course than in the execution of a bombing offensive. All the powers had to make up their minds about bombing if only because it had featured so prominently in the doctrinal discussions of the 1930s. Most of them rejected bombing because the industrial and military effort involved was too great in terms of the reward, some because the resources simply did not exist whatever the arguments in favour of it. The effort involved in establishing a bombing offensive of adequate proportions was indeed a huge one. One reason for the failure of successive German attempts to mount one was a misunderstanding of the scale involved. Only Britain and the United States intended from the outset to pursue a bombing strategy and to devote large resources to it in the face of all the arguments for diverting such resources to other purposes. But even the carrying out of a bombing offensive did not settle the argument ab