.5° Most of those promoted during the war in Russia achieved their positions through military success rather than political manoeuvre. In fact officers in the air force were offered the prospect of membership of the Communist Party only after they had distinguished themselves in combat. The number of air officers who were Communists rose from 58,000 in 1941 to 123,000 in 1943.56! In Germany by contrast political loyalty was an avenue to advancement without previous proof of military competence. If there also existed evidence of political life interfering with recruitment and promotion in the Russian air forces it was much less than Russia’s allies and enemies supposed. In Germany politics intruded much more openly. In the ministerial offices, many of which carried a military title as well, those known for Nazi sympathies and those favoured by Goering as old acquaintances or new allies were given positions. Younger officers were promoted on the basis of political reliability and devotion to the air leader. This led to the recruitment of those quite clearly unsuitable for office, such as Udet who was promoted to head the Technical Office. Nor did many of the political appointments bring experience from the outside world as the civilians recruited in America did. Udet had been a stunt artist, film star and was a noted bon viveur; another of Goering’s comrades was a cigar salesman; yet another had shared Goering’s experience of confinement during the 1920s for morphine addiction.*®? Even Goering himself lacked any professional experience as a senior military figure, on account of which he preferred to surround himself with those whom he regarded as his intellectual as well as political inferiors.  For those who were recruited into the Luftwaffe after 1935 from a military background there was a further problem. The Prussian staff tradition placed great demands on the new Luftwaffe staff for the high standards it maintained. The new Luftwaffe staff was required to keep up