sary to have any decisive influence on Russian production.2? It was argued, nevertheless, that Russian industry was highly concentrated in large be carried out for political reasons. The Luftwaffe without Goering at its head, said Hitler, just did not bear thinking about’.243 In Russia, on the other hand, supply of adequate, simply built and maintained aircraft was given the highest strategic priority. So, too, was a proper integration of aircraft command with that of the army and the civilian authorities. Soviet concentration on these two ambitions gave the air forces sufficient strategic and logistical superiority to force the Luftwaffe on to the defensive and to make it harder than ever to seize the initiative. It should always be remembered, however, that air power was only an auxiliary on the eastern front. The air war moved forward and backward with the front. It was the Red Army, drawing on air power for artillery cover of greater accuracy and decisiveness than was possible from the ground, that drove the German armies across central Europe. A large number of aircraft was an important bonus, but not necessarily more than that. Air power might have been more decisive only if the Luftwaffe had continued to use the strategies of 1940 with the same energy and resources, and had not imposed upon itself doctrines of such limited scope.  (ii) The United States and the War in Europe The fact that Hitler moved east in 1941 and had planned to do so since 1940, had important implications for the British war effort. Though still powerless to prevent German initiatives from  being successful in Greece and Crete, the British government was given a long period during which to prepare adequate defences in the mainland against the expected day when Hitler would turn west again.244 Although it was true that Germany would have the luxury after a defeat of the Soviet Union to concentrate solely on defeating Britain, and Hitler gave specific directives for such would not be any n