turnover and the operation of government-owned assets, left some firms in a position to make almost 20 per cent on capital employed on the firm’s own behalf.75! Some, but by no means all of this, would be subject to Excess Profits Tax. Only those as in Britain, were negotiated at a fixed price. In 1939 the level was raised to 12 per cent. The efforts of Congress in 1940 to reduce it to 8 per cent were strongly resisted,?5° and were accepted only in return for certain concessions for big business. Depreciation for tax was allowed to be accelerated from 10-16 years to five years. An excess profits tax was substituted for fixed profits contracts in order to encourage greater efforts to efficiency. Anti-trust suits were indefinitely postponed. Finally firms were provided with almost all new expansion investment by the government and were allowed to calculate profit rates on the basis of facilities that they had not built and did not own.”*? This had the advantage of disguising profit levels. The Douglas company, for example, had net profits after tax of 51 per cent of net worth in 1941, yet the overall rate of profit for the industry in 1941 was only 7.4 per cent.758 Contracts were negotiated over the period and regularly adjusted to take account of cost economies. Each plant contained a government cost inspector to ensure that excess profits were not going undetected, but although his powers were increased by the Contract Renegotiation Act of 1942, it was not always desirable to enforce too low a profit level in case it discouraged improvements in productivity.75° Turnover expanded so rapidly, however, that even though the average rate of post-tax profits fell to only 1 per cent by 1944, the aggregate profits expanded to record levels. In addition, as in Britain, the firms had the advantage of enormously expanded assets at relatively low cost in a sector which had traditionally found difficulty in raising capital.7©° In both Britain and America the commercial interests