ing alone, the dream of the air theorists of the 1920s.142 The equivocal way in which the Blitz began was reflected in the actual campaign itself. Once it became clear that no decision could be reached that would make an invasion possible in 1940, and plans were being tentatively drawn up for a similar attempt the following year, the enthusiasm of the air force for its task began to diminish. The obvious failure of the Blitz to do more than temporarily dent British production and the favourable effect that it had on British morale and will-to-resist was soon clear to the German leadership. The Ministry of Home Security was, with some justification, able to announce that ‘effective damage has not been serious in relation to the national war effort’. Good dispersal policies helped industry and rapid repair work ensured that no railway or port facilities were inoperable for any length of time, including the Port of London on which many of the German attacks were specifically directed.142 The major problem facing the Luftwaffe during the Blitz period was a technical and tactical one. The difficulty lay in trying to get a large enough bomb-load with sufficient accuracy to have any real impact. From July the Germans had been bombing ports and military targets with precision attacks by day. The bombing of London was to be conducted along similar lines with precision attacks on installations vital to the life of the city and its industry. When the daylight bombing was ended precision bombing became much harder. There was little training in such attacks and the main medium bombers carried too small a load to be destructive enough against targets that could not always be seen. Once the German navigational beams were finally combated by British air intelligence, the prospects for such bombing became even  Vann wnat ale ne nee 144 or port facilities were inoperable for any length of time, including the Port of London on which many of the German attacks were specifically directe