t of the difficult circumstances under which intelligence had to be assessed. Much operational analysis was conducted in order to criticize bombing: much preparatory intelligence was designed to persuade the critics otherwise. The more technical and specific the intelligence appeared the more persuasive its impact was thought to be, and the greater its defence of bombing strategy as a whole. Under these circumstances it was not always possible to use the best intelligence, and very easy to ignore much intelligence that did not confirm what the air forces wanted.454 DOTTLD TLS ALLO TICTICE ULE LIROCLY Cdl lase. VV Lei) LILLE PIOLORLAPINUC IIILOLIR CICS 1ICPeASEU ML Ad LAUT Al Callet LOL All LG UILY LILO Lie CILECLIVETIC SS OL VOILUITI ES 1 LETTS OL LIE PLECIs€ tal Eets intention to use precision bombing.45! Only when post-operational intelligence was organized on the ground after the capture of North Africa and southern Italy, and the Bombing Survey (USSBS) was Disagreements between intelligence agencies and with the services were fuelled by the second factor, the state of bombing technology. In fact the whole argument between those who favoured strategic bombing and those who favoured the dispersion of bombing among the other combined strategic objectives rested on the fact that the available technology placed severe limits on what bombing could and could not do. The major technical questions were concerned with range, bombload and accuracy of bombing. With the technical means available in 1940-42 the bombing strategy could not be carried out for the bombers lacked sufficient radius of action, carried too few bombs and those that were carried could not be guaranteed to land within miles of the chosen target. For the Luftwaffe this fact became readily apparent in the Blitz. The medium-bombers on which such emphasis had been laid were unequal to the strategic task. Not only was the range of the aircraft poorer than anticipated, the actual weight of bombs carried was f