in a an thane Lath  Page 174 of 309 64% SES Saas Eee Shee eee the quota planned by Todt, while the actual provision for building was in practice only a third of the original quota.£”” Too much money was still tied up, as in Japan, in consumer industries or in below that in Britain and America.£”8 This difference in urgency was reflected in the level of expansion of the aircraft industries. Here the crucial question was one of timing. The British effort to reach replacement of tools and equipment rather than for factory space.§?2 As was to be expected the Axis timing differed in direct proportion to the shifts in Axis strategy. The first expansion period for the March of the following year the major Mitsubishi and Nakajima plants had dispersed 60 per cent of their tools to small production units scattered in the countryside, or in less vulnerable urban areas.S82 except for one or two cases were too small to cope with the efficient production of aircraft. As fast as underground factories were created plants on the surface were destroyed by bombing so that both German and Japanese aircraft production was carried on in the final months of war from a rapidly shrinking industrial foundation.®® In the United States the effort devoted to aircraft production also shrank in the last year of war. But symbolically it was because too much capacity was available. Many plants had failed to run at full capacity since 1942 and the labour and tools were needed more urgently elsewhere. Labour in the industry declined 20 per cent over 1944, and floorspace in airframe production by eight million square feet.®84 (v) The Efficiency of Aircraft Production  Mobilization was not just a question of how big the aircraft industry was nor of how far it had spread into adjacent industrial sectors. It was also a question of how efficiently such capacity was utilized. That great gains in war production could be made by utilizing resources better was demonstrated everywhere. In aircraft production i