r taking up the attack against the primary objectives again it was clear that any end to the war would be a consequence of army operations assisted by the bombers rather than the other way around.  Despite the controversy surrounding the claims of the bombing strategists and the purposes of bombing the offensive was successful within the terms of the overall strategy agreed between the Allies. Those terms had always confined bombing to a primarily tactical role pursued by what others described as ‘strategic’ methods. More could not be achieved because more was not necessary to the fulfilment of the main objective. Nor was more asked for. The Luftwaffe was fatally weakened; German transportation was successfully interdicted; the submarine and V-weapons successfully combated from the air; the German economy increasingly eroded in the year-long conquest of mainland Europe. The heavy bombers of 1944 were the dive-bombers and medium bombers of the Blitzkrieg on a different scale. Those who favoured a maximum strategy for bombing were confounded through technical shortcomings, operational difficulties and the demands of the services as a  wthola Tt urae tha rhatnrical thraat anf hamhina that created tha iliuician in tha arly waare nf war that hamhina nramicad marathon it could fulfil ee eer and transportation at the expense of all the other primary objectives.4?7” Eisenhower had clearly intended that American bombers be prepared for this role from the start. He told Churchill in 1943 that echoed this intention by directing that ‘all possible support must be afforded to the Allied Armies by our Air Forces to assist them in establishing themselves in the lodgement area...’.472 Although more whole. It was the rhetorical threat of bombing that created the illusion in the early years of war that bombing promised more than it could fulfil. The ineffective flourishing of the bombing weapon both in the Blitz and in the early RAF bombing offensive demonstrated that all major comba