nvoy system had not yet been fully organized; partly because Coastal the German Navy possessed no aircraft carriers that would have allowed greater tactical flexibility in choosing where to concentrate the aerial attacks on shipping.1*1 different conclusions from the air operations of 1940 and that a more general German air strategy might be needed at a later date. (ii) The RAF, Bombing and the War at Sea  The German rejection of a more general air strategy coincided with shifts in the war itself that made such a strategy more rather than less necessary. The strategic initiative that had lain with the German forces began from the middle of 1940 to be taken out of Hitler’s hands. In the first place the RAF, even while engaged upon the defensive battle, had launched from May 1940 onwards a continuously expanding, if rather ineffective, bombing campaign. Secondly the war was no longer a war simply against Hitler but became in June 1940 a Mediterranean war and threatened in the near future to become a war in Asia as well. The attractiveness of the bombing offensive lay in the fact that war could be continued while preparations were in train for an invasion of the continent, a task that was well beyond Britain’s immediately foreseeable military capability. ‘The Air Force and its action,’ said Churchill, ‘on the largest scale must therefore claim the first place over the Navy and the Army’.152 There still remained the division over how such action should be taken. Churchill and some of the Air Staff favoured an indiscriminate offensive, partly in retaliation, partly because it was by no means clear that night attacks could be made with enough precision to ensure that targets could be hit, let alone destroyed. But throughout the summer of 1940 the Air Staff stuck rigidly to the target plans laid down before the war and elaborated in directives in June and July 1940. These targets were the German aircraft industry, oil and communications. While the Battle of Britain threate