o undertake more co-operative aircraft development the navy and army ignored the directives and continued to develop proscribed projects in secret.737 In addition production questions. Moreover the struggle waged between the army and navy over the production of better quality weapons led to a division of effort between research establishments and between individual firms, and to the secreting of information.”2° Not only did production suffer dramatically through poor control over design and modification, so also did quality. In Germany the problem if less severe was still critical. It was the result of rather similar circumstances: poor technical and production appreciation, a high degree of inter-firm design rivalry anda disproportionate influence of the air force itself on design changes. The first problem was largely of Goering’s own making. Udet was given organizationally wide powers over the whole area of technical selection and design. His advisers came mainly from an air force background or were promoted through the party and lacked sufficient technical training. Decisions taken from 1939-41 on new aircraft types to be introduced proved disastrous, not only because Udet and many others failed to realize how long the development of an aircraft took but because of Goering’s damaging ‘production stops’ on development of weapons for the immediate future.74° Moreover Udet was the victim of a high degree of inter-firm rivalry in design. Easily influenced and technically unversed, Udet was readily persuaded to accept aircraft projects without sufficient review and to take assurances as to future performance uncritically. Such rivalry was exacerbated by the fact that many of the firms’ managers were originally designers. This meant in effect that design and development questions tended to take priority in the firms over production questions.”4! The entrepreneurs believed it to be more important to have a variety of new designs to offer to the ministry than to be able