heer numbers alone, but also of aircraft quality, and of repair and maintenance as well. Thus the RAF, although numerically smaller, had a defensive system advanced enough in 1940 to prevent the Luftwaffe from using its large size to advantage. But on the whole it was numbers of aircraft that counted. This was even true for the Battle of Britain where the British concentration on aircraft production, and fighter production in particular, produced not only a qualitative but also a quantitative advantage by the end of the battle. It was obviously true in the Battle of France, the battles in Africa and the campaign at sea. The RAF in particular relied on numerical superiority. Other virtues such as good training and high courage were also necessary but they were by no means confined only to the RAF. British production plans gave a guaranteed supply of the most modern aircraft running for much of the period at a rate almost twice that of Germany. German plans remained not only underfulfilled but at a level not far above the level achieved in peace-time at least until the end of 1941. Nor did Italian production help. It was heavily reliant on unwilling German assistance and was frustrated by a higher degree of economic backwardness. Nor, it should be added, was British aircraft production at the expense of other kinds of war production. In almost all the major weapons categories Britain produced more than Germany.1®° This situation helped to achieve some degree of air superiority and to immunize Britain from Axis invasion, even if it could not yet produce air strategies for successful offence.  It was on the question of what was an appropriate strategy for air power that the early experience of war had the greatest impact. It has already been shown that before 1939 a dichotomy was developing between those air forces favouring limited, tactical air power and those favouring a more general air power.18! Such a dichotomy became explicit in the first two years of war. The re