elligence was in this respect misled. Arguing forces in the Pacific in late 1941 was intended to act as a deterrent by showing American intention to defend her position at some future date should the need arise. The reinforcement relied to a great extent on air power, and the heavy bomber in particular which could reach Japanese positions in Indo-China and Formosa from where it was not thought Japanese aircraft could effectively retaliate. The lack of systematic air reconnaissance, which after some disagreement between the army and navy only began to operate in December 1941, left further large gaps in knowledge about Japanese intentions and strengths, and like other preparations suffered from the demands being made on American resources elsewhere.344 One of the most insistent of these demands was the creation of a satisfactory hemisphere defence. The obvious weakness of American peace-time forces, created at a time when the United States enjoyed geographical immunity, had to be corrected first before commitments elsewhere could be fully honoured. In the air — from which most attacks on America were expected — large forces were built up for internal defence and grouped in four main defence areas.345 The crucial areas outside mainland America, to which greater urgency was given, were Alaska, the Caribbean and the Panama Canal. The American navy had demonstrated years before the vulnerability of the canal to a carrier attack, yet adequate defences remained almost non-existent. The greatest difficulty was the almost complete lack of radar for early warning of air attack. Even when it was finally installed at the Canal Zone in 1941 it was of low technical standard, operated by poorly trained observers and for some  Page 95 of 309 34% mainland Japan. In consequence only 11 army divisions and two air divisions of some 700 aircraft could be diverted southwards for the capture of Burma, Malaya and the Dutch East Indies.#** and more specialized. The navy organized aircraft i