introduction in choosing its weapons and antagonizing both manufacturers and professional airmen. These were problems not unknown elsewhere but coming as they did together with a more deep-rooted continued throughout the 1930s at reaching agreement on multilateral air disarmament.°¢ Nor was such an effort confined just to the democracies. Hitler, anxious to make every effort to avoid the prohibition of indiscriminate bombing of densely populated regions’.2?7 In March 1936 the German government indeed set about planning for a conference on air arms limitation which found echoes of sympathy among the British Chiefs of Staff, similarly anxious about the effects of bombing on morale.%8 Yet the plans came to nothing. The Malkin Committee set up in Britain in 1938 to study the possibility reached the conclusion that any quid pro quo demanded by other powers would be too costly to Britain’s strategic position.2° Germany felt too insecure in the face of the Soviet presence ‘limit aerial attacks to aerodromes and fortifications. Will make no attack on civil population’.1°! Unknown to Goering, Chamberlain had already intervened to force the RAF to confine its targets to ‘legitimate military targets’ which ‘must be capable of identification’ In the wake of Hitler’s appeal Chamberlain announced that ‘Britain will never resort to the deliberate attack on women and children, and other civilians for the purpose of mere terrorism’. In such a climate Roosevelt’s appeal on 1 September for all the belligerents to restrict their bombing met with general approval.13  Nevertheless governments prepared for the worst. In case the bomber did get through large-scale programmes of civil defence were established in order to prepare populations for emergencies brought about by bombing, including chemical and biological warfare. Plans were elaborated for the evacuation of urban areas and the dispersal of industry. A general programme of education in air raid protection was begun all over Europe.