centrate on one or two crucial tasks there. He preferred to let the Luftwaffe cope with a wide range of tasks for which it patently did not have the resources. Fliegerkorps II arrived in Sicily with only 325 aircraft of which only 229 were serviceable while the British were able to fly into Malta some 700 fighter aircraft over the first half of 1942, more fighters than had been available at the beginning of the Battle of Britain.265 In the end Hitler was not prepared to divert sufficient resources from what he saw as the main battle. Concluding that ‘Egypt belongs more properly to the Italian sphere of influence’ he was prepared to leave the bulk of the southern front to Italian efforts and in the end to abandon North Africa altogether.2® For the Italians this had much more serious implications. Unable as they had been to contain British offensives without some German assistance they not surprisingly proved unable to prevent Britain gaining the initiative at sea and in the air when the balance of forces swung even more in favour of the Allies. If the expulsion of Rommel from Africa represented an acceptable strategic blow to Hitler, it spelt the end of Italian ambitions. The Allies were thus presented in 1942 with the prospect of being able to impose grand strategic priorities on precisely that area which for the Germans represented a subsidiary strategy. German strategy was essentially defensive, Allied strategy offensive, however heavy-handed it appeared. The eventual success of the Allied air forces, though not always coinciding with that of the other services — rested on two major developments. The first was the development of a sound doctrine of how to win and hold air superiority. The second was in developing a satisfactory system of  Page 74 of 309 26% -_ —— a er ee — this call to the East has taken our attention off the Mediterranean’.2°! As the situation in Russia became more complicated Hitler continued to remain in two minds about what balance to keep bet