his sense strategic and tactical bombing became blurred together. Strategic bombing was tactical bombing on a grander, more expensive and longer-term scale.  Not all airmen, however, shared this view. The doctrine of strategic bombing thus fluctuated from time to time and place to place according to the influence of those who supported it as an extension of combined operations and those who saw it as an independent war-winning weapon. Because the means of waging a bombing campaign were the same in either case a considerable degree of uncertainty of purpose was characteristic of bombing forces before 1939 and remained so when neither one side nor the other was proved conclusively right under combat conditions. The championship of bombing. as a War- winning weapon hada partly political explanation. In Britain it it gave added weight to the demand for an in independent air force. Once such a force had been achieved  Lin a Se eS a Te ee Me ee Cn ee Oe eee  7 tala  Page 20 of 309 5% influence 1n favour of an air force capable of carrying out independent tasks through blockade and bombing. This did not blind the RAF to the need for army support, but it gave it a different character. German Air Striking Force and its maintenance organisation’ as a first priority in tactical support.2° The Luftwaffe was similarly instructed to protect the land advance ‘by an offensive use of air forces be fully exploited by the other services.22 In this sense strategic and tactical bombing became blurred together. Strategic bombing was tactical bombing on a grander, more expensive and longer-term championship of bombing as a war-winning weapon had a partly political explanation. In Britain it gave added weight to the demand for an independent air force. Once such a force had been achieved the bombing strategy was used as a shield to protect the RAF from any further attempt to compromise its autonomy. Bombing was championed as a strategy peculiarly suited to Britain as an island power anxiou