oidance of war with Japan is the basis of Far East policy and provocation must be rigidly avoided’.3°° This instruction was made fully in the knowledge on the Japanese that the RAF did not know of the existence of the Mitsubishi Zero fighter even though it had flown and been observed in action in China in the spring of 1940.35! It was impossible to get early warning of attack and there were too few aircraft either to fulfil a reconnaissance role or to attack enemy shipping once located. Under these circumstances it was not surprising that the Japanese attack was completely successful in all its respects. The outer perimeter was secured with few losses and at great speed and the major naval threat from the United States was temporarily eliminated at Hawaii. In global terms Japan was weaker than either of the two major western powers but in terms of the area chosen for attack the balance was very much in favour of the aggressor. This was true in terms of numbers and in terms of quality. In the Far East the western powers had only left a skeleton force supported with equipment that was obsolete or becoming so. It was inevitable that Japanese aggression would overcome this opposition. Success was not, however, entirely due to the relative strengths of the two sides. Japan secured victory because of good intelligence, careful planning and tactical superiority. The use of aircraft was vital in the overall plan, though it was the smooth working relationship established between navy, air force and ground forces that provided the key explanation for victory. The air forces provided the necessary preliminary air strikes, protection for fleet and transport movements, air cover over the battlefield and fighter protection for bomber aircraft. This last was particularly important as the bomber force was designed to destroy air installations and aircraft on  Page 96 of 309 34% re re i as a an ae nor the bombers were available fully by the time of the attack on Pearl Harbor.347 One