th during the first half of 1941 although it was slow and very vulnerable to fighter attack. Shipping losses through air action were 580,000 tons in 1940 and over one million tons in 1941, almost half the total sinkings for the North Atlantic theatre.157 Only Goering’s refusal to divert more aircraft to the war at sea and the failure to produce a satisfactory long-range bomber built for the purpose prevented aircraft from achieving an even higher degree of destruction. The navy was consistently starved of resources. In January 1939 it had been agreed with the Luftwaffe that the navy should control its own air force of 492 aircraft. At the outbreak of war it possessed instead only 120 mainly obsolescent aircraft for the war in the west.158  The success of the Kondor and the submarine was exaggerated by the conspicuous failure of the British forces to prepare for just such an attack, reflecting a more general failure to give sufficient urgency in Britain too to the fusing of air power with traditional naval power. That the preparation had been trivial was made the more obvious when Coastal Command and the Fleet Air Arm were comnelled to call in the assistance of the other branches of the RAF. which. with limited resources. were able to halt the aerial blockade within a few months. There was less success with the war  Page 47 of 309 18% ee eee a ee ee ee ee ee Ee a ee eee! aes SS St eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eee were 580,000 tons in 1940 and over one million tons in 1941, almost half the total sinkings for the North Atlantic theatre.152 Only Goering’s refusal to divert more aircraft to the war at sea and the compelled to call in the assistance of the other branches of the RAF, which, with limited resources, were able to halt the aerial blockade within a few months. There was less success with the war against the submarine even after air command had been won over the sea because of the need for advanced radar detection equipment, but even in submarine warfare a tem