’s surrender.  (iv) Air Power and War 1939-41  The impact of aircraft on the war in the first two years was both less decisive and less terrible than had been expected before 1939. In combination with the army the Luftwaffe had confirmed that tactical support was an essential component for ground offensives. If there had been any doubt about such a conclusion it was dispelled in 1939 and 1940. But in many other respects the impact of air power was disappointing and the air theory out of touch with operational reality.  The early air campaigns showed that the exercise of air power was subject to a number of specific constraints. First of all the amount of actual preparation for air operations, particularly with aero- naval warfare or with independent bombing, was well below what was required for their successful prosecution. The same was true of air defence; whether in France in 1940 or in Italian Africa in 1941 it was generally deficient. A second constraint was a technological one. To carry out what air doctrine required involved a degree of scientific advance and of quality in design not yet available. This was true for those air forces without advanced fighters and radar and for those air forces, like the RAF, that would have liked to bomb more effectively but were unable to because of poor bomber performance, poor navigation and a lack of long-range fighters. Technical improvements were certainly taking place all the time but not at a sufficient pace to overcome the operational difficulties. Another constraint was the supply of aircraft. Pre-war air theory had largely avoided the difficult questions concerning the appropriate level of supply to sustain air power. Yet it was this question that proved to be vital in the first years of war. This was not a question of sheer numbers alone, but also of aircraft quality, and of repair and maintenance as well. Thus the RAF, although numerically smaller, had a defensive system advanced enough in 1940 to prevent the Luftw