r cent. The efforts of Congress in 1940 to reduce it to 8 per cent were strongly resisted,75° and were accepted only in calculate profit rates on the basis of facilities that they had not built and did not own.2®? This had the advantage of disguising profit levels. The Douglas company, for example, had net profits after tax cost in a sector which had traditionally found difficulty in raising capital.2© In both Britain and America the commercial interests of capitalism were respected. In both cases a high degree of co- companies continued to make substantial profits until 1944 and profitable operations could be used to subsidize those such as aircraft production where the risks were greater. It was much more a did the Zaibatsu, in the struggle to create the Munitions Ministry, insist on less interference from the military and more responsibility for industry. In the end the contest became one of priorities: the Japanese trusts were anxious to preserve private capitalism from military interference, to expand operations profitably and to continue the process of concentration of economic power in their own hands; the military were concerned to turn the Japanese economy into a satisfactory war-making machine. Efforts to get the government to run the aircraft factories were resisted by the Munitions Ministry, run by Zaibatsu executives, on the basis that it was best ‘to encourage private management to increase production’.2®© As it turned out the industrialists were much better at achieving the militarists’ aims once they had obtained a lower level of military intervention. The same was true of the German economy when Speer finally persuaded Hitler to accept a policy of ‘self-responsibility’ of industry in 1942-43 in order to get private capitalism more involved in the running of the war economy and less subject to bureaucratic or military interference. In the German aircraft industry, however, the situation was more complicated. Over half of aircraft production came from