Stalingrad had a total of 1,414 aircraft for the attack and inflicted heavy losses on an already tired and increasingly demoralized German force. The relief of Stalingrad from the air, a promise made by Goering for political rather than strategic reasons, proved to be the disaster that the air commanders on the spot had predicted. The 490 transport and bomber aircraft lost in the operation represented a rate of attrition that could only be supported by a very significant increase in aircraft production at home.222 But whereas Russia was able to produce 25,000 aircraft in 1942 for one main front, Germany only produced 15,000 for three major fronts, including a growing number of defence aircraft for the Reich itself. By the winter of 1942-43 the question of numbers had once again become a vital one. In the  n cn rr ou, : aoe 1 ana . ets ae a ae the battlefield.21 This huge concentration of effort on the battlefront complemented the strategic aim of the Red Army, i.e. the destruction of enemy armed forces on the battlefield, a task that was successfully launched to create the Kursk salient there were 2,000 Russian aircraft massed against 400 German.?2° By this time, however, the German forces were heavily committed in the Stalingrad Russian attack at Kursk the Soviet armies enjoyed at times a superiority in fighter aircraft of as much as 10:1. Moreover it was precisely at this time that improvements in Soviet tactical training were reaching fruition. Methods copied from the Germans were adopted for fighter and ground-attack aircraft. A special Guide for Interceptor Operations was published in December 1942 and the final form of the ‘air offensive’ was published in the Infantry Military Manual for November.223 It was also the time when the qualitative gap was finally closed. The less successful MiG-3, Pe-8, Yak-4 and Su-2 went out of production in order to concentrate on the II-2, Il-4, Pe-2 and the improved LaGG and Yak fighters. The temporary improvement of the Luftwa