ars of war that bombing promised more than it could fulfil. The ineffective flourishing of the bombing weapon both in the Blitz and in the early RAF bombing offensive demonstrated that all major combatants had prepared for an offensive which could only begin to take effect after 1942 or 1943. Any attempt to accelerate the preparation was bound to founder on the technical and organizational difficulties involved. Russia and Japan made little or no attempt to mount long-range bombing, since both recognized from the outset the futility of building such forces with poor resources and a complete lack of previous planning. Germany never abandoned the search but could not divert sufficient resources from the army effort to carry out sustained bombing. Britain used the bombing campaign for a particular political purpose but like Germany was never in a position to mount a serious offensive until 1943. Hence the growing criticism of the bombing campaign before 1943. Because so many influential people said that bombing was important, the belief grew in political and military circles that it must be so. Yet the period during which bombing was under such close and critical scrutiny was precisely the period when bombing was least likely to be effective. The belief that it had been ineffective in the later part of the war stemmed largely from this initial disappointment, and not from the actual fact of failure. From the point of view of general strategic intention bombing achieved all that was expected of it. Only those who expected bombing to win the war on its own were frustrated by events.  (iv) The Impact of Bombing  The bombing offensives did not take place in a vacuum, even if some of the planning, starved of appropriate intelligence, was forced to do so. The response of those powers against whom the offensives were directed both affected, and was s affected by, the course of the bombing. Much of the response depended o on the way i in which bombing was perceived. In Japan t