e target plans laid down before the war and elaborated in directives in June and July 1940. These targets were the German aircraft industry, oil and communications. While the Battle of Britain threatened, the attack against the aircraft industry was paramount. By September the Air Staff had returned to the view that attacks on oil were ‘the basis of our longer term offensive strategy’153 In fact the selection of a satisfactory target system was constantly postponed both by the technical and operational difficulties experienced and by the more pressing needs of bombing Hitler’s invasion  Page 46 of 309 14% agallist KUssla, LOF tile provieln OF alfCralt SUPply fad Not yet Deel solved alla the Willer alla SPrinls OF 1740-41 Still TOUTIC Tile LULLWalle Proaucing Well DEIOW Its Planned OULPUL. itl january alfCrait production sank to 635 for all types, just over 50 per cent of the planned number. Moreover the temporary priority won by aircraft production in the armaments economy after June was rescinded in co-operation with submarines achieved remarkable successes in the early stages of the campaign,1*° partly because the British convoy system had not yet been fully organized; partly because Coastal the German Navy possessed no aircraft carriers that would have allowed greater tactical flexibility in choosing where to concentrate the aerial attacks on shipping.4*1 build-up and the need to divert resources to help with the crucial Atlantic Battle. The operational difficulties were similar to those experienced by the Luftwaffe — difficulty of locating target, little experience of night-flying, shortage of crews. The technical problems were also considerable. The large four-engined bombers were not yet ready and would not be ready in quantity until 1942. The existing bombers were inadequate for the major tasks, although efforts were made to improve the bomb itself. Finally there were no effective navigational aids introduced even though scientific intelligence had already lo