tment and the available numbers of senior air officers, particularly those of staff quality. Differences in the nature and establishment of the senior officer corps had considerable repercussions on the performance of air forces throughout the war. For most of the combatant powers air force staffs were created only shortly before the actual outbreak of war, or were expanded from a small base during the period of rearmament. Only in Britain and France did there exist large established air forces with a strong staff tradition, and only in Britain was that allied to an independent, professional air force.  Of all the major air powers Britain alone enjoyed the benefits of a continuous stream of trained staff and command officers throughout the inter-war period whose background and technical knowledge were exclusively concerned with air forces. The danger of conservatism that such a situation might have produced, was avoided to a great extent by the fact that the air force had to fight to maintain its independence and its strategic ambitions against those who doubted the usefulness of both. Under those circumstances it was the other service staffs who found themselves in a conservative position; the air forces who held the promise of major change in warfare in the future.552 The value of a long staff tradition lay in the fact that the exercise of air power required a high level of technical knowledge and competence, as well as a thorough familiarity with all aspects of tactics and organization. This took time to acquire. Its usefulness was qualified only by a lack of combat experience. Under conditions of war the air staff was able to make a significant contribution to war planning on the basis of past training and the lessons of recent combat. The RAF never lacked a supply of commanders and air staff officers of high professional standard, although the staff was helped considerably by working closely with the Air Ministry and the Air Council. This drew competent civilia