might produce a necessary breakthrough in a particular field, but what was more important for the air war was movement forward on a broad front of research, making use of what was immediately useful but also preparing the new generation of weapons and anticipating those of the enemy. This could only be guaranteed by the massive cover for scientific contingencies produced by a close alliance of the scientific and military elites. Science also had a contribution to make to the services’ own intellectual endeavours in intelligence. Air intelligence consisted of two distinct parts. The first was intelligence for the use of air forces in making strategic and operational decisions. This was helped during the war by the development of scientific intelligence sections in the complicated areas of navigation and signals. The second was air intelligence gathered for the use of the armed forces as a whole through aerial reconnaissance. During the course of the war accurate photographic intelligence provided one of the most important sources on the enemy’s preparations, while the denying of such evidence to the enemy became in itself an essential part of air force operations.  (i) Science and the Air War  The onset of war by no means initiated the involvement of science in military aviation. Advanced aeronautical research had continued throughout the inter-war period; the links between air forces and aeronautical researchers. though more develoned in some countries than in others. were forged evervwhere.7®7 In Germanv and Britain in particular the nace of air research and the degree of co- ee — =~ hit in two ways. Not only was it difficult to catch up numerically with enemy production, but any additional production’ was likely to be eaten up in air battles against the larger air force so that strength and aeronautical researchers, though more developed in some countries than in others, were forged everywhere.”®7 In Germany and Britain in particular the pace of air research and t