he Battle of Britain by which time even higher plans had been laid.”® The French situation was the same. Equipment was old and in small numbers with only a few hundred, mainly light, anti-aircraft guns available by 1939.7” With the sudden and rapid need to produce more military goods after 1938 there were bound to be some casualties. Static defences came well behind other means of air defence, notably fighter aircraft, when the money and resources were distributed. In addition more and more targets for protection were added to the lists of vital targets, constantly inflating the demands for guns and lights beyond initial expectations. Even in Germany production ran considerably behind the swollen plans despite Goering’s personal enthusiasm for the anti- Page 31 of 309 9% Table 1: Aircraft Production of the Major Powers 1932-39” 1939 France 3,163 Germany 8,295 considerably in excess of those of any other power.” In Britain and France production difficulties, due partly to the greater effort and urgency devoted to aircraft, held up the expansion of static not fulfilled until the Battle of Britain by which time even higher plans had been laid.7© The French situation was the same. Equipment was old and in small numbers with only a few hundred, mainly light, anti-aircraft guns available by 1939.22 With the sudden and rapid need to produce more military goods after 1938 there were bound to be some casualties. Static defences came well behind other aircraft gun.  One factor was common to nearly all the expansion plans in the 1930s; they could not be fulfilled with the available industrial and administrative resources. This was perhaps to be expected. Aircraft were large and complicated pieces of engineering and were becoming more so as the air forces demanded the most advanced aviation equipment. By 1939 the Spitfire took two and a half times the man hours that it took to produce a Hurricane fighter.278 Moreover those countries that had allowed air forces to decline numeri