ttacks on Honshu. Yet precision bombing, and the technical means to achieve it, was finally developed during the war to such a degree that it was possible to carry out remarkable operations in the interdiction of crucial communications in the preparations and support for ‘Overlord’.4©3 Navigational aids were not new. The German aids available before the war were ignored by the RAF, preferring to rely on more traditional methods of navigation. The initial conquest and disruption of the German bomber ‘beams’ used in 1940 did not encourage the search for alternatives, for these were thought just as susceptible to intelligence in Germany and hence unreliable operationally. A similar conclusion was arrived at in Germany and the poor bombing accuracy of later attacks in the ‘Little Blitz’ resulted to some extent from the pilots’ refusal to rely on radio aids even when available. The later British development of ‘Gee’, ‘Oboe’ and ‘H2S’ did, however, improve the accuracy of British and American bombing even though Harris was sceptical of the real degree of accuracy obtained, and refused to divert Bomber Command from area targets when encouraged to do so by the Air Staff.4®4 What the new aids did do was to perfect the area-bombing technique itself and to allow more blind-bombing on nights when traditional navigation could not be used, thus increasing the bomb tonnage that could be dropped in any one period, and guaranteeing that most of the tonnage would reach the large targets designated rather than dropping into open countryside or on the wrong city. The new aids also made possible a more vigorous defence of the technical and strategic possibilities of air power and silenced the critics who claimed that bombing without accuracy was not worth having. Page 124 of 309 44% Se ie ie themselves.*5? Neither argument was sustained by events. The heavy bombers could not protect themselves sufficiently in daylight raids. By the end of 1943 the search for a long-range fighter was bom