efence of the motherland into an imperial war. This was one kind of war for which Britain was ill-prepared in mid-1940. Although likely to be a predominantly naval war, the fleets were required for the protection of trade across the Atlantic and the defence of Home Waters against the possibility of German attack. For the same reasons the air force had to be retained for war at home. British resources were stretched to the limit by Italian intervention, but due to the lack of preparedness on the part of the Italian armed forces, the limit proved to be enough. Italy’s problems were obvious to many within Italy itself. Aircraft production was poorly co-ordinated and stifled by lack of raw materials and poor administration. Over the three years of Italian intervention in the war only 7,183 new aircraft were built, producing in a year what the British economy was producing in a month by 1943.165 Most Italian aircraft were obsolete or obsolescent by the new standards of 1940, there being only two fighter groups armed with modern monoplanes. Although the Italian air force was alleged to possess 4,900 aircraft in mainland Italy, almost half were trainer aircraft and almost all the remainder biplanes. When the figures of first-line aircraft available were separately investigated by the Italian navy it was discovered that in fact only 454 serviceable bombers and 129 serviceable fighters were ready for use at the outbreak of war.16 There were too few pilots; few effective repair and maintenance facilities; and barely any anti-aircraft defences. The early attempts at bombing proved ineffective as there had been little active staff preparation in training, selection of targets and tactical research. Although Mussolini saw the importance of mounting attacks against the Suez Canal and its shipping, neither the air forces in the eastern Mediterranean or in North Africa attacked it with any sustained vigour or success. Other bombing attacks against Egypt produced the same result and