he air heavily and relentlessly...’.27° From the outset German and Japanese air policy was more cautious. In the German case this was rooted in Hitler’s openly expressed belief that ‘a country cannot be brought to defeat by an Air Force’,871 a belief reflected in the growing emphasis on land power. In Japan air power was only possible in conjunction with sea power, since there was no enemy within bombing range. Moreover it was argued that the economy could ill afford to sustain a heavier commitment to air forces at the expense of the other services. There was also an element of miscalculation. Believing the air forces to be strong enough to achieve victory, neither country prepared adequately for failure. When forced to face powerful air enemies to whom air power was a central military tool, it was too late to regain the initiative. The effort required for creating large air forces was a huge one, quite misunderstood before the outbreak of war. Unless willing energies were harnessed from the start to the building of massive air strength, it was very difficult to build it up at short notice or to divert sufficient resources to the effort. To distinguish thus between a general and limited air strategy helps to explain why the Allies won the air war in its direct sense, in the defeat of the enemy air force and the winning of command in it became increasingly AliTicult to regain the initiative. yet in ali these enterprises the air rorce conformed to the general ambition of the rorces as a whole. ihe central goal OF aereating the enemy ope upp s, In the British case this meant the resources were thinly spread in the early years of war and only air defence proved its strategic worth. But by 1941, in and that the democratic superiority in the air is made absolute’.8® To this view he stuck throughout the war. ‘The Nazis and fascists have asked for it’, he told Congress, ‘and they are going to get it... in Hitler’s openly expressed belief that ‘a country cannot be brought to