Ble pee tee REL REL ods cern et man ee dist A cet tees od ao ot dn Si SS Se Seeks FE RE ee Slee ee eee SERS SS SRE SE Ee SR eS Be EE ee ee Se eee OS AE ek ee She  Italian strength on paper looked impressive, Britain had by May 1940 205 aircraft in Palestine and Egypt anda Air Force. From June onwards anything that could be spared was pressed into service in the Middle East.168 Not  further 154 in East Africa, including 15 Junkers and 86 aircraft of the South African until October, however, could the government comply realistically with the demands   were released to the Middle East were used in a primarily defensive and reconnaissance role. There were not en  ough aircraft available to do more. The only independent operations were carried out by  The combined use of aircraft with the other services gave the British the first real opportunity of testing the anticipated the experience of successful aero-naval co-operation in the Atlantic and the Pacific.162 Fewer mista of the northern naval war. The early use of aircraft in the desert and the East African campaign anticipated the  tactical use of air power. The naval war, and in particular the use of aircraft carriers, kes were made than had been exhibited in the Norwegian campaign or the early stages use to which tactical air power was to be put in the campaigns from 1942 onwards. In  forces rather than through the strength and organization of the British. Because of this weakness Italian ambitions, against the expectations of both sides, were not only thwarted but turned upside- down. East Africa was lost, with the loss of almost all Italy’s colonial air forces of over 400 aircraft. The initial t hrust by Graziani along the road to Egypt was repulsed and a successful British counter-  offensive drove the Italians out of Cyrenaica. It was only at this point that Hitler was forced to commit German air forces to a second front to redeem the disasters of his ally’s independent policy.17°  The British reaction to the new