he state custom of designating all firms as State Aircraft Factories (GAZ) working on aircraft orders disguised any conversion that might have taken Zaibatsu so that conversion in this case simply meant substituting one product for another. The only other area open for conversion was into the light manufacturing sector, particularly in textiles, woodworking, and light metal working. This did not prove particularly suitable as the workforce and facilities were unused to the requirements of heavier engineering, and were usually too small as individual plants to cope with the scale of orders. The conversion was also largely unplanned and occurred only later in the war when the possibility of large increases in output resulting from new investment was much lower.®7&  The degree to which conversion was practiced should not be over-emphasized. That it occurred in the Allied economies came about as a result of the urgent determination of these governments to provide a large-scale air rearmament. Moreover both the British and American governments were prepared to provide the funds on a generous scale for the purpose. There was much more directly state-funded building in the British and American aircraft industries than in Germany or Japan. The German government gave insufficient funds both before the war and in the early stages of it to cover the needs of the aircraft industry. In 1939 the air budget was cut, and under mobilization aircraft factories found it increasingly difficult to get the necessary finance to cover new building. Fritz Todt, who was in charge of both construction and the munitions industries (except aircraft), starved the aircraft industry of funds. The air ministry demands up to 1941 ran 100 per cent higher than the quota planned by Todt, while the actual provision for building was in practice only a third of the original quota.®”” Too much money was still tied up, as in Japan, in consumer industries or in personal incomes. Not until the war was well un