le. The war of 1939-45 saw a unique and incongruous union of traditional and industrialized warfare. Nowhere were the contradictions that such a union produced more clearly expressed and more decisive than in the air war. the major powers to retreat to a much more selective and soldierly environment again, though conscious of the debt owed to science and industry. But the Axis powers were caught at a stage where the Bibliographic Note: New Directions in Air Power History  Air power history was once the Cinderella of twentieth century military studies. It is now a mainstream historical subject, which has generated a wealth of academic studies and regular conferences on themes in air power history. Much of the best history of air power in the Second World War has focused not on combat or technology but on wider issues of strategy, organisation and economics. The culture of air power, or ‘air-mindedness’ as it was called in Britain, has also generated a rich history of the wider context of public perception, fear or enthusiasm in the face of the aeroplane. The social history of air power has also attracted more attention on subjects ranging from the role of women in air forces to the treatment of psychological collapse among combat airmen.  Page 219 of 309 81% anda participation of bureaucrats, Managers ana engineers OF, ror that matter, of women. Air warfare has now become, like other elements of military history, integrated into broader developments in historical writing. Much of the literature since this book was written has explored many aspects of air force operations more critically. The bombing campaigns against Germany and Japan have been explored in greater depth and with more detached assessment than was possible in the official histories. Among the best of these studies are Michael Sherry, The Rise of American Air Power: The Creation of Armageddon (New Haven, 1987), and Ronald Schaffer, Wings of Judgment (New York, 1985). There has been a growing tendency to