erranean, there was even greater resistance to Admiral King’s efforts to divert aircraft to the Pacific. Even though aircraft were diverted to the battle at Guadalcanal the insistence of the AAF on the need for a continued priority for bombing was confirmed at the Casablanca conference. Logistical arrangements were established in favour of a primary European commitment in 1943.296  The detailed Casablanca plans for the exercise of air power for the remainder of the European war were based on the need to achieve complete air mastery over the enemy. The lessons of the Mediterranean theatre were adapted to this central task. The first need was for continuous aerial warfare, what Arnold called the ‘continuous application of massed air power against critical objectives’.297 It was essential to disperse the effort of the Luftwaffe and to keep up a constant war of attrition, particularly by regular fighter intrusion by day, in order to wear down enemy resistance in the air. This policy was pursued during 1943 and early 1944 with increasing success, although it awaited the long-range fighter, which became available only late in the campaign. The second need was for a large tactical air force to achieve mastery over the invasion battlefield, to attack enemy concentrations in the rear and to provide good air intelligence of the front. On the need for such forces there was little disagreement. Nor was there any difficulty in insisting that a unified command structure should be adopted. The desert practice of close co-operation and flexible response from the air forces was introduced with good effect for the final invasion. The final need was for a bombing offensive to carry out on a grand scale a policy complementary to other strategic ambitions, through attacks against the sources of Luftwaffe production and by weakening the economic potential and war-willingness of the Third Reich. In the ‘Directive for the Bomber Offensive’ produced at Casablanca the air forces were instruc