my was developing between those air forces favouring limited, tactical air power and those favouring a more general air power.18! Such a dichotomy became explicit in the first two years of war. The reasons for such a dichotomy were to be found in the different expectations of air power and in different strategic circumstances. In Germany the army had considerable influence over strategy and the  Tarfturaffa wrae ahlicad and nat unurillinaly to relate air dactrina and air anaratinne ta the naade af tha army Tha actiial eaureca af tha urar did nathine ta altar thie amnhacie hut anly ta eanfirm it  Luftwaffe was obliged, and not unwillingly, to relate air doctrine and air operations to the needs of the army. The actual course of the war did nothing to alter this emphasis, but only to confirm it. During the brief period between August and October 1940 when the Luftwaffe attempted to carry out an air strategy on its own the results were disappointing enough to return the air force to its subordinate role once again for the invasion of Russia. In the other main strategic areas, in air defence and the war at sea, the Luftwaffe was also influenced strongly by strategic circumstances. There was little serious attempt by the British to breach German defences before 1941 and so little effort was devoted to building up such a defence. In the war at sea the lack of clear objectives and Goering’s personal hostility towards it combined to reduce the air component of the campaign to a mere fraction of what the navy wanted. Moreover Hitler’s whole strategy was centred on the army and the continental war. An independent air force campaign against Britain was seized upon only briefly as a panacea for the strategic impasse of late 1940, but on the whole air power remained of secondary importance in Hitler’s calculations and suffered as a result in the amount of strategic energy that was devoted to its problems. In Britain, on the other hand, air power was a central feature of strategy.