rtance in Hitler’s calculations and suffered as a result in the amount of strategic energy that was devoted to its problems. In Britain, on the other hand, air power was a central feature of strategy. There were certainly disappointments in the way in which air power performed in the first eighteen months of war, but these were used to inspire the RAF to greater efforts rather than to persuade the Chiefs of Staff to abandon the general exercise of air power. British strategy had different conditions from that of Rarmany Tha imnartanca of air dofanca ure ahwinie Tha naad far aircraft far tha urar at can in avar_inerascinag niumbare urse adain annarant fram an anrly ctada anf tha urr Rut tha cantral dacician ta  Page 54 of 309 18% The impact of aircraft on the war in the first two years was both less decisive and less terrible than had been expected before 1939. In combination with the army the Luttwaite had confirmed that of other kinds of war production. In almost all the major weapons categories Britain produced more than Germany.!®° This situation helped to achieve some degree of air superiority and to immunize developing between those air forces favouring limited, tactical air power and those favouring a more general air power.1®1 Such a dichotomy became explicit in the first two years of war. The reasons Germany. The importance of air defence was obvious. The need for aircraft for the war at sea in ever-increasing numbers was again apparent from an early stage of the war. But the central decision to retain a strategic bombing capability as the only way to strike back at Germany for several years, was not compromised either by the failure of German bombing or the poor operational performance of Bomber Command. Finally the lesson drawn from the battle of France and the campaigns in Norway and the Balkans was not that the RAF should simply become an adjunct of the army, but that the RAF should be allowed to expand numbers greatly to cope with all the general requir