n some confusion. No invasion could be attempted and it was indefinitely postponed. Some senior officers doubted whether Hitler had ever intended to attack at all as preparations were simultaneously in hand for the war against the Soviet Union for which Hitler was now much more committed.12 Clearly, however, the only way to continue hostilities against Britain was to carry on with air attacks, and according to Hitler’s earlier directives, the war against the British economy was still a priority. In the middle of September, therefore, Hitler instructed Goering to make one last attempt to bring Britain to defeat in 1940. For the first time the Luftwaffe was to be given the task of bringing the war to an end by the exercise of air power alone through a policy of night bombing against industry, trade, and administration. However, the circumstances surrounding such a decision were confused and the Luftwaffe was left Page 43 of 309 14% =< SE eee Ee eee ee ee ee eee ee eee EE EEE —EEEeeEeeeEeEeEeEE—————— eee eee eee eee ee eee ever intended to attack at all as preparations were simultaneously in hand for the war against the Soviet Union for which Hitler was now much more committed.132 Clearly, however, the only way with an increasingly aimless strategy for which the technical and tactical means of fulfilment were even less promising than in the initial Battle of Britain. There was not one but several reasons why the Luftwaffe changed to the Blitz. One factor was the continuing need to create suitable conditions for invasion should that suddenly become a possibility — however remote — during 1940. The Supreme Command staff assumed for some time that the change in targets was simply a tactical switch, as Goering claimed.14° Hitler, on the other hand, was faced with two further problems. First of all Germany was itself being bombed more and more regularly by Bomber Command, at night and with increasing lack of discrimination in choosing targets. Hitler took the opportunity of