ies they lacked the facilities to experiment, or in many cases regarded experimentation as a less prestigious occupation fit to be left to the service engineers. Yet it was the ability to turn scientific discoveries, even in an unperfected form, quickly into devices for the front that counted in war. All air forces were aware of the question of quality although reactions to it differed according to strategic priorities and research possibilities. In the USSR the need to maintain production continuity kept innovation to a minimum. Only under the more favourable production circumstances of the last years of war was it possible to introduce new types and to concentrate more energy on qualitative improvement.®°2 To some extent the same decision was reached in Britain and America in the early stages of war. In 1940 current needs were emphasized by Beaverbrook at MAP at the expense of future developments. Efforts were concentrated on five ‘preferred types’ and development cut back to cover only the most urgent projects.8°4 In the United States the call to expand aircraft output considerably in 1940 lead Arnold to insist that priority be given to aircraft to be delivered ‘within the next 6 months, or a year’ and to announce to Marshall that ‘every effort was being made to... defer our present research and development’.®° In both cases the deferment was a temporary response to the strategic situation. As soon as it became feasible both the RAF and the AAF returned to what was regarded as a proper balance between research and current needs, between quality and quantity. Lovett in the War Department insisted on ‘all possible speed on advance research and experimentation’ in overruling Arnold’s earlier directives. By the spring of 1941 MAP restored suspended projects and re-established the usual priority for research and development projects.8°° The German development stoppages of 1940 and 1941 differed from those of the Allies. They were not in order to meet an urgent need, b