ore modern factory methods. Aircraft production in the early 1930s did not lend itself easily to such methods. Production was usually carried out in workshop batches with workers moving from aircraft to aircraft, carrying out tasks in an unscheduled way on one or two aircraft at a time, using a large degree of handwork. Tools were usually of a general-purpose kind so that the largest number of operations could be performed by skilled men working in groups on each aircraft. During the course of the war the best practice at the largest American plants resembled that of the major car firms. Flow production methods were introduced, long and narrow factory halls built for moving aircraft from stage to stage of its assemblv. while convevor belts fed parts into the main line at appropriate points. Workers were scheduled carefullv to perform particular tasks at particular sites ine resuit of sucn attitudes was widely aiirering levels Of elficiency. Nieasured in terms Of airframe weignt proauced per man-day the following table snows the contrast between American and AXIS in 1941 to help with the new production programmes. By 1943 regular surveys of the industry were carried out in order to assess the effect of schemes to improve productivity.§®¢ In Japan in 1943 the was an average of 0.75 million sq. ft.,68? although the production at the main British factories for combat aircraft was on a much larger scale than the average. Spitfires were produced at the rate of experience in which the majority of aircraft factories employed between 20,000 and 40,000.®9° Moreover, the contrast developed further in sub-contracting practice. In Germany and Britain small of workers.®°! In America small businesses were starved of orders and even after legislation compelling the large munitions firms to place contracts with smaller firms, the situation continued. Aircraft manufacturers argued that small firms were too inefficient to cope with the scale of orders, and preferred to sub-contract to