the fighter defences set up in Britain before 1940.21° These arrangements avoided the difficulty of having an army air force primarily The Red Air Force also tried to solve the problem of maintenance that had plagued the Luftwaffe. First of all a senior officer was given the main task of coping with the necessary administration. Under commander-in-chief Novikov, who was appointed in early 1942, were seven major deputies one of whom was designated Head of Rear Services and another Head of the Engineering-Technical Service.211 This gave a necessary prominence to questions of supply in the overall command structure. These deputies set up special staffs to cope with servicing and supply and both had to co-operate in establishing Air Basing Regions (RAB). Each RAB served the equivalent of an air corps in size and contained six to eight airfield servicing battalions. These would also work closely with the mobile repair workshops set up under the Head of the Engineering Service. The job of these groups was simple; to keep as many aircraft as possible operational and to report on the effectiveness of all newly supplied equipment. By integrating the organization into the overall military structure and by giving top priority ranking to those who headed the supply services the Red Air Force avoided the danger of losing initiatives through poor serviceability.212  The most important reforms came, however, in the sphere of strategic and tactical doctrines of aircraft use. While continuing to support the principle of giving priority to the tactical support of the army, even subordinating the long-range bomber force to this aim, the Red Air Force staff placed great emphasis on the need for operational flexibility and concentration of forces. These were traditional principles of warfare but airmen needed to learn them. Instead of dispersing effort, forces were conserved and concentrated before being used in the main offensive. Instead, too, of  headquarters would be either the same