dle East through a combination of bombing and army attacks. For such tasks considerable Italian air forces were already in existence. There were some 313 aircraft in Libya and the Dodecanese and 325 aircraft in East Africa anda numerically significant home air force, which had already begun some desultory attacks against British shipping from the onset of hostilities.16  The nature of the Italian strategy was dictated largely by the mistaken belief that Britain was now no longer an effective enemy. Even in September Mussolini was trying to force Graziani to begin  Page 49 of 309 18% Kondor long-range aircralt 1tself sank 150,000 tons of shipping a montn during the first Naif of 1941 althougn it was slow and very vulnerable to fighter attack. onipping losses througn air action directive ‘to concentrate all the weapons of air and sea warfare against enemy imports’ and ‘to destroy the most important English harbours’.1! collapse of the Allies in June 1940 provided as good a time as any to consolidate what Italian empire there already was. For Mussolini — who was also head of the Italian Air Force — air power was to play an important part in overall strategy. In the first attacks against southern France by Italian bombers some vindication was sought for the strategic bombing theory claimed as Italian in origin.1® numerically significant home air force, which had already begun some desultory attacks against British shipping from the onset of hostilities 13 the attack on Egypt prematurely, to coincide with the first steps taken by German soldiers on British soil.1% The entry of Mussolini into the war had, of course, substantially changed the condition of British strategy. Although it was not an altogether unexpected eventuality, the entry of Italy turned the war from one in defence of the motherland into an imperial war. This was one kind of war for which Britain was ill-prepared in mid-1940. Although likely to be a predominantly naval war, the fleets were required for th