rating at the same time. Some of the mystique has contributed to that tendency to exaggerate the role of aircraft in the war itself. Many of the heroes of (i) Aircraft and Sea Power  It was already clear by the end of hostilities in 1918 that aircraft had added a new dimension to naval warfare. The first converted aircraft carriers had been used at the Battle of Jutland for reconnaissance and other navies rapidly imitated their use. Britain, Japan and the United States took the lead, a fact largely dictated by geography and naval tradition. The first purpose-built carriers were constructed in Britain between 1918 and 1923; the first Japanese carrier in 1922.3 Considerable dispute existed over how they were to be used. Aircraft at sea could be used for the bombing of other ships; the bombing of land targets from the sea; the aerial defence of the surface fleet; and for reconnaissance. For most of the interwar period the British navy favoured the last of these. Until the outbreak of war itself it was naval policy to store all aircraft and drain their petrol tanks to avoid the risk of fire during an enemy air attack in the belief that a barrage of anti-aircraft fire would provide a ship with adequate protection.4 The naval authorities remained sceptical of the ability of aircraft to sink large ships so that little effort was directed to producing aircraft capable of doing so. Even when they became more sympathetic to air power during the 1930s the naval air arm remained relatively deprived of resources.5  Japanese naval leaders happily embraced all aspects of combined naval-air strategy. This was partly a result of rivalry with the Japanese army over air force development. A large carrier force gave the navy an argument for retaining its own air service. It was also a result of the Washington Naval Agreement which restricted the construction of certain classes of heavy warship and compelled the Japanese to increase fleet striking power through the intelligent use of ai