was no alternative but to bring in personnel from other spheres of life to compensate for shortages within the military sphere. Although there was little difference between the training and aptitudes of individual officers, differences in tradition, organization and recruitment led to substantial contrasts in the performance of the officer corps as a whole.  (iv) Recruitment and Training  The same range of contrasts was shown in recruitment and training in general. Again there were many similarities in the way in which air force personnel was selected and trained and in the overall organization of air forces. Yet national circumstances, combined with the problems created by war, brought major differences as well. Recruitment into the service differed from that of the navy and army in a number of ways. In the first place air forces were much smaller and more selective than the army and navy (see Table 11). Air forces were compelled to be much more selective because of the nature of air force service. Pilots and skilled aircrew required extensive training for operations that made greater demands on the individual than those in surface warfare. The work was also much more technical. All air forces insisted that aircrew should be taught aeronautics as well as air combat. Finally all air forces contained a much higher ratio of officers to men than the other services, almost all pilots achieving officer status.562  Table 11: Air Force and Army Maximum Size during World War I[>72 Air Force (a)  Page 146 of 309 53% Unlike all the other major air powers the German air force did not bring 1n Clvilians as advisers, or recruit extensively from other spheres during the war, to compensate for shortages 1n the service, the front of the best commanders, it gave no guarantee that such officers, with no staff training, would be capable of the more challenging work behind the lines.**8 The subsequent demoralization other services, almost all pilots achieving officer status.+6 Table 11