ed a numerous and technically well-armed opponent and required that sufficient forces be kept for meeting the British threat. By contrast Soviet units could be used almost exclusively for the crucial battles on the eastern front.  There were a niimhber of reasans far the nanr sunnly situatinn Part nf the nrnhlem stemmed from the fact that Hitler cave eranamic nrinrity ta the armwv When he finally directed that the war in Russia amounted to 500 aircraft. Russia still had over 1,000 aircraft on the Moscow front alone.12! One basic reason why the German air force failed to achieve decisive air supremacy in 1941 lay in There were a number of reasons for the poor supply situation. Part of the problem stemmed from the fact that Hitler gave economic priority to the army. When he finally directed that the war economy be re-orientated to meet the needs of the Luftwaffe and navy this was to begin only after the achievement of ‘military mastery of the European continent’.193 The failure to gain such mastery by the end of 1941 thus postponed the strategic conversion of the economy to air force tasks. The problems went deeper than that, however. Even during the period when the air force had economic priority, after the fall of France, nothing was done to switch actual production to air force requirements. In fact production went down.1% The main problem lay at the planning stage. Every major combatant laid down high targets for aircraft production from the early stages of the war except Germany who for two years produced at only just above peace-time levels. A failure to co-ordinate military and industrial strategy combined with excessive overconfidence on the part of Goering and woefully inadequate technical staff at the Air Ministry produced a situation in which only modest targets were set. These in turn failed to be met by the producers because of poor preparation and formulation of demands from the Luftwaffe staff. Instead of setting high targets and then developing the ind