09 82% Of AMINGASCAGKOT UINEW FlaVell, LZO/}, ALO NOTAIG OCIIALLel, WEISS OF JUUSITEILE LINEW LOLK, 1765). LILETE tlds DECI a EIOWLIIE LEMUCTICY LO OlsCuss VOTTIUITIE 11) TlOrdal Leriils, AVPOLulolliiis Didille alla airmen; Richard Davis's study, Carl A. Spaatz and the Air War in Europe (Washington, 1992), is the fullest biography we have of any of the major air force leaders during the war. A recent collection of by many local studies in Germany, Italy and Britain. The social history of air forces has produced studies that derive from growing historical interest in issues of gender, health and race. Reina Pennington’s Wings, Women and Warfare: Soviet Airwomen in World War II (Lawrence, KS, 2001) gives the first full account in English of the part played by women in the Red air force, whose history is still, despite a dozen years of greater access to Russian sources, underdeveloped in comparison with other air services. S. Sandler’s Segregated Skies: All-Black Combat Squadrons of World War II (Washington, 1992) illustrates the way conventional social or racial prejudices were projected into air force recruitment and deployment. How airmen behaved in and out of combat is still a relatively fresh field; so, too, is the sociology of air forces. A pioneering study of the morale of Allied airmen, Mark Wells’ Courage and Air Warfare: the Allied Aircrew Experience in the Second World War (London, 1995), opened up for the first time the issue of how airmen coped with combat conditions and rates of loss that few other soldiers had to cope with. Airmen reacted to stress much as might be expected; they were not all the super heroes of popular myth. This issue of how wider society perceived air power and air forces, and perpetuated the mystique of the airman, has also produced some path-breaking work. Uri Bialer in The Shadow of the Bomber: the Fear of Air Attack and British Politics 1936-1939 (London, 1980) explored the development of popular attitudes to the threat of air att