Moreover, the Allies’ political structures, whether socialist or capitalist, exhibited a greater degree of unity between the industrial and non-industrial establishment. For aircraft production these factors proved vital because of the sheer scale of the administrative and economic effort required to keep large air fleets in being. For the Axis powers it was not simply lack of intention but difficulties in turning intention readily into production reality that reduced the number of aircraft available. Had such self-imposed limitations not existed, Axis mobilization might have been considerably greater. The fact that they did demonstrated how important was the stage between planning a war and fighting a battle. collapsed.£5¢ (iv) The Mobilization of Industry  The degree of industrial and financial mobilization for war thus depended to a large extent on decisions taken in a wider political and economic context. It also depended for its character on the nature of the particular economy. Large-scale industrial mobilization for war was a much more straightforward task in the United States than in Japan or Italy. For aircraft production in particular, which was a high user of resources due to the size, expense and complexity of each unit, there were two ways in which mobilization for war could be carried out. The first was through the expansion of productive facilities, either newly constructed or drawn from the wider industrial economy. The second was through rationalization of existing industry in order to extract a larger product from the same floorspace, machinery and labour. For all the powers rationalization followed rather than accompanied the expansion of plant facilities; first of all because the pressures on the war economy, making it necessary to find ways of saving on materials and labour, only developed some time after the outbreak of war; secondly, because the gains to be made in the usual way from increasing scale of production could not be realized until l