t bombing because of the early success of German day defences and this of itself encouraged the belief that the indirect approach was the most successful. Pinpoint bombing of selected strategic targets for a pre-invasion campaign could not be carried out at night. The AAF insisted that daylight bombing was not only possible but was the only way to effectively destroy the main target systems and hence provide the necessary help to the planned invasion. The target system consisted of six main sectors containing 76 major targets. At Casablanca priority was given to bombing submarine construction yards first before all the other targets. By May 1943, when the failure of this attack had become recognized, the priority was finally given to attacks on the aircraft industry as an essential contribution to the reduction of fighter strength which threatened by mid-1943 to prevent any bombing at all.222 On the need to attack the enemy fighter production there was general agreement. There was less agreement on some of the other targets but the directive to launch the Combined Bomber Offensive (CBO) in June 1943 finally produced a list of six priority areas: submarine construction, aircraft industry, ball bearings, oil, synthetic rubber and military transport vehicles. RAF bombing at night was regarded as complementary to the precision attacks on vital targets, if rather generously so. Any final decision on how direct the help for invasion should be was postponed and efforts concentrated on the build-up of bomber forces and tactical development.32  The bombing offensive depended too on how rapidly and in what quantity aircraft could be made available, and on the response of the Luftwaffe to bomber attack. Fear that there would not be enough heavy bombers had prompted the AAF to secure a high priority from Roosevelt for aircraft production in late 1942. By the middle of 1943 manpower problems had become increasingly acute, particularly for British production, and although the nec