uce a vast anti-aircraft army to protect German industry.482 As aconsequence of this it was difficult to persuade Hitler to accept active defence. The attempts from early in the war to divert aircraft to home defence resulted in protracted political struggles between Hitler and the air and economics ministries. To the end of the war he regarded the aircraft as an essentially offensive weapon. Although he finally conceded the need for aircraft defence each step towards its achievement was grudgingly made. The Luftwaffe staff supported Hitler’s view in the early years of the war. Jeschonnek, the Chief of Staff, refused to expand fighter production to meet the expected bombing, arguing that the easy successes against British bombing in 1940 and 1941 would be repeated against the heavy bombers. In July 1942 he commented at a lecture: ‘Every four-engined bomber the Western Allies build makes me happy, for we will bring these four-engined bombers down just like we brought down the two-engined ones...’49° Relations between the General Staff and State Secretary Milch were too poor to allow Milch’s emphasis on a priority for home defence to carry much strategic weight. It was only in the face of bombing attacks on oil targets in 1944 which threatened not simply air power, but the armies in Russia as well, that Hitler and Goering agreed to Milch and Speer’s proposals for fighter defence.42! A Reich air fleet was established in May and June out of the large increases in fighter production, but before it could be used for defensive purposes Hitler ordered its use in repelling the Allied invasion. In July Speer wrote insistently to Hitler to ‘reserve a significantly larger part of the fighter plane production for the home front’.49? Again faced with an economic crisis, in this case the threat of a total loss of fuel production, Hitler  agreed to divert a force of 2,000 fighter aircraft to protect vital fuel installations and industries, but during September and October the stren