iew he stuck throughout the war. ‘The Nazis and fascists have asked for it’, he told Congress, ‘and they are going to get it... in Hitler’s openly expressed belief that ‘a country cannot be brought to defeat by an Air Force’,®”1 a belief reflected in the growing emphasis on land power. In Japan air power was only possible in the air. Resources could have been allocated differently between services, but it is still difficult to escape the conclusion that the adoption of a general air strategy was an important factor in explaining victory in the war as a whole as well. Even the Soviet war effort, with its doctrine of limited air power, was helped in the same way by the western Allies’ pursuit of a general air policy. Air power provided two important and more general functions. First of all it protected and defended the Allies’ own forces and territory against attack by enemy forces of all kinds. Secondly it was used to speed up and protect Allied offensive operations by surface forces. Had either function been neglected it would be fair to conclude that the Allied forces would have been faced with a far more formidable task in terms of time and in terms of cost. Conversely had the Axis powers developed a greater commitment to air strategy, then defeat would have been not only slower, but far less inexorable than it turned out to be. The difficult question to answer is not whether air power was important, but how important it was. There can be no definite conclusion about how decisive air power was. There was too much  Page 214 of 309 79% and that the democratic superiority in the air is made absolute’.86 To this view he stuck throughout the war. ‘The Nazis and fascists have asked for it’, he told Congress, ‘and they are going to get it... we and the British and the Russians will hit them from the air heavily and relentlessly...’872 From the outset German and Japanese air policy was more cautious. In the German case this was rooted in Hitler’s openly expressed belief t