, so that the necessary skilled labour was not lost irretrievably to the industry.*”2 In Germany the estimates put the level at well below 50 per cent.581 ground workers. In the spring of 1945 some 50,000 trainees were removed from flying training and forced to take up ground service work for which they were not well-prepared.*83 Industry was trained. Until the war itself raised questions about training standards and manpower shortages patterns of training were similar in all air forces. Pilots were trained in a general elementary way until specializing in fighter or bomber or ground attack training. The number of hours flown before posting to combat units varied between 150 and 250 hours when pilots did further operational training.*84 The introduction of advanced training was not universal before the war, but under war conditions all air forces found it necessary to provide an intermediate stage between the completion of specialized training and actual combat. The transfer direct to the battlefront led to high wastage, as well as diverting the energies of front commanders, who were forced to cope with unprepared new pilots. Standards of training were higher in Germany and Japan both in the length of the training period, the range of training covered, and the emphasis placed upon excellence in combat which grew out of the peculiar military traditions of the two countries. Since the Luftwaffe pilots were an elite corps, within an elite service, they were trained to perform in battle more efficiently and destructively than a normal trainee. Constant references to the pilots as ‘knights’ created in the military establishment a mythology around air fighting in which the pilots promised to restore the individual and heroic in place of the mass.85 In Japan such attitudes were even more explicit. The fighter pilots compared themselves to the traditional kendo of Japan and demanded aircraft that would display their skills to best advantage. They insisted that fighters shou