rategy and those who developed a general air strategy. The limited use of air power was confined to one major role in support of the other services. In the case of Germany it was used in support of the army; in the case of Japan in local support of the navy. Certainly in the German case a general strategy had been attempted in 1940 but was repudiated precisely because of its ineffectiveness in the Battle of Britain and the Blitz. Indeed as long as Germany was fighting enemies, such as Russia, who also accepted a limited air strategy, the lack of a more general air strategy did not matter. In 1940 and early 1941 a limited air strategy had proved more than effective in all the campaigns from Norway to Greece. It is easy to understand why Germany settled at the time of the invasion of Russia for a limited strategy. Yet in the air Germany was forced to fight not just on two fronts, but two different kinds of air war altogether. On the eastern front a limited air war was fought; in the west a general air war. Germany’s limited supply of aircraft and resources could not easily be spread between the two, and Hitler favoured the more limited strategy. He did so because it kept control over the air forces more in his hands, and because his whole strategy was geared to defeating Russia first before turning back to deal with the RAF. Both Britain and the United States practised a general air strategy. A general air strategy involved the pursuit of all four of the major aspects of air doctrine simultaneously, while providing  overation and air support for ground troops. In the British case this meant the resources were thinlv spread in the earlv vears of war and onlv air defence proved its strategic worth. But bv 1941. in  Page 212 of 309 78% Both Britain and the United States practised a general air strategy. A general air strategy involved the pursuit of all four of the major aspects of air doctrine simultaneously, while Providing ope: upp s. In the British case this meant th