ew in Japanese military life. Soldiers were trained to give their lives for the Emperor and the first suicide on the trained crews to make the sacrifice.” But far from evoking widespread resistance, the evidence of demoralization stemmed more from the relative failure of suicide attacks than from the fact 7 ~ The Aircraft Economies  Throughout the war the supply of aircraft of high performance played a decisive part in the successful conduct of operations. The Allied powers enjoyed such an advantage in this respect that their air strategy was conducted with few material constraints. A major explanation for the failure of the Axis powers in air warfare was the failure to produce aircraft in numbers that even approached those produced by their enemies, or to produce aircraft so superior in quality that numbers did not matter. The record of production is set out in Table 12 below.©!8 The difference in structure weight of aircraft produced, rather than in sheer numbers of aircraft, gave an even more marked superiority in economic performance to the Allies. The reasons for the wide disparity in production performance did not lie simply in the fact that the Allies together were a more powerful and larger economic force than the Axis powers, although that was certainly the case after the entry of Russia  UraAlllel AllU OVSUICLE IUUEIS, LOL SUICICE ALLACKS WIIETL LILES £AIEU LOLCES IIVACEM Tlalititalits Japall. FPLUOLS WILO TELULIIEC 1LOTT SUICICE TlisolOlls WELE MpLisOled, All sUVSLAli Lidl 1MOLdal PIESSULE Was PUL those produced by their enemies, or to produce aircraft so superior in quality that numbers did not matter. The record of production is set out in Table 12 below.18 The difference in structure weight and America into the war. Germany, for example, while possessing a larger industrial base in 1939 than Britain, failed to produce as many aircraft as the British economy until 1944. Nevertheless, even if the Axis powers had given the maximum economic commitment to a