Japan was a combined operation in every sense. Naval power cleverly combined with air power helped to back up and protect the long haul of the American and Commonwealth armies into the land perimeter of the Japanese Empire. Only when bases sufficiently close to Japan PR, BES DRA EENTS URAL SS EGF SEER Ee CRE. ERE PONE REE RRR LORIN EE SAGES ER RARE Shee SR ee ee BON es NAAR USE RUE SO EAE BEES E SOL FERS SAREE SSREE Ee ee Sey poets Set ee had been won could bombing come into its own, and only the use of the atomic bomb, which air strategists could not have counted on when making their original calculations, brought the war to an abrupt halt, with the conventional bombing debate unresolved.  It is obvious that the air war raises more questions than its place in military strategy. One of the most significant things about air warfare was its close correlation with a certain level of economic and technical achievement. Only the most advanced industrial powers could afford to run a large air force and undertake the research and development necessary to maintain the technological momentum associated with such an advanced weapons system. Hence the ability to wage a successful war in the air did not depend just on the heroism and tenacity of pilots or the tactical ett AP titer eta ea, — tee a ar at tea” Detainee Denil” eine inspirations of air force leaders, but to a large extent on economic and technical factors. As the Germans were to discover in Russia and the Japanese in the Pacific, quality could not forever make up for inadequate provision of aircraft from the factories. As the numerical gap widened sheer quantity became a factor capable of achieving domination in the air. Fortune smiled on the big battalions no less in the air battles than elsewhere. Hence aircraft production assumed a great importance in the warring economies and became a real test of how successfully modern industrial economies could be converted to war purposes. The German and Japanese economies w