age 205 of 309 76% to Goering or hitler encouraged Oover-optimism and a lack Of realism 1n intelligence assessments, and made them far less useful to German alr Commands than they mignt nave been. contradicted the view maintained by Luftwaffe intelligence and supported uncritically by Goering.838 The same mistake was made about the United States. Goering’s public expression of contempt the degree of effort required on particular operations.8*! In all three areas scientific intelligence, which was much more developed and influential than its German counterpart, was used to reacha used, with particularly good effect in the diversion of V-weapon attacks from London.®2 The gathering of satisfactory intelligence on bomb damage had a considerable impact on the course of the The increasing difficulties facing German intelligence stemmed from the same isolation from which scientific research suffered. Good intelligence information could only be obtained by espionage and in this respect German efforts were persistently thwarted. German spies in Russia and America provided little and were uncovered with relative ease. The development of a good counter- intelligence network by the British provided a stream of misinformation on air affairs throughout the war.845 Knowledge on Russia was particularly hard to obtain. Before the war Soviet isolation proved almost impossible for German sources to penetrate. Once the Nazi-Soviet pact had been concluded Hitler ordered that all espionage against the Soviet Union cease altogether including photo- reconnaissance, almost the only source of information. When the ban was lifted again a year later it was too late to begin the process of infiltration, and air intelligence remained largely in ignorance of the state of the Russian air force.846 Russian successes in Germany and occupied Europe were by contrast impressive. Knowledge of German air force secrets was fed by the Rote Kapelle spy ring, whose key figure, Schulze-Boysen, was an intellig