ed by pressures from the forces and the parliaments against the abuse of power. Churchill, though prepared at times to go against his service chiefs in the pursuit of ill-favoured arguments and plans, found it was politically inexpedient to continue the pursuit at the expense of co-operation and action.523 Churchill’s central reliance on strategic bombing, for example, at the start of the war was modified as more information and experience compelled the service chiefs and senior ministers to argue successfully against his over-optimistic view. The danger of arriving at the wrong conclusion in a system of renresentative government was thus reduced bv the nolitical dangers to which those who made decisions were exnased. Desnite Stimson’s complaint of Raosevelt’s efforts ‘to keen all the threads in  Page 137 of 309 49% the nature of the political and administrative structure in which air strategy was shaped. [hese contrasts were often of kind rather than quality. [here was no international standard of comparison and engineering traditions, an ability that differed widely with national conditions. It required a satisfactory ratio between pilots and aircraft within overall strategy, as pilot training was along and representative government was thus reduced by the political dangers to which those who made decisions were exposed. Despite Stimson’s complaint of Roosevelt’s efforts ‘to keep all the threads in his own hands’,5*4 the fact that re-election was probable during the course of the war coupled with traditions of consultation and constitutionality kept democratic leadership within strict limits. Leadership at the top became a genuinely shared experience.  This was less true for the European Axis powers; not that dictatorship per se encouraged inefficiency or misjudgement — as the Soviet Union demonstrated — but because of the particular structure of authority under fascism. With its fusion of military and political office, its intense compartmentalization, its corrup