n. In both enterprises the gaining of air superiority was vital. Aircraft, either from land bases or carriers, were the main instruments for carrying out the attrition of Japanese naval and air forces, the blockade on trade and, later in the war, the bombing of the mainland economy. The attrition of the Japanese air force, like that of the Luftwaffe, was a central concept in Allied plans for gaining command of the air, and emphasized once again the fact that air warfare was a continuous operation rather than a series of decisive battles. Although a concentrated Japanese air attack could still gain local and temporary supremacy, as over Guadalcanal in the early stages of the campaign, Japanese forces found themselves continually outnumbered from the middle of 1942  Page 102 of 309 37% Japan for defence purposes. In June 1944 the number of home-defence fighters was 260, by July 1945 it had risen to 500.276 Large numbers of aircraft had to be diverted as well to the Chinese Japanese aircraft were destroyed on the ground.278 From the second quarter of 1942 Japanese fuel consumption exceeded total production and imports, and the gap was made up through the use of large stocks built up before 1942. More fuel would have been available had the American blockade not been aimed at fuel supplies in particular. As it was there was too little fuel to keep naval and air forces in operation or to fuel those increases in production necessary to defend oil imports and break the blockade.272 onwards, and by aircraft that were better powered and more heavily armed. In the final attempt to relieve New Guinea in June 1943 a force of 120 fighters and medium bombers was met by a force of over 100 superior American fighters. 107 Japanese aircraft were destroyed for the loss of six American. In the Battle of the Philippine Sea over 300 Japanese aircraft were destroyed for the loss of 23 American.38° The unequal battles were made worse for the Japanese forces because of the problem of traini