nto industrial and military planning. The air war was won and lost not only in the skies but in the factories and research establishments. No study of the air war would be complete without taking some account of the personnel involved. In the case of the air forces this raises some interesting questions. In most cases air forces emerged as independent services. In some cases they were subordinate to the army and navy. The different constitutional position was often dictated by the nature of the emergence of early air a -_— forces, the strength of opinion among the other two services and the nature of recruitment and leadership. In Germany the Luftwaffe achieved significance as the specifically Nazi arm and was led by men who were both committed Nazis as well as airmen despite the resistance of the Prussian army to an independent air service. In Japan there had never been the same problem. The air forces were branches of both the Army and Navy, and formed an important part of both traditional establishments. To a certain extent actual performance in war was conditioned by problems of organization, personality and leadership. There was no question of a shortage of recruits, although pilot training was an important factor in the air war. But there were questions associated with the leadership corps that sometimes produced fundamental differences between air forces and in many cases actively contributed to military success or disaster. There was also a more general social background to the air war. The air forces were all new. Around them developed the special mentalité of air power, an ‘airmindedness’ that affected populations deeply in the inter-war period. Few people remained ignorant of the supposed threat of air power, and air raid precautions became a part of everyday life. Air power carried with it a kind of mystique which made it both threatening and exhilarating at the same time. Some of the mvstiaue has contributed to that tendencv to exaggerate the role of ai