uestions tended to take priority in the firms over production questions.”4! The entrepreneurs believed it to be more important to have a variety of new designs to offer to the ministry than to be able to produce a standard design as efficiently as possible. During the war the air force developed no fewer than 86 aircraft designs.742 When Milch assumed control over the technical sector in 1941 he found all the major replacement projects in disarray. In fighter, heavy-bomber and medium-bomber development at the expense of production.735 In Japan the problem of model selection had its root in the division between the army and the navy and in the influence of the services on aircraft Even when compelled in 1944 to undertake more co-operative aircraft development the navy and army ignored the directives and continued to develop proscribed projects in secret.727 In addition individual firms, and to the secreting of information.722 Not only did production suffer dramatically through poor control over design and modification, so also did quality. firms’ managers were originally designers. This meant in effect that design and development questions tended to take priority in the firms over production questions.”“! The entrepreneurs believed it than 86 aircraft designs.“42 When Milch assumed control over the technical sector in 1941 he found all the major replacement projects in disarray. In fighter, heavy-bomber and medium-bomber development aircraft had been chosen and scheduled for production years ahead of their true development time. Firms were tooled-up to take on the production of the new types but because they were far from ready for serial production the plans had to be scrapped. The resulting loss of output at Messerschmitt, Junkers and Heinkel was considerably greater than the loss caused by bombing.743 Instead of building the new models, the Luftwaffe was forced at short notice to begin a programme of modifying established types in order to make up for lost output.