al and military context was often crucial in explaining its material and moral performance. Failures in strategic direction or in the way in which strategy was translated, via the air officer corps, into action could not be undone however numerous or well-equipped the air squadrons were. It is thus with leadership in this wider sense that any discussion of organization and morale must begin.  (i) Leadership in the Air War  In almost all cases air forces were administered by government departments and operated by air staffs. In Britain and France the air ministries were in turn responsible to parliaments. In America the air force was not an indenendent service and was renresented at hisher levels af savernment hv the War Nenartment of which its administration formed a nart. Tn Russia. Germanv and Italv the  The use of the atomic bomb, whatever the wider diplomatic and strategic purposes in using it, represented the culmination of a bombing policy begun by Britain and Germany five years before.*!2 could act decisively to end a war on its own. The ‘knockout blow,’ in all its horror and inhumanity, finally proved its point. war, all the more so since air power was a new and untested weapon.*2° From its nature, however, air power made certain demands on all the powers. It required an ability to link together military the air force was not an independent service and was represented at higher levels of government by the War Department of which its administration formed a part. In Russia, Germany and Italy the highest authority for deciding questions on air affairs was the individual state leader, although in Russia the decisions were usually collective decisions based on initiatives theoretically inspired by Stalin.521 Immediately below the government departments were the air staffs. Although the status of the staffs differed according to the degree of independence enjoyed by the air force within the military structure, the function of the senior air officers was largely t