ced but production was restricted in favour of smaller aircraft because of the need to save resources.236 Had Stalin personally been committed to heavy bombing, the necessary machines might have been available earlier. There was, however, fairly widespread scepticism among Russian leaders that bombing could be decisive or was worth the diversion of effort from the main strategic aim. In addition the shortage of suitable machines, the lack of technical aids for bombing, the problem of raw materials all contributed to an acceptance that for the likely duration of hostilities Russia would gain little by strategic bombing. Moreover the distances involved were usually prohibitive. The long-range air arm (ADD) set up in March 1942 was used mainly to bomb front-line troop and tank concentrations and also carried out vital supply and transport work as well as supplying guerrillas behind German lines. Given its limited resources and prospects these aspects of bomber use made considerable military sense.237 For the Luftwaffe the situation was different. Experience in 1939 and 1940 had shown how important it was to have a strategic bomber capability and to attack targets (airfields, aircraft factories, etc.) well in the enemy rear. Yet such activity was expressly forbidden by Hitler in the early stages of the campaign, betraying a failure to see how closely integrated ‘strategic’ and ‘tactical’ air operations actually were. Hitler was no doubt influenced in this decision by his personal disappointment at the failure of the Blitz. ‘The munitions industry’, he complained, ‘cannot be interfered with effectively by air raids. We learned that lesson during our raids on English armament centres in the autumn of 1940. Usually the prescribed targets are not hit.’238 He was also convinced that there would not be any necessity for strategic air operations because of the speed of the campaign. It was hoped that Russian air bases, stocks and factories would fall into German hands before t