staffs. Although the status of the staffs differed according to the degree of independence enjoyed by the air force within the military structure, the function of the senior air officers was largely the same. These functions included the operation of the air force, its day-to-day military administration and the discussion and recommendation of strategy and tactics. In some cases this included the technical and industrial planning unless a separate office existed for questions of supply. Air policy and air strategy were developed through co-operation between the staffs and the civilian authorities; sometimes, as in Japan and Russia, through the agency of the armed forces supreme command, sometimes as in Britain and Germany through direct ministerial channels. Policy-making at the highest level was the result of close co-operation between the professional airmen and the civilian leadership. In almost all cases such co-operation, though fraught with problems of personality and inter-service rivalry, was essential in order to place air affairs in the wider context of the war, and in order for those with the technical and military expertise to pursue arguments and define priorities for which they could claim competence. Although civilian leadership possessed final authority such authority could not be properly exercised unless there existed a high degree of consultation and discussion for which the staff and ministerial committee system proved the most satisfactory under the circumstances of war.  The committee system was central to the task of running the air war. The technical complexity of air forces and the novelty of their use and organization made such co-operation essential. It had other advantages too. It prevented any one figure or group of figures, either from the military or the government, being able to dominate decision-making and to prevent professional consultation. Such a system fitted in more easily with democratic traditions of government and worked mor