ons proved to be a spur to greater production efforts both through increasing the scale of planning and improving efficiency.  (vii) The Quality of Aircraft There exists a danger in any explanation of wartime economic performance in exaggerating degrees of inefficiency. All the powers, with perhaps the exception of the United States, were plagued  with resource and mobilization difficulties. It was in the nature of things that efforts would be made to overcome them, and what appeared to be a considerable gap in productive performance between two powers could be closed by wide differences in factor endowment. Thus had the Axis problems been simply those of resources and organization it was not unlikely that they would have made to expand aircraft output.226 In defence of such allocation the other users accused the aircraft industry of hoarding and inefficient use. Both charges proved true. Wasteful shop methods excess of needs. This miscalculation encouraged hoarding and led to high levels of scrapping. Milch discovered that over half a ton of aluminium was wasted in the production of each aero-engine.727 hoarding the metal and using it for inessential civilian production.”28 In Britain strict controls over civilian use and careful scheduling produced a much larger number of aircraft from a smaller  been overcome through ingenuity and improvisation as in the First World War. The Soviet Union had far fewer industrial advantages than Germany after the economic dislocation of the invasion and occupation of most of industrialized Russia, yet nevertheless managed to produce more aircraft than Germany in every year of the war. Moreover the evidence suggests that great efforts were made in Germany and Japan as well to expand output to unprecedented levels. The reasons for their comparative failure in the field of aircraft output rests with one critical residual difference between the Axis and Allied powers in the way in which aircraft models were selected and design changes