ain removed and the GHQ Air Force was given a separate status under the commander of the Army Field Forces. The Air Corps was opposed to the division of command which gave too much responsibility to army personnel in planning and directing air affairs. Stimson decided early in 1941 to vlace the air forces under a single commander. Following the anvointment of an Assistant Secretarv of War for Air a general reorganization resulted in the creation in Tune 1941 of the Armv  Page 71 of 309 24% 1941 to place the air forces under a single commander. Following the appointment of an Assistant Secretary of War for Air a general reorganization resulted in the creation in June 1941 of the Army Air Forces, commanded by General Arnold, and directly responsible only to Army Chief of Staff. The AAF controlled both the combat and service commands although the relationship between the two sides and the relationship with the War Department was ill-defined. This lack of definition led eventually to a structuring of all air forces in Circular 59 of 9 March 1942 which altered the whole war command structure. The AAF were made co-equal under the Army Chief of Staff with the ground forces and service forces. General Arnold was allowed to act as Chief of Staff for the Air Forces — although legally only a deputy chief — and was thus able to control not only the building up of air forces but also how they would be used in operations. Sufficient autonomy had been granted to avoid a repetition under war conditions of the political struggles of the previous decade, and to make possible the execution of an independent and general air strategy.253  The establishment of an acceptable command structure for the AAF coincided with the efforts to establish a satisfactory framework for active co-operation between Britain and the United States. This was necessary not only to establish common strategic aims but also to integrate economic preparations and to devise a means for the mutually favourable cond