d occupy land. Burma in fact represented the fullest extension of Japanese ambitions. Yamamoto argued for attacks on Ceylon, Australia and the supply route from America to the south Pacific. The  Page 97 of 309 34% ~ se — _ | neo revised to 582. In fact by December only 158, again largely obsolete, aircraft were available.242 Although Britain recognized that air power properly used was a crucial ingredient of imperial defence Staff instructed the British commander that ‘Avoidance of war with Japan is the basis of Far East policy and provocation must be rigidly avoided’.3*° This instruction was made fully in the knowledge army argued that it did not have the resources for anything more ambitious. The strategy decided upon was the protection of the perimeter, the exploitation of available raw materials to the full and the protection of all internal sea lanes while the war in China was brought to an end.3°3 In fact so swift had been the initial victories that Japanese strategy was left in some confusion. Little thought had been given to the longer-term implications of the original plan. If for the Japanese it represented a fait accompli to flourish at the Allies in the hope of fresh negotiations, to the Allies it meant a fresh challenge to even greater military efforts to achieve uncompromising victory over the totalitarian powers.254  (ii) The Allied ‘Defensive-Offensive’  British strategy in the face of the Japanese victory was straightforward: to safeguard India and the Indian Ocean by a limited defence and to prepare at a future date, to be determined by victory in the Middle East and Europe, for the eventual re-occupation of captured areas. The frontier with Burma was consequently strengthened and a large complement of modern aircraft made available. Madagascar was occupied and Ceylon and the outlying islands reinforced.355 The major part of the Far Eastern plans was to be decided by the Americans within the wider framework of the Allied grand strategy. At the Arc