e eee eee nee ee eee ee eee ee eee ee eee ee ee nee eee ee ONY NNN IND Ne NIE EN ODL IDD IES Nel ON Ne Ne NG EN ONDA DED BEND between April 1943 and September 1944 in addition to providing guidance for surface vessels and long-range aircraft in making attacks on submarine targets.28? up to the present time’ he once again ran up against the hostility of Goering.221 Neither Goering nor Hitler were persuaded that the navy’s demand was as serious or as urgent as its leaders made out. pens.222 course of 1943, more than justifying the diversion of resources and scientific effort to the waging of air war at sea.223 Although there were complaints that too much effort had been diverted the Allies Low ie hier ER  Aircraft played a vital role in the war at sea, particularly in the Pacific war. The American ‘Hellcat’ fighter-bomber proved to be among the most versatile of the new range of naval aircraft. Naval aircraft were also used extensively in the Mediterranean. Imperial War Museum (iv) From Casablanca to Victory By the time the Allies met at Casablanca in January 1943 a favourable outcome to the battle at sea or in Africa had yet to be achieved. Victory in these two areas was shortly expected but poor  Page 82 of 309 29%  preparation and co-operation had postponed it beyond initial expectations. There was still argument between the Allies as to the strategy most appropriate to the defeat of the Axis powers. Such indecisiveness reflected a fear that Russian defeat, apparently so nearly achieved at Stalingrad, would postpone the completion of the European war and make it far from a foregone conclusion. Nevertheless certain strategic facts were obvious. The Axis powers had lost the initiative in both the west and the Far East. Italy was close to defeat and the ring around Germany was drawing tighter month by month. For the air war this had certain implications. The first was that the bombing offensive was unlikely to be mounted on a sufficient scale in time for independent e