egy and to devote large resources to it in the face of all the arguments for diverting such resources to other purposes. But even the carrying out of a bombing offensive did not settle the argument about whether it was worth the effort or not. This was the result of the difficulty in separating one circumstance from another in explaining the Axis collapse. But it was also the result of the nature of a bombing offensive itself. For many airmen it only made sense if it could ultimately achieve decisive results on its own and except for the rather special case of the atomic bombs this was not achieved beyond question. But for the Allied forces as a whole the bombing offensive made much more sense as an important instrument complementary to the ambitions and objectives of the armed forces as a whole. In this respect bombing was successful or not successful depending from which perspective it was viewed.  ao cod 1 o ” a aaa noe a 4 1 toa a4 paws oat oa as  Page 110 of 309 39% the attrition of air forces had produced a situation in which Japan could not continue the war.406  Since it was the complementary nature of a bombing offensive, contributing to the winning of air supremacy and the winning of land and sea battles at the same time, that attracted Allied leadership to it in the first place, it would do more justice in assessing bombing to view it from this perspective. Within these narrower terms bombing did what was expected of it. (i) Preparation and Purpose  The first power to mount a bombing offensive, though a comparatively ineffective one, was Germany. Even those powers more attracted by inclination or experience to army co-operation as a first priority were well aware by 1939 that they could not afford to ignore bombing altogether. Indeed until the failure of the Blitz the Luftwaffe, like the RAF, believed that bombing was an essential instrument when other forms of warfare had reached a stalemate. Nevertheless, a popular belief developed after the war that Ger