ops and supplies to the front, and to undertake tactical bombing attacks of rear depots and bases to speed up the progress of an attacking army, or to strengthen the resistance of a defending one. The defensive role, which relied in most cases on offensive tactics, lay in the protection of ground troops and rear areas from enemy air attack. The best means of defence was regarded as offence, the ability to knock out an enemy air force before it arrived at its target, so that the tactics for either role tended to blur together. The winning of air superiority over an enemy air force was achieved when it was forced back permanently on the defensive; command of the air was won when the enemy could no longer undertake air sorties. In either case once the enemy air force was neutralized or defeated the task of the air force switched to supporting ground troop attacks by air-to-ground combat instead of air-to-air combat, the characteristic of the early stages of a battle.  Most of the air power theorists between the war failed to stress two points sufficiently. The first was the need to make generous provision for reserves, for air forces deteriorated at a steady but largely Even numerous and well-armed air forces found air superiority difficult to maintain in the war when reserves and production were lacking. The second was the fact that air activity was continuous. Air ‘battles’ in the conventional sense in which armies and navies fought battles could not be fought because air forces apparently defeated could be reconstituted within days by new production, repair or re-siting. Moreover in order to help a land battle materially it was necessary for air forces to be engaged on a wide number of tasks over a considerable period of time and although superiority might be gained at one moment or in one place it was often to prove during the war that this was at the expense of superiority somewhere else. It is perhaps not surprising that such points were not emphasized enough. Th