and partly because those communities suffering from demoralizing bomb attack retained insufficient political energy to demand that a government surrender rather than face further attacks. In Japan it was high political pressure rather than popular pressure from below that led to the efforts to secure an end to the war, a fact that demonstrated how fallacious had been the expectation that bombing would turn populations against governments and end the war through internal convulsions. Bombing was more successful in interrupting production and bringing the military machine to a halt than in carrying out those tasks of terror and intimidation so publicized in the pre-war period. Despite the horror of bombing and the way in which it imposed a widespread and direct involvement in the war, the ordeal remained subsidiary to the contest over economic and military power with which the air war was primarily concerned. In terms of the effect of bomb destruction on the course of the war, it was the destruction of industrial resources, including labour, that determined a country’s ability to continue the war, not the dislocation of community life itself. In fact in Germany at precisely the time that bombing was reaching its peak in terms of the destruction of cities and disruption of civilian life, the German economy had achieved peak output. The political and military consequences of bombardment on civilian populations thus assumed a character quite different from that anticipated. Such destruction became, in Portal’s unfortunate phrase, ‘incidental’. 879 The war in the air had a wider impact in other ways as well, for many of the contrasts between the ways in which nations prosecuted air warfare indicated more fundamental contrasts in the way in which the war was fought and organized. One theme dominating the history of the air war was the relative importance of the military establishment in organizing a nation for war. In the Axis powers militarism and military society were ce