bombers) were all defensive responses. Moreover they elicited in turn an offensive response from the Allies’ own research stations. Even the jet aircraft which finally came into production in 1944 was ordered by Hitler to act as a fighter-bomber rather than a fighter in a vain attempt to halt the bombing by a renewed threat of German retaliation. Even if Germany was not far behind, the important point was that German technology was now following, not leading. The other alternative facing the Luftwaffe was to develop new kinds of weapons altogether. Yet here again poor strategic planning from the top, coupled with the difficulties in mobilizing science led to long delays. Moreover the arbitrary way in which Hitler gave preference to some projects and not to others made it uncertain that the most strategically useful research would be promoted above the rest. The attitude of the German leadership to the prospect of atomic ic weapons was sceptical. Hitler doubted whether such a weapon would be completed during the war he 1e planned and aL. ot ate 2 a ite a tt _ | ee re ar eee cone <iea< en — 4 ea atti tae eo ene, Jencer ofeach wearnnge heme ee. re ee  Page 201 of 309 ThA% BA Ra BE as PSS ERR Ik RE VO AAs AVA ARN RR SEE SAR ALAA EF EE SEARS SEN OF AIR SILAS EE, FSM SSAA ee FER EE EES, UU EA SEA GAN CER IR AEE CORRE Nae VAI AAS IAA RELAAS CASE ASE SS CASS LS eee thle Lee timetable to the point of undermining the project altogether.8° To some extent this was a result of Hitler’s own search for secret or ‘wonder’ weapons and his way of dealing with those researchers research in case Hitler should take up their cause and berate them for subsequent delays or promises unfulfilled.£!© This was true for the German aircraft firms as well. In efforts to get contracts and demonstrated. The establishment by the War Department of the New Developments Division in 1943 was intended to restore the balance between pure and applied weapons research.®!3 The selection of existing types.®16