he oil, bauxite and other raw materials were located. In addition army bombers undertook part of the attack against Japanese air power by attacking bases and supply depots in the Japanese rear along the lines of tactical air attacks in the European theatre.384  As the perimeter was successfully penetrated under a large air umbrella and with the use of fast carrier task forces for capturing key islands and bases the possibility for the Americans of using bombing for more than tactical support finally arrived. It was as this point approached that growing differences began to emerge between the American army strategy and that of the navy. The navy had been largely responsible for the successful offensive in the central and south Pacific and in giving considerable support to MacArthur in the army attacks in the south-west Pacific. The navy wished to continue the Pacific offensive as originally planned, capture Iwo Jima and Okinawa as advanced bases for the final assault on southern Japan. AAF heavy bombers operating from other Pacific bases would have the task of preparing the ground for a large-scale amphibious attack like that in Europe, codenamed ‘Olympic’. In fact after the capture of Okinawa the American Third Fleet bombarded the coastline of Japan and destroyed remaining Japanese air power in a series of preparatory battles and had deployed some 26 aircraft carriers, 64 escort aircraft carriers and 14,000 combat aircraft for the final attack on Japan.38> Against this strategy there developed several army views. The first stage of the army strategy was the re-occupation of the Philippines and Formosa, which, though not essential to the navy plan, was considered to be expedient on political grounds. It also gave the army units a more definite goal. The second prospect was the defeat of Japan through the China-Burma-India theatre. This view had been held as a possibility earlier in the war. The plan consisted essentially of two features. Attacks by American and Briti