n and Germany five years before.*12 6 ~ Leadership, Organization and Training  The record of the air forces during the Second World War was governed to a considerable extent by questions of leadership, organization and training. Although a great many similarities existed in the way in which forces were organized and trained in different countries, there remained differences of military tradition, differences in the availability of resources and fundamental differences in the nature of the political and administrative structure in which air strategy was shaped. These contrasts were often of kind rather than quality. There was no international standard of comparison for judging the less tangible aspects of warfare since they reflected national circumstances and the impact of war. Indeed no country was immune from incompetence and misjudgement in the air war, all the more so since air power was a new and untested weapon.52° From its nature, however, air power made certain demands on all the powers. It required an ability to link together military and engineering traditions, an ability that differed widely with national conditions. It required a satisfactory ratio between pilots and aircraft within overall strategy, as pilot training was a long and complex affair and losses high. Replacing pilot losses was quite unlike the more familiar task of replenishing infantry divisions. Any failure to provide sufficient engineers, pilots and technical ground staff, without which no air force could operate, placed severe limitations on the future combat performance of those air forces in which the failure developed. In the end all such questions depended on the intentions of those who led the air forces and decided air strategy. How the air force was integrated into this wider political and military context was often crucial in explaining its material and moral performance. Failures in strategic direction or in the way in which strategy was translated, via the air officer corps, i