ns will hit them from the air heavily and relentlessly...’872 From the outset German and Japanese air policy was more cautious. In the German case this was rooted in Hitler’s openly expressed belief that ‘a country cannot be brought to defeat by an Air Force’,8”1 a belief reflected in the growing emphasis on land power. In Japan air power was only possible in inter-dependence between the services and between strategies to produce a list of components that were either more or less decisive. Just as an aircraft could not be flown without a propeller, nor a propeller fly without its aircraft, so was air power related to the war effort. The introduction of the jet engine, to continue the metaphor, produced as great a revolution in air power as, for example, nuclear weapons did in military strategy as a whole. But changes as decisive as these, though in evidence at the end of the war, were decisive for the future of war, not for the war fought between 1939 and 1945. The only conclusion that the evidence bears is the more negative conclusion that victory for either side could not have been gained without the exercise of air power.  At the time, however, this conclusion was never in doubt. The air war assumed a significance in the popular mind out of all proportion to the contribution of air forces to victory or to the technical capabilities of the air weapon. That this should have been so is not altogether surprising. Until war had actually broken out imagination was allowed full play with air power. Popular fears were fed by politicians anxious to gain support for rearmament or to press a particular foreign policy against conflicting counsels. During the war itself political calculation combined with the actual experience of bombing continued to give the air war more domestic impact than any other aspect of the conflict. Popular fears were understandable. For one thing the information available on air warfare was highly selective. During the 1930s great efforts were made