rman and japanese economies were conspicuouSly less successful at this conversion than those of the Allies. Not that the fascist powers could ever hope potential; the flexibility of the social structure; the competence of the administrative machinery; and the degree of integration of scientific life into military and governmental affairs. The mere possession of aircraft was not enough. Aircraft ensured that the war would become a ‘people’s war’, making full demands on the technical, intellectual and moral resources of all the warring powers. 1 ~ Preparing for War  By 1939 it was widely believed that the air weapon was coming of age. The experience of the First World War, when advanced technology had already suggested the changing contours of modern warfare, persuaded many, politicians and generals among them, that the next war would be an air war. This was partly founded on the uncritical expectation that science was now harnessed sufficiently closely to military life to produce a stream of new weapons; of secret devices from the air whose nature could only be guessed at. It was founded too on the more critical scrutiny of what aircraft had actually done in the First World War. In reconnaissance work, in support of troops on the ground, in co-operation with the navy on the first clumsy aircraft carriers and primarily in the carrying out of bombing campaigns independent of surface forces, the aircraft threatened to dwarf the contribution of the other services or even to supplant it altogether. Yet by 1939 a combination of military conservatism and technical impoverishment had produced air forces that could do little more than the air forces of the First World War. Certainly the quality of aircraft had changed over the period but only dramatically in the last two or three years of peace before 1939 and then at too short notice to allow strategic and operational planning to catch up with it before war actually broke out. The development of air doctrine during the inter