roblems. First of all Germany was itself being bombed more and more regularly by Bomber Command, at night and with increasing lack of discrimination in choosing targets. Hitler took the opportunity of a heavier raid on Berlin to announce in the Reichstag on 4 September Just now... Mr. Churchill is demonstrating his new brainchild, the night air raid... When they declare that they will increase their attacks on our cities, then we will raze their cities to the ground. We will stop the handiwork of these night air pirates, so help us God!’141 His mounting  oat aie aoe 1 aoe aoa ad a 14 a4 tee fatie saan aoa on ae aso wae. 1  Page 44 of 309 14% possibility — however remote — during 1940. The Supreme Command staff assumed for some time that the change in targets was simply a tactical switch, as Goering claimed.1*° Hitler, on the choosing targets. Hitler took the opportunity of a heavier raid on Berlin to announce in the Reichstag on 4 September ‘Just now... Mr. Churchill is demonstrating his new brainchild, the night air raid... concern at the kind of war that was developing and which he, among other war leaders had sought to avoid before 1939, persuaded him of the need for reprisals and inclined him towards the night air raid, an inclination confirmed by the disastrous results of the early attempts to bomb London by day. Hitler’s second problem was the need to bring some decision in the west before turning towards Russia. The use of the terror weapon, which he now considered to be under no moral imperative to withhold, was a final gamble in the search for a quick end to the first stage of the war. By 14 September he claimed that the air attacks ‘could work decisively for the war’. As a general solution to these several problems the Luftwaffe proposed to end the war by bombing alone, the dream of the air theorists of the 1920s.142 The equivocal way in which the Blitz began was reflected in the actual campaign itself. Once it became clear that no decision could be reache