c impact than any other aspect of the conflict. Popular fears were understandable. For one thing the information available on air warfare was highly selective. During the 1930s great efforts were made to conceal the scope of air rearmament and air plans, with the result that what information did become available often gave rise to temporary panics among the communities that felt themselves to be at risk. The bombing of Guernica and Italian gas-bombing in the Abyssinian war were but two examples. Moreover the selective general air strategy invoivilig a large-scale alr aererice at home, Combined With a large Commitment to Naval aviation, would fave made alr force co-operation with the army on the Kussian front more, we and the British and the Russians will hit them from the air heavily and relentlessly...’.27° From the outset German and Japanese air policy was more cautious. In the German case this was rooted nature of air information played into the hands of those who pressed for more rearmament. Exaggerated reports of the possible effect of bomb damage, or the technical capacity of aircraft, were given wide currency either to alarm public opinion sufficiently to create pressure on government, or to exert direct pressure on the government itself to pay more attention to air affairs.  Part cause, part effect, of the popular view of air warfare was the growing importance of air power for propaganda purposes. Such propaganda was widespread, from Hitler’s attempts to bluff other powers into believing German air strength to be greater than it actually was to the Soviet claim that: ‘Aviation is the highest expression of our achievements. Our aviation is the child of Stalinist industrialization.’8”2 It was used everywhere for avowedly political and strategic purposes. In the 1930s it was used extensively by the fascist powers to show how air power embodied the spirit of the new fascist soldiers. It was used just as widely in the Soviet Union as an open expression of the cha