al air forces came to dominate the staff, and had been continued into the war after the failure of strategic bombing in 1940, and as the demands for fighter and ground attack aircraft from the eastern front had multiplied. The Luftwaffe was never able to build up a large enough offensive air force to be able to go back to the initiative and the production of a balanced air force designed to achieve air supremacy. The large new production of fighters in 1943 and 1944 made little difference to the situation, first of all because the loss rate had become too high by 1943, secondly because of the rapid deterioration in the training and number of crews available.  The first fact was inescanahle. In 1943 the increase in strensth failed ta match the increases nrodiuced hv Germanv’s enemies. Rv 1944 the so-called ‘Production Miracle’ of the Fichter Staff  Page 89 of 309 31% UL MAY ALL SLBA LIB AILS WUE LIU VEILIELILS WELLS CUNUEMILICLOM UY LESLIE CULLIUAL SLALIUIIS CEL UP AL LEVER Led PULLS UP PVUOLIs LAS SALOU LADIES UE AEE Olid. DULL LILELE WLS ACE MAIER EELIE SS LY UVELRUe. industrial targets offered to Allied bombers.316 Under such circumstances it was perhaps surprising that the Luftwaffe achieved such success against bombers in 1943 that both the RAF and AAF strengthening German defences.3!7 Combined with a policy of large-scale production and a lead in radar technology air superiority passed to the Allies even over Germany itself. While Galland and hand, and tactical uncertainty on the other.3!2 While Hitler himself predicted in September 1943 that the mastery of the air would be regained for Germany in ‘two to three months’,32° the Luftwaffe generals saw that the air war had a quite be overcome later in the war. The loss of initiative had produced an unbalanced air force as the bomber programme had to be cut back progressively in favour of fighters.321 This tendency had been The first fact was inescapable. In 1943 the increase in strength failed to match the increas