tised a general air strategy. A general air strategy involved the pursuit of all four of the major aspects of air doctrine simultaneously, while Providing ope: upp s. In the British case this meant the resources were thinly spread i in the early years of war and only air defence proved its strategic worth. But by 1941, in fact at the time that Germany was adopting a more limited air power, resources had expanded sufficiently to cope with the wide range of air force demands. The adoption of a general strategy showed sharp contrasts with the limited strategy of the Axis powers.  In the first place a general air strategy necessitated giving greater autonomy to air forces, making them co-equal with the other two services. Without such autonomy it was difficult for air forces to keep a major share in decision making or to construct strategies of their own. In the second place a general strategy required the diversion of massive economic resources to sustain it. Without such an industrial and scientific commitment a general air strategy could not be maintained because each major air force function consumed large material resources in its own right. Hence the importance attached by the western Allies to total economic mobilization. Finally a general strategy required what its name implied, the pursuit of all objectives at the same time and continuously. This was an important factor since they were all interdependent. Air and army co-operation, for example, relied on air power at sea to safeguard supplies and on independent bombing to undermine the enemy economy. It was possible to have one kind of air power without the others, but as the German limited air strategy showed, this was at the expense of strategic priorities elsewhere. In the German case a general air strategy involving a large-scale air defence at home, combined with a large commitment to naval aviation, would have made air force co-operation with the army on the Russian front more, rather than less, secure. I