hout the war. The need of the army for rapid and decentralized information on battlefield movements was the main task of German photographic intelligence.85? Strategic intelligence from photographic reconnaissance was much less well developed, and over the course of the war seriously declined, particularly in the west. One reason lay with the nature of German strategy with its concentration on tactical air forces for immediate support of ground troops. The photographic intelligence units were decentralized in order to provide information readily for each small army unit. There was little experience of centralized investigation of photographic evidence, nor was a top-level organization for extracting and disseminating photographic intelligence built up. The personnel involved were low-ranking and were trained more as photo-readers than as interpreters.853 Moreover the Luftwaffe insistence on the use of armed ee ee eee ee ee ee ee ne on a eS Ree NE ee — — —— ee ee ee ae ee ee eS eS ee Eee 1944.840 By this stage the discussion was largely academic. Both sides knew that there existed a wide disparity of numbers while Allied intelligence knew that German production even under the the degree of effort required on particular operations.®*! In all three areas scientific intelligence, which was much more developed and influential than its German counterpart, was used to reach a on Luftwaffe developments in aircraft and weapons.®4” British espionage also provided valuable information, particularly on radar and secret weapons development. It proved much easier to recruit committed anti-fascists in Europe for espionage work than for fascism to recruit its very limited band of supporters abroad.®8 Air intelligence in the Luftwaffe was not unaware of the shortcomings. was to actually procure information abroad, were poor for much of the war.84° Allied intelligence services were certainly not free of inter-departmental rivalry, but air intelligence as a whole was given forces exce