The Air War 1939-1945 by Richard J. Overy Published by Plunkett Lake Press, November 2020 Copyright © 1980, 1987, 2005 by Richard J. Overy Originally published by Europa Publications Ltd., London, in 1980.  Overy, Richard J.. The Air War, 1939-1945 (p. 1). Plunkett Lake Press. Kindle Edition.  Preface This is not a ‘blood and guts’ book about the air war. It is a general history of the air war. General in the sense that it covers the whole war period and all the warring powers; and general in the sense that it covers not just the military campaigns but the wider strategic, economic and scientific world that encompassed the air war. The purpose of the book is to show two things. First of all why the Allies won the air war, in the narrower sense of the contest between air forces. Secondly, to show how important air power was to the achievement of overall victory. The answer to both questions lies not so much in the battles, whose details have been retold many times before, but with what went on in the background. There is as a result much less on battles and air fighting and much more on strategy, tactics, training and production. The air war had its limits set by decisions of government, by the economic environment, and by the level of scientific and technical achievement. Only by understanding this wider historical context can the familiar aerial battles themselves be understood. There are a number of obvious pitfalls in attempting such a history. From its very nature the book appears perhaps too general. I am well aware that topics to which I have devoted a paragraph are the subject of a dozen books. The very size of the task is perhaps an explanation of why no general academic history of the air war has yet appeared. Another pitfall lies with the nature of comparative analysis. It is a difficult task to compare the economic and scientific systems of the major warring powers without, albeit sometimes unconsciously, producing some scale of values in making comparati