most all drawn from large-scale industry; industry co-operated closely with the authorities and created its own administration in the National ees ant ee ae oe ee wa Te, ee a, ee! ow ae. ee a re Se 2 ee eS ee oT ae oe ae oe ee we or ee eee ee a! a Se, through the creation of the ‘Fighter Staff’.©1 The ‘Production Miracle’ that resulted, although planned beforehand by Milch, was only possible because of the final centralization of all production. The them with younger Fascists loyal to Mussolini rather than with trained administrators or industrialists.©*3 In Japan the difficulties in administration were not due entirely to the absence of able administrators, officials were recruited from industry and politics as well as the Civil Service, to fill administrative posts. Such homogeneity, born largely of acommon class experience and a shared American administrators were also recruited from a wide spectrum of the managerial and professional elites where there was experience of administration but no bureaucratic tradition.©§4 Aircraft War Production Council.§*5 In Britain contact between industry and administration was very strong, the exchange of personnel regular, and the crucial positions in the MAP given to men, like Beaverbrook himself, with wide commercial experience. It was precisely because of such close ties that the British and American governments were able to impose financial regulations and to create large government-owned plants with the minimum of resistance from the laissez-faire industrial establishment. Nor was this process confined simply to the western capitalist powers. Soviet Russia created an administrative cadre for the war economy out of those with experience in industrial and planning management under the industrialization drive. In this particular case the Soviet experience of predictive planning was even more wide-ranging than that in the western industrial corporations. Since so much of the production of aircraft was a question of proper sche