he Luftwaffe found itself in such difficulties. First of all the front changed so rapidly and the Russians destroyed installations so systematically that it was difficult to provide adequate maintenance facilities near the front. In fact many of the damaged aircraft had to be transported back to Germany to await repair by an aircraft industry already overstrained by shortages of labour. Secondly the temporary airfields that had to be constructed were often based simply on rough grassland which proved as hazardous to aircraft as enemy action, particularly as there was often poor communication due to the enormous demands made on the signals regiments in getting radio and telephone links set up in sub-zero temperatures.122 Moreover the sheer number of such airfields constituted a major task in itself. One Luftgau (air administrative district) completed 105 airfields in the course of the 1941 campaign. Another problem was an organizational one. The job of supply and maintenance was given to Air Administrative Commands (Luftgaukommandos) that were run by low-ranking ex-First World War officers (Ergdnzungsoffiziere) brought back into active service in a reserve capacity. They had little technical training or aptitude for the tasks but much enthusiasm.2°2 The problem was exacerbated by the creation of Special Duty staffs recruited  Page 60 of 309 20% March 1941 economy be re-orientated to meet the needs of the Luftwaffe and navy this was to begin only after the achievement of ‘military mastery of the European continent’.1%3 The failure to gain such mastery priority, after the fall of France, nothing was done to switch actual production to air force requirements. In fact production went down.1*4 The main problem lay at the planning stage. Every major crisis.12° By then, however, it was too late to do anything effective for at least a year. New production capacity would take time to set up. In fact Germany was not to start producing at the same rate was reduced to 1,045 serv