‘Fighter Staff’.©! The ‘Production Miracle’ that resulted, although planned beforehand by Milch, was only possible because of the final centralization of all production. The over administrative spoils that developed during 1944 between the Gauleiter, the SS and the more successful of the Nazi ministers.®52 them with younger Fascists loyal to Mussolini rather than with trained administrators or industrialists.*3 In Japan the difficulties in administration were not due entirely to the absence of able administrators but to the demands of the junior officers for a say in how the air forces were run and supplied. After the reforms of 1943 it was the political pressure of the officer groups that fuelled the hostility between civilian and service organizations and kept much of the running of aircraft production in military hands. In Germany the problem of Nazi penetration of the administrative apparatus was less acute because many of the officials had been administrators before they were Nazis. But in the crucial positions in the ministry and in aircraft production promotion depended less on merit and more on party loyalty. Goering himself was a poor administrator. Those he chose for high office were equally ill-equipped for the task. Even Milch whose energy was used to great effect in improving the performance of aircraft production after 1942 was compelled to play a political game at the same time as carrying out his other duties, to the detriment of sound administrative practice. In both Japan and Germany the additional problem of keeping control over production in the hands of the services narrowed down the area of recruitment for administrative work and created a division between civilian and military experience that only began to be breached as the war situation deteriorated.  By contrast the homogeneity of the British political, industrial and administrative establishment was a considerable advantage. Lacking a strict bureaucratic tradition and a large reserve of sk