enemy army. In the United States the air forces were restricted by the regulations laid down in 1926 in the ‘Fundamental Principles of Employment of the Air Service’ which directed that air forces should be organized ‘on the fundamental doctrine that their mission is to aid the ground forces to gain decisive success’. The fact that the air forces were constitutionally subordinate to the army command and the army-dominated War Department confirmed the auxiliary function.2° In Germany the independent Luftwaffe was strongly influenced by the traditional army thinking of the air force staff which had been largely recruited from the army in the first place. The principles governing air force use were laid down in 1936. It was emphasized that ‘the decision in war can only be achieved by the co-operation of the three services’ for ‘the foremost goal in war is to destroy the enemy armed forces... it is the task of the air force in leading the war in the air within the wider framework of the whole war, to serve this goal’.2! Since the strategy favoured by the army was the swift blow with armoured forces against the main weight of the enemy army, air forces were built up to complement it. The small medium bombers, dive-bombers and heavy attack fighters were all developed with the support of the German army in mind.22 The same was the case in Russia and Japan.  ee a et i et te ta et 8 a et ei i tn te ee tt  Page 18 of 309 4% activity which is concentrated on cutting off supplies will help to bring about the defeat of Great Britain’.1° But lack of preparation, poor co-operation with the jealous Luftwaffe, and the failure to largely uz te. Even numerous and well-armed air forces found air superiority difficult to maintain in the war when reserves and production were lacking. The second was the fact that air were all developed with the support of the German army in mind.2? The same was the case in Russia and Japan. In all these cases the control over the air forces exercised by t