fronts. The Luftwaffe did not regard Soviet air tactics as more than rudimentary. Hitler’s gamble appeared to have paid off. By October an apparently demoralized and ineffective Red Air Force could do little to prevent the progress of German armies. Yet by the end of the year a combination of an early winter and growing Red Army and Air Force resistance brought the wide offensive to an end. Not only did the failure to defeat Russia in three months leave the German armies unprepared for winter fighting, it left the Luftwaffe in great difficulties too. There had been little effective strategic appreciation of what should be done beyond the immediate plan; little or no operational preparation for such a contingency; and — having regard to the expected conditions of a Russian winter — incomprehensibly few technical preparations for fighting in sub-zero temperatures. No amount of good training or tactical superiority could make up for poor planning and preparation. By the end of 1941 the Luftwaffe was actually  .oaatie ae oA . waa re 1 toe a cere) ao. ea n core wait, .  Page 56 of 309 19% the Central and southern sectors and to eliminate the effectiveness of the Ked Air Force there. German confidence lay not only with their own battle experience but with estimates that total Ked Air battlefield than it had had in the battle of France and the preparations for Sealion.18© aircraft per annum were produced in 1939 and 1940. In fact Russian sources show that 10,382 were produced in 1939 and 10,565 in 1940.187In 1941 Russian air forces in the west, including reserves, being held before Moscow as were the German armies, and the relief of the Demyansk pocket from the air, although ultimately successful, was a Pyrrhic victory, for the Luftwaffe had to overstrain and waste resources that were needed for more vital strategic tasks elsewhere.12° By December it was clear that the initial demands made of the Luftwaffe in Hitler’s strategy were far greater than its resources could bear