ilian authorities in running the economy. The Cabinet Advisory Board was established to survey the necessary changes and in November 1943 a Munitions Ministry was established with a specific charge to take over aircraft production from the army and navy and unify it under civilian control. But by that stage the services were too committed to the aircraft programme to lightly give it up and the inter-service rivalry and lack of co-operation continued. They continued to submit demands for resources which by-passed the new agency and refused in many cases to be bound by ministerial directives. When Fujihara replaced Tojo as Munitions Minister in 1944 he found that the services simply ignored the new administrative structure and put pressure on the firms to supply what was wanted according to traditional practice.©5° PEHUCAL AULIIOLILY ILSell. FILLE! do LIE PULILEL, NIUSSOLITI ds LILLE LUUCE All LIE JaPAalles€ EIMVerOl, WILLIE Lie MOlriiidl SOUICES OF SUCII AULIIOLILY, CACICISEU Lt dtl d COMSLILULIOTI dal PAtiied Uilall ACIS tL AlLiVve information was passed on to all the departments involved of what was happening elsewhere.®4¢ The Aircraft Scheduling Unit and later the Aircraft Resources Control Office performed some of the same functions for the American system.®4? Equally important was the whole question of co-operation. Both vertical and horizontal liaison was vital for aircraft production because planning could Munitions Minister in 1944 he found that the services simply ignored the new administrative structure and put pressure on the firms to supply what was wanted according to traditional practice.95° In Germany the reform of the economic administration began during 1941 and was completed during 1942 by the creation of a Central Planning Board and a series of production associations under Speer. But even these reforms had only partial success. There was still a central machinery lacking to link the various civilian and military departments together and aircraft p