ally by Goering.82® The same mistake was made about the United States. Goering’s public expression of contempt for the American economy was matched by intelligence reports from the Luftwaffe that America could only produce at the most 16,000 aircraft in the first year of war. In fact over 47,000 were produced, helping to lay the foundation of Allied superiority in the air over the Axis powers.832 The same mistake was made by the Japanese in estimating American potential. The Axis decision to go to war with the United States, though made separately, was strongly influenced by a joint misconception about Allied potential strength. As the war progressed the obvious contrast between Axis assessment and military reality led to a reversal of judgement. German intelligence began to overestimate Allied strength in 1944, having very little information on which to base such assessments except for an espionage source in Stockholm, while Allied intelligence, impressed by the effects claimed by the Combined Bomber Offensive, began to underestimate German production throughout 1944,840 By this stage the discussion was largely academic. Both sides knew that there existed a wide disparity of numbers while Allied intelligence knew that German production even under the ‘Fighter Staff’ was still numerically insufficient to materially affect the issue. For Britain and the United States conventional intelligence was used in the conduct of the bombing offensive. Intelligence was used to assess the effect of attacks, to select targets and to estimate the degree of effort required on particular operations.®*! In all three areas scientific intelligence, which was much more developed and influential than its German counterpart, was used to reacha judgement. In some cases scientific solutions, such as the use of proper navigational aids, had a considerable effect on the success of operations. In other areas conventional counter-intelligence was used, with particularly good effect in the diver