he skies. Air supremacy was achieved rapidly even if the Allied air forces were never completely destroyed. But for the purposes of the battle plan the air force was designed to do no more than this. No bombing campaign in the rear ensued and it was always clear that the main purpose of the air force was to help ease the path of the advancing armies rather than to provide decisive action of its own. It was the main thrust of the heavily armoured mobile divisions that broke the Allied armed forces. To this end the Luftwaffe played an important but auxiliary role.122  Page 37 of 309 1% in the supply of aircraft of almost two to one.112 Moreover Britain and France were able to call on the aircraft manufacturing capacity of the United States, which, despite the political arguments over for air defence, the French for the expected attack in the west.12!  In the face of the overwhelming success of the German combined offensive the Allies’ air strategy, that had always been far from clear, became yet more confused. The RAF stationed in France and the French air force concentrated on attacking troop movements and the battle areas as well as protecting the Allied troops from attacks by the Luftwaffe. The RAF stationed in Britain, however, hada different role. The French wished the British to use as much of this force as possible to help in the battle. Some bombers were used on the southern front for that purpose while others were sent from southern bases in England to harass German communications and concentrations with little success.123 Bomber Commanzd itself was anxious to be allowed to turn to bombing Germany since the decisive moment of the land battle seemed to have arrived with the rapid collapse of Allied resistance at the end of May. On 15 May the first strategic bombing operation against the Ruhr was carried out to attack oil and railway installations. The Allied air effort was thus dispersed over a number of objectives with little effect. The conflict between Fren