one moment or in one place it was often to prove during the war that this was at the expense of superiority somewhere else. It is perhaps not surprising that such points were not emphasized enough. They depended upon combat experience. What combat experience there was during the inter-war period tended to be between enemies of very unequal resources which gave few clues as to how an air war was to be fought between large air powers with a greater parity of striking-power. Moreover air doctrine, being drawn closely into the general battle  doctrine of the army leadership, was still over-influenced by Clausewitzian thinking from which it was slowly disentangled as the war progressed. re SN Britain and Germany, were re ces to navies or to work in co-operation with naval forces.15 The land-based bomber was seen to be the key to sea power in any future war and Ce mining campaign because of the diversion of insufficient aircraft for the task, and the refusal of Goering to give it any priority or to train the crews required for the specialized work.12 Raeder believed No army disputed the fact that air power was an important part of its armoury. Dispute arose over how the part was to be used. In those countries with an independent air force and a less influential army the tactical use of air forces was less constricted by army requirements. Where the air forces had relatively little independence or were tied to armies with powerful combat traditions, tactics were subordinate to the army view. This was the case even in those countries where the air force itself wished to play a more autonomous role but was denied this by the influence of the army. Armies began from the premise that the main function of air power was to give support to the ground forces in the destruction of the enemy army. In the United States the air forces were restricted by the regulations laid down in 1926 in the ‘Fundamental Principles of Employment of the Air Service’ which directed that air forces sho