crises in India or Iraq tended to confirm the importance likely effect of a bombing campaign in the late 1930s did it become aware of the shortcomings, both technical and tactical, in carrying such an offensive out.*5 By that time the air force was already aeroplane is not adaptable to defence’ and that ‘nothing man can do on the surface of the earth can interfere with a plane in flight’.46 By the time Baldwin made his remark that ‘the bomber will always get through’, the disparity in performance between fighter and bomber aircraft was still so low that the prospect of a successful fighter defence seemed correspondingly unlikely.47 Anti-aircraft do so. Page 24 of 309 7% defence would not be imitated abroad, or not until 1t was too late.“ In 1955 the KAF, under pressure trom politicians and senior soldiers, accepted the Ke-orientation Flan under which greater Science and intelligence came together in the radar war. German radar was only marginally behind that of the Allies by the end of the war. Its use on the battlefield was also vital. Imperial War Museum The RAF was the only air force before 1939 to place such reliance on the defensive capabilities of the fighter. This fact was dictated partly by strategic priorities. The British government concentrated efforts on being able to retain Britain’s position of geographical immunity from large-scale invasion by adding air power to sea power as a means of defence. For European countries the threat of large scale invasion hv armies across land frontiers was the more immediate. and air nower was nrimarilv to he used in assisting armies to carrv out or prevent successful invasion. Some threat of large scale invasion by armies across land frontiers was the more immediate, and air power was primarily to be used in assisting armies to carry out or prevent successful invasion. Some means of air defence was certainly created but with less urgency and fewer resources than in Britain. In Germany a chain of radar stations was also