aware had ta ha being more or less similar. A really major shift in quality, such as that implied with the jet aircraft or rockets, might in itself have led to a shift in the balance of air power. Hence the powers had to be prepared not only to produce large quantities of aircraft but at the same time to assure the maintenance of at least an approximate technical parity. The 1935-45 period saw a rapidly accelerating rate of technical change in aircraft and equipment which placed a great premium on scientific and engineering skills and necessitated the close co-operation of scientific and military establishments. Some powers, like Japan, depended to a large extent on successful imitation and were hampered by a lack of sufficient native engineering skill to keep up the technological race. Only in America and Britain was enough attention paid to the fact that air planning had to take full account of change over time. Forward planning was one of the most important tasks of any air staff and one which had to be fully and carefully integrated into the administrative apparatus in such a way that there would always be better weapons in the pipeline and a strategy to use them. Germany arguably enjoyed a technical lead in 1938-39. Japan certainly had close to parity at the same time, yet in both cases that lead was squandered through poor development procedures and wrong strategic decisions. With the exception of the German jet fighter — which itself suffered in development from Hitler’s intention to use it as a bomber — the Axis powers fell further behind not just in quantity but in quality too. There were certainly German scientists capable of keeping Germany at the forefront of research. What failed to materialize was an entirely satisfactory way of integrating such research into industrial and military planning. The air war was won and lost not only in the skies but in the factories and research establishments. No study of the air war would be complete without taking some