crifice was demanded for the sake of the Emperor, and for the sake of personal honour. This was reflected in the growth of the Kamikaze campaign. After some limited success with ramming aircraft and ships at the cost of both aircraft and crew the air forces stationed in the Philippines developed special attack units, the Tokubetsu-Kogekitai, which were organized for suicide missions ‘as a temporary expedient’ because of the impossibility of using aircraft in any other effective role.®16 The decision to enforce the military code to the point of self-sacrifice was not new in Japanese military life. Soldiers were trained to give their lives for the Emperor and the first suicide squadrons were composed of volunteers. Later all pilots were ordered to undertake suicide missions, and preparations were accordingly made to prepare all the remaining 10,000 aircraft, mainly trainer and obsolete models, for suicide attacks when the Allied forces invaded mainland Japan. Pilots who returned from suicide missions were imprisoned, and substantial moral pressure was put on the trained crews to make the sacrifice.®!” But far from evoking widespread resistance, the evidence of demoralization stemmed more from the relative failure of suicide attacks than from the fact of having to make such attacks in the first place. That such discipline could be maintained in the face of obvious defeat was a final confirmation of the power of the Japanese military tradition, just as that defeat itself stemmed in part from too great a reliance on a military ideal instead of military materialism upon which American strength was based. The same ideal permeated the military establishment in Germany as well, and was vulgarized by European fascism in general. The air forces served to reinforce it because of the novelty of air power and the emphasis it placed on individual courage, discipline and endeavour. Such idealism helped to spread a mythology surrounding those who flew the aircraft. The romance of ai