skilled workers  new aircraft though in fact they had an established pedigree. The essential thing about such modifications was that they should interrupt the production life of aircraft as little as possible.732 In would introduce the necessary changes immediately before delivery to the air units.733 In Britain the system was more wasteful in terms of quantity but maintained a higher average quality. Major modifications were introduced as and when the military situation justified or in response to technical changes in, for example, engine power. But the modifications were carefully screened by an MAP Aircraft Modifications Committee to ensure that only urgent changes should be incorporated, and to discuss with industry the best way of making such changes with the least interruption to output. Such a situation was much less wasteful of effort than the complete design and introduction of new aircraft types. Vickers Supermarine company spent 330,000 man-hours on the design of the Spitfire Mark I, but only 620,000 man-hours on all the subsequent fifteen Spitfire marks. For jigging and tooling-up for the Spitfire Mark I some 800,000 man-hours were expended. The average time for all subsequent marks was 69,000.734 In both the British and American case civilians had as much say as the airmen in choosing new types or design changes, with considerable influence given to the industrialists themselves as the organizers most likely to suffer from too many alterations. By avoiding domination by air force demands, and through a permanent awareness of the production effect of design changes, the interruption to production was kept to an acceptable level. Although it remained the single most important explanation for shortfalls in production the quality of aircraft remained high and the quantity more than adequate. Page 185 of 309 68% subsequent marks was 69,000.74 In both the British and American case civilians had as much say as the airmen in choosing new types or design changes