the bomber force was designed to destroy air installations and aircraft on  Page 96 of 309 34% re re i as a an ae nor the bombers were available fully by the time of the attack on Pearl Harbor.347 One reason for this was that reinforcements were directed south to the Philippines where an aggressive defence was the ground and had to be protected from enemy fighter interception in order to carry out its primary function. Unknown to American intelligence the Japanese 11th Air Fleet based on Formosa had carried out experiments to extend the range of the Zero fighter from a maximum of six hours flying to up to twelve hours in order to fly fighter cover direct from Formosa to the Philippines and back. The result was the complete elimination of all American air forces in the northern Philippines.3*2 The scattered disposition of Allied air strength also gave a tactical advantage to Japanese forces which were able to concentrate air forces at each stage of the advance against dispersed Allied air strength. Such concentration was made possible by the use of fast aircraft carriers. The carrier fleet under Nagumo that destroyed the American fleet in Hawaii continued to be used throughout the campaign to give protection to fleet movements and to speed up the advance in the south. Only where it was difficult to mount large concentrations of aircraft, particularly naval aircraft, was air superiority harder to achieve. Thus in the army attack on Burma the modern aircraft available to the RAF were much more successful in denying command of the air to the army air forces. The success of the Japanese army ground assault on Burma demonstrated, however, that British reliance on air power for imperial defence was of little use if it could not be combined with the ability of armies to hold and occupy land. Burma in fact represented the fullest extension of Japanese ambitions. Yamamoto argued for attacks on Ceylon, Australia and the supply route from America to the south Pacific. The  Page