y was drawing tighter month by month. For the air war this had certain implications. The first was that the bombing offensive was unlikely to be mounted on a sufficient scale in time for independent efforts to bring the war to an end through use of air power. The second was the fact that the other two services were determined that they should share in the final defeat of Germany. Air power was an essential auxiliary in this objective but the conquest of Europe by land armies remained at the centre of Allied calculations.  The Casablanca conference provided an opportunity to discuss these issues within the context of grand strategy as a whole. One strategic principle emerged as central to the Allied view of the use of air power. It was considered essential to achieve air supremacy over Germany as a prelude to successful invasion of continental Europe. This was not only because a seaborne invasion against ae eS well-defended coasts gave many advantages to the defending forces but because, in the event of Russian defeat, air action would have to make up for the numerical advantage enjoyed by Germany by reducing its economic ability to wage war.2% Harris reiterated this principle when resisting the diversion of bombing effort to submarine targets when he stated that ‘the decided policy of the war is to bomb the enemy soft until a comparatively small land force... can overcome his remaining resistance’.29> Because of the central place of air power in the strategy for eventual victory there was growing concern by late 1942 that insufficient aircraft were being produced by the Allies to achieve this aim. The problem was not, however, an insufficiency of aircraft but the danger of dispersion of effort. If some Allied airmen were unhappy about the movement of forces to the Mediterranean, there was even greater resistance to Admiral King’s efforts to divert aircraft to the Pacific. Even though aircraft were diverted to the battle at Guadalcanal the insistence of the AAF on th