owers against whom the offensives were directed both affected, and was s affected by, the course of the bombing. Much of the response depended o on the way i in which bombing was perceived. In Japan there w were few illusions  4 sade wa a saad a . a . aoa ae a oe 1 1 1 aa Aone  and transportation at the expense of all the other primary objectives.47” Eisenhower had clearly intended that American bombers be prepared for this role from the start. He told Churchill in 1943 that offensives were directed both affected, and was affected by, the course of the bombing. Much of the response depended on the way in which bombing was perceived. In Japan there were few illusions about the impact bombing might have or the American intention in using it. Hence the stress on building a defence perimeter sufficiently far from the Japanese mainland to prevent bombing.422 In Germany bombing was regarded differently. The perception was based partly on the experiences of the Blitz whose disappointing results, when combined with the heavy losses inflicted on Bomber Command's first sorties, allayed German fears that a sustained bombing campaign could be carried out. Hitler, too, believed that Germany had a certain geographical protection having conquered western Europe, arguing that the range to be covered by British aircraft was so great that the effort of bombing could not be sustained. So firm was the belief that when the first long-range fighters were shot down over Germany both Hitler and Goering refused to believe it, preferring the suggestion that they were short-range fighters drifting with the prevailing winds.48! The most costly miscalculation was the belief that the Allies were carrying out only a morale-breaking exercise, mistaking the economic warfare for terror-bombing. To a certain extent the mistake was not altogether surprising since most of the early bomb attacks failed to hit an obvious military target even when intended. The randomness of inaccurate area bombing certai