n these areas that the policy of modification to improve quality was implemented, first by the Allies and then, with great haste, by Germany.®!” The only possibility of a radical departure in aircraft technology lay in the discovery of a new source of engine power and in bombs of a higher level of destructiveness. Both these possibilities were being explored for the first time in the years just before the outbreak of war, but neither was advanced enough in development to contribute to the kind of air warfare both sides expected to be waging in 1939. When war broke out the Luftwaffe enjoyed a marginal lead in air technology of a conventional kind. The difficulties of mobilizing scientific and research efforts sufficiently, the lack of urgency in the early years of war and the search for anew generation of conventional aircraft whose performance turned out to be no better than the aircraft already in use reduced that lead and finally in the course of 1942 and 1943 lost it altogether to the western Allies. The British and American air forces had concentrated research efforts at what were seen to be critical points: engine power, armament, radio and radar equipment.®!8 This research produced by the middle of the war aircraft capable of a much further range, greater load capacity, better navigation and higher speeds. From 1942 the Luftwaffe too began to concentrate on the weapons already in use and to modify them in the same way as the Allies, with considerable success. But being forced back onto the defensive in 1943 the Luftwaffe was compelled to gear research and development much more to the initiatives of the Allies. Radar and radio aids for night-fighters, better armament for attacking the heavy bombers, fighters with a greater ceiling (to be able to reach the Mosquito bombers) were all defensive responses. Moreover they elicited in turn an offensive response from the Allies’ own research stations. Even the jet aircraft which finally came into production in 1944 was