ack of aluminium in Germany was partly overcome by the elimination of waste caused through the technical miscalculation of aluminium needs per aircraft. Nor were governments unaware of resource deficiencies. Efforts were always directed towards those factors of production in short supply rather than those which were adequate or in abundance. Standards differed also from economy to economy. Where the use of wood for aircraft production in Russia was not a handicap in terms of gross output, the need to resort to it in Japan proved of little value because of the poor quality of work and lack of experience in plywood and resin technology.”2 Resource limitation was also a result of how successfully aircraft production could compete for resources with the other services. Since many resources were essentially finite there were clearly defined economic boundaries beyond which war production could not be taken. Yet as with labour utilization the development of more rational methods of production and greater vigilance exposed a high level of waste particularly in those economies most exposed to shortages. The best example was the use of aluminium. Supplies of aluminium, as the most convenient metal for aircraft construction, had to be expanded rapidly during the war to meet rising demand. For the Allies this meant expanding supplies from North America from where most Russian and a large proportion of British aluminium was supplied. British home production of aluminium actually  daclinad haturaan 1020 and 10/1 urhila imnarte inerancad hi almact 960 nar rant avar tha cama narind 724 Althauch aluminium avnarte nravidad enma diffieultiac far Amarioan indiuctry in tha aorly eT l,lCUmDO = = ee suspended. The response to the situation led in Germany to high levels of absenteeism, labour obstructionism and high labour turnover.”!” In Japan conscripted labour was compelled to go where be paid for by the state, while wage levels in war industry as a whole rose in step with inflation.7“