o work. In the war in the Far East aircraft decided sea battles, symbolized in the Battle of the Coral Sea in which not a naval gun was fired though great losses were sustained from air attack on both sides. In the western European theatre the bombing offensive, whether used for tactical purposes or against strategic targets in Germany, created the conditions necessary for the transition for the Allies from defensive to offensive strategy. At the same time it forced the German forces, as it was designed to do, to a defensive position in the west through which it became increasingly difficult to regain the initiative. Yet in all these enterprises the air force conformed to the general ambition of the forces as a whole. The central goal of defeating the enemy  forces and destroying the will to resist could be achieved only by combined operations. An autonomous air strategy was only possible with the nuclear technology made available in the last days of the Pacific war.  There was, however, a distinction between the role of air power in support of the armed forces as a whole, and the role of air power in defeating the enemy air force. The winning of the war in the air in this narrower sense was carried on both alongside and in harness with the general war. Implicit in pre-war air doctrine had been the view that air power should be exercised in both ways, as a vital means of support for surface forces and as the means of destroying enemy air power. But during the war there developed an explicit dichotomy between those powers that practised a limited air  £U OUTTIC CALEIIL ULIE TILE MOC LU ds CLOUT OL ULIE All Wal, LIKE LILES COULUTIIIL CLLULL, Wao A QULOLIUEL UL LQEOUULCE DS, 2 1Ie CULIPIEA AIM CAVEILOIVE TIO W LECIIIIUIUEY Wilil Wilieil LILES ail Wal Wao LUU EI COUN 110 strategy and those who developed a general air strategy. The limited use of air power was confined to one major role in support of the other services. In the case of Germany it was used in support of th