ffensive. Only 500 aircraft with low serviceability were available, including only two groups of night-fighters with poor radar.32” Because of the system of army command over air units, each fighter defence group was assigned to a specific territory and could not be used for operations in support of neighbouring areas. Ground-to-air communication was too poor for centralized control of fighters even in these smaller defence areas.328 The Japanese defenders had the one advantage that the extreme concentration of Japanese industry allowed a high concentration of anti-aircraft fire around the threatened areas. But even this could not compensate for the sustained attrition of air forces or the deteriorating economic situation. Throughout 1945 there was little effective opposition. It was under such circumstances that the Kamikaze tactics were introduced. Such tactics combined the Japanese military ethic with the pragmatic argument that suicide attacks constituted the most efficient use to which Japan’s shrinking stock of aircraft could be put.322 The fact that large numbers of training aircraft were also converted to suicide purposes reflected the finality of the Japanese decision, for no future air force could be reconstructed after the wastage of the Kamikaze campaign. Nor did the campaign itself show any appreciable results. Like the German rocket campaign its effect on morale at home was more important than its military effect, although in both cases the Allies gave the effort more attention than it merited. Although some 402 ships were hit only a quarter were sunk or severely damaged out of a fleet of thousands, while in the Okinawa campaign over 3,000 Japanese aircraft were destroyed.4°° Kamikaze sorties declined rapidly as the  nanncoart aivaraft and nraure utara dactrarad Tha fiesirac Far tatal carting utara ne Fallarure: necessary aircraft and crews were destroyed. The figures for total sorties were as follows: Table 8: Sorties by Suicide Pilots, October 1944 t