eeeEeEeeEeEe eee eee eee eee eee ee eee ES eee eee ee—e—e—————_——eEeEeE———E——E————————————eee——__—— eee ee for making generous provision for wastage. Even against the Polish air force the Luftwaffe had lost 285 aircraft with 279 damaged against a loss of 333 Polish aircraft.1!2 Between the defeat of Poland  . The Luftwaffe was able to protect its own troop movements as well as attack southern bases in England to harass German communications and concentrations with little success.123 Bomber Command itself was anxious to be allowed to turn to bombing Germany since the campaigns. The Blitzkrieg strategy relied on aircraft co-operating with the army for its maximum effect. One reason why Hitler had no need of independent strategic operations was the expectation that victory could be achieved more economically and more rapidly by using forces in a combined way. Under the circumstances of general strategic air weakness in 1940 this was a sensible choice. In every other department aircraft performed in a very limited way. In the trade war submarines were clearly more important than aircraft and very little work had been done on co-ordinating air- sea operations. In bombing it was clear that under the technical conditions of 1940 the amount of damage that could be inflicted and the accuracy of bomb-aiming left much to be desired. Even the relentless bombing of the Dunkirk evacuation did little substantial damage and proved indecisive. All the evidence tended to point to the fact that air power had been greatly exaggerated and that denying air space over the battlefield to the enemy was, as in the First World War, the most important contribution that air forces could make.  The defeat of France was expected to lead to the British capitulation. The fact that it did not left Hitler with two alternatives, either to blockade the British into surrender by intensifying the trade war or to attempt the actual invasion of England. Both strategies were soon to be subordinated to the n