ond was the fact that air were all developed with the support of the German army in mind.2? The same was the case in Russia and Japan. In all these cases the control over the air forces exercised by the army ground commanders was the essential instrument in tying aircraft to the requirements of the army. In Russia the ‘attack doctrine’ of Tuchachevski developed in the mid-1930s combined with Soviet combat experience in Spain convinced Stalin of the need for largely tactical air forces.23 The Red Air Force was accordingly organized along close-support lines. In the spring of 1939 special mixed air divisions (smeshannaya diviziya) were created, composed of a complement of fighters, bombers and reconnaissance aircraft to be attached to each army group, while certain army corps kept their own squadrons of aircraft for reconnaissance and communications work. The new mixed divisions were subordinate to the needs of the individual army divisions, each of which was expected to be given close support on the battlefield by particular air squadrons. Even the long-range bomber aircraft were split up between the army groups for use on mainly tactical missions close behind the front.”4 This integration of air forces with small land units was practised in America and France as well, as a means of checking what would otherwise have amounted to a claim for operational independence by the air forces. Although German command and organization was more flexible that was largely because both sides agreed on the basic role the air force should be performing in helping the army.  In both France and the United States the air forces forcibly expressed the need for greater independence and operational flexibility in the face of army opposition. In the United States the air force tactics, lay 1n the protection of ground troops and rear areas from enemy air attack. The best means of defence was regarded as offence, the ability to knock out an enemy air force before it arrived at its destroy the