as in economic strategy and the timing of mobilization. The Allies were poorly prepared before hostilities and responded by a massive and swift as if) Dritaill, Were Nesotiated at a Ilxed Price. itl da o7 Uile level Was Talse€a tO ic per Celt. 1 fe errors OF CONIELTESS Ill L74U LO TECUCE IL LO & Per Celt WeTe StrOoniery resisted," alld were accepted OIuy ith calculate profit rates on the basis of facilities that they had not built and did not own.7*” This had the advantage of disguising profit levels. The Douglas company, for example, had net profits after tax of 1942, it was not always desirable to enforce too low a profit level in case it discouraged improvements in productivity.752 Turnover expanded so rapidly, however, that even though the average rate cost in a sector which had traditionally found difficulty in raising capital.7© In both Britain and America the commercial interests of capitalism were respected. In both cases a high degree of co- Ministry, run by Zaibatsu executives, on the basis that it was best ‘to encourage private management to increase production’.”® As it turned out the industrialists were much better at achieving the treatment as a result.7®3 The private firms resisted the intervention of the state and feared the erosion of private capitalism. The ministry constantly accused the private firms of ‘business egoism’ and gave less generous treatment in the provision of funds. The firms in return accused the ministry of back-door nationalization.7®4 Because over half the industry was state-run traditional financial mobilization: the Axis was relatively well prepared and failed to perceive the urgency to expand economic resources from an early enough date. The future organizational confusion and inefficiency was caused in part by the difficulties of changing strategy in mid-stream in an area as complex as aircraft production. To the extent that aircraft production was an economic race the late starter was hit in two ways. Not only was it diffic