e campaigns in Norway and the Balkans was not that the RAF should simply become an adjunct of the army, but that the RAF should be allowed to expand numbers greatly to cope with all the general requirements of air strategy at the same time. Thus a combination of strategic circumstance and the doctrinal legacy of the Trenchard period brought the RAF to a realization of the character of a general air strategy, and of the interdependence of its component parts. The existence of a general air strategy side by side with the more limited air strategy of the Axis powers by no means suggested that the former was superior to the latter. In fact the limited use of air power, with its concentration of large forces on a limited objective, was conspicuously more successful in Continental warfare than its general counterpart in the period up to 1941. But what it did mean was that limited air power could not easily be adapted to the defeat of general air power. This meant that Britain could not be defeated in 1940 because the Luftwaffe could not eliminate its air force. It meant that the air blockade of British trade could not be successfully carried on in the face of British counter-measures in the air. Finally it meant that the Luftwaffe was forced to abandon any serious long-term effort to mount a bombing offensive. Even if a general air strategy had not yet been produced capable of any decisive effect it did not mean, as the period after 1942 was to demonstrate, that a general strategy could never be made to work.  Page 55 of 309 18% battle. It was obviously true in the Battle of France, the battles in Africa and the campaign at sea. [he RAF in particular relied on numerical superiority. Other virtues such as good training and high developing between those air forces favouring limited, tactical air power and those favouring a more general air power.1®! Such a dichotomy became explicit in the first two years of war. The reasons 3 ~ The European Air War 1941-45  The year 1941 wa