ng to the overall increase in productivity brought about by the use of unskilled labour and new methods were unwilling and apathetic workers. When subjected to the additional pressures of bombing the result was widespread demoralization and absenteeism.722 Where direct political oppression was added to the fear of economic decline under conditions of wartime finance, the productive effort of the workforce was correspondingly, and unsurprisingly, lower. Differences in capital and labour utilization were also accompanied by a number of resource problems which were not susceptible to organizational or technical rationalization. Resources problems were, however, often exaggerated. Shortages could be overcome either through improvisation or through better utilization. Lack of aluminium in Russia forced factories to use wood construction  pent than Banal mantha fens Taale Af aliminivien In Cane nner tune naetles arenenn sn ber tha alininatian af en nta naiand theauah tha tanhaianl winnalavlatian af alanine nanda nae aienen fe Mae  Page 183 of 309 67% iong series OF easily learnt processes whicn required the minimum of Manual sK1u. In britain and Germany, however, the Nabit of using Nignly skilled workers was Nard to lose. In britain the dliution or never rose beyond 50 per cent of that paid to men. Moreover, despite the wartime inflation wage rates rose only slowly because of controls over labour.”48 In Germany too, although labour was treated what became a black-market for labour operating side by side with the official government controls.712 be paid for by the state, while wage levels in war industry as a whole rose in step with inflation.”“° To get around the problem of high labour costs that this situation produced the new factory methods until the final months of war. Lack of aluminium in Germany was partly overcome by the elimination of waste caused through the technical miscalculation of aluminium needs per aircraft. Nor were governments unaware of resource defici