that was theoretically possible, produced sufficient technological momentum to produce a balance between the development of current types and the production of novel weapons. British evaluation of the atomic bomb research in 1940 produced the conclusion that a satisfactory device could be produced before the end of the war.822 American scientists and soldiers reached the same conclusion. Stimson later wrote that ‘It was our common objective, throughout the war to be the first to produce an atomic weapon and use it... The entire purpose was the production of a military weapon.’823 Nor were the Allies far behind Germany in jet research. The jet engine had been promoted by the Air Ministry in Britain from the mid-1930s. It gained a priority in the middle of  Page 202 of 309 74% military weapon.’®23 Nor were the Allies far behind Germany in jet research. The jet engine had been promoted by the Air Ministry in Britain from the mid-1930s. It gained a priority in the middle of 1941 when it was realized that jet aircraft might be used towards the end of a war fought with otherwise conventional air weapons.®24 Although inferior to the German Me 262, the British Meteor jet fighter became operational against V1 weapons in the middle of 1944. Only the realization that German research was not as advanced as had been at first feared, slowed up the pace of development as research resources were diverted elsewhere. In January 1945 MAP finally gave jet aircraft overriding priority with a demand for ‘as many high quality jet aircraft as quickly as is humanly possible’; but this was for the sake of defence in peace-time rather than war against Germany or Japan.825 Only in rocket technology was there a lag with German research. In this case it had been correctly judged that rockets would not have a sufficient strategic return for the research effort involved except in the case of aircraft mounted rocket armament.®26 The lead taken by German long-range rocket research was thus of little