. In all these areas military domination over the task of waging war had damaging consequences. Civilians and the military co-operated poorly, partly on the assumption that most of the waging of war was a military responsibility. Science was indifferently mobilized. The economy was not fully understood and was poorly  Page 217 of 309 80% aerial bombardment than in the whole United States war effort.87 In China a large percentage of the dead from the war with Japan were the casualties of bombing. Such figures certainly affected recruited until it was too late to make up for past errors. Advanced technology was unsatisfactorily organized and integrated into the war effort because it needed experts in their own field rather than administrative and scientific soldiers to make the selection of weapons and organize production. Had it been otherwise German scientific and industrial strength would have weighed much more heavily in the conflict. At a more general level the claims of the traditional services were inevitably to be preferred to the claims of the air forces. Where air forces were given a prominent role in the war efforts of the Allied powers, which all had a detached interest in developing the best instruments to win the war, the Axis powers, while paying lip-service to the military modernism of air power, remained primarily concerned with the interests, both military and social, of the older services. If there existed resentments between the services of the Allied powers this was not allowed to deflect the political authorities from placing as much weight upon air power as their strategy warranted.  Another general contrast was the extent to which both sides stressed personal military endeavour. In Japan it was the pilot rather than the aircraft that counted. Good pilots were expected to be capable of overcoming even the most advanced technology pitted against them. In Germany, too, the fighting qualities of the airmen were stressed above everything else. To Hi