e warships provided the Japanese armed forces witha means of narrowing the gap that existed between Western and Japanese power in the Far East. The dive-bomber and torpedo-bomber aircraft on which development was concentrated in the 1930s were essential to the success of any imperial expansion which might bring an armed clash with American or British naval power. In 1936 Commander Genda completed the development of Japanese carrier power by getting the navy to adopt his theory of the mass carrier strike-force. By concentrating carriers in one large fleet, instead of using them singly with other capital ships, a very much more decisive attack could be launched at any one time. Although other naval commanders argued that such a fleet would be very vulnerable to submarine attack, it was agreed that the risk was worth taking.’ Such concentrated use of naval air power brought the victory at Pearl Harbor and in southern Asia at the beginning of the war in the Far East. Outside Japan it was necessary to overcome the conservatism of traditional navies before aircraft could be given a place in naval strategy. In the United States General Mitchell predicted in 1920 that air attack would ‘render surface craft incapable of operating to the same extent that they have heretofore, if it does not entirely drive them off the surface of the water’.2 The naval response was divided. Until late into the 1930s individual naval commanders refused to accept that aircraft could achieve what their champions expected. The naval high command was less inflexible, though its attitude fluctuated with the personalities in command. On balance the American navy met the challenge instead of ignoring it. As early as 1919 the General Board called for ‘a naval air service [to] be established capable of accompanying and operating with the Fleet in all waters of the globe’.!° If such a service was slow to develop it was due more to the policy of isolationism than to reluctance on the part of the navy to a