tz. The medium-bombers on which such emphasis had been laid were unequal to the strategic task. Not only was the range of the aircraft poorer than anticipated, the actual weight of bombs carried was far below what was necessary to inflict wide damage. The decision to use the medium-bomber, stemming from the arguments over the shortage of raw materials, absorbed resources that were only fractionally less than the heavy bombers of the Allies. The Ju 88-A4 weighed 21,000 lb, the B-17 27,000 lb, while the latter could carry up to five times the bomb-load of the medium bomber.455 In terms of military efficiency the heavy bomber was clearly more satisfactory. It was for this reason that the Luftwaffe, in common with the Allies, searched for a satisfactory substitute for the medium bomber.  Only the heavy bomber could give sufficient range and carrying capacity to inflict large-scale damage to the vital targets. In Germany the search concentrated on the Heinkel He 177 but because of the slow pace of all research in Germany due to numerous stoppages in the development programmes and the deficiency of German aero-engine design, the aircraft failed to materialize in any  intention to use precision bombing.4=! Only when post-operational intelligence was organized on the ground after the capture of North Africa and southern Italy, and the Bombing Survey (USSBS) was up to five times the bomb-load of the medium bomber.*55 In terms of military efficiency the heavy bomber was clearly more satisfactory. It was for this reason that the Luftwaffe, in common with the quantity.45© Those that did were technically unsatisfactory and the search for an alternative late in the war was carried out in a hurried and uncritical way so that any hope of overcoming the technical restrictions evaporated under the attacks of those very long-range bombers that Germany had sought to imitate. Page 120 of 309 43% as exaggerated during 1943 as they had been in 1941 now that they were once again free of th