apan. In all three cases labour was compelled to accept conditions imposed from above, Unions had been abolished and the right to strike suspended. The response to the situation led in Germany to high levels of absenteeism, labour obstructionism and high labour turnover.7!” In Japan conscripted labour was compelled to go where the government directed and workers were frozen in factories and occupations to reduce labour turnover. To get round the problem of high labour cost more women were recruited whose rate of pay never rose beyond 50 per cent of that paid to men. Moreover, despite the wartime inflation wage rates rose only slowly because of controls over labour.”18 In Germany too, although labour was treated with some 'e circumspection, wage rates did not keep pace with the rate of inflation and forced labour was poorly rewarded. The only thing that pushed wages up was competition between the firms in  ee a ee ee are ee oe ae a oe ee re are a. ees we 22a 1 710 reduced the ability of the Japanese to produce large numbers of technically sound aircraft.2!2 Yet there was also a danger of relying too much on skilled labour. The fact that emerged most clearly from it was discovered that even a comparatively low level of improvement in factory methods led to substantial improvements in productivity.24 Germany it remained a basic bottleneck until dilution was finally accepted late and hurriedly in 1944.745 The price paid for a very high standard of finish was a smaller number of aircraft completed. of evacuation workers were compelled to operate machines in the open, and in factories with earth floors.“¢ Yet although productivity remained relatively low — estimated at a third that of American suspended. The response to the situation led in Germany to high levels of absenteeism, labour obstructionism and high labour turnover.27 In Japan conscripted labour was compelled to go where with some circumspection, wage rates did not keep pace with the rate of inflation and forced