latively short space of time, rendered much of the thinking on bombing obsolete. A new bombing technology was needed before bombing could hope to match the expectations held out for it between the wars. Such ambiguities were made more complicated still by the encroachment of political affairs. Politicians wanted aircraft to be able to fulfil the maximum that air theory promised, and themselves promised the maximum without a sufficiently critical assessment of the practical possibilities. Nor were the air forces, doctrinally divided themselves and uncertain of future trends, in a position to moderate the politicians’ intemperate emphasis on air power. Part of the confusion demonstrated in the public debate on air power during the 1930s was due to the sources of instability within the generation of air strategy itself.  (v) Air Power and Strategy  The development of theories of air power, while themselves constantly under review, called for much re-thinking of grand strategy as well. No power ignored, or could afford to ignore, the advent of air power. In fact the very novelty of the weapon encouraged governments and military staffs to devote more efforts to incorporating air power into strategy than to more traditional strategic considerations. In some respects air power did offer substantial changes. Those countries that had been protected by a natural sea barrier were no longer immune from the direct threat of attack. Even  fan AL TInt nd Obntnn thin fant Lad Lanne cleanses 2nd nen tnd Da nnneenle fe 1014 bn en ein dd Lin need nnnn thant Aen netnnenn 221d nn lan one en nn nee ED ate nn fates ten tae n Af an ae nee ee TR A in the United States this fact had become obvious and prompted Roosevelt in 1941 to remind his audience that Americans could no longer ‘measure [their] safety in terms of miles on any map’.58 As long as aircraft range continued to increase the number of countries that could be reached effectively for attack from another became greater. At the heig