civilian casualties. The accompanying illustration shows a highway leading to a city engulfed in flames. By the road is a signpost labeled “U.S. Route 40" leading from Utah to Tokyo.1 4 7  Government leaders recognized the power of public sentiments for bombing, and it was one of the factors leading them to adopt civilian bombing.1 4 8 America had entered World War II with unparalleled public support for air power shaped by a long tradition of fascination with the airplane and images of its technological messianism, both of which were reinforced by promises made by air power advocates in their crusade to convert the public to the “air power gospel.” Officially, American air power, centered around strategic bombing, was depicted as humane, efficient, and progressive. This was the ACTS tradition of precision bombing. Other images which had pre-dated the war and which stressed the brutal and destructive side of air power, the tradition of Douhet, reemerged during the war and they too made a major impact on the public’s perception of air power. Both images coexisted throughout the war and became potent forces shaping the popular imagination of air power. Significantly, both images promised America salvation through air power. The “Dr. Jeckel” image, the tradition of the ACTS, was most prominent early in the war and would remain a powerful tradition in the postwar popular culture depiction of air power, but Hiroshima and Nagasaki fixed the 77 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 89 --- “Mr. Hyde” image, the tradition of Douhet, most dramatically in the public’s imagination of air power. In fact, to most Americans the atomic bomb had most clearly delivered on the messianic promise of air power in World War n. The public’s support for air power remained strong after World War n, as is dramatically illustrated by a poll conducted during the last months of the war by The Sat