onal form of defense. If anybody missed this point, Shute drove the image home explicitly. When one character suggests that the problem was that nuclear weapons had become too cheap and readily available to even the smallest country, another counters, “Another was the aeroplanes.... The Russians had been giving the Egyptians aeroplanes for years. So had Britain for that matter, and to Israel, and to Jordan. The big mistake was ever to have given them a long- range aeroplane.”2 6 337 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 349 --- None of this background information made its way into the movie, though. When the question of how the war started arises the characters all say that no one knows the specific details. In response to the question of who started the war, though, the answer becomes philosophical and the guilt communal. Everyone started the war by relying on nuclear weapons. When an Australian scientist is asked who started the war he replies: The war started when people accepted the idiotic principle that peace could be maintained by arranging to defend themselves with weapons they couldn’t possibly use without committing suicide. Everybody had an atomic bomb and counter­ bombs and counter-counter-bombs. The devices outgrew us, we couldn’t control them. I know, I helped build them, God help me. Somewhere some poor bloke probably looked at a radar screen and thought he saw something, knew that if he hesitated one thousandth of a second his own country would be wiped off the map so, so he pushed the button, and, and the world went crazy.2 7 Thus the film emphasized an anti-nuclear message and only indirectly implicates air power in the disaster. By conveying its message in the powerful visual medium of the cinema, though, the film was quite effective. People were seen leaving theaters in tears and others point to the effect the film had on shaping their views on nu