r culture are Sherry, Am erican A ir Power,  who explores many popular culture themes through World War n, and to a lesser extent, Com, W inged G ospel,  who gives only limited attention to military aviation; neither explore the full range of air power and popular culture, and each deals primarily with the period up to 1945. 4. Paris, W right B rothers to Top Gun,  6-8, and especially chapters 5, 6, and 7. 5. H. Bruce Franklin, War Stars: The Superweapon a n d  the Am erican Im agination,  (New York: Oxford University Press, 1988), see particularly chapter 2 for the air power popular culture campaign. 6. Laurence Goldstein, The F lying M achine a n d  M odem  Literature,  (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1986). 7. Marshall Andrews, D isaster Through A ir Power,  (New York: Rinehart and Company, 1950), xi-xiii, 4, 7. 15 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 27 --- 8. A word on methodology is in order at this point. One of my primary reference sources was R ea d er’ s  G uide to P eriodic L itera tu re  which catalogs articles appearing in numerous magazines ranging from general interest to specialized. I followed two basic approaches in searching for pertinent articles. First, I searched under such topic headings as “Air Power,” “Aeronautics, Military,” and “United States - Air Force,” for articles dealing with air power topics. Secondly, I searched for articles written by noted air power authors. This method yielded an exhaustive wealth of material. In both approaches, for reasons outlined above, I noted articles listed in aviation-oriented magazines and news magazines, but generally focused on articles carried by magazines known for their mass appeal and primary emphasis on entertainment. Because of the vagaries of topics and categorization as well as the restrictive focus on general interest magazines, I have not attempted a statistical analysis of the frequ