lution and to win the nation’s support for their cause, they buttressed their claims with allusions to past prophecies that they asserted had come true. Redeeming the reputation of Billy Mitchell aided in that cause for if people were convinced to honor past air power prophets they might be more inclined to believe current air power prophecies. THE NEW NATURE OF WAR: THE HEART OF THE AIR POWER REVOLUTION The notion of the warplane revolutionizing warfare is an old one. Da Vinci, Franklin, and Tennyson had all speculated on the tremendous advantage they imagined an aerial army would have over traditional forces. Once the airplane was invented this supposed revolution became the centerpiece of pre-World War II air power advocates. It is not surprising, therefore, that after the war air power advocates returned to the notion that warfare had been transformed in the air age. The postwar claims for an air power revolution took on many of the old themes from the interwar period, such as airplanes over-leaping traditional defenses to strike directly at the enemy’s heart, but they also 193 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 205 --- incorporated new themes, particularly themes driven by new technological developments that emerged late in the war. Not all air power advocates argued the same themes, and at times they contradicted one another, but the air power revolution was a central part of the postwar popular culture campaign, and curiously, one that was largely confined to the early postwar period. The heart of the postwar notion of an air power revolution centered on strategic bombing. Most air power advocates emerged from the war with their faith in strategic bombing as strong or stronger than it had been before the war. As we shall see, this faith extended to an attempt to prove that strategic bombing had won the war, but it also shaped air power advocates’  convictio