wer, and rational/utilitarian futurists felt it could save the nation, some saw nothing but tragedy and potential doom for humanity. The actual appearance of the airplane and air warfare awakened fears of what the warplane might do to society, and thus works began to appear warning about the threat of air power. Few of these warnings came from Americans during this period, though, for curiously America’s view of the airplane long remained either benevolent or benign. As we have seen, American writers in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries saw potential threats, and envisioned air power as a miraculous 34 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 46 --- defense against these threats. Europeans, on the other hand, were more disposed to seeing the darker side of the warplane. Perhaps the reason for this discrepancy lies, not only in the messianic image of aviation peculiar to America, but also in the fact that the threats some Americans saw were less immediate than those faced by Europeans. Blessed with two wide oceans and peaceful neighbors, Americans could indulge in tales of barely- plausible invasions where air power, like the cavalry of another American literary genre, suddenly appeared on the horizon to miraculously save the day without having to confront the darker implications of such power turned against the American homeland.3 6  One well known prophet of the dangers of air power, though, had a significant audience in America. Best known for such science-fiction works as The War o f the Worlds  and The Time Machine,  H. G. Wells was also a prolific commentator on social trends. While he was surprised at the rapid development of the aircraft, Wells nonetheless quickly perceived what its ultimate potential meant for the human race: every man, woman, and child, and society itself, would become not only targets, but also the focus of air power’s destruct