ced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 285 --- 70. Melvin Frank and Norman Panama, prods., Above and Beyond  (Hollywood: Metro- Goldwyn-Mayer, 1952); letter, 11 January 1951, Lay to LeMay, LeMay Papers, Box A-3, Lay folder, LOC; for Air Force assistance in the production of this film see Record Group 330, Entry 140, Box 689, Above and Beyond folder, and Record Group 340, Entry 36, Box 1 , Above and Beyond folder, National Archives. 71. Wesley Price, “How Does Our Air Force Stack Up Against Stalin’s?” The Saturday Evening Post  (6 September 1952): 25, 136-38. 72. Gallup, The Gallup Poll,  1186. 274 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 286 --- CHAPTER 7 THE HEYDAY OF SAC: THE HIGH POINT OF THE POPULAR CULTURE CRUSADE As America emerged from the Korean War the fear of monolithic, imperialistic Communism was reaching a peak. McCarthyites charged that Communist subversion had infiltrated important segments of American society and the late war had confirmed to many that the Soviets were willing to use force to advance their goals. This “Red Scare” also heightened fears that the Soviets would like nothing better than to destroy the most powerful nation, America, standing between them and world domination. This fear led many to consider the prospects of a surprise nuclear attack on America to be a real threat. Through the popular culture campaign air power advocates had convinced many that the one factor detering the Soviets from launching such an attack was the certainty of annihilation at the hands of American strategic nuclear bombardment. After the Korean War, though, the popular culture crusade shifted focus slightly. In keeping with the trend away from theoretical arguments and predictions to more institutional emphases air power advocates less often stressed the concept of st