fare that he personalizes it as “nuclear combat toe-to-toe with the Ruskies.” Even after learning that the “Doomsday Device” will destroy all life on earth if so much as one bomber reaches its target, Turgidson cannot help reveling in the capability of the bomber to “always get through.” Standing in the war room, his arms outstretched imitating a B-52 flying at low altitude, he exclaims, “If the pilot’s good see, I mean if he’s really sharp, he can barrel that baby in so low, you ought to see it sometime, its a sight! A big plane like a ‘52! Vroom! Its jet exhaust frying chickens in a barnyard!” The worst part of the film’s depiction of air power is that there is no escaping these mad airmen. Even the oft touted virtue of the dedicated SAC personnel becomes a vice. When all efforts have failed to stop the bomber an onboard malfunction prevents it from releasing its weapons and the world seems to have been granted a reprieve. The 355 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 367 --- “heroic” dedication of Kong, though, solves the problem and the bomb is dropped on target. But even the looming death of all life for the next 100 years does not shake the airmen from their fixations. After hearing of the idea of setting up underground cities so that a few Americans can live on and repopulate the country Turgidson urges continued reliance on air power in the new era. Counseling the President he states, “I think we oughta look at this from the military point of view. I mean, supposing the Ruskies stashed away some big bombs, see, and we didn’t. When they come out in a hundred years they could take over.” As with Fail-Safe,  the Air Force refused to help with the production but that did not preclude Kubrick from making a movie that was quite popular. Kubrick did request Air Force assistance but the depiction of their Positive Control system precluded any help. Undeterred Kubrick