.... You and several others of our mutual friends have time and again encouraged me in my feeble efforts to pass the word. I had to be sure, first, that it was the right word and you helped me to know that.... To you, for your part in this (and it was a big one) I am grateful.8 2 He then set out to “pass the word” by capitalizing on his own popularity. A measure of his dedication to the cause can be seen in the 24 December 1955 conclusion to his eight- part autobiography serialized by the Saturday Evening Post.  In this article Godfrey stated that the whole reason he planned to continue in broadcasting was because he felt it was his mission to inform the American people about the desparate need for air power.8 3 Godfrey’s impact as an air power advocate came from more than just the fact that he was heard and seen by millions on a weekly basis. He was the most popular figure in radio and television at that time. He averaged over 60,000 pieces of fan mail per month, far and away more than any other personality, and his “boy next door” manner led people to believe just about anything he said. When a mother asked if the Air Force would provide a good environment for her daughter who wished to join, Godfrey extolled the Air Force as a good environment for women and detailed the educational opportunities provided for 122 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 134 --- them. In response he received 152 letters from mothers stating that because of his assurances their daughters were about to join the Air Force.8 4 Godfrey’s idea of air power was simple and straight-forward: the Soviet threat to America could only be detered by strategic air power, so America needed a massive strategic force to keep the Soviets from launching an attack. In 1953 Godfrey stated in an interview with the International News Service that while the Air Force could still launch a tremenous nuclear stri