ner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 43 --- Those who saw air power ushering in a blissful millennium through peaceful means stood in sharp contrast to those who felt that the airplane would be the “ultimate weapon” that would spell defeat for whatever danger threatened America. These rational/utilitarian futurists continued the romantic image of warfare and air power as the salvation of the nation seen in the earlier period. Between 1903 and 1914 this group’s imagined threats reflected either international tensions or current social concerns such as immigration. After the Great War started, though, the Entente’s propaganda campaign focused much of America’s concerns on Germany, and the futurists’  literature followed suit.3 2  Throughout the period, however, these rational/utilitarian fantasies remained little changed in theme or content from those that appeared during the earlier period. These tales are noteworthy because they appeared within American popular culture at a time when aviation enjoyed a powerful hold on popular imagination. These airwar fantasies emerged within a cultural milieu that made such predictions seem entirely plausible. Few nations posed an obvious threat to America before 1914, and consequently future-war literatureimagined threats coming from all over the globe. One example of this is Roy Norton’s The Vanishing Fleets,  published in 1908, in which an unprepared America is confronted with an alliance of Japan, China, and Great Britain. Armed with radioactivity-powered “radioplanes,” an American air force exhibits its awesome power by literally carrying away the British and Japanese fleets, and the whole world submits to universal disarmament under American leadership, and war is abolished forever.3 3 Not all imagined threats during this period were of a political or military nature. Many Americans had grown fearful of immigrant “hordes” entering America’s population, 32 Reproduced wit