d not understand the airmen’s revolutionary zeal, and thus they put their faith in “‘balanced force’  based upon quantitative equality...rather than scientific balance in terms of a given military task.” In a follow-on article he said of the Navy’s attempt to acquire its own strategic bombing force, “airpower has thus made its final convert. The long-standing dispute between the Navy and the airmen...has devolved into a jurisdictional dispute...over splitting up the nation’s total airpower.” He questioned whether the nation could afford two air forces, but in the same article voiced support for a strong Army and Navy.7  With the start of 1949, however, the floodgates unleashed a torrent of attacks on the Navy from air power advocates, and while few matched Huie and de Seversky for strident haranguing, most were uniquely outspoken and direct in their criticism. 232 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 244 --- Air power advocates had begun to charge in 1948 that the Navy was trying to develop its own strategic bombing force, and this theme rose to a crescendo in the early months of 1949. Public attacks on the Navy, along with the wrangling over the nuclear role going on inside the Pentagon, stiffened Navy resolve to build the supercarrier United States.  Spaatz inaugurated the new year and the new tone with an uncharacteristically sharp attack on naval aviation. Claiming that the Navy’s air arm duplicated the Air Force, Spaatz stated that this threatened to starve both the Army and the Air Force as well as the Navy’s submarine fleet. Citing World War II action in the Pacific, he claimed that aircraft carriers proved vulnerable to Japan’s “second-rate air power” and would be even more vulnerable to Soviet air power or submarines. Reiterating his support for a strong Army and Navy, as well as strong land-based strategic air power, Spaatz stated that naval aviation’s tru