s or because he had had a change of heart, with the exception of a mild profile of LeMay in October 1950, he never wrote another pro-air power piece again. Within two months of the LeMay article, Huie was praising Forrestal, once one of Huie’s favorite targets, as a patriotic martyr to the war against Communism.2 2 THE SOVIET BOMB AND THE IMAGE OF AIR POWER IN  AMERICA In September 1949 an American reconnaissance plane detected indications that the Soviet Union had exploded an atomic bomb. While some analysts had predicted that this could occur by 1949, few in America, particularly the general public, were prepared for it.2 3  The nation was shocked, for now the image of an aerial attack devastating America was more than just science fiction or air power rhetoric. In a curious twist of fate, at the very time that air power advocates were striving to reassure Americans that the bomber would always get through, they faced a public desperate for reassurance that Soviet bombers would not. While it might appear at first glance that the air power advocates were now caught in a trap of their own making, as events would turn out this dilemma 241 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 253 --- actually worked in favor of the preferred air power role, strategic bombing. For while there would be considerable public clamor for effective air defense for North America, air power advocates would insist that no air defense, no matter how extensive, could stop a majority, let alone all, of the Russian bombers. Thus the main response to the Soviet atomic bomb among air power advocates was to stress the deterrent capability of a massive strategic bomber force. Air defense would become a vivid public image, but it is during this period that SAC and the nuclear bomber became the dominant image in popular culture synonymous with American air power. In the early postwar years the air power a