yperbole, “deadliest weapon of the free world” and “engines that deliver 7,500,000 horsepower - enough power to light four cities the size of Los Angeles,” yet they include images of frightful destructiveness, “it looks like a prehistoric monster impatient to ravage the earth.” The crews that service and launch the missile are also depicted with a certain amount of overstatement, “[they] spend long hours learning to work together with perfect precision.” But the overall impression conveyed by the authors, that this awesome weapon is part of America’s best hope for security, is best illustrated in their quote from the missileers’  squadron commander: “We are not men of war. We’re men of peace, making our contribution toward preventing another world war. But we’re proud to know that if an aggressor ever forces war on this country our Atlases are ready.” With the question of the “missile gap” dominating the contemporary political debate, the authors even manage to include a subtle reminder that SAC’s missile program is not getting enough funding. After the launch a key member of the launch team goes home to his barracks room and writes to his wife and the authors convey his sad news that she still cannot join him because “Congress hasn’t appropriated funds for enough quarters on the base...and rents in the area have skyrocketed.”2 5 A personal reflection of the magazines’  fixation with SAC was the concurrent attention focused on its long-time commander, Curtis E. LeMay. As commander of SAC from 1948 to 1957 LeMay became the personification of not just the command but strategic bombing as well. His personal characteristics fitted him well as a role model for the image the Air Force, air power advocates, and America’s leadership wished to shape for their nuclear deterrence forces. Gruff and taciturn by nature, LeMay was a forceful 290 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Pag