dvocate Howard Hughes and asked him to make a movie featuring Air Force close air support in action.6 2 The film came out in 1952 as One Minute to Zero.  Hughes turned to another air power advocate for one half of the screenwriting team, William Wister Haines, author of the novel Command Decision.  The movie depicts the Army and Air Force working together closely and shows the Joint Operations Centers functioning smoothly as they receive requests for air support and expeditiously assign plentiful air assets to each mission. In one scene, for example, sixteen F-80s are dispatched to help one threatened company. Time after time throughout the movie the Air Force comes to the rescue of beleaguered ground troops. Army - Air Force cooperation is depicted as cordial, as in the friendship between the film’s star Robert Mitchum, playing an Army colonel, and an Air Force colonel played by William Talman. In one of the film’s dramatic highpoints, Mitchum leads a force deep into enemy territory so it can hold up an enemy truck convoy long enough for the Talman’s air forces to destroy it. The plan works, but Mitchum’s 262 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 274 --- forces are cut off and the Army can not relieve them till morning. Talman comes to the rescue with supplies and air support but is shot down and killed in the process. The movie bears no acknowledgment of military assistance. The Army refused to approve the final product because one scene, not in the original script, depicts an artillery unit shelling a group of refugees that had been infiltrated by enemy soldiers.6 3 In a similar vein the Air Force supported a cinematic effort to highlight American tactical air power and fits the image of the fighter pilot into the image of revolutionary air power. The United Artist film Sabre Jet,  starring Robert Stack, highlighted the F-86, the Air Force’s frontline fighter, and