eless quickly perceived what its ultimate potential meant for the human race: every man, woman, and child, and society itself, would become not only targets, but also the focus of air power’s destruction. In fact, his first major work on the threat of air warfare, The War in the Air, published in 1908, should, in the words of one commentator, be read “as a statesman’s manual” in the same vein as Machiavelli’s The Prince.3 7  Throughout this work, as well as The World Set Free,  the message is clear: air power posed a graver threat than did the Martians in The War o f the Worlds,  for now the seeds of human destruction lay in hands of nations and people, not some other-worldly alien; and salvation would not come through some serendipitous microbial counter-attack but only through human foresight. 35 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 47 --- In The War in the Air,  all the nations of the world are secretly building vast aerial armadas when a global conflict is sparked by a fleet of German zeppelins bombing New York City. In describing how the world sinks into global conflagration, Wells’  insight should have proved valuable food-for-thought to interwar air power theorists such as Giulio Douhet. When the Germans attack, New Yorkers panic at first, and the city’s government, paralyzed, quickly capitulates. But while the Germans negotiate with Washington, the populace soon recovers and a guerrilla-style counter-attack breaks out. Even at this early date, Wells sensed a crucial weakness inherent in air power: it could wreak great destruction but it could not occupy the territory it devastated. In the absence of an occupying force, a paralyzed home government would find it hard to enforce whatever will it might have, especially if key government facilities were destroyed or dispersed. As Wells states, “The Germans had struck at the head, and the head was conquered and st