, or biased by service loyalties. Throughout the first half of the trial, for example, the general who heads the court refuses to allow Mitchell to bring evidence that his remarks were justified because such evidence would damage the Army’s reputation. When Mitchell’s lawyers finally maneuver the court into allowing this evidence the prosecuting attorney is reduced to a caricature of a pathetic, flustered, and indecisive man overwhelmed by the damage the evidence seems to do to his case. The prosecution’s fortunes are only saved by the last-minute arrival of the Army’s “best legal mind” who wins by what appears as legal hair-splitting and by mocking Mitchell’s predictions of the future of air power. Significantly, every one of the predictions that the prosecutor holds up for ridicule, super-sonic flight, trans-oceanic flight, and airborne operations to name just a few, had all become commonplace by 1955, thus enhancing Mitchell’s reputation as a visionary before the film’s audience. The 192 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 204 --- highpoint of this fictional scene is the ridicule heaped upon Mitchell’s prediction that the Japanese will launch a war in the Pacific with a carrier-borne air attack on Pearl Harbor. The redemption of Billy Mitchell was more than just an effort to canonize a man many air power advocates counted as a friend or mentor. Many did believe he deserved honor and the nation’s gratitude and saw this movement as doing justice to one who had been wronged. Also the new Air Force and its supporters needed their pantheon of saints and martyrs and Billy Mitchell fit the bill perfectly. But as air power advocates set out to bring about the air power revolution and to win the nation’s support for their cause, they buttressed their claims with allusions to past prophecies that they asserted had come true. Redeeming the reputation of Billy Mitchell aide