ied by “over 31 papers weekly,” thus in reality Eaker was something of a “voice crying in the wilderness.” He continued to support air power topics like the B-70, but he also wrote on anti-Communism and pro-business topics, and with the growing anti-war and anti-military sentiments in the wake of America’s escalating involvement in Vietnam he often wrote to defend the war and the other services.7 0  Eaker did get one shot at taking his air power message to the “big-time.” In 1963 Arthur Godfrey was a frequent guest host on the 362 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 374 --- Tonight Show,  and he and LeMay conspired to get Eaker on the show as a guest on 6 June 1963. Eaker sent ahead of his appearance a list of questions for Godfrey to ask him on the show. The questions covered the range of topics from national defense to the state of bomber capability so it appears he had ample opportunity to put his air power message before a large audience. Compared to the old days, though, this was small opportunity.7 1 Another example was Nathan Twining. After retiring as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in 1960 Twining wrote “a hard look at U.S. military policy and strategy” as the sub-title of his Neither Liberty Nor Safety,  published in 1966, proclaimed. An analysis of American military and diplomatic strategy throughout the Cold War, Twining’s views might have been mainstream in the early fifties but in the changed atmosphere of the mid­ sixties they were extremist. Pointing to a “fear psychosis” desperate to believe the “Russian Bear had become a fun-loving, happily domesticated beast,” Twining attempted to rally the American public to remain staunch in the face of nuclear dangers. In his attitudes toward strategic bombing, for example, he ascribed opposition to “an instinctive moral objection to... the subjugation of civilian populations to the hazards of war” and t