10 and loaned it to the Army until they could find money with which to buy more aircraft.6 0 While the air power advocates that emerged in this period did little to proselytize their new faith, they became an important force advocating for air power in popular culture after the world emerged from the cataclysm of World War I. The Crusade Begins: The Interwar Years The Great War had done two things relevant to the public’s view of military strategy. First, the prolonged stalemate and slaughter of the trenches made a mockery of customary approaches to war. The image of Colonel Blimp became a widespread cultural symbol of what was seen as the bankruptcy of traditional strategies for land warfare. That this image was a simplistic reaction to a complex problem brought on by the evolution of warfare in the machine age is beside the point; many shapers of public opinion believed that the meatgrinder of trench warfare was now an inherent part of modem warfare and 44 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 56 --- that many generals were too hidebound to accept that old strategies were now obsolete. Secondly, the airplane became a significant, but immature part of war in the machine age. The airplane’s contribution in World War I was hardly conclusive. While the warplane was indispensable on land, and a great asset at sea, aviators achieved no significant, indisputable accomplishment other than assisting traditional forces in traditional efforts. Air warfare created exciting images in popular culture, such as the air ace, but it had accomplished too little in the way of concrete contributions to establish any particular strategy as the obvious direction of fixture air warfare. In popular imagination air power had accomplished enough that people knew it would certainly play a major role in future warfare, but not enough to firmly fix any one image, other than a romantic image, of