bility. The title, “The Thirty-Six Hour War,” of 1945 is more than coincidentally reminiscent of Stuart Chase’s 1929 article “The Two-Hour War.”5 8  Both articles are products of the exaggerated claims made for air power in their day. Such promises seemed not only plausible to many, they also seemed to have the ring of necessity, inevitability, even desirability. But such claims were invariably based on hypothetical situations and a caricatured foe who took no defensive action and who compliantly sunk into chaos with no messy details to complicate postwar scenarios. When applied to specific situations such as World War E Germany or the Cold War Soviet Union, frictions of war not only upset the too-neat scenarios upon which the predictions had been based, they also left the air power advocates who made the predictions looking foolish. Too 200 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 212 --- often such failures left the air power advocates looking around for someone to blame for the failure so as to protect the reputation of the air power cause. One exception to those who saw nuclear weapons as part of an air power revolution was Alexander de Seversky. In a 1946 Reader's Digest  article he had argued that the world-wide reaction to the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombings had grossly exaggerated the effectiveness of atomic bombs. The article brought down a storm of condemnation on de Seversky, and one might have wondered why he was swimming against the tide of even his fellow air power advocates who clearly shared, and helped perpetuate, the popular view of atomic devastation. The mystery became clear when his book Air Power: Key to Survival  was published in 1950. Essentially de Seversky objected to the notion of quick and easy victory through atomic bombing. He believed air power itself constituted a revolution in warfare, and that air power could, by itself, win the great w