eputation as much as American bombers that in Havemann’s opinion deters Soviet aggression.3 1 The interest in LeMay was so great that it even spawned articles detailing LeMay’s private life and the interest continued when he moved up to Chief of Staff of the Air Force in 1957. In that year, for example, LeMay joined Arthur Godfrey on an African safari that was filmed for Godfrey’s television show, and Life covered the event in their magazine.3 2 Life again related LeMay’s off-duty activities in 1961. His toughness was highlighted by 292 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 304 --- describing his penchant for judo and photographing him in action. His perfectionism came through various other interests, such as building radios, tying his own fishing flies, and loading his own shotgun ammunition. But the article also revealed a softer side of the head of the Air Force. He is shown training his pet dog and playing an organ, and both activities are described as avid interests.3 3 General interest magazines occasionally showcased other Air Force leaders, such as Nathan Twining and Thomas S. Power, but the coverage was not as extensive as that given to LeMay, for it seems that no other air leader sparked the public’s interest as much as did LeMay.3 4  He was certainly a colorful character who gave magazine writers plenty of material to work with when writing their stories, and judging by his encouragement of Lay and Bartlett in their movie ventures, it is clear that LeMay courted public support for SAC through popular culture. It seems, though, that there was something more driving the public fascination with LeMay, that it was a two-way proposition. Magazine editors and air power advocates seem to have sensed that, having put its faith in strategic nuclear bombing, the public needed a single person, a face, to associate with the image of strategic air power, one that would