g to ammunition dumps. The movie thus helped condition American audiences to accept the carefully crafted image of the 1930s and early 49 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 61 --- World War II years that city bombing was something other nations did while Americans carefully, and precisely, confined their bombing to legitimate military targets. The Dawn Patrol,  on the other hand, is noted for its depth of plot and depiction of the brutal reality of World War I aerial warfare. As with Wings  and H ell's Angels,  the film’s genesis and production involved men with flying backgrounds and service as World War I pilots. The initial story came from a short piece written by John Monk Saunders, who had played a central role in the development of Wings.  The film’s director and guiding spirit was Howard Hawks, who became one of Hollywood’s leading aviation filmmakers and who had flown with the U. S. Air Service in the war.7 4  The plot centers on Allied pilots and the impersonal slaughter of the one-sided war of attrition they faced in the 1915 phase when Germany had the Allies technologically outgunned. Unlike Wings and H ell’ s Angels,  the flying sequences are secondary to the plot. Did the movie’s popularity counteract the romantic and transcendent image of the fighter ace prevalent in popular imagination up to this point? No, and for several complex reasons. First, A ll Quiet on the Western Front  and several quick imitations had dissipated some of the “war is slaughter” shock value, and the plot portrays pilots as professionals who submit to their collective fate.7 5  In this latter theme the film is a precursor to such post-World War H films as Twelve O ’ clock High  and Command Decision.  Secondly, and more important, one must avoid making too much of simple characterizations of interwar America’s attitudes toward air power. Throughout the period American attitudes