es of his story. His testimony to the importance of SAC to America, for example, comes from the mouth of a B-52 maintenance master sergeant’s wife. When interviewed by Michener in the midst of a civilian evacuation of the base she tells him, “We’re at war, Mr. Michener, at war to prevent war. The rest of the nation doesn’t know it, but we are.”1 5  He follows a similar approach in describing the sacrifices made by the men who keep SAC running. He refers to SAC headquarters as “Ulcer Heaven,” and states that most ground and flight crews either are underweight, or have ulcers, piles, or back problems. He even points to an “appalling” divorce rate in SAC 285 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 297 --- before 1950 as further proof of the price its personnel pay to protect America, and details the steps SAC took to turn the divorce rate around as proof of SAC’s competence.1 6 The post-sputnik fears of Soviet missile attack brought another dimension to the SAC image. Writing for The Saturday Evening Post  in 1958, Clay Blair reassured the public that SAC’s retaliatory force would not be caught on the ground by a surprise missile barrage. In response to the Soviet missile threat SAC instituted plans to keep one third of their force in a combat configuration ready to takeoff in less than fifteen minutes and Blair, assessing these plans, states, “they do the job efficiently and effectively.” In fact, Blair’s depiction of SAC’s bombers make them appear far more capable and flexible than ICBMs. But while Blair foresees imminent defenses against inbound Soviet missiles he extolls the B-52's ability to defeat enemy radar and evade fighters, and states, “even in the missile age most of the bombers will get through to target and back again.” And in detailing future bomber advances planned by SAC, Blair falls into the pattern of excessive hyperbole. The B-70 is described as “breat