ike the Soviet Union to its knees with a swift and furious “air blitz.”5 6  Just as the public could be reassured with images of easy victory, though, the heightened expectation of the new lethality of air power could back-fire as well. In November 1945 Life magazine cited Arnold’s writings as the inspiration for its story “The Thirty-Six Hour War” in which a sudden atomic missile attack from an unnamed adversary brings America to its knees. So powerful was the image of near-instantaneous devastation from nuclear attack that one author, Russell V. Ritchey, envisioned a scenario where the 199 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 211 --- Soviets had pre-positioned thirty-six atomic bombs around key American cities and then demands immediate surrender. The story ends with the president presenting the ultimatum to his cabinet and asking the question that was the story’s title, “What Would You Do?”5 7 Some air power advocates would later back away from predictions of quick and easy victory, and they would later have to contend with heightened public fears when the Soviets developed their own atomic bomb, fears the air power advocates had themselves helped to cultivate. But air power advocates found it harder to erase public images of nuclear victory or defeat than it had been to create those images. The predictions of quick victory, though, point to a fallacy that had long lurked beneath the surface of the notion of an air power revolution. Running at least as far back as Douhet’s Command o f the Air,  air power advocates had been promising that air power could quickly defeat any nation, and they had enjoyed considerable success in awakening public expectations for such capability. The title, “The Thirty-Six Hour War,” of 1945 is more than coincidentally reminiscent of Stuart Chase’s 1929 article “The Two-Hour War.”5 8  Both articles are products of the exaggerated claim