could sense in this a repudiation of the glory of air power that was often a part of the air power advocates’ message but Taylor does not develop this theme. Instead Richardson repudiates the quest 328 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 340 --- for glory and finds that the real meaning in life is a personal affirmation of hope. The realization bursts upon him in the midst of combat as he struggles with his own fears. He discovers that only through hope for the future will he find meaning in life and he thus rediscovers his love for his wife. What we have, then, is a book that raises questions about air power and its effect on the human spirit but which pushes the point fitfully and never drives an anti-air power message to the point that would make it a true attack. The other novel dealing with air power published in 1956 was James Salter’s The Hunters.  Another psychological study, it revolves around a fighter pilot’s experiences in the Korean War. Salter had been a fighter pilot during the war and undoubtedly the novel reflects his perceptions of that experience. The fact that he originally published the novel anonymously indicates that he intended it to be something of an expose.1 2  The central character, Captain Cleve Saville, is in some respects an anti-hero in that he rejects the heroic image of the world in which the war has placed him, the world of fighter pilots in an F-86 group based in South Korea. Throughout the novel, though, as the reader learns about the fighter pilot world, its heroic image emerges as a pathological ideal of perverted and inverted values. By ultimately rejecting this heroic image, therefore, Saville actually turns out to be heroic. But Saville dies in the course of combat, having never achieved the highly sought status that defines the hero in the fighter world, the status of ace. All who do reach this status are grotesque caricat