uation often does not occur for many years after the fighting stops.2 3  That the same is true of World War I air power can be seen in the fact that the writings of Billy Mitchell and Giulio Douhet did not emerge until the 1920s. Secondly, actual accomplishments of air power in the war were so ambiguous that one could find enough “evidence” to support nearly any point of view.2 4 The appearance of the airplane after 1903 and of large scale air warfare after 1914, therefore, focused the trend in speculation about the nature of air power, but by and large the images still remained fanciful when compared with later realities. Utopianists still pointed to a shining new dawn ushered in by the warplane, while others still saw it as a new “secret weapon” that would save their nation from some imagined threat. After a long hiatus, the theme of warning of the potential threat of air war to society reemerged, and it too became a part of the airwar predictions of this period. The real change, though, came from three new cultural factors that involved a new image, a new voice in the air power debate, and a powerful new medium: the romantic air ace, the air power advocate, 28 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 40 --- and cinema. At the time, these new elements would have limited impact, but after the war all three would play a major factor in shaping the image of air power in popular culture. For many Americans, the news of the Wright Brothers’  flight or their first glimpse of an airplane in flight awakened feelings of awe heavily laden with religious and mystical symbolism. Joseph Com has stated that the notion of the airplane as a cultural and social redeemer was more powerful and widespread in America than elsewhere. He attributes this to two factors. First, Americans had long been prone to “technological messianism,” a vague but long-standing attitude that machines and te