ose images, though, was the air power debate carried out in print. The Hollywood figures whom we have discussed, unlike filmmakers of a later period, were not openly advocating any particular air power policy. After World War I, however, the air power advocates emerged as a vocal group dedicated to advancing the cause of greater American air power and sought to win the American public over to their cause through the medium of popular culture. In the wake of the Great War numerous people in Europe and America who were familiar with military flying began to articulate what they saw as the inherent potential of 51 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 63 --- using the airplane in warfare. There had been considerable speculation and prophecy in the past, but the interwar theorists presented something different. They based their predictions on experience, they thought they were objective, they tried to be systematic, but more importantly, they felt it essential to press their ideas on the people, governments, and military organizations of their countries. These prophets theorized about strategies of aerial warfare, but even more, they tried to fit their theories into an overall grand vision of warfare, what they came to call air power. The central vision o f these advocates was that armies and navies were powerless to stop the warplane, which therefore left an enemy’s real source of military might, its cities, people, and industries that supported the war effort, naked and defenseless in the face of air attack. By striking directly at the enemy’s means and will to fight, air power theorists felt they could bring cheap and easy victory.7 6 At the time this suggestion was in many ways a radical departure from standard military thinking. Traditional strategies in land warfare emphasized defeating the enemy army and capturing enemy territory, but did not specifically target t