the wartime and postwar popular culture crusade. To further their revolutionary cause, air power advocates had wedded air power to what was widely seen as a revolutionary weapon in its own right, the atomic bomb. Numerous air power advocates stressed that air power was the only or the best means of delivering nuclear weapons, and they created in popular imagination an image that linked the two inseparably. To many in the public nuclear weapons meant air power, and air power meant nuclear weapons, and both meant revolutionary destructive capability on a scale of which Douhet had never dreamed. At the same time, though, air power advocates perpetuated the mythology of the effectiveness of precision industrial bombing. Even de Seversky stressed the precision industrial bombing image. His thousands of atomic bombs would bring relatively quick victory by bombing vital Russian industries with such precision that the Russian people would not feel they had been targeted: “As precision in picking out and erasing selected strategic targets improves, the toll of life will be reduced. Mass destruction will cease to be mistaken for a strategy.” De Seversky backed the point by detailing at length why civilian casualties were counter-productive.6 0 202 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 214 --- The irony of the postwar image of precision nuclear bombing, besides the fact that atomic destruction was measured in square miles, is that SAC’s bombing did not measure up to the public rhetoric. Overall accuracy for 1949 went from 3,700 feet to 2,300, and the winner of that year’s bombing and navigation competition for B-36s won with an average score of 1,053 feet.6 1  This incongruity did not matter, though, for the popular culture campaign dealt largely in images, and the image of precision and the crippling effect of knocking out enemy industry was interwoven into images of the atomi