r member, and his Life magazine made air power articles a regular feature. Finally, Gardner Cowles, president of the Des Moines Register and Tribune,  was also president of Look  magazine which regularly ran air power features. There are indications that the support for air power at Look  went beyond Cowles. For example, a memo from Felix Jager attached to an advance copy of a 1947 article by Alexander de Seversky states that de Seversky had advocated long-range strategic bombing before 1940 and that only now are people recogizing his insight into “modem warfare.”4 7  None of this should lead one to believe that these magazines were wholy and exclusively devoted to advancing the cause of air power or that they favored the Air Force over the Army and the Navy. Virtually all of these m agazine s regularly ran articles on land and sea power, so much so that in 1949 H.H. Arnold complained to Ira Eaker that the Saturday Evening Post  ran a Navy story in every issue, and Eaker agreed, noting that, “[i]t is practically a Navy magazine.”4 8  What this does illustrate, though, is 163 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 175 --- that the heads of three of the most popular magazines in America had signed on to the Air Power League’s goal of getting the word about air power into the hands of every man, woman, and child in America, and these three magazines went a long way toward making that goal a reality in a consistent and effective manner throughout the period under study. Much the same could be said about two other general interest magazines popular with the American public, C ollier’ s  and the Reader’ s Digest.  The Collier's  legacy of air power support began with the son of the magazine’s founder, Robert J. Collier. Owner and long-time editor of the magazine, Collier was an avid flier, a friend of the Wright Brothers, and an early proponent of both aviation and air powe