ular culture the computer has its own group of advocates and enjoys something of the same “conventional wisdom” air power enjoyed in an earlier period. The gamut of advocacy runs from the hardcore computer “zealots” who seem to claim that computers will cure all the world’s ills, to those who see computers as an integral part of everyday life in the future and who urge “computer literacy” on everyone as a means of preparation for the future they envision. There are those who shrink back from computers, who point to dangers ahead if 9 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 21 --- we “go too far” with computers, or who doubt many of the claims made on behalf of the computer. Still, computer advocates have succeeded in convincing a wide segment of the general public that computers can bring great benefits, that computers are a necessary part of modem life, and that progressive, forward-thinking individuals should indeed become “computer literate.” In much the same way, air power advocates ran the gamut from hardcore zealots who made extravagant claims, such as Alexander De Seversky, to those who saw it as an important part of America’s future, such as the editors of C ollier's. In examining advocacy groups there is often a tendency to “round up the usual suspects,” to focus on individuals who might have a vested interest in the issue and then assume that the vested interest motivated their advocacy. Such an approach distorts any analysis of air power advocates and their popular culture crusade. Granted, some were leading figures in the Air Force, and in fact there appears to be no Air Force leader who advocated less air power or a restriction of its mission, but their advocacy stemmed from more than bureaucratic ambition. Certainly anyone in the Air Force who doubted the need for a bigger Air Force or who questioned air power’s capabilities would not get to a position of