strategic bombing is how Dennis succeeds in winning over the critics and doubters who appear in the story. Nearly everyone who is converted appears as a sensible individual throughout the work, and the rare individuals who do not come around to Dennis’  arguments appear from start to finish as boorish louts. Kane, for example, appears as an unsympathetic schemer who’s best days are long since past. He knows Dennis is right but surrenders to his own fears and fires Dennis for insisting on continuing the operation.8 6  In the midst of the prolonged confrontation a congressional committee appears, and one of its members, Representative Malcolm, is portrayed as a caricature of the loud-mouthed, offensive politician. He objects to the high casualties of the first two missions of Stitch and flatly rejects all explanations. He holds Dennis responsible for the casualties and badgers and abuses him to the point where, in the novel, Dennis knocks him unconscious. The other congressmen appear much more reasonable and willing to listen to Dennis’  explanations. Dennis eventually wins them over, and in the novel they force Malcolm to apologize to Dennis.8 7  The two most 215 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 227 --- sympathetic characters, though, are Brockhurst, a war correspondent, and Sergeant Evans, Dennis’  orderly. Initially Brockhurst considered Dennis a tyrannical butcher, and he intended to expose him as such in the press. He is one of the first to see the wisdom of Dennis’  efforts and spends most of the story marveling at the stupidity of Dennis’  critics.8 8 At first Evans, the cynical NCO, considers Dennis just another general, but he too is converted and in the end gives up a comfortable state-side assignment to follow Dennis to his next command in the Pacific.8 9  The impression this theme presents to the audience is that any intelligent, reasonable, progressiv