cause and the methods and media they used to convey that message. The list of individuals who advocated air power is a long and varied one and we have already met some of them in the interwar period. Some of the “old campaigners” carried their work over into the postwar period, but the wartime performance of air power and the rapid escalation of air power advocacy after the war brought many new figures into the arena. We will look briefly at some of the most prominent military and civilian air power advocates who tried to advance their cause through the media of popular culture. Along with a brief biographical sketch, especially the events and experiences which shaped their views toward air power, this chapter will 91 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 103 --- provide only an abbreviated synopsis of their thoughts; a closer analysis of their views, as expressed in their public works, will form the basis of later chapters. The list is admittedly subjective. Some included in the list may seem not to belong, while many may seem to be left off in error. So many people played a role in advancing the air power popular culture campaign that a full list would be very long indeed. Those presented here seem to be the most influencial and representative of the larger phenomenon. Three of the most prominent military figures, H.H. “Hap” Arnold, Carl “Tooey” Spaatz, and Ira Eaker began their writing activity during the interwar years and resumed that activity after the war ended. One important military figure, though, emerged only after the war brought him to prominence: Curtis E. LeMay. In considering military air power advocates we will look primarily at those who were career officers; several other figures served in the military before or during the war, and that military experience figured prominently in their crusading efforts in the postwar period, but although they often