ns of Command Decision.  On one side of the conflict are the critics of air power and strategic bombing. Pitted against them is “Brigadier General 212 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 224 --- Casey Dennis,” played in the movie by Clark Gable, who believes that without strategic bombing America will lose the war. The third element of conflict is Dennis’  superior, “Major General Kane,” who worries more about publicity and the institutional fortunes of the AAF and who realizes that critics will use heavy casualties as an excuse to kill strategic bombing and cut back the AAF. Haines uses this three-way conflict to narrow the focus down to the exact nature of the air power revolution. As with Twelve O 'clock High  the action takes place at a critical time in the evolution of the strategic bombing campaign. In this case, just as a bombing campaign is set to decide the fate of the war the Joint Chiefs are about to hold a meeting to reallocate resources for the entire war effort. For Kane this upcoming reallocation is critical, for chief among the AAF’s critics is the Navy, and as Haines states through one of his characters, admirals make up half of the Joint Chiefs and they do not believe strategic bombing can work.8 2  When Kane learns that Dennis has started the long-planned operation, bearing the leading code-name Stitch, for “a stitch in time,” on the eve of the reallocation meeting he orders Dennis to suspend the operation until after the meeting. Dennis argues that this will allow a rare stretch of good weather crucial to the operation’s success to go unexploited, and with winter coming on they will probably not get such a stretch of good weather again until after the German jets have turned the tide of battle. This sets the stage for a confrontation between the two that allows Haines to illustrate his notion of the true nature of air power. Kane recounts his ex