ions followed two general threads of logic. Some felt that the airplane not only lifted one physically, but also mentally and spiritually to a higher plane of reasoning and attitude. In this way the airplane would elevate people’s minds above the base motivations that led to war and would usher in feelings of international brotherhood and harmony. Reflecting in 1911 on what recent developments in aviation meant for the prospects of future war, the editors of The Independent  confidently predicted, “We believe [the airplane] will make for good, it will compact the world with a closer civilization. It creates propinquity, and propinquity begets love rather than hate.”2 7  Furthermore, when looking down on the earth from above people would notice that there were no borders and they would forget then- nationalistic passions. This sentiment was captured in verse by Rhoda Hero Dunn in “The Aeronauts,” published in 1909: ....And our hearts, Now islanded by little miles of grass, And tiny leagues of waving forest leaves Into dissenting nations, leap to meet A future wherein unfenced realms of air Have mingled all earth’s peoples into one And banished war forever from the world.2 8 The other strain of utopian expectation held that the airplane had made war so horrible that no one would dare contemplate it. In a sense, this is an early depiction of air power as a deterrent to war, and this notion too would resonate throughout the Twentieth 30 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 42 --- Century. After considering all the terrors that could (and have) become part of air warfare, a 1909 editorial in The Independent  concluded that: When war becomes so dangerous to those that take part in it, there will be increased unwillingness to engage in war....A small nation can afford no adequate navy, but it can on short notice equip a thousand airships. This tends to equalize the smaller