el, Armageddon,  depicts an Anglo-American alliance fighting for its survival against a Russian-led world coalition. The coalition’s strength lies in a vast naval armada, but the alliance is saved by the aluminum “air-ship” invented by an American “technological wizard” which bombs the Russian fleet into defeat. The victors establish Anglo-American-German global hegemony and this great new air power then 24 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 36 --- rescues humanity from the spiraling horror of war by making war too terrible to contemplate.1 6 Another motif which would also resonate into the Cold War era is the depiction of air power as salvation in a world of “good versus evil” or “enlightened versus benighted” external threats. In 1898 S. W. Odell, in The Last War; Or, the Triumph o f  the English Tongue,  depicts air power as one of the primary means by which Anglo-American progressivism defeats forever the forces of evil and reactionism led by, again, Russia.1 7 Often this sense of external threat was nothing more than racism, which points to a third motif. Across the spectrum of future-war literature one can see a growing acceptance of total war pitting entire civilizations in a fight-to-the-finish struggle for survival. In this context the airplane emerges as a weapon of total war and a means of mass extermination of the threatening “other.” In William Delisle Hay’s 1881 novel Three Hundred Years Hence  the white races have come to accept “[t]he stem logic of facts [that] proclaimed the Negro and the Chinaman below the level of the Caucasian, and incapacitated from advance towards his intellectual standard,” and that nature had placed the “Inferior Races...outside the pale of Humanity.” With cries of “Death to the Negro! Annihilation to the Chinaman!” the “Caucasian executioners of Destiny’s decree,” using airships called lucegenostats, fly over Asia and Afri