eproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 387 --- light, such as Tom Clancy’s novels, show air power serving in a crucial, but supporting role along side the Army and Navy. America’s fixation with air power after World War II was a passing phenomenon and its reoccurrence seems hard to imagine. The key ingredient in the cultural recipe that led to faith in air power - a society so fascinated with the sudden reality of human flight as to ascribe messianistic properties to the airplane - was a simplistic and innocent public consciousness that will never come again. Familiarity has not bred contempt toward the airplane, but it has bred nonchalance. Americans are so far removed from this naive frame of mind today that it seems hard to believe that people once expected salvation from a machine. Reading some of the exhortations of air power advocates from the late forties or the general interest magazine articles about SAC from the mid-fifties generates feelings of amusement today, and even some measure of embarrassment. Still, to understand the rise of air power after World War II to a level of dominance in America’s military structure, one must understand the cultural attachment to air power, how air power advocates reflected that attachment, and how they used it to build an air power empire based on strategic nuclear bombing. In a larger sense, though, the postwar air power phenomenon also illustrates the importance of images in shaping any society’s attitudes toward the military and toward warfare in general. Tom between conflicting emotions, fearing war but fearing attack, suspicious of militarism but venerating its heroes, every society has complex images of war and its own military structure that shape its attitudes toward military policy. Even the most authoritarian government cannot ignore these public attitudes completely. 376 Reproduced with permission of the copyrigh