rther reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 153 --- the Air Corps. In December 1942 Arnold transformed the newsletter into what he described to its new editor, James Straubel, as “A first-class, slick paper magazine - highly readable...with worldwide circulation.” This “slick paper magazine” continued until 1946 when the Air Force Association took over its publication. Recognizing the long continuity stretching back to 1917, the Association began its publication as Volume 29.1 5  Leading AFA figures spread the group’s message in speeches and radio broadcasts, particularly on special occasions such as Air Force Day, AFA conventions, and at premieres of air power movies. On Air Force Day, 1  August 1947, for example Jack Warner, a member of the Association’s board of directors and head of Warner Brothers Studio, hosted a radio program featuring such other Hollywood dignitaries as James Stewart and Ronald Reagan. Hosting premieres of such movies as Command Decision  and Strategic Air Command brought the AFA additional opportunities to share its message. These occasions were made into gala affairs attended by military, entertainment, and business dignitaries and were frequently covered on radio and television. At the premiere of Command Decision, for example, the Association presented a “citation of honor” to the entire film industry for its support of air power. At the premiere of Strategic Air Command  James Stewart was similarly honored with a special medal from the AFA, and Arthur Godfrey interviewed many of the attending celebraties for his popular television show. This recognition of the impact popular culture could have on winning support for air power is further illustrated by the group’s Arts and Letters award, which was first given in 1948 to William Wister Haines author of the play and novel Command Decision}6 142 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  F