omise of air power in World War n. The public’s support for air power remained strong after World War n, as is dramatically illustrated by a poll conducted during the last months of the war by The Saturday Evening Post.  When asked which of the three services they felt was most important to national defense 56.3% stated the air force was, while 21.8% said the Navy, and 13.6% favored the Army.1 4 9  This faith in air power was built in large measure by the twin traditions of bombing that became such potent public images and by public perception of what air power had accomplished during the war. As air power advocates strove to maintain and increase that public support in the postwar era they continued the tradition of appealing to the public through popular culture, and they continued to stress the old promises of national salvation through air power. In doing so, they relied heavily on their faith in strategic bombing as progressive and efficient, the ACTS tradition, and its more appealing peacetime images, but the reality of nuclear weapons and the emerging Soviet threat in the Cold War meant that the tradition of Douhet would become an inevitable part of American air power. Trying to reconcile both traditions in a peacetime popular culture crusade forced the air power advocates to shape some awkward and contradictory images for the popular imagination. For awhile they were remarkably successful despite the contradictions, but ultimately the contradictions brought air power advocates frustration, and in the end, failure. 78 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 90 --- 1. For fin  de siecle  cultural trends in the context of technology and war see, for example, Stephen Kern, The Culture o f Time and Space, 1880-1918  (Cambridge, Mass, Harvard University Press, 1983) and Roland N. Stromberg, Redemption By War  (Lawrence: Regents Press of Kansas, 1982), respectively. F