onary air power. Capitalizing on public support, air power advocates used speeches, radio addresses, magazine articles, novels, and movies in the late forties to spread their notions that air power had revolutionized warfare as well as human affairs. Initially pointing to an air power threat that could come from any industrialized nation, air power advocates later identified the Soviet Union as a grave threat against which only air power could prevail. Central to the air power advocates’  vision was strategic nuclear bombing. Despite interservice attacks on the reliance on nuclear air power, and international events that ii Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 6 --- prompted calls for greater air defense and tactical air power, air power advocates kept strategic nuclear bombing as the center-piece of air power doctrine and the Strategic Air Command became the predominant force in national defense throughout the fifties. Air power advocates used popular culture to build public support for this predominance and through much of the fifties maintained a steady barrage of movies and magazine articles that presented SAC as the nation’s salvation. In the late fifties, though, fading fascination with aviation and growing fear of nuclear war ended the public’s simplistic faith in air power, and an escalating barrage of anti-air power novels and movies ended the air power advocates’  popular culture crusade. Ul Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 7 --- This work is dedicated to the three people who worked almost as hard on it as I did Sandra Kay Call, my wife Jessica Ashley Call, my daughter Nathaniel Charles Call, my son iv Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 8 --- ACKNOWL