call_people.pdf --- Page 9 --- extra mile in identifying and locating material, and his help allowed me to make advanced arrangements so that my research in Washington would be most productive. Here at Ohio State I wish to thank all the professors who provided help and advice, especially the members of my dissertation committee. I also owe a big debt of thanks to the people of the inter-library loan office. The nature of this study meant many requests for obscure articles and pamphlets, and many people at inter-library loan went above and beyond the call of duty in tracking down my numerous requests. In fact, I spent so much time at their window that before long they came to recognize me on sight. Numerous fellow graduate students provided comments and patiently listened as I bounced my ideas off them. While the list is far too long for inclusion, I wish specifically to mention Kelly Jordan and Bill Roberts, and thank them for their thoughtful input. Both David Mets and Harry Borowski graciously answered innumerable questions and gave me their thoughts on the general topic of my research, and I am deeply appreciative of their kindness. Last, but certainly not least, I wish to thank my family. I have been blessed with a large cheering section of parents, siblings, aunts and uncles, cousins, and in-laws, all of whom kept up a steady stream of encouragement and best wishes that meant more to me than words can convey. My greatest strength, though, was my wife and kids who graciously accepted too much time with Dad closeted away. They supported me even if they did not understand my curious interest in this subject, and I only hope I can repay them in kind for their constant faith and affection. vi Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 10 --- VITA 31 May 1956 .................................... Bora - Portland, Maine 1988 ..................................................