y on land and sea is predicated.” While he talked about the importance of destroying enemy aircraft in the factory or in the air, his thinking about the best way to use air power to help front line troops was best revealed when he stated, “The same bomb that knocks out one mortar on 259 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 271 --- the battlefield can knock out a convoy of ten mortars fifty miles behind the front. Five hundred miles farther back that same bomb can blow up a railroad engine or a bridge, preventing the arrival of 100 mortars in the battle area.”5 7 Air power advocates even connected the image of strategic bombing with that of air interdiction’s magnified benefits to the ground war. Harold H. Martin, in The Saturday Evening Post,  described a B-29 bombing raid against North Korean rail lines carrying supplies to Communist forces. In describing the target’s significance Martin quotes the group’s commander during the preflight briefing: Through it passes the main rail line from the north. It’s the eastern gateway to Korea from Russia and Manchuria. The tanks that have been playing the devil with our troops in South Korea came through...there. The munitions from the nitrate plant at Konan to the north pass through there. There’s an oil refinery there that keeps the tanks and the vehicles of the Reds on the move.... Between us, we’ll put about 800,000 pounds of TNT on a target that’s roughly 3000 feet long and 2000 feet wide. If we do our jobs right. That ought to be enough. The author takes the reader through the mission in a style reminiscent of a World War II bombing mission. Rather than emphasizing bombers destroying the enemy’s industrial heart, though, Martin places the mission in the context of a massive Air Force - Navy interdiction campaign to save the U.N. position by starving the enemy of supplies.5 8 A more colorful effort, literally and figurat