Safe  written in 1962 by two political science professors, Eugene Burdick and Harvey Wheeler. Published the same month of the Cuban Missile Crisis, the novel benefited from contemporary fears of nuclear war. It became not only a best-seller, selling over two million copies, it also was the only nuclear-related novel to make the top ten list of best-sellers for a given year. The novel remained on the New York Times  best-sellers list for 31 weeks, and was chosen as a Book-of-the-Month selection. In another reflection that changed attitudes toward air power were becoming more widespread, Fail-Safe  was serialized by a magazine that had done so much to lionize SAC throughout the fifties, The Saturday Evening Post .4 7  The plot centered on SAC’s Positive Control system, the so-called ‘ Tail Safe” system, that relays orders for nuclear bombers to attack the Soviet Union. In the novel the system culminates in a “Black Box” in the bomber’s cockpit. After the bombers are launched a light is supposed to illuminate indicating to the crew that they are to strike their targets. Because of a faulty condenser in a ‘Tail-Safe Activating Mechanism” at SAC headquarters an attack indication is sent to six bombers, one of which reaches and bombs Moscow. To atone for the disaster and avert a Soviet counter-attack the President, a thinly-veiled representation of John F. Kennedy, orders a SAC bomber to bomb New York City.4 8 349 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 361 --- This is not a story like On the Beach  where air power is only tangentially implicated in the disaster. For Burdick and Wheeler airmen are the disaster. They have been entrusted with machines of infinite destruction and they have entrusted machines with determining when to unleash that destruction. More important, though, the airmen have themselves become machines, unthinking, unfeeling, incapable of understanding any