during World War I was the cult of the air ace.4 3  In the face of protracted, dehumanizing stalemate, the image of the “knight of the air” served as a public tonic providing something, if in reality very little, for the masses to cheer about. Significantly, the greatest force shaping the cult of the fighter ace was journalism of both the respected and pulp varieties.4 4  Several factors help explain this phenomenon in the popular culture of air power, for example, the need for victors in the midst of stalemate and the longing for a heroic face in a war characterized by depersonalizing technology. But no explanation is complete without considering the long history of romanticizing flight and the more recent technological messianism attached to the airplane. Europeans may not have expected aerial salvation to the extent Americans did, but the universal hero-worship of the ace found in all belligerent nations hints that even Europeans willingly accepted images of superhuman exploits in the air. Americans cleaved unto the air ace with the same enthusiasm as Europeans, and this romanticization of air war heroes helped to fix the image of the airplane’s messianic potential onto the image of air power. In the eyes of many, the warplane meant salvation from the all-too-apparent evils of modem warfare. As Com observes, “Americans expressed revulsion at the introduction of new weapons such as machine guns, tanks, 38 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 50 --- poison gas, and submarines - but not at airplanes.”4 5  And no image conveyed the romantic promise of air power to average Americans more than the icon of the fighter ace. Air warfare was seen as the last vestige of chivalric warfare where individual tests of skill and courage epitomized the harmonious melding of man and machine. The enduring image was captured by Eddie Rickenbacker, America’s top air ace, in his 1967 a