ission he has come to associate the sounds of exploding bombs with the end of civilization. By the time of this great Schweinfurt raid Boman’s twin crises, his 342 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 354 --- new understanding of Marrow and revulsion with bombing, have joined in his mind as one. “I had a despairing view of the world and of what men were making of it.... There would never be peace so long as there were men with Marrow’s taint.”3 8 The movie version of The War Lover  came out in 1962 and by this time the cultural climate was more open to assaults on the image of air power but still the movie studio held back somewhat. The film version was not altered as dramatically from its literary original as was The Hunters,  but it lost much of Hersey’s anti-air power tone. For example, the co-pilot, renamed Bolland in the film, does not struggle with the ethics of bombing. The image of bombing is also transformed from the tradition of Douhet found in the novel, to the tradition of ACTS as when a strike photo reveals that one squadron bombing through broken overcast scored ten direct hits on the targeted submarine pens. Even Twelve O 'clock High  did not claim bombing was that accurate. The movie is mildly anti-war and by extension anti-air power, but the message is confined to the lone misfit who loves killing too much, in this case the psychotic pilot, who in the movie is named Rickson. Daphne quickly sees that Rickson loves war like her former lover, who is said to have been a paratrooper, not an RAF pilot, but she does not suggest that he is part of a larger force that perpetuates wars. Everyone knows Rickson should be grounded, including Rickson’s superiors, who appear competent and dedicated, but they reply with resignation that he’s a great pilot who gets the job done and that wars need a few individuals who are willing to kill. In the end the crew is luck