t involves a base armed with both B-52s and ICBMs that has just failed an operational readiness inspection. In the wake of this failure the wing commander is fired and Colonel Caldwell, played by Hudson, is sent to whip the base into shape for a repeat inspection in the near future. In searching for weaknesses Caldwell finds several people who do not live up to SAC’s demanding standards. One such case is the base commander, an old pilot who excelled in the SAC of pre-Sputnik days but who has had trouble adjusting to the new SAC of missiles and the need to launch all aircraft within 15 minutes of missile launch warning. The stress of the new high pressure SAC has driven him to excessive drinking. Another problem is the vice wing commander, Caldwell’s best friend, who refuses to make the hard decisions that SAC’s mission demands of all its commanders. Caldwell, who has no problem making the hard decisions regardless of personal feelings, fires both commanders and drives the rest of the base’s personnel so hard morale begins to slip.5 2 Complicating the plot and accentuating the pressure on Caldwell is the fact that his new wife does not understand why he needs to be so hard. Other wives come to her with complaints about what Caldwell’s training and alert schedule are doing to their family lives but Caldwell turns a deaf ear to her entreaties to relax the pressure. She befriends the Base Commander’s wife and is thus shocked to find out that her husband has fired him, 305 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 317 --- and when the former base commander attempts suicide Caldwell’s wife blames her husband. Thinking that the high pressure is unnecessary, she feels she is seeing a side to him she never knew existed and plans to leave him. Before she leaves the reinspection team arrives. Instantly all the morale problems are forgotten as the entire base leaps into action perfo