ic warfare where individual tests of skill and courage epitomized the harmonious melding of man and machine. The enduring image was captured by Eddie Rickenbacker, America’s top air ace, in his 1967 autobiography: Frequently two pilots of equal skill would spend an hour or more fencing in the sky, each seeking to obtain the superior position over the other. When one or both ran low on gas, they would simply give each other a wave and fly back to then- respective aerodromes.4 6 The reality of aerial warfare in the Great War was quite different from the mythology. By the end of the war it had become an impersonal war of mass and attrition like that on the ground. But that mattered little to the depiction in popular culture, for the image became the reality despite all evidence to the contrary. The image of the fighter ace became such a powerful and durable representation of air power in part because of the appearance of a new and potent force in popular culture, cinema. There is an irony in the persistence after World War I of the myth of the lone fighter ace dueling in the skies of America’s popular imagination. For fifty years following the end of the Great War American air power increasingly focused on strategic bombing. One reason the fighter ace image remained an icon of aerial warfare is that before and during the Great War the infant film industry borrowed on the lone hero of prewar fantasy and the wartime ace when creating its stock image for aviation and air war films. The stock image was formed early, and once it took shape it was perpetuated as a standard plot motif as the film industry embarked on a long series of films over the ensuing 39 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 51 --- decades.4 7  More important for this survey, though, is the fact that many of these films embodied the messianic potential of aviation in general and air power in particular, f