point Marrow says of a bomb run gone bad, “I didn’t care where the f— [sic] we dropped those bombs as long as it was on a city. You can’t win a war being squeamish.... You have to kill somebody T 3 2 The character of Boman serves as an example to the American public as he slowly comes to realize Marrow’s true nature. Through him Hersey hopes to enlighten the public about the real character of air power and how they should respond to it. At first Boman, like the popular imagination’s response to aviation, idolized Marrow and put great trust in him to get the whole crew safely through their tour. Slowly, though, Boman comes to realize that Marrow’s skill and bravado are just a facade, he is an empty shell and his love of war and thirst for destruction threatens to get them all killed. More important, Boman comes to realize that Marrow threatens to squash all humanity, all that is good in Boman’s spirit.3 3  Helping him toward this realization are two supporting characters who are the first to figure out what Marrow really is. The first character is Lieutenant Lynch, an intellectual who represents the rational response to air power. So much of the appeal of air power had been rational, it seemed to make sense that if bombs were dropped on key enemy industries it had to have a magnified effect on their warfighting capabilities. Lynch on several occasions indicates that, in his 340 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 352 --- view, such thinking is only superficially efficient, that beneath the surface it is barbaric. On one occasion, for example, after explaining to Boman the superficiality of Marrow’s attitude toward war, Boman asks what brought up that observation seemingly out of the blue, and Lynch replies: it strikes me that in this century something awful has been let loose among the so- called civilized peoples, something primitive and barbaric.... If I can do my