pular imagination air power had accomplished enough that people knew it would certainly play a major role in future warfare, but not enough to firmly fix any one image, other than a romantic image, of what that role would be. The ground had been prepared for prolonged debate in popular culture over the future direction of air power, and the American public proved to be a fertile field for the fantastic claims made for air power’s potential. Even without the advocacy work of its partisans, air power would have enjoyed some measure of public support. The interwar years were the high point of America’s romance with aviation,6 1  and thus all forms of flying generated public enthusiasm and often enhanced the airplane’s technological messianic image. Barnstormers crisscrossed the nation bringing the airplane to the hinterlands and sparking grassroots excitement and still more images of the airplane’s transcendent powers. Charles Lindbergh recounts one episode during his barnstorming days in 1923 when a Mississippi woman asked him how much he would charge to take her to heaven and leave her there.6 2  Air races and air 45 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 57 --- shows sprang up in numerous cities and towns, but even more important were the unofficial races for records of higher, faster, and farther flights. Civilian and military pilots competed side-by-side for records, money, and fame, and with each new record the airplane seemed to give further testimony that old limitations, continents, oceans, even time itself; had been swept away by the all-conquering airplane. The most powerful image of public response to aviation, though, is the reaction to Charles Lindbergh’s transatlantic flight. While numerous aviators became popular public figures, the public outpouring prompted by Lindbergh’s feat illustrates the extent to which aviation was connected to emancipation and se