gelove,  both of whom threatened to plunge the world into a nuclear holocaust. The importance of the popular culture air power crusade is not just what each individual air power enthusiast said or believed; rather, the importance is in the collective context formed in American culture - that there once was a time when many people, military and civilian, shapers of popular culture and average citizens, firmly believed that air power was not only the shape of the future, but that it carried the promise of a better tomorrow. This context contributed to American society turning to air power for a sense of security through much of the fifties and to America making air power the centerpiece of its defense policy. The fact that at the same time air power was defined and epitomized by LeMay’s Strategic Air Command and the threat of nuclear devastation is a stark indicator that popular passions can move in mysterious ways. Only later did the public come to see that, far from offering utopian deliverance, air power actually threatened to be the harbinger of tragedy on an epic scale. This may have been a cruel necessity the democratic West felt constrained to rely on, but for Americans to see it as anything but a cruel necessity was, for a time, an act of mass self-delusion. How this self-delusion came about is the subject of this study. 14 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 26 --- 1. Joseph J. Corn, The W inged G ospel: A m erica's Rom ance With A viation, 1900-1950 (New York: Oxford University Press, 1983); for another view of America’s response to aviation see Michael Paris, From the W right B rothers to Top Gun: A viation, N ationalism and P opular C inem a  (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 1995) particularly 1  O S- 14. Corn’s pioneer work inspired similar studies of aviation’s impact on popular culture in other industrialized nations. See, for example, Peter F