cking a Japanese fleet and drops three salvos of bombs sinking one tanker, 71 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 83 --- one transport, one destroyer, and an aircraft carrier while shooting down three more Japanese fighters.1 3 3  In the film version the other aircraft decimate the enemy fleet, and nearly every bomb dropped scores a direct hit. The film’s final scene, set later in the war, depicts the crew as part of the out-numbered “hardy band” who established the tradition of heroism, technological superiority, and operational excellence being followed by the AAF’s million-man air force.1 3 4  The message to the public in 1943 was clear: the performance of that early crew became the standard upheld by all AAF crews around the world. This was the image the AAF wished to convey to the American public, but theirs was not the only voice preaching air power through the medium of popular culture. Another major effort to popularize air power during the war was the campaign waged by Alexander P. de Seversky who reiterated much of the technological excellence and operational efficiency messages, but who also raised dichotomous images quite out of keeping with those stressed by the AAF. Bom in Russia, de Seversky grew up around airplanes and became an ace and a war hero flying for the Tsarist Navy during World War I. After the Bolshevik revolution he emigrated to America, where during the interwar years his skill as an aeronautical engineer and aircraft designer led him to found the Seversky Aircraft Corporation in 1931, but de Seversky’s poor managerial skills led to his ouster in 1939 and the firm became Republic Aviation.1 3 5  De Seversky’s greatest interest, though, was in popularizing air power. In 1921 he met Billy Mitchell and soon became one of his disciples. By the outbreak of World War II de Seversky had become a prolific author of numerous articles and radio b