e the pale of Humanity.” With cries of “Death to the Negro! Annihilation to the Chinaman!” the “Caucasian executioners of Destiny’s decree,” using airships called lucegenostats, fly over Asia and Africa showering the land with “a rain of death to every breathing thing, a rain that exterminates the hopeless race” causing the “destruction of a thousand millions of beings who once were held to be the equals of intellectual men.”1 8 One of the few works before 1903 warning of the horrors of air war was a 1883 satirical comedy by Albert Robida. Appearing in the French periodical La Caricature, La 25 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 37 --- Guerre ctu vingtieme siecle  (The War of the Twentieth Century) presents a warning more about human folly than the terror of death from the skies. In text and illustration his message seems to be that if humans are foolish enough to continue in their present direction, future war will include such horrors as submarines, aerial bombardment, and germ warfare.1 9  Robida’s work had little or no impact outside France, and there appears to be little of the same vein throughout this period. After 1903 others sensed the danger of air warfare, and the chorus of voices prophesying doom grew throughout the Twentieth Century, but one is tempted to ask why, in the decades leading up to the dawn of flight, no one shared the concern voiced by Samuel Johnson so long ago? Laurence Goldstein has pointed out that throughout the ages, divine and demonic attributes have always coexisted in the mythology and literature of flight.2 0  Why should the sudden proliferation of air war speculation on the eve of the “air age” be of such an uncharacteristically positive nature? Undoubtedly the rampant nationalism and romanticization of war during this period helps explain the overwhelmingly positive image of air power.2 1  But negative images reappeared between