tide. Simply stated, the prophets of air power believed the airplane had revolutionized warfare. They often considered armies and navies obsolete, not only because were they too vulnerable to air power, but also because they were incapable of decisive action. Air power, its proponents claimed, could overleap all defenses and strike at the defenseless heart of the enemy nation. Such a blow would be impossible to stop and would quickly paralyze the enemy society, thus delivering the world from the horrors of prolonged warfare by bringing quick, relatively painless victory. Air power proponents’  dreams of air power revolution and the American public’s fascination with air power are both products of those same yearnings for transcendence in the spirit of Western society that awakened fantastic expectations for aviation in general. 3 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 15 --- Manifestations of transcendental longings have frequently appeared throughout Western and American history, and their peculiar characteristics reflect the deep and abiding influence of Christianity on Western culture. It is not surprising, therefore, that faith in such ethereal notions as Reason, Liberty, or Democracy have often assumed ecclesiastical trappings and prompt some to talk of the existence of “civil religions.”2  While air power was never associated with any form of theology and its adherents never organized into any formal “church,” manifestations of faith in the transcendental properties of air power and attempts to proselytize that faith are reminiscent of religious devotion, and as such constitute something of a civil religion. This is especially true of the most extreme claims made for air power. Like Reason or Liberty, air power was somehow going to lift the human condition to some higher plane of consciousness. For most people, though, the driving force behind faith in air power