ucial episode where Marrow tried to seduce her she says, I understood, then. It was from [the RAF pilot] that I understood. I said, “I know all about you.... That feeling when the plane shudders because the bombs are falling out.... The feeling you have - you have that stirring down there, don’t you Major? - when you start the bombing run.” Then speaking of men like Marrow and her RAF pilot she tells Boman, I think we ought to worry...more about what’s going to come of those who enjoy [war] too much. They’re going to inflict their curse on the rest of us in peacetime. They’re going to pass it on to their children. We’ll have other wars.... I don’t know what we can do about these men, how you can educate this thing out of them, or stamp it out, or heal it out - or whether you can get rid of it at all.3 6 Boman’s growing understanding of Marrow’s true nature imparted to him by Lynch and Daphne changes his attitude toward flying and air power. At first he had loved flying and yearned to be, like Marrow, the perfect pilot. He even subscribed to the pilot mystique: “We had the illusion that between aviators there was a mysterious bond, that we were sharers of a secret.... It was much later, with Daphne’s help, that I realized that... his dream in the sky and mine were far apart in kind.”3 7  Concurrent with his awakening understanding of Marrow is his growing disillusionment with bombing. Early in the war he had “thought of the enemy as a pickle barrel,” but the more he learns about the realities of bombing the more disturbed he gets. He starts having nightmares about his victims below, “a crowd of innocents with upturned Picasso faces,” where he sees himself in the crowd as one of the victims and at the same time in the sky as one of the perpetrators. By his twenty-fourth mission he has come to associate the sounds of exploding bombs with the end of civilization. By the time of this great Schweinfurt raid Boman’s twin crises, his 342 Reproduced with permission of the co