CANIFF One of the more curious chapters in the popular culture campaign for air power is the part played by Milton A. CanifF, the creator of the popular Steve Canyon  comic strip. 117 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 129 --- Bom in 1907 in Hillsboro, Ohio, Caniff graduated from Ohio State University in 1930 and began his career as a cartoonist with several newspapers before launching his first hit comic strip Terry and the Pirates  in 1934.6 ®  Caniff continued with the strip until 1946 when he left the syndicate which owned the copyright for Terry and the Pirates  so that he could launch his own strip - Steve Canyon.  The hero of the new strip was an Air Force pilot and was built around his many adventures as he was sent by the Air Force to trouble spots around the world. This comic strip inspired a television series by the same name that ran for one year starting in September 1958, and Caniff acted as script and story consultant for the series.6 9 Caniff s work shows an early and prolonged interest in air power. In Terry and the Pirates  Terry joins the AAF during World War n, and in Steve Canyon  Caniff continually weaves contemporary air power themes and concerns into the plot. In 1954, for example, Canyon is sent to command an Air Defense Command fighter-interceptor squadron in Alaska. Caniff uses this plot line to repeatedly emphasize the importance of ADC’s Alaskan bases as the first line of defense against a Soviet bomber attack that he felt could come at any time.7 0  Throughout his career Caniff also made many friends in the Air Force, some of whom he used as the basis of characters in his strips.7 1  While Caniff clearly favored air power and worked for its advancement, he also paid tribute to the sacrifices of military members of all the services in features that ran on special occasions such as Armed Forces Day and Christmas. His interest in air pow