ts magazine as the group’s main outreach for it was advertising revenues, mostly from industrial sources, that kept the Association solvent. After a rough start financially, the magazine soon recovered, especially after the start of the Korean War. By 1952 143 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 155 --- “advertising income was running far ahead of membership income.” This financial imbalance continued throughout the Fifties and Sixties.1 9 Another category of membership brought industries into a closer relationship with the Association: Industrial Associate membership. Started in 1951 as a way to streamline industrial sponsorship of AFA special events such as annual conventions, the fee for this category of membership started out at $350 for small firms and $450 for large ones. By 1954 there were 108 industrial associates and by 1960 the figure was up to 379. The AFA, though, soon became a conduit for contact between the Air Force and industry. In 1954, for example, the Association set up a series of Command Conferences where Air Force, airline, government, industrial, and educational leaders briefed over 2300 senior corporate executives who attended the four conferences that year on various aspects of military and industrial needs. Again in 1957 the AFA held an Industrial Associate Day during their annual convention in Washington, D.C. where industry executives recieved briefings on such issues as government procurement and logistics.2 0 None of this should lead to the conclusion that the Air Force Association did not take part in the campaign to convert average Americans to the cause of air power. While its membership troubles cast doubts on the effectiveness of its efforts, the Association was at least making some efforts, and undoubtedly they yeilded results in many locations. Likewise, one should not minimize the significance of the Association’s magazine, whi