f mind. Generally anyone, civilian or military, who envisioned great potential for the warplane and espoused the cause of advancing that potential can be considered an air power advocate. Many different kinds of people found themselves drawn to air power. Obviously one group was military pilots in both the Army and the 41 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 53 --- Navy. Still another was aircraft industry leaders. Both these groups have been charged with serving self-interests in their support of air power, but as we shall see, while this charge may too often be true it is even more often true that these individuals, judging by their words and deeds, wholeheartedly believed in the cause they espoused.5 5  Perhaps the most intriguing group is the largest, the hodge-podge of writers, journalists, editors, publishers, actors, directors, producers, in short, people in powerful positions to shape public opinion through their work in popular culture. What makes this group so fascinating is that they could gain no obvious personal advantage by embracing the cause of air power. They supported air power because they believed in it. $ Air power advocates often held conflicting views, for there was no set agenda or doctrine. To most advocates air power was more than a concept, it was a social force much the same as the most esoteric depictions of sea power; some even affected the habit of capitalizing the term, as Air Power, just as today some insist it be written as one word. Often ardently nationalistic, air power advocates still frequently espoused multinationalist visions of the benefits of aviation. For in a general sense, air power meant to its adherents the ability to do whatever the nation wanted to do in the air; as such it included both military and civilian aviation, and advances in one realm were seen as advances for the whole. In detailing “the winged gospel” Jos