t Line.... But if we wait... we’ll be waiting for the Germans to put a roof on the continent, ...to confront our armies on D-Day at the Channel with an air force that’s already whipped us. I’m not trying to tell you that Operation Stitch will win the war. But no battle, anywhere in this war, has been won without aerial supremacy. Operation Stitch is the price of that.8 4 Command Decision  even fits the strategic bombing campaign’s high casualty rate into the context of the air power revolution. Whereas Twelve O 'clock High  treats casualties as a price of combat which can be reduced through good leadership, morale, and tactics, Command Decision  treats the high casualty rate as a relatively small price to pay to avoid even higher casualties on the ground. In a scene near the end of both the play and the movie General Dennis’  replacement asks the advice of his intelligence officer, 214 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 226 --- an old World War I artillery “retread.” The major tells the general that if the German jet factories are not destroyed his (the major’s) son in the infantry, and all the other infantry troops, will have to go up against the jets when they invade Europe. When the general asks what the major would do if his son was in one of their B-17s the major replies that he hopes he would still send the mission against the jet factories. The impression conveyed to the audience is that air power dictates the level of lethality in ground combat. Either the bombers suffer a relatively smaller number of casualties in the air or the ground forces will suffer greater casualties at the hands of superior German air power.8 5 One key element of Haines’  depiction of strategic bombing is how Dennis succeeds in winning over the critics and doubters who appear in the story. Nearly everyone who is converted appears as a sensible individual throughout the work, and th