his sense of the airplane’s radical potential, found in varying degrees among members of the general public, was a crucial precursor to the rise of American air power, for it prepared many to accept the claims made for aviation by air power advocates. The image of the fighter ace in post-World War I remembrance, especially in the hands of Hollywood, also helped to romanticize the image of air power. The gulf between war as it was portrayed in such works as Erich Maria Remarque’s A ll Quiet on the Western Front  and Robert Graves’  Goodbye To A ll That,  and the war described in the such movies as Wings, H ell's Angels,  and The Dawn Patrol,  is so great that one wonders if all these works came from the same conflict. This discrepancy has gone little noticed. As Laurence Goldstein has observed, the great critics of World War I literature, most notably Paul Fussell, have all completely ignored literature on the air war.6 5  After the war the most potent force perpetuating the romance of aerial warfare was cinema. For several years after the war America was tired of war themes. Few books on World War I appeared, and what few war movies were made did poorly at the box office. But by the mid-twenties war themes reemerged in popular culture.6 6  Michael Paris identifies some thirty movies from this period featuring World War I flying, many of which, significantly, came from a small group of aviation enthusiasts in Hollywood.6 7 47 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 59 --- The most important of these, Wings,  which in 1929 won the first ever Academy Award for best picture, is a good example of the Hollywood connection with aviation and air power. The director, William Wellman, a relative unknown at the time, was chosen because he had flown with the Lafayette Flying Corps; the movie was the brainchild of John Monk Saunders, who had flown for the U. S. Army during the war.