r Force’s lack of emphasis on air defense and continued to insist that a system could be developed that worked better than the dire predictions of people like Vandenberg. One such person was Vannevar Bush, former Vice President of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development during World War n. While Bush did not discount the role of strategic nuclear bombing entirely, he saw it as part of an over-all balanced force. More important, he foresaw potential for effective new weapons in stopping enemy bombers. In a November 1949 Life article he predicted that developments in jet interceptors and guided missiles would inevitably give the defense an advantage over bombers. Little more than a year later he repeated much the same message in Reader's Digest  and stated that advances in radar, missiles, and jet interceptors “may make it increasingly impractical to penetrate to prime targets.” Bush urged that the strategic bombing forces learn to defeat such systems if they were to have any hope of penetrating Soviet defenses. And in terms of an American air defense system based on such innovations he stated “We should not let anything stand in the way of bringing it to full fruition at an early date.”3 9 Two of the harshest critics of the Air Force’s air defense measures, though, were the Alsop brothers, Joseph and Stewart, who together served as long-time defense correspondents for the New York Herald Tribune.  In 1953 they learned of the Lincoln Project, a study group formed by MIT to examine the air defense problem for the Air Force. Air Force leaders felt the group’s work confirmed their belief that there would be 250 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 262 --- no affordable new or dramatic improvements in air defense in the foreseeable future, but the Alsops claimed the Air Force was turning a blind eye to th