orale problem threatens to lose the war for America, according to the authors, is that the 918th’s impending collapse comes early in the war, in the Fall of 1942, when many military leaders in America and Britain are critical of AAF theories on strategic bombing. Just when the AAF is under great pressure to get results quickly, when critics will use any excuse to end the effort to prove the daylight precision bombing theory, one of the few groups operating in England seems about to fold.7 3 The movie does not go into such specific detail, but it does make the same point and it does so in the powerful visual imagery that made it the tenth most popular movie of 1950. The movie also attached the aura of a major star like Gregory Peck to the message. The film’s production team included four figures sympathetic to the air power cause. Beime Lay and Sy Bartlett wrote the screenplay, producer Darryl F. Zanuck had made 208 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 220 --- Winged Victory  during the war and was a charter member of the Air Power League, while the director, Henry King, was a noted pilot and an AAF veteran of World War II.7 4  The movie was dedicated to the men who made daylight precision bombing possible: “They stood alone, against the enemy and against doubts from home and abroad.” In a critical scene that tells the audience why it should care, why this group is not just any American fighting unit, “General Pritchard,” who commands the four AAF bombing groups in England, tells “General Savage,” played by Gregory Peck, “There’s only one hope of shortening this war: daylight precision bombing. If we fold, daylight bombing is done with; and I don’t know, maybe it means the whole show. We could lose the war if we don’t knock out German industry.”7 5 Both the book and the film highlight the effort to paralyze German industry by bombing ball-bearing factories, and in th