ard to enforce whatever will it might have, especially if key government facilities were destroyed or dispersed. As Wells states, “The Germans had struck at the head, and the head was conquered and stunned - only to release the body from its rule. New York had become a headless monster, no longer capable of collective submission.”3 8  The Germans retaliate by initiating “the massacre of New York,” but the uprising of the masses forces America to counter-attack. Other nations sense the chance to strike. French and British air fleets attack Germany while Chinese and Japanese air fleets attack all over Europe. Everywhere “the whole fabric of civilisation was bending and giving, and dropping to pieces and melting in the furnace of the war.” Thirty years later the world’s civilizations have been reduced by unremitting war to “little communities...under the guidance of a medicine man or a priest” fighting for survival against “Panic and Famine and Pestilence that followed in the wake of the War.”3 9 36 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 48 --- Wells’  other significant work in this area, The World Set Free,  was in many ways even more prophetic. Writing in 1913 Wells envisioned the advent of nuclear energy, including the atomic bomb. Initially used for peaceful purposes, nuclear energy brings about a new wave of industrial productivity and prosperity.4 0  But soon the new energy exacerbates economic competition, and when war breaks out, atomic bombs, borne by aerial bombers, bring the world to the brink of collapse. Out of this comes an ironic vision which Wells intended more as a warning of humanity’s only hope than as a utopian prophecy: faced with the specter of atomic extinction, the nations of the world come together to form a world government, the Republic of Mankind, which eradicates war across the planet; the irony rests in the fact that the new world government