would devastate Soviet industry thus making it possible for the stronger, but still outnumbered, Western European forces to drive the Red Army out of their territory.1 8 Spaatz’s most direct reply came in July with an article detailing why the U.S. needed the B-36. As to its vulnerability Spaatz stated: Much nonsense has been written about whether a fighter plane can climb as high and fly as fast as a B-36. During the second world war [sic] the Lancasters and Wellingtons of the RAF were excelled by the German fighters in speed, climb, and 238 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 250 --- altitude. Yet they operated successfully at night over Germany throughout the war. The B-17s in daylight, although exposed repeatedly to attacks by enemy fighters, operated successfully throughout the war. He then added, without mentioning the heavy losses suffered in these attacks, that not one AAF bombing attack was ever turned back by either German or Japanese defenses. Returning to the notion of the Red Army overrunning Europe Spaatz stated that in such an event Soviet submarines might block the Navy from approaching Europe thus leaving air strikes launched from the continental U.S. as the only means of striking back at Russia. Spaatz followed up this counter-attack with another one month later that addressed the Navy charge that the Air Force’s emphasis on strategic bombing was undermining tactical air forces. Despite a long trend in Air Force neglect of the tactical air mission, Spaatz insisted that the true culprit was the effort to support two redundant air forces in the Navy and the Air Force: “The total amount now being spent for air power by the United States is more than adequate. But it is not enough to support two air forces with duplicate establishments.” This, according to Spaatz, prevented the Air Force from acquiring the forces it had long requested which left it we