with Curtis LeMay - they too were on a first name basis - and this correspondance is what first prompted Bartlett to believe there was a need for the film and to conceive the storyline.6 2 WILLIAM WISTER HAINES The story of another postwar air power writer, William Wister Haines, bears some striking similarities to the lives of Lay and Bartlett. Born in 1908 in Des Moines, Iowa, Haines grew up in an engineer’s home and graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1931.6 3  After college Haines began writing novels and screenplays, but he did not show any early interest in aviation. His first two novels, Slim (1934) and High Tension  (1938), were about the men who worked powerlines. During the Second World War, though, Haines joined the AAF, rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel, and worked deciphering German codes, an experience that led to his 1986 book Ultra and the History o f  the U. S. Strategic Air Force Versus the German Air Force.6 * After the war Haines’  experience with the AAF inspired his only work directly related to the air power debate, but it was a work of such magnitude that it warrants his consideration among the ranks of influential air power advocates. That work was Command Decision.  The story began its life as a three-act play that opened in late 1946 in Cleveland, in late 1947 in New York, and then became a hit on Broadway in late 1948. The play was also published in book form by Random House in 1947. Because the play was so successful Haines rewrote it as a novel, which was serialized in Atlantic M onthly , 115 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 127 --- condensed in Reader's Digest , and published in book form in 1947.6 5  The play and novel generated considerable interest in Hollywood. It was one of the first war movies to go into production after the war ended, but some production executives questioned how the public would react to