ses and strike directly at the enemy’s heart. Writing in the midst of escalating tensions with the Soviets, Spaatz claimed that the Soviet Union’s power rested on “a relatively few decisive target areas,” and “that the precision bombing of a few hundred square miles of industrial area in a score of Russian cities would fatally cripple Russian industrial power.” 198 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 210 --- Spaatz added the element of mathematical precision with his inaugural column in Newsweek  in September 1948. Spaatz stated that, based on the TNT equivalent of the Hiroshima bomb, ninety nuclear loaded B-29s equaled 79,200 conventionally loaded B- 17s, and since B-17s and B-24s proved so effective against Germany in World War II where there were never more than 5,000 at any one time, ninety B-29s with their nuclear loads should have little trouble defeating any aggressor.5 4  Huie had also claimed that nuclear air power could deliver quick victory. Speculating in 1946 on how a future war would be fought he stated that two successive waves of missiles and bombers would leave the third wave of airborne occupation troops little to do in the way of mopping up. He even predicted that the war would be over so quickly that the Navy’s submarines would not have enough time to begin effective anti-shipping operations.5 5 The assurances of swift defeat at the hands of air power encouraged an already pronounced trend for the public to view atomic bombs as wonder weapons, and thus fantastic predictions proliferated. In 1948 U.S. News and World Report  cited the writings of air power advocates in mapping out a “Blueprint for a 30-Day War” in which the U.S. would bring a nation like the Soviet Union to its knees with a swift and furious “air blitz.”5 6  Just as the public could be reassured with images of easy victory, though, the heightened expectation of the new lethality o