th services who see what air power can do but who are needlessly dying in their effort to keep American air power alive.4 2  Mitchell’s sinking of the Ostfriesland , for example, is depicted as a prolonged effort by the Army and Navy to “rig” the test to make it impossible for Mitchell to succeed. Thus he is forced to violate orders to make the test an honest assessment of air power’s capabilities. Mitchell’s famous press statement that prompted his court- martial is cast in a similar light. With the Army ignoring his repeated efforts to correct dangerous problems through official channels, and with the Navy ignoring similar efforts among its airmen, Mitchell is portrayed as a heroic and selfless patriot who issues his press 191 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 203 --- statement knowing it will cost him his career. Ignoring the newspapermen’s efforts to get him to tone down his inflammatory charges, he replies to one report’s question of whether this statement could get him court-martialed by stating “that is exactly what I want.” The film further sanitizes Mitchell’s reputation by depicting him as eschewing the public appeal his defense team, headed by Congressman Frank Reid, feels is necessary to winning the case. Mitchell, according to the movie, merely wanted to win support for air power, not discredit the Army. In reality, Mitchell arranged for Liberty  magazine to publish articles around the time of the trial to maximize his publicity.4 3 In presenting the trial itseff the film used an approach found in other works of air power advocacy, that of portraying supporters of air power as sensible and reasonable while portraying its critics as dull-witted, malicious, or biased by service loyalties. Throughout the first half of the trial, for example, the general who heads the court refuses to allow Mitchell to bring evidence that his remarks were justified becau