Force man,” “hard as nails,” but still “a devoted family man.” Readiness in the face of the new missile threat is also given effusive, and at times theatrical praise: “I sleep in my underwear, with the flight suit laid out in such a way that I can step into suit and shoes in a single leap,” “Everything about the area exudes an air of readiness, even the autos are cocked, not parked,” and “the pack exploded out of the building.... we shot out on the acres of concrete apron and, veering fit to tip over, the jeep screeched to a halt...and everybody hit the concrete.”1 9 The glorification of SAC continued into the early sorties. For example, in 1961 Life ran a pictorial essay focusing on how Loring Air Force Base responded to yet another inspection. The inspection gave the Life writers ample opportunity to present a reassuring picture of SAC’s capabilities and professional excellence. Ever vigilant, SAC uses these inspections, “the severest going-over the Strategic Air Command gives it units,” to ensure that every base is ready to do its part for security through nuclear retaliation. Life calls the one that hit Loring, “the surprise test that helps keep SAC unrelentingly ready.” The 287 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 299 --- inspector general appears grim and determined in every photo, and his staff is described as “hard-eyed officers with a bagful of tricks to play.” The base whips into action and earns high praise from Life: “Crews worked with fierce, cold efficiency to get ready for their far-ranging missions. Even the watchdogs snarled more menacingly.” The legend of American bombing accuracy gets another boost in this article as well, for the inspectors found that in the bombing phase of the inspection the target “was hit on the nose every time.” Life's overall assessment: “SAC is more than ever on alert.”2 0 The series of magazine articles throughout the fif