rnold also showed an early rebellious streak. He was a member of a secret group called the “Black Hand,” a group which rebelled against West Point’s notorious discipline by creating as much mischief as possible. Arnold also showed at West Point an obsession to live a life of romantic adventure. As a cadet he lived for only one goal - to become a cavalry officer - “the last romantic thing left on earth.” When his grades, not to mention his disciplinary record, landed him in the infantry instead of the cavalry upon graduation in 1907, he appealed to his representatives in Congress, but to no avail. After service in the infantry he was sent in 1911 to learn to fly with the Wright Brothers, and in flying he found fulfillment for his longing for romantic adventure.3  During World War I Arnold served in Washington as a staff officer. After the war Arnold became an avid disciple of Billy Mitchell, and after Mitchell’s court martial in 1925 he carried on Mitchell’s advocacy work until threatened 93 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 105 --- with a court martial of his own in 1926.4  At that point Arnold confined his advocacy work to the books he co-authored with Ira Eaker and the B ill Bruce  series of aviation adventure stories he wrote for the pre-teenaged reading audience.5 After c o mm anding the AAF through World War II Arnold emerged as a highly respected symbol of American air power despite his retirement in early 1946, but his forays into the realm of popular culture were fewer than before the war. This is ironic, for during most of the interwar period Arnold was relatively unknown to the general public, and his postwar notoriety would have undoubtedly added considerable weight to the crusade to sway the public mind. Furthermore, during the war he had done much to “sell” the AAF to the public. For example, he had initiated the projects that resulted in both the mo