r Beime Lay. Both had been B- 24 pilots in World War II and both were still in the Air Force Reserve. Stewart suggested a movie about a reservist recalled to active duty during the Korean War. Lay had written a movie script about B-36s called High Ramparts  that was never produced, so he took Stewart’s idea, combined it with elements from High Ramparts,  and developed them into the story for Strategic Air Command.*0  Darryl F. Zanuck at Twentieth Century-Fox briefly considered the project but ultimately declined and Paramount bought the story assigning Samuel J. Briskin to produce the film and Anthony Mann to direct it. Lay co­ authored the screenplay with Valentine Davies, who had written The Bridges at Toko Ri and who had a brother in the Air Force and a son in the Air Force Reserve.4 1 The plot revolves around a famous baseball player, Dutch Holland, played by Stewart, who is recalled to active duty as a Reserve bomber pilot. With his ballplaying career just beginning to recover from his service in World War II, Holland at first resents having to interrupt it again, but he soon begins to see that SAC desperately needs reservists to remain on active duty beyond their involuntary tour of duty. His newlywed wife, on the other hand, is anxious to return to her settled civilian lifestyle. Holland finally resolves to remain on active duty because SAC’s mission is so important that it outweighs all personal considerations. Significantly, his wife, played by June Allyson, reconciles 297 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 309 --- herself to Holland’s decision because she too can see how important his new job is. The issue of reservists staying on active duty was a great concern to Lay, who told LeMay that he felt SAC would be dependent upon reservists for 80% of their personnel for a long time and that he hoped the movie would inspire more of them to reenlist.4 2 In the