t in the bombing phase of the inspection the target “was hit on the nose every time.” Life's overall assessment: “SAC is more than ever on alert.”2 0 The series of magazine articles throughout the fifties also extolled other aspects of SAC besides its bombers. More than just rounding out the picture to include all activities in SAC, these other articles, sharing the same laudatory tone, created a comprehensive picture that whatever SAC did it could do no wrong. In 1955, for example, John G. Hubbell wrote an article for Reader's Digest  describing the survival school SAC ran for its flight crews. The school taught fliers how to survive in any climate on earth should they be forced to crash-land or bail out of a stricken aircraft. Predictably, Hubbell’s tenor celebrates both how comprehensively SAC is prepared for any contingency and how much SAC flight crews suffer to defend America.2 1  Another article by Hubbell in 1957 introduced the public to the new SAC air refueling tanker, the KC-135. This new all-jet swept wing aircraft was a vital addition to the SAC inventory, according to Hubbell, because it allowed bombers to refuel at their normal cruise altitude and airspeed. The new capability made the range-extending operation more reliable and efficient and, Hubbell told his audience, ensured the bombers would reach their targets deep inside the Soviet Union. Despite the fact that by this time air refueling had become routine, Hubbell managed to 288 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 300 --- convey a sense of urgency as yet again the brave, dedicated, professionals of SAC demonstrate that “new power has been added to the free world’s biggest Sunday punch - the Strategic Air Command.”2 2 The biggest addition to SAC during the fifties, though, was missiles, and despite Blair’s dissmissive attitude toward them, air power advocates incorporated this new capability into