d allow America to bomb efficiently and humanely, both wonderful progressive images, not brutally and clumsily as enemy nations had done. The technological superiority image was reinforced by the messianic image. The airplane would deliver American soldiers from the repetition of World War I slaughter that many expected. When daylight precision bombing became official doctrine in late 1941 and the Air Corps began selling its “pickle barrel bombing,” and after America entered the war buoyed by images of Pearl Harbor, the public embraced strategic bombing with an enthusiasm surpassing even Air Corps leaders. This support continued even after it became clear that U.S. bombing was neither as accurate nor as humane as predicted.1 2 3 World War II World War II saw America’s latent support for air power transformed into overt support. Across the country people joined in the goal to fill the skies with warplanes, and 68 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 80 --- one of the most popular images of the war was one of bombs raining down on Hitler and Tojo.1 2 4  One of the most striking and pervasive manifestations of the enthusiasm for air power in popular culture can be seen in magazine advertisements throughout the war. Pick virtually any issue of Saturday Evening Post, Life, Collier  ’s, or any other general interest weekly and one will note that a favorite visual image for tying into war themes was the airplane. Warplanes or air power subjects were used to pitch everything from cars to refrigerators to radios to tires. Even ads depicting ground or naval forces frequently showed an airplane in the sky overhead.1 2 5  Another eloquent testimonial to the public’s expressed faith in air power was the response to Gallup poll questions on the issue of air force independence. In July 1941 42% favored independence, 33% opposed it, and 25% were undecided. By August 1942, 44% of re