oes not mince words when it comes to LeMay’s demands on his people. Speaking of LeMay’s staff he quotes LeMay: “They know I wouldn’t hesitate to order them on a one-way mission if I thought it was necessary.” And in summing up the profile he gives LeMay the last word: “They say I’m 291 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 303 --- pretty tough. Maybe I am. Right now it’s a tough world we live in. This command has to operate just like we did in England or on Guam during the war.”2 9 A similar profile appeared in Life in 1954 written by Ernest Havemann. The article received an even wider audience when it was reprinted that same year in Reader’ s Digest. Calling LeMay “relentlessly efficient,” an “implacable perfectionist,” and “the toughest air soldier the world has ever known,” Havemann says “LeMay and the Air Force seem to have been made for each other” and that he “is ideally suited by reputation and demeanor to keep his command at the peak efficiency which world conditions and U.S. military policy demand.”3 0  But it is in describing LeMay’s personal impact on SAC and military history that Havemann’s heroic hyperbole reaches its peak. LeMay is credited as the single agent that made SAC a force that the Russians feared and respected. In describing LeMay’s impact on SAC Havemann states, “LeMay took SAC by the scruff of the neck, gave it one quick shake and soon had it bristling.” Speaking of LeMay’s development of the firebombing tactics used against Japan, Havemann calls it “one of the crucial military decisions of all time, a decision that will certainly go down in history alongside such fortunate tactical choices as Washington’s counterattack at Trenton.” It is this reputation as much as American bombers that in Havemann’s opinion deters Soviet aggression.3 1 The interest in LeMay was so great that it even spawned articles detailing LeMay’s private life and the in