no time had a naval partisan been given the opportunity to refute a pro-air power article as Drake was allowed with Pratt’s article. Still, Pratt did not help his cause when he made such obvious errors as claiming that no ship was sunk in World War II when it had escorting battleships, and such inconsistent statements as claiming atomic attacks against the Soviet Union would be counter-productive but that the Navy needed the supercarrier so it could launch nuclear attacks against targets deep inside the Russian heartland.1 3 A better effort came from Rear Admiral Daniel V. Gallery, in The Saturday Evening Post.  Gallery, alluding to the anti-Navy campaign dating from December 1948, termed the air power message as one promising “quick and sure victory - at bargain rates.” Attacking this notion directly and Huie by name, he got right to the heart of the fallacy buried deep in the image postwar air power advocates presented about strategic atomic bombing. First, the nuclear blitz did not fit every foreseeable conflict with which America could be confronted, and thus the nation needed to maintain balanced land, sea, and air forces. “While we are devastating the cities of the enemy hinterland with intercontinental bombers, his ground army may be occupying the rest of Europe. What happens then? Do we blitz Paris, Rome and Brussels?” More important, he observed, air power advocates neglected postwar realities if such a war was won by atomic bombing: 235 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 247 --- “We are losing sight of the fundamental fact that war is simply a means to an end.... Wars are fought for political objectives, and the accomplishment of the objective doesn’t begin until the war is over.... Wholesale destruction of the populated areas of an enemy country is a poor way to promote a lasting peace.” Gallery was quick to point out that he supported a strategic force