forces. Gruff and taciturn by nature, LeMay was a forceful 290 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 302 --- commander who believed strongly in strategic bombing, but Bell’s Palsy had also left his face mildly disfigured into what appeared to be a perpetual scowl.2 6  When LeMay took over SAC he found it to be, as Harry Borowski has described, “a hollow threat,” but he quickly turned the command around.2 7  He soon gained a reputation as a tough, demanding commander who drove SAC’s people hard to meet his exacting standards. Many of the articles highlighting SAC throughout the fifties focused on LeMay as the person singlehandedly responsible for SAC’s effectiveness and often seem to imply that he personally invested the command with the same toughness and determination that he himself was reported to possess.2 8  The greatest reflection of the emphasis on LeMay, though, is the articles which focused solely on the man himself. In 1950 William Bradford Huie wrote his last air power piece, a profile of LeMay, for Coronet.  Compared to Huie’s articles of the previous year this one was low-key and centered on LeMay’s personality, his qualifications to lead SAC, and his commitment to its mission. Calling SAC “the cocked arm of Western civilization,” Huie personalized that mission into LeMay’s mission: “LeMay’s job is to keep the arm ready and strong, for on his ability to strike hard hangs our principal hope for survival.” Describing LeMay as “a relentless efficiency expert,” Huie also claims that his reputation as “more machine than man” is unfair, and that his concern for SAC’s troops, as seen in his efforts to improve Air Force housing, inspires great loyalty. Still, Huie does not mince words when it comes to LeMay’s demands on his people. Speaking of LeMay’s staff he quotes LeMay: “They know I wouldn’t hesitate to order them on a one-way mission if I thought it was nec