r material before the public through the medium of popular culture. Some of the groups considered in this chapter, therefore, cannot be considered “air power groups” in the strictest sense of the phrase, but because a significant and identifiable number of their members were instrumental in transmitting the air power message to the public, their role is part of this study. In the course of analysis, however, their exact relationship with the air power movement will be considered. 135 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 147 --- THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE Not surprisingly, the U.S. Air Force was active in the popular culture campaign for air power in many ways and at many levels. Much of this activity was of an official nature. On numerous occasions Air Force leaders wrote articles, gave interviews, or delivered speeches that put their thoughts on air power before large segments of the general public. The Air Force also provided movie studios with technical support that often meant the difference between whether a film would be made or not. Finally, the Air Force Public Relations Office acted as a critical liaison between Air Force officials and the various media, and one of its chief concerns was presenting the best view of both the Air Force and air power. Much of the help given to the air power cause, though, was unofficial, for many Air Force members maintained old friendships or formed new ones and through this channel provided ideas and information to writers that helped shape their conception of air power. In this section we will not explore every example of Air Force involvement in the popular culture campaign, but instead lay out some patterns of that involvement. Military leaders are always in demand with many groups as speakers at official, unofficial, and semi-official functions, and Air Force leaders are no exception. A search through any Air Force lead