s into Cuba for a right-wing group plotting a coup and then he was to bomb Havana when the coup broke out. Caught and arrested for this crime he spent some time in jail after which he drifted in and out of various jobs and the Veterans Administration’s mental health facilities where he was diagnosed with mild stress disorders. In what appeared to be both an effort to stay out of jail and another attempt to gain glory he seized upon the story of a guilt complex for his role in Hiroshima and played up to various anti-nuclear groups around the world.6 1 What makes The Hiroshima Pilot  seem to be a transitional work is both its neutral stance toward the Air Force and works that Huie wrote later in his career beyond the period of this study. In 1975 he wrote In the H ow s o f Night,  a novel based on events of the late forties. The story embodies Huie’s belief late in life that after World War n  the U.S. should have led the world toward universal disarmament under an international peacekeeping force.6 2  This is a sharp departure from the man who in 1949 warned the Soviet Union, “we can do to Russia, if Russia attacks us, what Rome did to Carthage.” In forgetting that he had been one of the leading proponents of relying on a large nuclear armed Air Force, Huie’s disassociation from air power seems to have become complete. This new conviction remained with Huie for the rest of his life, for around the time of his death he told Contemporary Authors  that he was working on a story titled How America Failed Mankind.  Huie called this story, “the most important story of the twentieth 358 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 370 --- century, for it is the story of the men who made the atomic bomb and who...worked desperately to prevent the bomb from becoming a national weapon.”6 3 In another example, Fletcher Knebel, author of several pro-air power articles for Look  during t