here are numerous figures from businesses that seem to have no connection with the flying world, such as Sears, Roebuck, Procter and Gamble, and General Mills. Furthermore, numerous private individuals became charter members ranging from Bernard Baruch and Clark Gable to Earl Brown, a Minnesota sheriff. Military figures are conspicuously absent from the list of charter members, for the League barred active-duty military members from joining in any capacity.2 3 The League initially planned for a mass-membership national organization with regular membership dues set at $5 a year, but by the end of 1945 it decided that such an organization was incompatible with the group’s goals. The League estimated that this set­ up would yeild 30,000 to 40,000 regular members who would be less committed to the 146 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 158 --- national headquarters program than the League desired. Furthermore, the membership would have a high turnover rate and most of the funds raised would be consumed by the administrative costs of maintaining membership and producing and mailing League material to such a large, scattered group of members. This seems a prescient observations for that is very close to what the Air Force Association experienced in trying to maintain its mass-membership organization. As an alternative, by the end of 1945 the League opted for a foundation-style organization where membership would be limited and cost a minimum of $50 annually. Under this arrangement the national office would gain the bulk of its budget by soliciting corporate and philanthropic donations. With part of the money raised the League planned to establish local, independent, and self-directed Air Power Clubs, “community groups which will be the spearhead of air development in America.” The clubs would then form “powerful state organizations” that would become part of the Air Pow