aborated with Paul Tibbets, Jr., the pilot of the aircraft that dropped the first atomic bomb, on the movie 265 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 277 --- Above and Beyond.  The film did well at the box office. It ranked twenty-ninth among the year’s top attractions and grossed two-and-a-half million dollars.6 9  The Air Force may have played a role in instigating the film. At the start of the project Lay told Curtis LeMay that Brigadier General Sory Smith, director of Air Force Public Information, told Tibbets that “the Air Force thought it timely to have his story made and would cooperate with a motion picture production.” The movie tells the story of Tibbets’  efforts to prepare and train the 509th Composite Group for the task of dropping the atomic bombs on Japan. A principle sub-plot revolves around the extreme security surrounding the Manhattan Project and the activities of the 509th. Unable to tell his men or their families what they are training for, Tibbets is depicted as suffering under the strain of accusations from many, even his wife, that he is a martinet. While the film does not deal with the larger themes of strategic bombing doctrine or revolutionary air power, it does portray Tibbets and most of his men as heroic figures sacrificing for a greater good. This greater good is, of course, that the atomic bomb will end the war, and by extension, that in the postwar environment it will keep the peace.7 0 Taken together, the total effect of the heightened public interest in all forms of air power, strategic bombing, air defense, and tactical roles, was that air power advocates picked up the cry for more air power of all forms while keeping strategic air power as the primary focus and urging it on the public as the nation’s best means of security. Wesley Price, for example, compared American air power to the Soviet’s air strength across the board in a 19