ys a generally positive view of air power. This characterization is not surprising because George had been an RAF pilot.5 5  In the preparedness tradition of “future war” literature George’s work sees the “missile gap” as the ultimate cause of the near-disaster of which he writes, for the general who launches the bombers to attack the Soviet Union does so to start a war before the first Soviet missiles are operational and while America has a temporary advantage. As 353 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 365 --- opposed to the insane “General Jack D. Ripper” of the film version, a quite sane General Quinten believes that America’s avowed policy never to launch a first-strike leaves it at a disadvantage which, once the Soviets have large numbers of missiles makes it only a matter of time before America is destroyed. For this reason, sensing a brief window of opportunity, he launches an attack which he hopes will be followed by an all-out American nuclear attack.5 6  The positive view of air power is borne out not only by the image of bombers saving America from eventual destruction, but also in the novel’s depiction of American air power as technically sophisticated and its airmen as motivated and highly proficient. The novel ends on a strong preparedness note. When the disaster is narrowly averted both the President and the Soviet ambassador agree that peace will only be ensured once both sides are armed with ICBMs because the threat of mutual annihilation will keep each side from launching an attack.5 7 Kubrick saw great potential for farce in George’s novel and in the process of reworking the story no institution or person escapes his attack, but air power clearly emerges as one of the chief culprits. The President, the Soviets, the Army, and academic deterrence theorists all comes in for a good roasting. Even the film’s lone hero, RAF Group Captain Lionel Mandra