nd fits the image of the fighter pilot into the image of revolutionary air power. The United Artist film Sabre Jet,  starring Robert Stack, highlighted the F-86, the Air Force’s frontline fighter, and used actual combat footage shot in Korea to capture an authentic flavor of the Air Force’s effort to win air superiority and help the Army on the ground. As with later air power films, it also showcases the dedication of Air Force pilots as they deal with family problems generated by wives forced to wait in Japan while their husbands fly combat missions over Korea. The pilots, sensing the “higher calling” of what air power can do in the war, place the Air Force’s needs above their wives’  concerns, and the wives in turn realize the importance of air power and embrace their husbands’ commitment. In one critical scene Stack’s wife, an ambitious combat reporter, realizes that her need to support her squadron commander husband outweighs her career goals.6 4 Air power advocates even turned the public concern over tactical capabilities to their own advantage. Since they never felt the Air Force was large enough to meet its many commitments they added tactical air power to their list of “dangerously” weak areas. Part of this effort focused on Korea. For example, some called for immediate action to reverse the inferiority of American jet fighters to the MiG-15. Fletcher Knebel, writing for 263 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 275 --- Look  magazine, stated the disparity dramatically: “The fact is that the Communists can rub us out of the air there any month they want to do it,” and asked “What has happened to the American fighting plane that only eight years ago ruled the skies of the world?” Knebel laid the blame on budgetary constraints that forced the Air Force to design the F- 86 as an all-purpose aircraft intended to perform air superiority, air interdiction, and clos