acts and figures that made the air power case look very scientific. Ultimately, the charge that the Navy’s attack was motivated by their own desire to acquire the strategic bombing mission put the Navy on the defensive and made air power seem that much more creditable. Gallery’s charge that the air power advocates had forgotten that war is politics by other means, though, went unanswered. It did not have to be, for only three months later, in September, and half a world away an event took place that left the public less concerned about whether atomic bombs were suitable for every conceivable war and more worried about what atomic bombs might do in a war against America. The Revolt of the Admirals took a lot out of the popular culture crusade. Whether because the public fight with the Navy was a sort of baptism-by-fire that led to a loss of innocence or because of the deadly serious business that followed hard on its heels, the end result was that air power message lost its simplistic character and its naivete. 240 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 252 --- Increasingly afterward air power advocates would be the bearers of harsh realities urging Americans to “buck-up” and confront the “facts.” Also their message would stress more institutional themes, that is, rather than evangelizing an ethereal notion of “air power” they proclaimed that what was good for the Air Force, or more often SAC, was good for the country. Symbolic of the new spirit, the air power cause lost one of its more controversial figures. After the sue month blitz that help precipitate the Revolt of the Admirals, Huie turned to other topics. Whether because of the attacks he suffered from Navy advocates or because he had had a change of heart, with the exception of a mild profile of LeMay in October 1950, he never wrote another pro-air power piece again. Within two months of the LeMay article, Huie