thirties. For example, in 1932 Arlington B. Conway, in an article published by The American Mercury,  took on the notion that bombing cities would be devastating and decisive. He concluded that targeting civilians would be ineffective. Little significant damage would be done and the passions of the masses for war would be inflamed. Air power would still remain a terror, in his view, but the only other application Conway could envision was that bombers would seek out and focus on more lucrative, that is military, targets. In effect, while he opposed the proliferation of air power, he reached the same basic conclusions as the theorists at the ACTS.1 0 5 In addition to those who opposed air power on moralistic or pacifistic grounds, others made forays into popular culture questioning the military efficacy of exaggerated claims made by air power advocates. Often these individuals had military experience in either the Army or the Navy. One early example is Major Thomas R. Phillips, U. S. Army. Writing in a 1933 Saturday Evening Post  article, Phillips refuted many of the claims made by figures such as Mitchell, and argued that air power, especially the bomber, was merely the glamourous “pinch hitter” who made a limited contribution, but that well-rounded military forces were needed for an overall team effort.1 0 6  In the same category, but more prolific, was another Army major, George Fielding Eliot. Author of numerous articles and books, most notably The Ramparts We Watch  and Bombs Bursting in Air,  Eliot was widely respected for his wisdom, balance, and lack of military partisanism. Commenting on Bombs Bursting in Air  in The New Republic,  John Chamberlain stated that the book’s 63 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 75 --- subtitle might well have been “Common Sense About the Possibilities and Limitations of the Airplane in War.”1 0 7  In explaining the views of m