gn. First, it became institutionalized in that the main air power institution, the Air Force, became responsible to some degree for claims and statements made by air power 228 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 240 --- advocates. For example, the events leading to the Revolt of the Admirals were in part precipitated and aggravated by the writings of noted air power advocates. But this was a reciprocal relationship, for the fate of the air power revolution became tied to the actions of the Air Force. Even if the Air Force was wrong, as for example in neglecting tactical air power before Korea, air power’s defenders followed one of two courses. They either denied the problem or fixed blamed on someone or something else, but they never blamed the Air Force publicly, for that would weaken the air power cause. Second, while it may seem hard to believe when looking at some things air power advocates wrote during this period, compared to the rhetoric of earlier periods their claims became more realistic and responsible. There was no more talk of a handful of planes bringing victory in a matter of days. Sometimes they also brought bad news; General Vandenberg, for example, made pessimistic statements on air defense. Also with the Air Force responsible for living up to the promises made for air power its partisans had to live with reality to some degree. No amount of verbal smokescreen could hide the blatantly obvious. Third, the ranks of air power advocates would lose one face and gain several others. After playing a significant role in the days leading to the Revolt of the Admirals William Bradford Huie would, for all practical purposes, disappear from the public air power scene. Taking his place would be Harold H. Martin and Wesley Price, both writing for The Saturday Evening Post,  and Fletcher Knebel, a writer for Look.  Together they would contribute a significant nu