s who became charter members bears inclusion to grasp its full magnitude. Amon G. Carter, president of Carter Publications, a Forth Worth newspaper, radio and television conglomerate. Gardner Cowles, Jr., president of Des Moines Register and Tribune John Cowles, president of Minneapolis Star Journal and Tribune Silliman Evans, president and publisher of Tennessean  Newspapers E. K. Gaylord, president of The Oklahoma Publishing Company Louis Levand, publisher of The Wichita Beacon Merrill C. Meigs, vice president of the Hearst Corporation Marcellus M. Murdock, publisher of The Wichita Eagle Carter, Gardner Cowles, Hearst, and Meigs all went beyond charter membership and served as executives for both the League and the Council. In addition, the Tennessean and Des M oines Register and Tribune  made corporate donations to the League’s 162 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 174 --- Foundation.4 6  Such affiliation prompts speculation that these newspapers reflected their publishers’  support for air power, but this can only be confirmed by a detailed study of each newspaper’s editorial stance, which is beyond the scope of this study. Publishers of some of the most popular general interest magazines were also represented among the supporters of the League and Council, and here support for air power can be demonstrated within the pages of their publications. For example, Walter D. Fuller, president of Curtis Publishing Company, the firm which published the Saturday Evening Post,  was a charter member of the League, and his magazine ran numerous articles on air power throughout the interwar and postwar period. Henry R. Luce, owner of Time and Life magazines, was also a charter member, and his Life magazine made air power articles a regular feature. Finally, Gardner Cowles, president of the Des Moines Register and Tribune,  was also president of Look  magazine which regula