ing official statements and news releases. Perhaps the most effective way the public relations office influenced public imagination, though, was through its work with Hollywood. For a film project to receive official support from the Air Force, it had to go through the Air Force public relations office. The approval process, however, often involved script changes if the Air Force objected to how it was portrayed. With the costs of making any movie about the Air Force being prohibitively high, film makers often felt compelled to go along with public relations office suggestions to ensure Air Force approval.5  Public Affairs was not simply content to wait for a studio to approach the Air Force with a movie project. If it found a book that reflected well on the Air Force or if it felt the need for public awareness of an Air Force problem the Public Affairs office would circulate word among the studios that the Air Force would undoubtedly support such a film project. This was the case with both The Hunters , based on James Salter’s 1956 novel by the same title, and the 1951 film Air Cadets.6  Once the film had been approved for official support a member of the public 138 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 150 --- relations office served as technical advisor to coordinate Air Force aid and to ensure no changes were made that would reflect badly on the service. The whole issue of military support, though, was fraught with potential for abuse. Beime Lay had been working for at least six months on Strategic A ir Command  and had received a great deal of help from various Air Force commanders and organizations when he commented to Curtis LeMay that the studio still had not requested official Air Force sponsorship.7  In the early sixties the Defense Department tried to clean up such potential for abuse but to no avail when it came to the Air Force. Assistant Secretary of De