, my daughter Nathaniel Charles Call, my son iv Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 8 --- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS In the course of this study I received considerable help from numerous people and I take great pride in documenting that assistance. First and foremost has been the help in shaping and refining my ideas from those who I count as my friends as well as colleagues. Dr. Pete Maslowski, Dr. Dennis Showalter, Col. Phil Meilinger, Ph.D., Col. Rob Owen, Ph.D., Lt. Col. Mark Clodfelter, Ph.D., and Maj. Mark Conversino, Ph.D., all listened to my first vague gropings or read outlines and offered invaluable advice, pointed critiques, and most important, encouragement. For this I am truly grateful. I also wish to thank those unsung heroes of historical research, the archivists who helped me find material that proved so critical to my research. Col. Rauschkolb and the staff of the Air Force Historical research Agency were all very helpful and provided a research stipend at a critical stage of my research, but I especially want to thank archivists Joe Caver and Micky Russell. Their assistance made my work there far more productive than it otherwise would have been, and they maintain by far the most “researcher-friendly” working environment of any archive I have ever visited. At the National Archives David Giordano was truly a godsend. He single-handedly turned one inadequate citation into a wealth of invaluable material that unlocked the inner workings of Air Force - Hollywood cooperation. At the Library of Congress Bill Barry in the Motion Picture section went the v Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 9 --- extra mile in identifying and locating material, and his help allowed me to make advanced arrangements so that my research in Washington would be most productive. Here a