phasis on revolutionary themes. Magazine articles bear out this trend as well. Increasingly emphasizing institutions, especially SAC, few articles extolled the brave new future of air power as had characterized much of the pro-air power material of the late forties. In 1948 Collier's  had devoted the better part of an entire issue to the 45th anniversary of the Wright Brothers’  first flight, but the seemingly more significant 50th anniversary in 1953 drew far less coverage. In 1954 Life published an article harkening to the great air age ahead and it published another in 1956, but these are conspicuous for being exceptions. Perhaps the best indication of this lack of emphasis is the fact that the 1959-1961 edition of R eader’ s Guide to Periodic Literature  omits the category “Air Power,” a heading it had listed since its 1932-1935 edition.4  The 1956-57 322 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 334 --- CBS television series A ir Power  cast its subject in a revolutionary context but individual episodes frequently stressed that it was a revolution that carried both dangerous and beneficial portent. Something had changed in American society too. The simple faith in air power built up in the late forties and nurtured through the early fifties was slipping away. The impact of Sputnik in awakening public fears should not be minimized, but this was not the first nuclear-related shock the Soviets had inflicted on the American public. The difference in public reaction in 1957 as opposed to the response to the 1949 Soviet atomic bomb blast illustrates the declining faith in air power. As in 1949 a spate of articles appeared in general interest magazines reassuring Americans that air power had an answer to the new threat. Many of these articles reassured the public that SAC’s bombers were still a relevant deterrent, but others hailed the rapid development of new missiles tha