Various scenes showing procedures in the SAC command post, activities in a Wing 351 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 363 --- command post, and crewmembers decoding alert messages reassured the public that SAC was in constant control of all its wings and aircraft at all times. But other images of airmen knocking themselves out for a commander they hate and despite the effects on their families actually reinforced the Burdick and Wheeler image of SAC automatons.5 2 In 1964 Max Youngstein turned Fail-Safe  into a movie that followed the novel almost to the letter. Youngstein was a member of an anti-nuclear group known as the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy, or SANE, that formed in the wake of Sputnik, and he actively pursued the film rights using his like-mindedness with the authors as a bargaining lever. Youngstein did add some features to the movie. One gripping, if implausible scene added to the image of the SAC automaton. After Grady refuses to listen to the President’s order to break off the attack, SAC headquarters puts Grady’s wife on the radio and she hysterically pleads with him to return, but to even this the unbending pilot turns a deaf ear. The other major addition comes after the President tells the Premier that New York will be bombed. Reinforcing Youngstein’s disarmament views the President lectures the Premier that both countries built the system that caused the disaster and now both sides must work together to destroy that system. Not surprisingly, the Air Force refused to help with production, which hurt the film’s visual authenticity. But since the book had raised such controversy over its less-than-authentic presentation, theater­ goers could hardly have expected to see an accurate depiction of Air Force flying. And go to the theater they did, for in its first three months the film grossed $1.8 million. Patrons undoubtedly went hopi