age 362 --- General Thomas Power, Commander of SAC, epitomizes the official Air Force response. Amhym argued that the authors did not understand the system. There were no “Black Boxes” like the novel described, and any order to attack had to come from the President and was relayed verbally in an encoded message that then had to be checked by multiple members of every crew on every aircraft. Since the problems that arose in the novel could not arise in SAC’s system, the system was safe. Nowhere does Amhym seem to recognize that the authors saw SAC’s unthinking faith in the system, the very sort of faith he himself was evincing, as the real danger.5 0 Others came to the Air Force’s defense and while they focused on the reliability of SAC’s people as well as its system, they flatly rejected any notion that America’s nuclear air power could inadvertently or inappropriately bring the world to ruin. For example, in 1963 Donald Robinson wrote a reassuring article for This Week Magazine  that Reader’ s Digest  reprinted in its pages. Robinson related in great detail the various aspects of the Positive Control system and with each facet he emphasized that no mistake was possible. He also outlined SAC’s efforts to ensure that no one “madman” or even several working together could possibly launch a nuclear attack. As with the SAC articles of the previous decade Robinson showers SAC with fulsome praise, but his total dismissal of annihilation by mistake reinforced the image that the airmen accepted the hair-triggered apocalypse that Burdick and Wheeler attacked.5 1  Another major effort was Sy Bartlett’s film, A Gathering o f Eagles.  Emanating from his conversations with LeMay that Fail-Safe  would erode the public’s faith in SAC, Bartlett showcased SAC’s Positive Control system. Various scenes showing procedures in the SAC command post, activities in a Wing 351 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- ca