sense they accepted it as a facet of modern warfare, and the Air Force enjoyed generally as much support as did the Army and the Navy. An indication of the new public attitude is how outrageous and out of step with the times LeMay’s proposed solution to the Vietnam dilemma sounded in 1965, and how naive it sounds today. Technological messianism was not purged from the American consciousness, though, for it seems Americans still look to technology, and increasingly science, for salvation from complex problems. Such expectations require a simple-minded fascination with the technology in question. As aviation became less fascinating and people learned more about the complex problems of nuclear air power, the images of deliverance could no longer be maintained. Increasingly from the late fifties on, technological messianism seemed to move on to other wonders, particularly space flight in the sixties, and perhaps computers today. Similarly, enthusiasm for flying has not disappeared entirely. Crowds still flock to air shows across the country where aerial demonstration teams like the Air Force’s Thunderbirds and the Navy’s Blue Angels are a big hit, and every year thousands join the Air Force hoping for a chance to become pilots. The big difference since the early sixties is that few outside air power circles seriously believe that air power can single- handedly handle any military situation that arises. Aviation still retained vestiges of its old 373 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 385 --- romantic imagery in popular culture today but generally such images have reverted to a simpler time, hence the recurring romantic motif of the biplane and the World War I ace. Thus on the eve of America’s deepening involvement in the war in Vietnam there was a significant gulf between what the Air Force and air power advocates believed air power could do and what the public was wi