ir power advocates. First, the bombing efforts were massive undertakings, and too often size alone is enough to convince many people that something significant and effective is being accomplished.1 More important, though, the campaigns were a central part of Allied strategy for defeating both Germany and Japan.2  The results, while hardly conclusive, were significant enough to reinforce the belief of interwar air power advocates that they had been correct in their predictions of an air power revolution. The results also impressed many other observers who were in positions to help shape public opinion. They had heard the prophecies of revolution and they came to believe that Billy Mitchell and the Boys had been right all along. Thus the air power revolution mushroomed after the war as new converts flocked to the banner adding their voices to the old campaigners who had been preaching the air power gospel since the interwar period. More important, the American public was much more receptive to the air power advocates’  claims thanks to the widespread public support for air power generated by the war, and the power of wartime images that extolled the effectiveness of America’s air campaigns. Filled with revolutionary zeal, many air power 176 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 188 --- advocates yearned to share their new-found faith with the American public, for they were convinced that only through mass conversion, through making America an “air power nation,” could air power truly achieve the potential they envisioned. This evangelistic conviction was the driving force behind the air power advocates’  popular culture crusade. The revolutionary mentality, though, went beyond the mere goal of converting the masses to the cause of air power. It also spawned a revolutionary world view that sought to reshape attitudes and reinterpret past events. Air power advocates beli