be even more vulnerable to Soviet air power or submarines. Reiterating his support for a strong Army and Navy, as well as strong land-based strategic air power, Spaatz stated that naval aviation’s true role was helping the Navy keep the sea lanes open.8 De Seversky weighed in on the debate with an article in The American Mercury  in which he stated that maintaining two air forces detracted from land-based strategic air power. Moreover, he claimed, it made no military sense because increased aircraft range had rendered aircraft carriers obsolete.9  Not surprisingly, Huie also joined in with two articles in succeeding issues of Reader’ s Digest.  In March he charged that the Navy was afraid of being relegated to an inferior status behind the Air Force and was therefore using the supercarrier, which he claimed could not handle a plane big enough to carry an atomic bomb, as a ruse to gain a land-based strategic air force of their own. The next month Huie rehashed his 1942 book The Fight For Air Power  to argue that the Army and the Navy, 233 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 245 --- the “Maginot minds, the yeamers for Yesterday,” were still trying to suppress air power against the will of the people and the march of progress.1 0 The cancellation of the supercarrier United States  by brand-new Secretary of Defense Louis A. Johnson in April 1949 prompted the Navy to launch a campaign, commonly known as the Revolt of the Admirals, to discredit the B-36 bomber and to challenge the nation’s reliance on strategic bombing. Perhaps the most controversial aspect of the affair came in April when Cedric R. Worth, a civilian working in Navy public relations, fabricated an anonymous document that circulated widely throughout the press and Congress. The document claimed that the Air Force knew the B-36 was inadequate but that corrupt dealings by the bomber’s manufacturer, Consolid