er’s ties with the Air Force. Through this entire period he maintained a prolonged correspondence with Curtis LeMay, intimate to the point of being on a first name basis with the notoriously gruff SAC commander. In this relationship Lay continually sought LeMay’s input on the air power films Lay was developing, and in exchange LeMay urged Lay to pursue certain topics critical to LeMay and the Air Force.5 9 Lay’s conception of air power comes across mainly through his film projects which convey broad-brush imagery, and thus his theoretical views are hard to pin down. The underlying premise of Twelve O 'clock High  is that daylight precision bombing will decide the fate of the war, but only if it can survive long enough to prove its critics wrong. One bomber group’s troubles could provide the excuse for Washington to kill the whole strategy. The message at the end of the book and movie is clear to the audience: Frank Savage saved the 918th, daylight precision bombing survived and won the war, thus strategic bombing remains America’s salvation in the Cold War. Other movies, though, 112 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 124 --- show less concern for the theory of daylight precision bombing than for a massive bomber force armed with nuclear weapons. Above and Beyond  tells the story of Paul Tibbets and his role in the Hiroshima bombing. Strategic A ir Command  puts a famous baseball player, who also happens to be a reserve Air Force pilot who has been recalled to active duty, in the position of deciding between his baseball career, fame, fortune, and his wife’s wishes on the one hand, and the needs of the Air Force on the other. In Lay’s script the ballplayer, recognizing how much SAC needs pilots and how much America needs a big nuclear force, gives up baseball to remain on active duty after his remobilization tour ends. Bombers B-52  highlights SAC’s need for career