a side to him she never knew existed and plans to leave him. Before she leaves the reinspection team arrives. Instantly all the morale problems are forgotten as the entire base leaps into action performing heroic feats to ensure that the base passes this time around. As one character says while watching Caldwell struggling with a command problem: “There’s a man I thought I’d never be rooting for.” This sudden and universal concern to pass the inspection convinces Caldwell’s wife that the pressure is real and necessary, that her husband is not unusual, that everyone shares the sense of urgency in meeting SAC’s standards. In explaining to Caldwell that she now sees that she was wrong, she tells him of an airman who had just undergone an emergency appendectomy. “Do you know the first thing he asked about when he came round?” she tells him, “his wife or his children? No, he wanted to know how his plane did in the ORI.” All of this undoubtedly conveyed a very positive image of SAC to most of its viewers when the movie first came out, but the movie assumes that its audience recognizes and accepts that SAC is critical to the nation’s survival. The revolutionary themes that were a part of earlier films are almost entirely lacking. There are no speeches about how SAC or air power in general is the only thing standing between the American people and defeat or nuclear annihilation. There are no people a g o nizing  over whether what they do is so important that it justifies staying in the Air Force when loved ones urge them to pursue more lucrative civilian careers. In fact, one of the biggest hardships suffered by the family of the fired base commander is that now they are poor and their son must drop out 306 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 318 --- of Stanford. The closest the film comes to conveying the threat of nuclear devastation is when, in the midst of an alert exe