Military fliers brought expertise, civilians brought diversity and talent. Some civilian advocates were gifted and award-winning writers. Others were stars of stage, screen, radio, and later, television, and they brought to the cause notoriety and stage-presence. Still others made movies and thus could craft powerful visual images. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, anything military advocates wanted to put before the public had to go through civilian intermediaries. Spaatz might write a powerful article but he had to find a like-minded, or at least willing, publisher to get it printed. LeMay might want a movie telling the SAC story but it had to be pushed by someone inside the movie industry to get past other storylines competing for limited production schedules. In short, civilians controlled all the media in popular culture so military air power advocates had to work indirectly to get their message across, but an airminded civilian working inside one of the media could present his or her thoughts much more directly. ALEXANDER P. de SEVERSKY Alexander P. de Seversky’s air power advocacy continued into the postwar period. One measure of his stature resulting from his wartime writings is that shortly after the war he received two prestigious awards: the Medal for Merit, the highest wartime civilian 104 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 116 --- award, in 1946, and the Harmon Trophy, presented each year to the world’s outstanding airman, in 1947. The citations accompanying each award make clear that they were presented in recognition for his wartime efforts to build popular support for air power.3 8 Another indication of the reputation he had built for himself was that at the close of the war Secretary of War Robert P. Patterson sent de Seversky to Europe and Japan as a special consultant to survey the effects of the strategic bombing campaign.3 9 The end of th