d 125 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 137 --- character, played by Stewart, coming to realize that message, the American public came to associate that message with the character and with Stewart himself. The fact that the message corresponded so closely with Stewart’s wartime record and with the image air power advocates had consciously shaped for World War II strategic bombing only made Stewart more closely identified as the embodiment o f SAC and SAC’s mission. After Rock Hudson completed filming A Gathering o f Eagles , another film about SAC and its strategic bombing mission, he stated that filming on a SAC base had corrected his earlier misimpression that SAC was just “Jimmy Stewart and a big airplane.”9 3  Many people probably thought the same thing. Stewart reinforced the connection by sharing the SAC story in his speaking engagements.9 4  While his message may have been a simple one, the fact that people connected strategic air power with a name that was known in every household meant that Stewart had succeeded in carrying his message to millions of Americans in a way they were not likely to forget. These are just a few of the individuals who worked in some capacity to advance the air power cause through the medium of popular culture. The list is potentially endless, and several other figures will appear throughout subsequent chapters. Clark Gable, for example, not only gave one of the best performances of his career in the film version of Command Decision , he also forged an interest in air power when serving in the Eighth Air Force during World War II and then after the war served as a key figure in two organizations seeking to advance the cause of air power. Francis Vivian Drake and W.B. Courtney, as military commentators for two major national general interest magazines 126 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction proh