t permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 75 --- subtitle might well have been “Common Sense About the Possibilities and Limitations of the Airplane in War.”1 0 7  In explaining the views of military men like Phillips and himself toward air power, Eliot states that they are not hostile toward air power, they merely “seek rationally and objectively the true place of the airplane in warfare.” Most officers in the Army and Navy, according to Eliot, realize that the airplane is a formidable weapon, but they are convinced that its “true place” is within a balanced military force structure.1 0 8 By the mid-thirties, and through the end of the decade, just as strategic bombing was becoming entrenched in the Air Corps, international events arose which cast an ugly shadow over the public image of air power. In places like Guernica, Nanking, and London aggressor nations like Germany, Italy, and Japan used bombing against cities and civilian populations, and created an impression conveyed through mass media that air power was a brutal weapon of mass slaughter. The most common reaction in America and around the world was a combination of outrage at the perpetrators and admiration that the victims continued to resist. Ironically, a good example of this comes from two Collier's  articles written by Winston Churchill. Voicing outrage at Fascist bombing in the Spanish Civil War, Churchill pointed out that Republican morale was nevertheless holding strong and they continued to mount effective resistance.1 0 9  The irony is that later under Churchill’s leadership the R.A.F. would put much of their effort into the same form of bombing that Churchill had decried and claimed was ineffective. Some did not take so long to reach the conclusion that turn-about was fair play. W. B. Courtney, a prolific champion of aviation and air power, wrote in 1937 of the “bestiality” of bombing in Spain and warned of some necessary precautions to minimize casualties, but by 1939 his views had cha