g the cornerstone of America’s containment strategy.2 That air power would become the foundation of Eisenhower’s defense policy is not really surprising. Despite his long and prominent career with the Army, Eisenhower had demonstrated considerable acceptance of some of the tenets of revolutionary air power. In a 1947 speech at the Air Force Association Convention in Columbus, Ohio, he spoke at length about how aviation had transformed transportation and travel, and he claimed that the Polar Concept had reshaped international strategic relationships. More to the point, though, he stated that through vertical envelopment, what he called “aerial flanking,” air power had reshaped the tactical and strategic nature of warfare, and he called the Air Force “our nation’s best insurance against attack.” Furthermore, Spaatz had 277 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 289 --- stated in his Newsweek  column that World War II had convinced Eisenhower of the need for the world’s strongest Air Force and that since the war he had been a staunch advocate of air power in a preeminent position over the other services.3  This does not mean that Eisenhower was an air power convert, but he was sympathetic to it and his views on fiscal conservatism meshed with what air power advocates had been saying for decades: air power could provide better defense at less cost. In fact, the thinking behind New Look followed the same line of thinking at the heart of de Seversky’s A ir Power: Key to Survival.  America could not match the Soviets in ground forces so it must rely on its technological and industrial superiority by focusing on air power. The Eisenhower defense policies, therefore, institutionalized the faith air power advocates had been nurturing in American society for years. This official endorsement of revolutionary air power brought the Air Force into a dominant position within the defe