as 106 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 118 --- counter-productive, and that the Soviet citizens would not feel they had been targeted.4 5 The harsh vision did not seem to catch on with the public. Not only did the book sell poorly, but his next and last book, America  - Too Young to Die , published in 1961, sold even fewer copies and had little new to offer. While de Seversky wrote articles throughout the period, his popularity wained. Reader's Guide to Periodical Literature lists only one article appearing in a general interest national magazine after the publication o f Air Power: Key to Survival,  a piece bearing the lurid title “World War HI and How to Win It” published by Coronet  in 1955.4 6  As one scholar has noted, “his writings became increasingly repetitious and technologically dated.”4 7  Still, his works influenced the thinking of other air power enthusiasts, particularly William Bradford Huie, who then magnified de Seversky’s audience by incorporating some of his ideas into their works. WILLIAM BRADFORD HUIE Perhaps one of the most intriguing but little remembered air power advocates was writer William Bradford Huie. Bom in 1910 in Hartselle, Alabama, Huie launched on a career in journalism in 1932 as a reporter for the Birmingham Post.  During the early years of World War II he was an associate editor of the American Mercury,  and from 1943 to 1945 he served in the Navy, rising to the rank of lieutenant. After the war he resumed his work with the American Mercury  as editor and publisher from 1945 to 1952. This was his last formal employment, for after 1952 he earned his living as a free-lance writer and lecturer.4 8  To most Americans he is remembered, if at all, as the author of the best-selling novel The Americanization o f Emily  (1959), which was made into a movie 107 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction pr