e in the powerful visual medium of the cinema, though, the film was quite effective. People were seen leaving theaters in tears and others point to the effect the film had on shaping their views on nuclear issues.2 8  Still, negative images of nuclear war in 1959 could not help but undermine public faith in nuclear air power even if air power was not directly incriminated in the unfolding tragedy. 1959 saw a much more direct attack launched against the image of air power, and one that focused expressly on the image of strategic bombing. John Hersey, the author of Hiroshima,  created an image with his novel The War Lover  that might best be described as a photographic negative of the image presented in Twelve O ’ clock High.  The setting is the same, the B- 17 bombing campaign against Germany in World War n. Both novels set the climactic scene in the same air battle, the bombing raid on Schweinfurt. Both even end 338 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 350 --- with the hero’s plane ditching in the English Channel. The plot is also a psychological study of the men who fly the bombers. The title character, though, is not the heroic image of General Savage, but instead a psychopathic B-17 pilot, Captain Buzz Marrow, who like Savage is meant to embody air power itself. The second main character, the story’s narrator, is Marrow’s co-pilot, Lieutenant Charles Boman, a thoughtful humanist whose growing understanding of Marrow represents society’s awakening awareness of air power’s true nature. Literary critics see The W ear Lover  as a tale of survival, of the humanist learning to survive in the face of all things that destroy life, but for the purposes of this study it is important to view the novel from the perspective of what Hersey saw as the destructive force that threatened humanity.2 9 In The War Lover  Marrow clearly, even repetitiously, emerges as a twisted psycho