ed 7 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 19 --- at the largest audience possible. In writing books, novels, plays, or articles for general interest magazines such as Saturday E vening P ost, Look, L ife,  and R ea d er's D igest , or in making feature films for theaters across the country or shows for network television, air power advocates aimed their message, not at government decision makers or military strategists, but at the general public, the “person on the street.” Furthermore, while such venues sought to be “informative,” they were not “hardcore” news services and were not bound by the same investigative and objectivity standards as were newspapers and news magazines or film documentaries. Thus air power advocates could and did work in images as well as facts, and their images were rarely balanced by opposing viewpoints.8 But what makes the general interest media crucial to understanding the interaction of air power and the American public is their target audience and the reason people turned to these media. Feature films, novels, and general interest magazines sought to appeal to the widest possible audience, the mainstream middleclass, and people turned to such media primarily for diversion. By creating appealing diversion, air power advocates drew a large audience that then became captive receptors for the images air power advocates sought to implant. The most bizarre examples of the dichotomy between diversion and air power images came in general interest magazines where stark depictions of nuclear annihilation were sandwiched between fashion articles and the latest installment of Tugboat Annie. Focusing on how air power advocates presented their message through popular culture gives several revealing insights. First and foremost, it tells us what air power advocates wanted the general public to believe. Secondly, it reflects the degree to which shaper