embodied the best a nation had to offer. Even if the leading character was not actually an ace, the 40 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 52 --- image was the same; larger than life, acting alone, he prevailed against overwhelming odds. Through newsreels and short features, as well as other media, aces were built up into objects of international fame with each nation pouring out honors that far exceeded what these individuals actually accomplished of military value. This “ace” image readily transferred to the feature film as can be seen in two examples. A Romance in the Air, appearing in 1917 and quite popular in America, details the exploits of Bert Hall in the Lafayette Escadrille.  Playing himself in front of the camera, Hall epitomized the dashing nature of the ace: despite being shot down behind German lines, he still manages to rescue his girlfriend and together they escape through enemy lines.5 3  The only American example, Berlin via America,  came out in 1918. In this film an American pilot infiltrates Baron von Richthofen’s flying circus and coordinates an allied bombing raid on Berlin.5 4 Although few air war films were made in Europe and America during the war, the merger of the prewar stock image and the cult of the fighter ace created a conventional image of air power and the airman that would dominate air war movies as the genre grew in numbers and influence after 1918. With the fairly rapid formation of air force units in military establishments across Europe and America, a significant new group emerged, the air power advocates. Rather than a formal organization with an official membership, this was an unofficial category of people who shared a state of mind. Generally anyone, civilian or military, who envisioned great potential for the warplane and espoused the cause of advancing that potential can be considered an air power advocate. Many differe