iticisms at someone other than the Air Force. The main emphasis, though, was on glorifying SAC, bolstering its reputation, and seeing to its every need. Numerous magazine articles focused on the command’s vigilance and stressed the fact that American bombers could be launched at a moment’s notice. The coverage also extended to SAC’s commander, Curtis E. LeMay, making the two virtually synonymous, even to the point of anthropomorphizing LeMay’s gruff and tenacious reputation into the image of SAC. Perhaps the most notorious facet of the veneration of SAC, though, was the series of movies made specifically to showcase the command and its 276 Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.  File: --- call_people.pdf --- Page 288 --- needs. Collectively known as the “SAC trilogy” the movies illustrate the extent of the public fascination with America’s nuclear strike force. An integral part of the SAC story in this period involves the defense policies of the Eisenhower administration. Shortly after becoming president in 1953 Dwight Eisenhower, career Army officer and commander of Allied forces in Europe during World War n, instituted a defense policy known as New Look, based on the strategy of Massive Retaliation. Seeking economic stability and security for what he called the “long haul,” Eisenhower’s New Look policies stressed deterrence, focused on harnessing technological innovations, and relied on allied ground forces to supplement American air and sea forces in the event of war. Since America enjoyed a considerable advantage over the Soviet Union in strategic nuclear forces, and since the prospect of matching the Soviets in ground forces promised to be massive and costly, the New Look policies made strategic bombing the cornerstone of America’s containment strategy.2 That air power would become the foundation of Eisenhower’s defense policy is not really surprising. Despite his long and prominent career with the